

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Harmony.
R. G. WATKINS <SS 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 l-SZexi.'b Street, Sy d.ney *
—FOB— . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
| fl-SWMONT dc PIETE -
74 Castle reagh St. 74. Sydney
CAPITAL 5t200,000 ‘Phone Citys32s
ft- 29 Kino St., Newcastle .NSW - 71517 Swanstoh St. Mcld.Vk
40 Adelaide St.,Brubane.Q.lB6 CastlereagH St,fs9 Ceorge St. West. Sydney.
W'r
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete f). and I. Co. Ltd.”
ii
if
CHROMOL
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining ami smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.Ludowici&SonLtd
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
n
m
m
WM
22
n
n
m
i
C=2
M
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
Junket
HANSENS
Ba-w^
#*, INDIGESTION
ana DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
E
IS
u
HD
DBSLU
m
W
o
v
Note how artistic
it always is.
There is nothing else nearly so
effective, and as supplies are notv
abundant disappointment can be
avoided.
Write for samples
and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F.
M. Prince, Australasian manager),
Challis Mouse, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“ Referee" is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY,
e&
recognised
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
J.D.K.Z. GIN
(The White Heart
on the Black Bottle)
ORME, REIGWIN <£b CO. LTD. t SYDNEY Sol® Agents.
1
I
GYPSBOARD
Cover your interior walls and ceilings with a life-time guarantee of durability by using GYPSBOARD MONOLITHIC
PLASTER SHEETS in place of messy lath and plaster, wall-paper, and other inferior wall and ceiling materials. The
Monolithic Solidity of Gypsboard makes your rooms rot-proof, insect-proof and fire-retarding. Gypsboard can be sawn and
nailed like wood, and takes any paint. Write for Sample and Booklet to the Manufacturers—
_
Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd. ,115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
————— ___ 9 $22
fsdafsd
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
OP
Make NO mistake— -the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, is the most popular establishment in Sydney for Luncheons,
Afternoon Teas, Dinners and After-Theatre Suppers. Orchestral performances at all meals.
The Bulletin
VoL 40.—N0. 2069.
Thursday, October 9,1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying- influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of mam- of us women, and while perhaps a few—the more
stoical among ns—cam avoid worrying over i-ast and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in ‘preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need ol help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method Of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, bu t any good chemist will usuallv be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo.—Few women realise how all-impor-
tant a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to be kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil, and thoroughly massage the
scalp. Then mix a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm water, into which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Ilinse,
and dry by farming, or in the open air. if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the oil massage of the scalp
should be omitted. Stallax can be bought at
any chemist's in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages. It keeps indefinitely, and one package
is sufficient for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Failing Hair.—When the
hair falls unduly, or lias become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and udd to if one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoroughly, and leave for 30 minutes;
then. strain, and add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for 10 minutes, going over the entire head,
then dal) the mixture into the roots with a
soft sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the hair.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads. —A greasy,
oily skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores, is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, wliieir
may now be so quickly and effectively removed
with but little trouble. To remove blackheads
and the dull, dirty look of the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one stvmol tablet
in a glass of hot water. Allow the efferves-
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into the liquid and bathe the face. Leave on
the skin for a few minutes, then dry with a
towel, and the blackheads will come right off.
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with stymol and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
when it shrivels and (lies, shall be removed;
but, so many women fail' to fen Use this. TV
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin,
and preserve the complexion in all its pris-
tine beauty, mercolized wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for this purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and neck, rub it gently into the
skin, aiul leave for the night. In the morning
wash it oft’, using a good soap, such as
Pilenta, and all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any trace of greasiness and brace up
the skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can be made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of cleininite in four tablespoonfuls
of hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply
to the face with a soft sponge, or the tips of
the fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C.B.—Clynol berries will reduce your weight.
They are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They have also one great
advantage over other flesh-reducers: they re-
duce so gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZULA.—No, I am afraid I cannot tell you now
to prevent yourself from biting your nails.
You must exercise your Mill power.
CONSTANCE.—To' remove the yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
and apply it every night, rubbing it well into
the skin. Leave it on till morning: then wash
it off with -warm water and a good soap. (2)
To give a color to the cheeks, get a little col*
liandum and rub some on a leather. Apply this
to the cheeks. It; gives a perfectly natural
looking flush to the face, and is quite unde-
tectable. (.'!) To remove the blackheads, take
a stymol tablet and dissolve it in warm water.
When the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the face, allow to remain on for
a few minutes, then wipe off, and the black-
heads will disappear.
GEORGIE. —I am not surprised to hear that
the electrolysis treatments were not success-
ful. They seldom are Get an ounce of phe-
minol and a tube'of tekko paste. Use them in
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair,
SHEILA.—To restore your hair to its original
color, get two ounces of tnmmalito and mix it
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair every night or morning. In a couple of
weeks there will be no sign of the greyness.
Tammalite is not a dye, but. a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE.—To remove the roughness from your
skin,- use a lotion made by mixing eleminite
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
then bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning, [1
mm
i
m
m
%
in a
- —* J. ».
moment
s'
Simply raise this little
lever, immerse nib in
ink, lower lever and
the pen is filled. It’s
THE POCKET
SELF- FILLING
Watermaris(WFounlainPen
In this type of the World’s Best Fountain Pen is a self-filling device
which is far and away better than anything previously invented. Like
the other parts of this perfect pen, it is too simple to get out of order.
Watermans Ideals are made in three types : Of Stationers and
“ Pocket Self-Filling," “Safety,” and “Regular.” Jewellers eve>ywhere.
L. a. SLOAN, Ltd., €V>tTpZXl Corner London, England.
Australia : Harold I). Dixon, 106, Clarence Street. Sydney,
fsdfds
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
[Seven
Prixe Medals.
aWv\Vj
Works: Birmingham, England*
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes,
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic.
yj
HU
ON
Unlike Cough medicines “Eumenthol
Jtjjubes” do not interfere with the diges-
tion. On the contrary, they have a bene-
ficial effect, as their Antiseptic Properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Suited for old and young.
Sold everywhere in tins. 1/6.
The Red Page
A Book of Parliamentary Reform
Election time approaches, and the devi
who feels as if lie ipid eaten something tlia
disagreed with him is naturally hangin
about the door of the monastery, inquiriu
the terms of admission, and holding h:
stomach with both hands. The devil
bilious. In other words, there is talk abou
reforming the Constitution—not exactly b
abolishing the clause which prevents tli
cutting up of the more unwieldy States, eac
bigger than many an empire, into managt
able sections; nor exactly by obliterating th
clause which disqualifies five States out c
six as Federal capital sites; nor exactly b
consolidating the debts and the railways, bu
just reforming. In this connection' it i
worth while to read A Pica for Parliament
ary Government, by Edward Mellan
('George Allen and Unwin, London). I
is a handy little book which any politica
platitudinarian can carry in the tail pocke
of his coat.
Melland explains that Parliamentary con
trol by two parties is no old, respeetabl
affair, divinely sanctioned like the Dcealogm
nor hallowed by tradition like the vermi
form appendix, nor the outcome of necessity
like a load of bread. Just 205 years ag<
two parties formed in English politics be
cause one wanted a German king nainei
Guelph with a love of beer and ugly women
while the other wanted a Seots-French king
named Stuart with a love of wine and pretty
women. After the reason departed the habi
remained.
The custom whereby the Sovereign 01
Viceroy or Governor-General or State Excel
lency isn’t the leading member of the Min
istry is based on no principle at all. About
205 years ago the King left off being Chief
Minister and presiding at Cabinet Councils
because lie knew no English, and was too
stupid to learn. The idea of a Prime Min-
ister to whom other Ministers were respon-
sible, instead of a lot of detached Ministers
responsible to the head of the State, arosi
at the same time. Walpole said he was
3‘rime—dashed Prime, in fact—and no one
was strong enough to contradict him ; or ii
anyone was strong enough .Walpole pail
iim out of the public funds to leave oil
contradicting. The accounts weren’t audited
then,' or there would have been no Cabinet
Me created the Cabinet as a den of well-
paid conspirators who bluffed the monarch
and the Legislature at the same time. No
records of its meetings were preserved lest
the police should get on to them.
The idea that Ministers must sit in Par-
liament. which prevails in all the self-
governing British dominions, but is the
exact contrary of the principle followed in
the United States and Switzerland, really
nrose because Walpole was in Parliament
and dared not leave it, just as a lion-tamer
dare not take his eye off the animal. In
the time of George 11., Poultehcy, who
wasn’t in office, and was cross about it,
realised that the quarrel of the two
parties about the two kings was bound
to die out because one king was drinking
himself to death with cadged drinks and
had no children, while the other was par-
tially mad and had more children than he
knew of. Thinking this a pity he organised
the Opposition to go on opposing on general
principles. It was the device of a brilliantly
grumpy aristocrat, yet it is the cause of
yjohn Storey and Tudor to-day, and it was
for long the cause of J. Cook.
In Germany the Emperor—himself an
autocrat because the Constitution never
amounted to anything—appointed the Minis-
ters, who were outside Parliament and were
his creatures and office-boys.
In the United Suites tin- people create the
President, and lie creates the Ministers, who
are outside Parliament and can’t bo shifted
by it. The people control them through
the President.
In Switzerland the people create the
President and the Parliament. The Parlia-
ment elects the Ministers for a fixed term,
with the understanding that each shall
manage and be responsible for his own de-
partment; shall not be responsible for the
doings of his colleagues; shall not he bound
to agree with them if he doesn’t care to;
and shall have no right to feel hurt if Par-
liament rejects his measures. A Minister
resigns his seat on election, and is shut out,
another man being chosen to vote and talk.
In Australia the people elect the Parlia-
ment. The Parliament is divided into two
sections because in England tw T o parties dis-
agreed about two kings 205 years ago, which
is too ridiculous altogether. The caucus
creates the Ministers in secret, and they
spend nine-tenths of their time defending
each other and each other’s poems in the
House, in answering silly questions, in doing
the talking-machine act, and in jobbing for
their constituents whom they shouldn’t
possess except in the sense that the whole
country is the Minister’s constituency
Perhaps there is room for reform.
The Very Old Revolution
A perfectly new and very massive book
about Robespierre, Egalit<? and Co. (The
trench Revolution: A Study in Democracy,
by ISesta H. Webster), is an unexpected
rincl in these days when six or eight, or it
may be IC, new revolutions have just finished
and more remain unfinished—in Russia,
Hungary, Mexico; the little affair of the
bard at r lume; possibly one or two in
China, where they seem chronic, to say
nothing of Direct Action and sundries. The
writer devotes 500 pages of painstaking en-
deavor to a period of five vears, so the pro-
gress of the tale is not very fast. Yet it
isn’t quite bogged by its own immensity, like
Ivingslake’s story of the Crimean War. in
which even the charge of the Eight Brigade
is so ballasted with words that a concise
writer could race it on foot with a peram-
bulator and Avin easily.
The great purpose of the book is to paint
Louis XVI. as a really capable man and a
grodt intelligent reformer. He fell a victim
to untoward circumstances, to a most in-
credible and purposeless mass of enemies,
and to his otvn fine qualities. The State
was really not so very bad, and the Church
was useful and respectable, and the nobility,
barring the unspeakable Duke of Orleans
and his unspeakable friends, were very
good. The people iyere generally happy and
well off, the famine being only an episode,
and not so much that as an artificial calamity
created by Orleans to discredit Louis and
Marie Antoinette and pave his own way to
the throne. There were never any popular
risings against the sainted pair—only small,
hired risings, with Orleans as paymaster. In
fact, an infuriated Parisian mob of those
days consisted of several dozen ruffians hired
by Orleans who dragged several hundred
peaceful citizens along with them to make
a mob, and, while holding these unwilling
accomplices with one hand, pulled down Bas-
tilles with the other. Hardly anything hap-
pened as has been supposed, for history
has been for at least 130 years either basely
deceived or in a conspiracy against Louis
the Great Eater. It is difficult to reconcile
the alleged stupendous figure of the murky
Orleans, whose conspiracy to snatch the
throne ramified all over Europe, with the
shiftless being who was citizen Egalite,
M.P., for two or three years, and in that
capacity lost his party, his liberty and then
his head. And it is difficult to understand
how a king of so many striking (polities as
Orleans’s relative drifted to his doom with-
out even throwing a dishcloth or an objur-
gation at his enemies, and let his country
drift also, unless it is held that he was one
of these foredoomed beings who can’t even
go to church without the holy edifice falling
on them. All that can be said is that his
predecessor Louis XI. faced infinitely greater
troubles and didn’t allow holy edifices to
fall on him: if he had no other ammuni-
tion he would throw cathedrals at his oppo-
nents.
According to Mrs. Webster’s reading, the
revolutionary leaders hadn’t a redeeming
feature among them; —neither patriotism,
courage, eloquence, foresight, hindsight, good
looks, cleanliness, table manners, scaffold
manners, straight legs, tidy clothes, educa-
tion nor sobriety. Even their armies were
a fraud. Valmy wasn’t a victory. The
Duke of Brunswick’s retreat was fought
with money prigged out of the coffers of the
king, whose alleged bankrupt condition seems
to have been a mistake, and Dartton’s im-
passioned appeals on that occasion were the
words of a vain man thundering through
his hat. He was Ajax defying the lightning
after the lightning had been squared.
All this throwing of road-metal at ghosts
seems a waste of endeavor, still the book
makes interesting reading. The writer has
great descriptive power when she really
spreads herself. Marat has been ugly enough
in many books, but if a copy of this falls
into bis hands he may be surprised at his
own deformity.
(Constable, London.)
Belgium and the Congo
From Belgium Consul, Henri Segaert:—
I say thank you for the kind treatment
my book “Un Terme au Congo Beige” received
at the hands of the Red Page reviewer. May I,
however,, show my surprise at the mention of Mr.
Morel’s name, and more so at his being brought
forth as a possible authority on . Congo affairs?
Mr. E. D. Morel (Deville his true name), born
in Paris of a French father and an English mother,
began his loud political career by trying to embroil
France and England over the South African War
and the Morocco crisis, and he ended it with a six
months’ sentence for attempting to pass treasonable
literature in Switzerland during the Great War.
The German press acclaimed him then as a friend :
and no wonder, for Morel was an admirer of the
notorious Karl Peters, who used to hang his mis-
tresses in German Africa, whilst he also ignored the
extermination of the Ilerreros. If the reviewer of
my book still wonders whether Mr. Morel’s tales
about the Congo were true, it might enlighten him
to know that Morel got his cue from Sir Roger
Casement, British Consul in the Congo Free State
some 15 years ago, who, as the friend of Germany,
was doing his best to secure to her the coveted
teiritories of the Congo—and what better way than
to discredit the other side?
When it comes to passing judgment on tfie ad-
ministration of the Congo, I feel in more congenial
company with Mr. Jordan, F.R.G.S., and his wife
and with Sir Alfred Sharpe, all of them world!
respected authorities. These travellers bear me out
The management of the Belgian Congo can stand
honest investigation. .We Belgians have done our
best to develop our eolony on eommonsense and
common-humanitarian lines, no better and no worse
than our English and French neighbors.
. As . f 0 1: bei,1 S allowed to see the inside, that
is simply ludicrous. As Chief Magistrate, with
full power of inquiry and investigation over the
whole colony I had during two -year* more
pportumties to take notes than any other official.no
matter of what "standing.
The Newspaper
Biologist” (B. 14/S/'l9l affirms that the
modern newspaper-reading public desires
friends Ul -inff r° f what it: gains from
to ';i a “ d fl ac( l u «“tances; and he proceeds
#. the newspapers for not printing
long articles and matter less frothy. In
so 1 ™ ° i fart i, the newspapers are not nearly
so reprehensible as he imagines. They recoe-
nise a certain demand, and they set out
i t L Sf ' tl m :V It Obviously it is the taste of
.J? e , jpublic that creates the newspaper; and
™ ls , to be Placed anywhere, it
must be with that taste. The newspaper
is a business concern; and if it speculates
at length upon the vicissitude of nags and
ladies rags, it is because those subjects
/tS readers’ minds. At this point
Biologist, deploring the taste of the ordi-
naiy reading-public, blames eompulsorv
schooling for the depravity. If reading were
simply the pastime of those naturally drawn
n?n,nL S r'l S ’ our newspapers would be
models of literary rectitude. But he is
wiong: there would be no newspapers at all
The newspaper is a growth from, and an
expression of. compulsory or uniform school-
tm-iim A s ' a r’ 35 . ,: . h1s Jungle of cheap
literature evil? I rejoice when I see a
reader devouring Charles Garvice; for I
know that presently he, or his son. will
devoui .Tolin Galsworthy. It is inevitable
a Sundance is to selection!
It liaidly matters what people read- the
fact of real importance is. that they are
reading. If we want to cultivate a love
(Continued on page 24.)


'uce
Wraps of Elegance and Distinction.
Jxll2B
Jx 6008
JXII2O
o' V: \\o
o,»
tr
a *» v
<£(W°
010
o*9© ft
0
2 o<y
*r
Q
0
0
\
0
C' ; .:
ML
//A.
'•III. V
1
<2)
3^
w-'Sw’
s
=lll
S 3!
Jx1122
JXII3O
Jx1125
Wraps that set the Standard for Race,
Reception or General Wear —Very Special Value,
JXll2B.— Race Coat of Assam Silk,
cut with latest wing sleeves; collar,
cuffs, and wide empiecement at foot
of black taffeta £5/19/6
JXll2s.— Stylish Cape of Assam Silk,
latest design,' drawn from all-round
yoke, and effectively finished at foot
with alternate rows of black taffeta
silk and mastic silk braid, stole col-
lar of black taffeta silk.. £6/12/6
JXII3O. —Handsome Race or Motor-
ing Coat of Assam Silk, having
panel effect at back and outlined at
foot, back and front with wide bands
of nigger or bottle taffeta silk. Wide
stole collar is also of the contrasting
silk £6/12/6
JXll2o.—Exclusive Model Coat of
Assam Silk, designed with long panel
revers of navy taffeta silk and rows
of mastic silk braid with drop but-
tons £6/6/-
JXll22.—Exquisite Model Coat of
Nigger Taffeta Silk, featuring the
new wing sleeve. The shawl collar
and deep cuffs are of mastic silk,
outlined silk braid. Also in black
with grey and mole with mastic—
£B/18/6
T X6OOS.—Military Race Cape of Fine
Assam Silk, smartly designed with
tiers of tucks from shoulder, and
having protective stole collar—
£4/19/6
Similar style (600/7), without tucks and
having smart button-over collar—
-59/6
We Pay Carriage to all
Parts of New South Wales,
and to the nearest Port
in other States.
Write for a copy of the
Beautifully Illustrated
Fashion Catalogue.
Post Free.
ANTHONY HORDERN £ SONS.UE
St'UVE
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
605 B
kfi
Id
ric
i e
Sydney.
Hm,


At the Races KODAK.
There are wonderful oppor-
tunities on the Racecourse
for making Kodak pictures
of lifelong interest. Not
only can you make fine pictures of
the horses in various positions —
but splendid pictures of people
and events, too.
If you are interested in boating, cricket, tennis,
swimming, motoring—or any sport or pastime —make
Kodak pictures on every possible occasion.
You can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour. Thev cost from
40/- to £l4/17/6.
Ihe most popular camera in the world is the 3a Autographic
Kodak, for postcard pictures— ss x3£ inches. Price £6/2/6.
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior, for pictures 2/ x 41-
mches. Price 70/-
... , IC . l *o cket Autographic Kodak is always handy to carry—
h 11 . in a maa ’ s pocket or lady’s handbag—and is never in the way.
or pictures 2£ xlf inches—which can be readily enlarged. Price 40/-
all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating: Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Klizabeth's?" J*iu5 riS £ a ‘ l ° ; Th « Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45
ftiizauetn St., Hobait; Rutliven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville-
l optkill antl Photo Supplies Co., Perth; 100-111
Dixon St., Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale); “The Kodak Corner” corner
Dambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z. (Retail); 3 Pome Si
N.Z. (Wholesale); 148 Idchfleld St., Christchurch, N.Z. (Whole-
1 '
It
-
wm
mim ■ i
■Ai:
A
S ' ’< ! *X ■% '
t • & S ‘
* -
\ " , . ;
W|P <’ 3
if .
/
Wiv ■*
, ■ ' ’
v>
INSPIRED PLAYING BY
FAMOUS INSTRUMENTALISTS.
“His Master’s Voice’’ Records bring to
you in your own home the identical
masterly interpretations of the world’s
best music as played in the Concert
Halls of the great capitals by Kubelik,
Elman, Paderewski and other famous
instrumentalists.
These remarkable records embody the very latest
improvements in instrumental recording, and are by
far the most perfect reproductions of violin and
piano ever heard.
“Bis Master’s Voice
CELEBRITY RECORDS
meet the demands of music-lovers because they give the actual REPRODUCTION
—pure and mellow—not merely a harsh and vibrating imitation of it. Ask your
nearest dealer to play any Elman, Kubelik or Paderewski record, and you will
realise the superiority of “His Master’s Voice.”
Record catalogue and name of nearest accredited dealer on request. j
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
“GRAMOPHONE”
RegcL Trade-marl;.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"His Master’s Voire”
Regd. Trade-mark.
m,
4k
ms


In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
V*.
Protect Your Linen
HOUSEHOLD or PERSONAL
Against undesirable exchange or
loss BY MARKING WITH
CASHS
mm
NAMES'
Thoroughly Dependable. Any
Name Woven on Fine Cambric, in
fast color. Easily sewn on.
Prices: 12 doz. 4/6, 6 doz. 3/3, 3 doz. 2/3.
Obtainable from all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. &J. Cash Pty., Ltd.,
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, VIC.
Write for Style Book.
sazaagl
p
EEB
w s
Lofiqclot/uy
THE. WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
SAee&nqvi
sd
fsd
("IEORGE HOTEL,
St. Kildft, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Anstralia.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Hove permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years, also a wonderful
Cure for Rheumatism.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l/2/-. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
||£p§£? I
x ' '' #<Sst»srr« Atr
sltiilL ’
il
«gs
mm
a
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary..
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
9hirl*s*
MADE UN AUSTRALIA
Give pleasure to every
man, They are correct
in style, excellent in °
design, and impart the
com/ort that is so «•
necessary to se
content meat.
Alexander Steward Sons l! d
Bakers - Brisbane.
Procurable
(a“all*
up-l*o date
s*hirb
department
A'
*
%
i
OQv
>5*75 J * l -
-
fi>-
JX
r*
2*
I,
wer
is the moving prin-
ciple of things—it
is that mysterious
force which enables
one to act upon, to
move or influence,
both people and
events. . . .
To exercise this mystery of “ power ” you must be full of
nervous energy, alert and virile—in a word, you must be fit.
Fitness is a harmony of mind and body which accompanies a
state of constant general good health—good health comes with
regularity of habit . -
The Kruschen Habit keeps one fit as nothing else does—it
determines regularity of habit. With your system cleansed and
fortified by Kruschen Salts you will become a centre of health
and fitness, so of power —you will radiate your influence on all
around you. Get the habit—persevere with it—be “ fit ” !
f
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/3
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents :
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring.
The, Spring is here. The wattle gilds the
town;
The almonds in a rose and snowy mist
Stand in the gardens; on the empty hills
The grass is green; a blur of amethyst
Shows where the tinted irises are blowing.
And everything is budding and is growing
More lovely every day. But I have seen
This same sweet Spring, these trees, this
gold and green,
For twenty Springs and I am sick of it,
And of this quiet town, with streets that lie
Right-angled and so many chains apart;
Where people wake and work, and sleep and
die,
In dull content and sluggishness of heart.
How comes the Spring upon the frozen
> North,
Where, fresh and green, the grass creep#
through the snow?
How blue the lakes must be beneath a sky
As blue! How swift the antlered musk-
deer go,
Scenting the sea! The tall, slim trees are
budding,
Maple and birch, the while white clouds are
scudding
Before a racing wind. The soft snow drifts :
The burdened bough sighs murmuring and
lifts
Its arms in freedom for each nesting bird
That builds and sings among the Northern
pine
And joy and music in the sun is heard.
And life is sweet and heady as new wine.
And in the East? Veiled India, far Kash-
mir,
Where peach and almond bloom ’neath
I-limalay,
And tamarisk toss in the fragrant air?
Oh, magic of strange lands and names!
The way
I’ll take from Sringar towards Kashgar
In Turkestan, Yarkand and Samarkand,
Bokhara—so towards the Caspian land
Where dark-eyed girls, and rubies, emer-
alds are;
Where pearls are bartered in the great
bazaar:
Where come the brown-skinned travellers to
trade
In gauzes gold embroidered, ivory,
And incense, from the desert or the snow
Of mountain passes, where there lurks, may
be, *
Death at the dawn or when the moon is
low.
How comes the Spring to Egypt, where the
Nile,
New-flooded, spreads his silent coverlet
Of waters? As through all the centuries.
The age-old river sighs and softly frets
Upon the land, and o’er the rice-fiolds
spreading,
Carries the sound of drums at some Spring
wedding «
Within the mud-built town. Oh, leave them
there
Among the scattered palms, and let me fare
South through the sunny silence of the
sands
To Ivarnak, Luxor, Thebes ! They call 'to me.
Their names thrill through my heart, I
know not why;
But this I know, that I must go, must see.
Must answer them some Spring before I
die.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.
The Wind of Fate.
Ever about us, soon and late,
Blows the pitiless Wind of Fate.
A .youth he was of habit calm
Of cheerful mind and ordered ways,
Contented with the usual round
And happy in the passing days,
Till on a stari’ed and magic night
The Green Wind murmured of delight.
It led him to a wood, beflowered,
Where underneath the leafy trees,
Beside a coolly running stream,
The whole day long he lay at ease
With naught to do and never a care
But just to bathe in sun-sweet air.
Yet, in this lovely woodland place,
He was not suffered long to rest;
A scented wind, all crimson-hued,
Came rushing on him from the west.
It breathed of passionate romance,
Of gay reward and a lover’s chance.
It seemed as though he had drunk deep,
And all the world were set a-fire,
A torch to light him onward to
The flaming flower of his desire;
But while about the earth he went
He lost all peace and sweet content.
His youth he spent a-wandering.
Yet nothing found that he might keep,
When, seeking rest all wearily,
There came a whisper in his sleep.
A breeze that spoke of wealth untold
And all for him, if he were bold!
This Golden Wind he followed far
Across new oceans and strange lands
Till, at the last, he touched red gold,
To find it dross within his hands.
A chill wind mourned : “Your quest is vain
And only dreams in the dust remain.”
dreams, grey dust of the greying air,
Not even these are left to him.
They scatter at the-wind’s decree
Beyond the far hoi’izon dim;
Ah ! He shall dream those dreams no more
Upon that desolate, dark shore.
Ever about him, soon and late
Blows the pitiless Wind of Fate.
N.S.W.
MARJORIE QUINN.


mum
mu.
m
m
)\\m^
iimii 1
SL
mil
M
Amencan-Ahxolulely!
* LIBERTY
MAGNETO
The Original Bosch.
THE LIBERTY (Bosch) Magneto, the World’s Supreme
Ignition System, 'is an all-American product—made
in America by Americans with American capital. It has
all the efficiency of the original Bosch, and provides you
with 100% perfect ignition—power-giving, dependable,
economical. There’s a Liberty Magneto with special fittings
ready for yoiir car now. Sole distributors for N.S.W.:
GEORGE WILLS CO. LTD.,
YorK Street, Sydney.
7 (
i
v
l
i
%
J
&
r>7 k».
No matter what you sail—l6-footer or a yacht
—be sure that a tin or so of
“Rex ” Camp Pie
is packed in the locker. Then all hands can
count on getting a good substantial meal
wherever you may be. “Rex ’’ Camp Pie needs
no cooking. It is all good, wholesome meat
prepared in the most appetising way.
Keep a tin at home, also, for emergency
occasions. There’s nothing better.
Sold Everywhere
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Pro-
ducts, Curers of “Rex” Hams
and Bacon. JlO6B
FLIES !
And How to KILL THEM I
USE
INSECTIBANE
(Mind the Spelling).
No other powder possesses the qualities which make INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Though so deadly to insect life in all forms, INSECTIBANE may be
sprinkled freely about, as it is harmless to men and animals.
The high quality of INSECTIBANE is maintained and THE PRICE HAS
NOT BEEN RAISED.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Public Notice.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
The Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging Co. N.L.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend (the
34th) of ten per cent., or two shillings (25.)
per share, amounting to £15,000, has been declared
payable on the 22nd of October, 1919, and for this
purpose the Share Register will be closed from the
15th to the 22nd of October incclusive.
By Order of the Board,
JOHN T.ORD, Acting Manager.
Dated at Hobart this 19th day of September, 1919.
Hotels. &c.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
That which delights you to-
day you will find unchanged
to-morrow. The superb quality
and delectable flavor of
Thorne’s never vary.
Judge it for yourself.
THORNES
O.H.M. Incomparable WHISKY.
SPECIALS
Try Figaro Cigars and realise why it is they are
the chosen of the connoisseur. Mild and pleasing.
THE CIGAR THAT SATISFIES.
Martell’s dates from 1715, and its grand
reputation is based on perfect quality.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
Rich in higher ethers and of special merit
as a medicinal spirit.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.5.W... Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 40—No. 20G9.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1919.
Price 6d.
THE PILGRIMS’ PROGRESS.
HUGHES (to his offsidfer): “Well, we decided to go to the country, and it seems that we’ve got there.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year , to any
address in Australasia, post paid,.
Cheques, drafts , etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
2000 words, are specially acceptable ), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
wilt be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. iuill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that,
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tun Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit find interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others,
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1\ ) I Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.B.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway Buildings,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; 81oz. to 10oz., 2d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1919.
NEXT ELECTION.
Sundry State elections are approaching, and
they are likely to be the last under the old
regime, or the last before the bankruptcy,
however one likes to put it. There may be
no general foreseeing that the close of a
definite period is at hand, but that signifies
nothing. The French noblesse didn’t foresee
anything unusual in 1788, yet they were
a practically obliterated institution in 1791.
The Cabinet of giants in the Republic of
Genesis probably met as usual in Mesopo-
tamia the day before the Great Rain. When
the mytholopliodon pachynormus got out of
bed on the morning of the last day of the
palaeozoic period he hadn’t the ghost of
an idea that it was the last day and thar,
when the clock struck 12, the mezozoic age
would commence. Much the same unpre-
paredness characterised the day on which
Pompeii was when the sun rose and wasn’t
when it set. It also characterised the week
in 1914 which began with the world at peace
and ended with half the world at war. Great
changes are due in Australia. N. S. Wales,
as the State blessed with far the greatest
wealth in minerals, the greatest land revenue
(almost exactly as much as that of all its
neighbors put together), with twice as big a
proportion of well-watered country as the
average, and with more swelled head than all
the other States combined, might expect to
escape, but under the wonderful manage-
ment of Holman and the more amazing mad-
ness promised by John Storey it won’t.
The Ma State hasn’t been really sober
since the early sixties of last century, but
it became notably drunk about 1901, con-
spicuously drunk about 1905, and raving-
drunk shortly after the advent of Labor to
office in 1910. Like the people of 1892, the
last year of the land boom and the year
before that in which almost every Aus-
tralian bank closed up (many of them closed
for good and all), the boomsters hold that
there is no boom at all —only the natural
development of the country. Being madder
than the people of ’92, Holman and
Storey go further, and allege that the great
spending period hasn’t really commenced yet.
These people are just about to begin, like
the battered rake of 75 who proposes to turn
over a new leaf and really commence being
a swift young man about town. And the
country isn’t as well able to stand a shock
as it was in 1893. The aggregate debt of
N. S. Wales, the State with the best and
most developed resources, has doubled in
15 years—that is to say, the financial drink-
ing which used to be spread over four years
is npw compressed into one. That is the
habitual or peace drinking, which is sup-
posed to be necessary to keep up the
patient’s sinking constitution; war debt is
an accident and an extra. The remedy pro-
posed is to drink harder. But already the
public credit has sunk, which has helped to
double the interest bill in nine years; the
old reliable lender, John Bull, is now a
debtor himself, and when a bill comes due
he has little ready cash to renew it with,
except what he borrows himself from a very
hard creditor of his own; the possibilities of
the manufacture of paper money are ex-
hausted (in fact, the Federal authority has
to find real money to buy back a lot of the
notes already issued). The gold output is
fading; and there are other troubles. If, how-
ever, N. S. Wales were to have another 15
years like the last, its public works debt would
be about £250,000,000; its annual interest
bill would be £12,500,000 or more ; its railway
deficit, even after the charges were doubled
again, would be almost anything, for the new
dry-country lines built with dear money and
go-slow labor are a most unpromising lot
But it isn’t likely to have another 15 years
like the last. If it tries to do so the chances
are that about the tenth year the loan will
fail to float, and the works in progress will
stop, and many thousands of people who
never learned any trade except going-slow on
loan works will be unemployed, and the
banks, including the savings banks, will sus-
pend because their Government securities will
be no good, and in consequence wages will
stop. Then, probably, the shady, loafing,
voluble professional regenerators of society
will come out of their holes and tell the un-
employed that things will never be well with
them until they burn the Commonwealth
Bank and the G.P.O. For general safety the
Constitution will be indefinitely suspended, as
the municipal Constitution of Sydney was
suspended in 1853. Also, the public enter-
prises that are run at a heavy loss will be
suspended through inability to meet the loss,
and the more numerous they are the larger
will be the angry, helpless multitude turned
loose on society for anarchists to appeal to.
Almost every public enterprise that the
Holman party has created will be among
the unavoidable suspensions, for they weren’t
built to pay, only to buy votes; and as for
the extra works that are to happen if John
Storey gets into office, they are so wild and
often so needless that their shutting is likely
to be unanimous. Public works may be
called permanent, and may look permanent,
but nothing is permanent when the money
runs out if it costs more to keep it open
than to shut it up . The Pyramids survived
national.bankruptcies because they cost no-
thing for running expenses, but the railways
that Holman is building and planning in
Western N. S. Wales won’t. Everything
that doesn’t pay working expenses is a pen-
sioner, and the pension-list is cut in bad
times.
* * # •
Among the solid reasons why the people
in the eastern part of the State should use
their new voting power to repudiate Holman
and Storey and all their crowd and create
a new non-borrowing Government are the
following;—•
These people are pawning their more or less fertile
acres, and all they possess, and all their children
will possess, and their lives and their children’s
lives, to build railways with money borrowed at
rates which make profit impossible. When these
enterprises are closed up the loss on working ex-
penses will be saved, but the interest bill will last.
And railways are only an item in the long and ever-
increasing list of unpayable works.
Every new loan tends to reduce the value of any
Government securities that these people hold or
(what is the same thing) the value of their savings-
bank and other deposits, and the deposits of people
who owe them money, these being largely invested
in Government securities. In other words, they are
pulling down their life’s edifice on their own heads.
If the loan raised to build the line from Dustybone
to Itangaruin is the last straw that breaks the
public credit, it isn’t only that loan that goes broke,
but the whole mass of Government securities, for
they are all in the same heap. Somewhere or other
there is the last half-mile of line which is lying
in wait to wreck Australia, and it is probably between
Dustybone and Kangaruin.
They are doubling and trebling the cost of living.
The policy nowadays is to employ so many men on
loan works, including the railway from Dustybone
to Kangaruin, that there isn’t labor available for
productive work. Therefore Australia manufactures
a smaller and imports a larger proportion of the
things it needs than any other white man’s coun-
try. The men who supply the imported goods have
put up their prices from 100 to 400 per cent., and
as they are in far countries our anti-profiteering
laws don’t reach them. Then money for factories
is hard to raise when the Government is offering
such huge rates on loans to build the hopeless line
to Kangaruin.
They are preparing for themselves possibilities of
revolution, with murder, arson, riot and confisca-
tion. The policy of creating a large able-bodied
and rather arrogant class which lives on undertakings
which don’t support themselves but have to be
subsidised out of taxes and loans means that there
is a very large proportion of the population to be
turned adrift automatically when credit gives out.
If it doesn’t rise and smash things, then precedent
is amiss and history is a failure. When a man col-
lects carnivora which he can only feed on borrowed
meat, he is naturally eaten himself when his meat
credit gives out.
N. S. Wales —and it is not much unlike
every other State in Australia —requires to
start afresh with an anti-loan policy. It
may be difficult, but it is best to face the
trouble before the trouble grows so big as
to be overwhelming. N. S. Wales founded
the modern Parliamentary Labor party, and
Labor, to which Holman then belonged, and
to which Storey belongs now, pledged itself
to use no loan money save for works which
would pay full interest and a sinking fund.
The falling away of Julian, whom his-
torians for 1559 years have called “the
Apostate,” was nothing by comparison. On
their own showing the early Laborites knew
the right thing to do, and didn’t do it. There-
fore the safe thing is to reject every can-
didate who owes allegiance to either poli-
tical profligate, Holman or Storey. This
paper doesn’t know who will replace them.
But whoever it is couldn’t do worse things
for the country.
ANARCHY IN THE AIR.
Australia has been called “the greatest
flying country in the w r orld,” and is, no doubt,
in so far as climate is concerned. But in
other important respects it is the most con-
spicuous laggard of any white man’s country.
The official tendency is to treat the art as
something between steeplechasing, which has
a remote bearing on the defence question,
and charity matinees, which are useful to
wring money for public purposes out of a
reluctant populace. At the Defence Depart-
ment there is no apparent realisation that
in the aeroplane the late war has provided
an arm which, if not wielded efficiently by
us, will be used with dreadful effect against
us. A thousand airmen, skilled pilots and
mechanics, arrived in Australia by the
Kaisar-i-Hind. They cost up to £7OO phr
man to train; and practically every one of
them has been demobilised. There was talk
at about the time they returned of absorb-
ing 500 flying-men at Point Cook (Vic.) and
another 500 at Botany (N.S.W.) ; but since
then hundreds more have got back, only to be
hurriedly pushed into civilian life. A per-
manent soldier is to direct such flying as
the Army indulges in i not that he knows
anything about this highly-teclmical job, but
he had to be provided with a billet. On the
civilian side no one seems to appreciate that
flying, while a priceless boon to humanity
if it is exploited along proper lines, may also
be a great public danger. But, despite that
danger, the National Parliament has no
power to control flying, apart from its rela-
tion to defence. Recognising this, Acting
Prime Minister Watt tried the other day to
get the States to agree to uniform legislation
on the subject. Four of them agreed to his
proposals; N. S. Wales and Queensland stood
out, with the result that the scheme came
to nothing.
* * * »
One effect may be noted in the papers
almost any day of the week. In N. S. Wales
Premier Holman has been flying over Syd-
ney to give the Peace Loan an advertisement,
and various pilots have been “stunting” over
other cities with the same object. Major
Breakley, of Westralia, who had a brilliant
career in the R.A.F., has been flying over
Perth as a matter of business. He treats
the citizens to ten-minute “flips” at £5 each.
Among other manoeuvres executed in un-
favorable weather recently were a cart-wheel,
a tail-slide, several double loops and Immel-
man turns, and a 2000-feet spinning nose-
dive, from which the machine emerged 500
feet from the ground. A day or so later
Brearley came out of a 3000-feet spinning-
nose-dive 200 feet from the ground. Fairly
safe, possibly, when performed by an expert
at the top of his form. But best fliers go off,
just as pugs and steeplechase jockeys do;
they lose a shade of speed or nerve or judg-
ment, and disaster follows. That is why in
Europe and America the “aces” themselves
are required to come up periodically for
examination, or forfeit their tickets. And,
anyhow, what the Pickles and Brearley
class of fliers are doing now anyone is at
liberty to attempt, under existing legislative
conditions in Australia. That is to say, any
irresponsible, however incompetent, is in a
position to take up a ’plane and crash on a
crowded racecourse or in the heart of a city.
There will be plenty of machines available
in the open market for private buyers in a
few weeks’ time. The incoming Barambah
has £30,000 worth of Avros on board, the
Demosthenes is bringing a cargo of Sopwiths,
and there are others on the water. The
buyers will presumably get tuition, to begin
with, from returned pilots (though there is
no compulsion in the matter) ; but it is for
each individual pupil to decide as to when
he is sufficiently proficient to launch out on
his own. The road-hog was a considerable
public menace when motoring began, but
people could always avoid him by getting
off the road: to escape the air-hog it will be
necessary, on occasion, to get off the earth —
and well off it, too.
The first crash on a populous area will
do more than incinerate the pilot, his pas-
sengers and many others —and a city crash
is an ultimate certainty, assuming the pre-
sent state of affairs continues,, even though
every pilot who goes up in the coming six
months is another Vedrines. One of the
side-effects will be to horrify the public with
the whole business. Flying is regarded as
safe in the United Kingdom for the good
reason that, so far as is humanly possible, it
has been made safe. The Aero Club only
issues pilots’ certificates after exhaustive
tests, they have to be renewed from time to
time ; they are cancelled if the pilot flies
over a town in a perilous manner, or behaves
in any way that may endanger the lives of
others, and once gone it is practically im-
possible to regain a certificate. Here, with
no control whatever, except such as is exer-
cised (1) by the military, who only control
about | per cent, of possible pilots, and (2)
by an Aero Club without legal powers, the
national morale is as liable to be suddenly
destroyed as the casual citizen’s life. Yet
flying is a great prospective industry for
which no country has larger facilities than
Australia. Apart from the already-mentioned
favorable climatic conditions, it is rich in
the raw material out of which ’planes are
made. Queensland maple proved superior
during the war to hickory and other overseas
hardwoods; and our mountain-ash is equal
to the English article. With proper con-
servation there ought to be enough timber
to meet the Commonwealth’s needs for all
time ; and there is going to be no difficulty
about manufacturing the engines. But if
children were given Mills bombs to play
with at picnics these festivities would quickly
become unpopular; and if any private citi-
zen were allowed to buy 18-pounder field
guns or howitzers and fire them at will, the
enthusiasm of the electors for the Lithgow
works would wane. Discrimination is needed
where such articles are concerned; and con-
trol, and plenty of it. These are among the
many reasons why this paper urges a revi-
sion'of the official attitude towards aviation,
civil and military, before it is too late. It
is superfluous, at this time of day, to stress
the value of the flying man for defence pur-
poses. It seems madpess, in the circum-
stances, for the Defence Department to en-
courage the air-veterans of the A.F.C. and
R.A.F. to drift away into civilian billets
while men of little or no flying experience or
capacity are retained. But it is even more
urgent that the civilian side of the business
should be straightened up. In France, Bri-
tain and elsewhere the National Aero Clubs
entirely control flying under authority from
their Governments. Australia is in the odd
position that its National Government can
devolve no such power, having none itself.
But the States can, by special agreement;
and from every possible aspect it is rea-
sonable and advisable that they should do
so. The technical control of flying is a
matter for experts if ever there was one;
and for a single body with authority as wide
as the Commonwealth.
LOST JUICE.
Through a green valley, between high
mountains, a valley beautiful with scrub
and canefields, little orange groves, ploughed
land and flowers that burn in their own un-
consuming fife, the railroad goes to Babinda,
which has a State sugar-mill built to treat
38 tons per hour but working to 42. Last
year it milled 30,000 tons cane, and this
year’s crop is 150,000. Probably 20,000
tons will have to stand over; for this is
a mill, the only one in Queensland, with a
crop ahead of its power.
I had heard much of “lost juice” at
Babinda, and found the stories were only
more “stinking fish” as regards a State
activity. But another and less valuable
juice that no fuss is made about is lost—
molasses. It is the fashion in Queensland
to lose or burn it, just as it is the fashion
to do many silly things. It is fashionable
to rob the stomach to feed the eye by rob-
bing the meal to make white bread, and it
is the fashion to refine sugar to whiteness
at a cost of £6 per ton for about 1 per
cent, greater sweetening quality. While the
shipping strike was on and the North was
“starving,” Babinda mill sold 359 tons mill
whites to local merchants, and neither seller
nor drinker complained. Mill whites are
golden white in color, and are 98£ per cent,
strength compared with 99-J per cent, for
refined; and the difference isn’t worth the
cost except to the eye.
Taking 150,000 tons of cane as a basis
and 44 gallons of molasses to the ton, the
loss at a mill of Babinda capacity works out
at 075,000 gallons, or 4000 tons of molasses
every year. The Commonwealth buys for
its explosive works at Brisbane 1000 tons
a year from Babinda at about ss. a ton on
trucks—the rest runs to waste.
I remember the 12 months’ drought of
North-West Queensland in 1900-1. From
Townsville west to the black soil the nor-
thern railway carried of starving stock to
relief 1,100,000 sheep, 7173 horses, and 6602
cattle, with an attendant freight of 4397
tons fodder and 1,841,000 gallons of water.
The water was pumped from Winton bore
in storage at the railroad, thence
drawn along the line in tank waggons. The
runs built tanks up to 20,000 gallons capacity
on country that was still grassed. When
the grass was eaten out within three or
four miles of the tanks, these were removed
to new grass. Great is the adaptability of
the animal which must learn or starve —
even of such a stupid animal as the sheep!
On that' relief country they learned to run
to the tanks as soon as they heard the loco,
whistle.
• And because we know that such droughts
will be repeated the waste of molasses be-
comes criminal neglect. In storage the
material is practically without deterioration
or chemical change. It might not be prac-
ticable or profitable to store all that is now
wasted ; but enough for a drought insurance
could be stored, and the bulk of the tonnage
of it treated for all its products. Chemical
research in sugar manufacture has been so
perfected that not a great deal of practice
need be required to secure the last shilling’s
worth of result. It is peculiarly a State
work, just as the scientific fighting of
droughts in the greatly variant conditions of
all the Australian States is a job for the
Commonwealth. Drought-fighting is as
urgent a business of Australia as the lock-
ing of the lost rivers that would make
Central Australia as good as any of the
best parts of the Commonwealth. But the lock-
ing of the rivers has been merely an election
placard since Australia went into the
political business, and as water has suffered
30 years of unnecessary waste (although
condemnation is modified by the fact that
Australia has not enough men to go round,
and yet, with its handful of population,
mostly in the cities, has done marvellously
well in development), so the waste of
molasses and other foods will go on for 30
years before the real Australian grasps
boldly the nettle of his difficulties.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“A Voice Without.”
The objection to W. M. Hughes’s proposed
amendments of the Federal Constitution are
many and vociferous, but they all boil down
to the one thing—dislike of Hughes or dis-
trust of the party with which he is asso-
ciated. Advanced Labor will have nothing
to do with his scheme, “because it doesn’t
go far enough.” If the Tudor-Ryan party
can’t have the whole loaf, as represented by
the proposals that the people turned down
in 1911 and 1913. then it can see no other
course open to it than to starve. The school
of thought which is represented by Melbourne
Argus opposes the amendments allegedly be-
cause they may be used years hence in some
unspecified manner to the detriment of pro-
perty. Premier Holman, of N. S. Wales,
expresses the ordinary States Rights view
in the objection that if Hl'GHes gets the


powers he asks for now he may use them
later to do other things than attack profiteer-
ing: that is to say, he may interfere “with
early closing laws, butchers’ shops, small
debts recovery and the size of coal baskets.”
Ex-Premier Carruthers voiced the senti-
ments of the almost-extinct Geebung type
of politician recently in these words:
Perhaps an amendment of the Constitution would
not be necessary if the Federal Parliament did the
right thing and resolved to remove to Canberra.
If it would not do so, then I fail to see how anyone
can trust the Commonwealth in new functions.
It is the eternal old party row in operation
regardless of the interests of the country. If
the Federal Labor crowd broke all the rules of
the game and told the truth, it would admit
that its chief fear is that Hughes, getting
the limited powers he is after, may. really
do something useful. If the Opposition was
sure that the present Government, with
added powers, would curse the country with
more Bolshevism, and leave it in a worse
condition than before as regards profiteer-
ing. it would gladly give Hughes the chance
he is seeking. As the Opposition is not sure
on the point it clamors for the unattainable.
The arguments now used by Holman and the
Argus as spokesmen for the profiteers are as
old as conservatism: George Reid employed
every one of them in his first Anti-Sosh
campaign 12 years ago, and they were all
used freely during past Referendums. As
to Carbuthers —well he is just Carruthers.
Meanwhile, the real point at issue has little
or nothing to d.o with Hughes, who is here
to-day but to-morrow will be where Car-
buthers is now. It is a matter of a
National Parliament which,. the war being
over, plays a super’s part in the Common-
wealth drama. Hardly even that. It is
more “a noise heard off,” or “a voice with-
out.” It has the duty of organising the crush
revolution if it should break out, but it
hasn’t the power to legislate effectively
against the conditions which produce revolu-
tion. It raised and! equipped the A.1.F.; but
it can’t fulfil one -tenth of the obligations
which every National Government is under
to its soldiers when war ends. It has a mass
of anti-trust legislation on its statute-book,
and any trust with it grain of intelligence can
scout the Jot of it. It may be that Hughes
is not entirely sincere about wanting the
powers he claims. Tt may occur to him that
profiteering is not to be checked to any
great extent by legislation; that increased
prices have more to do with devaluated
money than anything else; and that life may
be not worth living for the Prime Minister
who begins the practice of drastic economy.
If so it would be good party business to put
on his opponents the onus of leaving the
National Parliament impotent. But such
manoeuvres should have no influence, on the
Australian who is sick of party tactics. All
that ought to concern this citizen is the fact
that the body which represents all Australia
is in a ridiculous and impossible position—
a state of affairs that should obviously be
rectified as soon as possible.
The Two Woodrows.
President Wilson’s voice has given out
with explaining to his countrymen that there
is nothing to fear from his League ot
Nations, and he has been ordered a rest.
Admittedly the hope of securing the League’s
acceptance in the U nited States lies in con-
vincing the people tliat it doesn t mix them
UP in, or commit them to, European en-
tanglements of any sort or bind them to sub-
mit to any authority except their own. JLhe
League authorises any member or members
to protect another against robbery, spoli-
ation, annexation or insult, but it doesn t
require them to do so, or even make them
promise to do so. In fact, it makes things
worse than they were, for m ante-League
davs nations did promise to stand by each
other, and sometimes kept their word; but
the Leaguers, so far as the U.S. idea goes,
aren’t even to give their word. As tor the
League binding the U.S. to disarm or claim-
ing the right to protect, say, a South
American member against wrong done by the
big North American member, that is not
even to be thought of. Wilson’s pose in
Europe was that the League would be a
wonderful and strenuous instrument for
good. In his own country his chance, of
avoiding ignominious defeat lies in assuring
the people that it means only one thing—
that the members take an oath to do as
they darned well please even more, darnedly
than before. The professional President who
went to Europe with an army corps of atten-
dants couldn’t claim a front place at the
Treaty Conference because of the sacrifices
his country had made in the war, for it
made a profit out of the war and lost
hardly anybody. He couldn’t well claim a
front place on the ground that other coun-
tries owed his country money, and thus pose
as the sordid bum-bailiff of the planet. But
lie got there as the great calm, beneficent
angel of the League of Nations idea —the
regenerator of the world and the new and
better Moses. In that capacity he put his
pallid paw into everything and “mussed up”
the affairs of every country on earth. The
spectacle of this person assuring his con-
stituents that the League means less than
nothing, and that he got all this pomp and
consideration by pretending that it meant
something else, is enough to madden the Old
World into throwing dead cats. Hundreds
of thousands of millions were wasted through
standing at arms while the League of Nations
debates hung up the Peace Treaty. The
world grew weary during that irritating de-
lay, and its wounds stiffened, and its ardor
became cold, and its new friendships chilled,
and the work it wanted so badly to do on
the farm at home was left undone, and in-
ternal dissensions arose and the Hun re-
covered confidence. And now the cause of
it all has one plea to advance in support of
his scrap of paper—that it is even a more
negligible scrap than anybody suspected.
The Five New Super-Taxes.
The N. S. Wales income super-tax was put
on in 1914 ostensibly to meet war expendi-
ture which the State didn’t have to pay, it
being a Federal affair, and which hadn’t
really started in any case. That super-tax
is still on, and the Government says the
amount (£510,000) isn’t required for war at
all, but to meet interest on new loans
(£642,000), a trouble incurred through
spending money on works which don’t pay
for themselves. So far as the railways are
concerned the situation is plain enough.
Between June, 1914, and June, 1919 (the
war super-tax period), the Holman Govern-
ment opened 851 miles 63 chains of new line
in 32 separate bits. Of these seven bits are
solvent. They represent 15 miles 75 chains,
and are practically all oddments about the
city. The other 736 miles consist of cripples,
pensioners or paupers, and the loss on them
about absorbs the proceeds of the super-tax.
Some of them might have had a chance to
pay if built with money raised at 3| per
cent., but the Holman Government couldn’t
wait for rates to go down. It had to get
votes, and it knew no such easy way of
getting them as buying them with public
loan money. Some of the lines out where
timber and minerals -and rain, and, in con-
sequence, people are scarce would have paid
if built out of revenue and with no debt
on them, but not otherwise. Some required
to be free of debt and have an endowment
as well, like hospitals. The railway posi-
tion is that rates have been put up per
cent., and the pew lines have swallowed the
proceeds, and in addition the deficit to be
made up out of taxes is about £230,000 more
than before the increases. It has swallowed
up the proceeds of the super-tax, and, con-
sidering the new spurt the Government is
putting on, it will, by 1921, be capable all
on its own of swallowing up a double or
treble super-tax. The Ministry of Holman,
the elocutionist, and Graiiame, the ex-book-
maker, can’t stop this sort of business.
Apart from it they know really nothing, and
would be as helpless as a parson commanding
a fleet, with the reservation that English
history mentions a parson who did command
a fleet very successfully. What amusement
the comparatively solvent folk in the east
and centre get out of the remote drought-
and-loan railways that are built far ahead
of possible population it is hard to say.
Most of them are no more likely even to
see them than they are likely to see the
President of China. They often don’t know
where these railways are. They get no glory
out of the business —that all goes to politi-
cians in Sydney. They hardly know what
the business is till a new tax is put on to
pay for it and till they are invited to admire
the wonderful enterprise of the men who did
it. The first quarter of the new financial
year shows loan expenditure at the rate of
about £7,000,000 a year, the money being
borrowed at a rate which no railway system
in the most fertile country on earth shows
itself capable of earning, and the deficit is
already so huge that the double super-tax
is fully in sight. It stands already at
£717,000, and is growing so fast that in a
few years five super-taxes won’t cover it.
Barrels of Gold in the Basement.
The sorrowful and true tale of the difficulty
which the working class experiences in
making ends meet was dragging its ser-
pentine way along in the Sydney court
when one Croet got rid of this remark: —
There existed and would continue to exist, unless
some drastic legislation was introduced, a system of
profiteering by which every increase in wages and
other adversity which an employer met with was
not overcome by a resort to the large reserves, but
by an immediate increase of prices to the unfor-
tunate public. This would have to stop.
Mr. Croft appeared for certain unions—
those bodies which never help the local
manufacturer in his struggle with foreign
colored or non-union products, but regard
the man who pays union wages and employs
white Australian workers as a bitter enemy*
and threaten him with confiscation. Mr.
Croft’s candid proposition is that wages
should be put up beyond the selling value of
the goods produced, and that the Australian
employer should make good the loss by using
up his large reserves, if they exist. When
they are used up the factories will presum-
ably close, the owners being beggared. The
big reserves are meantime hard to find. In
Britain the War Profits Tax —tax on profit-
eering arising out 'of the war —yielded
£285,000,000 last year, and £300,000,000 is
expected this year. But Australia had no big
profits arising out of the war to tax, for
this country wasn’t hiring out great fleets of
ships, not having any to hire out; nor -was
it taking army contracts, nor supplying
for lack of factories; nor was it selling food
at exorbitant prices. By taxing on much
the same scale as Britain, not War Profits,
but any kind of new profits made in war
time, and by putting the screw on the income-
tax and other sundries, it raised a little over
an extra £4,000,000. It was out with an axe
after the local war profiteer and found little
of him. If we had been the people who
were piling up reserves instead of the
people at whose cost they were being piled
up by other folk, the War-time Profits Tax
alone, on a oopulation basis, should have
been worth £30,000,000 a year; or, rather,
being a tax on all new profits, war or other-
wise, it should have been worth a great deal
more. In Britain few classes profiteered
harder than, the coal-mine owners. But in
Australia a Sydney list of yesterday con-
tained the usual 14 coal-mining stocks —the
good ones that are paying dividends. It
showed the amount paid on each share in
each co., and the present selling value. If
a man had bought one share in each co.
when it started he would have paid £32. The
selling value of th'' lot last week was £32
Bs. 4|d., so the market reckoned the value of
all the reserves piled up at about 3d. added
to each £. As for Victoria, the private coal
companies are in such a poor way that they
are hardly worth mentioning. The rich
trader we certainly can find in Australia, but
the rich Australian manufacturer —the man
who pays union wages—is hard to discover.
On the other hand, the number of people in
Britain with incomes of between £so,ooojand
£IOO.OOO per annum increased from 195 in
1912 to 392 in 1919, and those with over
£IOO,OOO per annum increased from 66 in
1912 to 148 in 1919. Japan would probably
show a still greater proportionate increase.
That suggests where the vast bulk of the
profiteering is from which Australia suffers.
And how Mr. Croft is going to reach the
keg in the foreign manufacturers’ basement
he doesn’t explain.
What is Discipline?
A at, Jellicoe remarked meaningly in
Maoriland last week that “no nation could
be expected to fight effectively unless its
service-men submitted themselves to dis-
cipline.” The context indicated that the
reference was to Australia, and moie par-
ticularly to the R.A.N. It raises a question
which will have to be settled shortly from
the Australian standpoint. Certain senior
officers of the “old English school” —men of
the type of Kitchener, Allenby and prob-
ably Jellicoe —read only one meaning into
the term discipline. That is to say, unques-
tioning and often wooden-headed obedience
of the “there’s not to reason why” variety ;
and the carrying out of an elaborate ritual
as regards gestures of deference directed at
the living, the dead and even certain manu-
factured articles. A common type of senior
officer still estimates those under him almost
entirely by the extent to which they live up
to this standard. And before the Great
War regiments and armies were so estimated.
The profuse and accurate saluters and the
neatly-dressed were “good soldiers”: the
casual in such matters were “a worthless
rabble.” That was why Kitchener refused
for a long time to use the Australians in
France (he was unwilling, originally, to use
them anywhere) ; and it was also why he
sent the “disciplined” Indians to Flanders,
where they proved a failure under shell-fire.
The best-disciplined of all the troops in the
old sense were the Gyppos—about the most
miserable fighters on record. The worst-
disciplined (again in the old sense) were the
Australians. It comes, then, to this: that
the capacity to absorb discipline of the
Wellingtonian brand is a matter of tem-
perament or race; and that it has no great
bearing on the subject’s fighting capacity.
The experience- of the past five years shows
that Australians do not absorb it. Would
it not be better, in the circumstances, if the
nation’s imported mentors, naval and mili-
tary, gave up attempting the impossible and
resigned themselves to a compromise? Bird-
wood was as popular as Allenby was dis-
liked because he had the sense to recognise,
from the jump, that the Digger is built
differently from the Tommy. Those in
charge of the R.A.N. continue the hopeless
struggle to run it on the assumption that
ranks and ratings from N. S. Wales and
Victoria will give best results if handled as
though they had been born and reared in
Yorkshire or Devon. Until a modification
of their attitude occurs the Australian Navy
will never become a national institution.
And the Permanent and Citizen forces will
be weakened for efficiency in proportion as
they get away from the A.I.F. standard and
discipline, and revert to the pre-war stand-
ard which is still the ideal of those who
have “forgotten nothing and learned nothing”
since 1914.
♦
Closer Settlement Seven Miles Apart.
Some remarks about the Western District of
N. S. Wales made by, or ascribed to,
an R.C. bishop roused Lands Minister Ash-
ford to say things that were better left un-
said. The reverend gentleman was under-
stood to allege that “80,000,000 acres of land
in the Western District are locked up in the
hands of syndicates.” This was the sort of
loose statement that amateurs in statistics
are always liable to make, and there was
nothing dreadful about it, though it might
be dreadfully meant. Whenever a bit of
soil, even one perch or rood in a suburb,
belongs to somebody or is leased by some-
body, it is “locked up.” A syndicate is
merely a body of men associated for a pur-
pose, and so is a trades union or a Christian
Brotherhood. There is no harm in syndi-
cates leasing 80,000,000 acres, if there are
enough syndicates so that the land is well
divided. But Minister Asiifokd reckoned
that he had to defend himself against the
“syndicate” charge, lie is, it seems, cutting-
mi the West among settlers in leasehold
“living areas” of 10,240 to 140,000 acres
each —say 50,000 acres as an average. That
doesn’t mean any sort of monopoly or big
capitalism. The real West is a land where
50,000-acre farms may mean the closest
settlement that is at present possible. This
is by reason of the lack of rainfall, lack of
coal, lack of anything dimly resembling
manufactures. But the Government which
Ashford represents is building railways in
this district, and building them with money
borrowed at 54 ner cent, or more. These
lines are reasonably expected to be a 74 per
cent, charge on posterity— per cent, to
pay the interest of which they won’t pay a
bean, and 2 per cent, or more to make up
the loss on bare working expenses. If they
are necessary, and they possibly are, the only
fair division would be for the builders to pay
for them in full out of revenue —in other
words, to shoulder the interest bill in advance
—and to leave posterity the inevitable working
loss as its share. Minister Ashford and
his friend's call the transaction in which
they are engaged enterprise, patriotism,
opening up of the country, and other pleasant
things that bring them votes. Another view
is that it is hypocrisy, unfaithful trustee-
ship and stealing on a big scale as bailee
of the children’s oatrimony. A guardian
who expects to die in the odor of sanctity
because he leaves his wards a great deal
poorer at the end of his guardianship than
at the beginning is not a pleasant object,
and that description applies to practically
every politician of the day. There is no
disguise about the process, in N. S. Wales,
anyhow. In 1910, when the present leader
took office, the public works of the State
paid full interest on their cost and about
£250,000 a year more. In the last four
years, largely through the “blewing” of
money on schemes that buy votes for the
moment, the average loss has been nearly
£BOO,OOO a year, and but for two big in-
creases in railway charges it would have
been £2,000,000 or thereabouts. That
doesn’t matter to this generation,, which is
paying its loss out of new loans, but it will
be plain sheol for a future one whose fathers
have used up the public credit. In 1884-5-6
(say 35 years ago) N. S. Wales was borrow-
ing at 34 per cent, to build Sydney suburban
railways and the main line to Brisbane.
Even a part of the section between Sydney
and Newcastle came out of that loan, These
were works in well-watered, thickly-peopled,
fertile, heavily-mineralised country, and had
a prospect of profit. Now it is borrowing
at nearly 6 per cent, to build out where it
expects to plant, families from five to 10
miles apart. 11 does this because it has
grown a race of legislators who haven t an
idea beyond the spending of loan money on
something or anything so that they may
create employment of the parasitic sort and
thus keep themselves in their jobs. They
invent loan works as a soldier politician in-
vents Avars —to make a splash in the only
job they knoAV.
If I Were Ryan.
Dear Bulletin, —There is a certain plea-
sure in considering w r hat one might do if
one were someone else. Now, if I were
Premier Ryan, of Queensland •
(1) I would conceal the fact that one of my
names is Joseph.
(2) I wouldn’t be too free with the combustible
Archbishop Mannix. He has no lasting responsibili-
ties here. His national headquarters are in Ireland.
His official headquarters are in Italy. Just when
he has digged a ditch he may go away and be
Cardinal-Bishop of Greenland and leave other people
in the hole.
(3) Before g<oing into Federal politics I would
try my hand at the division of Queensland into thiee
States, for which it is always quite ready. To
prevent delay and ill-feeling I would propose that
the railways and the existing debts should be
managed by Commissions appointed by the three
States. This would make a sort of Commonwealth
inside a Commonwealth, with South Queensland
(which was me) as the predominant partner. The
Commissions arrangement might not last long, but
it would last till it broke up or till the Common-
wealth took over the whole business. Anyhow, it
should last long enough, and the decentralisation
Act'would be permanent.
(4) I would thus appear before an astonished
country as the only real decentraliser and the one
enlightened and progressive statesman. Separation
is bound to come, in any case, for Queensland is too
big and progressive and full of possibilities to be
long governed from a remote corner as at present.
It might come on worse terms, and someone else
might get the credit of it.
(5) Having thus supplied what is now Queens-
land with 18 Senators instead of six, and 16 or 17
Representatives in place of 10, 1 would be the man
who had shifted the balance of power from the Far
South to the tropics or the edge of them. Sam-
son shifting the back door of Gaza wouldn’t be iny
equal. I would be the first tropical patriot.
(6) I would go into Federal politics before the
Commonwealth within a Commonwealth had been
rent by internal quarrels through each State wanting
the same railway and the same loan. I would go
there with a party of 18 Senators and, say, 17"
Representatives, and Avould try to get the Northern
Territory made a State so as to raise the Northern
party to 24 Senators and 22 Representatives. With
this force behind me I would secure the Federal
capital for my own State and leave the effete
South in the lurch.
(7) Incidentally, I would wear my hair differently
and try to avoid obesity.
llyan lias the one great chance among State
Premiers—the chance to be unusual. Most
men are dreadfully usual. —Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollar.
4.—:
Congestion and a Ton of Spuds.
Queensland never has grown, and probably
never will grow, enough Avheat for home-
consumption. In normal times hundreds of
tons of flour arrive at every port annually
from the South, and during the recent ship-
ping hold-up things looked very unpromising,
especially in the North. In order to relieve
the position it became necessary to rail Avheat
and flour from N. S. Wales, the nearest point
of supply. Now, the N. S. Wales railway
tariff-book provides for specially low rates
for grain, flour and several other classes of
produce on the “up” journey; but as all
N. S. Wales journeys are supposed to lead
to Sydney these low rates apply only to
Sydney and (with limitations) to Newcastle,
whether the stuff comes from the North,
South or West. The Bananaland Govern-
ment treats Wallangarra—the border town—
as a port for Queensland produce; but N. S.
Wales repudiates any such foolishness, and
insists that Sydney shall be choked with
practically the whole of the State’s output.
If the object of the “up-journey” rates is to
encourage export, then the wheat and flour
are surely just as much exported via
Wallangarra as via Sydney Harbor. Export
is, however, not export to be encouraged
unless, no matter at what cost, Sydney gets
its bite. Hence it costs 16s. per ton to get
potatoes from Guyra to the border, a dis-
tance of 106 miles; but the same ton would
be hauled 887 miles to Sydney Harbor for
18s. sd. The result, of course, is to almost
compel consignments to Sydney for ship-
ment north. The result is a preponderance
of loading in one direction, and that is
plainly a bad railway proposition, especially
to a State which is admittedly hard pressed
at times to meet the demands upon its roll-
ing stock, and where the accommodation at
the terminal is very limited. Again, pig iron
from, say, Lithgow, exported to Queensland
via Sydney, gets a rebate of nearly 66 per
cent, off rail freight; but if it is exported
via Wallangarra it gets no rebate at all.
Perhaps it shouldn’t get it; perhaps there is
no justification for a rebate. If that is
so, and if the object is to encourage export
by the shortest route owing to the rate not
being payable, then why is not the same rule
applied to wheat, flour and other produce?
There is no logic in the business. The simple
fact is that railway administration has been
corrupted and the whole system has become
the obedient handmaiden of centralisation
and congestion. Instead of being, as it is
alleged to be, an instrument for the develop-
ment of the country, it is primarily an in-
strument for the aggrandisement and bloat-
ing of the capital; which means that, Avhile
the country producer is’robbed of some of
the fruits of his hard toil, the dweller in the
artificially-swollen city finds his cost of living
outrageously inflated. So nobody gains by
it all except -those who reap unearned in-
crement, and perhaps a feiv politicians, 1 and
a small army of agents and other parasites.


r
sps
u
fy
m
e
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IST THE DINING HADE, A EA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Eunclieon, Dinner or
Supper. Eatest Music.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
m
...
%
% <
“Beating the Books.”
“10-2-4” recalls an old friend:—
The statement of Mr. Grahame, N. S. Wales Min-
ister for Agriculture, that for many years he has won
£l5OO per annum on the turf, brings to mind the
almost forgotten case of Euas McGuff. Old race-
goers, and more particularly members of the Ring,
still speak of McGuff in terms of hatred and dread.
He, like Mr. Grahame, was a Wowser. But he
aimed to destroy, not beer, but betting; not, rum,
but racing.
Several Royal Commissions were instituted with
the object of dragging from him the details of his
scheme. In vain! To all questions he made the
sanm replies, viz., “No”; “I can’t remember”; “I
don’t' know, I’m sure”; and “That depends.” The
only subject on which he was at all explicit referred
to the origin of his scheme. He owned quite frankly
that it had been given him one day by a stranger
with red whiskers and cloth-topped boots; the inter-
view had occurred in the main street of a European
town whose name he could not bring to mind; and
the stranger had immediately afterwards vanished
for ever.
Put briefly it amounted to this, that anyone who
, followed certain directions could be sure of winning
£l5OO a year from the bookmakers. McGuff did
not want the money himself. He had an ambition
at once subtler and more altruistic. Racing and
betting were ravaging Ireland at the time. He
started a correspondence school in Dublin. His first
week’s advt. brought him 12 disciples. They won,
between them, £BOO at the Curragh the following
Saturday. At a small meeting in Co. Galway, a week
later, his 530 subscribers took from the Ring an
average amount of £B7 apiece. As an outcome of
these operations a Skibbereen penciller named Lou
Cohen flung himself from the highest peak of the
Giant’s Causeway, a ruined man. At the Belfast
Races McGuff’s 6000 correspondents won in two
days an aggregate of £540,000 —over £lOOO of it
being in ready cash. The remainder was never paid,
several of the biggest Hibernian bookies of the day
—amongst them Sol Leviticus himself —fleeing to
Australia.
McGuff followed. In the beginning, his advts.,
which appeared in one or two obscure sectarian
papers in Sydney, occasioned mirth. Then the
Methodist Church took him up. It was estimated
that on the day Paralytic won the Epsom (at 33 to
one) 64 elders and 186 sidesmen were on him to the
limit of the Ring’s capacity. The rest of the churched
quickly followed suit. An archbishop amassed suf-
ficient to finish a cathedral and build several smaller
edifices. On the day Prince Blinker won the Mel-
bourne Cup a spectacle was seen unique in the
annals of racing, as one of the dailies brightly put
it the next morning. The Ring was completely
empty. Not a bookmaker was to be found anywhere.
Hunting about the Paddock like famished hounds,
were thousands of clerics of all denominations, in
addition -to many laymen, all bearing the now well-
known envelopes issued by the McGuff Dead-Birds-by-
Post Co., Ltd. They had the stake-money, they had
the tips, but their prospective victims had flown.
That night representatives of the A.J.C., V.R.C. and
other great clubs met in conclave to discuss the
abandonment of racing. At the very moment at
which they took their seats (8.30 p.m.) Elias
McGuff met his death by the felon hand of an
ex-Leviathan of the Turf named Moss.
His secret did not perish with him. It is under-
stood to have merely got into the hands of men such
as Mr. Grahame, who, while strong on the villainy
of liquor, have no prejudices against betting. Heaven
grant, for the sake of sport, our odds-merchants and
their innocent wives and children, that the dangerous
old recipe may remain in its present safe keeping!
The Asiatic King who shines in fiction —
the Haroun al Rasciiid sort —never could
devise a smooth-working machine of justice
which would run by itself, but he did good
by prowling around at night or in disguise
looking for individual wrongs. When he
found one, or thought he had, his Majesty
blew up, made a law on the spot, beheaded
somebody, gave somebody’s goods to some-
body else, and went away leaving a great im-
pression behind him. Hughes is something
like that. He went off with a bang the
other day about a reported 2s. per week
rise in the rent of a returned soldier. Neither
Hughes nor the Federal or State crowds
which he represents seem to know how to
prevent the cost of living and house repairs
and land and imnorted goods and taxes and
rates going up, or to do anything serious
with the house famine. They can’t even pre-
vent the price of their own loans going up.
But when it was a matter of a returned
soldier being alleged to have his rent put
up 25., it was a simple proposition that could
be handled. The case suggested some bene-
volent potentate of Bagdad dispensing a sud-
den and impromptu act of justice on deficient
evidence by lantern light in a back street
and leaving the general rottenness of the
empire untouched. Still the potentate of
Bagdad hadn’t an election in view, so pre-
sumably his motives were above suspicion.
♦
“Gregorius” : Evidently “Motan” (B.
25/9/’l9) doeg not keep in close touch with
current medical publications; if he did lie
would know better than to say that Dr.
Brienl, of the Townsville Institute of tropi-,
cal medicine, keeps his knowledge to him-
self. The director’s contributions to both
periodicals and manuals are voluminous, and
hardly an up-to-date text-book on tropical
medicine or bacteriology can be picked up
without his name being found distributed
throughout the bibliographical index or given
as that of an authority for various treat-
ments. As an instance, the 1919 edition of
Muir and Ritchie’s “Manual of Bacteri-
ology” can be quoted. The reference list men-
tions 17 papers and monographs written by
Brienl during the 12 months preceding the
publication of the edition. To say that the
Institute has accomplished nothing is'simply
to argue oneself unfamiliar with it, more
especially with regard to the good work it
has accomplished in demonstrating, by an
exhaustive series of blood-pressure tests, that
white men can live and rear families in
North Queensland. As far as Brienl’s
nationality is concerned, he has never denied
that he is an Austrian; but nobody who
knew him could say that his sympathies were
with Germany during the war. If any tes-
timony on this point is needed, the hundreds
of Light Horsemen and New Guinea con-
tingenters who contracted malignant malaria
and were subsequently restored to health
by Brienl can supply it.
+ :
The poverty and desolation of Broken Hill
having been put before Chief Secretary
Fuller, he promised to resume work on the
Condobolin-Barrier railway, “in order to
absorb some of the unemployed.” He didn’t
undertake this because the railway is wanted,
though it may be; or because it has a ghost
of a chance of paying if built with loan
money at the present fearful prices, or is
likely to be anything but a perpetual burden
on posterity; or because a time when the
town at the other end of the venture is m
extra low water makes for special urgency.
He didn’t even profess that the relief would
be permanent; the interest bill may turn up
every six months-for 10,000 years, but the
aid supplied to the unemployed will last
only a few months. On the other hand there
is an imperative demand in N. S. Wales for
another dozen or two dozen big woollen mills.
THE DISAPPEARING GARMENT.
“A delegation of British cotton manufacturers, representing more than half of the world’s cotton
industry, has arrived in New York to confer with American growers and manufacturers regarding an
adjustment of the conditions arising out of the war.”
AUSTRALIA: “Hullo! Are they after another cut? Well, thank goodness, I can still
grow a few gum-leaves!”
which would take less to build, and would
Avith any luck go on practically for ever,
and would pay steady wages, and wouldn’t
require to be subsidised by posterity, and
would reduce the cost of living by cutting
out a foreign profiteer. The raw material
is handy and every human in the Common-
wealth is a probable customer, whereas only
a handful want to travel from Condobolin to
Broken Hill, especially as the latter town
will die with its mines. If Ministers, as in
some countries, could be appointed on their
merits without going through the unattractive
drudgery of a Parliamentary career on party
lines, some bright Premier might offer
Vicars, the man who makes cloth at Mar-
rickville, a portfolio, and let him try his
hand at the unemployed problem in a line of
which he is a master with a trifle of Govern-
ment capital to work on. He couldn’t do
much without a portfolio, for then he would
be undei’. the orders of some chronic railway-
builder or land-dealer, and a man who has
all that cloth to make hasn’t time for the
circuitous routine of selection and elocution
and prevarication and oration, which often
lead merely to the job of being a party hack.
“Wig”: A new terror would be added to
the lawyer’s life if the suggestion of McLaeh-
lan of S.A. Assembly were accepted. He
wanted the Government to inquire into the
loyalty of “those legal gentlemen who assisted
F. H. Snow to avoid paying the penalty of
his disloyalty.” Naturally. Attorney-General
Harwell declined to do anything of the sort.
He explained that the defenders had simply
done their duty as members of the profes-
sion, and nobody, in or out of Parliament,
could have any doubt of their loyalty.” On
the lines suggested by McLachlan, anybody
defending a murderer might be liable, after
the conviction, to be called to book as some
kind of accessory.
The Peake Government is trying to change
the unfinished Glenelg (S.A.) breakwater
contract into one with the same contractors.
Stone and Siddeley, for a concrete coal wharf
at Port Adelaide for a similar amount,
£lOO,OOO or over. A term of the arrange-
ment is discontinuance of a lawsuit for enor-
mous damages pending by S. and S. against
the Government.
Chief Secretary Fuller (N.S.W.) announ-
ced last week that his Department had three
fish-shops open and 14 more in prospect.
State fish, said G.F., was from 75 to 150 per
cent, cheaper than the private shop-article,
so that where Demetrius the Greek charges
£1 the Department, apparently, either charges
ss. or else gives the fish for nothing and
10s. along with it. Even if the crowd in
office doesn’t know simple finance it should
be able to talk it. .
Even at house-provision for returned sol-
diers, supposed to be one of its specialties,
the Australian Government is no record-
breaker. A few days ago it reported pro-
gress in the Senate: Houses applied for,
7084; houses under construction, 79; house
finished, 1 (one). N. S. Wales was the
swift-footed community that finished the
house.
“B.”: When Gilruth was blooming at Dar-
win he bluffed the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to get him a boat, and the result was
the John Forrest. The craft took nearly
12 months to travel from Sydney to
Darwin, and when it arrived the rejoicings
were almost royal. Then Gilruth faded
away and the John Forrest remained as a
sort of floating memorial. Too big in
draught for the tidal rivers, engines too
strong for the hull, it steers like a crab, and
Davy Jones is due for a job any old day,
unless it falls to pieces. Meanwhile the
teredo is lunching on it, though the hull,
sheathed previously with cypress pine, is to
be coppered—some day.
“Globetrotter”: Saw a parade of returned
soldiers up Fifth Avenue, New York, to-day,
and am a vehement opponent now of the idea
that Uncle Sam’s country is Anglo-Saxon.
It’s a slander on the Yankees. They are not
Anglo-Saxons. They are Americans, a new
type made up of many races. No longer do
I believe in the idea that there is any
kinship between the British and the Ameri-
cans. The old British blood has been diluted
down till it has almost disappeared. I read
an 'official statement that 9,000,000 out
of 114,000,000 of population can neither read
nor write. New York has a population of
5.000,000, of whom 1,000.000 are Jews,
250,000 are niggers and 2,000,000 are Ger-
mans. No wonder the New Yorkers lack
manners. They are the rudest people on
earth.
Lloyd George met the British railway
strikers with a definite offer that, instead of
an average wage of 275. llld. per week
(which meant a minimum of about 12s. 6d.)
as before the war, there shall be an irre-
ducible minimum of 40s. (which probably
means an average of 555.) with big bonuses
until prices readjust themselves. The settle-
ment will doubtless be on some such lines.
There ends the whole doctrine of hunger and
cheap labor on which Freetrade was built.
It lasted less than one man’s lifetime, and
was buried the other day with Pulsford.
Ex-Australian Harry Holland has been
elected chairman of Labor’s half-dozen in
Maoriland Parliament. The vote was equally
split between Holland and McCombs; and
they drew straws for it.
“R.S.V.P.” : The Professorial Board of Mel-
bourne University is now more of a maiden
aunt than ever in its fixed determination to
keep Willie Undergrad nicely disciplined.
Henceforth none of the students’ societies are
to be allowed to invite any “outside” intel-
lectual person to lecture at the “shop” with-
out first asking for permission, the name of
the lecturer and his subject having to be dis-
closed for consideration.
One of the mysteries of Melbourne is the
Board of Shirks’ persistent habit of restrict-
ing the supply of water for irrigation pur-
poses while encouraging its use as a house-
hold luxury. Yet samples recently taken
show its unfitness for drinking, and its super-
excellence as a medium for growing cabbages,
etc., inasmuch as the samples contained from
5 to 8 per cent, of solids —mostly decayed
vegetable matter.
“Listen”: When lying at Farewell Jetty,
Portsmouth, all set for the return to Dinkum
Land, 11.M.A.5. Australia was open for pub-
lic inspection. A London girl was greatly
interested in the explanations of a Bill jack,
until she noticed a section of minesweepers
putting to sea. “Oh, look at those nice
little ships,” she cried, “and all the seagulls
with them.” “Yes, they’re trawlers,” says
the A.B. “The gulls follow them to pick up
scraps of food thrown overboard.” “But why
don’t they follow the small green one?” asked
Gerty. “No hope,” replied Billjack—“that’s
a Scotch trawler.”
“Plonko”: Would like to argue with
“Kello” (B. 25/9/Y9) as to the alleged
practice of changing Lewis-gun barrels in
action. I spent three years humping a
Lewis-gun in France, and in all the stunts I
was in, including the Bellecourt Tunnel (not
Bullecourt), I never saw a barrel changed
in action. The radiator Was there to keep
the gun cool, and if the barrel was too hot
to fire the rest of the barrel group would be
too hot to handle. Have never seen a gun
put out of action through any fault of the
barrel, and the latter will still spit lead
after firing 20,000 rounds. Anyhow, when
did the A.I.F. start supplying the Yanks
with spare parts? Jn the Bellecourt stunt
there was no time to locate ordnance.
“Dido”: I witnessed a catastrophe in Eliz-
abeth-street, Melbourne, the other afternoon.
A brewer’s carter, starting to take a two-
dozen basket of lager from the top of his
load in front of a grocery, slipped, and down
fell the precious burden on the pavement.
Every bottle was smashed, and a tidal wave
of beer found a lodgment in the gutter.
Never have I seen a crowd come together
with such promptitude; never have I seen
commiseration and regret so profoundly ex-
pressed in the faces of a popular gathering.
All gazed with mournful eyes upon the
ruin, and then, precisely at the same
moment, and with marvellous unanimity,
the crowd licked its lips. The man at my
elbow spoke solemnly, meaning no cheap
irreverence I’ll swear: “And yet,” said he,
“they say there is a God!”
“5.N.0.” explains:—
In “The Doctor’s Bit” (B. 4/9/T9) mention is
made of the “delousers” at Le Havre. The type in
use there was popularly believed to be the inven-
tion of a German prisoner of war. Whether this
is true Ido not know. All the base camps had their
cleansing arrangements on the same system; but
the best I came across was in the Canadian camp,
where we spent a few days after taking a mob
of horses down from Belgium. About 200 men are
treated in one batch. Passing a window I received
a small bag for valuables and a wooden tag tied
with a string to hang from my neck, both bag
and tag bearing the same number. I entered the
waiting-room, and having found a seat bearing my
number, I sat down to wait. Took out all my cash,
pipe and fountain-pen, placed them in the small
bag and tied it up. Gave in the bag at a window
and proceeded to the dressing-room, found my num-
ber on a seat and an apparatus like a large coat-
hanger over my head. Undressed and , suspended
hat, tunic and breeches on the hanger, throw-
ing underclothes in a small room opposite, and
with a mob arrayed in blue flannel dressing-gowns
sat down. Attendants with poles with boat-
hooks drew the coat-hangers with their clothes away
to the fumigating room. We then discarded our
dressing-gowns, and carrying boots and leggings
strolled past a doctor to satisfy him that we had
no skin diseases. Just past the doctor I saw a
pigeon-hole with my number on it. I dumped the
boots and leggings there. Then we filed into a
large room fitted with numerous showers. The
washing done, we filed into the dressing-room, grab-
bing boots and leggings en route, and making for
the seats with our numbers on them found a clean
towel and underclothes waiting. Then a big French-
Canadian strolled along with cigarettes and another
of the same tribe followed up with matches. The
smokes finished, the porters opened the doors, and
rushed the coat-hangers along the wires, our clothes
being absolutely free from livestock. Got dressed,
recovered our valuables and filed out of the building
to look for dinner.


Would You Set a
NO —
Boy to Fig'ht a
lt wouldn’t be fair.
Grown
Man ?
An*! yet some people expect the youthful Australian
■lron and Steel Industry to compete on even terms
against the giant enterprises of Europe and America.
When the Australian Industry is full-grown it will
be able to stand up against the competition of the
world —on equal terms, or anything like equal terms,
it fears no competitor.
But at present the terms are not equal. The Aus-
tralian Industry is young and is heavily handicapped
—is paying high wages—heavy transport charges—
high prices for materials—and it has only a com*
paratively small output.
The Australian Iron and Steel Industry wants to
be allowed to wrirk its hardest for the people and
for the future of Australia.
It wants to help build Australia into a great nation
—to make Australia self-reliant and self-supporting
—to make Australia safe from attack from - without
—to make plenty of employment for Australian
citizens.
EVER.Y ENGINEER IN AUSTRALIA
is asked to assist to build up this Industry by using nothing but
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND
which has been proved equal to that made in any part of the world.
WILL YOU HELP?
Australian Steel for Australian WorKshops.
STEEL
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australian politicians have been fairly ir-
relevant at times, but when Senator Bakhap,
of Tasmania, broke into the Peace Treaty
debate with a proposal that the Prince of
Wales should marry an Indian girl and have
Eurasian children, he established himself as
the record flier off the handle. What the
idea of Eurasian royal children had to do
with the Peace Treaty is unknown to men
or devils.
“Exile”: A Yankee telegraph man assured
me in New York that for months while
Hughes was in England the Pacific cable was
so overloaded with Australian Government
messages that it practically broke down.
Ordinary cablegrams took three to 10 days on
their journey from Bamlield, Canada, to
Sydney instead of one day. Watt, he said,
cabled Hughes many thousands of words
every day, and Hughes replied at great
length telling Watt what to do. As Govern-
ment telegrams take precedence, the cable
became so congested that private messages
were stacked up on the floor in a queue to
wait their turn. That Y"ank said he had
heard some kindly prayers offered up in his
time in the service, but those addressed to
our Father which art in Heaven on behalf of
little Billy and his locum tenens were warm
enough to melt a heart of granite.
With the political football in front of it,
the Farmers’ Union hasn’t sense enough to
kick it towards the goal. The Victorian
branch conferred in Melbourne during
Show Week, and being invited to put protec-
tion to Australian industries on its political
platform, carefully shelved the question.
Then it squelched a proposal for elective
Ministries, characterised the Initiative
Referendum as socialistic, and laughed at
the idea of compulsory voting. Almost be-
fore it has come to be a force ,t'o be
reckoned with the organised farmers’ vote
is being carefully manipulated by a gang that
causes Hayseed to be fervently damned by
thousands/of good Australians.
The N. S. Wales Board of Trade has de-
clared the “minimum wage”—that is, the
amount necessary to keep a man. his wife
and two children in reasonable comfort —
to be £8 17s. tid. per week; and, under the
muddled law as it stands, practically every
wages man in the State working under a
State award is entitled henceforward to
draw an extra 17s. 6d. per week, the last
“minimum wage” having been £3. It is a
tangled business altogether. Two months
ago, for example, wages were fixed in an in-
dustry, a rise being given on the ground of
an advance in the cost of living. Now, under
the law, notwithstanding that that advance
was allowed for, a further rise has to be
made to cover the same advance. Practically
three separate bodies are butting in on the
wages question in N. S. Wales —the Board
of Trade, which fixes the minimum wage,
which governs State awards; State Arbitra-
tion Courts, which also take rises in the cost
of living into account and fix wages accord-
ingly ; the Federal Arbitration Court, which
can fix wages without regard to the Board
of Trade’s investigations. The result is
hopeless complexity: and, since employers
don’t know what their cost will be within
the next few weeks, or months, industry is
being paralysed. Or where it is being car-
ried on the public has to pay for the uncer-
tainty. Last week a big contract was let
in Sydney. The result of the Board of Trade
inquiry had just been announced. The con-
tractors didn’t know where it would land
them, so they naturally provided tor the
worst; and that provision will be passed
off to the public in due course.
Ii J.”: Since Federation 13 proposals
been submitted to a referendum, and
■ twice have affirmative majorities been
secured. Timidity toward every proposal has
characterised the electors, especially in the
eastern States. West Australia gave “Yes”
majorities to every one of the 13 questions.
“Copy Boy”: The chief object of the
Judges’ Pensions Bill, which has been intro-
duced into the Victorian Leg. Ass., is. to
ensure that Irvine will receive £ISUO a year
when he retires. There is only £4OOO in the
“pool” from which Supreme Court Judges re-
ceive their pensions. Hartley Williams, who
left the Bench in pique when Madden was
appointed Chief, is still drawing £l5OO a
year (as he has been for a great many
years) and spending it in England ; and Hood
is liable to claim his £l5OO almost any day.
This would leave a mere £lOOO for Irvine,
who was GO when appointed C.J., and the
bill aims at increasing the amount
to be paid to him to £l5OO. There
are good reasons why .fudges should
receive pensions, but this particular measure
provides material for irony. It was intro-
duced immediately after an amended Marine
Bill, the object of which is to increase deduc-
tions from pilotage dues from 6 to 10 per
cent., so as to place the pilots’ superannua-
HIS SHARE.
THE MAN IN THE MIDDLE : “For what we are about to receive the Lord make us truly
thankful.”
tion fund in a more healthy condition, which
raises the question why Judges should not
provide their own pensions by means of pay-
ments from their large salaries into a similar
fund. There is further food for irony in the
idea of providing a pension for Irvine, who,
when in politics, bitterly assailed the Old
Age Pension scheme. He argued that such
“doles” served to sap the independence of
the individual.
“The Wanderer”: In his cynical contempt
for his amazing followers at Blayney
(N.S.W.), the late W. P. Crick was notor-
ious. John Haynes on one occasion in the
Assembly claimed that he had received
a letter from an elector at Blayney. Crick
retorted: “You’re a liar—none of them can
write.” And it was before an enthralled
audience in his constituency that Crick, while
promising he “would make them shudder in
their socks.” suddenly broke off with the
courtly aside, “those of you, that is to say.
who happen to wear socks.”
Frank Anstey, M.H.R. for Bourke (Vic.),
having represented the Labor press in the
party of Australian editors who visited the
old world last year, has published a book
entitled “Red Europe.” Therein he describes
as “disloyalists, traitors and treason-
mongers” those Australian importers who,
before the war, “assisted the growth of the
economic power of the Germans in Aus-
tralia,” and who are now “eagerly assisting
to build up the trade power of Japan in Aus-
tralia.” Anstey suggests that these men
should be “rooted out with fire and sword,
or exiled from the country they sell, de-
spoil and betray.” But as a milder alter-
native, and one which should be infinitely
more acceptable to the humane people of
this country, what about an adequate tariff
as a means of rendering these “traitors” in-
effective? Anstey knows as well as anybody
else, no matter how loudly he may bawl of
bloodshed, that the fire-and-sword gospel will
receive little sympathy here; and he
also knows that popular feeling overwhelm-
ingly favors the policy which his own party,
when in power, proved too weak-kneed to
carry to a fitting and honest conclusion.
Norman Bayles. M.L.A. for Toorak (Vic.),
who is apparently tired of his struggles to-
wards the State Premiership, is accused of
gazing reflectively at the Federal constitu-
ency of Ilenty (Vic.), represented by James
Boyd. Norman’s platform and private man-
ners offer a pleasant contrast to those of the
blusterous sitting member, and that’s sotne-
thing to go on with. Both Bayles and Boyd
are “machine” Nationalists, so the election
will have to be decided in the preliminary
party-ballot.
When any repatriation business that isn’t
loans, land or land-jobbing happens to be
mentioned it is the pose of the Freetrade sec-
tion of the Government to mean well, but
to be as helpless as a baby attacked by
crocodiles. Thus Senator Millen, being asked
for the blankth time about a sufficient supply
of yarn to keep the promising Anzae tweed
industry from being frozen stiff, said yarn
would be forthcoming “so far as the limited
resources of the Commonwealth woollen mills
permitted.” And if someone suggested
starting more mills Millen would probably
be as flabbergasted as if he learned that
Queen Anne was dead —which she is, by
the way:
The Health Bill introduced in the Vie.
Assembly sets up a Commission of seven,
nominated by the Ministry, in place of the
present effete Board of Control. The chief
health-officer is to be chairman, and the other
six (including two sawbones) are to get two
guineas a sitting each, but they must not
draw more than £l2O a man yearly. Whole-
time health-officers are to be substituted for
part-time, go-as-you-please, poorly-paid muni-
cipal doctors. The new group of experts in
sanitary science will be. also, auxiliary
school medical-officers. Wide powers a-re
given to the Commission in regard to every-
thing relating to the preservation of health
and the fighting of disease. If the Govern-
ment will put its back up and fight insidious
municipal efforts to weaken or undermine
the bill, something like order will be evolved
out of the present chaotic health conditions
in Vic. The measure can be shaped into some-
thing useful if human life and human safety
are not subordinated to vested interests.
For years Melbourne has been sending
barristers, speculators, “gentlemen” (vide
nomination papers) and nondescript persons
into country districts to offer themselves for
Parliament. Not infrequently they have
been successful. Now it is proposed to re-
turn the compliment. It is seriously sug-
gested that the A’ictorian Farmers’ Union
should nominate candidates for suburban
electorates, and test the sincerity of those
who are so fond of telling the agriculturists
at Royal Show time that they are the back-
bone of the country. There are two subur-
ban seats which, it is claimed, could be won
by “presentable” farmers, especially if
equipped with Scottish names, s
“F.C.”: A cursory inspection of the politi-
cal news in the Melbourne dailies of late
inclines me to the opinion that the popula-
tion of the Commonwealth consists of two
persons—Billy Hughes and T. Ryan. In
fact, I’m not sure that even Hughes counts.
The whole future of Australia seems to de-
pend on what Ryan thinks, or intends, or
proposes or suggests. Blow Ryan.
Some years ago, when McGowen, then
Premier of N. S. Wales, went on a trip to
England. Holman was Acting Premier and
Carmichael was made Assistant-Trea-
surer. The invariable arrangement about
quarters is that an acting-Minister shall
occupy those rooms which go with
his job; and Carmichael therefore took
over the ornamental apartment tenanted
by McGowfen as Premier and Trea-
surer. Holman, though he had a fine
suite in the Attorney-General’s Dept.,
coveted the boudoir which Carmichael had
annexed, and went along to argue the point,
contending that as Premier it belonged to
him. Car.’s reply was that as Treasurer
the Treasurer’s quarters were his perquisite.
Holman insisted, but for once his honeyed
discourse fell on deaf ears. Carmichael
thrust his thumbs into his vest armholes and
said : “Look here, Bill, this is my room, and
you can argue till you’re well blue and
black, but I’m going to keep it. You can
have the anteroom.” Holman retired with
what grace the situation left him.
“Mr. Oeky”: Billy Hughes was very
amiable amongst the Diggers in France. I
saw him at Fontaine-les-Cappy, where he
managed for a time to elude the Generals.
They found him down at the men’s cooks’-
house shaking hands with the “greasies” and
others, and pulling everybody’s leg. I don’t
think he actually asked anybody for a vote,
but there are more ways than one of stroking
a cat.
A humorous feature of the Victorian Far-
mers’ Union Conference was a speech by the
solemn Weaver, M.L.A., in which he deplored,
the “radical tendencies” which he alleged
Hayseed was manifesting, and warned him
that if he continued to pursue his wild course
he would lose the respect of right-thinking
people. Weaver’s oration was delivered
shortly after the conference, by large majori-
ties, had rejected motions in favor of the
abolition of State Governors and the House
of Fat.
“Croson”: I understand that Senator
Pearce, together with Mrs. Pearce, several
Pearcelets, a secretary and train of minions,
went to Blighty to demobilise the Diggers.
Now the cable tells me that he has “ended
his mission, which included conferences with
the British Government concerning Austra-
lian indebtedness, the graves of soldiers, plant
for an arsenal, freights on apples and horses,
also fruit.” But no mention is made that
he has cleared up such problems as Britain’s
embargo against our exportation of rabbits’
livers and ’possums’ teeth; also the matter
of freight on Tasmanian devils’ tails has not
yet been properly adjusted. Perhaps it’s
been decided that, the High Commissioner
can be trusted to attend to these questions.
It’s risky, but I suppose Andy Fisher is
expected to earn his salary somehow.
“M.”: In Australia we are accustomed to
Royal Commissions which take months to get
appointed, and last for years taking evidence
and finally submitting costly reports that are
never acted upon. The Vic. Coal Commis-
sion, with Dr. £. £. Smith as chairman, the
Vic. Lunacy Commission, with old E. L. Zox
as chairman, the Vic. Fish Commission,
with George Prendergast in the chair, were
examples. In U.S.A. the Senate ap-
points a commission to inquire into the need
for a new law, to probe a public scandal, or
to examine a case of graft. The members
meet the same clay, send messengers after
the witnesses, cross-examine them, put them
through the third degree, draw up the report,
draft the required bill, and the matter is dis-
posed of by both Houses of Congress before
you could “make a book” on the findings
THE FIRST ESSENTIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The world is in a tumult dire,”
Says little William Hughes.
“Here anarchy and hate conspire
To put the lands to sword and fire,
And every wicked ruse
Commercial buccaneers contrive
To rob the workers of the hive.
“The roar of revolution swells,
And still importunate
Wild Labor lighting little hells
Destroys commercial citadels.
Imperilling the State.
The shoddy gods of Asia fall
Upon our hapless people all.
“The load of debt it grows apace,
And soon Fate may decide
That we shall fall from out the race.
Oh, my dear brothers, in this case
How can we listless bide?
Begin to save the world,” says he,
“By making things quite safe for me!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE ETERNAL OUTCAST.
“The clouds are gathering for another war.” — World-wide opinion.
MARS: “What do you want?”
PEACE: “Take me in.”
MARS: “I’ve been doing that all your life. Go away!”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered <BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms p rnTMl i a t e d t
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (. Bai a.
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products A«?sav)
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (I^®t^wder d A Y '
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious S 1 ' er- _
containing: Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, /me Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
it T, SHACKELL, Secretary. _ _ „
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, E. .
A. J. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEI
R. N. KIRK (Agent). , mr _
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAI
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT A '
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ENSURE THE SAFETY of YOUR ESTATE
BY APPOINTING
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Executor and Trustee under Your Will, Trustee of Your Marriage or other
Settlement, Attorney Under Power, or Agent.
Trust Funds under the Company’s control exceed £15,000,000.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
Write or call for Booklet, which explains the Company’s Methods & Charges.
33-39 HUNTER. STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Secretary: R. L. MASSIE.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere—the
“PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Adelaide Steamship Co. :
Net To Re ' Re '
June Profits Dividends. serves. serves.
1907’.. £83,890 10 p.c. = £50,718 £33,172 £236,980
1908.. 82,850 10 „ „ 50,718 32,13- 269,112
£202,870 transferred to capital .. 00,242
1909.. 84,112 10 p.c. = 62,129 21,980 88,225
1910.. 85,462 10 „ „ 71,004 14,408 10-.683
1911.. 67,221 10 „ „ 71,004
1912.. 51,852 8 „ „ 56,804 93,948
1913.. 49,874 3 „ „ 21,301 28,573 1-2,521
-1014 63 754 6 42,602 21,152 143,673
ms!'. 67,903 6 „ 23,676 167,349
1916.. 226,531 10* „ „ 81,380 { 95j151 262,500
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 )
1917.. 260,004 lOp.e. = 77,504 . 132) 500 395,000
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 )
1918.. 207,504 10 p.c. = 77,504 130,000 02.>,000
1919.. 152,452 15 „ ~116,257 36,19 a 561,195
The doubtful value of the accounts published
by shipping managements is well
by the latest Adelaide S.S. figures. Though
for practically the whole of the last two
months of the year to June 30 the seamen
refused to man the ships, and though Aus-
tralian ship-owners were seriously handi-
capped in the conduct of _ their business by
Government control during the the
directors disclosed net profits of
Yet for the 1917-18 term, when conditions
were much more favorable, the directors
stated that the net profits were only
£77,504—1e5s than two-thirds of those dis-
closed for the past year. Since the war there
has been a vast difference between the net
profits wdiich the management admits having
earned and the actual surpluses which are
visible in the balance-sheets, for large addi-
tions have been made to reserves for insur-
ance, renewals, repairs, replacements, etc.,
which have not been included in the P. and
L. accounts. This table shows these addi-
tions :—■
Net Added to
Profits Added Reserve Voted to
as stated to Insur- for Provi- Profit
by man- ance Renew- dent as shown
agement. Reserve, als, etc. Fund, in table.
1916 . . £71,531 £50,000 £55,000 £50,000 £226,531
1917 . 77,504 50,000 82,500 50,000 260,004
1918 . . 77,504 80,000 50,000 207,504
1919 . . 117,452 15,000 20,000 152,452
So while over the four years the co. .admits
having made net profits aggregating only
£343,991, it has meantime tacked £195,009
to its insurance reserve, put £207,500 aside
for repairs, renewals and replacements, and
voted £lOO,OOO to establish a provident fund.
Total profits and surpluses for _the four
years were thus practically £846,500 —over
£70,000 more than the paid capital.
Even these figures possibly do not tell the
full extent of the profits for the five years.
No hint is given of the amounts which have
been written off for depreciation ; but judging
by the reserves which the co. has been able
to accumulate for other purposes it would
not be surprising to learn that very liberal
provision has been made for depreciation.
Nowadays it is impossible to obtain even an
approximate idea as to the book value of the
fleet from the balance-sheets. Four years
ago “steamers, hulks,, lighters, plant, free-
hold properties, wharves and shares in
other cos.” were tied up in one parcel said to
be worth £1,174,674. In recent balance-
sheets an unspecified amount of Government
securities has been included with the fixed
assets, and at June 30 last the mixture was
set down at £1,246,394. For sake of ap-
pearances, no doubt, the co. does admit to
holding a quarter of a million of War Loan
apart from the Government securities already
mentioned. Because of the compounding of
fixed and liquid assets, a table showing the
movements of the balance-sheet figures dur-
ing recent years is of little value. But
some indication as to the pace at which sur-
plus liquid assets have been built up can be
got in this way: —
1915. 1919.
Liquid assets . . . . • • £153,341 £719,372*
Liabilities (excluding Provi-
dent Fund) . . . . • • 362,695 468,2-4
Excess liabilities ..£209,354 _
Surplus assets ( . . £251,148
♦Exclusive of Government securities included with
fixed assets in balance-sheet.
So apart from hidden cash assets, the co.
has in four years effected an alteration of
over £460.000 in its liquid position. Prior
to the war it had been adding to its fleet,
with the result that liquid assets were cut
into deeply; since 1915, besides having been
assisted by record profits, the sal ® the
has also piled up liquid assets. Durinrthe
past four years the Grantala (30i
Wollowra (2631 tons), Innammcka (2501
tons) and Winfield (3215 tons) have been
sold, the Warilda (7712 tons) and Echunga
(4589 tons) were torpedoed, while theie
have been other sales and purchases of
hulks and lighters. The co. must have done
very well out of these sales; but how it
fared as a result of the losses from Wil-
helm’s submarines cannot be ascertained
from the published figures. #
The extent to which the war has fat-
tened the Adelaide S. S. Co. is not yet cletK
even to those right inside; for it is not
possible to estimate how the surpluses
from sales will be cut into to replace the
lost tonnages. Already the co.’s chairman
and secretary are wandering round the
English shipyards, and, as a result of their
inquiries, the news is broken gently that “if
Australian shipowners purchased new ton-
nages at the high prices now asked it would
be necessary to increase freights.”
* * * *
Beard, Watson, Ltd. (Sydney), house
furnishers, etc.: —
, Dividends. \ To Re- Re-
Julv, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1910.. £12,232 £768 10 p.c. = £4374 £7,090£12,477
1911.. 11,943 900 10 „ „ 5000 6,043 18,520
1912.. 14,737 956 10 „ „ 5152 8,629 27,149
1913.. 11,314 1697 10 „ ~ 7214 2,403 29,552
1914.. 146 1800 Nil 27,898
1915.. 1,939 1800 Nil 139 28,037
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. Old.
1916.. 14,678 1800 3675 Nil■ } 6 ,529 34,266
Arrearsof divs.on2nd Prefs. paid, £29/4 j
(15 p.c.)
1917.. 24,551 ISOO 3675 11,250 7,826 42,092
1918.. 27,656 1800 3675 11,250 10,931 53,023
1919.. 28,027 1800 3675 11,250 11,302 64,325
So many people have thought themselves
better off during the past few years that this
high-class Sydney furnishing co. has been
having a gorgeous time. After paying 6 p.c.
on one lot of £30,600 prefs. and 7 p.c. on
another lot of £52,500, it has in two years
disclosed £44,733 of profits on an ordinary
capital of £75,000. To meet the increased
custom, the management has had to maintain
heavy stocks purchased at war-inflated
prices, and until recently, when a better
view of the new conditions likely to follow
Peace was possible, there seemed some danger
in these large and expensive accumulations.
But there is now apparently little likelihood
of any sudden slump, or, indeed, any material
decline in prices for some considerable time.
Beard, Watson’s were alive to the possibili-
ties of trouble, however, and put £13,000 of
profits aside in a contingency reserve, which
has been included in the reserves shown in
the table.
Though, since 1914, accumulated profits
have been built up by £36,42 <, practically
the whole of this and £40,434 of capital be-
sides have gone in the purchase of freeholds.
Previously the co. had hung out its sign
in premises leased from the Dixon Trust.
Portion of the building collapsed in Sep-
tember, 1913, which accounts tor the dent
in the middle of the profits column The
co. sued the landlord for damages and com-
pensation for loss of trade, and after fierce
litigation, which terminated at the 1 rivy
Council, it won its case, and later on pur-
chased the property. The effect of the pro-
perty-purchase and expansion of the business
is shown in this comparison of the balance-
sheet figures:—
1910. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Capital . . £65,000 £117,066 £157,500 £157,500
Liabilities .. 38,123 93,363 129,835 150,672
“di ““ Nil 15,484 73,000 88,500
Stock •• 73,402 140,930 178,184 196,664
Book debts .. 41,343 56,634 80,040 80,349
Machinery, piant’ n m 17>569 14 , 976
Cash, etc. • • 585 15,057 5,703 5,995
Over the nine years covered by the com-
parison, £92,500 of additional capital has
been got in, and liabilities have increased
by £112,549. Meantime stocks and other
more or less liquid assets have expanded
in book value by £167,728, and £97,984 has
been added to fixed assets. So if stocks aie
worth all they are shown at in the books
and full provision has been more for bad and
doubtful debts, since 1910 the co. had,
before payment of the current ordinary div.,
improved its position by about £60,600, de-
spite the very chilly time it experienced tor
a couple of years after the building collapsed.
Though 15 p.c, divs. have been handed out
lately, the average return to shareholders has
not been large on account of the three years
iri which they got no divs. at all; the average
rate over the past 10 years works out at
only 8£ p.c. p.a. But the co. has been hav-
ing such a prosperous time during the past
two years that, provided the contingency
appropriations are not called for, profits
available for the ordinaries have been equal
to close upon 30 p.c. p.a. of their paid capi-
tal. Whether the co. can maintain this pace
in the future is doubtful. So far the feeling
of prosperity created by war-spendings has
not worn off, and the public still does not
realise that it will very, soon have to foot
the war-bill. Under these circumstances,
and particularly if production is not
speeded-up, it is unlikely that Beard, Wat-
son’s will find customers so readily as dur-
ing the past few years.
Automatic Telephones (Australasia),
Ltd., which began with £5OOO of its capital
represented by goodwill:—
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £3 £3 £4,997
1913.. 567 567 4,430
1914.. 4361 7Jp.c. = £3750 611 3,819
Co. reconstructed ; goodwill written up, £7500 11,319
IQUi h ’ 6319 \ ord - 16 » p - c - = 6250 l 12,500
1915.. 6519 | Def ggj 1250 ) ’
June,
1916.. 7170 8 p.c. = 6250 920 11,580
1917.. 5496 10 „ „ 6250 12,334
1918.. 6357 10 „ ~ 6250 107 12,227
1919.. 6375 10 „ „ 6250 125 12,102
This co. bolds the Australasian rights of a
number of auto, contrivances, but the auto-
matic telephone is its big line. During the
past year it has completed exchanges at Mal-
vern (Vie.), Christchurch and Wanganui
(M.L.), while the big City North (Sydney)
should be in operation this month. ” hat
work lies ahead is not clear; the war has
upset all anticipations and Governments can-
not find the money to lay out on transforming
the old system into the new. Apparently
the only job in view is the Collingwood
(Vic.) auto, exchange, and tenders for that
are not returnable until early next year. The
co. is little more than an agent, importing
most of its gear from the Automatic Electric
Co., of Chicago ; consequently little of its
capital is in fixed assets. On account of the
volume of work in hand 12 months ago the
co. then owed £13,417 to sundry creditors
and £43,310 to the bank. At the latest
balance total liabilities had been reduced to
£863, and deducting this from cash in hand
there were tin' following assets to represent
paid capital of £62,500: —
Stock and plant . . • • • • £ J 2 ’^ 2 ®
Work in progress and sundry debtors 32,913
Deposits on contracts • • • • ?’rnn
Investments .. • • • • • • b'*!! .
Cash 6 ’ 334
Total . . £56,648
Goodwill apparently still stands at £12,500.
Only half the dividend distribution has so
far been made, the other 5 p.c. not being pay-
able until February next. Deducting the
current payment, the co. has tangible assets
of just over 17s. to represent each £1 share.
The margin between disclosed, profits nnd the
10 p.c. div. is very slender, and over the
past three years has not helped to improve
the assets value of the shares, unless there
has been considerable writing-down which
does not meet the eye.
* * * *
Members of the Metal Exchange enter-
tained Hughes at a welcome dinner at Mel-
bourne; and Hughes entertained the Metal
Exchange with the old, weary guff:—
The policy in regard to the Exchange has justified
itself, and has nroved of great service to this Country.
Australia was in the grip of the German metal; octo-
pus, and the position of the Australian metal incuts-
try at the outbreak of war was not only pathetic,
but tragic. We waged war against German influence,
as our soldiers waged war on the field of battle
(applause)—and we made this country fit for our
boys to come back to. (Renewed applause.), The
strides made by our iron and steel industries stand
as a great achievement. (Applause.) We are now
within measurable distance of meeting Australian
requirements from steel made from Australian
material. (Applause.)
Hughes is throwing dust in the eyes ot the
public; and a man who does that at such a
time as the present isn’t a patriot, wna -
•ever else he may be. Australia was in the
grip of the German metal octopus. But
what has the development of the iron and
steel industry got to do with it. ; The Ger-
mans bought our raw lead and zinc and a
good deal of our copper. That constituted
the “grip.” They didn’t buy our iron ore
—didn’t buy a ton of it. So the release of
the German “grip” has no more to do with
the development of the iron and steel in-
dustry than with the development of the
dried-fruit industry. As for the rest, how
definitelv has the Metal Exchange justified
itself? 'True, during the war our metals
found buyers. But as the chairman of the
Zinc Corporation recently announced in
London, the metals could have been sold to
far greater advantage by the cos. them-
selves. If it is a justification that the
Allies were provided with metals at the
expense of the Australian producer, then
the Metal Exchange has been justified. In
return for that the Exchange might at
least have made arrangements for the
Allies to go on taking Australian metals
after the war, giving them some preference.
But it did nothing of the sort, with the
result that two-thirds of the copper-mines
of Australia have been closed for nearly
a year, and five-sixths of the lead produc-
tion of Australia over the same period re-
mains unsold. No amount of Hughes’s
wordy camouflage can hide the fact that,
in this metal business, as in so many other
things, the Prime Minister has simply been
made a tool of, and that Australia would
now be vastly better off if he had not but-
ted into the business at all—except, of
course, to see (as the Government was
bound to see) that during the war the
metals reached only friends.
* * * *
North Broken Hill, Ltd., which till
six years ago was the N.B.H. Mining Co.,
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier: —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., ’ll.. 98,708 70 p.c.= 61,250 12,168 129,226
June, ’12.. 101,663 93J „ „ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dec., ’12.. 175,993 220 ~ ~220,000 17,200 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £200,000 to £600,000.
June ,’l3. . 142,018 20 p.c.= 60,000 3,265 78,753
Dec ’l3 . 152,596 40 „ „ 120,000 1,925 109,424
June, ’14.. 183,845 50 ~,, 150,000 143,269
Dec. ’14.. 56,216 Nil 199,485
June ,’15.. 75,724 10 p.c.= 30,000 245,209
Dec., ’15.. 169,201 40 ~,, 120,000 294,410
June, ’16.. 142,092 40 „,, 120,000 316,502
Dec., ’16.. 171,442 40 „ ~120,000 367,944
June, ’l7. . 183,299 40 ~,,120,000 431,243
Dec., ’17.. 217,239 40 „ ~120,000 528,482
June, ’IS.. 175,005 40 „ „ 120,000 10,512 572,975
Dec, ’lB.-179,110 40 „ ~120,000 632,091
June, ’19.. 118,552 20 „ „ 60,000 690,643
The North has been one of the prizes in the
Barrier lottery. But for many years it
looked like a blank, and the present co., or
rather the co. of which it is a reconstruction,
bought the mine as a derelict, on which a
lot of money had been spent without reward.
This is a point of some consequence in the
discussion as to what is a lair thing to pay
labor on the Broken Hill mines. When the
cos. replv that they can’t afford the wages
demanded, the Brookfields retort that a mil-
lion and a half or something (the figure
doesn’t matter) has been divided among
shareholders during the last few years. The
fairer way would be to have a profit and
loss account of the field; for a half-d zen or
so mines have to do all the earning for at
least a thousand Barrier claims, the others
never paying a dividend. Day Dream and
the Pinnacles had smelters before Broken
Hill, and were merely sinks for money ; and
even in the early days of Broken Hill there
were thousands of people who preferred the
chances of Bound Hill, three or four miles
away, from which and from the group of
claims around it the holders never drew a
penny. If Labor is going to base its de-
mands on what the few successes can afford
to pay, then there presently isn’t going t,o
be any mining to employ anybody—any more
than there would be a Melbourne Cup if
every jockey was entitled to as much as the
owner of the winning horse can afford to
pay.
The figures for the past half-year are
guesses. The figures for any single term,
are a good deal like that; but this t’me
they are more so. The North, like most
other 8.11. cos., sends its silver-lead con-
centrates to the Associated Smelters, Pt.
Pirie, in which it has a £200,000 share in-
terest. Hughes having, on his own admis-
sion, “solved the metal problem,” this co.
has not been able to sell any metal to speak
of during the current year ; in other words,
Hughes’s scheme broke down the instant
the slightest pressure was put upon it.
Consequently not only is the value of the
past half-year’s output uncertain, practically
none of it having yet been sold, but a gt-eat
deal of the output of the previous term is
still not finally settled for. The practice
is to take credit in the accounts for 90 p.c.
of the pro forma, value of concentrates as
disclosed by assay, reckoning lead at £23 per
ton. Lead is still Worth considerably more
than that, so there may be substantial
balances to draw ; but the working account
of the past half-year has been credited
with “the estimated balance still to be
received on account of products of previous
terms,” If there was a bad smash in the
markets, it would be found that the co. had
assumed too much profit, and future accounts
would suffer accordingly. But on present
appearances this isn’t likely. However,
this has to be realised: present disclosed
profit may be too much or too little. If it
is too much, future profits will suffer. If
too little, future profits will benefit.
There is a further disturbing factor. This
co. used to send its zinc “tailings” to De
Bavay’s; but that arrangement ran out on
April 30. Previously the co. had obtained
a licpnse from Minerals Separation and De
Bavay’s, Ltd., to use its processes, and a
flotation plant is partly built. The strike
started on May 8, so_there wasn’t much ac-
cumulation of zinc tailings during the past
term; but whether they have been reckoned
as worth something and their value added
to the profits the accounts do not show. The
strike is still on. The miners simply refuse
to have anything to do with arbitration. Of
course, it is a plain defiance of the law. But


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit M«S2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.’’
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4£d.
1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Canada
.. ’ 2/4 1/2
j 7d. (minimum
i 11/8,20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mnv be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 P.tt Street, Sydney. Tel. Citv 1346 (* lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. J.'iSs.
•I. MTLWARD. Man-i"-er tv,-.
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ’
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy fqr starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company. Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Aluminoferric is necessary where cattle turn up
the mud in the drinking water. A little distributed
over the water will quickly precipitate all impuri-
ties, thus clarifying and purifying the water for your
stock. Use it in your reservoirs, your wells and
your house tanks. If your storekeeper cannot sup-
ply you send direct to us for free leaflets, particulars
and prices. William Adams & Co. Ltd., Sydney.
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [3
♦ * * *
For grinding' all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results,
'these balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Pipe.—Letter received from Humble
and Sons Pty. Ltd., Geelong. Dated 17th February,
1919: “Your favor of the 13th inst. is to hand. In
reply we would say that the wood pipes supplied by
you for hydraulic sluicing purposes have proved very
satisfactory. We prefer them to the steel pipes,
which, owing to bad water, we find to be unsuitable.
Sgd. Humble & Sons Pty. Ltd.” Send for our illus-
trated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Com-
pany Ltd., H.O. Burns Bay Hoad, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
P.O. address: Box 1570 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories:
Burns Bay Hoad, Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Footscray,
Vic. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
• * * «
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
guilders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * *
The high rates of wages now being paid make it
necessary for companies handling material to adopt
the latest labor-saving devices, and Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Circular Quay, Sydney, who maintain an
engineering department specially for the design of
elevating and conveying machinery with a view to
minimising hand-labor, thus reducing the cost of
handling, are prepared to submit proposals for plants
suitable for any service. Queensland inquiries: The
Australian Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane.—
Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coimisox & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Hequisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
latI at , es - writ ® for Particulars. 11. B. Selbv & Co.,
65 c G n orge St J eet (between Hunter and Bond
Stieets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *■
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
glnee :’„ Valuln l’ or eamsing, technical advice,
flotatlon and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Me r ibournZ”-ADVT CabIeS “ d Tele^raras: “Remlap,
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
YV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne —Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers- -Metallurgists —Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Broken Hill is a long way off, and if Broken
Hill likes to make a fool of itself neither
Sydney nor Melbourne cares a bit. And ap-
parently the cos. don’t care much either.
Some of them got very tired of stacking up
stuff that they couldn’t sell; for though the
Associated Smelters nominally pay for the
silver-lead concentrates, the cos. themselves
have to finance the Smelters. Thus in addition
to its £200,000 share interest the North has
lent the Smelters £lOO,OOO, and sundry
debtors (largely, no doubt, the Smelters) owe
£136,931. On December 31 the North had
£207,338 in cash balances and deposits apart
from the £lOO,OOO loan to the Smelters; at
June 30 it had only £132,232, notwithstand-
ing that meantime it had sold £25,000 of
Commonwealth War Loan. And as a lot of
cash is wanted for the zinc works in Tas-
mania and for other plant, this eo., at any
rate, isn’t likely to be worrying much over
the stoppage. However, the men who run
the Broken Hill miners’ union talk so much
that they haven’t got time to do any think-
ing about these and other points of tactical
importance.
Nex t:—
June’ 14. Dec., ’lB. June, ’l9.
Assets apart from mine
and plant .. ..£240,615 £909,929 £880,555
Liabilities .. .. 29,390 242,156 186,375
£211,225 £667,773 £694,180
It was a great time during the war; and two-
thirds of the profits were war profits, and
therefore wicked, and the Commonwealth
should have collected them. That it failed to
do so is an everlasting reflection upon Hughes
and his Government; and it is nothing to the
credit of some of the directors of this and
other Australian mining cos. that they log-
rolled and lobbied in order that they might
get rich out of this great calamity of war.
Besides this surplus of liquid assets, which
includes £291,750 invested in the Smelters
(£200.000), the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
(£80,000) and similar concerns, the co. ow’ris
the mine, which, as at December 31 last,
contained 2,600,000 tons of ore “available
for stoping above the 1400 ft. level.’’ Cross-
cutting for the lode has been started at
1550 ft., and a plat has been cut at 1700 ft-
.- shaft is 70ft. deeper. What profit can
be made per ton of ore depends entirely on
(1) future prices of metals and (2) future
w r ages and other costs. What has been done
during the past year is, of course, no cri-
terion ; but merely as a matter of interest
it can be said that in the last year profits
have been £2 6s. 6d. per ton., In pre-war
days it was reckoned a good performance to
make £l. If, however, a fair allowance was
made for depreciation (apart from mine de-
preciation) a considerable cut would have to
come off that £2 6s. 6d.; for the North’s
accounts are presented in, such a way as to
magnify the profits—a rather unusual per-
formance nowadays.
*■ -x- * *
One hundred feet of sinking, a little cross-
cutting and driving on the Celebration lease,
and some costeening, potliolmg and loaming
here and there represented,, all the work
which had been done on Block 50 when a
Bulletin man had a look at Hampton Plains
(W.A.) last week. The Celebration shaft has
been sunk in the centre off a big friable
oxidised formation, and for the first 100 ft.
assays average £5 10s. per ton; in the
crosscut at 50ft., where the lode is 25ft.
wide, the highest assay was £l5 10s., and
the lowest £3 55., the average being over
£B. Values in the crosscut at 100 ft. are
reckoned to be about £5 over a width of
20ft., and in drives at that level assays so
far average £6 north and £3 south. Sul-
phides are not expected to show up until a
depth of 200 ft. is reached.
With the exception of the Celebration
lease, whose permanency, though still un-
proved, looks assured, so little work has
been done on other claims that it is futile
to attempt to gauge prospects. Many of the
claims will certainly prove to be worthless,
and others found to contain insufficient ore
to pay any co. which attempts to work them.
Already the value of some of the leases is
being boomed in Adelaide and Melbourne,
but, with one or two exceptions, there is
nothing to justify some of the reports being
put around.
At Slavin’s find on Block 48, six miles
from the Celebration, several prospecting
shafts and potholes have been sunk along
the strike of hard sulphide formation, which
can be traced a considerable distance, and
which assays better tnan it looks. Average
values are lower than in the Celebration,
while the character of the ore will make
treatment more expensive, and not unlikely
more difficult. The country has been pegged
for miles, and, as on Block 50, absurd prices
are being asked for options, London offers
have already been made for the Celebration,
but if it opens up well and is floated the
public is not likely to get in on the
ground floor. Gold-mines of established
value are rarely offered to public except at
a big premium. The Sons of Gwalia is one
of many instances which could be quoted.
According to Frank Stone, an old Perth
lawyer, the Hampton Plains property origin-
ally comprised 1| million acres, and was
sold by a local syndicate to the Hampton
Co. at 2s. 6d. per acre if paid for within
seven years, or ss. 6d. per acre within 14
years. To encourage prospecting Stone’s
firm, Stone and Burt, the co.’s attorneys,
advertised a reward of 50 acres of freehold
on the line of any reef discovered, but the
late Arthur Bayley was the only applicant
for a permit. Soon after Bayley found
Coolgardie, he saw Stone and claimed the
reward. But a fresh survey was made, and
this showed Bayley’s find to be about two
miles outside the co.’s boundary.
* * * «
An Adelaide eo. secured an option over a
20-acre block at Hampton Plains, and its
engineer reported “there is sonic evidence
that alluvial ground has been worked on the
eastern boundary of the block. The forma-
tion is schistose. The general indications
are favorable for prospecting. Blocks have
not been surveyed and present boundary
might be seriouslv altered when survey is
completed." On the strength of the “indica-
tions favorable for prospecting” on a block
which when surveyed might belong to some-
one else, the shares were promptly raised
from nothing to over Ms. This is merely a
foretaste of what may tie expected if* work
on the Celebration lease discloses a continu-
ous body of high-grade ore.
Mararoa, the Adelaide eo. working at the
Norseman, with a side-line in the Light of
Asia, Cue ( W.A.), is finding the latter show
poor stuff. Its old mine outputted £13,530
of gold last half-year by scraping-out slopes
and digging north at No. 0, and this saved
stiff calls to feed the Light of Asia. As it
was, a shilling contributed kept the ledger
about square; but ahead the clouds are
black. Manager Henderson gives no esti-
mate of reserves in the Mararoa; No. (» level
has got into broken ground. The first
trouble at the Light of Asia was that
the stopes above No. 3 level south showed
the reef squeezed down to 12 inches of low-
grade dirt. Following on that the stopes
underfoot at No. 2, instead of opening out on
a sfl. formation, ran into a foot of decidedly
low-grade quartz. So, with overhead and
underfoot prospects poor, a winze was put
down from No. 3 in the north end, and fair
stone has shown up. So Henderson now
remarks that prospects at the new No. 4
level are “at least encouraging.”
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) talks of recon-
structing. Present capital is £225,000 in
£1 shares, and the Board proposes to reduce
this to £112,500 in 450.000 ss. shares, half
of which will be issued to shareholders in ex-
change for their present holdings, leaving
225.000 in reserve, to be issued, when further
working capital is required or a new mine
is found.
It is said that Sydney brokers (is it not a
misnomer to call such onerators brokers?) are
oversold to the extent of over 25.000 Vege-
table Creek shares, which is probably just
as doubtful as are some of the canards which
are circulated in support of the “bear” raid.
For example, someone knows for a “positive
certainty” that the mine manager has sold
all his shares —as though any mine manager
would be foolish enough to arrange his busi-
ness in such a way as to admit of a damaging
fact like that becoming known. Then the
most has been made of the discontinuance of
work at the Allen shaft, which was clearly
indicated as to time in the last report. The
decline of the yield of tin last week by one
ton was also made the best use of by the
raiders, but there was a satisfactory ex-
planation for this. Persistent failure of
bores is also a constant “bear" argument,
but, strange to say, none of dozens of bores
on the property ever revealed anything pay-
able. Chance developments from under-
ground exploration have had to be relied on.
It is now reported that recent discoveries
in the Cordon section leave the ore reserve
there at the same tonnage as it was in
April last. There are miles of the main
lead unexplored, and with so much legitimate
prospecting work ahead it is idle to talk of
the mine’s days being numbered. The
directors are certainly to blame for the
policy of secrecy which is maintained.
Shareholders are entitled to more informa-
tion than weekly records of tin production
and dates of dividends.
* * * »
It is a principle laid down by the N. S.
Wales Mines Department “that no dredging
lease shall be granted over land which can
be profitably operated upon by the individ-
ual miner with ordinary hand appliances.”
This principle is responsible for the shep-
herding of large areas of land which are
not operated upon profitably pr otherwise,
but which if made available would be turned
over to good account by modern machinery.
The evil is particularly strong on the nor-
thern tinfields, and the chief shepherds are
derelict Chinese. There are several splendid
sluicing areas in the New England district
\\ liich are so cleverly ‘‘peacocked’’ bv
Chinese under miner’s-right titles that the
man with machinery has no hope of getting
in. In one case, three miles of a creek
that carries high tin values are held by
eight Chinese, not one of whom is capable
ot doing* a day’s work. They make a pre-
fence of complying with the law by panning
off a dish of dirt a day, and some of them
are so decrepit that they have literally to
crawl on all fours from their huts. They
are all ancient residents who have a fail-
knowledge of English, but when a would-be
speculator comes along their vocabulary is
limited to “five hundled pongs’’ (£500).
which is their general minimum for a four-
acre claim with rights to dam sites and
water-races. Their knowledge of the mining
regulations and the cunning which they dis-
pla.\ in taking advantage of them are mar-
it cost the Y-Waterhole Co. over
±4OOO to buy out a few of them who had
squatted on the site of the main dam The
Mines Department seems to be oblivious to
the existence of the curse; one never hears
of these wrecks of humanity being called
mu° U wor k their holdings legitimated.
Ihere are hundreds of them who ought to
be removed from the tin-lands.
* * * *
Badak, the youngest of the Malayan shows
to get to the market stage, has livened up
on the news that monazite accompanies the
black sand of its tin patch. On top of this
Dews of the existence of this rare metal
comes prospector Orton’s boring chart.
1 lungs look so sweet that one Wilson is
to check Orton. Meanwhile the 00. is
doubling its share-register to get the cash
necessary to further prove the show.
* * * *
That illusive has-been, Sloane and Scotch-
man’s, Stawell (Vic.), has swallowed £18,500
tor plant. £7OOO for development and
on working account. As profits have been
shy, the load of debt has piled up ; £9OOO is
due to the bank, £7058 to accommodating
friends, and £2BOO to the Mines Department.
4'he grade of stone, instead of Gdwt., as sur-
mised from the pannings of the Extended,
the 132 and the diamond-drill stopes. dodges
about the 20s. mark, so an occasional call
has to be made to keep creditors quiet,
►seeing that in the big stopes tile shoots of
stone average 12ft. to 20ft. in width, samp-
ling anything from 20s. to 285., something
looks to be wrong when calls have to help
out the battery. Couchman wants funds to
get his battery going three shifts, so as to
put through a decent tonnage and reduce
the average of overhead charges. But the
lug problem is to find some way of saving
the gold that gets away in the tails. Oil
flotation has failed, so now the simpler
expedients of classifiers and slime tables are
to be given a chance.
Tambour Major, Bendigo, is on one of the
poorest sections of the field. The hill is a
mass of spurs, some of which were exceed-
mgly rich near the surface, but in bulk the
grade was low. In the ’sixties the Inde-
fatigable Co., working from open cuttings,
made fair profits out of Bdwt. dirt. Lan-
sells lambour Major shaft was sunk on the
old Agamemnon grounds. The veteran
thought so much of the prospects (in an-
ticipation) that he installed a splendid plant,
including a compound condensing battery
engine, which at that time was the largest
on the field. A few crushings failed to show
payableness and the mine was abandoned.
Ihe local men who now own it have had
4dwt. returns from a large formation, and
these they think justify a battery.
“Jackar”: Re Bendigo Amalgamated. As
o/i/w»n e J^ ent that “Bendigonian” (B.
-/10/lJ) and I are at total variance as to
tacts and promises it would be purposeless
to make such reply as would provoke further
contioversj, but I cannot help admiring the
cheery optimism which pictures the Con-
stellation gold shoot extending from the
present face 800 feet to the north, and which
foresees the opulent time when “the profits
are so substantial that they will enable the
co., first, to establish a satisfactory reserve
hind, and. then to enter the dividend list.”
lhat realisation of Dyason’s dream would
be well appreciated by all mining men. I
must challenge “Bendigonian’s” assertion
that it the Constellation profits were distri-
buted under the old system they would be
applied to enterprises, many of which would
have hut little connection with mining.”
ihis does not accord with the recognised re-
putation of Bendigonians, whose special
torte has been that almost to a man they
have applied any surplus earnings to efforts
to advance. the industry. Time was when
every working miner put every penny that
he could spare into his fancy mine, it' was
almost the same at Charters Towers. The
£™ overy the Constellation bonanza at
600 feet supports a. contention on which I
remember Dyason laying particular emphasis :
that in the craze for deep-sinking which pre-
vaded some 30 years ago proper prospecting
ot shallow zones might have been neglected.
Central Blue is another case in point. .
* * * #
A concession on the osmiridium field, on
the Savage River (Tas.), has at last been
secured, despite considerable opposition from
the diggers, and an extensive claim has
been granted to Guy Wood and party. A
dOUft. tunnel is to be driven, deflecting the
river, and thus exposing a stretch of about
half a mile of wash, considered to be deep,
high-grade ground, both for gold and osmiri-
dium. The old Specimen gold reef is sup-
posed to cross the sgur into which the tun-
nel is being driven. Wood and Adams find
the cash, but their party is to work on co-
operative lines.
* * * *
Gyrnpie is still able to hand out small
divs. occasionally. No. 4 N. Phoenix,
after crushing 219 tons for £1704 in August,
distributed a sixpenny. Columbia Extended
crushed 230 tons for £1473, and paid 2d.
per share. The Scottish Gyrnpie, though
still the big show on the field, employs now
only about 60 men ; 1600 tons were treated
during August for £1969, compared with the
old six or seven thousand tons.
About 100 miners are now working on
the Stuart’s Range opalfield, 130 miles
north of Tarcoola (S.A.), and some nice
stone is coming down. S.A. Geologist Ward
has reported favorably on the field, but lack
of water is still a dreadful handicap.


A POOL AND HIS POLLY.
CITIZEN: “Your children are short of bread, sugar and sundries? Well, there’s a fellow over there who would hand ’em over but you keep him out work."
STRIKER: “Well, dammit, ain’t I out of work, too?"


lot ,
J H C
->6/? y^epared-
ABBOTS
LAGER
( V%<? (/Drink l/our Duetts
%s.^i/15%ppreciato
5
25
O
6
£ B
a*
u n
Q
LJ
UJ C 2
a a
pq a
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
sd
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL I
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARHINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The curtain that has been falling on Alfred
Dealtin for nharly five years shut out the
last gleam of light on Tuesday morning;
and Australia then lost one whom it will
keep in almost fond remembrance. No man
who ever reached so high a place in
the public life of the country won such
general affection. He often disappointed
his friends, doing less than either he or they
had hoped for; but they knew that nearly
always when he failed it was because at
some point or other he had drawn back in
fear of hurting somebody. He had been
so thoroughly identified with the policy of
young Australia that most people forgot his
age: it is not easy to realise even now that,
it is more than 40 years since first he entered
the Vic. Parliament and 36 since he got his
first portfolio. Thenceforward he did
almost unequalled services for Australia—
first as a leader of the Protectionist party,
then as one of the great founders of the
Commonwealth. He was one of the three
draughtsmen of the Constitution: and of
them only Edmund Barton is left. After-
wards Barton and he shared the leadership
of the first Federal Government; and when
his old Protectionist colleague went to the
High Court, he succeeded George Reid as
Prime Minister. Outside Parliament he
made a brilliant beginning at the Bar. and
for years he was an Age leader-writer.
David Syme, of the Age, was the strong man
to whom he turned during the greater part
of his Parliamentary career. That was a
great combination —Syme supplying an iron
resolution; Deakin a gracious personality,
a charming platform manner, and a tre-
mendous capacity for filling others with the
enthusiasm with which he was able to inspire
himself.
“Chasuble”: Papal Delegate Cerretti,
recently of Australia, has been complimented
by the Pope on his
work at Versailles
Peace Conference.
An enthusiastic
newspaper styles
him the “Lion of
Rome.” It is be-
lieved that he will
shortly be given a
red hat, and there
are whispers that
he may succeed
Cardinal Gasparri
as Secretary of
State.
BRIG.-GENERAL
T. H. DODDS,
D.S.O., the new
Westralian
Commandant.
The first V.C. awarded in North Russia
was won by Corporal A. P. Sullivan, u South
Australian. With his platoon he was
fighting a rearguard action, and coming to a
freezing current the men used a narrow
plank to cross. Four of the bunch toppled
overboard and probably would have been
drowned or shot in the water but for Sulli-
van. He hopped in and rescued the lot, one
at a time, although the enemy was no more
than 106 yards away and plugging in the
bullets.
Died last week at Chatswood, near Syd-
ney, Henry Hartstrange Pery, second son < f
the second Earl of Limerick, aged 76 years.
lie was not the first of his family to come to
Australia. In Governor Bourke’s time his
father, W. H. T. Pery, was a clerk in the
Sydney G.P.O. He had been sent out to
N. S. Wales with a request to his Ex. to
“look after him,” as he was "a bit wild.”
Bourke sent him to Norfolk Island with
Commandant Anderson. There he married
a Miss Seliaffe, daughter of a lieutenant in
the 50th Regiment, and had by her a son,
who became the third Earl. After the death
of his first wife, W. H. T. Pery married
again, in Sydney, in 1842, a Miss Horsley,
daughter pf Captain Horsley, of the 96th
Regiment, and she was the mother of the
man just dead. The father was a remove
away from the succession, but succeeded his
grandfather in 1844. When he died, the son
born on Norfolk Island had some trouble in
proving his identity. A birth certificate was
necessary before he could take his seat in the
Lords. There was no registry on Norfolk
Island, but after a hunt it was found that
Kerrison James, who had been Bishop’s
Registrar, had a copy of the necessary docu-
ment, and after considerable trouble the Earl
took his seat.
"Jermyn Street”:—
Justice Pring, of N. S. Wales, can always be relied
on to fake the typical, provincial or chapel attitude.
During the Wheat Inquiry in Sydney it was elicited
that the Minister for Agriculture (W. C. Grahame)
"frequently went to the races.” Whereupon Pring:
“I think this has gone far enough, Mr.
AN EMBARRASSING SITUATION.
Senator Bakhap suggests that the Prince of Wales
should marry a discolored woman.
ALTOGETHER: “Fancy meeting you!”
Curtis. Any respectable person will say at once
that it is not a very nice thing for a Minister of
the Crown to attend races week after week.” And
yet all through the history of racing it has been
done not merely by Ministers, hut by the most
eminent Judges. Lord Russell of Killowen, when
Lord Chief Justice of England, raced every Saturday
of his life. He was to be seen not only on the
classic courses, but at such places as Alexandra
Park and Gatwicks, the Moorefields or Canterburys
of England. Lord Brampton (Henry Hawkin, K.C.)
never missed a meeting of any importance, and would
often adjourn his Court half an hour early to catch
a race-train. Bucknill rode regularly in-Hunt Club
steeplechases up to within a year of so of becoming
a Judge, and he was to be seen at every meeting
round London afterwards, as was Sir Edward Clarke,
K.C., when he was Attorney-General of England. All
these men were free bettors, more especially Russell.
The present Lord Chancellor of England attends every
big meeting and many small ones. Until recent
years Lord Rosebery did the same, and never more
so than when he was Prime Minister of England.
The Crown itself attended the races week after week
in Edward Vll.’s day; and it wagered in no nig-
gling fashion, either. As Prince of Wales Edward
got the tip about Jeddah, the 1898 Derby winner,
from J. AV. Larnach, and hit the books up for a
fortune.
South Aus. has lost its oldest lawyer, W.
H. Benham, who was born in 1833. As a
chemist’s assistant in England, he was a
friend of Charles Dickens and Jenny Lind.
At 20 his health broke down and he came
to Australia. He started to earn a crust here
as a shearer and drover. From those rough-up
days he came to the courts. Deafness, the
result of an early illness, handicapped him.
He gathered an old family practice in the
Kapunda district.
President Woodrow Wilson, seriously pros-
trated by an attack of nervous exhaustion
and weakness, has his 63rd birthday waiting
for him on December 28. He was born at
Staunton. Virginia, in 1856.
Frank Laver, who went Beyond recently,
entered the Vic. Civil Service as a youth at
£BO a year, and was for some years an assist-
ant clerk of courts. At one time he was in
the Liquor Licensing Court. To be a chief
clerk of courts was then the height of his
ambition, but later he found business out-
side more attractive and got to it.
Taking advantage of the opportunity
offered by the Supreme Court Judges’ Pen-
sions Bill, Prendergast, Labor leader in the
Vic. Assembly, had a tilt at Irvine, C.J., for
taking at 60 years of age a job
which, on retirement, will entitle him
to £l5OO a year’. Irvine, he declared,
had fought for a reduction of the old-
age pension when the State was the
payer and he was a legislator entrusted with
responsibility. Prendergast has never for-
given Irvine for the Railway Strike Suppres-
sion Bill (1903). So that the original text
of that measure should be embalmed for all
time in Hansard he read the whole of it
when the vote of thanks to Irvine was pro-
posed by Bent after the Iceberg got a seat
in the Reps. That was the occasion when
Anstey, then member for Brunswick, moved
that a copy of the Stiike Bill should be pre-
sented to Irvine with an earnest expression
of hope that it “may do him good.” There is
to be another innings on the Judges’ Pension
Bill, when there may be another nice "de-
rangement of epitaphs.”
Millen, Minister for Repatriation, leaving
for a holiday in Fiji, was presented with an
electric reading-lamp. It was an imported
light, like all Milieu's lights.
“Zoology”: Melbourne University Council
has appointed Dr. Agar, associate lecturer in
zoology at Glasgow University, to succeed
W. Baldwin Spencer as Zoology Professor.
Agar certainly had a
brilliant course at Cam-
bridge, and has done good
research work, but at
least three Australian-
born and -trained zoolo-
gists who applied for the
position had as good
’Varsity courses as he
did. and each has done
as good, if not better, re-
search work. Two of the
liome-growns are acknow-
ledged as authorities in
their particular groups.
Haswell’s text-book, for
instance, is used in all
the English universities.
Is this sort of thing
going to help Melbourne
’Varsity in getting the
grant which they are
asking Parliament for,
and which is * badly
needed ? Parliament very
justly can say: What is
the use of helping the
Uni. when, after 40
years, you are not capable of train-
ing your scholastic leaders! On the ’Varsity
staff there are only two Australian-trained
men as permanent lecturers. On the other
hand, Sydney Uni. thinks enough of Mel-
bourne graduates to make one of them Pro-
fessor of Pharmacology, and in Brisbane four
of the professors are Australian-trained. Is
Melbourne University Council another strong-
hold of the anti-Australian party?
Judge Poole, just appointed to the S.A.
Bench, was a fine athlete 20 years ago. He
was captain of the St. Peter’s College XI
in Adelaide, and later of Trinity XI in Mel-
bourne. He was also in the football team
of both, in the tennis team of Trinity, was
a fair lacrosse player and a fast swimmer.
J. L. Brown, who came recently into public
appreciation through his offer of some splen-
did home sites at Lithgow (N.S.W.) for
repatriation uses, is dead. He was born at
Cooerwull, a son of the late Andrew Brown,
a pioneer of the district. J. L. Brown was
one of the largest landowners in the State.
He was 78 when he took over his last plot:
Thomas Whitesides, who has just gone out
at Hobart, played for the Speck in 1862
against the first All England cricket eleven
to visit Australia. He was the first secre-
tary of the Southern Tasmanian Cricket
Association, formed four years later. His
score against Time was 84.
“1921” : “Dashing Cavalry Leader—He
Got His Chance.” Newspaper headings an-
nouncing the return to Sydney of Briga-
dier-General Chauvel. Did Chauvel ever lead
in Palestine? If so, where? The only in-
stance I know of when a brigadier led his
men into action was at Beersheba, when
Grant, of Queensland, with waving stick,
rode in front of the 4th Brigade.
Hoskins, the ironmaster, is giving £15,000
towards the erection of a Presbyterian
Church at Lithgow (N.S.W.), which is to
be a memorial to his son, fatally injured in
a carbide explosion some time .ago.
A number of stained-glass windows will com-
memorate other members of the family. One,
a daughter, was killed at a railway crossing
some years ago.
Dean Killian, the well-liked R.O Vicar-
General of the Forbes-Wilcannia (N.S.W.)
diocese, has been elevated to the position of
Domestic Prelate to the Holy See. It en-
titles him to wear the purple and to be ad-
dressed as Monsignor.
JOHN TALBOT, partner of Georgcson, one
of the principal witnesses in the Wheat
Commission.
Westralia’s deferred Rhodes Scholarships
have been awarded to Hubert Stables (1917)
and Keith Burton (1918). Both graduated
from Guildford Grammar and went after
Fritz’s scalp. Burton is a son ,>f parson A.
Burton, and Stables is a nephew of knight
Henry Barker. He won the University ex-
hibition prize in 1915 and was B.A. this
yea?.
Edward Pulsford, the Freetrade apostle,
dead recently aged 75 years, came from
Burslem in Staffordshire. He was the
son of a Baptist minister who drifted
into insurance work at New York.
Edward came to N. S. Wales in 1884,
and in the following year was ap-
pointed secretary to the Freetrade Associa-
tion. and held the job for six years. In
1895 George Reid appointed him M.L.C. lie
resigned the seat in 1901, when he was
elected to the first Senate. In 1903 he was
re-elected a Senator. He was financial
editor of the Sydney D.T. for a while,
and proprietor (1890-98) of the Armidale
Chronicle. He wrote largely on financial
subjects, and was author of “One Thousand
Noteworthy Australasians v ” included in
Webster’s International Dictionary.
The making of Villeneuve Smith a K.C. in
Adelaide at 35 has set the oldest inhabitants
digging up the age of promotion of various
clever counsel of the past. Kingston took
silk at 38, Way was 35, Symon a few months
under and John Downer seems to have been
the absolute junior at not quite 34. Symon
is by far the senior K.C. now living. His
appointment goes back as far as 1881. Paris
Nesbit (1893) comes next.
Captain William Campbell Thomson
(“Hurricane Bill”), recently retired from the
sea, differs much from the ordinary type of
coastal skipper. He makes a hobby of science,
and was with Professor Agassiz in his
explorations in the South Seas in the late
’nineties. He has a museum Of historical
curios at his Brisbane home, and has lec-
tured before the Geographical Society at
Melbourne. Thomson claims descent from a
Thomson who commanded a troop of Scottish
horse at the battle of Cullodon.
Chaplain Fred Wray, just arriving by
the Anchises, with a lieutenant-colonelcy and
the companionship of two Orders decorating
his name, is an old Ivyneton boy who made
a big struggle to carry out his youthful
resolve to become an Anglican parson. He
played against the English team of foot-
ballers who visited Vic. about 33 years ago,
and regarded the football ground and clean
sport as the best of training for the game
of life. After _ long service abroad he is
to take up parish work as vicar at Wan-
garatta.
An unusual letter of thanks reached Cap-
tain Butler, Adelaide’s one flying man, re-
cently. He has his hangar at Medindie,
which suburb is in the vicinity of the Dry
Creek Stockade. Butler, prior to giving his
public performances, often tries his stunts
in the vicinity of the gaol, and the prisoners
get a free show. To show their apprecia-
tion, and doubtless to encourage further dis-
plays. the canaries wrote thanking him for
providing a diversion above their monotonous
cagd.
TOM RYAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tudor’s all right in ’is quiet way, *but ’e’s not much
’eard or seen ;
But ’ere’s the lad who will earn 'is pay when th’
wigs are on th’'green—
A trampin’, stampin’ son of a gun with plenty of fire
and noise,
When ’e gets to ’Ughes there’ll be some fun for th’
rorty Labor boys.
Tom’s a man with a stiffinin’ punch, an’ ’e don’t care
where it lands ;
'E could eat a ’Ughes each day for lunch, and ’e
sounds like two brass bands ;
’E’ll promise the moon to Dad and Mum, and chuck
in the stars as well—
He’s up on the stand with the Labor drum, and he's
going to give it ’ell.
N.S.W.
BILL BOILER.


wid
i
l
\
a
m
m
3?
<£
imuuu
»mi
iiswftWttti
OW come the days when it is good to fling aside your coat and enjoy the
I luxury of shirt-sleeve coolness and comfort. But that brings up the question
1 N of your shirt wear—its seemliness and quality, as well as its ease.
“Austral” Golf Shirts mean everything to you in the matter of comfort and
appearance. A fine range of patterns and designs provide a wide choice.
One fine feature of “Austral” Golf Shirts is a reinforcement, by means of a
special underlining at neck, which protects the shirts against the wear of stiff-dressed
collars and the hard usage of repeated laundering.
Absolutely fast colors are particularly
hard to secure, nowadays, and the fact that we
guarantee the colors of these shirts to be
“absolutely fast” makes them additionally
desirable. They are made of fine English
Zephyr, of excellent quality, with stiff neck-
bands and soft double cuffs. The colorings
include blue, black, helio and brown on white
grounds. A soft collar to match, with vertical
stripes and button fastening or eyelets is in-
cluded with each shirt.
PRICES: 13/6 each, 3 for 39/-
The prices of these Golf Shirts of fine
English Zephyr of medium weight is decidedly
attractive. In either of the two qualities the
effective appearance, good cutting and neat-
ness of the designs are pronounced features.
The neckbands are of stiff linen and the cuffs
are double. Choice may be made of neat stripe
effects, which include blue, black and helio-
trope colorings and plain shades of blue and
grey. A soft vertical stripe collar with tape
and button fastening is included. Two
qualities.
PRICES: 8/6 each, 3 for 24/6.
11/6 each, 3, for 33/-
We are showing a fine range of Cambric
Golf Shirts that are very pleasing. This is a
splendid every-day line, quite apart from the
sporting purpose for which they were origi-
nally devised. As usual in our Golf Shirts, the
neckbands are of stiff linen and the cuffs are
double. Available in neat checks, fancy
stripes and diagonal stripe designs in blue and
black colorings. We can strongly commend
these shirts to the attention of those who
value appearance with comfort.
PRICES: 10/6 each, 3 for 30/-
Many people prefer Shirts of Silk to other
materials, and we confidently direct notice to
these fine Golf Shirts of Fuji Silk of special
quality. This material withstands the hardest
wear, and preserves its smart, fresh appear-
ance. These shirts are very popular and
buyers benefit from our extensive purchases
of silk materials which forestalled the effects
of rising prices. These shirts may be had in
the natural shade or in stripe effects. With
each shirt is included a loose Peter Pan collar
to match.
PRICES: 35/- each, 3 for 102/-
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is allowed Returned
Soldiers in Uniform, on all Cash Purchases of £5 or over.
Orders Delivered Free in City, Suburbs and Country.
GoWING C)RQ3 [id
EVERYTHING FOR MEN’S AND BOY’S WEAR,
484-490 George Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade
Branch Shop at 304-306 George Street (near Hunter Street)
4


A Modern Philosopher, Lecturer and a Great Student writes that Clements Tonic
is certainly a Medicine for the Tired Brain.
Li 1
THE REVEREND GEORGE WALTERS has had a long and active career as a
Minister of the Unitarian Denomination, as a student of modern philosophy and
Science, and as a literary critic and dramatist.
His church work extends from Lancashire and Aberdeen, United Kingdom, to
Melbourne and Sydney, Australia. He is author of the dramatic works,
“Joseph of Canaan,” “Thou Fool,” and “Empire,” or the “Tragedy of Maxi-
millian in Mexico.” He has also been President of the Shakspeare Society of
Ivew South Wales, and is an active member and vice-president of the Dickens
Fellowship.
The following letter should be read by all students and members of the Literary
Societies of New South Wales with exceptional interest: —
CLEfIENTS TONIC LTD.
“ I have much pleasure in testifying that I have, at various times, derived much benefit from taking
Clements Tonic.
“ When feeling * run down and in need of ‘ winding up,' or when suffering from brain-fag and nerve
strain, a short course of Clements Tonic has invariably brought relief and consequent re-invigoration.
“ It helps one to say (with little ‘ Pippa,’ in Browning’s poem):
“ ‘God’s in His Heaven; all’s right with the World.’ ”
“Mosman, Sydney, September, 1918.” “(Signed),
If any greater proof is required of the powers of this splendid medicine, the testi-
monies given afford it, written by those who can well afford by experience to judge of
its merits. For the general good of the public they are published, and are well worth
reading by everyone.
f
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND TO YOUR CHEMIST OR STORE FOR IT TO-DAY. IT IS AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN.
the
Society “Catering Functions” are regularly carried out by
the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
Society
PIENEOLD'S
WINES
The scandalous method of electing Mel-
bourne’s Gaud Mayor will be repeated to-
day (October 9). Weeks ago Charles Atkins
shamed the Council into consenting to choose
a Gaud by secret ballot on the day preced-
ing the election, so that when the formal
non-secret ballot came to pass the Fathers
might record a unanimous vote for the sake
of appearances. The apparent acceptance of
this proposal was supposed to have settled
the question of how to avoid the annual dis-
play of vulgar temper in the Chamber when
the name of the coming Gaud Mayor is an-
nounced. But it appears that few of the
dignitaries are willing to renounce the cus-
tom of washing dirty linen d’intrigue in
public. A few days ago Cr. Atkins put in
a proposal that the secret preliminary ballot
YES, ESPECIALLY.
“A girl has little respect for a man who
threatens to kiss her.”
“Yes, especially if he doesn't make good.”
should be exhaustive, thereby abolishing the
system of individual nominations for the
G.M. billet. The name of every councillor
would figure on the voting paper, and each
of them would put his tick against the name
of his choice. This proposal moved some of
the conservatives to fury, and in their fury
they were candid. No secret ballot for
them. They were not going to attend any
meeting on October 8 in order to smooth
the way for a unanimous formal vote on the
9th. In short they had nearly all deter-
mined to defeat the purpose of the secret
ballot by staying away from it. So, unless
the slippery old tacticians have been born
again in the meantime, there will be a lively
contest for the Gaud Mayor Stakes. Half
a dozen well-conditioned mules are spoken of
as probable starters.
At the Sydney Eight-Hour banquet on
Saturday night:—
The. Rev. A. Rivett asked the workers to assist the
clergy and the parsons to get better conditions. What
was wanted was a strike of clerics.
Fond illusion that 20th century humanity,
bored stiff with strikes of every sort, would
blink an eyelid at the threat of a clerical
strike! There are certain workers in whose
hands the strike weapon turns to putty. For
instance, barbers. Anyone can shave him-
self, and, at a pinch, get his hair cut at home.
The public would view a washerwoman's
strike with indifference. Also an actors’
strike, which would have many features in
common with a strike of parsons. The cleric
lost his power in this respect wffien he sub-
mitted to such things as marriage before a
registrar, lay ministration, and burial by
unordained persons. It was otherwise in
the Middle Ages, when, as a result of
a general strike of clerics —the ex-
communication of a State—the dead lay un-
buried in the streets and children went un-
baptised. It is difficult to think of a more
futile enterprise than a clerical strike—
unless, indeed, it be a strike of missionaries
to the overseas heathen.
* * * *
“He”: The best intentions lead frequently
to the worst results. The persons who left
a baby in a basket-hamper on the steps of
a hospital in Maclean (N.S.W.) over a
year ago, lined the basket with brown paper
in order to keep it warm. So warm was
the interior kept that the infant, which had
a five-pound note pinned to its clothes and
showed evidences of having been well cared
fox, died of suffocation. ?sow T , 14 months
luter, a man and woman have been arrested
on a charge of manslaughter. If the
proper sort of foundling homes existed Aus-
traha would be richer by a possible Prime
Minister, and two unhappy people would not
be facing a jury.
* * * *
H.M.”: Re mention in The Bulletin of
the need for legislation to control aviation,
and especially to prohibit flights over cities.
,ni’ ei ic na , 0n «- have alreac, y ta ken action:
and French fliers who flew over London
o leach Hendon, where competitions were
being held, had their certificates cancelled.
when IX l? roU l id leVel will become exciting
when flying becomes general and joy-riders
ake up bottled beer and crayfish and drop
the remnants from 4000 ft. 1
Country p e d”: A _ few years ago some
citizens of Honolulu formed the
lan-Pacific Association, the prin-
aim of which was to bring the
1 acific peoples into closer business
and social relations, and so, mavbe,
avert international dog-fights. The
Ass. fixed on September 17 as Pan-
Pacific Day, as the anniversary of
the date (1513) when Balboa first
sighted the Pacific, whi.ch he
named the South Sea, as he stood
“upon a peak in Darien” in
Panama. [According to the Ency-
clopaedia Bbitannica the date
was September 25 or 26.] Seven
years after Balboa’s discovery Fer-
nando Magellan, the Portuguese
navigator, sailed through the
Straits between South America and
Tierra del Fuego and re-named the
sea the Pacific Ocean. Now the
Pan-Pacific Ass. has written to Vic-
torian Director of Education, Frank
Tate, desiring that the State schools
give half an hour on September 17
of each year to instructing children
on the aims of the Association.
Tate approves, and thus another
little extra is added to the teacher’s
load. Some Ass.’s take themselves
very seriously.
Adelaide doesn’t know what to do about its
horse-killing maniac. He doesn’t seem to
be a maddened punter, for he doesn’t special-
ise in racehorses, but goes for any sort of
valuable animal. He isn’t a meat reformer,
for he eats no horse. There is no evidence
that he is a blood-drinker for health reasons.
He isn’t a sordid skin-stealer and he seems
to aim at nobody’s horse in particular, so it
doesn’t look like private vengeance. Even
what fame he acqures is anonymous. As
likely as not he is a religious crank, the
Israelites being forbidden to keep horses: or
he may have a new brand of motor-car to put
on the market and be eliminating competi-
tion. Possibly some brilliant detective, dis-
guised as a steed and browsing in a paddock
may get him some night, and find him to be a
highly-esteemed merchant walking in his
sleep, or a cataleptic society girl, but more
probably the moth-eaten person will just fade
away.
“ J.L.” : Early one morning Fritz gave a
sector held by English troops a good
“shower.” The Tommies moved towards
THE GREAT NATURAL RESOURCES.
PROUD FATHER: “My hoy is taking an Art course, and he has drawn me.”
BORED FRIEND: “ Nothing! My hoy merely went on the land, and he has overdrawn me.”
Blighty, and the Diggers were sent up to hold
the line. One bloke discovered a bully-beef
case bearing some Englishman’s warning:
“Australians, you will take over this place.
You will soon he cooked like eggs.” The
Australian added: “It’s better to be cooked
than scrambled,” and then made sure that
the blister reached the absentees.
* * * *
From “Musings on Royal Commissions,”
by J.B.D.: —
In olden times men sought in divers ways
For that thrice-blessdd boon, forgetfulness.
Some drowned remembrance in laborious days ;
Some drank or drugged, with more or less success.
There is no further need to bear the thrall
Of strange medicaments ; or, like the ox,
To toil, since, these days, anyone at all
May find Nepenthe in the witness-box.
* * * •
A Sydney neurologist takes the case in
hand :
It is more than likely that President Wilson was
a sick man before he left France, but with the
obstinacy of his sex chose to disregard his symptoms.
The crisis was reached, when, after his exhaustive
work in Europe for 12 months, he was compelled to
enter into a strenuous campaign in America.
. When we are young we are furnished with a
limited amount of surplus nerve-energy, which can
be exhausted if conditions of life are unfavorable.
That was the case with our town troops in the
Great War, when from lack of reinforcements they
were forced to perform duties far beyond their
strength. A collection of nervous wrecks resulted.
When, owing to advancing years, the physical powers
are on the wane, the reserve nerve energy is quickly
exhausted even when no particular strain has been
put upon the bodily or mental powers. The inevit-
able consequences in the President’s case began to
manifest themselves in Kansas, when his doctor
stepped in and vetoed the tour. •On his arrival at
the White House, Drs. Stitt, Ruffin and Grayson held
a consultation and went into the purely-medical as-
pect of the case. Although the patient’s temperature
was normal, there were disquieting symptoms in
connection with the brain and nervous system ps
shown by loss of natural sleep, which is a serious
complication in functional nerve maladies. This
condition must have brought about the feeling of
weakness of which he complained on attempting to
rise on Wednesday, and which was referred to as a
collapse. When this symptom was noticed, the
attendant physicians called in colleagues who special-
ised in the closely-related subjects of neurology and
opthalmology. The nerve specialists would have to
examine the superficial and deep reflexes, note the
presence or absence of disordered sensation, investi-
gate the action of various muscles and their electrical
reactions, as well as any ocular manifestations of
disease that might be present. The ophthalmic
physician, after hearing the clinical history from
the physicians and the neurologist, would then pro-
ceed to make an examination of the patient's eye-
grounds. This would involve a study of the retina,
the optic nerves and retinal blood-vessels, which could
be seen with the ophthalmoscope magnified about 19
times. Any thickening of the arterial coats, or
flattening or other alteration in the shape of a
delicate retinal vein where an arterial branch crossed
over it, would be observed, and a useful conclusion
come to as to the condition of the other arteries of
the body, which, of course, are not open to inspec-
tion. With the ophthalmoscope, the presence or
absence of fibroid changes in the arterial coats could
be diagnosed. Such a meeting of specialists is an
example of “team work” which proved of so much
value in the war, and which will be the ordinary
form of medical practice in the near future. The
Americans ate far more advanced in their medical
innovations than Britain or its dependencies. After
examining the President, Dr. Dercum, a well-known
neurologist, expressed anxiety as to the patient's
condition, and all personal interviews were im-
mediately cancelled, even the King of the Belgians,
who was contemplating a friendly call from New
York, being put off.
All this goes to show that the bodily and mental
powers of the patient have been sadly overtaxed, and
that his condition calls for the utmost vigilance on
the part of doctors and nurses. If the malady takes
a favorable turn in the course of a few weeks, it is
not likely that Dr. Wilson will be able to attend to
his ordinary duties for some considerable time; and
any prolonged heckling or other severe strain will
almost certainly be followed by much more serious
consequences.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE WRONG SHAPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Basing his observations on the study of an artist’s
model in a scientific work, a recent medical speaker
said that the normal nude woman when viewed side-
on presented a “cocksparrow” appearance.
He preached of Phryne, Phais, all
The girls who held high festival
In garden, or in gilded hall,
Or grove so shady.
Of Helen at the Scaean Gate;
Of Cleopatra—Tony’s mate—
And many a dame of high estate
And titled lady.
I listened to his foolish rant,
Hut still my mind was adamant.
I said, “Old chap, I simply can’t—
I may be narrow—
But where’s your artistry and verve?
You certainly have got a nerve
To foist on me that pelvic curve
bike a cocksparrow.
“To pay your price I’ll ne’er agree.
The coloring is rich, I see;
Her hips are perfect, so's her knee—
Just like a Venus.
But hideous is that awful tilt;
Dumb witness of an artist’s guilt.
My wife would say she’s wrongly built—
‘lie can’t have seen us.’ ”
K.S.W.
G. P.


mwt
f
A
2?
£
<4
1 -i
n
1914
«S*
I
i*
as*
Si
1915 -6' 7 8
&
rs
s
YL
OR'
El
\?TV
2
< •:* ->:
£2
—I
k
**/•!
V\
>
"ft
!| lll i
5
C>
■Sg
su_
sa
m
Is.
RW
x 7
1
k
i
ir-
Hi
!«»■
«•••••••••••
I
8«
m
AT " HOME-COMINGS,” Weddings, Reunions, Evenings—on all the most momentous
occasions of great rejoicing—when there is a spontaneous desire for lavishly
bestowing intense pleasure, the PIANOLA PIANO, with an unequalled power for
creating happiness, comes fully into ft its own.” Then you especially see and understand
why this instrument so richly deserves its universal popularity.
For Dancing, Singing, Playing—
Music of grand quality in unlimited
variety is thus easily and instantly
available without need of effort or
special qualifications for producing.
PIANOLA PIANOS
Are Available in the
Steinway, Steck, Stroud, Aeolian,
Farrand and English-made Weber
Enlist the Pianola’s assistance for
your home entertaining. The new
Pianola Song Rolls are another
winning factor in giving to the
PIANOLA PIANO the pre-
eminence it is entitled to.
c Prompt delivery can be given to any address.
of £2O. Comprehensive Catalogue,
Silent ’’ Pianos accepted in part payment if desired, or a small initial deposit
giving all particulars, sent gratis, or special demonstration given.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, SYDNEY


PATON
Y
3
\J
10688
Ihe DrinK of the
Connoisseur —is
BRINDS
whisht
MILD
MELLOW
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor*
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“McNorth” : Silverio Caridad, the demented
Spaniard who shot and killed an asylum at-
tendant in Melbourne the other day, has been
responsible for one or two other exciting
episodes. About 10 years ago he appeared
at Port Moresby, and electrified the populace
by running into the middle of the mam street
and shouting “Me no robber!” He was armed
with a razor which he brandished wildly. The
native police threatened to mutiny on the
spot rather than obey orders to rush him.
The Spaniard made a bolt along the jetty,
slashed the razor across his throat and threw
himself into the water. Three police boys,
seeing that the razor had fallen from the
man’s hand, wore in the ocean almost as scion
as he, and they brought him up at once.
When his wound healed, he was transported
to Queensland. The vessel called at Thurs-
day Island, and Caridad was allowed ashore
under a guard for a walk. Suddenly he
broke away, cleared to a sparsely-populated
part of the town, broke into a house and
stole a rifle and one cartridge. Then the
fun began. The garrison was turned out,
and for the next two days search parties
were scouring the bush. Caridad surren-
dered at last, with the cartridge unused and’
no damage done. But there are plenty of
Thursday Island people who will never forget
the scare he gave them.
* * * #
“Good Australian” : In San Francisco the
Y.M.C.A. works in friendly rivalry with the
Y.M.H.A. for the welfare of soldiers and
sailors. The Young Men’s Hebrew Associa-
tion was most active during the week when
the new Pacific fleet arrived, entertaining
the “gobs” as Yankee sailors are locally
called. A watermelon party with Motzos
A SOLUTION AT LAST.
THE PESSIMIST : “ Isn’t it terrible these men
always striking for more pay?"
THE OPTIMIST: “Oh, very terrible! But it’s
the Government. If it gave everybody
enough Peace Bonds we could all live
comfortably on the interest."
was an immense success, and to see 500
gobs stowing melon aboard was worth more
than the tax of £1 13s. 4d. which Uncle
Sam imposes on every outsider who lands
in the country. Next door to the hall a
Japanese laundry exposed a big sign “Wel-
come to our fleet.” Incidentally, why
doesn’t Australia charge an entrance fee
of £2? No stranger would regret it once
he had seen the only white man’s continent
on earth.
HOW SHOULD SHE KNOW?
“George and I had a cold bottle after the
theatre. Do you think I did wrong?”
“How on earth should 1 know? Don’t you
remember yourself?”
Spealdng for the Peace Loan at Lis-
more (N.S.W.) the other evening, Harry
Lauder said, “A lot of you fellows have
mully pounds in your safe.” On someone
asking for the English of “mully,” the
comic laird replied, “It means ‘woolly.’ The
pounds in the safe have whiskers growing
on them because they have lain so long.”
* * * *
“L.”: Some months ago some of the sky
pilots of Ilobart were hotly denying a charge
by a magistrate that they could possibly take
more interest in the poor. Then the ’flu
came along, and the distress discovered
among the poorer quarters shocked the news-
papers. The worst of the distress was found
almost within hearing of the church-organs.
“Exile’s” remonstrance :—•
The Australian bureau hidden on the 30th floor of
a tower overlooking AVall-street, Jew York, and pre-
sided over by Trade Commissioner Mark Sheldon, is
a needless luxury. If the object was
to protect our Customs revenue by
learning the values of exported goods
on the spot, it ought to have secreted
two or three Customs experts amongst
shippers and pursued the recognised
system of commercial espionage. Very
few Australian travellers know that
the office exists. Braddon, as former
Commissioner, "secured a grant of
£2OOO to open a reception house for
Australian soldiers in Madison-avenur,
in the heart of fashionable New York.
It was called the Coo-ee Club, and
was rrin by a committee of ladies
more or less remotely connected with
Australia. Occasionally they cap-
tured a stray soldier and treated him
to “corfee,” cakes and fox-trots. It
will be sinful if this fashionable
chatter joint is given any more money
to keep open. It ought to be closed
with a bang. The Y.M.C.A. shoull
have been asked to open huts at
Vancouver and San Francisco to enter-
tain Diggers during their weary wait for ships. Any-
how, if for reasons of State not apparent to the
onlooker Australia must have an official agent in the
United States, he ought to be stationed not in New
York, but in San Francisco, where he might be
useful.
* * * •
“D.F.”: Macquarie Island, which the
Speck is willing to let the Commonwealth
have for £lO,OOO, w T as discovered in 1810
by Frederick Hasselberg (that’s his own
spelling, but there are six other ways),
master of the sealing schooner Perseverance,
built at Sydney and owned by Campbell and
Co. The island was “attached” to the Speck
because Tas. was nearer to it than N.S.W.
In 1890 Maoriland, forgetting, or not aware,
that it belonged to anyone, proposed to
annex it, but the Speck got ready to declare
war or something and the swoop was called
of!.
* * * * *
“Rox”: The Tasmanian Government got
a nasty reminder the other day that
its little quarrel with the B.M.A.
is still on. Since the Hospitals Act
was passed last year everything has
been going smoothly, and the general
idea was that the B.M.A. had been
beaten. But it still has a punch left. When
Dr. Sweetman resigned
the job of surgeon-
superintendent
at Launceston Hos-
pital, Dr. Ireland took
his place. Right in
the middle of the ’flu
epidemic Ireland con-
tracted the diseasie,
and as no Tasmanian
would step into his
shoes a doctor from
Melbourne took charge.
Evidently somebody
whispered something
in his ear, and he
promptly returned to
Melbourne. As the
assistant surgeon was
by this time ill, the
institution, with a
large n u mber of
p a tien t s, was left
without any medical
supervision at all. Ire-
land. now recovered, is
the only doctor at the
institution, as his assistant, having
also been whispered to, took his de-
parture some days ago. Now the sis-
ters and senior nurses have petitioned
the Government to have a conference
with the B.M.A. and fix tilings up.
They say that the one doctor on the
premises is so overworked that novices lose
lectures, and the interests of patients suffer.
The dispute at Launceston is over the old
question of the admission of well-to-do
patients, but at Hobart it is more compli-
cated.
“A.”: In July, 1917, when our division
formed the left flank of the Allied fine, the
higher command was anxious to know
Fritz’s intentions. A prisoner was wanted,
and a raid by a squad of the Black Watch
brought in an uninjured lluu. Headquarters
heard the news with joy, and the brigade
intelligence-officer, who prided himself on his
knowledge of Bosche, prepared a series of
questions. The prisoner was started down
from the front line in charge of a couple of
porridge-wallopers, and on a sergeant deliver-
ing him at lI.Q. a grey mass fell at the
colonel s feet as the escort released its hold.
“What on earth have you done to the man,
sergeant? cried the colonel. “Ah, weel, sir,
we juist gave him a wee tappit on the head
wi’ a tin hat as the beastie wadna come
quiet. Some minutes later the Hun died
in the hands of the M.O.
* * * *
"1921” adds his testimony:—
Every man of the A.L.H. who heard Allenby's
utterly unwarranted attack will endorse Gullett’s acid
comments. What Brig.-General Chaytor. of M.L.,
the best officer on the Palestine front, said to
Allenby in reply has not appeared in print. Allenby
had liis satellites, who copied his every mannerism
and trick of. speech, and one of his worshippers was
a general for whose glorification a book has recently
appeared. Four names will always be remembered
by the Australians. They are the names of clever
soldiers and brave and kindly men: Royston, Cox,
Meredith and Chaytor, the last named head and
shoulders above the lot. Then there was Colonel
Granville, who won Musillabeh, the great fight against
some of Fritz’s best, for which “Old Shovel” got
the D.S.O. Chauvel will only be remembered by the
First L.H. Brigade for his little speech on July 16,
1918. We had been under arms since dawn on the
13th, when we counter-attacked the Hun Asia Corps
which had broken the line. We had cleaned Fritz
up properly, capturing or killing most of him, tem-
perature meanwhile 120 deg. in the shade. All the
night of the 14th there was no rest, for an enemy
counter-attack was fully expected; but the monotony
was relieved by burying Fritz in the Jordan Valley.
There were some hundreds of dead horses also wait-
ing for the undertaker; but after three days and
two nights going, in the most damnable climate on
earth, 1000 ft. below sea-level, we were relieved and
had to leave the job to our successors. Never were
men so exhausted, never did I see such a worn lot
of human beings. Blood-smeared from wounds for
which they would not go to hospital, begrimed with
lack dust and sweat, haggard, swollen-eyed; thus
we came out of the “Valley of Death” and camped
after a long march, at Talat-el-Dumm. Every man
expected a long sleep—24 hours at least. But no l
Round came the order: “All men to parade,
with tunics and side-arms at 9.30. The G.O.C.
Desert Mounted Corps will inspect.” We were kept
two hours in the broiling sun until he arrived.
After briefly telling us how we had saved the day,
how the right wing of the army in Palestine might
have been turned and the Germans have retaken
Jerusalem—all of which we knew —he gave us half
an hour’s lecture on the crime of not saluting! Spent,
dazed, all out, some dropping to the ground, all in
a state of semi-stupor from what they had endured
in the last 72 hours, those who were able to listen
heard a spick-and-span oflieer, in an assumed Allenby
tone, threaten all and sundry with a total stoppage
of leave if their slovenly ways were not mended.
It seems incredible to me now that we endured it,
but then we were too weak to kick. The great man
ended his old-maidish performance by saying that
when in Cairo two A.L.H. men had not saluted
him. “They did not salute me!” This uttered in a
shrill voice, with a strong accent on the -me. He
had them arrested.
* * • •
“Lance’s” tribute:—
It is one of the strange thing’s in the healing pro-
fession in Australia that few, if any, of its most
capable members ever seem to have the slightest
desire to enjoy a merited “loaf,” by getting right
away from the major-operation list which they have
helped to diminish weekly for 20 or 30 years. When
the 60th milestone has been passed, which is re-
tiring-time at two of Sydney’s biggest hospitals,
these good Samaritans cheerfully offer their services
to the State Hospital at Little Bay, where they can
continue their life-saving work. This institution has
quite a notable list of honorary surgeons who in
years gone by made a name at the Royal Prince
Alfred or Sydney Hospitals. Amongst them are
Alexander MacCormick, C. P. B. Clubbc, Joseph Fore-
man and Ralph Worrall. The latest addition to
Little Bay -is E. T. Thring.
* * * ,
A touring Australian writes:—■
I used to think that San Francisco was the most
pub-haunted place in the U.S.A., but N’York has
hundreds more than S.F. The Pennsylvania, owned
by the big railroad eo., has 2200 rooms, the Biltmore
lias 2000, and the Vanderbilt has about the same.
During the last three months all these big, crowded
caravanserais have raised prices, alleging that, pro-
hibition having closed their bars, they must make
up the loss. A single room, with bath and lavatory
attached, used to be $2.00 per day, or rather per
night, because that sum merely pays for your bed.
You can get iced “waiter” for nothing by asking,
but that’s all. To telephone from your bedrocm
costs sixpence. Every time a maid or a page, a
waiter or a porter appears you are expected to pay
THE PRACTICAL GARDENER.
WIFEY : “Yes, it 'would be nice to have our
own kitchen-garden, dear. But can we
afford to buy all those plants and seeds?
We'll need the money for vegetables, you
know."
sixpence. As I said, $2.50 merely pays for your
bed. The lowest rate for a single room with bath
is $4. Let's change that from Yank into familiar
money. The £ sterling has dropped from 4.86
dollars to 4.30 dollars. Formerly a dollar was worth
about 4s. 2d.; now it is worth 4s. Bd. Four dollars
for your room is equal to 18s. Bd. for your night’s
lodging. Using current rate of exchange, a dollar
being worth 4s. Bs., one’s breakfast costs 3s. 6d.,
luncheon 75., and dinner 9s. 4d. That’s at hotels
like Menzies’, the South Australian or Hotel Aus-
tralia. What the rates are at hotels frequented by
rich people I can only imagine. Add it all up and
the total is 38s. 6d. a day, which multiplied by
seven amounts to £l3 9s. 6d. a week for what
costs £4 10s. to £5 ss. in Australia. There is no
opening for an exasperated Amurrikun to write back
and say I’m untruthful and ought to be selling
Bibles, because my hotel bills are lying in front
of me. I’m not saying that one cannot live more
cheaply in Noisy York, because one can; but not in
one of these huge, noisy uncomfortable modern
hotels.
THE SOCIAL HEAVYWEIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Matrons, faded beauties viewing, will insist they
need renewing-
New “creations,” operations, dentists, massage,
extra hair; <
High-heeled shoes to add more inches, corn cure
when the footwear pinches;
Hats and frocks and funny extras—things you
never know they wear;
Things to pinch and things to pad ’em; only drapers
know they’ve had ’em.
When they write the bill for father he would
rather meet with Death;
But his steel-bound matron passes, preens herself in
fourteen glasses.
Smirks and giggles, pants and wriggles, dare not
draw one full, deep breath.
She’s been painted, renovated, patched and powdered,
pressed like fodder,
Spliced and knotted and garrotted, scented, hooked
and swung away ;
Stoughton, yes, and Mr. Hodder yet will tell how
dad did dodder
To his tomb while men re-built her. Grief won’t
wilt her when he goes.
She will buy some corsets cunning—like a bale of
hay look ’ “stunning,”
Mourn a seasoY for no reason with a hanky to her
nose;
Edging tender' pars and solemn into Boudoir’s
social column,
Softly telling tears are welling—hinting widows have
their woes,
While the writers (awful blighters!) cry like
whalers, “There she blows!”
S.S.W.
KODAK.


: ; t »
t
m
4 SW
bJJ
m I
h
ii
IF I
:ri I
I? ? s n
UZZ
!m
£SS
: -V : r- : ' "V-
V,
F
■
V:
5S
r>.
4 *&v*l
.
H
«
®S
HI:
m
—-
sS£i-
PS
_LILI
L
m
1
ma
m
■
*
&&&
0
c
y
*
I
m
SKii
PS:
:
W^,
Essentially a Fine Car
The Studebaker Big Six has a luxurious fitting and finish and a rare beauty of
design that people turn to look at. The powerful motor is started easily and
surely. The big steering-wheel answers to a touch of the finger-tips. The gear
and brake controls are so well placed that operation is practically effortless.
It is a big car, with a masterful
individuality and an over-measure of
power, but withal so deftly balanced
and so faithfully constructed that its
upkeep is remarkably economical.
For driving anywhere and everywhere,
the Studebaker Big Six is the ideal car.
Its even-powered motor makes it as
much at home in the city street as on
country highway or mountain road.
You will find it worth while to call and see the
Studebaker Big Six—the car that includes all the
qualities of a luxury car, without the disadvantage
of inordinate cost of upkeep.
STUDEBAKER SPECIAL FEATURES: The famous Silent L Head Engine; the
newly-designed Gear Box, swung on a Sub-Chassis amidships; the Double
Thermoid Coupling Forward; the Hotchkiss Drive; the Silent Spiral Bevel
Differential; Scientific Weight Distribution and Spring Suspension; Magneto
Ignition; Leather-trimmed Khaki Hoods; Goodyear Cord Tyres throughout with
spare on rim, and Complete Equipment.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia : 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. • South Australian Branch : 1 Currie Street, Adelaide
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. fir M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston, North
Timaru,
Wanganui
dsf


I
iMg|P
UG
'tv'"'
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH
14
Hotel cle Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.5.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man, Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
King George IV
wiasstt
thcTOP-WOTCHSeatck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES- LINSEED OIL
“W.'R.P.”: Medicines for worms in horses
are about the most unsatisfactory of all veterinary
prescriptions, but an ounce of aloes given on an
empty stomach often removes the parasites. As the
sufferer is generally weak a little tonic mixture is
required, and I have found the following answer best:
Santonin, lioz.; white arsenic, 1 drachm; ferri-
sulph, 1-loz. Divide into 12 powders and give one
every day, preferably in a corn feed. When half
the powders have been given use the physic; then
the rest of the powders. By the way, early summer
is the best time for the treatment. Beware of the
knowall who advises a dose something like this:
Arsenic, 1 drachm; tartarated antimony, 2 drachms—
in a single dose. It gets the ascarides all right,
but the horse will most likely die from ulcerated
bowels, as long as 12 months afterwards, perhaps.
Once after 1 had heard that this dose had been given
to a nag I wagered that he would not live 12
months. When the animal died the owner had an
idea that I might have poisoned it to win the bet.
But a vet. settled that
THE PROFITEER HUNT SPREADS TO
THE SOUTH SEAS.
Hoki Poki, Monday Night.—An energetic
movement against profiteers is beginning
here. Many chibs, formed for the pur-
pose of suppressing the iniquity, are act-
ing in conjunction with the Food Depart-
ment, and the public is tasting some of
the benefits of their exertions already.
It is safe to believe that the number of
profiteers will speedily diminish under
this new system.
“Rolling Stone”: “R.H.P. (B. 11/9/’l9)
notices that the thinning out of native timbers
into shelter clumps sometimes proves fatal to the
trees left standing, and asks why. He instances
Bullivant’s Maragyle station at i’ooma (N.S.W.).
I happened to help to clean up some of the pad-
docks there, and I think probably the cause of
the standing, untouched tree giving up the ghost
is that the country is very highly mineralised, and
the rainwater percolates more freely when the land
is cleared and carries mineralised solutions to the
roots. Under natural conditions the poisonous
mineral would not be leached out of the ground.
Similar happenings can be noted around old work-
ings of deceased wild-cats, where mineral has been
raised to surface. It has often made me ponder
on the question of superseding ringing and scrub-
bing by stabbing the roots and injecting a poison.
“U.P.”: According to Captain S. A.
White, the South Aus. naturalist, another pest has
been imported. This is the black rat, which it is
thought arrived from Egypt on some transport.
These pommies have recently been paying attention
to the oranges in White’s garden. They make small
oiifices in the fruit, through which they remove the
pulp and pips. They are quite different from the
ordinary garbage-tin rats, as they build nests in
tiees, and sometimes use old sparrows’ cast-offs.
White says that during an examination of pellets
ejected by barn-owls he found many skulls of black
rats, thus showing that these useful birds are the
little beasts’ natural enemies.
T * *
“5.N.0.” : I was billeted with an old Bel-
gian and his family for some weeks, and was
treated very well by them. I got a parcel one day
contaimng several plugs of Australian tobacco and
gave Dad one. He thought it so good, after smoking
nothing but the French tack, that he used to chew
it, use an old paper for a spittoon and smoke the
dried residue in his pipe. He deserved the second
plug I gave him.
* * * «
‘Cowpunclier”: “Central West” (B
11,/9/ r l9 ) asks how t° prepare a greenhide for plait-
ing Tell him to do this. Peg the skin out tightlv
and cover liberally with ordinary household soap.
1 * Stand for a cou P le of days and then wash off.
Get 81b. coarse salt and lib. alum. Mix these and
crush into a fine powder. Rub well into the hide,
and leave for another couple of days. When the
skin begins to get dry take a piece of smooth
brick or size stone and rub off all particles of flesh
and fat, and continue the rubbing until the skin be-
bemfnnndft and . pllable ' Take up, and the hair will
be found easy to remove with any blunt instrument.
tlle sheep-dog champion-
] , lead off w ‘th two that belonged to
fallow Bros., drovers at Homebush (N.S.W.j 20
years ago. They had two black kelpies, either
which could take two or three jumbucks out of
any pen in the yards, work them through the
gates and across the busy Sydney-road and put
them in the bar of the pub. The Farlows won
many a bet from those unacquainted with the dogs
Another good worker I knew of was owned by
es Baines, a drover, of Parramatta. This dog's
star tnck was to work a chicken into a- bucket laid
that J I®' , ® ? Wner WaS 80 prou<J of this turn
that he had a photograph taken of the dog at
work the chicken a few yards from the bucket and
ln the «-«•*
(( * * * .
“Ashton M.” : I was coming in for a spell
after rousin ” at a run of sheds in the West.
1 hadn’t had a shave for a month, and at the first
town I struck I dodged
into the barber’s and
sat in the chair. In
comes a good style of
a tart and commences
to lather me. “Boss
out ?” I asked. “Oh,
no,” she replied smiling:
“I’m the barber.” I’ll
admit it was pleasant.
I wondered why women
hadn’t taken it on be-
fore. She wasn’t breath-
ing beer-suds into a
bloke’s dial all the time.
Suddenly I felt a bit of
a chip and says: “You’ll
want some tar, miss.” I
had a look, and bust me
if my collar wasn’t all
gore. She’d swiped a
wart off. Soon as she
saw- the blood she
fainted. That’s the best
of being a woman—you
can change the subject
as soon as anything unpleasant happens.
i( * * * *
75”: Three times in about as many
' weeks members of the Vic. Leg. Assembly have
likened political enemies to “slimy serpents.” What
brand of serpent (if any) is “slimy”? Those I have
met, both in and out of drink, have been as glutin-
ous as whipcord. Surely the honorable and learned
members were thinking of snails?
* * * #
t, , ' As a man of some experience
nil'! e o,“l V 'v P '” (B - 18 / 9 /’ l9 )- whose eom-
plamt is that his prad has worms, to consult a
rr!L Ve \ Worm-symptoms are common in so
many different horse-diseases that it would be dan-
gerous to give a prescription without interviewing
the animal The wrong treatment would probably
aggravate the worm trouble and ultimately result
m tetanus.
* * * *
«J <Se^ ex ” : Re Archie Meston’s article,
ihe Tragedy of Cedar” (B. 14/8/’l9), I live a
short hour’s walk from a place on the range
called the Old Cedar Camp. A fine broad road was
constructed through the scrub to this spot some
35 years ago, with bridges, box-cuttings, etc., com-
plete. Heaven knows what the cost was. Then
some 3,000,000 ft. of cedar was carted out —and
left „to rot. The remains of the logs can be seen
there yet. The idea was to shoot then down the
hiountain-side to the Mulgrave River below, thence
to be rafted to the sea. The scheme was found
to be not practicable, and I don’t think a single
log went that way.
‘J.H.N.”: I have just completed a tour
through Central Australia from north to south, fol-
lowing the overland telegraph line. Breaking my
journey for three months at Wauchope Creek, I had
ample opportunities of discovering at first-hand just
how much nourishment a person can exist on and
continue working. All the necessaries have to be
carried to Wane-hope by camels from Oodnadatta,
about 600 miles. When I reached the Creel ; n .
MORE PUBLIC INTERFERENCE WITH PRIVATE BUSINESS.
MOSES: “The prigade seems in a terrible hurry."
IKEY: “ Yeth, anybody would think it with thomething therious.”
habitants, about 22 males, were trying to make ends
meet on a very limited supply of rations pending
the arrival of a long-overdue camel team. I was for-
tunate in obtaining a few pounds of flour, which I
think had accompanied Noah in the Ark. The weevils
were long dead, and, having become decomposed, had
changed the flour from its natural hue to brown.
When baked it didn’t matter much as far as taste
went whether it was eaten hot or cold—a very small
portion was sufficient. Goats averaging in weight
Irom 12 to 15 lb. were realising £1 per head, and
gohannas, like vegetables, were unobtainable. Whilst
on Gallipoli I often used to growl about the pro-
visions dished out to us, but I have eaten worse
since I came home —much worse. Any idea when
the next war starts?
* * * *
“Merops”: The animals described by
FY7” (B. 4/9/’l9) are not true bilbies, though
often spoken of as such. The bilbv is a ver3 r rare
beast, about twice the size of a bandicoot, with a
long narrow head and sharp nose. It has ears like
a hare, and runs like a rabbit. The fur is long and
soft, and bluish-grey. He is a very shy creature,
and goes abroad only at night. I have seen only
two in the three years I have lived in the family’s
neighborhood. An animal known as buk buk, often
mistaken for the bilby on account of its cry, was
plentiful in the Paroo country in 1884.
* * * *
Gape Pork ’: In Cape York Peninsula,
whilst acting as stock inspector, I went through a
mob of cattle travelling from Fernvale to Mount
Garnet. The outfit consisted of a full-blooded abo-
riginal, Taylor; Maria, his offsider, a full-blooded
gin, riding an outlaw, in a pair of moleskins; and
two other blacks. The mob was a mixed one of 750
head, cows, calves, steers and a few bulls. On in-
quiring for the boss Taylor informed me that he
was the boss, and on producing his way-bill he had
to unwind some dozen yards of dirty-looking , lace
material, which 1 recognised as—but it doesn't
matter about that. Taylor handled the mobs with-
out loss, a job few white men would manage in that
country.
*
‘ Mannamead” : In Popular Science Sift-
ings, published in London (July 22), it is stated
that “the Australian black gives the weight of his
better half in butter,’’ meaning that to secure a
wjfe black brother is willing to pay her poundage
in cow grease. Perhaps the leg-pulling Digger who
introduced his lizard run to the Cockneys is respon-
sible for this.
* * * *
John ’ : Another fine rough-rider was
Charlie Armstrong, Melba’s husband. He could sit
the roughest of ’em. He was about the best
amateur boxer, too, that Australia possessed in the
days of Peter Jackson. I remember seeing him give
George Powell a rough time in a small ring at a
race-meeting in N.Q. After that he was barred by
f, 1 * pug ' 3 ‘ He was the flr st man to ride
Buffalo Bill s” horses in an ordinary saddle This
performance took place in England.
“Jobber’: It didn’t need a war to show
that men who have lost a limb can train the other
to do wonders. An old cobber of mine was “Sosso”
Jones, late of Colo Vale (N.S.W.). He had his
right arm blown off at the Shoulder, and although he
was middle-aged when it happened one would have
thought that he’d been without it all his life. At
milking he could equal the best of us. I’ve had him
holding logs up to me at the circular-saw bench. With
a maul and wedges he was in class A, and I’ve been
On the opposite end of a crosscut ail day with him.
Gardening was his long suit. Another one-armed
man I knew was a teamster in the Warrego country
(N.S.W.). He came to Lower Lila one year with an
eight-horse, waggon, and I watched him unyoke his
team and yoke them up next morning, no one help-
ing him in any way. I shouldn’t have cared to be
in the road of that swinging stump of his. It was
flying in all directions. Then he helped put the
wool on, tied the load and hit out for Bourke.
* * * *
“Mountain Bred”: The corn-fed horse can
tire the brumby out if the right man is in the
saddle. When you sight your brumby sneak as
close as you can,. and the instant he lifts his head
go hell-and-all after him. On getting alongside
him, pull your lid off and belt him as hard ami
fast as you can. If you haven’t the halter on
him inside ten minutes just retire and say to your-
BREAKERS AHEAD!
THE RETURNING PRODIGAL ( on arrival home
at 4. a.m.): “Hush, Bilgewater! Wot's
that buzzin ’ noise?”
THE COMFORTER: “Shounds as if yer missus
'ad joined the mosquiter fleet, an' was
(hie) preparin' fer action."
self: “I’m no brumby-chaser.” Any decent horse
can outdo a brumby if he is properly ridden. Give
your mount a night in the yard without feed, get
to business about 10 a.m., and once you start the
wild prad on on account let him get second wind.
If you do you can chase him across the continent
and then he’ll beat you.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE SHEEP-MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When she goes home —I know how it will be —
She’ll be content with city life again;
But one fine day in Melbourne she may see
Some sheep for market, or a cattle-train ;
Then she will turn her thought to New South Wales
And see the sheep-trucks roaring on their way,
The empty guard’s-van rocking down the rails,
And, in the door, a man they call McKay.
When she goes home —of course she will forget.
But when the storm-clouds over Melbourne sweep
She may just wonder if the plains are wet,
Or what the roads are like for travelling sheep.
And, if the city roofs are swept with rain,
Some night when she is weary thoughts will stray,
Until she sees a sheep-camp on the plain,
And by the fires a man they call McKay.
N.s.w,
McENSAY.


SPORTING NOVELS
in the
"Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels
ONE SHILLING each; Is. ljd. posted.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls throughout the Commonwealth.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Great Stories.
Australia’s Most Popular Sporting Novelist.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.” “GAMBLER’S GOLD.”
“RUNG IN.” “UNDER A CLOUD.”
“THE SPORT FROM HOLLOWLOG FLAT.”
“A ROGUE’S LUCK.” “OVER THE ODDS.”
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.” “UNDER A CLOUD.”
“THE WHITE CHAMPION.”
By DON DELANEY.
“THE CONVICT PUGILIST.”
By GEO. COCKERILL.
“IN RACING SILK.”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“EROS! EROS WINS!”
By F. AGAR.
“WOLAROI’S CUP.”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“MYSTERY OF THE BOXING
CONTEST.”
By BERT JAMES.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE.” By CON DREW.
A great story of sporting “crooks.” No racegoer can afford to miss this volume of
close-packed humor.
Hundreds of thousands of these sporting novels have already
been sold.
Write for Complete Catalogue (free) of
OVER 100 AUSTRALIAN SHILLING NOVELS
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
9
Wearers Enthusiastic!
LEVIATHAN
TAILORING
The “Quality” Suit
£7171-
(TAILORED-TO-ORDER).
You can have indigo-dyed
navy serge or black. If you
prefer tweeds we are offering
“ALL WOOL” Superior
Tweeds in the new shades
of grey and brown.
PLEASE WRITE FOR PATTERNS,
TAPE, AND HOME MEASUREMENT
CHART.
“ Taffatwill ” <Reg<u Shirts.
Here is the Shirt for Wear —
“TAFFATWILL”
Fitted with reinforced inlay fronts, special
sleeve lifts and split sleeves. Made in grey,
blue and black stripes on rich cream grounds.
Three styles of wristbands, stiff, soft double,
or wristbands.
Size 13in. to ISin.
Neckbands.
10/6
(Three for 30/6.)
State size of collar worn and cuffs preferred
when ordering.
Returned men allowed 10% discount.
rv
s:
m
w
Order by Post.
We Pay Carriage
dsf
dsfds
f
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
?/-V :
?■
11l
f]
'
mM
m
m
■
■
m
m
m
: Ki
:
m -
m
-
STEEL
CASTINGS
FOR
Copper and Iron
Ore Reduction Works
Matte and Stag Ladles .
Roll Shells for
Crushing Rolls .
Spares for Rockcrushers.
Cast Stee/ Lad/e for Mt. Cuthbert Mine, Queensland.
All Classes of Steel Castings for Gears, Trucks, &c., and
Mining and General Engineering.
Send your INQUIRIES with DRAWINGS and Full Particulars to the MANUFACTURERS;
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, VICTORIA.
Agents for New South WaIes—ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
Agents for Queensland—AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY COMPANY LIfUTED, Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


THE
DURABLE
TQADC riAQK
DURABESTOS
Tho I:SaSHS=i . K2SS:
DURABESTOS, the ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS and SLATES
has solved this problem for building the home with the very least of expert attention. ’
Any tradesman can erect a DURABESTOS Building. So sturdy so simnle that it ti, ,
year m and year out-flu* it to indeed •■The Durable,” because of it,
Booklets describing the method of walling and roofing with Durabestos, together with samples, post free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Manufacturers, *
Head Office: Baptist Street, Redfern N s w , - , , „
' S.w. Postal Address: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St,,
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
“Ess”: The demolishing of the so-called
castle known as “The Warren,” which was built in
convict times on Cook s River, near Sydnev, recalls
that N. S. Wales has at least one genuine castle.
It was planted in a wild and rocky region where
no one would think of looking for such an edifice.
It is the main residence on Yulgilbar, Clarence
River, and was built by the late. E. D. Ogilvie,
who overlanded with cattle from the Hunter about
1838 and took up Yulgilbar run when Binghi was
the principal squatter thereabouts. When 1 was
last there the manager was living in a house along-
side and the castle looked neglected. The big
place is the original of Wangooma Castle in “The
Squatter’s Ward,” published by N. S. Wales Book-
stall Co. One of Ogilvie’s drovers on that early
trip from the Hunter was Jimmy Cobbra, a Kamilroi
tribesman, who was born near Merton, Hunter River,
then owned by Captain Ogilvie, father of E.D.O.
Jimmy was 70 years on Yulgilbar, and died there
in 1908 at the reputed age of 99.
* * * *
Ashton M.”: During the big drought we
played cricket on the Balonne (Q.) with a ball
procured from the innards of a dead horse, who,
when alive, had licked up anything that looked
like fodder The ball gradually accumulated, hard-
ened up and eventually killed the nag.
HIS SPHERE OF USEFULNESS.
HE ( jealously ): “Look 'ere, Lil, you're mad
if you marry Fred. ’E’s a real toaster
—spends every lean the minute he gets
it."
SHE ( airily ): “Oh, I wouldn’t marry him.
But he’s a bonzer chap to get about
with.”
“Red Lily Dick” : I was out on the Roper
River (N.T.), just near the Warlock Ponds, where
Mrs. .Eneas Gunn wrote “We of the Never Never,”
and my job was to keep the camp supplied with
clean-skin beef. My mount was clever in timber,
but had a habit of tossing his head, so I had to
HIS MISTAKE.
NOTORIOUS GEOLOGIST: “I’m thinking, my
dear, that there arc some disadvantages
in this idea of our being roped together.”
HIS WIFE : “ Indeed — urn?”
NOTORIOUS GEOLOGIST: “For instance, if I
should fall I should drag you with me.”
HIS WIFE: “Oh, no! If you fall I will let
go.”
use a martingale. The custom is to gallop on to the
fattest cow, lay the rifle on her coupling and shoot
through the kidneys. That is most effective. I
had full steam on one day after a nice animal, and
just as I was passing a big tree the ring of the
martingale got over the buckle of the bridle rein
and pulled the horse fair into the trunk. When I
woke I found that the horse’s neck was broken. If
you see a man with two leather discs in front of
his martingale rings don’t say he is a flash coot
from inside. That coot will be what’s left of me.
* * * *
“Jobber”: “8.8.’5” par (B. 31/7/’l9) on
the dying out of abo. kings reminds me of a
dusky monarch who ruled over the Mayian tribe
Pioneer River (Q.). When I saw old Jimmy Fire-
away he was in a deplorable condition for a king.
The local Chinese gardeners had started him on
“twang” (opium), with the result that he was
down and out, and spent a good deal of his time
doing odd jobs for the Pongs.
F.N.T. : “Yairs,” said old Dad Billa-
bong, “th’ young blanker saved up th’ money I give
’im fer three years an’ then went orf t’ see Melbin an’
took 50 quid with ’im. ’E wuz away no moren a
weeker-so an’ ’e spent every penny ’e ’ad an’ on’y
come back ’ome with four-pun-ten.”
* * * *
“Enanemee”: Concerning Balbi, an occa-
sionally active volcano (10,100-odd feet above sea-
level) in the Bougainville district of New Guinea,
the Nassoi tribes have a legend. Plenty fella moon
ago big bad-fella snake he stop alonga grass be-
longa place. He bad-fella too much. Makem boy
fight plenty strong along other fella boy. Mary
she plenty cross, fight other fella Mary, and kai
kai. By-um-bye good fella tamboren he catch um
snake. He put big-fella mountain alonga top of
him. The head and tail of the snake protruded
beyond the sides of the mountain, and the natives
have it that the constant struggles of the monster
to free itself from the burden, though invisible
to the naked eye, are accountable for the earth
rumblings and strange noises.
* * * *
Tar win”: Let me in with a few bunnies.
At Terrinallum, near Camperdown (Vie.), a rabbit
drive resulted in the rather unsatisfactory total of
2500. A fortnight later on the same station they
did things properly and slew over 4000.
“B-ouragi”: A few years ago the great
villages of the Gulf of Papua specialised in the
art of painting skulls. Collecting the raw material
" as the main interest of the local warrior's life.
The skulls were carefully boiled by the hereditary
heod-boiler of the village and the brains removed*
these and the cheeks, etc.,
going to the artist’s larder.
A clay face was moulded
on the skull, the lips being
left apart to show the teeth
in a forced grin. Green
and red shell was then
fitted into the eye-sockets,
and a cocoanut-fibre wig-
added. The result, painted
a pleasing red and attached
by a coir thong to a
wooden image, was then
placed in one of the great
“dubus’ or clubhouses for
men only. Each image
might have as many as 20
skulls dangling from it,
and I have seen a dubu at
Goaribiri with 50 such
images. (This dubu was
500 ft. long.) The heads
were taken off —in those
days at any rate —with a
bamboo knife. Every buck
carried a couple of these
knives in his fibre belt —.
one for cutting up ordi-
nary tucker, the other for
“heading 'em.’’ The
operator just peeled a fibre
off the edge of the knife
with his thumbnail, and
no Glebe Island slicer
could do the ensuing job
in slicker style. For stab-
bing purposes a dagger
made of a cassowary or
human thighbone was
always carried. The
nobility and gentry had a
fascinating way of ever-
lastingly handling and
playing with this ugly
weapon while speaking to
or watching one. The
habit has stuck in my
memory. Humane weapons,
like Mills bombs and mus-
tard gas, were, of course, unknown to the poor
blighters.
* * * *
“Mulga”: What is the best Australian
wood for a mallet? I know a bridge-carpenter who
for an experiment made one out of a wild lemon-
tree 14 years ago. It is light, and is still going
strong.
* * * #
“Zanthus” : It is not only cattle that are
shaken up by the seeds of the zamia palm (B.
18/9/’l9). When Vlaming, the Dutchman, discovered
the Swan River, in 1697, some of his men ate the
6eeds of this palm, and as a result were “so sic
that they were like to die.”
“Eucalyptus”: I don’t take nearly as
much notice of back-country weather reports as
I used to before I called at the post office at one of
the biggest towns of sou’-west Queensland, and asked
how much rain had been registered in the 24
hours. A small boy at the counter informed me
“about 50 points.” I said, “I don’t want ‘about’; I
want to know the exact amount.” “Well,” he said,
it’s this way. The police here take the rainfall and
they said there was 38 points, but Charlie Sykes
measured 50, and a chap over the creek measure ! 60.”
When I asked him which would be regarded as offi-
cial, I was told that the 60 probably would be, as
Sergeant J. Hop reckoned the police reading was most
likely wrong, because they had a lot of timber
stacked around the gauge. What do you think of
it!
* * * •
“Septern”: Can any experienced Abo. tell
me a cure for strangles in horses? This complaint
is very common in N.Q. at present. Don’t tell me
“hot bran” or “Stockholm tar on the bit.” I want
some cure for horses running in the bush—some-
thing to put in the water troughs, for instance. f
“P.Z.”: Twin and triplet lambs are not
uncommon, but a few days ago one of our Border
Lelcesters gave birth to four ewe lambs.
Unfortunately both mother and infants
died. Last winter when ewes and lambs
were dying during an early lambing one
valuable ewe was unable to give birth
to her offspring. The boss’s missus, as a
last resource, persuaded her lord to cut
the sheep’s throat (in lieu of chloroform)
and then salvage the lamb. The opera-
tion was over in less than two minutes,
and the youngster is alive to-day, a thumping
“poddy.” Bush surgery deserves a chapter all
to itself.
* * ♦ *
“Oaloola” : For “W.H.P.’s” (B. 18/9/T9)
worm-infested nag forward a good bran mash to be
followed by a draught made up of one tablespoonful
of kerosene and one pint of warm milk. References
as to the value of this recipe may be had from
our old buggy mare who was a promising meal for
the crows last year.
“FY7”: There isn’t any recipe for curing
a collie of rushing in and biting the sheep* short
of training a special sheep to bite him back.
* * # *
"Caloola”: Exploring in a gully adjacent
to Sydney I discovered a plant that lias set me
thinking. The stranger, about 2ft. high, had dark-
green, serrated leaves, and closely resembled a
miniature apricot-tree. At regular intervals along
the limbs tiny bell-shaped flowers of a dark-red
color stood out. I attempted to pull one blossom
to examine it, but immediately my fingers touched
it the whole plant seemed to collapse. The
stalks remained upright, but the leaves and flowers
drooped as if the vegetable had been without a drink
for a year. The next day I found it had quite re-
covered, but on touching a leaf the plant again
fainted.
“Papua ’: A queer fish is a rock-cod
which has palled up with P. H. Leigh, the diver
who bought the hull of the Menrie England, now
resting on the bottom of Port Moresby harbor.
Leigh noticed among the interested finny spectators
who followed him about the wreck this big fellow
that seemed quite devoid of fear. As the diver
worked the cod stationed himself alongside, idly
swaying his tail and fins to keep his position, in-
tently following with his bulging eyes every move-
ment of his strange friend. Wherever the diver
moved about the wreck his scaly pal followed him,
sometimes coming right up to the face-glass of the
helmet and staring at the man inside. As the days
passed the fish grew more familiar, until it allowed
the diver to tickle it with a rod or spanner, but it
would not permit itself to be handled. Every day
when the diver descended the cod was in its usual
position over the engine-room, and at the end of the
day it followed him up to the surface.
* * * ,
“Mulga” : Will someone inform me why
the Queensland Railway Department has declined to
take cypress-pine sleepers? Last year, in re-laying
the line between Yeulba and Roma, practically all
the old sleepers were discarded. Although the pine
sleepers had been in the longest, they were in a
better state of preservation than those of cither
ironbark or spotted gum. Incidentally, if Railway
Minister Pi he 11,v is studying economy, he might see
that all the old sleeper spikes are picked up instead
bf being left to rust alongside the line, as they
were in this instance.
* * *
Ani-o ’: Does any Abo. know anything
about crab-eating snakes? We have one in Papua,
known in the west as hopuini. The largest that
* have seen was about three feet six inches long.
I his reptile has a small, flat head and a striped
black and white overcoat. It makes its home in
mangrove mudflats. The other day I saw one
at work. He stealthily approached within a yard
or two of a crab-hole and remained motionless.
After a time a small crab came out of the hole,
and the snake moved quickly to cut off its retreat.
A MECHANICAL TRIUMPH, ANYWAY.
“Well, thank God, I’ve found out what was
wrong with her.”
Then began a ding-dong sparring match between
snake and crab. I intervened with a lump of
rock, but its weight merely ninioned the snake
temporarily in the soft mud. The crab crawled
into its hole, and soon afterwards it was followed
by its opponent. Dunno who provided the menu.
THE LOGGING TRAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where forests climb the lower hills
The engine murks the track-side grasses,
And, rattling by, the long truck fills
With echoes all the mountain passes.
It crawls along the narrow gauge,
Up timbered slopes whence creeks are falling.
It passes tall trees mossed with age,
Where magpies through the hours are calling.
It knows not paint nor cushioned springs,
It gives no heed to wind and weather,
But ever through the ranges brings
The great brown logs chained three together.
With fume and smoke, with fret and grind,
The little engine fusses steaming,
And twists round sudden bends to find
the mill with strident saw-blades screaming.
The bush-vines climb above the track,
The tree-ferns shake their curving frondage
Beside the long truck, making back
With mighty red-gums borne in bondage;
And sometimes by a rough-made dam,
Far back in scrub and grasses shrinking,
Bush creatures watch the logging-tram,
And marvel at the engine drinking.
Oh, man will build with beam and spar
Wide halls and narrow city alleys,
And nature lifts her temples far
In quiet hills and sylvan valleys;
Oh, man must go for that he lacks
Through wooded ways of fern-starred wonder,
With logging-trams up shaded tracks
To carry home his forest plunder.
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMERTY.


as
0
MI.
, \ t • ■ ..p
■
r . *
■ "vVSf . ■
1 - §1 :
k ■
ML ' . > ,
v,4i
V. ; V v';,
• ■
I%r,g; ;;
t?<¥'■ w u >sm ■
#
'. MJa
K9h
hi .
Dunlop Rubber Bowls
Bowlers throughout Australasia will be keenly interested in the fact that we have succeeded
in manufacturing a perfect HARD RUBBER BOWL. Its advantages will at once appeal to
all devotees of the pastime -and its adoption by bowlers will effect considerable improvement
in their play. This has been the pleasing experience of every player who has yet had an
opportunity of using the new Dunlop production. The BoWl is of Solid Rubber throughout—
as hard and fine grained as ebony, with a surface polish like glass! It is absolutely impervjpus
to moisture, heat or cold—a vast improvement on the wooden or composition bowls now in
use. It will not chip, crack, shrink or alter its shape or weight in any respect. Apart from
the construction of the Bowl,, there is no subsequent loading needed to bring it to correct
weight—thus ensuring an even balance*
It’s the most perfect and truest playing Bowl
yet seen on any Green.
The standard sizes of Dunlop Bowls are as follows:—5", Sfg" and 5j n Every Bowl is
standard weight and No. 3 Bias-full, unless otherwise specified. This work is executed
by the leading expert in Australia—and once stamped by the Association’s representative
will never vary.
Obtainable from all leading Sports Depots and Suppliers of Sporting Goods
£s§s®J: per 1 set (4)
DUNLOP RUBBER
108 Flinders St., Melbourne. 268-274 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
27-33 Wentworth Av., Sydney. 103-105 Flinders St., Adelaide.
116 Worcester Street, Christchurch.
CO. of Aust. Ltd.
67 King Street, Perth. 69 Liverpool Street, Hobart.
53 Cameron St., Launceston. 95 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
62 Fort Street, Auckland.
wm i
.
v *•
> ..
'
''a>-L
£ll
M i 1
• « -> Sn
/r* M
■v;il ■
f §; CgjflSk
) Wff: * |p|pli
■


Some Coughs take a lot of “ shaking off ”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
. HEAONCS
)(igwnii| c«
\ MO. U.
1
L-arfSSlff*
3$L ®
COLDS
COUCHS
CSPUP
LUNG
TEOUBU2
chest
AFFECTIONS
0
'a
sd
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
for good literature in the mind of a boy,
we do not tear up his penny-dreadful and
hand him Walter Pater. Instead, we give
him two or three blood-and!-thunders, and
watch him pick out the best. Similarly, it
is of no use to pout at the newspaper; it
knows what it is doing; and we shall have
better newspapers when we have better
readers.
ALAN B.
Verse and Poetry
Some illumination is due to “P.E.Q.” (B.
28/9/T9) as to my statement that litera-
ture, to live, must be “national, reputable
and recent.” I should have said that litera-
ture, to be classical, and to have a good
chance of survival, should be national, repu-
table and recent in style, language and
spirit. The word “national” is used as
against “parochial,” not in distinction to
“universal.” National literature may be-
come universal, but will always retain its
national characteristics. “Reputable” has
the same meaning here as when applied to
the individual—one would not uphold the
use of language of the gutter. By “recent”
I meant that nothing archaic should be used.
Many words and expressions used by
Chaucer, for example, would be inadmis-
sible.
The national aspect is the one which most
concerns the discussion. Clancy might have
been a drover in any land, but the fact that
Paterson immortalised him in the idiom and
sjpirit of Australia makes the poem which
enshrines him Australian, even though he
has become universal. When an Australian
poet sings of places beyond his shores, as
many have done, the songs are still Aus-
tralian, provided the spirit and language of
Australia are there. On the other hand, the
use of Australian names or jthe stressing
of distinctly Australian traits are not
necessarily indicative of nationality, nor
steps leading towards immortality. ' This
at least, is my interpretation of a ‘definition
which I had thought to be widely accepted.
If what I wrote read like a “dogmatic asser-
tion made with very great assurance,” the
result belied the intention.
WILL LAWSON.
Painter’s Property in Pictures
. The French Chamber of Deputies has de-
cided that an artist should have an interest
in his paintings after he has sold them—
that he or his heirs should draw from 1 to
o p.c. commission on prices got at the auction
sale of any of his works for 50 years. There
is justice in it. An artist is all the time
building up a goodwill; and without some
such scheme as the Frenchmen have adopted
other people get all the benefit of it. You
might say the artist’s case is the same as
a tailor’s: as the tailor establishes a reputa-
non his prices go up, just as a painter’s do.
-but there is this difference: the clothes that
? built in 1910 are of no greater value
in IJ2O to the man who bought them because
by that time the tailor has made a name
for himself. Unlike almost everything else
you can think of, the value of an early pic-
ture is enhanced in value by every better
picture the artist paints—and in some cases
they need not be better pictures either. This
makes the, painter’s position different; and,
in a general way of speaking, the French
plan seems the only one to secure him his
rights.
A Satchel of Books
The Law Book Co. (Sydney) has issued the new
Moratorium law in a handbook. Under the Act the
restrictions on mortgages, vendors and others im-
posed by-the War Precautions Regulations are ex-
tended till July 81, 1920—0 r longer if the Govern-
ment so decides. One part of the law relates
specially to members of the A.I.F. and their female
dependants. It shields them from the operations of
distress or seizure under bill of sale, writ of execu-
tion or what not in respect of clothes, furniture and
other necessary goods and chattels to the value of
EDITORS, BEWARE!
“I am going to have my revenge on the
editor this time !”
“How's that?
“I'm sending him this poem, and Eve
poisoned the gum on the return envelope .”
£lOO. This where the debt was incurred prior to
June 1, 1916. Also ft is forbidden to evict such
persons from any house, shop or farm so long as
they pay a fair rent regularly. No one desirous of
knowing his legal rights these grasping and profiteer-
lsh times should be without the booklet.
TAe Memorial Biography of Dr. W. G. Grace (Con-
stable, London) is to hand through Angus and
Robertson. Out of a bewildering mass of records
averages, aggregates, dates, famous (sporting) names
and personal anecdotes “W.G.” emerges as a sort
of vast, bewhiskered school-boy. Because of his
splendid keenness England forgave him his frequent
bad sportsmanship and worse manners; and even his
habit —since followed by hundreds in England, as
well as here and in S’Africa—of accepting cash for
his cricket services while posing as a lilywhite
amateur. Physically he was a marvel. He" made
<4 tor the Gentlemen of England when he was 58
and weighed 17st. He was a first-rate performer
at bowls, golf and cycling, and also a keen shot and
fisherman. At 65, when he weighed over 18st, he
Went regularly with a pack of beagles. He died aged
6 ' m October, 1915, as a result of shock following
on a Zeppelin raid.
Working My Way Round the World is a tale of
long distances and expended shoe-leather by Lena
M l ranck. She didn't go round the world, but
wutes the story from the notes of Harry A. Franck.
d ' d j J he . v Y orld ha d been travelled round be-
fore, and the job wasn’t absolutely crying at the
moment to be done again, nor did the world specially
select Franck to do it. He simply appointed himself
globe-trotter-in-ordinary to the planet and set out.
He is a moderately interesting person and carried
an expert camera.—(Geo. Allen and Unwin, London.)
People have hardly learned yet how to be humor-
ous about war characters, but Stephen Leacock makes
a good beginning with the Hohenzollerns in America
- 1S the Kalser > the Crown Prince,
Admiral Prince Henry of Prussia and Ferdinand of
Bulgaria are exiled, steerage, to the United States
under the name of Hohen. Along with them is an
obscure niece who tells the story. She seems a nice
girl and marries an ice-man, and is left in the
middle of hving-happHy-ever-after. Her story is one
of disillusionment. Uncle William in steerage clothes
looks suddenly common, and his habits, especially his
soup habits, when the habits are out of uniform
look common also. Without his trappings, and with
his moustache dragging in his food, his superficial
resemblance to himself is so slight that plenty of
people look more like him than he does. Even his
senile arrogance only arouses suspicion of his sanity.
He finishes as a pedlar in New York. Crown Prince
Willie finds his level as a thief, and the fact that
he bites a policeman when arrested doesn’t diminish
his sentence. Cousin Ferdinand throws off all dis-
guise, speaks Yiddish through his nose, and takes
instinctively to the ready-made clo. trade. Ferdinand
waylays the Emperor now and then while he is
peddling with his head in the air, and carries
away his savings for investment. Admiral Uncle
Henry, the one man of the family, courageously
studies canal navigation and becomes a barge-master.
He and the niece both stand by poor old Uncle Wil-
liam, and when he is dead they see him to his short
home. Altogether it is a logical account of how
the Hohenzollerns would naturally end if they had
come ashore steerage. There are other stories in the
book, all good, but “The Hohenzollerns’’ stands out.
(John Lane, London and New York.)
The Inky Way
A Parisian critic, Paul Reboux, has an
idea for making a book. It is an anthology
ot French prose and poetry, with each speci-
men. as unlike its author’s usual style as
possible. Title: “Whose is This?”
Gibbon, the historian, seems to have been
a true prophet as regards the Austrian
Empire. Talking of Fielding, the 18th cen-
tury novelist, he said :
w l as ° f the younger branch
of the Earla of Denbigh, who drew their origin from
the Counts of Hapsburg. The successors of Charles
the Filth may disdain their brethren of England •
but the romance of “Tom Jones.” that exquisite
picture of human manners, will outlive the palace
ot the Escunal and the Imperial Eagle of Austria.
Fielding, by the way, had no reverence for
his aristocratic relations. When the Earl
of Denbigh asked him how it happened that
he spelt his name “Fielding,” and not
Feilding,” like the head of the house, the
author answered: “I cannot tell, my lord
except it be that my branch of the family
was the first that knew how to spell.”
“Harrison O.” : Though Enoch Arnold
Bennett is frequently singled out as the most
remarkable example of industry among the
better-class English novelists, compared with
H. G. Wells he is a literary slacker. Wells’s
first book, “Select Conversations with an
Uncle,” was published 24 years ago, and his
present score is 56 volumes. Of these 50
are works of fiction—many of them of more
than average length, and most of them of
more than average merit; five are thoughtful
books dealing with social and educational
problems, and one a description of floor
games for youngsters. Bennett’s first book,
A Man from the North,” was published
two years after Wells had started, yet Ben-
nett has produced only 28 volumes of fiction,
not more than half a dozen being above the
level of potboilers. He has also written
eight plays, and two (including “Mile-
stones”) in collaboration; but the remain-
ing books' which make up his total of 51
were mere journalistic efforts of 25,000 words
or less. Both writers have a remarkable
facility for word-spinning, but the industry
of Wells (not to mention the fairly high
level he maintains) is one of the most amaz-
ing things in modern literature. He is
probably the most prolific British writer of
any account since Walter Scott.
A REVIEW OF REVIEUX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The new novel by William Le Queux.” —Any
newspaper.
Have you read the new novel? It’s thrilling,
And certain to be all the. go ;
Battle, murder, and cooing and billing—
The author is William Le Queux.
It’s a story that’s quaint and attractive,
According to all the reviews,
Though some hint that it’s rather protractive,
This novel by William Le Queux.
The hero’s, of course, fascinating,
The villain’s of inkiest hue ;
And the ladies —they’re all captivating,
When pictured by William Le Queux.
The plot is involved and fantastic,
The most harassing troublas occur,
Whilst the dialogue’s keen and sarcastic—
He’s clever, is William Le Queux.
He treats of the unseen and mystic,
The doings of spirits and spooks; •
All matters occult, cabalistic,
Are handled by William Le Queux.
The mystery’s deep and enthralling,
Sherlock Holmes it would surely perplex;
Iniquity really appalling
Is pictured by William Le Queux.
But the problem which I find compelling
In each of this novelist’s works
(I’m weak on this French way of spelling),
Is how he pronounces Le Queux.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Hobo”: Diggers returning via the Cape
plump for the Australian-grown ‘tinned
fruit. For quality, flavor and price home-
grown canned fruit is better than even the
best Californian brands. African stuff
hasn’t a look-in. On our trooper stocks of
tinned peaches, pears and plums were re-
plenished-at Durban. These, although grown
by nigger labor, were 2d. more than a larger
tin of Aussie fruit, besides being inferior
in quality, with a “tinny” flavor, due, I
suppose, to defective canning.
* * * *
The Henry Jones companies, the greatest
jam-makers in the Southern Hemisphere,
with factories at the Paarl (S. Africa) as
wefl as in Australia, are invading the north
Just before the war they were about ready
to start m California (U.S.A.), but put it
oil, and afterwards kicked themselves every
time they thought of the big war contracts
especially after U.S.A. came in. Now, how
ever they are getting busy with a big plant
\Y;of) C noo and ’-p I ? aljfornia - t 0 cost about
«J>ouo,ooo. Palfreyman, who was Henry
Joness partner in the original little factory
at Hobart, and who is still the man of
imagination in the show, is mainly respon-
sible for these overseas extensions.
*** ’ *
“Mr. Ocky”; At Geelong (Vic.) the
pathetic notice has appeared that the exten-
th® old Oriental Timber
liS foSS S f ed ,l- a cos * ot something
like i-(K),000 (including machinery), are to
let or for sale. The machinery is being
dismantled and sold separately. The mills
dosed down some time ago. They had a
hard fight in the days when Tudor was
Minister fpr Customs, always asserting that
they could not carry on without better pro-
tection against cheap foreign labor. But all
entreaties were in vain. They were told
they knew what the tariff was when they
started the venture. So they did, but they
did not know what wages and other costs
were going to be.
* * * *
“Fax”: In Melbourne the other day the
hairdressers decided to raise the price of a
haircut from Is. to Is'. 3d. Even the most
bartered persons rarely complain of a rise
in hair-clipping rates, seeing how hard it
must be for the average employer of shears-
and-razor labor to amass wealth in the busi-
ness, but the chairman of this barbers’ meet-
ing invited sarcastic comment by going into
details. He said that “recent rises in wages
and the increased cost of materials were re-
sponsible for the new scale of prices.” The
materials! There’s a printed cotton cloth
tucked under the victim’s chin, a pair of
scissors and a brush and comb, with a spot
or two of hair-oil, save when the shorn lamb
is a bald-headed party who doesn’t want his
head polished. His responsibility for the
wear and _ tear and consumption of these
materials is assessed at —how much?
THE MEN WHO MAKE THE MILES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They called for pewters foaming,
Two firemen from the deep;
As though dry days were, coming,
They drank them at one sweep,
And said, “We’ll do that neater
When we’ve had several more;
To-day the old blue peter
Is flyin’ at our fore.
By sunset we’ll be goin’
Away from beer and smiles,
A-sweatin’ and a-blowin’
And makin’ bloomin’ miles.”
“How do we make ’em, mister?”
The small one answered me;
“By sweat and burnin’ blister,
And language rather free.
On all the maps, I reckon,
You’ve seen the miles that’s thrown
About the ocean’s deckin’—
Well, them’s our very own.
The coves that measure distance
May boast of what they’ve done,
But us and our old pistons
Have made, them, every one.
“The Lord He made the waters
And shaped the whole dry land,
And gave to men fair daughters—
All that you understand.
And He arranged the sunlight,
And lit the streets and bars,
And made the moon the one light
To lead the fleets of stars.
But when these things were finished
And He looks round and smiles,
His stocks was so diminished,
He couldn’t make the miles.
“That’s where our job commehces,
And over every sea
We’ve scattered miles like fences,
As reg’lar as can be.
There’s miles that lie between us,
They make the women fret.
There’s miles that lead to Venus
And things you can’t forget.
And nights, when gales are Mowin'
He drank and wiped his lips—
“We send the warm miles, glowin’,
To link the lonely ships.”
“A mile is made of minutes,
And coal and muscle, too;
Each revolution in it’s
A length of water blue.
But first we take and boil ’em,
And keep the pressure high,
Then measure ’em and oil ’em
As they go tumblin’ by
Through crank and thrust, where dimly
The shinin’ shaftin’ turns,
To reach the screw that grimly
Just churns, and churns and churns.”
I called for brimming measures
For these two hardy men,
Who, scorning ’longshore pleasures,
Were off to sea again,
To keep the lands connected
By miles they meant to make,
Iyest spheres should be bisected
And empires fall and break.
Away from love and beauty,
By roaring fires half-cooked,
They went to do a duty
The Lord had overlooked!
MAeRILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


HHZSi
: S . ‘
m
■
mm
'- V 'v' v-C ’S
- v'‘” \ £
\ * -v-
-• • -v' >•
0*
l
!'{';• gf
i*
11 "iff fill
»JM *.
.
.v
.■rxiu.i
mm
•..-1
A # / fun t ;
Mi
j
-'t-a-
-fefs
fissnm
m
"m<e
WM
up
m
mi
m
m&m
feilKKl
.
IS
Mi
B*l
:g :
i m
n>
t
WfS-i
.
» r.mmm
...m
•:****« Ji
V ■ ■ ' >,
33MHn
«•»»
flip®
- '
»«**«
sra
Cooling' Breezes
in Your Home with a
G.E. Electric Fan
A breeze that is made to order by the electric
current is more reliable than one predicted by the
weather man.
A turn of the switch will bring you cool comfort
on the hottest day positively, and without effort on
your part.
LET US TURN ON THE BREEZE FOR YOU.
A
Amk
£
Cr. Wentworth Avenue &. Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Cr. Queen &, Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS
f ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
(Q.): The Engineering Supply Company of Australia Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), cr. Edward & Chari«tto
J PERTH (W.A.): Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd.. “Mazda House/’ 894 Hay Street <- ha rlotte fetieets.
1 TASMANIA: Oliver & Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
[NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.
AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH. DUNEDIN and WELLINGTON


f
He Can’t
Shed His
Coat,
but he would if he
could. High prices for
skins put his life in
constant danger.
WINCHCOMBE,
CARSON never fail
to secure senders top
market results for
Rabbit, Fox and all
other skins.
CONSIGN:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
.DARLING HARBOR. LTD.
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New Tork, U.S.A.
Post age to United
States, 3d.
*
%
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
C/u*
Mice
818 Little Colljins St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARItAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.G.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wofl/L
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
CAPILLARINE
7
for
Quick
Results.
A splendid growth of Hair can be produced
on the upper lip by the aid of CAPTL-
LARINE. Make up your mind to grow the
Moustache, and start using CAPILLARINE
right away. A preparation of unfailing
merit.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
dsf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
sd
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES-Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins Housei” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
bydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. A. W. LEWIS, 62 Brooliman Buildings
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The All/
//& In! Nlvr\Kl>\
British.
Gl* J-» I"" 1
Slaliitra
LIGHT CAR
The C»r (or the Owner-Driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agents:
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
f
SftfECUARO YOUR HEALTH
Q?J.Co!tis Browns
CWorodyue
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/cls, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks r JU V KlilSrl"
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS, $/-, 5/-.
Hade in England.
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
<Y\ERS/£
o
<
s
EASIC
K
jEmeol
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. Ltd.,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney.
CIO
TROOPS
TRAVELLING OVER-SEAS SHOULD
AVOID DISCOMFORT FROM
SEA SICKNESS.
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
»s invaluable. It positively
Prevents and Cures Sea, Air,
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
The Universal Dustless Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Classes
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals., Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Pilling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
The Universal Dustless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10, with
Shaker Peed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Plant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron and Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [4
. Tom Johnson, formerly Chief Commis-
sioner of N. S. Wales Railways, has ac-
cepted the job of organising and standardis-
ing the Government railways of China.
R. G. D. Fitzgerald, M.L.C., of Muswell-
brook, who recently completed his 50th year
on the solicitors’ roll of N. S. Wales, did
one shining deed during his short reign as
Minister for Justice. He repealed the savage
jaw condemning criminals to solitary con-
in dark cells. The men on whom
this legal torture was inflicted used to chase
after their buttons to keep themselves sane.
In the Vic. Government pavilion at the
Agricultural Showground various oflicial
admonitions are shouted at Henry Wire-
whiskers from the walls. One of these
reads: “Bran is a great milk producer.”
No doubt it is. But largely because the
Australian cocky has been fooled into sup-
porting Freetrade or at least a piebald Pro-
tection, this great wheat-producing country
mills only a small percentage of its wheat,
exporting the rest to be made into flour
overseas, and thereby depriving the soil of
immense quantities of fertilising elements.
“Hambone”: There’s one Digger anyway
who mistook young Edward of Wales for a
military policeman. We were in billets in
Belgium when Ned called round. Ours was
spick and span—madame looked after us
splendidly. One of our chaps, who had a
D.C.M., happened to be fixing an electric-
light bulb as the young man pushed his
head into the doorway. “Good night,” the
visitor said, and then, obviously a bit em-
barrassed, added: “Where did you get
that?” He meant the D.C.M.; but Digger
thought he had spotted the electric-light
bulb, so the Aussie proceeded to explain,
dinkum, that it wasn’t souvenired —he’d got
it on the square from madame.
According to J. D. Merson, the recognised
amateur statistician on the subject, the Vic.
drink bill for 1918-19 was £5,569,969, or
£3 17s. lOd. per capita. In 1884 (the first
year for which a computation was made) it
was £1 7s. more; and the public got a great
deal more drink for its money in previous
times, so that the falling off in consumption
is much greater than the figures suggest.
How much of the improvement is due to edu-
cation and how much to Vic.’s excellent sys-
tem of licenses reduction statistics can’t show.
But perhaps this doesn’t matter, seeing that
education and general social advancement
are very largely responsible for the con-
tinued success of the licenses-reduction sys-
tem, if not for its introduction.
Another of the “machines” got a jolt the
other day. Among the correspondence
read at the Wammerawa District Council
of the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Asso-
ciation was a note from the Trangie branch.
The council recovered enough breath to pass
the literature on to the association confer-
ence in Sydney, and it recovered enough
breath to disband Trangie for “disloyalty.”
The document: —
First of all, we are going to vote for Mr. Ashford;
then for any other candidate we like. Too long
have the cockies been the slaves of the clique in
Pitt-street and the executive of the F. and S.
Association. We will be followers no longer. First,
we are out for Mr. Ashford, then any other can-
didate, we like to vote for —and the association can
go to Hell!
Cocky, who begins to realise that he has
wings and claws, afterwards explained that
the association needn’t go to Hell if it didn’t
want to.
The fact that juries are loth to convict in
Darwin, no matter what the offence, is hav-
ing the inevitable result. Recently in an
inland township a couple of roughs com-
mitted some assaults. An exasperated crowd
didn’t wait for the Law, but promptly shot
one fellow in the leg. As night drew on
the roughs camped in a raihvav humpy, and
to make sure that no further damage wnuld
happen from that quarter local people
pumped in a fire from revolvers, .44 Win-
chesters and other firearms. When morn-
ing came the humpy was seen to be riddled
with bullets, but luckily no one was killed.
Still, lynch law was threatened, and only
the departure of the weekly train saved the
situation. Lynch law looks inevitable if the
Commonwealth Government will not act
quickly. When British juries, one after an-
other, refuse to convict in clear cases, there
is something radically wrong. And it is
Minister Glynn’s business to get on to it
at once.
JOSEPHINE’S COAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The season’s ‘coat’ may be a frock or cloak or
other covering wrap. Here is one in French blue
cloth, with elaborate embroideries in blue and buff.
The collar is a strap of satin-lined cloth, and there
are embroidered pieces of cloth figuring as a scarf,
a sleeve trimming, with cuff roll and a full back
and coat revers. It is quite short, this coat of coats.”
When Josephine sighs, and decisively stresses
Her need of new dresses,
The wish may connote
A dozen confections, chic, fluffy and flighty,
A ba.ll-dress or nightie,
Or maybe a coat.
But if you suppose that you know what a coat is,
Your notion remote is
From what she requires;
No costume devised by a tailor she’s after—
That moves her to laughter,
Or pity inspires.
The Protean garment she craves is fantastic.
The sac, sad, monastic,
Which you may affect,
Is frightful to her. She wants something seductive,
Involved, superstructive,
In which to be decked.
When Adam at first in this tear-spattered valley,
His spirits to rally,
O’er Eve ’gan to gloat,
And as queen of his garden at Eden installed her,
She probably called her
New fig-leaf a coat.
Don’t tell Josephine that her coat’s rather silly,
And flimsy and frilly ;
Express no surprise—
If she calls it a coat, well, that settles the question,
And any suggestion
You make she’ll despise.
N s w -
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


vJi-cle view
of
Key Action
Tlie Beale Piano Aciion
cl £exv odT its superior dfeatures
1. The whole of the Beale Piano action is
manufactured from a special kind of timber
which does not split, warp or crack. It is
exceedingly tough and the various parts can be
brought down to the light weight necessary for
a light touch, without sacrificing any of that
strength which durability demands.
3. Every piano -action mechanic knows the
superiority of the front escapement, double-
repetition type of action, such as is found in
our instrument. This is the most responsive,
sympathetic and utterly reliable action known
to piano builders. It guarantees a “touch”
that delights the technically proficient musician.
2. The hammers, dampers and all other felt
pieces used in the Beale Piano are ,made from
pure, Australian Merino Wool of the finest
grade. Such wool will remain “live” for the
greatest number of years, giving a quality of
tone that is appreciated by the true music lover.
4. A Beale key, made of genuine spruce, from
a built-up piece of timber; the strongest
possible construction. Ivory is the pure, white,
fine grained East African and Egyptian variety.
The yellow West African and Indian ivory is
never used.
When you decide to have a good piano, investigate the Beale.
Terms if desired.
CO
a)
•00
0
<u
H
O
o
cQOO
cO
cO
sdf
Branches throughout the <Bmmomealth
Taciory:
41471raral
St
r
Annandale.


ffolepraof
ffosienp
I
Holeproofs are made bp
scientific methods, de-
veloped onlp in recent
pears.
(bearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of alwaps having
perfect Hosier p soft,
neatlp-fitting, stplish.
These qualities are alhem-
bodied in
“HOLEPROOF”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multiply their
durability.
If your dealer cannot supply
you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cath.ro
50 York Street
Pty. Ltd.
Sydney.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Australian Mutual
Established
1848.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,’500’000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. W. APPBRLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 12/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appbtite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mefitioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
iißl
M
an
'MIC
m
'■K
*r
m
1
a
i
The sign the
World knows
IT is the Gargoyle—the
world symbol of scientific
lubrication.
The red Gargoyle appears on
cans and barrels which leave
Vacuum Oil Company refi-
neries scattered over the
globe.
The red Gargoyle points the
way to correct lubrication on
six continents. It will be
found in garages in every
country where motor cars are
a factor. In the ports of the
world it is looked for by
owners of steamships.
It is a servant to electricity,
steam and gas. It gives these
power-sources their right to
work at full efficiency.
Every nation on the two
hemispheres recognises the
red Gargoyle. It is their
guide-post to mechanical
efficiency.
t=u*
Lubricants
A grade for each type
of service
"
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd., Throughout Australasia
Specialists in the manufacture of high-grade lubricants for every class of machinery
Mil
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
gNIEfigS
1
m
I DYE 8.
THE reputation of our pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during a
period when it has not been easy to live
up to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract is a Contract.”
E very shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. We will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
80 Maiden Bane., Holbrook Building,
New York, TJ.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred.”
6, GENT me.
nFrancisco.U.S.A.
&
captain! e*
ErnestS/j/r/Y m tfustra/hn f 7//sion/
HZoofc
DRY GIN
Bracing as the Breezes
that brought the
“Endeavour” to Botany
Bay.
y
m
m.
m.
m
ALWAYS LOOK FOR CAPTAIN COOK
H. W. Marshall, a returned Digger, suc-
ceeds the late J. R. G. Adams as secretary
to the Board which controls Art Gallery,
Museum and Public Library in Adelaide. He
is 34, and has been in the library since he
was a small boy, except when he was in
khaki. The Board, in appointing him, gave
a special word of praise to Miss L. M. Har-
wood, who has been acting-general-sec.
“Simon!”: Bill the milk-o gives me a
point. Says Billo: “If you suspect that yer
juice has been broken down, just put a
knitting-needle into it. When you draw it
out it won’t be exactly milk that will drip
from it if milky has been using his head.”
According to my counsellor, if this trick
were generally known fewer dairymen would
be faking income-tax returns to-day.
“Naming” : An . Anzac who returned IS
months ago, deciding that pen-pushing was
no longer a glorious opening to a career of
adventure, turned down his old job and
tackled bush life in Central Queensland. On
Boggarella run he heard first of the for-
tunes which are spilled into the laps of
trappers, scalpers and skin-magnates, and
decided to give poisoning a fly. The total
fortune (about £200) of himself and two
cobbers was invested in two teams of horses,
drays, tents, gear, poison and guns; and the
season was passed in the surrounding ranges
“salting” the pads of ’possums and trapping
wallabies. Four months’ toil resulted in
the filling of both drays to capacity with
skins, and a third load was stacked for a
return trip. Sales resulted in a gross profit
of £1640. The life is lonely and rough, but
there are fortunes still awaiting the venture-
some.
It is all very well for Frank Clarke, Vic.
Minister for Lands, to announce at this
stage that “fowls don’t pay”—that of 50
returned soldiers put on poultry farms
only six of them have any prospect
of succeeding, and their success is due
to the fact that they breed show
birds and travel round country shows.”
But that doesn’t relieve somebody of
responsibility. For years the Vic. Govern-
ment has been running fowl competitions and
employing various sorts of fowl experts ; yet,
on its Minister’s own confession, it knew so
little of the business that it shoved 50 de-
serving Billjims into a foredoomed failure.
These men wasted their own time, the State’s
money and the wages they could have earned
elsewhere, struggling on to an inevitable
dead-end, because, apparently, their respon-
sible advisers couldn’t do a little simple
arithmetic. What has Frank Clarke to say
about that aspect of the matter?
Joe Hannan is to have his fourth go for
the Fawkner (Vic.) Federal constituency,
liis first attempt, against George Fairbairn,
was unsuccessful. Then with the boundaries
altered he won. But Maxwell shoved him
out to Win the War, after which he dropped
into the Albert Park Assembly seat on the
death of George Elmslie. Several other can-
didates, including returned-soldier Captain
Parker, took part in the selection ballot,
but Hannan won on the first count. The
winner, who has not yet lost his brogue,
made his entry into politics as sec. of the
Marine Cooks and Pantrymen’s Union; and
his Parliamentary manner suggests the suave
humility of that earlier sphere of action.
He may win again, for Maxwell, whose
majority was a trifle of 900 votes, is a tired
old man who got into the House too late.
Still he misses few points outside. No
mothers’ meeting is overlooked, and on the
platform he is affability itself, with an air
of patient forbearance towards the “talent”
in the back seats. In fact, from the solid
Australian viewpoint both candidates are
too dashed polite to the electors, and not
nearly enough concerned with Getting the
Job Done.
“Suburbanite” heads a revolution:—
The more I see of profiteering, by trades unions
and tradesmen, the more I wish I were a sort of
Bolshevik. Not a homicidal maniac: merely a
member of a small community which has freed it-
self from the tyranny of over-civilisation. Every
fresh luxury or comfort that we adopt transforms
itself into a whip for our own backs.
Years ago I spent a couple of months salmon-
fishing in the Mandal River in Norway. We in-
habited the post office of a village of about two
dozen houses 30 miles from the nearest big town.
The only means of getting there was by carriole—
a sort of sulky. Most of the food was syndicated—•
on Monday, say, one family would kill a sheep or
two, another make butter, a third bread, and so on.
Jam, pickles and other things were made and dis-
tributed on this basis: also a sort of beer. The
system didn’t provide Lucullan food, but the stuff
was good and plentiful, and no outsider profiteered
anybody.
In Australia, the land of scientifically bloated
cities, no such defence is possible against the
unionised worker on the one hand and the unionised
employer on the other. The man between them is
like a bediamonded old lady wandering unprotected
amidst brigands. His first enemy is the colossal trans-
port system which imposes itself on every over-large
and hyper-civilised community. If the rhythm of this
system is interfered with for only a week the
citizen begins to go short of something—say sugar,
w'hich presently means jams, cakes, puddings and a
score of other familiar things. If the hold-up lasts
for any time he begins to starve, as Germany did
under ‘ ‘lock-out’ ’ declared by the Allies. If
he lives in a suburb he is pathetically at the
mercy of the local railways or ferries, or both.
If the managers or men decide to stop the service he
may be ruined through lack of opportunity to get
to his job or business. He accordingly agrees at
any price to the growing demands of both, though
nis own income remains stationary.
By what means can he improve his present lot ?
Or, anyhow, prevent its getting any worse? In
the first place by buying all he possibly can
locally instead of crowding to the city to congest
it still further. Further, he can do a lot for himself by
simplifying his life—by buying outside only what it
is impossible to make or grow at home. Above
everything, he needs to fight against the bloat-
ing of the big cities which hits him at every
angle, from housing to the price of fish. A tariff
cannot help him much if the workers it attracts
and the factories it builds up are all to be crowded
into the already bursting cities. What he wants
is a tariff plus a State-railway policy which will
encourage the growth of industries in the country
towns and other viaste spaces. He will still be
victimised by the unionised classes, of course: it is
a law of the industrial jungle. But his lot will
at least be less awful than it is at present.


,* •• .
■ :\ t
mm.
n
p
4%‘:
•fjv'lVrtf!
W
mm
■■ ■•
i ■ a
m
■
■ : - ■ ;■:
jpfjjil J&hb|
HHhHhSHH
J>o
:
ttFsi
■ ,« ."4.
mm
■
-
•■'
ii
■
«*•• >•
.
m
j ■
.
:■
;v.»
WBmi
'YM
i.. i. ".. *
■
\ !
■
Now our home is every hit as nice as
Cousin Jim *s in the city . * *
the faim'home' 81 ’' ‘ D h ° USC a " d barn is OD,y one of ,he im I ,rov emcnts that Delco-Light brings to
: , '
*MW» » ' \
tmm
? mm\
In these ways Delco-Light saves many hours each week
I housands of users testify that it quickiy pays for itself in
time and labor saved.
Dejco-Light is easy to install. It needs only a few min-
utes attention two or three times a week. In return it gives
steady electric service, day and night, throughout the year.
Over 70,000 Satisfied Users
THE DOMESTIC ENGINEERING COMPANY, Dayton, Ohio. U. S. A*
Makers of DELCQ-LIGHT Products
See Plant in Operation or write for Full Particulars to Sole Agents:
New South Wales: WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-311 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Victoria & Tasmania: WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-382 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
South Australia: PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
West Australia: GEO. WILLS & CO., PERTH.
New Zealand: A. D. RILEY & CO., LTD., WELLINGTON-
FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,’ CHRISTCHURCH.
■


Itchy Pimples Covered
Face. Cuticura Heals.
Caused Disfigurement. Also
On Head and Legs.
**l suffered with pimples which
covered my face and forehead for about
a month. The pimples
were scattered and the skin
around them was a little
inflamed. The pimples were
itchy and festered and caused
disfigurement. They also
appeared on my head and
some on my legs.
“I was recommended to
use Cuticura Soap and Ointment. They
afforded relief so I bought some more
and in a month’s time my face was
healed.” (Signed) S. Moore, Milton
Street, Granville, N.S.W., Feb. 19, ’l7.
Having cleared your skin with Cuti-
cura why not keep it clear by using
the Soap for every-day toilet purposes.
Absolutely nothing better.
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
ds
If
Want a New
1
Acetylene
Gas
Generator
for Lighting or
Oxy-Welding—
go to BRANDT’S,
who supply them
from 10 to 200
Light.
We send Mechanics to overhaul old Installa-
tions or instal new ones.
Send for Latest Booklet on Acetylene
Lighting.
Best Swedish Carbide now in
Stoek—all Granulations.
WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
Acetylene and Air°Gas Engineers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
f
BULL DO 0
GRIP
WILL BEP».I,a %gl
"ANY SIZE PUNC TURE -1
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE’
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CAR AGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
QUEENSLAND.
THE KEY i TO
PF/OSPEiRITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens Mhe' 4oeir to
prosperity if tor dose
r requiring land
Particulars oTOthe
millions ;/ol acres', of
Crow n ! * La^no
now avt liable will? be
sent you at'once,
also 8« loklets on the
Slated scesources—
l# JR E e;—
ftamtpm
Addresi
Queens!^
iittMiiacej
ad Goverameftt
4od Tourist Bsreiti
m
to-
B
8ft
1
1
H
m
Sg
ii
SB
M
B
i»
1
$
11
l i
■'
oil "
CROUCH
JTTEEL
We Can Make Immediate Shipment
from the East Coast, and
from the West Coast,
either from our own warehouses
at Staten Island, New York, or
from our branch house in San
Francisco.
Write for our monthly maga-
zine,
and our Stockbook SB6, giving
a list of quantities on hand.
Cable Address:
“Ardeencee,” New. York.
Codes used: ABC 5th Edition,
Western Union, Lieber’s, and
Bentley’s.
Rownson, Drew & Clydesdale Ino
68 William St., New York, U. S. A
m
V'/\
m
rMX
**=sr
□
vm
-~j£»
}V
£
©
rYALE“
ALL’S WELL
npHE home protected by Yale
A Builders’ Locks and Hard-
ware is secure from aggression.
You can live in it with a feeling of perfect
security and with pride of possession.
Because “Yale”’means the very best in
locks, fastenings, knobs, escutcheons,
best in utility, in appearance and safety.
There is a Yale product exactly suited
to every hardware need—the complete
line comprises, Yale padlocks, Yale
night latches, Yale door closers, Yale
builders’ hardware, Yale bank locks,
and Yale chain blocks. The same trade-
mark guarantees them all.
Sold by Leading Dealers
The Yale & Towne Mfg. Co.
ESTABLISHED 1868
New York
sdf
MD TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features •
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 rContinuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload (33601 b.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERRCT, Sole Australian Agent
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
For our sick and woun
BOYS. —When you have finished
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Say When”: Adelaide is in future to
have its whisky measured out like Sydney
and Melbourne. With the increased duty
promised on imported spirits, S. Aus. bungs
decided the other day that the bad habit
of handing over the bottle for the consumer
to help himself will be discontinued.
The British anti-strike leaders lost no
time in demonstrating that they would meet
the railway crisis with every means in
their power. According to Sydney I).T.
(29/9/T9) :—•
The express left London Bridge for Brighton this
afternoon, amid loud cheers. The train was hogged
out of the station, as all the signals were set
against her.
Whips of fight in the Government ap-
parently !
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: A frontage of
30ft. to Pitt-street, Sydney, just north of
King-street, has changed hands for £31,500
—roughly £lOOO per foot. The site is that
upon which the notorious John Tawell had
his dispensary. Then Moore, Henderson and
Bowcher had their softgoods warehouse
there; Pitt-street was the wholesale fluff
merchant’s abode in those days, and down
pretty well to 30 years ago. It was about
that time this old firm retired from business,
and the,ancient warehouse was demolished.
The S. Aus. ketch Victoria just missed
the experience- which a Parramatta River
steamer had a few years ago. There was
a very low tide in the middle of the night,
and the port side got caught under a cross-
piece of the wharf, to which she was fast-
ened at Port Adelaide. And then the tide
came in. The captain, sleeping on board,
woke to find himself in water, with more
pouring across the deck and going below.
Prompt action saved the ship from founder-
ing, and the only damage done was that
some bags of wheat were salted.
Captain White, the Adelaide naturalist, is
laying himself out for a trip to Groote
Island in the Gulf of Carpentaria, mostly
on the chance of finding some new birds.
Groote was sighted and named by the Dutch-
men about three centuries ago, but no white
man has ever thoroughly overhauled it,
although it is the biggest island in the Gulf.
There are lots of things still to be explored
up that way. Another ornithologist, McLel-
lan, lately back from active service, took a
1200-mile trip in a five-ton cutter, single-
handed except for natives, from Thursday
Island right round the coasts of the Gulf
and beyond, visiting many out-of-the-way
corners. He found that the maps were very
rough in their laying-down of the coast, and
that more than one place shown as a penin-
sula was really an island.
“Tas.”: “Stung” (B. 11/9/T9) complains
of an Australian drug factory canning its
“tabloids” in a Jap-made bottle. It is not
a matter of an Australian manufacturer
failing to assist Aussie industry; the kick
is in the other boot. The co. gets practi-
cally all its hundreds of thousands of con-
tainers made locally, though they cost con-
siderably more than the landed-price of the
cheaply-produced overseas article. The
manufacture of “Stung’s” little bottle was
offered to the local glassworks along with
the others, but the blowing-trade did not
see enough profit in the line —apparently be-
cause it was not a machine-job and necessi-
tated hand-blowing—and was well satis-
fied to see it passed on to little Brown
Brother. Incidentally, instead of importing
practically all the drugs we need, as in
the bad old days, local manufacturers are
making some progress in providing cures for
the ills of the older world —and exporting
them in Australian bottles, too.
• “Hawk”: When the pruning-knife cuts out
wasteful State expenditure, there is scope
in the N. S. Wales Department of Agricul-
ture, grown monstrous with useless branches.
Its natural function has not been under-
stood. Press and Government assume that
it teaches profitable agriculture, and the
more profitable,because scientific. But while
agricultural chemistry has some claim to
exactitude, practical agriculture, being em-
piric, has not; for the guiding factors are
variable. Thus, artificial nitrates, neces-
sary for a good European wheat crop, usually
fail in Australia. Deep tillage gives the
best results in Britain ; here, sometimes, a
mere scuffle of the soil. Rules vary in dif-
ferent districts, even on adjacent farms;
and it is only an intimate knowledge of local
factors making for success that leads to it.
A new-chum may have an open mind, and,
adopting local ways, succeed, where a col-
lege-bred student, with the conceit of know-
ing more than the Way backs, fails. The
city man who has read up the subject fails
regularly. Many Government farms scat-
tered over the State run—or, rather, shuffle
—to an annual loss. Previous successful
experience in agriculture is not required of
their managers. In result a group of very
necessary and mostly-underpaid experts are
diluted by a crowd of amateurs conducting
extravagant and often childish experiments
and teaching sjtudents their absurdities. The
true scope for the Departfnemt is as a technical
institution; and in that direction it should
be extended, with adequate salaries to its
staff, practical teaching being left to prac-
tical men now on the land, and proving their
capacity by their results.
INK AND ’UNGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet was bald and his mo’ was gray,
though his step was light and his manner gay.
His coat was green (it had once been brown) ;
And the girl was a “pommy” from Camden town.
She called him “chooin,” and she gave a wink,
And smiled as she said that he smelt of drink.
(Drink and ’unger, ’unger and ink!)
He said, “You are fair, with a form divine.
Oh! beautiful girl, will you not be mine?”
Her hair was red (it had once been brown)
And it tickled his cheek as they both sat down.
“Marry a poet? No, no, I think
Poets are mad, and they mostly drink.”
(Drink and ’unger, ’unger and ink!)
But he pressed his suit and he pressed it oft,
His words were sweet and his voice was soft....
She paid the fee (it was half a crown),
And he wedded the pommy from Camden town.
Now she makes him work when he wants to think,
And nags and nags while he cleans the sink.
(Ink and ’unger, ’unger and ink!)
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


ds
m
tm
m
m
m
M
wm
'■ ,
yy
MAKERS OP
Oneida Community
RELIANCE PLATE
Guaranteed 25 years
MAKERS OF
Oneida Community
PAR PLATE
Guaranteed 10 years
v4n c-lppeal to Beaut
y
“For the glory of the house is hospitality,”
and it is the joy of every woman’s heart to
to adorn her table with dainty silver.
Instinctively, the woman of taste turns
to Community Plate—the silver-plated cut-
lery, noted for its beauty of design, superiority
and distinction, and which is so much the
vogue. Its quality is of the highest, and its
period designs—Adams, Sheraton, Hepple-
white and Patrician, harmonise exactly with
the interior furnishings of those periods, and
raise Community Plate from the level of the
ordinary.
Community Plate is guaranteed for 50
years and the spoons and forks have been
reinforced to resist wear by an additional
overlay of pure silver at the base of the
bowl, doubling the life and durability of
the pieces. Also, Community Plate designs
are not duplicated in other qualities.
Services range from £5 to £so—a proud possession
for any household. On sale at the leading shops
Oneida
Community Ltd.
The Banking House
228 Pitt Street. SYDNEY
■
*
m
Wk
.PQTRtCtAM,.
ESTABLISHED 1848
INCORPORATED 1881
at
Oneida, New York
U.S.A.


IM'
*
MR. BERGfeR.
IU
*
4
f-
O
S 3
tM'.
I
*»s‘
ppEg.frjLi.i4
/ 7"j
'm /•/ / /
§U7 ( \[
IIPK \ L
\
k \ \N
%
» -©
l * L % 50^V 6*^
,p
V/’ir.r:
s:
«Ji.JU| 33231 3 - “ 2 *
LXEma:.Liii:m
sac-r
srsr
«**&
aim
r~ “i
- ■■/'
tuc
3r r .jcStTi" a-raS 1*35
I
mjesh,,
wtu,
r
Be ‘ SSSHSS
fa* Ssjfjs
M
'*a
The best paint to use is
ore
D
n
o
(PREPARED)
D
Its perfect smoothness/ its correctly balanced proportions
of Genuine Stack-made White Lead, Zinc Oxide,
Linseed Oil and Turps, and its uniform consistency,
ensure ease of working and remarkable covering power.
This paint is guaranteed
to spread further, look better, and wear longer than any other paint. The
guarantee is printed on every tin.
Ask your painter to use “BP"—the faint that protects!
MANUFACTURED AT RYHODES, N.S.W., BY
LEWIS BERGER & SONS (AUST.) LTD.
FOUNDED AT LONDON I g6o. 16-1 8 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.


A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand fluted and burnished, 05/-
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, polished
English Oak, A 1 quality, Silver-plated
mounts, porcelain china lining, 40/»
HR
A. Saunders’ Water Pitcher, pure
Silver-plated, hand burnished and
engraved, 55/-
TABLE APPOINTMENTS
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A: quality Cake
Dishes, Sugar and Cream highly burnished, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street
>, NOIXVXS v
UvAAiiva ddo)
Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure S'.lvi
plated, At quality) 63/-
A. Saunders’ Egy-Framo and Spoons,
pure Silver-plated, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle, pure
s>)iV(T-plated, A I quality, highly
burnished, “Butterfly” design, 70/-
Our reptile contemporary, the Federal
Government Gazette, has published 48
regulations about keeping rabbits, dingoes,
crows and such-like out of the Federal capi-
tal, they being apparently the only unofficial
settlers who are rushing the place. A 40th
regulation about keeping the flies off it may
appear shortly.
“Snell”: To the galaxy of frugal souls
permit me to appoint Martin. Martin is
a Gentile who runs a pawnbrokery in our
suburb (Melbourne ) and does so well by it
that he is reputed to be one of the largest
householders south of the Yarra. The other
day, driving home to lunch in a sulky
that is his most extravagant indulgence, he
lost overboard a handbag containing a quan-
tity of diamond jewellery and a large sum
in banknotes. I met him at the tram ter-
minus on the day after the report of his
loss got about, and put up some pretence
at commiseration. “That’s all right, that’s
all right,” said Martin gaily. “It’s all come
back to me. As luck would have it that
chap Craven was riding behind on a motor-
cycle, and picked up the bag. You know
Craven, he’s a temperance advocate, makes
public speeches about the horror of drink
and all that. He is an honest man. He
saw my name on the bottom of the handbag,
and made inquiries. When he found me out
he returned the lot. Now wasn’t that a
stroke of luck? If anyone else had found
it he would have expected me to shout him a
whisky.”
Legal Notice.
tN the Estates of MARY BRIFFITT the elder, late
1 of Sydney, New South Wales, Widow, deceased,
intestate, and of WILLIAM BRIFFITT, late of Clon-
currv, Queensland, Drover, deceased intestate.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to JOHN BRIFFITT,
formerly of Kempsey, a son of the above-named
MARY BRIFFITT and brother of the above-named
WILLIAM BRIFFITT, to come in and prove his
claim to the above estates within three months from
this date. Any person knowing the whereabouts of
JOHN BRIFFITT might communicate with the
undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
To Squatters or Anyone Desiring an
Ideal Home.
FOR SALE. —A charmingly picturesque
RESIDENCE, situated in one of the
leading suburbs, within a few miles of the
city, with a long frontage to the Brisbane
River.
Area of Land 3J Acres, beautifully laid
out in flower garden, lawns, shrubs, shade
and fruit trees.
The house contains ten main rooms, with
10-feet verandahs all round, substantially
built and in perfect order.
Telephone, Acetylene Gas Plant; Electric
Light shortly available. For further par-
ticulars,
Apply “OWNER,”
Box 768, G.P.0.,
No Agents. Brisbane.
Aiiiiineinenr.il.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinSes Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.30.
THE OFFICERS’ MESS.
The Latest and Greatest Musical Play.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
•yiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST DAZZLING REVUE,
BUZZ, BUZZ.
Prices as usual.
OK I T K It I O N T H E A T It E. SYDNEY. I
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
AGAIN THE LAUGH MAKERS,
M. B. FIGMAN and
LOLITA ROBERTSON in
A TAILOR-MADE MAN.
A HIGH-SPEED COMEDY,
ENTIRELY IN THE FIGMAN MANNER.
Plan at Paling’s.
HE It MA.IES T Y ’ S. >YI)N IS V.
Direction .1. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
THE
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
GOING UP.
Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
PALACE TIIE A T RE, SYI)N E V.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
J. & N. TAIT present
DADDIES.
A Fragrant Romance. A Sparkling Comedy.
A New Comedy Featuring a New Company.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal, sydne y.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
Direction KATE HOWARDE
Sole Rep. for Kate Howarde .... GORDON CONRAD
The RIOTOUS COMEDY SUCCESS that’s setting
all Sydney laughing.
’POSSUM PADDOCK.
Written, produced and presented by Kate Howarde.
Brilliant Company includes FRED MACDONALD and
JACK KIRBY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/. Plans at Paling’s.
YDN E Y' " TOWN HALL.
GRAND SACRED AND CLASSICAL
RECITAL.
SUNDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 12, at 8 p.rn.
Professional Musicians’ Reed Band, 60 performers.-
Splendid programme, including the famous “1812”
Overture, kindly assisted by Miss Peerless, Geo.
Whitehead, A. forzillo (Australia’s Premier Harpist)
and other artists.
Admission: 3/-, 2/- & 1/-. Reservations at Paling’s.
A. O’BRIEN, 11 Rowe Street, City.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
u
N lON I’IC T l K 1C T II ic A T K 1C !S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
UST BAJA AN-A MERIC AN ~ PRIVATE!
DANCING SCHOOL.
Beginners can learn to dance in 3 or 4 lessons: Tickle
Toe, Jazz, Maxina, Fox Trot, One Step, Reverse
Waltz, etc. PRIVATE LESSONS daily (by app’t).
PRIVATE CLASSES arranged (4 to 15 friends),
afternoon or evening. A. W. TOWEND, Principal.
Studio: Ist Floor, 124 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel.
City 2499.
Hick majesty’s theatre. Melbourne
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 11.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present for a brief
revival only,
KATINKA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
'll IC A T It IC It O V \ 1., MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous Play
of Sentiment, Pathos and Humor,
LIGHTNIN’
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
INC.’S THEATRE.
M E I. 15 O V: It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY V GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present the Delightful Comedy,
OLD LADY 31.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ELSIE FERGUSON in
HIS PARISIAN WIFE.
VIRGINIA PEARSON in
BUCHANAN’S WIFE.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY - .
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Famous Drury Lane Melodrama, played here by
Bland Holt.
MATINEES DAILY AT 2.30. NIGHTS AT S.
Plans at Allan’s.
FOR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
DepSt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
LACIAKIDM, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
OPENS
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT,
11th OCTOBER, 1919.
DANCING
8.15 to 10.45.
DI GILIO’S SPECIAL BAND.
Admission 1/-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets ... 3/6
•yOIVN HALE, MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY—2.3O and B.p.m.
E. J. CARROLL presents
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
a Screen Classic in eight Acts, adapted from
C. J. Dennis’s world-famous verses.
The author writes: “ft is a marvellous achieve-
ment. The characters I created arc living on the
screen. - ’
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and I/-. Plan at Allan’s.
'll i;vr It IC. M 15 LUO I K.N tv
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
gyg ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the- world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
f
10/6
Genuine BENGALI. Razors.
Unsurpassed for Cutting Edge.
Made by T. R. Cadinan & Sons, Sheffield, Eng.
These razors have a reputation of 170 years’
standing for excellent quality. They are unsur-
passed for durability and keen-cutting edge. Very
best steel, hand-forged, hardened and tempered by
special process. Hollow-ground to highest degree
of perfection. Specially Selected.
Full concave, file tang. gin. blade. For light
beard.
Full concave, file tang, fin. blade.
Price, Past Free 10/6 each.
Or Two Razors, Post Free, for 207-
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 Spring Street, Sydney.


Write
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
' T- W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. '
of
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St;, Sydney
DT
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
PREPARE FOR HOT DAYS.
The Panama is unquestionably the ideal hat
for hot climates. It is also most convenient
for the holiday-maker because it can be
rolled into small space and springs back to
shape as good as before. The Peapes
Folder Panama, of fine sun-bleached South
American Straw—or in Alpine blocked shape
—is quoted at 30/-. Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state size, also whether Folder or
Blocked shape is required.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George St., Sydney,
ds
f
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's. :. “Going Up”
Criterion “A Tailor-made Man”
Koyal “ ’Possum Paddock.”
Palace “Daddies”
Tivoli “The Officers’ Mess”
Hoyt s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MKI.BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Katinka”
Koyal “Lightnin’ ”
“Old Lady 31”
Tivoli “Buzz Buzz”
Hoyt’s De Lu.ye & Lvceum Moving Pictures
Majestic . Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Town llall “The Sentimental Bloke”
“A Tailor-made Man” makes a heavy call
on the credulity of the audience. If the de-
mand is met in the right spirit, if it is not
questioned that a tailor’s assistant, given a
suit of dress-clothes and a little desultory
reading on economic subjects, may pull the
legs of all around him, from captains of
industry to ' strike-leaders, then the show
which has just arrived at Sydney Cri. from
Melbourne should appeal strongly to those
who like hustling Yankee farce. M. B. Fig-
man plays John Bart, the immemorial ad-
venturer of comedy. He would be more con-
vincing if he were drastically sub-edited: on
the other hand, volubility is his strong suit
as a comedian, and to be out of the. lime-
light is apparently anguish to him. Lolita
Robertson is the same graceful, darkly-
beautiful and gentle young Woman that she
was in “Nothing But the Truth.” A num-
ber of amusing character sketches are pro-
vided by other members of a big cast;
notably Herbert Leiges, Vivian Edwards
and Leslie Victor.
■ “Going Up” is drawing its share of the
Sydney racegoers to Her Majesty’s. The
people who have presented their savipgs and
next month’s rent to Patrick Shortodds
would rather have “Macbeth” with a dash
of “Hamlet” ; but winning punters are plen-
tiful enough this to make the bright
stuff go down.
* iii *
“Daddies” at the Palace' (Sydney) con-
tinues to demonstrate how a little child can
lead them to the paybox.
* * =l= *
It’s still “’Possum Paddock” at the Royal
(Sydney). Fred Macdonald as the wild
colonial boy (second edition) is the bright
spark of the Australian comedy.
Sydney Tivoli is kept busy with Jazz
revels, and “The Officers’ Mess” has the
usual two matinees per week.
At Sydney Opera House “The Beggar
Girl’s Wedding” will ring out finally on
Saturday night.
“Old Lady 31.” at
Melbourne King's.
J. H. Booth as Samuel
Darby.
At the Crystal
Palace and Strand
(S ydn e y) Con-
stance Talmadge, a
beauteous widow
for the time being,
named Arabella, is
seeking romance
with husband No.
2 after having cap-
tured wealth from
4 No. 1. As a matter
of fact the lady
has apparently
sampled everything
in the male busi-
ness from cave-
man to handsome
cousin Bill. There
being no other
thrills handy she
sticks to Bill.
Another Griffiths
film-- “T h e
Greatest Thing in
Life” —is showing
at the Haymarket
(Sydney) with Lit-
-1 i a n Gish and
Robert Harr on as
leads. The plot
goes to prove that
the Great War was
a true blessing be-
cause 't served to
turn a young
U.S.A. upstart into
quite a decent
chap. After all,
the war had its
uses.
Pauline Frederick, Ethel Clayton and
Fatty Arbuckle keep things moving at
Hoyt’s and, the Haymarket < Sydney). The
New Lyceum stars are Harold Lockwood in
“Pals First” and Harry Morey in “Silent
Strength.”
The success of Verbrugghen’s Orchestra
at Melbourne Town Hall last week was due
mainly to the merits of the performances and
partly to the local dearth of orchestral
music on a large scale. From a popular
point of hearing the Pathetic Symphony was
perhaps the pick of the items, but a pro-
gramme said to be specially arranged for
children gave some moments of particular
joy to the grown-ups who rushed it. This
happened on the Friday afternoon, when
Mendelssohn’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
got dainty treatment. Parts of Sneezowsky’s
Nut-Cracker suite were charmingly done,
and the Melodrama from “Piccolino” was a
triumph for Cyril Monk, who played the
violin solo. Too much was said in praise
of Verbrugghen’s Orchestra, of course.
Hyperbole was inevitable. But the begin-
ning of a fine orchestra is there, and the
conductor is evidently the man to carry the
good work to completion.
Melbourne shows are
mostly living on their
reputation, the only
change threatened
among the “long runs”
being a revival of
“Katinka” in place of
“Maytime” at lie r
Majesty’s. There has
been so very little
Florence Young i n
“Maytime” that Mel-
bourne is prepared to
make a fuss of the
genial lady when she
resumes her
“Katinka” part on
Saturday. For only
two more nights she
will appear briefly in
the alarming costume
of a bygone age.
“Lightnin’,” at Mel-
bourne Royal, is now
in his eighth week.
Kenneth Brampton,
the nearest approach
to a villain in the
play, continues to be
thwarted in his endea-
vors to get the free-
hold of Lightnin’s pub,
and Virtue, which is
but v a gu e 1 y repre-
sent e d, appears to
triumph. At any rate,
Bill and his not-very-
lovablo missus are
left in full enjoyment
of the hotel.
“Old Lady 31," at
Melbourne King's.
W. Fitzmauricc
H[?] as John.
At Melbourne King’s, the vexed question
as to why Angie’s husband doesn’t go looking
for work, instead of following her into a
home for elderly ladies, is as vexed as ever.
Also, the fact that all the crochety female
residents accept him as a bone of conten-
tion in the house, when they should expect
him to share the duties of the rouseabout
(who is apparently a much older person),
remains a striking testimony to the value
of male society in their midst. “Old Lady
•>1” is a comedy which encourages the merest
man to feel intensely satisfied with his sex.
At Melbourne Princess’s, where Lauder
sang his last song on Saturday, the Victorian
Opera Co. will have the floor this Saturday
and stay there through next week. The in-
tention of the V.O.C. is “The Bohemian
Girl.”
* * * if.
“Buzz-Buzz,” at Melbourne Tivoli, is only
in its third week, so the course of events
in that cheerful entertainment remains
almost the same as it was in the beginning.
Hoyt’s announces a “ladies’ week” at Mel-
bourne De Liixe and the Lyceum. At the
one house Elsie Ferguson (in “His Parisian
Wife”) is giving the sistern to understand
that divorce is not freedom, but only a larger
cage; at the other theatre Virginia Pearson
is suffering much scorn as “Buchanan’s
Wife.” Also, Louisa Alcott’s story, “Little
Women,” is filmed at the De Luxe only,
whilst several items flit their instructive
flight across both screens. At the Melba
and Britannia the tragedy of Charlie Chap-
lin as a farmhand is on view. Mrs. C.
Chaplin, by the way, is appearing in “For-
bidden” at the Britannia.
The pictorial version of Dennis’s “Senti-
mental Bloke.” assisted by a full orchestra
and a songful first part, is doing two turns
a day at Melbourne Town Hall under direc-
tion of E. J. Carroll. The film, made in
Australia, extends over 100 minutes or so,
and if the photographic art is more entirely
satisfactory than some of the acting of the
story it must be admitted that the pictures
are mostly Al. Probably a prior acquaintance
wif the Bloke and Doreen is necessary to a
warmer appreciation of the picture, but
judging from the reception on Saturday night
everybody in the crowded hall knew the
Bloke and the little bit of style who led
him to the altar.
The Muriel Starr season in Adelaide was
cut short by the coming of the Opera Co.
It might profitably be renewed on the re-
turn of Muriel from the West. She was
seen at about her best in the intense situa-
tions of "Three Faces East” at the end of
the final week. Frank Harvey maintained
his reputation throughout, while Styan and
James Hughes increased theirs. So did
Ethel Morrison, released at last from the old
necessity of making up fat and vulgar for
others to score off. The whole season came
near to being a personal triumph for Athol-
wood. This paper goes to press too soon
to say anything of the opera, except that it *
and _ the simultaneous coming of Verbrug-
ghen s Orchestra to the Town Hall seems
to have crowded Adelaide's lodging accom-
modation beyond capacity, many of the last-
comers having to sleep at distant suburbs
like Henley. The pantomime season at the
King’s has closed. The Tivoli reopens with
melodrama and a mostly-new co., with
Eugenie Duggan at the head. First play
is “The Little Girl God Forgot.” At the
Majestic, a fine baritone voice is uplifted
by Devron Brock, a local singer. Florence
Lox continues her clever work as male im-
personator, and the brisk acting of Edwards
and Parkes is as popular as ever. At the
Pav, the old “White Heather,” transferred
from West’s, is on all day. West’s itself
features Chaplin in a rustic farce. At Won-
dergraph, interest varies between Marguerite
Clark hatching out chickens in bed and
Elsie Ferguson giving a freak banquet in a
stable. The Grand makes a feature of photo-
graphs from life.
Society of Artists.
The Spring exhibition in Sydney is notable
for three important pictures—“ Spring
h rost, ’ by Elliott Gruner; "The Birth ox
Eife, a pen drawing by Norman Lindsay;
and ‘Morning,” by Percy Leason. Norman
Carters “Bella Donna” and Muir Auld's
“Day in Spring” come very near in import-
ance . to these three; but there is something
missing that makes the efforts of these
artists fall short of complete achievement
good as they are. The standard of the show
in a high one. It is hopeful to see the artist
setting himself a problem, in spite of the
ready and increasing sales of pictures. Hav-
ing found his market, there is a temptation
for the painter to produce work which he
knows will sell easily. Supplying popular
demand is dangerous.
“Spring Frost,” by Gruner, is an achieve-
ment. The composition shows a farm with
a group of cattle in the foreground. The cool
sweetness of fresh morning air is there. The
spirit of morning is revealed. Gruner has
succeeded admirably. This is the first large
canvas lie lias painted of a subject looking
towards tin l light. It was purchased pri-
vately before the exhibition for 300 guineas,
which is probably the highest money naid for
a landscape to an Australian artist in his
own country.
• man • Lindsay's most important exhibit
is Fhe Birth of Life”—a large pen-drawing,
which is extraordinary in conception and
execution. It shows a group of figures fall-
ing from the sky to earth. As they fall they
are caught by ugly monsters, who seek to
defile them. Life is shown sullied by con-
tact with Earth. The artistes imagination is
immense. No longer does he worry about
technique, the grouping of large masses of
figures drawn in the most difficult positions,
presents no difficulty to him. There is no
sign of laborious effort. Technique is to him
simply a means of expressing his sense of
beauty and his ideas. lie exhibits two other
pen-drawings—illustrations to poems of
Hugh McCrae, one of which, “On an Old
King,” is in decorative manner. He further
exhibits a panel of water-colors, the finest
of which is “Life and the People.” The
group of figures in the picture is full of
subtle grace, and the effect of color is elm rul-
ing. Coming to his water-colors, thev are
more restrained—the suggestion of 'color
rather than the use of it interests him more
keenly. “On the Rocks” and “The Witch”
are two fine examples. His washes of color
are direct and pure. “Phryne” is a well-
done decorative composition, full of beauty.
“The Elect” has movement and charm, but
in these two and in “The Garden Steps” the
technique is more obvious —they lack solidity.
The nude figure in “The Garden Steps” has
not sufficient grace or feminine charm.
Nevertheless these arc the finest water-colors
exhibited by Lindsay in Sydney.
Percy_ Leason’s “Morning” is the most
accomplished figure-painting in oils seen in
recent years in Sydney. The picture is not
without faults; but Leason matures. He is
the most promising figure-painter in oils we
have had since Lambert. The National Gal-
lery bought “Morning.” Leason exhibited
also a number of small ' oils, mostly land-
scapes, varied in subject and handling and
all high in quality. Two of his careful pen-
drawings have been purchased by the Gal-
lery trustees. The better one is' “The Ex-
plorers”; but both are a trifle labored.
Norman Carter’s “Bella Donna” is not
fully successful. Yet it has many admirable
qualities, aud the Trustees were correct
when they bought it.
Auld's large landscape, “Day in Spring,”
falls short of being admirable. There is a
tender feeling for landscape, but no creative
power. Amongst the few charming oils ex-
hibited by Auld "The Hill Track” is the
best. His water-colors fall short of his oils.
Florence Rodway’s panel of pastels is
pleasing. Iler technique, which a few years
ago was too obvious, has now become sub-
dued. "An Interval” is an interesting com-
position. The drawing is fresh and sponta-
neous, the color subtle and reserved. There
is a simple, unaffected dignity about Florence
Rodway’s work which places it far ahead of
G urn brae-: S tewa rf s pastels.
Hans Ileysen’s water-colors are typical,
lo one who has followed his work there is
no fresh outlook. I I s work has matured
and he has mastered his medium.
Of Hardy Wilson’s three water-colors,
No. 199. “Sherwood Tileries,” is easily the
best. "The Kiln,” purchased by the Trus-
tees, runs third in order of merit.
Howard Ashton’s numerous pastels are
varied and unequal in quality. They are too
“comfortable’ and confident. There is not
enough effort. Ashton could go much fur-
ther if he cared to exert himself.
Lionel Lindsay’s water-colors are not so
high in quality as in previous shows. Some
of them are careless in workmanship and a
number lack in subtlety. No. 12—“ Tw-
ilight: The (tl(l .Mine”—-is the best. "Pagan-
ini on the Iligh Road” is also nicely handled.
The artist’s etchings and dry points this
year are excellent. They are individual, de-
lightfully free in handling and they over-
shadow every other etcher’s work in the
exhibition. The knowledge gained from the
Greene handling of water-colors has been a
distinct gain to Lionel Lindsay. Ilis line
has developed. He is not hampered by his
medium. He has mastered it. In “Mardi
Gras” and “The Bishop’s Door” there is bril-
liant execution. “Evening Harmony” is a
delightful romantic landscape.
Sydney lire Smith’s etchings do not come
up to his exhibit in the last Society show.
He displays a few water-color drawings,
somewhat sombre in tone and quality. No.
47, “Entrance Did Colonial Treasury,” and
No. 4.i, “Still Life Group,” are the best.
.1. R. Eldersbaw has at last developed a
technique of his own' but he needs to sub-
due it. in order to progress. Now that he
is technically equipped, it is “tin to him."
The Gallery purchased No. 111, “Ilarlom
Morning.”
The Trustees purchased a good sample of
Percy Lindsay landscape; and from Albert
Collins a couple of canvases were bought.
.Vs for Lloyd Rees, it’s time he gave no jjis
romantic landscapes and expressed something
new. No. 1(>1, “The House in the Bay,” is
the best of his lam-work, and is a fine., imag-
inative composition. Ilis two essays in oil
should not have been exhibited until the
difficulty of the medium had been overcome.
The best of \ ioln Quaifq’s. water-colors
is ‘The Little Farm, ’ a study in greys.
Joyce. Jennings exhibits some well-drawn
illustrations, one of which found favor with
the Trustees.
The applied-art section is of unusual in-
terest, many fine examples of pottery and
textiles being lent by private individuals and
Messrs. Anthony Horderns’ art gallery. Miss
Rhoda Wagjis’ jewellery is attractive again,
and the work of J. W. R. Linton is excel-
lent. Bernice Edwell exhibits four minia-
tures. not so bad in quality this year
Amongst the exhibit is a small collection
of books lent by the Public Library—one
of the finest examples is a Bible bound in
kangaroo skin, with much lmnd-tooling on
the covers. It is amazing that some of our
arts-and-Crafts girls have not taken up
bookbinding more seriously. There is a
demaud for well-bound books, and at pre-
sent most of them are sent to England to
be done. Why doesn’t an enterprising arts-
fl.-nd-cra.fts girl study it and organise her
tellow-me.mbers so that the work can be
accomplished here?
“H.II. : The great and beneficent price-
fixing powers lately issued a ukase to Sussex-
street. Sydney: “Potatoes must not cost
more than £lB per ton.” And the answer
came : Certainly. Potatoes will not be more
than £lB per ton. but there aren’t any.” The
fact is that the recent consignments from
\ ictoria and Tasmania cost £23 to land, and
when the growers heard of the new rates
they sent their goods elsewhere. But, after
all, potatoes aren’t the big crime even if
they are dear. The money paid for them is
spent here. It mostly goes to small, deserv-
ing men. The Government gets a lot of it
back in taxes, and the growers are useful as
defenders of the country. The prices which
the official fixers should have a shot at are
those charged for imported clothing, paner,
loans and the like, and for the hire of 'im-
ported ships. The enormous prices paid .for
them go out of the country to pav taxes
to foreign nations and arm possible enemies
of the future.


m
s:
<
A Murdoch Panama
for the Hot Days.
Just what you need, sir,
for the sizzling hot days.
Cool and shady, comfort-
able and serviceable.
Unequalled value at the
prices we quote.
Call to-day or send your
order to Desk It.
GENUINE SOUTH AMERICAN PANAMAS, in smart City
Shapes—closely woven and nicely bleached.
Brim widths, 21, 2 i and 2$ inches. First-class trimmings,
black silk band and sweat leather.
Sizes Cl to 71.
Prices
Superior quality
21/-, 22/0, 25/-
30/-, 35/-, 42/-
ALL PANAMAS POST FREE.
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
<3i!'/er'
Tea Set" £5-0
Solid Silverware.
Drummond’s establishment affords a very
comprehensive selection of articles suitable for
presentations, home decoration, etc., appealing
to many tastes. The chaste designs of their
•Solid Silverware, and the quality and fineness
of the metals employed in their manufacture
combine to give the firm’s wares their lasting
qualities, individuality and general excellence.
Whilst these and other details necessarily affect
the cost of production, no material difference in
Selling Prices will be fotmd in comparison with
similar articles elsewhere.
Diamond and Gem Rings,
Diamond, Pearl and Gem Jewellery,
Watches and Clocks- - -
Tortoiseshell and Ivory Ware,
Gold and Silver Ware,
etc. Travelling Bags. etc.
WM. DRUMMOND & CO.,
344-346 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
KMNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
10=INCH
DOUBLE = SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH
Ccrlumbia
i? Records
FROM
41-
EACH.
Some Splendid COLUMBIA RECORDS
of Grand Opera Selections.
All at 8/6 each.
ELSA STRALIA, Soprano.
7191.—Ernani—Ernani, Ernani. Involami (Verdi). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7193. —Semiramide—Bel raggio (Rossini). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7194. —Aida—Ritorna Vincitor (Verdi). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7190. —Cavalleria Rustioana: Voi lo Sapete (Mascagni). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7197. —11 Trovatore: Taeea la nolle plaeida (How peaceful was the night) (Verdi). In
Italian, with Orchestra.
MARIA BARRIENTOS.
The World-Famous Coloratura Soprano.
7181. —Eucia di Laminermoor: Rondo e Cadenza (The Mad Scene) (Donizetti). In
Italian, with Orchestra and Flute Obbligato.
7183. —Eucia di Eanimerinoor: Cavatina, Regnava nel Silenzio (Silence o’er all)
(Donizetti). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7183. —Pearl of Brazil. Charmant Oiseau (Charming Bird) (David). In French, with
Orchestra and Flute Obbligato.
7184. —The East. Rose of Slimmer (Qui Sola, vergiu rosa). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7185. —Eakme: Bell Song, Ou va l|i Jeune Hindoue (Delibes). In Italian, with Orchestra.
HIPOLITO LAZARO, Tenor.
7176. —Aida—“Celeste Aida” (Verdi). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7177. —E’Afrieana: “O Paradiso” (Meyerbeer). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7178. —E’Puritani: “A te o eara” (Often, Dearest) (Bellini). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7179. —Martha: “M’appari” (Ah. so pure) (Flotow). In Italian, with Orchestra.
7180. —Faust: Salve. Dimora casta e pura (Hail, thou dwelling, pure and holy)
(Gounod). In Italian, with orchestra.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SVDNEI'. N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dulling House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheiin Ply.,
Ltd., 173 William Street. Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE. S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
\
Crt>
pgflßM
5
*^
as
H.kt
If
- . ••* •;
. ‘*V »ltf?
Here’s Evidence for
Your Judgment—
Every day leading Woolgrowers are
sending us Glowing Reports on the
Efficiency of “VALLO.
These men of experience bought
“VALLO” to TEST our claims—to
COMPARE it with other Dips. They
knew just what qualities to look for in a reliable Dip—
AND THEY FOUND THEM IN FULL MEASURE IN
sdf
Powder
SHEEP DIP
CERTAIN DEATH to Ticks, Lice, etc. — Long-lasting Effectiveness-
Protection right from Dipping to Shearing — Economy.
Naturally, they’re going to use “VALLO” this Dipping.
Have YOU made YOUR Tests? Have YOU made YOUF
comparison ?
DECIDE TO DO SO NOW-and YOUR next order will
be “VALLO."
All Stores, or A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
II


THE TOUCH TELES
Glide smoothly, never grate.
Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers,
Architects, Drawing Students, Busi-
ness Men—these are just a few of the
classes who buy VENUS Pencils regu-
larly.
are not a luxury, they are a
necessity for the best work.
4
s>
r
Made in 17 degrees, GB to
9H, and 3 styles of Copying
OF ALL STATIONERS AND ARTISTS’
MATERIAL DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA AND NEAV ZEALAND.
at
=»s
Throat aw
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
Keep Free
from Colds
Prevention Is Better than Cure.
To resist colds, influenza, bronchitis, there is no-
thing better than a course of Angier’s Emulsion.
Its soothing, healing effects and its tonic invigorat-
ing influence upon all the bodily functions make it
unequalled for the prevention of colds and catarrhal
affections. If the cold or cough has already com-
menced, Angier’s is the best means of throwing it
off and repairing the damage it has caused. Phy-
sicians and hospitals have used Angier’s for over
twenty-five years.
Send name and address.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO.
4d. postage, and mention -this paper.
LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
From Poverty Point to Luxury— a meal at the “PAVlLlON”—Sydney’s Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay.
POVERTY
POINT MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exguste
Died at Waterfall. R. F. Anson, the
comedian who appeared witli Oscar Asche’s
co. on its visit to Australia. He was a son
of G. W. Anson, of the Brough and Bouci-
eault era, and promised to do big things;
but consumption laid its finger on him, and
blighted his career.
“R.S.V.P.” : How many musical critics are
there who, while admitting to their inner
souls that Dolores is a better artist than
Melba, will ever declare themselves in print
to that effect? Consider the moving effect
of Dolores’ music on her audiences, and
observe the same sort of audience “sitting
under” Melba. Melba gets tons of applause ;
but half the really musical-souled section
of the crowd goes away complaining of a
hollow feeling. Dolores seems to fill the void
every time. Melba, alive to the value of
advertisement, is quite willing to do a bit
of it herself in interviews and so on, and
it’s an old gag among pressmen that the
only one to whom she is really polite is the
puff-par man. Dolores, hiding the light of
her lovely voice under a bushel of privacy,
would be more polite to the scribe than
Melba, but she would do it to be polite, not
for what she could get out of it.
“S. Snell”: Melbourne managers are hang-
ing out notices: “Patrons are requested not
to bring peanuts into this theatre.” It is
high time. Nothing is more disconcerting to
a person deeply interested in a performance
than the champ champ of the peanut maniac.
“DADDIES,” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
George Bryant
as James Croc-
het, hater of
women and kids.
The peanut is not only noisy, it is odorifer-
ous, and when half the audience is going
strong on the esculent tuber, I realise what
Bret Harte meant when he wrote the linn,
“And of armed men the hum.” But it seems
that I have overlooked the chief objection
to the peanut from the managerial point of
view. The fruit is barred because it is a
disturbing element, and provokes more fights
than strong drink, one manager assures me.
The trouble always arises in the same way,
through the insanely playful disposition of
the ’nut glutton to drop shells down the
neck of the person directly in front. It
would appear that not one man or woman in
a thousand can be content and peace-loving
with shells of the baked peanut gritting be-
tween shirt and hide. ‘‘We had three dis-
turbances over this in one evening last
week,” said the manager. “One disturbing
element was a large lady in evening undress
who had had the shells dropped into her
draperj from aloft, and who, in the absence
of the actual offender, wanted to test the
soundness of the walls with my head.” This
I take it is quite the latest 'form of shell-
shock.
O.K. : Poor R. F. Anson, who died last
week, showed some ability as an actor in
Oscar A sell e s Co., but the figure he cut on
the stage was always associated with his
lung trouble. You never got away from the
idea that he must be dying of consumption.
Ile was a truly startling scarecrow as
Launeelot Gobbo, in “The Merchant,” and
m the scene which began with his soliloquy
<>n bolting from Shylock’s employ and led
up to his interview with his old father, he
was very oddly grotesque.
“Three-Double-o-Four” : The' Perth Oper-
tlc Society has just done seven nights of
C elher s Dorothy.” Violet Concanen scored
well as Dorothy, and Doris Deary made a
jut. as Lydia, So did Jack Dwyer as
Lurcher. On the boom of encouragement the
Society of Concert Artists will stage “San
Joy and “The Mikado.”
Norbell : Peggy Pryde, who has just
started again on the Fuller circuit, made her
lirst Australian appearance in Adelaide, at
the New Tivoli, on March 1, 1902, under
Harry Kiekards’s management.
Oscar Asche will probably show Australia
i nil Cniu Chow,” even though lie does not
coing to play in it himself. The two travel-
“Daddies.” at
Sydney Palace.
Ronald Rushton as
the faithful Parker.
ling cos. now playing in the English pro-
vinces are under contract to give it exactly
as Asche does in London. Mrs. Lily Bray-
ton Asehe, by the way, is back into the cast
after a long and bad illness.
“Costs” had a field-day last week over an
originating summons in the will of the late
J. C. Williamson. Seven counsel, three of
them K.C.’s, and seven solicitors were en-
gaged.
“Private Boxer”: Bert Levy, of Australia,
still in vaudeville in Uncle Sam’s country, is
now doing the American theatrical notes for
the English pros.’ newspaper, The Stage.
This is the same journal, by the way, for
which Eardley Turner has for some years
kept up the Australian end.
“0.K.”: When a famous operatic artist
dies at an advanced age the obituary notices
are mostly written from hearsay, more or
less ignorant, and the criticisms of a byy
gone age. Hence we get such judgments as,
“As far as the musical world can tell, there
is no other singer whose purely vocal art
may be compared with Patti’s. It was per-
fection.” Speaking from dim recollections
of Adelina Patti at her best, in both opera
and concert platform performances, and with-
out pretending to a technical knowledge of
mechanics in warbling, I would say that she
was famous for her combination of attrac-
tions rather than for her vocal art in par-
ticular. She herself attributed her success
to her all-round equipment. She had a de-
lightfully sweet soprano voice of wide range
and was a naturally bird-like singer; she had
a pretty little face and figure, and was a
convincingly graceful actress in her favorite
parts —young-girl parts in operas which are
now mostly out of date; but I doubt whether
Patti, at 35, could have warbled the Mad
Scene from “Lucia,” or any other florid
trillsome number from the old Italian school,
with the wondrous skill of Melba, and it is
certain that the quality of her voice was
not distinctive like Melba’s. She was the
most precocious of operatic “stars.” Her
fame was established when she was still in
her 'teens, and no musical critic seems dis-
posed to admit that the perfection of vocal
art can be attained by a very young woman.
It must be remembered that she was not
regarded as an unrivalled concert artist, even
as far back as 45 years ago. when the public
idolised her. Her fee at that rime would
be £2OO for two appearances on an afternoon
programme at, say, the Alexandra Palace;
£6O extra for the two inevitable encores.
Well, Christine Nillson and Albani were said
to command the same fee for the same work
on the same platform. And the public didn’t
talk of the "wonderful” singing of sweet
Adelina Patti. Tradition gave the palm to
Jenny Lind, an artist born 23 years earlier
than Patti. Indeed many fervent admirers
of Adelina said that her lame sister. Car-
lotta, was an equally brilliant vocalist, but
these may have been only the same sort of
people who were ready to find excellence in
the voices of Amy Castles’s sisters. Adelina
Patti's public career was considerably
lengthened, I fancy, by the assiduous atten-
tions of her second husband, Nicholini. the
tenor. He attended to her dieting like a
nurse, and was always at hand to interpose
a screen between herself and a draught. Her
taste in husbands was cosmopolitan—firstly,
the Frenchman, Marquis de Caux, whom she
divorced (or was divorced by) in the interests
of her operatic lover, the Italian, and finally
Baron Cederstrom, the consoler of her old
age.
If Trinity College, Melbourne, had had a
press-agent with the gift of prophecy he
might have said some interesting things
about the student cast that played Brown-
ing's "Strafford” in 18!>7. Be van. now
Northern Territory Judge, was the Strafford
of the occasion. Poole, the King Charles,
has just been elevated to the Bench in Adel-
aide. and one of the minor characters in
that long-ago show is now Bishop Long.
“Femina” : Does the J.C.W. firm urge its
girls to model their work on the exact lines
of some preceding favorite? I notice an
extraordinary lack of originality in Austra-
lian actresses who have lately come into
prominence. When Dorothy Brunton became
an assured success, quite a number' of her
co-workers appeared with the Dorothy curls
a lid the Dorothy smile, and used the Dorothy
methods of song and dance. Cecil Bradley
remains the most prominent Brunton sub-
stitute. Maudie Amery now so closely re-
sembles Maggie Dickinson that when they
appeared recently in the same pantomime
I found Out afterwards that I had applauded
Maudie’s dancing under the impression that
I was helping to encore Maggie. The latest
imitation is Dorothy Purdell who. in “Going
lip,” is a duplicate of Madge Elliott.
“Ike Pagliacci”: The movie-producer
from Yankland is used to Big Things. That’s
one reason why Australian capital is. afraid'
of him. In the matter of language his
cousin of the spoken-show is by comparison
as mild as a curate. When he has more
swank than genius he is a joke to everyone
except the shareholders he works for. Some
time ago I watched an alleged perdoocer
at work on an interior. He sat in an arm-
chair with a megaphone on either side of
him, though the actor's were only 30ft. away
and kept on asking questions in ordinary
voices. Presently a broom was needed. Up
went a megaphone. “I-lully gee! What
sort of a country is this? Haven’t we got
a broom? Go get a broom. Get a whole
flock of brooms.” Shortly afterwards a pro-
perty man staggered in with an armful. On
another occasion a few feet of film were
needed showing the hero starting away in a
motor. The perdoocer placed four camera
men at different angles, megaphoned the
actor to let her go, and yelled: “Shoot,
guys !” to the photographers. The important
and thrilling moments over, he said plea-
santly : “Waal, boys, I guess I got about
eight hundred feet that time, and I’ll use
no more’n eighteen.”
“Norbell”: It was the last night of a
long and successful run of “The Romany
Rye” at the old 11. M. Theatre, Sydney, and
George Rignold was in sportive mood. As
the gipsy hero he was to be tied up in the
cellar of a waterside den. Mrs. Rignold, as
an old hag, was to drug him, when a fancied
resemblance to her long-lost cheild would re-
strain her, and she would tell him “all.”
Thereupon he was to play ’possum, whilst
two burly ruffians (“Jimmy” Hazlitt and
Frank Hareourt) were to carry him up the
steps. Then a “revolve” was to occur, show-
ing the Thames. The two ruffians were to
enter a boat with their victini, and when
the boat reached C the hero was to stand
up, knock both ruffians into the water, and
paddle off to safety, amidst loud applause.
That was the usual programme, but G.R.
revised it for that evening, and gave an
entirely new reading. When Hazlitt and
Hareourt, both strong men, started to climb
the stairs with their j>rey, Rignold lay limp
and inert, and his captors had to exert all
their strength to lumber his 16-stone-odd up
the ladder, whilst the playful G.R. made
sotto-voce threats of what he’d do “if you
two —gentlemen—-drop me !” After a tre-
mendous heave they got him up to the plat-
form, and the revolve occurred. When the
boat reached the centre of the stage Rignold
suddenly jumped up and took a header over-
board and out of sight. Hazlitt looked at
Harcourt, then dived over after his chief, and
the other tough followed. The puzzled
audience saw the curtain fall on an empty
boat, drifting rapidly off stage.
“CARMEN,” WILLIAMSON GRAND
OPERA COMPANY.
Don Jose (Ralph Errolle) becomes infatu-
ated with Carmen (Leah Myers).
“Ox" : “2200” anticipates that film managers
will want French artists to satisfy the
taste acquired by 200,000 Diggers who saw
life in Paris. The Fuller brethren tumbled
to that and introduced Georges Roger and
Mile. Riense, who work comic stuff entirely
in French along their circuit, I can imagine
few respectable things more Parisian than
the little lady’s flowered bloomers and
wriggly Salom6 parody.
“Harrison O.”: “0.1 v.” (B. 25/9/’l9) as-
serts that “ ‘Hamlet,’ by Thomas Kyd, was
certainly not ‘a favorite play in 1589’,” and
alleges that “the only Shakspearean authority
who pinned his faith to the vague Kyd tradi-
tion was the untrustworthy Malone.” To
quote Knight as an “authority,” while refer-
ring slightingly to “the untrustworthy
Malone —a scholar whose original research
proved of incalculable value to later biogra-
phers—is, to put it mildly, “over the odds.”
Moreover, Malone is not “the only Shaks-
pearean authority” who supports “the vague
Kyd tradition.” Austin Brereton, in his
historical review of “Hamlet.” wrote that
Ivyd’s play “was certainly a favorite in the
year 1589, ’ and Sir Sidney Hee (whose
statps as the greatest living authority on
Shakspeare w r ill not, I presume, be ques-
tioned) in “A Life of William Shakspeare”
says‘ Kyd may be justly credited with the
first invention of a play of ‘Hamlet’ on the
tragic lines which Shakspeare’s genius ex-
tended and subtilised.” Lee even suggests
that Immortal William acted in Kyd’s “Ham-
let, ’ which, he states, “was revived on June
9, 1594, at Newington Butts theatre, when
the Lord Chamberlain’s .alien, Shakspeare’s
company, were co-operafing with the Lord
Admiral’s men.” A performance of Kyd’s
‘ Hamlet” is mentioned by Thomas Lodge in
“Wits Miserie,” published in 1596; and Lee
gives chapter and verse to show that it was
revived in Paris Garden Theatre in 1601 and
at a Shoreditch playhouse in the same year.
Divine William’s play was first acted in
1602.
“Vaudeville Veteran”: London’s new
theatre, the Winter Garden, reminds me of
Berlin’s .famous Wintergarten, the house
where Saharet, the Bendigo dancer, had such
a triumph. She used to start several fights
each night by kicking her satin slipper
among the assembled Huns. In front of the
stage were tables at which Fritz could in-
dulge in his great pastime of gluttony. One
evening the Australian’s slipper flopped into
a Herr’s soup. With hog-like gallantry he
filled it to the brim, and, pledging the dancer,
swallowed the broth amid great excitement.
A later Wintergarten success was Max
Linder, the Frenchman who was the cinema’s
top-line clown when Chaplin was working
with Karno for tramfares.
THE STARS IN THEIR COURSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Theatrical stars booked to appear at Portsmouth
flew from London.’’
The gilded Jolmnie seized her hand,
And prayed the extra-lady fair
To leave the wicked chorus, and
With him to seek a purer air.
“Oh, fly with me!” the lover cried;
But Pansj' pouted in disdain,
“I couldn’t do so if 1 tried,
Besides, you’ve got no aeroplane.
“The . purer air you recommend
Is not attained in motor-cars,
But may be found if I ascend
High altitudes with rising stars!
“A motor-drive’s all very well,
But now it’s quite behind the times,
Like chaperons, the curfew bell,
And harlequins in pantomimes.
“I've hitched my waggon to the star —
1 hope you won’t be very cross —
I leave you to your motor-car,
To-night I’m flying with the boss.’’ 1
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


m
7%
■
Si
:
*•
mm
1 •
■
H
-
: Vi'-
.
■
I
1
J
-
>:4-
*•
H*s£s3f V + * * {'
■ ■■■■■l I HH|
te?.; *. r '* * ,
■HI
Hi;-.
■:* '
.
. :fi
i 4 j ,
•, * d
$
■ ■
•.■■■: : :•
■
m
H
>•
> '/
m
m
Hi
$
a
■
ililfci
way
AX ftlfy
'fw&J
IX cj^
wiLmm
;k
ifelffi Mi.
ESSENTIALS in TYRE BUILDING
Any Tyre Manufacturer can obtain first quality rubber
and fabric by paying the price, but when the tyre has to stand up to
Australian road conditions, careful attention must be paid to the
equally important matter of the skill of the tyre builder
When the materials for the manufacture of Perdriau Tyres are passed by
our inspectors, we know we have the finest material obtainable. We know
also that our secret tread compound will outwear any other tread.
Then the tyre is built up by workmen who have undergone a thorough
training ; built up under the supervision of experts who know intimately
the conditions under which the tyres have to serve.
Fit a Perdriau next time and you will find satisfaction in it’s sturdy
road service. Your Garage can supply you.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, and PERTH
Post a Post Card for a Price List.
Perdria
w&
&
sd


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Austrian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE anti COOLCARPIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redlern. Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS 00 ROUtjl? ?
zecoAZ
I FWISfcWftITTY MAKERS
Totalisator Points
The Premier Automatic Totalisator Will
Operate at Randwick on Saturday Next.
The machine is run under contract by Automatic Totalisators Ltd., under the
supervision of the Officials of the A.J.C.
The machine is automatically locked at the starting time of the race by one
of the stipendiary stewards, and no alteration in the figures showing on the face
of the machine can be made until the machine is unlocked after the race.
THE DIVIDENDS ARE CHECKED BY AN OFFICIAL
OF THE A.J.C.
The numbers on the face of the machine are checked by an official of the A.J.C.
No ticket can be issued without its instantaneous registration on the lace ot
the machine, arid no registration can appear on the face of the machine unless a
ticket is issued. , _ T , , T 1 , . ,
The Premier Totalisator is operated in New South Wales at Kandwic-K,
Rosehill, Canterbury Park, Newcastle and Wallsend only.
The Premier Totalisator is Entirely Automatic.
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LTD.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
There had never been a dead-lieat in an
Australian Derby until last Saturday. It has only
occurred once in the history of the English Dolby
35 years ago. And yet the race was a poor one.
Practically throughout there were only two in it.
Compared with last Craven Plate, when lorn nit
the line in a heap, or with the Epsbm, m which at
least six had a winning chance at seven furlongs and
four at the distance, this Derby was colorless. Of
course, the pair that (lid race made a great finish
of it. Neither flinched under a test which strained
endurance to the limit. John Brown chose moic
wisely than he knew when he put Albert Wood on
Richmond Main. The idea was that Wood, being
longer in the leg' and stronger than Meddiek, would
get more out of the colt who demands vigorous
treatment. But Wood happens to be left-handed.
Had it been otherwise his whip would have been
useless to him, for he was on the outside and close
to Harrison. In that case Artilleryman, with a
monopoly of assault, must certainly have won.
Harrison was blamed for ringing up full speed
ahead too soon —he ran Artilleryman out two lengths
ahead of Richmond Main at five furlongs. Had he
waited, so it is argued, he must have won. But
whatever advantage Richmond Main got from being
called on for more pace was counter-balanced by the
disadvantage of having had to make the running up
to that point. If Artilleryman’s strong suit is his
finishing run he was well served by the slow gait
(nearly 14sec. a furlong) at which he was able to
travel the first half-mile. As Artilleryman was
going strongly, and as the trip had been leisurely,
and as there were some unknown quantities in the
field, Harrison did the reasonable thing in hurrying
to the rails. And, anyhow, didn’t Artilleryman from
thence onward, do everything to show that his pilot
was justified in believing he would see the journey
out? There does not exist a single reason for
supposing - that if Artilleryman had remained astern
and run up to the leader in the straight that lie
could have then shaken the Prince Foote colt off.
Richmond Main is a good sticker.
Of Millieme’s third in the Derby the only thing
to be said is that it saved him from complete dis-
grace. He gave no trouble. Posadoon, who finished
just behind him, is not a Derby colt. Pershore ran
like a hurdler. When McLachlan asked him to join
up at the half-mile there was nothing doing. Gam-
bler’s Gold never had a hope. The idea of there
being a multitude of first-class three-year-olds on
the premises got badly shattered.
Wolaroi began well in the Epsom and ended well,
carrying the heaviest weight delivered at the front
since Marvel’s year, and doing the deed in dull
going in “384” —time that has only been beaten
twice in the "history of the race. For the first
occasion two of the horses placed in an Epsom
carried over 9st., and the other Bst. It was also
the only Epsom but one (in Hyman’s year) from
which the 7st. brigade were excluded at the end
of the argument. Nearly all the top weights, ex-
cept Rebus, hopped smartly out just behind the
Doncaster and Newmarket winners, Hem and Molly’s
Robe. These two were melting at half-way under
the pressure of Wolaroi, Quaestor, Panacre and
Greenstead. Wolaroi swept round the turn alone,
and as Panacre evaporated Rebus and Sydney Dam-
sel emerged from the welter in which they had
been tangled. Quaestor reached the champion just
below the distance, but failed to stay there, and
Greenstead, beginning to falter, the black and
McLachlan hit the line half a length to the good.
Rebus- was doing best of the lot over the last fur-
long, but had been tangled up too long to have a
chance of reaching the leader. Laddie Blue got
extinguished at the start. Dick Meagher pulled up
in a bad way. Shaded Light was never sighted
0(1 the trip. Pah King was well backed, and had
a good place at an early stage of the proceedings,
but the others moved too rapidly. Wolaroi brought
his collections on behalf of Dan Seaton to over
.£19,000.
Ike & Co. opened the Spring Stakes with Gloaming
at 5 to 4 “on” and Poitrel 3 to 1. Soon it was
evens and 2’s, and a heap of money arrived for
Sasariof. Except to those who could remember what
Poitrel did to Desert Gold a year before in the
same race Gloaming seemed a moral. And it looked
that way when the Maorilander reached the Leger
rails sailing along in front and Poitrel well back.
But the abbreviated property of the Moses brothers
suddenly swooped into notice, and Deeley, drawing
the fiail on Gloaming, they fought it out from the
distance. But the horse that could shake off Poitrel
at the end of a mile and a half has not yet tran-
spired. Cetigne’s third was quite respectable. Sas-
anoff, who took the race in 1916, did no good
this time. There were 10 runners, and poor old For-
tune Hunter saw eight tails ahead. Carbern had an
uninterrupted view of nine.
* * * *
Bookmaker Joe Lemon dropped big money
over Rebus in the Epsom. However, he piled a small
fortune on him for the Metrop., and this time the
imported freak scored. On Monday he won again.
The public benefited little, mainly because the
horse s preparation had been for the mile sprint, and
in anj' ease 9st. 101 b. seemed an impossible burden.
But, seemingly, weight makes no difference to this
horse, the greatest handicapper in living memory.
Only once before has 9st. 101 b. been carried to
the front in the Metrop.: it was done half a century
ago by The Barb. The race was run over two miles
then, as it was when Abercorn won with 9st. 71b. in
’B9. Since the distance was shaved down to a mile
and a half, in ’92, a winner with 9st. or over had
only transpired on three occasions—Paris 9st. 21b.,
Mooltan 9st. 21b. and Malt King 9st. lib.
It was a rage of many surprises. Shaded Light,
the mysterious animal in Marsden’s stable that had
been boomed as an Epsom certainty, starting at
100’s to 1 or something, fled away to the front
and stayed there .for a mile and a quarter. Cetigne
carried his big load up among the pacemakers at an
early stage, and Thana and Prince Viridis were
bustled along with unexpected promptitude. When
they landed in the straight (Lord Acre, Thana,
Braille and Arch Marella having fallen) Shaded Light
punctured and the real struggle began. At this
stage the Maorilander Afterglow, Kenilford, Sandbee,
Amazonia, British Arch, Cetigne and Rebus were
doing best—at the last furlong Afterglow and Kenil-
ford. Here Rebus -became more expeditious and,
as Afterglow faded, he closed on Kenilford at the
half-distance, and, galloping as freely as if he
on! v had a featherweight on top, pushed his head in
front of the leader. Amazonia, a long-priced out-
sider, had a bad trip and was a meritorious third.
Toison d’Or never had Buckley’s. lan ’Or fizzled
badly. Finmark, who “should have won the two
Derbies last year” but didn’t, saw them all home.
Greenstead atoned for himself on Monday, and
again showed what a smart sprinter he is, by tak-
ing the Shorts with 9st. 131 b. aboard in “12.”
Incidentally, the Maoriland brigade came a terrific
cropper oyer the Spanner. He turned up fourth.
At the V.11.C. meeting last Saturday,
things were again too easy for the Bradfield stable
and for followers of recent form. The jumping
“double” —Hurdle and. Steeple—went to Leddington
aiid Parmen, who were repeating their wins of the
previous week-end. Leddington, to be sure, had
only half a head to spare at the finish of the hurdled
journey, but it sufficed. Parmen, on the other
hand, got safely over the Flemington sticks and
won in great style from a poor field, suggesting that
he may make a name for himself as a ’chaser. In
the 10 furlongs event Lucknow, a warm favorite,
ran a capital trial for the Caulfield Cup, inasmuch
as there were 25 horses in the field and he was
meeting the best of them on worse than Cup terms.
Always in the first half dozen of the runners Luck-
now made his effort at the distance and came home
with a rattle. The English horse is a very different
proposition to what he was last autumn, and,
although he appears considerably short of pinkness
in condition, he should be able to run a great mile
and a half on the 18tli. The presumption is that
Lucknow doesn’t want a lot of work and would not
remain long in the best of nick if he ever got there,
but he is a brilliant galloper and a handy battler in
a big field. Given good luck in the meantime, and
on the day, Lucknow will go very near it for the
Cup. Should he have another outing this Saturday
the dollar of the commentator will be on him.
Lucknow’s stable-companions. Night Watch and
Chrome, competed against . Sir Ibex, Luteplayer,
Menin, Eusebius and others in the October Stakes,
where the journey is 12 furlongs and stamina counts.
The distance may have been a trifle too far for Lute-
player, who made a great pace and finished third,
easing up at the finish. Sir Ibex appeared to
break a blood-vessel and Menin was always too fat
and scant of breath for the arduous task. A beauti-
ful grey horse is Menin, and capable of much im-
provement before Melbourne Cup Day. But he
seems to be careful of one of his feet, like an aider-
man with a touch of the gout.
Only Chrome and Night Watch had anything to do
with the finish in the October Stakes. For a moment
it looked as though the clumsy son of Bright Steel
was going to win, but as soon as he was closely
tackled by Night Watch the Chrome backers said
good-bve to their money. Whether he wanted
more dash or a stronger jockey on his back mattered
not to the losers. Bullock brought Night Watch along
in a style worthy of the prad’s mother, Wakeful,
whilst boy Duncan on the big horse seemed to be
unable to “hold him together.” Chrome didn’t appear
to need punching along, as when he lost the Caulfield
Cup of 1917 to Bronzetti. That he floundered so
badly suggests that he was feeling the strain on
one of his forelegs. Nobody had seen the big fellow
perform in quite that same way before. Whatever
may have been the cause of Chrome’s unsatisfactory
finish the merit of Night Watch’s win couldn’t be
denied. This Saturday’s running will probably throw
a little more light on the subject, and the Eclipse
Stakes next Wednesday may offer a further tip.
Meanwhile Lucknow and Night Watch are making a
lot of other Victorian fancies look very sick. If
they are to be beaten it will probably be by Sur-
veyor, or something from the A.J.C. meeting. Any-
how the field for the Caulfield Cup is not likely to
be unduly crowded, and it must be remembered that
only twice in the last seven years has a visiting
horse got home.
The Caulfield meeting has a good pro-
gramme for the first day. The Stakes, Guineas and
I’oorak Handicap will all be worth considering, and
the chances are that a very decided first favorite for
the Cup will eventuate before Monday next. Last
year the very decided favorite won.
* * * *
At the S.A. Jockey Club’s Spring meeting
the consistent Dependence took the Glenelg Handicap
(1) mile). He seems a class above the other “distance”
horses in S.A., and yet may not be class enough
for Caulfield. Lord Setay’s and Crusader’s meeting
in the S.A.J.C. Derby created quite a stir in the
Holy City, but the St. Anton colt has improved out
of inind since Crusader beat him in the Adelaide
Guineas, and fye made hacks of his field, Crusader
finishing second four lengths astern. In the Morphett-
ville Plate, for two-year-olds, the Pistol filly Helen
Vane, to the general surprise and disgust, ran no-
where, the race going to Ambuscade, who, in com-
mon with Lord Setae and Lady Anton, winner of
the Sturt Handicap, claims St. Anton as her sire.
Molly’s Rofie’s brother. Lord Syce (Syce
—Microbe) took the Trial Handicap (6 fur.) at the
Q.T.C. meeting at Eagle Farm on Saturday.
Although small he has plenty of pace and is capable
of further improvement. The backers of Abgull had
an unpleasant surprise in the October Handicap to
see the short-priced favorite out of a place, the race
going to a comparative outsider in Katuna. In the
Q. Guineas Eudorfurey and Ercanil left the field
standing, and Eudorfurey in turn left the son of Lin-
aere well astern and won in the fair time of lmin.
4(Usee, for the mile.
* * * * J.
In Sydney premiership cricket on Satur-
day B. L. McCoy smote a merry 117 (out of 187)
for Balmain v. Glebe. He is of the younger genera-
tion and is among the oligibles for the A.I.F. XI
v. N.S.W. Last year
(his first in premier-
ship cricket) he
knocked up 87 v.
Sydney in his opening
match, and averaged
31.12 for the season.
With Gladesville Hos-
pital in the past two
years he scored 3.065
runs, averaging 82.82.
The wicket-keeping of
Mclvew (Glebe) was
another feature of this
match, the only sundry
being a “no-ball.” C.
G. Macartney (Gor-
don) also signalled
his home-coming with
a great effort of eigiit
for 52 v. Waveric.v.
Of course the wicket
was “doing a bit.”
B. L. COLLINS ,
Captain A.I.F. XI.
North Sydney, which by the way, has the
weakest team “ever” on paper, had only one after-
noon’s play against Central Cumberland, but man-
aged to beat that XI bv three Wickets and three
runs, thanks to the bowling of King (five wickets
for 37) and B. Long (four for 35).
P. D. Docker, playing for Wests, who now have
Warren Bardsley, went through Paddington, taking
six wickets for 17 runs. Noble’s team replied with
68 to West’s 155, thus losing by 87.
Folkard’s five wickets for 33 runs did as much
as McCoy’s effort above mentioned, to give
Balmain its 50-run win over Glebe. Folkard is
about the most consistent player in club cricket.
His weakness' is his fielding, which has done much
to keep him in the background of rep. cricket.
’Varsity and Petersham played a close game,
the latter winning by six runs; Best collected
41 (not out) for the losers, who expected to have to
rely on Bogle for most of their runs. He helped
himself to only 31. Middle Harbor has the strong-
est batting side in the competition, and bowling is
also of a high standard. The team put up 263
against Sydney, who replied with 151. Waddy for
M. was top scorer with a forceful 96, and Ander-
son with him, got 68. Scott proved a terror on the
soft wicket at Rushcutter’s Bay, and took six Sydney
wickets for 41.
* * * *
The M.C.C.’s invitation to an Australian
team to tour England in 1920 looks on the face of
it to be a “canny” proceeding. In the first place,
it is England’s turn to tour; secondly, an Australian
team has just finished playing there ;. and, thirdly, it
is problematical whether cricket has sufficiently re-
vived in the battered Cold Countrv to make the
proposition a paying one —on the old scale. On the
other hand, a useful visiting team would have the
time of its life here, as regards “gates” and
general enthusiasm.
*** . *
Captain D. A. Prentice (in civilian life a
N. S. Wales country school-teacher) holds a record
that will take some beating. In a match played
in France between the 35th and 36th Battalions,
he took five wickets with five successive balls.
The Australian Rugby Leaguers in the
final match of their tour in M.L. crushed Well-
ington to pulp by 93 points to five —21 tries 15
goals, against one try one goal. The heavy scorers
were A. B. Burge (13 goals), L. Cubitt (five tries)
and Harold Horder (three tries).
* * * *
At Brisbane on Saturday X. S. Wales
outed Queensland in the final inter-State Rugby
League match of the season by 13—10. The North-
erners did all the scoring in the first half and led
10—0; in the second half N. S. Wales put up just
enough to win on time. C. Horder (two goals and
a try) and W. Sheehan (two tries) did the N. S.
Wales scoring; and Bennett (two tries) and full-
back Hall (two goals) were the point-scorers for Q.
So N. S. Wales went through the season winning all
tests against M.L. and Queensland in Australia, and
three out of four v. M.L.
* * * *
The Tic. Football League “final.” at the
Melbourne Cricket Ground on Saturday, drew a
“gate” that burst all records. The Richmond young-
sters —it was their first appearance in a final —'played
a pretty game; very fast, with clean marking, neat
passing and effective kicking. In fact they did
exactly what ’Wood had done against Carlton the
week before. The champion Magpies, either obsessed
by the knowledge that they had another chance if
defeated, or possibly—only possibly, mind —with an
eye to another fat “gate,” were similar to the
curate’s historical egg. They were carrying at least
three passengers, and the tendency of some to kick
the ball straight into an enemy's hands was peculiar.
The yellow-and-blacks led by a few points through
thr-ee quarters, but always when they got a bit in
hand a brilliant Magpie flash brought scores nearly
level and showed what they could do if they wanted.
When Richmond led by 10 points at the last change
everybody said “This is ’Wood’s quarter” and waited
for the methodical putting on of goals. But it was
Richmond that put the goals on, three of them, while
’Wood’s sloppy mixture of energy and lackadaisical-
ness added three points only—45 in all to Rich-
mond’s 74.. Coming Saturday sees the “grand final”
between the same teams, and if the two are at their
best the ground won’t hold the crowd.
* * * *
Skill won again at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night when Vince Blackburn (8st. 71b.)
met Jamito (fist. 21b.), the strong and game pug
who arrived recently from the Philippines. The
colored youth has a genius for taking punishment;
in this respect he is a miniature Joe Grimm. Un-
like that eccentric Dago, however, he is extremely
fast, and the owner of several useful hits. Notably
a heavy swing to the body. Blackburn won on
points at the end of 20 rounds, chiefly by means of
his straight left. In addition he did his dusky
friend a lot of damage through the agency of a right
hook which landed repeatedly after the half-way
mark was passed.
Jerry Sullivan stopped Sandy McVea in
six rounds at Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night.
The abo. never had a hope, though he battled with
characteristic pluck.
# * * *
At Sydney eight-hour sports on Monday
F. Tierney (Maitland) high-jumped 5ft. 7in. A
useful effort, though the world’s record is exactly a
foot better.
-X- * * #
R. Crammond won the championship of
St. Ignatius’s (Sydney) College last week with 261
points. He tackled every event on the programme
and got a first in 120yds. hurdles, two seconds and
five thirds. A. Hogan (26 points) won the 100yds.,
220yds. and 440yds., and he did it in a style which
suggests a place in the coming G.P.S. championships.
C. Fitzgerald annexed the broad-jump %?ith 20ft. Gin.
—101 in. better than the previous record for the
schools, and within lojin. of “Slip” Carr’s G.P,S.
record. In the B grade A. Moring monopolised the
events and scored 29 points.
* * * *
A. W. Winter (Botany Harriers), in the
Maitland-Botany inter-club challenge match on
Saturday, won high-jump (5ft. 3in.), hop, step and
jump (45ft. fin.), and came second in the broad-
jump (19ft. O-jin.), and pole vault (9ft. 3in.). W.
Hutton (Maitland) was also busy. He won 100yds.
(10 4-5sec.), 220yds. (23sec.), 440yds. (53 4-5sec.)
and broad-jump (19ft. 71in.).
* * * *
Motor-cyclist II. Parsons astonished Yet-
liolme (N.S.W.) on Monday, when, bestriding a
7h.p. Indian, he did 164 miles of highway in
I7tnin. 5sec. (a record for the course), 33 miles in
35min. 50sec., and 50 miles in 55min. 43sec.
* * * *
The “service” matches of National Rifle
Association at Randwick (Sydney) brought success
t.o clubs who make a feature of the intricacies of
knocking out the imaginary enemy. In the “John
Sands” (running man and disappearing targets)
Randwick A and B teams each scored 63 points, Syd-
ney 62 and Parramatta A 61; and in the Governor's
Cup (disappearing targets and unknown ranges)
Parramatta A scored 182 and Randwick A 174. Com-
pared with other years, the “service” matches had
meagre support, due possibly to the N.R.A. having
cut down the prize-money by half. A more sensible
move would have been to allow the prize-money to
stand and make it compulsory for all clubs to take
part in the serviceable and serious aspect of the pro-
gramme. In the schools’ matches, Sydney Grammars
scooped the pool, and their crack-shots Spiers, Vicars
and Scott-Findlay, each put up the “possible” at
500yds.
“Snow G.”: When the Ironbark Rovers
Football Club went to town to play a match the
team included a forward, hard as nails, and known
to his clubmates as “Bronco.” When at home he
was a timber-hauler who got himself into condition
by running five miles every night and rubbing down
with a stiff horse-brush. He told me on the journey
down in the train that he intended having “one of
those Turkey baths before the match.” I reckoned
It was a good idea. Saturday morning we were
up at cockcrow, desiring to have some scrum
practice. We could not locate our crack forward,
and set out for the ground without him. As we
were passing a plumber’s and tinsmith’s shop, in the
window of which was fitted up an enamel bath,
shower, washbasin, etc., we sighted an apparition in
pyjamas and overcoat, with a towel in one hand and
a cake of soap in the other. It was our missing
friend waiting for the Turkish bath to open.
WEALTH’S MYSTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Counsel: Where did you get the £1000? Wit-
ness: I won it at the races. (Laughter).”- —Evidence
in Sydney suit in ivhich card-sharping was alleged.
Hugh Fitz-James had lots of money,
And a passion for the turf ;
He preferred, by far, the races
To the golf-course or the surf.
He would rather back his fancy with the members
of the Ring
Than devote his time to jazzing, tennis, bowls or
anything.
He had stacks of inside knowledge.
Owners deluged him with tips ;
Trainers told him stable secrets,
Yet each time he came to grips
With the odds-supplying Hebrews who make music-
on the course
He was smitten in his pocket, and went down with
dreadful force.
William Smith drew £3 weekly
(Sometimes less and never more)
From the coarse, insulting owner
Of a small suburban store,
Till, one day, as in a vision, he discerned the light
ahead
And, abjuring sordid commerce, he attacked the
Ring instead.
From that moment he bad thousands
Always ready to his hand;
Gas debentures, public houses,
Ferry shares and city land
Seemed to gravitate towards him, week by week and
day by day.
What the bookies felt about it no one had the heart
to say. >
Why should men like Bill make fortunes,
In this free-and-easy way,
While Fitz-James and others like him
Go financially astray ?
Does the money come from betting or is betting but
the mask ?
Far from me to cast aspersions. All I wish to do is
ask.
N.S.W.
THE RUINED HUNTER.


*9iS
'U
Be a Stronger,
Healthier, Happier Man,
—a man full of vim and energy—a man who reflects Health
and Strength in his every move and attitude. You will
quickly become a stronger and healthier man if you exercise
scientifically. There is no other way to ensure permanent
results.
Scientific Exercise is the natural stimulant of the body. It
strengthens every nerve, muscle and sinew. It expels all
impurities and nourishes with rich, pure, virile blood, fully
laden with life-prolonging oxygen. But to secure these
benefits you must know how to exercise. You cannot read
until you are taught. You cannot exercise scientifically if
you don’t learn how.
My Method of Instruction by Post
will strongly appeal to you on account of its simplicity and
the rapid results it secures. It aims at building up the
muscles (both internal and outward) in a thorough and
systematic manner. No one part is built up at the expense
of the other, but YOUR WEAK SPOTS will have attention.
Write for a FREE copy of my book, “Health and Strength
from Self-culture.” Send three penny stamps to cover
postage.
Those who prefer personal tuition are invited to call and
have a chat with me about their needs, when I shall be
happy to show them over my modern and perfectly appointed
establishment. Advice and consultation free.
REG. L.(s»o„y .BAKER,
Natural Health and
Physical Culture
Expert,
129 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Or. Crown St.), Sydney.
JTHE GREAT—^
AtlAnjficWght
e
y 7
tr
SHELL
BENZINE
WAS USED
in the Viclsers-Vimy Bombing
Aeroplane down by Capt.
Alcock and Lieut. A. W.
Brown.
T 5
m,
m
k'* 'V T
‘WHIi, ill.'VC
The Gear Ratios of a
l-TON FORD Worm Drive TRUCK
are: Low, 20 to 1; High, 71 to 1.
The MOORE 4-SPEED GEAR-BOXES
provide, in addition: Extra low, 40 to 1 ; Inter-
mediate, 141 to 1. For heavy work and Over-
speed, 41 to 1, for fast City delivery, etc.
MOORE 4-SPEED GEARS for all
FORD models.
WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO. LTD.,
311 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
DUNCAN & CO. PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE & ADELAIDE.
J. A. DIMMITT, PERTH, W.A.
Agents WANTED Queensland.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Ci.P.O.,
MELBOURNE.
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
Box 220 Q.P.O
SYDNEY.
mm
Mh
, *
*3
sSh
.wlb
* y.
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
Krifses
Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
>°f
/
*>
-tr
English irencm
Distinctive Style, Wonderful Capacity for Ser-
vice, Warmth and Weather-protective Qualities,
combined with Comparative Lightness of
Weight, make these English Trench Coats ad-
mirable for present wear.
FOR MOTORISTS
in particular, their value is undoubted, as no
coat more fully caters for touring needs in
changeable weather.
Each Coat is Perfectly Tailored in Khaki Gabar-
dine of Particularly Stout Quality, of exactly
the type used in Military Coats supplied to
officers in the British and Australian Forces.
Design is as here shown, and features Raglan
sleeve.
With Check Wool Cloth Lining, £5/5/-
Also in Heavier Gabardine, with Check
Cloth Lining and Interlining of Oilskin.
£B/10/-
With Detachable Fleece Lining and Oil-
skin Interlining £ll/10/-
10 PER CENT. DISCOUNT
TO RETURNED MEN.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co,
Pty. Ltd.,
244-254 Flinders St., Melbourne.


While the Society of Artists hangs a
collection of variegated scenery in the Edu-
cation Department’s Gallery at one end of
Sydney, Horderns’ Fine Art Gallery at the
other end houses an interesting show by
L. Bernard Hall, Director of Melbourne
Gallery. This is the best chance Sydney
critics have had to size up the work of this
careful and restrained craftsman who delib-
erately sets bimself problems and then
attacks them from the most difficult angle,
generally with success. The people who
come away from the Society of Artists’
show with the feeling that they have had
an express journey past 7000 miles of land-
scape are recommended to go and rest their
eyes on Hall’s figure studies. If there is
a vacant chair, the visitor might take it
and sit down before “Toilet a la Chinoise.”
Services for Gentlemen
Located on the Ground Floor, Vitt Street
, t^le convenience of gentlemen Farmer's Have recently established special
Manicure, Boot Polishing and Foot Specialist Services, which are thoroughly up-
to-date, from which prompt and efficient attention is assured.
GENTLEMEN’S MANICURE SERVICE.
Expert Manicurists are in attendance from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., daily
(Saturday till 1 p.m.) Appointments, if desired, may be booked to
suit gentlemen’s convenience.
BOOT POLISHING SERVICE.
Here the busy man is assured of quick and satisfactory service.
Open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday to Friday (till 1 p.m. Saturday).
FOOT COMFORT.
* s * n attendance every Wednesday afternoon from
d.dO to 5 p.m. to demonstrate the advantages of Dr. Scholl’s cele-
brated Foot Appliances. There is a Dr. Scholl appliance or remedy
lor every foot ill or deformity, and these represent the knowledge
gleaned in the world-wide and successful experience of many years.
} FARMERS - - SYDNEY
'Uhe Store for CKCen
TELEPHONE. CITY. ELEVEN THOUSAND
Gowning
in good
taste.
With those gentle folk
who consider only the
best to be worth while
—whose air of com-
fort, good taste and
well-being shows a
true understanding of
the standards of good
dressing—the regular
wearing of Shave
Gowns and Tailor Suits
is most natural.
New Season’s Models
shown twice yearly in
Sydney and Adelaide;
yearly in Brisbane.
SHAVE
Dressmakers,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Centreway, Melbourne.
U)
»
Mr
JSPEJ
ieltoman
1 high-class
[SPECIALTIES
Creams
IT&
Pastes
for
Cleaning & Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRAND LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
V-'-
E. DROWN <§ SONS LONDON
AOEJVCIES • ALL • OVER • THE ■ WORLD
VISITORS.—Don’t
one of the city’s
greatest attractions the PAVILION, Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Rust Proof
Corsets
The N. S. Wales State Orchestra has
made us green wi.th envy, and our musical
enthusiasts and patrons have been deploring
the lack of enterprise and absence of taste
winch have prevented us from getting level
with Sydney in the fine arts. Premier Taw-
son was sounded whether he would make
one of a Castlemaine Big Three (Ormond-
Professor-of-Music Laver and Education-
Director Tate were the two) to forward a
scheme for a Vic. State Orchestra. He asked
for a definite proposition—how much a vear
would be wanted? Ironmaster McPherson
the Treasurer, may surprise everybody by
helping. Bent, instigated by two such oppo-
sites as Melba and Miuogue (Under-Trea-
surer) was about to earmark a bit of sur-
plus revenue for an orchestra wiien Jack
Murray’s no-confidence motion, subsequently
endorsed by the electors, knocked him off his
balance. Of course, it is no use going on
w-ith the scheme unless a magnetic person-
ality can be secured. Verbruggfaens and
Marshall Halls are hard to find, and not easy
to hold when caught.
Gaud Mayor Cabena gave a party to meet
Henri Verbrugghen. It was intended as a
man spree, but Mrs. Cabena insisted on a
few women “to brighten things up.” Mrs.
Cabena insists that “men only talk seri-
ously.” Cabena had Verbrugghen, Laver
and Dr. Barrett with him on the platform.
Other people draped themselves round a
central buffet and drank “healths” in
Australian wine at intervals. Every-
thing else had a foreign flavor. Verbrug-
ghen showed that he had lost his acquired
Edinboro’ accent, and Laver said a kind word
for German music. Barrett murmured ap-
plause, and Wunderlich, from Sydney, said
Wagner was respectable, or words to that
eltect. While Laver was on the job a young
officer of the A.I.F. said, “If he had' been
with me for two and a half years in prison
in Germany, he’d be thankful to cut out
German music.” The argument is good
for years yet. Verbrugghen mentioned, in-
cidentally, that the State of N. S. Wales
had not lost by the Orchestra ; it had paid its
way.
Mis. Cabena, in soft mouse-color, passed
the coffee and the cheese-straws and
hostessed charmingly. Speaker Mackie and
ms wife were present, and Dr. Meyer
brought his lady. Mrs. Wunderlich showed
a new fashion in mustardy-colored collars.
To those acquainted with the principals—
a military gent, and a beauteous and heavily-
gilded lady, whose frocks and fancies have
lor long provided material for afternoon-tea
debates—a comedy enacted in the auditorium
or a city theatre the other evening was of
more interest than the happenings on the
stage. The very cordial relations between
the two have become strained, and on this
occasion she was in a box with another
lady ana he was in the stalls. His frantic
interest in her was as nothing compared with
her unusually-lively interest in the show.
The climax came in the interval, when a
minion entered the box and handed the lady
a note, which, without opening, she tore
mto small pieces, with dramatic deliberation
t hose who understood the plot were thrilled,
and the efforts of some occupants of the
stalls to obtain a glimpse of the gentleman’s
race at the moment of crisis were positively
ghoulish.
Diners in a city cafe the other evening
witnessed a war of attrition, or something of
the land, between the management and two
femaies who persisted in remaining at a
table which had been booked. The place
was crowded, and the ladies coldly refused
to look elsewhere for nourishment. After
consultation, a waiter removed the crockery,
cutlery, electric lamp and cloth from the
table, and finally the table itself was carried
to a spare corner and set for the partv which
had booked it. At this stage the ladies
showed that they knew when to take a hint,
and departed unfed.
By the death of Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn,
which happened a week after she had ap-
parently recovered from a.n operation, Mel-
jiourne has lost one of its best-known
hostesses and a charming and generous lady.
Before her marriage she was Bessie Osborne,
daughter of “Jimmy” Osborne, owner of
many acres. She was a particular favorite
with public-school boys, a challenge cup
Presented by her being one of the prizes for
which public-school oarsmen compete furi-
ously. Daughter Esther (who married
Colonel. Wheatley, D. 5.0., formerly gentle-
man-help to the i uller Excellency) received
tlie news by wireless, being now on' her
way back from U.S.A. Captain Jim Fair-
bairn is still in England.
Lesley Gladden, who now designs under-
wear for the idle rich and profiteers’ wives,
has had the burglars in. Lesley’s ragshop
is dubbed Joseph et Cie, and she is partnered
b.\ Mrs. \\ illard, widow of the late mummer
who used to be the pale-faced villain of Bill
Anderson’s melodramas.
Mrs. Jo Woolf, wife of the barrister, is
spending a month or so in Dr. Moore’s pri-
vate hospital recovering her strength after
an operation.
Melbourne is losing its genial Yankee
consul. W. C. Magelssen, who has had to
resign because of ill-health. He hopes that
the climate of Southern California will effect
the necessary repairs, and declares that if
he is able to re-enter the Consular service
he will worry Uncle Sam to send him back
to Melbourne.
Iceberg Irvine opened the new buildings
of the Victorian Civil Ambulance Service on
Friday afternoon at 217 Lonsdale-street;.
The Acting-Ex. also unveiled a memorial
tablet to the Association’s late benefactress.
Mrs. J. M. McKinley, and the honor-board
of St. John’s Ambulance Brigade.
Coadjutor-Archbishop Barry, of Hobart,
who jokes about his auburn hair and calls
himself the Benjamin of the Catholic epis-
copate of Australia, is in Melbourne this
week attending the conference of the hier-
archy. He has greatly impressed leading
laymen by his outstanding ability—an in-
teresting fact when the creation of a new
Victorian bishopric, probably at Geelong, is
spoken of. A bishopric in the rich Vic-
toria South-Western district ought to be
one of the ecclesiastical plums of Australia.
The Austral Salon turned on full power
for a party to Mrs. Billy Hughes last week.
I lesident Mrs. Gabina presided. Benno
Scherek rippled at the piano, and Walter
Ivirby sang. Mrs. Quinnell and Mrs. Sad-
lier engineered the function.
Mrs. Major James gave a small luncheon
party at the Lyceum Club on Friday, and
Mrs. Billy Hughes (the guest of honor)
wore a heavily-fringed dress and looped up
one of. the latest loose veils over her hat
w len it came to soup-time. (The meshes
are not big enough to poke a spoon through.)
Xhe hostess and Miss Sergennt were both in
sapphire blue. Mrs. James is off for a
year to the Mallee to settle her soldier son
comfortably on the land.
Trooper Gerard,
the bard of the Aus-
tralian Light Horse,
who signs himself
“Gerardy” in The
Bulletin, was in
Melbourne for a few
days on his way
home to Sydney. The
author of “The Road
to Palestine” is busy
with the publishing
of his “War Songs,”
a second volume of
soldiers’ verse which
will be read and
treasured by the men
who rode and fought
with him. Gerard,
pictured here by
Francie Young, is
thf pL th K lucky ones who came through
the I alestine campaign unhurt.
News comes of the death of Barnev Bar-
Captain Isaac (known as
Jack ) Barnato, an airman, aged only 25.
RariSfn e K a i 19 ?' ear ? ld widow, Dorothy
Barnato, burdened with several millions. She
p, f le d^ u sliter of Joe Dewis, formerly
■ •arnato s manager, and her mother
is launy Ward, an actress. Capt. Barnato
was in the air force that bombed Adrian-
ople and Constantinople, and received the Dis-
tinguished Service Cross. His wife’s mother
was a Broad way chorus girl, and became leader
of an extravagant New York set. Lewis
divorced her. Barnato left two sons-. The
other married Miss Joel, daughter of a
South African mining chief.
win n a i Pe ? C i °% in S> St. John’s, Toorak,
will be banded a cheque from its parishioners
to pay off the building debt. To swell the
sum a fair raged in the grounds of the
George Fairbairns’ home on Saturday last,
a notable feature of the frivol being the
absence of a large percentage of the
wealthiest pew-owners. One of the bloated
capitalists hurried in with a pocketful of
sixpences, which seemed to be the biggest coins
he was able to produce. (It wasn’t his day
for bloating.) Harry Prell ran a shooting-
gallery on the tennis-court with the assist-
ance of two Returned Anzacs, and a merry-
go-round whirled religiously in the paddock.
Mrs. Ross Soden and Mrs. Nyulasy, rein-
forced by Fan Dango Mackay, sold ‘ sweets.
±he hostess kept in the background owing
to the death of Mrs. Charles Fairbairn
three days previously. Admiral Creswell was
treasurer, and Walter Kirby took charge
of the concert in the ballroom. A party of
“Lightnin’ ” mummers were led in bv par-
son Law. who looked as if he liked his job.
An uncle of Governor Stanley, who,
although he has departed, is still Gov*, of Vic-
toria by courtesy, has been appointed a
canon of St. Peter’s, in Rome. He is Alger-
non Charles Stanley, and he joined the R.C.
Church 40 years ago. The Stanleys have
leaning to spirituality. Before his late
Ex. came to Melbourne it was reported that
he was of what is commonly termed in
England the "evangelical” persuasion. If
so, he must have become a convert to the
Church of England after he reached Aus-
ralia. on the ground that his vice-regality
required him to “follow the King” and go
to race meetings.
Daisy Kennedy is reckoned to be the
world’s greatest woman violinist. This is
the opinion of old Professor Sevcik, who
taught her, and of Kubelik and other dis-
interested experts. Daisy is an Australian
born of Irish and
Scotch parents in
the copper town of
Burra Burra (S.A.).
She was hammering
a piano at four,
later turning to the
violin. The usual
swag of scholarships
and medals have
been the signposts
of her development
in Australia and
Europe, but the
finest proof of her
brilliancy lies in her
interpretative quality
and wonderful tone.
The accompanying
picture, by Claude
Harris Ltd., London,
shows Daisy’s huge luminous eyes and
verandah of hair ; out it conveys nothing of
her charm upon the concert platform. She
is hurrying round the Commonwealth on a
concert tour.
Adelaide’s weekly despatch :
After a four years’ break the Hunt Club Races
were revived a Morphettville on Saturday, with a
huge attendance and a record totalisator return,
lime was when the meeting was the recognised occa-
sion for the first appearance of summer finery ; but
either we are chillier mortals than we were or some-
thing has gone wrong with the climate, for coats
and skirts were everywhere on Saturday. Lots
of the old hunting men are still away, amongst them
the Club’s president, W. Pope, who is in England,
and the Master, E. M. Luxmoore, who has not yet re-
turned from warfare. The official lunch, at
which the Governor was the guest of honor, was
presided over by the Acting-Master, Paul Teesdale
Smith.
On Friday we had our final Button Day for the
Army Nurses’ Fund. Since the movement was in-
augurated Button Days have increased from seven
per year to 20, and takings have quadrupled. The
Red Cross Society alone has made £30,000 by the
sale of buttons, and the total proceeds of the Days
are set down at over £200,000.
Maitland is patting itself on the back over the
V.C. won in Russia by Corporal A. P. Sullivan, who
was in the local branch of the National Bank when
he enlisted.
The Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’ Club and St.
Mary’s Mission of Hope combined their annual meet-
ings on Tuesday afternoon, when Mrs. Thomas and
Mary Tomkinson presented the respective reports
and balance-sheets. The Governor praised and the
Bishop purred. Songs by the Mawson lady and
Barbara Howard cheered the listeners.
A rest-room for women has been installed at the
Outer Harbor, and its door was duly unlocked by
Mrs. Nutter Thomas on Saturday afternoon. It will
be run as a branch of the Missions to Seamen, and is
designed to give stewardesses and women travellers
some place to go to while vessels are in port.
The Carnation and Sweet-pea Society’s annual
show of blooms took flower-lovers to the Town
Hall on Saturday, but the blossoms were not up to
last year’s quality. Mrs. C. 11. Angas, who judged
the decorated dinner-tables, gave the first prize to
Mrs. tV. H. Ind and the second to Isabel Stephenson.
The Scots’ College scheme launched here only a
year ago, is being pushed on rapidly with subscrip-
tions. The visiting Moderator-General, the Rev. John
Walker, hopes to see the College finally established
at Torrens Park—the Barr Smiths’ beautiful old
home at Mitcham. And he dreams of a feminine
Scots’ College.
Captain “Soss” Rupert Wertheim, the tall
tennis-player, has persuaded “Girlie” Fcl-
stead to call the game “love all,” and make
it for keeps. Miss Felstead’s friends are now
reminding her that she will be able to have
a piano and sewing-machine in every room
of her house.
Comedian Phil Smith, whose troubles
arising from a former matrimonial venture
have been ventilated in the courts, the other
day became the absurdly-proud father of a
brand-new infant. The present Mrs. Smith
is the graceful girl who is Mildred O’Brien
behind the footlights.
At a welcome to Henri Verbrugghen at the
Melba Hall, various speakers urged that the
Vic. Government should help to establish .n
Melbourne a similar orchestra to -that bossed
by Verbrugghen in Sydney. Musically-
starved Melbourne still shows a morbid
appetite for German music. Apart from this
viewpoint, however, there is the little matter
of the Lady Northcote permanent orchestra.
Melbourne’s need of musical uplift may be
great; but the laying-out of the L.N.P.O.
fund hasn’t so far resulted in such acclaim as
to justify the State in taking ou a show
similar to Ma’s experiment.
The “Bennicke Hart,” whose “Blue Bird”
suite was performed by the Verbrugghen
orchestra at the Town Hall, is the sprightly
little Fritz Hart. The Albert-street Conser-
vatorium director finds that in some quarters
more notice is taken of a composition by the
presumably exotic “Bennicke” than would
be of one attributed to the known “Fritz.”
Pianiste Una Bourne, Florence Hood
(violinist and daughter of the late Judge)
and Spencer Thomas (who was out here
with the Quinlan Opera Co.) are making
music together in London. Una is getting
topside notices from the critics.
Ethel Bishop, an Adelaide girl, won the
National Gallery’s travelling scholarship
early in the war. She was waiting for tne
uproar to end when she met Hector Pater-
son, a Scot, and became Mrs. Hector. Now
the lady has given back the scholarship
money and set herself to making scones.
Archbishops Cattaneo (Apostolic Delegate),
Spence (Adelaide), Clune (Perth) and Co-
adjutor-Archbishop Barry (Hobart) accom-
panied Dr. Mannix to Hawthorn on Sunday
afternoon to join in the celebration of the
golden jubilee of the Church of the Immacu-
late' Conception, which is in charge of the
Jesuit Order. It was announced that the
parishioners had undertaken to contribute
£4lOO in 10 months to supplement £3OOO
already in hand to complete the edifice.
The Glaciarium is to be the Jazz Palais
during the summer. A dream of a floor has
been laid where the winter ice was the day
before yesterday, and the skaters will simply
change their mode of progression and con-
tinue to revolve. The dancing craze is
such that people now jazz round the Ten
Commandments, or even a cup of afternoon
tea. There is to be a special opening party
on Saturday.
From London :
Is the Bush Brotherhood a failure? At the meet-
ing just held in England under the presidency of
the Bishop of London, the leading champion and
supporter of the movement, a doleful account of its
present condition was submitted.. The Bishop read
what he described as a “terrible letter’’ he had re-
ceived from a Queensland canon informing him of
the dire straits to which the Brotherhood at Long-
reach had' been reduced. There was now only one
brother left, and he had to look after six churches
and dash about territory of 80,000 square miles.
This Longreach community was the particular pet
of the Bishop, and he confessed that there had been
times w’hen he contemplated chucking up London,
joining the Longreach Brotherhood, and living on
mutton and damper for the rest of his days. But
on second thoughts, and after prayerful considera-
tion, he considered that the will of the Lord pointed
in the direction of sticking to his £lO,OOO a year,
a couple of palaces and a varied diet in the West
End. After reading the Australian letter the Bishop
exclaimed, “And here we are in England treading on
one another’s toes while the scattered settlers
in the Australian bush are spiritually starv-
ing. 1 ’ The Bush Brotherhoods are composed
of young, newly-ordained Anglican clergymen, who
volunteer to go to Australia for five years. On
their return the Bishop of London gives them pre-
ference over the stay-at-homes, and several are now
to be found in the snuggest and most lucrative of
rectories and vicarages. The Bishop declared that
if he could have his own way, every newly-ordained
clergyman, if medically fit, would have to spend
five years in Australia or Canada before he became
qualified for an English appointment. Another
speaker was the Bishop of Kalgoorlie, Dr. Golding-
Bird, who was very rough on the over-staffed
churches of London, some of which had half a dozen
young curates who he guessed would be better em-
ployed in the Australian backblocks.


9
*6
IffiPerUfl
99
w
■
S&\
m
m
i
n
'ft
%
4
m
vm
»
X/
life
r*i
St
ms
£3
\
il
m
IP*
%
fl'rf
«(»
tty
V*
'i >'•■/,
itKIC
in /
If//
, 'V-,
[ t 4't,
* i .
K 47
Uftu
%
d-d/
l l x
Hi i
V
i^Ma/WU
\m
(-M
\W
</V 4»
!!
i\\|/'
n
VUfIMU*
m>
V vi
i hi W/z/.n f
St, %,
dl m l [\i > !i,
lu\ Y/Zic^
V//i
/ft*
'//// lUi
A TIP WORTH HAVING,


Royal
l Warrant
f
To H.M.
King;
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
pro
OlartesHeidsitffc
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
fa
'■ .m
lack Polish
■■ m
>'r
<*»>*«■ FW? w
FbRHVT£jfr.OLfICE
CALF™,
HH
■el Mini
m
Did
you?
m
H
f
LOOKI V
I’ve Split my
NEW GLOVES.
This is just one of
those articles which
could neatly be
repaired with
Mcnd-a/Tear]
THE WONDERFUL NEW
MATERIAL WHICH SO
SIMPLY- SO NEATLY-
Sample Outfit
post free on
•■eceipt of 1/4-
Sole Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W. and
Queensland—
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
Buy Peace Bonds.
*r*v
P/IRIS
CARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
“Paris” Garters
Comfortable Garters.
Look for the trademark
—your assurance of value
and service.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
The Dainty Afternoon Teas served at the PAVILION, Circular Quay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people. Orchestral performances daily.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
On Saturday Randwick saw the biggest,
the. most interesting and the worst-dressed
Spring meeting in the history of the course.
Visitors from all the States crowded the
stands and the lawns, and when Richmond
Main and Artilleryman ran a dead-heat in
the Derby the immense congregation surged
under a wave of excitement like grass blown
m a strong wind. As the G.-G.’s lady
decorated the gees-gees the cheering almost
split asunder the blue sky, for by that time
the day had decided to smile, and only once
subsequently did the weather give way to
a passing fit of petulance. As for the
dressing, it was a case of “we saw old
friends turn up as new,” for, scared by the
wintry conditions of the morning, woman had
got inside costumes and furs, the more ner-
vous going to the extremity of raincoats.
All the smartest millinery carried crops of
feathers and ospreys ; skirts were striped or
plain grey or white, but the champagne-clad
limb so much in evidence at the Winter
meeting was rare.
In the later warmth of the day some real
Spring dresses aopeared from under cover
of greatcoat or waterproof. One pretty girl
tripped in the softness of cream net made
with the long new waist outlined with a nar-
row baby-blue velvet ribbon, her drooping
rose-wreathed Leghorn having a loop of the
same shaded velvet (Jangling over the back of
its brim. In contrast to this softness was
the lady whose figure-moulded costume looked
like one of colorist De Mestre’s vellow major
schemes gone mad. All yellow-and-black-
striped narrowness was she. The deep tones
of her red hair were surmounted by a black
hat sheet cut as a precipice on the left and
dipping on the right like the wing of a
wounded bird. Above this, at the end of
several feet of stick, a sunshade the circum-
ference of a threepenny-bit, of all-black
feather ruchings, was smartly held.
Lady Helen wore her sables and u toque
like a small rose arbor on her head; the
State Governor’s lady was clad in velvet that
had yards of fringe and her many-tailed
black furs to set it off. Help D’Apice’s
missus again contested the Cullen dame’s
claim to be known as the “lady in grey.”
In the vice-regal transport division were
helps Duncan and Clifford and secretary
Lamb; Miss Craig Roberton came out in her
raincoat, but mitigated its severity with a
blue-shaded hat; Mrs. Edward Noyes and
Mrs. Floyd, the former in handsome and
severe black tailorings, and the latter con-
trasting her pretty Irish coloring against
softest mole, were more than once close to
window 13 of the tote. The Whittinghams
came from Queensland, with them were Miss
Taylor and Mr. Watt, she in a wonderful
confection of old-gold silkiness and p< nne vel-
vet, made narrow and tucked below the waist
and in coatee style above. Eadith Walker’s
fawn costume had the very latest thing in slit
skirts, and her headpiece was in fawn and
blue shades; Mrs. Lex Craig gave her yellow
sapphires an airing; Major and Mrs. Ram-
say, and late owner of Biplane, Greenwood,
saw their fellow-Maorilander Gloaming
beaten by Poitrel. Amongst the assembly
also were the Ross Munro misses, of Wee-
bollboola, one in blue with a pink hat, the
other in tones suggesting jade; Mrs. Willie
Anderson, her pretty hair set off with a
befeathered hat, the rest of her in brown
suiting: Mrs. Roy Buckland with her just-
returned warrior and lots of wool embroid-
eries on hat and dress ; the Hay faction in
force Mrs. Alec in the diamond earrings
and an indeterminate-colored costume; Molly
Langer Owen with the family’s soldier and
the only red costume at the meeting;
Mayoress Richards in a coat and
skirt that had been caught in a
shower of buttons; good-looking Rolins, the
Hays from Coolangatta, the Norton Grim-
wades from Toorak, slim-anlded Mrs. Harry
Clayton, and little Mrs. Roy Forrest helped
to make up the 65,000 sports that the gates
registered. And there was, let it not be
forgotten, the young woman in a beautiful
three-quarter yellow suede coat, the material
cut Indian-brave fashion, to form a fringe
several inches deep.
The snowstorm that Searl, the florist, let
loose in the Town Hall for the benefit of
the Sydney Hospital Peace Offering Ball
got out and is still whirling along
the streets. The ceiling and galleries of
the big barn resembled ledges with heavy
snow slipping over; and somebody had
thrown snowballs which had stuck to the
ends of the scarlet-and-white streamers that
swayed from the centre lights. There was
a frozen fountain, a rose-grown arch, and
“Peace” in immense lettering in the fore-,
ground of the platform, while back of that
azaleas and palms and lilies made the organ
look life a whited sepulchre. Splash-
ing the whiteness with their crimson
stain were red roses—everywhere. All the
best of our Select were there making up
the 1600 dancers. The fishtail to Lady
Davidson’s black gown wriggled through the
vice-regal set as she greeted old friends and
made new acquaintances. A notable item
was the upholstery design of Premier Hol-
man’s missus. Another was the Cherry-
colored narrow frock draped in black georg-
ette, which was worn by surgeon Maitland’s
slim wife, to whom much of the success of
the ball was due.
In the same set the Fuller lady’s grey
georgette was an old friend. After our
Best had stepped back to their frost-rimmed
wigwam some tiny tots in silver and scarlet
trotted gravely through the jazz and the
waltz. Poor kiddies! their own little cots
must have seemed a far-off haven. Then
there was the jazz competition in which our
Very Nicest did their best to pull down the
ten-guinea prize. Betty Crook and Mr.
Isaacs were the first twosome, a Moreau
girl, and Fob Wilkinson came next and Pat
Levy with Helen Laidley drew the third
prize. The Venour Nathan lady, in laven-
der, was surrounded by a group that in-
cluded Andree Flo. Brigadier-General
Chauvel and his lady (she slim and vivid in
gold tissue and emerald green) and Owen Cox
were also on view. The Hordern lady and
Enid Woollf made a handsome pair and Mrs.
Rouse’s pink feather fan was the latest thing
out. Anita Onslow wore blue brocade; and
Mrs. Toohey was dignified in a black dress
with a long train in its wake. Mrs. Sep Levy
appeared in a brief dissertation of black
jetted frock and pretty Evelyn Dutton
brought her masses of brown braids to the
party.
Colin Smith, who has got through £125,000
since he came of age, is a member of the
affluent family which owned and inhabited
Godrich before it was torn down and
turned into blocks of Darlinghurst flats.
Early in his career he took an interest in
the turf, and bought the late W. A. Long’s
Chipping Norton place, near Liverpool, race-
course and all complete. His sisters, like
him, inherited £lO,OOO a year apiece. One
married Leslie Wilson, a popular A.D.C. in
Governor Rawson’s time. That capable
young man proceeded to “nurse” Reading,
the constituency of the present Lord Chief
Justice of England—he was then Rufus
Isaacs, K.C. Wilson became so popular, and
got so near to winning the seat a few years
before the war, that Isaacs decided to get
out. In 1913 Wilson became M.P. for
Reading, and he has represented the con-
stituency ever since. He won a D.S.O. in
S’Africa in 1900; and he was severely
wounded, handed a C.M.G. and promoted to
Lieut.-Colonel in this war. The other Smith
girl married a sailor. He left the R.N.;
whereupon she suddenly died, and practically
the whole of her fortune reverted to the
estate.
This is Ruby
Doyle, the young
Australian writer of
“The Mystery of the
Hills.” She is a
country girl and her
book has the tang of
the gum-leaf right
through it. With a
string of short stories
and this novel to
her credit she is now
turning her hand to
play-writing. In the
n o t-distant future
she hopes to present
something that is a
drawing—not a cari-
cature —of the back-
country.
Ernest Watt subscribed £3OOO to the War
Loan at the rally at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
last week, from a distance of 12,000 miles
or thereabouts. He is still in England. He
and his wife are expected in Sydney shortly,
however. All her relations are here; and
his only brother, the Franco-Australian fly-
ing colonel, has been back some months.
His Ex. and Lady Davidson had a great
time in the country, attending often four Red
Cross meetings a day. At Coff’s Harbor
sec. Lamb came to the rescue, and addressed
a meeting. The party were the guests of Mrs.
George Jenkins at Armidale, and at Scone
they stayed with the Whites. His Ex. w T as
greatly interested in Mr. White’s collection
of stamps and birds’-eggs, said to be the
finest in the Commonwealth. At Tamworth
the party ran into Professor David’s stu-
dents, who formed a guard of honor and an
arch of their geological instruments.
Miss Henderson left for Melbourne last
week, where she will remain about a month.
She will visit Adelaide before returning to
Government House, Sydney. Her pro-
jected departure for England has been
indefinitely postponed.
It was spring of the year in Palestine
when General Chauvel’s slim, dark lady
joined her soldier at Aleppo. The motor
journey from Cairo was a wonderful and
happy experience. She was rushed through
the cool freshness, sometimes experiencing a
snap of extreme cold as when Mt. Lebanon
peeped at the party from under a blanket of
snow. Mt. Carmel was a riot of anemone and
an attractive item
was a tiny pink
flower which resem-
bled phlox. The
bazaar of Aleppo
with its many streets
all under the great
arched roof which
filters the light
through squares fas-
cinated her, and still
holds a vivid place
in her memory. She
was more impressed
with it than with the
great Damascus
bazaar (long ago
bared of every shred
of its wonderful
silks and tapestries
by, first, the eager
German buyer, and later on by Digger)
Another great joy was her visit to the tombs
of the Bulls. Her party travelled by motor,
though everybody was sure that they would
have to go donkey-back ; so the lady, as well
as her husband, established a precedent in
! he ™ Ho , ly Land ‘ After Palestine she went
to .England to gather up the three children
and so home again to Victoria, where the
two boys are already entered at the Geelong
College and the baby girl waits in Mel-
bourne, where the Chauvel home is to be
The photo is by May Moore.
Elliot. Gruner, whose canvas “Spring
brost is one of the big achievements of
the artistic year, is in town for the summer.
The delicate problem of morning light which
he has been tackling with brilliant success
may only be studied when the frost is thick •
so his country camp at Emu Plains is
deserted, and the summer sun that soars like
a red-hot football merely roasts the backs
of the painter’s cows. The Outback sum-
mer with its faded browns and yellows holds
no fascination at present for the careful
student of frost and dew.
Norman Carter, the artist responsible for
the fine portrait study called “Bella Donna,”
generously gives credit to his interesting
model, the bright-complexioned girl who
wears her black dress and hat " and the
brown and purple Malay drape with such a
dashing air. If a sitter has no personality,
the toiling artist generally discovers it when
he is heavily involved with a loaded palette.
Then he feels like an aged horse dragging a
load of bricks uphill, or a man who has in-
vested all his savings in a business and dis-
covered that there isn’t a living in it. He
can't go back, and there is no fun in going
on. “Bella Donna” was painted rapidly and
surely, and the National Gallery’s purchase
at 150 guineas confirms the gentle painter’s
confidence in it. Also he feels satisfied that
he is adequately represented at last in the
State’s collection.
To-morrow. (Friday) will be Rose Day,
and the city is to have 120 stalls scattered
over its highways. All sorts of attractive
wares are to be sold in addition to the badges
and roses of the day. Lieutenant Ryrie will
scatter from his aeroplane thousands of
scraps of paper, among which will be 12
orders for “Going Up.”
One of the smartest and jolliest dances
was given by the Campbell Galbraiths to
welcome home soldier son-in-law Roy Buck-
land. The gardens of Winehcombe were to
have been ablaze with Chinese lanterns, but
the weather had a word against that. How-
ever the. bunting-enclosed verandahs were
prettily lighted. Thete were lots of soldier-
boys and pretty girls. Mrs. Roy wore a pale
blue silk that had silver roses spilled over it.
One girl guest looked a dream in a much-
draped dress of gold embroideries. The young
Forrest matron was enclosed in softest white
satin. Mrs. Maeneil Simpson and the three
Jaques brothers also helped to make up the
party.
Lady Mitchell, wife of Melbourne’s lead-
ing barrister, with Miss Mitchell, is staying
at the Queen’s Club, Macquarie-street. She
and Government-House-secretary Lamb
worked together as assistant Red Cross Com-
missioners in Egypt. Both got a C.B.E.
the same day.
Bertie MacNamara is one of the unlucki-
est young men who emerged from the Great
War with his life. In the course of 3$ years’
active service he lost an eye, and was several
times wounded and gassed. lie was one of
the few one-eyed men in the front line
when the, A.I.F. was standing between
Amiens and the Hun in 1918. He held the
reputation in his brigade of being the brav-
est of the brave; and yet he got no deco-
ration. There were none over for men of his
type after the Staff, the Motor Transport
experts and others in the back areas had
been supplied with their D.S.O.’s and M.C.’s.
Two of his brothers were killed in action.
He got home the other day and went back
to his holding near Yanco. Then a horse
bolted with the buggy the young man was in :
one of his legs got mixed up in the wheels, and
last week surgeon MacCormick took it off at
the knee. The family is very well known in
Sydney. The invalid’s father was head of
the firm of MacNamara and Smith, and his
widowed mother is related to the Hills and
the Wentworths.
This page slipped, recently, in remarking
that Major Clive Dangar, who served with
distinction in Egypt and Palestine, died at
sea. He actually died in Melbourne, on his
way home, and was buried in Sydney.
Australian writer Stella Miles Franklin
drops a line from London, where she is now
with the National Housing Council. “Hous-
ing work is a thing,” she says, “anyone can
believe in without controversy, for the Eng-
lish houses are incredible: comfort, privacy,
cleanliness —nothing is possible in them. The
horror of it has to be endured right into the
marrow of the bones to be thoroughly under-
stood.”
The gods haven’t been kind of late to Mrs.
Forrest, Queensland’s most fanciful verse-
writer. The phnwoman has had her pluck
sorely tested during six long months spent
in Mater Misericordnn private hospital, Bris-
bane, due apparently to blood poisoning
after inoculation against pneumonic ’flu last
February. She is out of bed now, and
hoping to reply to an extra call for her work
from U.S.A., whence attractive offers to pub-
lish books of her verse have lately come.
With the going of the Mark Sheldons
another old house, Tralee, on Bellevue Hill,
becomes available. It is a typical mid-
Victorian structure —a large, square draw-
ing-room on one side of the front door and
a large, square diningroom on the other:
and an inadequate garden in front. Far
more picturesque is the Kellys’ place—first
built and lived in by the Charlie Fairfaxes
—the Colin Stephens’, and, above all, the
Edward Knoxes’, all of which are in the
same road. Bona, where the Knoxes live,
shuts out Tralee from about the loveliest
view in the world.
The breaking of the chairs during the
Hughes welcome reminds Sydney of the
Essie Jenyns wedding, when St. Andrew’s
was just about wrecked —gasoliers torn
down, pews smashed; some say an inroad
was made even on the pulpit. So what are
a few chairs that aldermen need complain?
Let them remember what happened so re-
cently as the Peace Ball, or what happens
on any festive night at the big hotels, and
thank Heaven that there is left a stone upon
a stone!
Acting-Justice Langer Owen has his sol-
dier-boy home again. At the outbreak of
the war the 17-year-old youngster got away
and became a sapper in the Engineers;
later on he became a birdman. The Owen
home saw the welcome-back gaieties last
week.
Hillside, which Sep Levy has bought
from his late brother’s executors, belonged
originally to the Laidleys. It is smaller
than the Darleys’ old house, Quambi, which
the Sep Levys had on lease before they
last went to England ; but it is in a handier
part of Woollahra and has a better out-
look. After the Laidley family married
and became dispersed about the world Hill-
side degenerated into a genteel
and it did not begin to look like its old self
till Harry Levy bought it. He modernised
it inside under the direction of Theo Marks
in much the same way as his brother had
modernised Quambi. The only Levy boy
left to inhabit it is Pat, the youngest, who
just reached the minimum military age as
the war ended. Douglas, the eltfer boy, has
gone on the land, partly from inclination
and partly because his health is too poor to
stand life in Sydney as a permanent thing.
It was a good deal worse, however, when
he joined the A.I.F. as a private three
years ago; yet he managed to rise to
N.C.O.’s rank and be requisitioned by the
Irish Guards and given a commission before
the finish.
Princess Sophia Duleep Singh, a Hindu
with an English education, a daughter of the
“Lion of the Punjaub” and a worker in the
women’s movement in England, has been
married to an Australian, Jack Sutherland.
Anyway, he is alleged to have come from
Australia.


k
> >..* * *
sr*r
W t
■;' V- f '-• • **v.
i. i *
t • •
PFy »:>
** v /
r 7 v--
it
M : V ?• . ;
•< <> V'V-v
TV
RS
o'-
> <• • ,
*•//
12S
;v>
r
The Car of Quality.
Choose An Overland
rhe great Overland range of models includes a car for
practically every need of motoring.
And the popularity of Overland cars is due to five distinct advan-
tages— appearance, performance, comfort, service and price .
Here we show the famous Model 90, a car light enough
to be very “mobile,” yet heavy enough to hold the road easily;
powerful, easy to drive and easy to ride in.
Investigate this Model 90 at your early convenience. Then,
with hundreds of thousands of other people, you will choose
an overland Immediate Delivery.
Australian Distributors—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc.
1762 Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
' 'im
n-y
TO*
V*
»l
'.tfisB*S
¥!t>&>&2l£
*•*:}** t*/\
\>.. > x-
EVj»* <! *'*<’<U4#4f® rt-
xs
j§r v TwS
«// V\
»»_ Aa\
v_- £rr w*s \V< *
yt.^r
S7ss*S
m fcjU&u. «Hb:«’»**vs»i*
E»
us;
>N
1
' •VS*r
"C'XZXb*
“V V;8&
X*
fef»
?i-s:is*</<< 7*+>.
« |;i <>*
KPS*?
\ i->4
V'J
?-r-.s
l#*of£A***-
5
'fryy?* '*:
VV^
S s >*?
/
: rs6««Sj
#' Jg&£
A
oJ&ll
Milti
,V*£es
!-YKtl2i>
s
iup.lt*
a»
s*:
•>
V?.#
»!*
#fesi^fiil«
mm
i-Sfr,
SS?
£" S A ; ‘~. V? *•''.
F-;
*<
SI
m
s*}
t§M$M
m
>2
mm
m
■Jfi
EmMMm
s®
S?J
&
JV*
35r
MBHWHBB
2
«i-;
MS
8
w
«a&t
2S
frf
'x^>
Ml
££***
7.vX
*fc-
&&£i.


Pk V
■i
•"/ A
mm
TO buy collars that bear
the Pelaco brand is to be
assured of the true satisfaction
that high quality alone affords.
Mercers every where sell Pelaco
Collars, Shirts and Pyjamas.
Made in Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN."
'j~Or
V
The above ,
is the
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes. in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
AVeston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal .School of Drawing,
152 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
AGNES PLATT,
4 Manchester St., London, W. England.
Advice given on plays, novels, cinemas.
Manuscripts placed. Plays produced.
Correspondence course in stage, novel
and cinema technique.
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL
niim
The last word in comfort.
Convenient to Theatres,
G.P.0., Rail, and all tram
routes
THE GRESHAM
BRISBANE
T. M. AHERN, Prop.
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A., C.E.,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
ARCHITECTS
and
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN RE-INFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS, WOOLSHEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Box 408 G.P.O.
52 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing: Friends.
TP this should meet the eye of FARRELL
DOLAN, or anyone knowing- his address,
kindly communicate with GAY AN DUFFY,
KING Sc CO., Solicitors, Melbourne, and
information to be supplied by them is to his
advantage. lie carried on mining operations
for years at Menzies, and was last heard of
from Perth about four years ago.
\\
H
WHAT A DIP
There’s many a man who likes a
big dip in the seat of his saddle,
and this is the saddle to suit him.
The "BOULIA”
StocK Saddle.
This saddle is one of our high-grade productions, and one that
is making our reputation for saddles all over Australasia. The
dip measures about 5 inches, and yet the seat is perfectly
comfortable. The pads are set well up along the rider’s thighs
and over the stirrup bars, giving perfect security. The tree is
our best-quality “Fouright,” steel-plated. The panel has the
favorite broad leather sides extending beyond the flaps, and the
fittings included are folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel 3-bar stirrups.
£l2/17/6
Freight Free for Cash with Order to any
N.B.W. Port or Station on the N.S.W.
Railway System.
SEND YOUR HEIGHT AND WEIGHT WITH ORDER.
Write for our fine catalogue, showing:—
The “Eongreach”—comfortable as an old shoe.
The “Winton”—the Perfect Stock Saddle.
The “Kemp”—the light saddle to sit a buck in.
And 70 others to choose from.
Walther 8 Stevenson Lt L
SADDLERS,
393 George St., SYDNEY
BOSTOGK’S LIQUID DRESSING
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
FOR
Black & Brown Suede.
i
You can make your Suede Shoes look smart and new always, by
the regular use of Bo stock’s Liquid Dressing.
It is economical and DOES NOT RUB OFF.
OBTAINABLE ANYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES LTD., Sydney.
HE DOCTOR KNOWS
how necessary it is to have a pen that will write
anywhere anytime. The fountain pen that does is
the Onoto Pen—the greatest convenience a doctor can carry.
It fills itself in a flash from any ink supply—it can not
leak, Get one to-day.
Price 17/*, also Onoto
Valveless for those who do
not want a Sef-Filling
Safety Pen 12/6 and up-
wards at all stationers,
stores, jewellers, etc.
Manufacturers :
Thos. De La Rue & Co. Ltd.
Bunhill Row, E C.
Managing Agents :
Norman Baker &
Longhurst,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Onoto
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Pen
A»k for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
sdf
WHAT LOOM
BETTER
than a Diamond Encircled Wristlet
Watch ?
As an adornment on a dainty wrist
fetching beyond words.
As a watch of reliability, useful and
necessary in hourly use.
As an expression ,of taste and
wealth in accord with the best stan-
dards.
We mount the imported watches
with diamonds set in platinum, in all
the latest designs.
We set them, too, in all peaarls, in
turquoise and pearls, in sapphires,
and in rubies.
We save thus all intermediate pro-
fits, and so are able to offer the best
possible values.
“XPANDIJJ
&TENT
ill :
I-lighest-grade Lever Watch, with Diamonds set in
Platinum, on Expanding Bracelet, £2l to £lOO.
“Fx & R” Watches are famous throughout Australasia.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Public Notice.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
'T'HE THIRTY-SECOND ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of Members will be held in the Royal
Exchange on Monday, 20th October, 1919, at noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30 th
September, 1919.
To elect one Director in place of J. Moir, Esq., who
retires under Clause 82 of the Articles of Association,
and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect one Director in place of 0. E. Friend,
Esq. (appointed to fill the .vacancy caused by the
death of T. F. Knox, Esq.), who offers himself for
election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs C. A. Le M.
Walker & Co. (who retire under Clause 131 of the
Articles of Association), and to fix the amount of
their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
By order of the Board, the Share Register will be
closed from Bth October to 22nd October inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
3rd October, 1919.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted gram;
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26. Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
2Vo notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Jason: The cheeky frauds who profess to
be “connected with The Bulletin” are past count-
ing. This paper has had as many as three editors
and six financial editors at large simultaneously, be-
sides the real men. It is the penalty of having a
name that is worth stealing. it ou seldom come
across the person who falsely claims to be, say, the
chess editor of the Watchman S.T.: Half a dozen
explanations of the origin of the military
salute are given. Probably it came from
Asia, the idea being to shade the eyes from
the bright light emanating from the boss.
Anyway, you will still see the coolie bowing
his head and holding the hand well over the brows.
Exile (San Francisco) : The awful piffle they
sang during Fleet Week there can’t be worse than the
dreadful punk they send to Australia per cino.-film.
....Hex: “Wild Ducks” slaughtered.... Stony:
Horrible Jack Tivey: “Dishonorable” might be
worse, but it’s doubtful E.S.: Too coarse
H.K.W.: Wait till Valentine’s Day comes round
(Feb. 14, or thereabouts) and send it to your most-
beloved enemy A.L.R.: None of the bunch can
make life more encouraging... .Terwin: “His Ver-
sion” is not correct.... Ivy G.: Try again. .. .E.R.:
Send it to a Yankee magazine. .. .J.A.Y ,S.: No good.
...Kathleeen R.: It’s not on the rails, but get steam
up for another run Oliver B.: Those simple rustic
themes are worthy of your genius:—
Out in the back, always on the track,
Billy Tee, the well-known swaggy,
With his quart-pot and his nose-sack
He would boast he’d make the best pot of tea.
Billy was always home, as you will see,
As he would never leave the Murruinbidgee;
He would talk. about his mates as we,
And the times he had when on the spree.
When asked him why he don’t get work,.
Why work ! That I could never agree ;
I never intend to soil my hands with dirt
As long as I can get my quart-pot of tea.
He had a pleading and supple knack,
Of cadging of anyone on the track;
He would go on his knees, take of his hat,
Ask for a bit of flour, tea and bit of fat.
. ...K'.S. (Kirribilli) : “Book Shop” doesn’t g 0....
Quelques Mot: Doesn’t get in here Alan B.: Don’t
care for “stillness.” C.D. (New Town): “Yellow
Stripes” misses A.L.N.: Its “wildness” is too
tame.... J.J.J.: Yarn about insane person called
Peter moves very feebly Signaller T.: No yarn.
... .Frank R.: Get it framed and read it every night
before you kneel to pray. .. . Riverina: Original is
it?... .Gabby : No good at a 11... . A.C.8.: “A Run
on Ducks” didn’t get far. Aru-O.: Don’t type
your lines so close together A.S.E.: No; no
gravel in it C.P.: Put it into 20 lines and don’t
type it on both sides of the paper. Returning.,..
E.J.8.: Much obliged for the Spring verses which
appeared in the Cairns Post. Now, why didn’t you
send the leading article? J.W.N.: .That’s the
stuff we want. Got any more ?. .. . H.C.W.: “A
Vinters Ride” is poor going. “Reflections” very
dull. “The Secret” should have been kept....
R.S.A.: “Rip Van Wayback” doesn’t find his way
in, but you should have some good copy rofind
about you. ...F. Violet E.: Not our line of verse.
....A. Ditton: No. ... Flicker: It was weakest in
the number of stamps you put on the envelope.
How much do you think three ha’pence will do
these times?. .. .Triton: They’re not absolutely bad,
but they show the ’prentice hand.... Detector: The
really interesting point is that you run Martha
with her expensive tastes, a motor-car, a nurse,
children and servants for £5OO a year. Tell us.
....D.T. (Christchurch): No interest. .. .Aspiration:
There is no merit whatever in writing artificial prose
in lines that look like verse H. J.L.: Same old
‘ yarn. . . .D.8.C.: “Youth” thin in translation, what-
ever it may be like in the original. . . .Scotia: Lame
in all its feet; also the idea is moth-eaten....
Mother’s Dream: Doesn’t look like poetry.... G.C.
(Darlinghurst) : Unhumorous Chris. L.: Send us
your sixty-ninth attempt M.S.: “Philanthropist”
fails on a bad rhyme. A six-line effort should be
perfect. .. .R.G.8.: No use. .. .K.N.A.: Doesn’t score.
.... F.R. (Kew) : What’s the use of writing when
you have nothing to say? Webfoot: The verse
isn’t good enough to carry it; and it isn’t a particu-
larly heavy load C.F.P.: “Sydney Harbor” has
been written about once or twice before, and your
verse doesn’t suggest anything new 5.H.8.:
Nearly Moi: Thin yarn The Exile: Verse
doesn’t get near.. . .N.M.8.: Nicely written, but not
what we want Bellerive: “The Rhyme of Cats”
does it:—
Valued for mice and gnawing rats,
Are crafty, active and restless cats.
Upon the roof-tops they waileth and fight
Arouse us from sleep in the dead of nignt,
Heedless of boots or hard brickbats.
Scamper and shriek the notorious cats.
They retreat in a body and return again,
Waileth together with might and main.
Valued for mice and gnawing rats,
Are restless, brawling and hideous cats.
. ...C.J.S.: It doesn’t matter fourpenee to any
reader of this paper whether she powders her nose
or not.. Seedy: Not up A.P.R.: “Bill” must go
back... .C.M.L.: “Woman of the Hills” can stay
there. . . .Darby : Yarn no use. . . .Stupid : No. .. .
Junius Redivivus: Address to William Hughes,
apparently written with an elephant’s trunk dipped in
tar, rejected without tears.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
4
D. McN.: You’re not past the scrapbook stage.
.... Hamlet: Your line is a bit hard yet. Try for
a little more freedom... .C.V.J.D.: It goes home.
. ...A.N.: Why draw two old gentlemen when what
is needed is one furious old gentleman and a humble
youth ?. .. . A.G.: Both men are sad because they
know their hats don’t fit them. The woman isn’t
looking at the picture she is talking about....
Charley: Good try.... F. J.T.: Point of that jest
isn’t visible... .T.M.C.: Call it a failure and pass
it to the furnace. .. ..las. N.: It fails A.S.R.:
He’s a badly-drawn stage tramp... .D.D.T.: Don’t
have any more brain-waves like that one... .F.D.:
Drawing not good enough; jest too thin. .. . W. 8.:
One of the also-rans. .. .Mrs. P.: Mistook the priest
for a towering female. Accompanying remark is
du11... .T.N.S.: Seems to need some sort of ex-
planation. Can’t stop to listen. ... 5.N.0.: They
make us feel morbid. Get out. .. .Norman A.: You’re
one of the beginners. Keep going... .C.S.: Apply
again in ten years. .. .W.C.: Of course he murdered
the impertinent waiter at once. You can’t draw
much.... J. 8.: Don’t describe yourself as an artist
until you accumulate a little knowledge... .C.N.D.:
People don’t talk like that nor do they look like
that.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Gabtnes-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2, 4', 6 Spring Street,
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 12,
VENTURA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bunking, Public Companies. Sic.
THK
Bank of Queensland Limited
I
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Ivt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
Iv.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
Geneiia i, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amarioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OfToMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
AVOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
_ land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places..
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. •• •• £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • ■ •. 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and thioughout
•the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 30.
R.M.S. MAKURA, November.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the An-Ked Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all he
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 250 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
A
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to *
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Directors:
WALES.
£4,000,000
3,100,000
4,000,000
£11,100,000
The Hon. Sir Cnarles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
■A3KCIAS 80IiSi30 aVSH I
mjrajsng«iiußf-fifqjiroauoiuiuo{)
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIES at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,382,018 15 0
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,002,018 15 0
/A
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W, Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
0. E. Friend, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County, Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
S Li l upins:.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Csrcuintt a :ic es Perm!t tips').
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR PORT ALMA, MACKAY AND BOWEN.
Huddart ParkerLi^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE PIKE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
,and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
I COOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address'
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton $ Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Uitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co, (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S'. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth; Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


ft*
■■
STYLE
JUDGMENT!
ABBEY SHOES.
The exclusive shapes now showing- possess
commendable attractiveness. The foot-
wear illustrated is one of many shapes
specially designed for comfort and wear.
A choice Patent Golosh Bal.. with Dull
Galt Legs, a smart, made-to-order style.
PRICE 47/6.
A very distinctive boot for Dress Wear.
In half and full sizes, and C and D
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
After reading, wiii you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper DepQt,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
A
Conspicuously Well Hatted but not
Hatted Conspicuously.
sd
Spring and Summer Models.
Stetson
Knox
Herbert Johnson
Tress
Scott’s
A. J. White
Woodrow’s.
3!itlidri» 3iunt S.Co,
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
m
3
The NEW EDISON
gives to the world for the first time
music’s re-creation.
Do not be satisfied with the imperfect reproduction
of a talking-machine when you can now have the
faultless Re-creation of The NE\jj/ EDISON.
There is no difference whatever between the original
rendering and the Edison Re-creation; there are no
harsh, nasal sounds—every Overtone being clearly
and beautifully Re-created.
World-famed musicians have proved this to huge
audiences composed of the world s keenest critics.
Of all the wonders Mr. Edison has accomplished
nothing has ever given him greater satisfaction than
The NEW EDISON.
Full information will be supplied, post free, on
lequest. Send 'l OUR name and address to-day.
.THOMAS A. EDISON", LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
f
irifs
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
sdf
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calilire, lS'in.. round steel
barrel: open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2*ll>. 7
(Postage—N.3.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
22/6
ds
“Simple and extra stro>ig in construction .”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloved tip
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
45/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers
First-class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
f
“Suitable for small game and target shooting”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel
length over all, 35in.; weight 4|lb.; slide action, blade
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
65/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
Mm
'‘Shoots with guaranteed accuracy”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about 511 b. ..
Freight paid,
9 51-
3*
“EVER READY” pmNT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. POST FREE
dsf
“A suitable weapon for the boy.'’
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel, 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/0; other States, 3/2.)
3 51-
sd
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
J 839. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model. 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight 551 b.
Freight paid,
£7/10/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water~ and Moisture~proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
2|102
- AM
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
1892
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
£5/15/-
£6
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid,
£.5/10 /-
Illustrated Firearms and Fist Post Free to any address.
1C
J
rnsnuiLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
aJS,
City Sports Depot
9 9 King St, also at
Newcastle d Brisbane


Rexona—the New Triangular
Shaving Stick.
Mr. Til OS. HAWKINS (.from a painting by Herbert Beecroft).
Rexona Shaving Soap
is absolutely ideal, says
Mr. Thos. Hawkins.
I am delighted with your
Rexona Shaving Soap, for
it is by far the best I have
ever used. I always use a
Shaving Stick, and I think
your new triangular Stick
is a great improvement
over the old style of round
sticks, and I And that
after lathering with the
Rexona Shaving Soap that
the razor seems to glide
over the face much more
smoothly. This Soap cer-
tainly softens the beard in
a wonderful manner, and
there is no question but
that it keeps the skin in
far better condition. I
have always been a be-
liever in a Medicated Soap
for Shaving, and I give
you the palm for produc-
ing one that I consider
absolutely ideal.
In the past I have
noticed that after shaving
the skin seemed rough and
looked as if it might have
been blistered, but such is
never the case with
Rexona Shaving Soap.
If this line does not take
on in this market, well, I
miss my guess, and I am
sure I wish you every
luck. Cordially yours,
(Sgd.)
THOMAS HAWKINS,
14 Wentworth Street,
Paddington.
A Rexona Product—Watch for the Triangular Stick.
Hero is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this time
tvhioh will be appreciated by men wherever beards grow. Rexona Shaving Soa,p con-
tains the same Oils and Essences that have made Rexona famous the world over,
mid is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick which is a
soap and lotion combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers
the skin against wind and bad weather.
Rexona Shaving Soap is something entirely new in every respect. Watch for the
triangular enamelled box, for Rexona Shaving Stick is not round, like the old-
fashioned kinds, but triangular, and packed in a triangular enamelled box, tasty and
M neat, easy to hold, and dainty in every respect.
Rexona Shaving Stick is sold everywhere at 1/6, or, if
unable to procure locally, will be sent post free upon receipt
of the price, 1/6, by the Sole Proprietors, Rexona Pro-
prietary Company, 131-5 Clarence Street, Sydney.
f
SHAVING STICK
'■ *
M
HALF the joy of motoring would be lost if one could not ride
with perfect ease.
Maxwell Motor Car owners delight to ride all day in their
Maxwell Car. Whether one drives or rides in the tonneau, there
is a certain ease that stamps the Maxwell as an exceptionally roomy,
easy-riding, popular-priced motor-car.
Nor is the comfort in any degree sacrificed by the thought of
what the petrol or tyre cost will be. Maxwell Motor Cars are easy
on the driver, the rider and the purse.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc,,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D, Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “ Liandum —New York.”
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.
“Shut Your Head!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the wail of the male of the Anglo-
Saxon race —
“Shet yer head!”—
Who is hurled round the world and then
hurtled into space—
“Shet yer head!” —
To his cackling, harping woman,
Who with vigor superhuman
(Or endurance granted few men)
Clacks and mags at him for ever.
(Shet yer head!)
Shut your head ! Shut your head!
Shut your head! Shut yer head.
Shut your head, shut your head ,
Shet yer head!
Shut your—shut your head!
Shut yer head. Shut your head.
Shet yer something, something.
Something, something head .
Why’d I marry yer? Why’d I marry yer?
(Shet yer head, shet yer head!)
Why’d I marry yer? Why’d I marry yer?
(Shet yer head!)
Oh, yer married to illtreat me,
But yer mustn’t think you’ve beat me.
Now, ver needn’t try ter eat me. .
(Shut your head!)
I’m in rags, I’m in rags! .
(Shut your head. Shut youi head.)
I’m in rags, I’m in rags!
(Shet yer head!)
Never have a decent hat,
Like that next-door soldiers cat—
Oh, a lot yer care fer that!
(Shet yer head!)
If I was like other wimmin!
(Shet yer head ! Shet yer head !)
Now, just look at Missis Scrimmm!
(Shet yer head!)
She can gad about, she can —
Never cooks a meal for Dan.
But Dan Scrimmin is a Man!
(Shet yer head!)
Oh, we wimmin’s come Jo stay !
(Shut your head !)
And you men have had your day!
(Shet yer head! Shet yer head!)
Mrs. Walsh’ll make it hot,
For the lazy, loafing lot
(Shut your head; you’re talkin’ rot!
Shut your head!)
We want Hughes! We want Hughes!
(Shut your head! Shut your head!)
We want Hughes. We want Yobs!!
(Shet yer head ! 1
Billy Hughes’ll put yer through
And protect us women too
From the likes of such as you!
(Shet yer head!)
Hoh, yes! Git yer hat, yer skunk!
(Shet yer head !)
Go ’n’ get drunk ! Go ’n’ git drunk !
(Shet yer head!)
Throw yer dinner on the floor,
Kick the cat and bang the door,
Hope yer don’t come home no more!
(Shet yer head!)
’Tis the wail of the inale of the Anglo-Saxon
race —
“Shut yer head!” —
Who is whirled round the world and then
hurtled into space—
“ Shut yer head !”
When his wife states the position,
Or the crank unfolds his mission
To the Shrieks of each condition —•
“Shut your head!”
(Do the thing, and shut your head!)
Shut your head, shut your head,
Shut your head, shut your head;
Shet yer head!
Shut your head —shut your head!
Shut yer head, shut your head.
Shet yer blanky, crimson, something,
Something head !
N.SAV.
HENRY LAWSON.
“Bringing His Sheaves.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KOROBAMBO, shamed into indentures
of labor by the cupidity of his wife
for turkey-red and beads, fell to the
recruiter, and left his village in Pani for
an exile of 36 moons! Australia had not
yet taken firm hold of Papua, and black-
birding to Queensland plantations was still
lively. There was as yet no Government to
fix wages and convert them into goods at
Government prices, so that the slop-chest
of a schooner was still the pay-desk.
Korobambo had served his three years in
wonder and disgust, doing all those unneces-
sary labors which seem mad to the native
mind; carrying food and stores through
strange jungles far from home, among
strange brown men whose looks of menace
froze his soul. He was mad of fear at the
end of his first six months of awfulness;
and he became sane again, and very weary
in the two and a half years that followed —
of hoeing rubber; of cleaning palm-rows
of bladegrass; of chipping cocoanut to be
copra in the turkish bath of the drying-
house. Occasionally he had helped load a
copra cargo or discharge a ship of stores,
learning how to make a purposeful breaking
of a bag of sugar look like an accident, and
broaching a handful of the sweet cargo when
the white-man overseer wasn’t looking. He
had his w r ages of five shillings a month, food,
tobacco and a monthly sulu to cover naked-
ness; and that mean £9, after three years,
seemed to him inexhaustible wealth.. He
had it in notes, and these he placed in the
scanty cocoanut fibre which was his perineal
band, he being determined to save his latest
sulu for holiday wear at home. Home
seemed very far away, moving further ana
further during that three years’ nightmare.
His memory, fitted to retain only for a week
or a month, wondered what his wife had
grown to be. He could not recall her face
nor the face of his best pig. He could not
remember how many dogs’ skulls hung in
the chief’s house ; nor the tattooings on his
sister’s breast; nor the brother who had
been drowned when the lakatoi went west to
buy sago. The horror of the last three
years had wiped the slate of his more remote
past; all he could remember of his village
was the houses perched by the rocky cape
in the jungle, like stilts in the sea, and
the sea itself five miles away. And now the
nightmare was over, and he was going back
to dreams. .
The schooner to return the time-expired
laborers to their villages was taking in
water, and while the water-boat slowly filled
the tanks the Reverend Pennychook, of the
Coral Sea Mission, said many words, in and
out of season, to the wondering natives. He
told them that “Man goeth to his work and
to his labor, and returneth home in the even-
ing,” which was not applicable, seeing that
the evening of their return was but one in
three years; and he remarked that man had
labored in the field and was now going home
“bringing hig sheaves with him.”
After the meeting he met them all the
door and took a sheaf from each boy. Koro-
bambo wished to give nothing, but was
shamed into contributing to the building ot
a nice galvanised horror to supersede the
existing church of nipa thatch; and one
note came off the roll within the perineal
band. Korobambo was dazed at the disap-
pearance of the wages of four months; but
he went to the boat with the others, fell
into the sea, and was fished out so wet that
the cook who dried the eight one-pound notes
at the galley fire said that one note had
been depreciated to valuelessness by the
ocean, and restored only seven.
They went to sea with the graceless cap-
tain and the irretrievably-lost mate singing:
Home to Mary!
Kai-kai missionary!
Too much lim-lim-limbo,
Lim-lim-limbo too much.
It caught the returning —fitted their men-
tal outlook to a shadow, and they learned
it and chanted it, and forgot their spoliation.
“Home to Mary” was perfectly correct; they
loved also the idea of “kai-kai-ing” or eating
the missionary who had imposed a duty ot
one sheaf; and they were quite satisfied that
the smallest quantity of lim-lim-limbo, or
woi’k, must be too much in any circumstance.
Korobambo’s island was but two days
away; and next morning he took his pre-
cious seven pounds to the slop-chest, and
bought with the deadly slowness, the infinite
patience, and the close criticism of a woman
with little money at a bargain-sale.
“Now, look here, Funny Face,” said the
supercargo, “you don’t know what you want.
Now I like you too much. First time we
wantem nice-feller box —good feller trunk,
makem alonga camphor-wood. No white
ant come alonga that one. Now, you catchem
Mary?” . T
“I catchem Mary, Taubada —long time. I
like him too much.”
U I s’pose so, and I hope she don t like
another feller too much. Three years is a
long time for a sinasin or a leg o’ pork
to keep good without cold storage. Well,
you wantem dress like it white Mary.
There! One-piece skirt longa blouse! Good
feller! Red and yellow! You like that
one? All right! Can do! Now wantem
white-Mary shimmy. Short feller that one
—your Mary wearein when you kill pig for
feast.; or kill a man, eh?”
“No, no, Taubada! No, no!”
“No fear! I’ll bet you tuck out longa
man sometime, you old cannibal. Now,
plenty sulu for you. Turkey red. Figured
print. The Queen of England wears one
just like that. Sure! She threatened to
abdicate if they wouldn’t let her wear a
turkey-red sulu. As worn, my boy—all the
rage in Paris. Now, a nice duck suit for
you—that’s it —all the way from Kowloon,
and the first storm’ll make cheese-cloth of
it. Nice shirt now —two-feller. A pair of
braces. You puttem over shoulder like
that one. Why you laugh? You wear ’em
that-a way keep pants up. All right, and
I’ll swear you’ll never wear those braces
till you’ve lost your pants, or worn them
out, or somebody pinches them ! Now, what
else? A nice liardhitter hat. of the vintage
of eighteen-eighty-four, to make you look
nobby in that white pocket-handkerchief
suit. That’s the article! Two neckties.
Nice little walking-cane. You’ll think you re
an abogodillo way down the Pasig River
when you twirl that cane in the Place de
l’Opera of your village. Now, two. mouth-
organ. Tobacco —my word ! Tin pish,
bottle pickles, two pound sugar, tin devilled
ham (and God knows nobody else could
sell that but me!), one sheath-knife, one
looking-glass, a bit of ribbon for Mary’s hair,
a comb, two pipes, two jew’s-harp. I’ll keep
the change. And if you’re not furnished to
beat the band I’ll go he! By crums, Funny
Face, I like you too much.”
Korobambo was not quite sure of this
last; but he had the camphor-wood box full
of treasure, including lava-lavas as worn by
the Queen of England, and he sat on the
box till night came, and he slept beside it
all night, with his arms hanging limply over
it —as uncomfortable as he was happy. He
awoke as early as usual, and played upon
his jew’s-harp, and ate his fish and sago with
a thankful heart. Furtively lie opened the
chest of alleged camphor-wood, and the irre-
trievably-lost mate came by, smacked him on
a glossy, naked shoulder, and shouted to
the captain.
“Come here, skip! Funny Face dress-up
like bird o’ paradise. He wantem makem
flash alonga Mary belonga him. My word,
he likem that Mary too much. Too flash he
stop.”
Quivering with shame, Korobambo dropped
the lid of the chest and sat upon it— i to hide
the awful evidence of his flashness. His shy-
ness prevented him dressing for shore; he
wore only the perineal band of cocoanut-
fibre, now much decreased in size, and little
more than a name, Korobambo having torn
bits of the fibre for cigarette papers until
there was little left. Thus they dropped
.
(Continued on next pane.)


REPORT FROM
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.Q.S.
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., Met Soc., F.R.C.1., late Government
Meteorologist of Queensland, and of Mount Kosciusko Observatory, also late lecturer to
the Government of India and founder of the Wragge Museum at Stafford, En°\, writes the
following unsolicited letter, the original of which may be seen at our office:—
Port Pirie,
April 19.
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
. , , . S °“ e " eeks a S° 1 must have caught a chill, and thereafter I suffered agonies from
backache. A friend suggested that I should try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and this I did.
I am now about to state a simple fact, and that is that one bottle of these pills completely cured
me This testimonial is entirely unsolicited, and I send it in the hope that it may benefit humanity,
and for no other reason whatever. “The proof of the pudding is in the eating,’’and you may
be suie that 1 am grateful, inasmuch that I am now able to continue my nightly scientific lectures
m ease and comfort.
You can publish this as you think fit.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) CLEMENT Lf WRAGGE, F.R.G.S.,
Scientific Lecturer.
n-a I Pam f n the f a< r k I s the Dreys’ signal of distress. If this timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its deadly grip—for
kidney sickness first shows itself m pains, and disorders m other parts, and the real cause is too often hidden until fatal disease or
“ has Se V n V bus P ect Ddneys if you are rheumatic and nervous, or have lame back, painful, too frequent or scanty urination weak
,v 1 / , 1/zy s P ells ’ headaches, bloating or neuralgia What you want is a special kidney medicine—not an experiment, but one that has stood the
test for years. Doan s Backache Kidney Pills relieve weak, congested kidneys—cure backache—regulate the urine. Doan’s Backache Kidney
- Veara ' D °“’ S Pil,S are ma3e &0m ° nly the parest drUgS ’ “*"» a “? ”on-po lS onons.
al ‘ ChemiStS and BtorekeeperS a ‘ 2/9 per b ° itle > » ba P° sted »" —iP* « f Pri-
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
anchor before Pani beach; and Korobambo
had been too ashamed to cover his naked-
ness.
They motioned him to the boat, and low-
ered the reputed camphor-wood trunk after
him , and Korobambo saw the palms waving,
and the sea cream on the sand, as you may
hnd m a thousand places of the Coral Sea,
with never a frond too much, so that when-
ever you have counted the palms of one
beach and multiplied them by the number
ii u aD i you have counted the palms of
all beaches. Korobambo gave himself up to
day-dreams; to thoughts of the wife in the
village, on the sage-green hills, and her joy
at the spoils of the adventurer snug in the
camphor-wood box. He decided that once
ashore he would dress in his finery—the
white coat, the shirt and necktie, the hard-
lntter hat of the vintage of ’eighty-four, the
lava-lava of the Big Feller White Mary
Cueen, and the little walking-cane from ’way
down the Pasig River.
And then he looked again. Horror' It
was not his beach ! It was the bad side of
the island, with mountains and bad bush-
tribes and naughty sand-beach tribes be-
tween.
“Taubada!” said Korobambo. “This one
not my beach.”
Tani Island,” replied the mate—
other ’ b eac ‘h is as good as an-
Bad men, Taubada—not my beach.”
The keel grated on the coral-trash.
“Taubada ! Taubada ! Not my beach
‘ Oh, hell! Put him ashore ! Carry that
damn box ashore, Akarina. Now, Funny
h ace, overboard you go.”
Ihe bewildered Korobambo mechanically
put lus legs over the side, and splashed
ashore, meeting near low-water mark the
returning Akarina, who seemed in no hurry
to stay on the wrong beach of Pani.
Korobambo sat upon his camphor-wobd
box, seeing the sun in its declension and the
sea casting up its swelling tide —alas! upon
the wrong side of the island! He knew
not where to go ; despair held his soul. He
sat upon his box, and, feeling at a loss for
everything, drew his jew’s-ha,rp from his hair,
aiid played upon it bowel-tearing and un-
forgettable sounds.
Enter, two gentlemen of the wrong side
of Pani beach. These low men worked not,
but lay in the s&nd, lazily scratching the
backs of basking pigs with the sharp and
overgrown nail of. the great toe; and when
food would not fall into their mouths they
waited for schooners, returned adventurers
and the flotsam of the sea. These men, de-
manding Korobambo’s passport, received his
•explanations with scorn; and, being rein-
forced by others, seized him, opened the
reputed camphor-wood box, stole his goods,
and, because he protested, beat him griev-
ously with driftwood and also with his own
cane. The lawyer of the tribe advised that
Korobambo should be left something, so that
there might be an apparent answer to the
charge of theft in the event of future trouble.
Phis advice seeming good to the thieves,
who had once had a sound commercial edu-
cation at the hands of a party of armed
miners whosp ship had been stranded for two
tides upon the wrong beach of Pani, they
restored to Korobambo one chemise, one
sulu (as worn by Royalty), one print dress
for his Mary, a little tobjicco, one mouth-
organ and the pair of braces. The other
goods, including the camphor-wood box,
they retained, and then escorted Korobambo
off their territory.
Left to himself, spoiled after all his
travels, and returning naked as do most
followers of Ulysses, Korobambo shed a few
tears at his ill luck; and then chose to go
round the beach to the right side of Pani
rather than face the utterly lawless tribes
of the bush between.
It was at Donamia, half-way round to his
village of Mohutu, that Korobambo was set
upon by the Donamians, and robbed of all
but the chemise, a plug of tobacco and the
jew’s-harp. Absolute horror got him then.
All the day-dreams of returning as the great,
brave, rich adventurer who had dared the
world for gain, reduced to the fact of a
poor, beaten, despairing wretch who came
back after three years’ exile with nothing
to show for it but a jew’s-harp and one white-
Mary shimmy! And then he thought of
Tabiana, his wife, and he went on.
They received him uproariously till they saw
that he was. naked; then he was coldly told
that the chief waited for him. The chief
took the chemise contemptuously; and then
he beat Korobambo for the crime of poverty.
Sorrowing greatly, Korobambo went to his
old home, and found another in possession.
Despair was succeeded by rage, Korobambo
the Worm turned, and his supplanter thought
Korobambo had the tail kick of an alligator.
The supplanter well and truly beaten and
ejected, so that he died next day, Korobambo
beat his wife until the laughing village came
to hear her, rejoicing greatly in her anguish,
and finding pure comedy in the quality of her
howls.
“ ‘Bringem sheafs longa him,’ ” said Koro-
bambo, quoting the missionary who had been
the first to despoil him. “My word, I like
catchem that 0ne.... I been catchem one
feller jew’s-harp,” said Korobambo, looking
at the instrument of torture which repre-
sented three years of agony and bloody
sweat. “ ‘Bringem sheafs!’ What name that
one he stop?”
* * * *
Back in his village a month and recon-
ciled to the wife whose new husband he had
killed in single combat, Korobambo spoke
of the white man and his works.
“Sorrow have I seen,” said Korobambo,
“sorrow, and that without betel-nut. The
white man has many gods; he makes them—
they are good gods, yet is he mad. One of
his madnesses is cutting wood for nothing.
For this he has—oh, my friends, I lie not
—he has a knife with teeth like a dog. It
is one of his gods—he calls it a saw. Thou
hast seen a tomahawk? This is a brother
to the tomahawk, yet is not. The white
man worships it by pushing it forth upon
wood and pulling it—as if he spurned it,
and immediately desired it again. This saw
shall come and go, and go and come; and
yet never leaves him. Then of a sudden the
toothed god has bitten through the wood,
and, Pilofa! the wood falleth apart. He
hath jew’s-harps—the which is all I have for
many moons of labor. He sleepeth not in
the string nets of our childhood, but in a
mosquito-net, with a great family of holes.
Each hole is small and like to the other, yet
which hole is the father and which the child-
ren he knows not nor cares. Madness!
“When the day is done he sleepeth not.
Scorning the starlight, and the lagoon lip-
ping at the sand, he plays a foolish game
called euchre, losing, m a breath, li’ bob,
the labor of a moon. Cocoanut and sago,
betel and taro, they grow in a day more
than man can eat in a moon. Yet ever he
striveth for more. Madness !
“Thou knowest how I leave my village?
My wife (which hath been the unspeakable
while I am away) comes to me when Mar-
bobo had returneth to Deapona, bringing
beads of price, jew’s-harps and shirts of black
and red and yellow—very brilliant and
beautiful. She shamed me so that the re-
cruiter man took me away. I carried rice
and iron through dark places, upward to
the horrible snow; while I sweated under
the burden, there were strange brown men
who carried none, but who grinned at us
from the jungle and shook their clubs—
laughing when they saw we were afraid.
Madness!
“We dressed our ankles in leaves to ease
the wounds of the grass-seeds, when we were
unloading the ship we let the bags of sugar
fall that we might eat of a sweet mouth
when the white man looked away. I used
a hoe also among the rubber and the palms,
cutting weeds that grew again always. Mad-
ness !
“I bore great burdens —aye, as big as a
war canoe; we did not dance under the
palms. I could not play to my wife upon
the jew’s-harp, because my wife was not
there, but far away, and unspeakable! I
did not sit in the warm sand with the pigs.
There were not any pigs. T&ere was not
the sand of God; only rain and coldness
that made me shiver as I sweated ; and dew,
and waterfalls and burdens. Madness!
“We walked every day with the mad
white man who loved water. He)
brought the water from a river through
a long narrow hole he had cut in
the world —like the half of a sago-trunk,
but longer than the track from Pani to
Motohu, and he washed all the world with
water, and gathered from it little yellow
stones. The stones shone bright when the
sun looked at them. When the white man
found one of these yellow stones as large
as the head of a Lokohu, he cried loudly,
‘By Crise! Bonzer!’ and laughed atnbthing.
Madness!
“We could not rest all day, and chew
betel-nut. and eat the good lime, or roll
cigarettes in yam-leaves. There was no-
thing but yellow stones, rain, waterfalls,
burdens and' coolness. We smoked trade
tobacco in nipes; but I could not play upon
my jew’s-harp. Madness!
“There were no women to see me when I
put on my dogs’ teeth necklace, and my
olumes of the Lokohu ; when I wore my toia
there were none to say, ‘Oh, brave and
beautiful!’ There were burdens and ivater-
falls; coolness and sweating rain, and again
burdens; and my wife could not hear me
play upon my jew’s-harp. Madness!
“The mad white man hath two devils—
the yellow stones and work. I shall work
no more ! Here are pigs, and sand, and my wife
(who hath been unspeakable and shall be
beaten until I forget) ; here is tobacco in the
bau-bau; here is my jew’s-harp; and I know-
that in the swamp my wife beateth at the
sago-pith that I may have sago with my
pork and forget her unspeakableness. The
recruiter man is a bad man; I like him not
too much. Let us not speak to him alto-
gether any more. If he come here let us
kib him too much. He is madness.
“Now, sing, my brothers:
Home to Mary!
Kai-kai missionary !
IZZSirHZ^much’
B / ing ? m sheafs •’ Wh M name that one he
* i ... . ..
, Th ?* re s a welcome waiting for the next
reciulter a t l am an d Motohu.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Magpies’ Call.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A TIME there is, a merry time,
4 When dawn, the shadows scorning,
Makes all the land one rosy clime,
And woods are green and flowers are gay.
And over the range and far away
The magpies sing in the morning.
A boy there was, a whistling boy,
When- trembling dewdrops glistened,
Who caught the fresh, sweet notes of joy
The magpies in the morning flute,
And gave them back till the birds grew mute
And, perched in the tree-tpps, listened.
A track there was, a beaten track,
Across his pathway lying;
He girt his loins, he looked not back,
He left the known, he sohght the new,
He did just that which he had to do—
And where is the use of sighing?
And now as you, and now as I,
He walks it, gravely plodding,
And finds, as league on league goes by,
No sweetness like the song that gushed
From feathered throats when the morning
blushed,
And trees in the wind were nodding.
Yet hours there are, and many hours,
What time, the east adorning,
The dawn in beauty fires and flowers
When he would give the world and all
To capture again the golden call
The magpies lift in the morning.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


mimf
* ■'
IM
¥ s
liSiSif
■ jiff S3B
S * ,7, ■?
.JmhiLk W'W'- M 1
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
an visvimsnv jo 'oa axvaa isndiisiiiim mi
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
fey
4 X
emin
THE fascination of
field shooting is due to
the uncertainty of getting the
dsf
game. The interest in shooting is the
ability to reduce those uncertainties to the mini-
mum. A well trained dog } a good gun and
cartridges are among the necessary elements.
Produced by experienced makers and re-
cognized everywhere by keen sportsmen
as of unsurpassed quality, Remington
GMC cartridges will help you to com-
bine the elements which make a good
fasd
shot and which bring home
the full bag.
Catalogue postpaid
upon request
CARTRIDGES
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
i>. JD. Jii4YA.NT, Australian Representative, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
"Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
lye the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM ” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6-POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/«
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send forpur Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEH,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
• Established over SO pears.
\
Tried end Trusted—
The ** PLUIV! ”
Razor.
a
►V
MOTOR LORRIE)
r
Denby’s Emergency Fleet,
GOOD machines, like men, should ac
best in extreme emergencies. Ai
emergency fleet of Denby lorries per
formed untold service during the pasl
world-war. Your emergency of to-day car
be best met by the dependable Denby.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2|, 3j, 5 tons.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, Wanganui, N.Z,
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A
Cable Address: “Dentrux.” v
BE PERSUADED
to try Beeeham's Pills 1 All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view lon£ ago expressed that “ Beeeham’s
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box This is what people say who have
taken them who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of cases—is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you ? Beeeham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici ie of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEE6HMS PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens7 England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 101,d (36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Rare you
UPTU RED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbe.honie spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAST
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
% AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafiing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is Suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women —and for
men too. It appeals and fascinat*
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’s
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure i
Biliousness, Con-1
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
fsdf
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
af
ACCIDENTS WILL HAPPEN
And even the slightest scratch may prove serious it
not kept absolutely clean. * ‘Vaseline” Carbolated—
a mild antiseptic—disinfects and prevents infection.
Just “Vaseline” Jelly and carbolic acid. Use it as
a dressing for all cuts, bruises and abrasions of the
skin. It helps nature in the healing process. In
sanitary tubes and glass jars; at chemists and general
•tores.
Other “Vaseline” Products
“VASELINE” CAPSICUM—for pains, muscle strains, tooth 4
ache.
“VASELINE” MENTHOLATED—for headaches, neuralgia,
sore throat.
CHESEBROUGH MANUFACTURING COMPANY
(Consolidated)
New York London Montreal
f Tr« d « vaseline
I .CARBOLATEp
I . PETROLEUM JELLY
U^JConUinat £% Carbofic Acid)
Vaseline Carbolated
Trade Mark
Petroleum Jelly
SHALL
IIKVtST
I°WCLY
808
m
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS:
PRIZES value £3,500
'Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 1, 1919.
Ist PRIZE, value £750
2nd PRIZE, value £3OO
3rd PRIZE, value £2OO
and 397 other
Valuable Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1919,
TRY IT.
Ist Prize in 1918 won by Mrs. Murtough, Ken-
slngton, Sydney, N.S.W., for modest outlay of vllC OMlling
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1919.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, November 6, 1919. To
, , _. , , an y Person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will
be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from—
Trades Hall, Sydney. ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
10/-
each
Post Free
liiMiMifEyrrainn
{Patented)
»« »
10/-
Post Free
and Illustrated Circular.
f,» 6
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


mangrovtte
LEATHER
LTI
The Most Efficient
and the most durable belting on the market.
It transmits all the power which your engine
generates. It is a profit-earner for every
plant-owner who will take advantage.
Try it on your machinery.
J IIS * le lp you with your transmission
problems.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York St, (Wynyard Square), Sydney, N.S.W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
LOOK FOR. THE BRAND
All shafting's may look alike, but they are not all made alike.
When you specify
“Aft Eagle on a Globe” Bright -Shafting
you get the highest quality, longest wearing and strongest shafting
procurable.
New shipments to hand of 20ft. lengths, in all sizes up to 2in.,
also 2Jin., 2£in., 3in., 3sin., 34in., 4in., sin. in diameter.
Address your requests to Desk “A” to receive prompt attention.
The Eagle S Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent St., Sydney.
261 Batrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Boad Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Beid and Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul and Gray, Idd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
%
E ON
Here is Economy in Belting
The importance of economical transmission of
power cannot be over estimated. For this reaso»,
then see that
Dick's Balata Belting
(THE ORIGINAL AND GENUINE)
is used wherever a belting is required on your
plant, for Dick’s Balata Belting means real belting
economy. Dick’s Balata Belting slips less than any
other belt, therefore wastes less power, which means
money saved. Write us for particulars.
Sole importers—
James Hardie &. Co. Ltd.
Corner York & Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY, Newcastle.
Queensland Agents
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO.. Albert Street.
IN MAKING & FITTING NEW PISTONS & PISTON RINGS
«SL«X te fL^ l><? F orti ? n of , the C .°l t is LA P ()H : . Consequently you save but little by machining cheap material, because, firstly, it is difficult to work;
i ' .A’ 1 I l ?,,^ rom inherent defects is uncertain; thirdly, the finished article is inferior; and, finally, the resultant production is liable to reflect
discredit on the skill of the operating latheman.
_ Produce only those things that will enhance your reputation as a Skilled Mechanic. It means satisfaction to yourself and to your Customer, and more
o i in -ie oiiw. run. MAKE YOUR NEW PISTONS AND PISTON RINGS PROM BEST ENGIASH CASTINGS, the quality of which we guarantee.
Here are Hie sizes and prices:—
ENGLISH PISTON CASTINGS.
SPECIAL NOTE.—The Gudgeon Pin bosses of these castings are
so arranged that they can be turned as to be SUITABLE for
PRACTICALLY ALL ENGINES.
ENGLISH PISTON RING CASTINGS.
Diameter.
Inside. Outside.
Price.
1/3 each.
si
am
QXT 'O3 W O XHMOH
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies,
fdf
“STAR” Portable Lampless Oil Engines.
These Big-powered Engines are now becoming immensely popular for general Farm and Station work, such as
Woodcutting, Shearing, Chaffcutting, Pumping, etc., and each Engine supplied by us means another well-satisfied
client.
The Price is exceptionally Low for a Portable Engine, viz.
£l76
8-b.h.p £205
Including
Expert
to start.
w«
e can arrange easy Terms, and guarantee satisfaction in every instance.
DALGETY <& CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for TANCYES, CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH, WOLSELEY Shearing Machines, TRIUMPH Oil Engines, CANE Mil*
THE
Sheep Shearing'
Machines.
¥
mm
best in service.
The universal popularity of the Wolseley Sheep Shearing: Machines ifi due to their
having proved in practical and competitive tests to be the most efficient in the world.
They are the most profitable investment for the pastoralist.
Enquire through nearest branch.
DALGETY <£t CO. LTD., Australasian Agents ; All Branches.
V .
jBBWf-
IMPROVED DESIGNS
Garage Air Compressors.
Simp/e in construction, accessibte and requiring practically no operating attention,
these small COMPRESSORS are Specially Designed for Installation in Motor
Garages, small Pneumatic Tool Plants, Starting Gas Engines, etc .
All running parts are targe and have suitable adjustments for wear »
Air Cylinders are thoroughly water-Jacketed.
Dust-proof Self-oiling Noiseless.
SINGLE and DUPLEX TYPES IN STOCK. Write for Prices •
L^ r -
IS
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
p
m
-
The British Empire Protects You.
RECIPROCATE RY SUPPORTING AUSTRALIA AND THE EMPIRE.
ROCK DRILLS of AUSTRALIAN 8 BRITISH MAKE
are the Equal, if not the Superior, of ROCK DRILLS made in foreign countries. An investi-
gation of their claims will satisfy you. Keep the money in your own country. It needs
it. MACHINE ROCK DRILLS were almost unknown in AUSTRALIA when we intro-
duced them in 1886. We now manufacture ROCK DRILLS of the latest and best types
for all purposes, and can offer you also HAMMER DRILLS of various types made by the
CLIMAX ROCK DRILL ENGINEERING CO., CORNWALL, of world-wide reputation.
Spares always obtainable.
m
t *3 V.
It
mm
\<* -iv ■
£» .-'-S’" .- •!<. '.
- wss~.
t'
tee
wsSgas
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.,
Works: CAMPERDOWN.
ENGINEERS and MANUFACTURERS OF MINING and MILLING MACHINERY.
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS DESIGNED.
City Office: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
