

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Friendship
R. 6. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— . . . ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
~ 74» Si-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
//*-
ffimwmmmmx
...uffIWWV
(//AltilmiiuuiimllUl
uu «il|i
lON ALL CLASSES
I OF SECURITY
POSSESSION
mum"
iiiiiiin
Skn.«MdM
llllllllllln
/fanctoat 2IS-I7Swanston 4O Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29King St,Newcastle. 186 Castlereaqh St.,& 159 George st.,West,Sydney.
CAPITAL Sl 200,000 ‘Phone City 932s.
JStis-t&ce , Gesfks'&J JYajia&ej".
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.'
You simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children’s
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.—the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest days.
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILSON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY
’Phone City 8970.
iporit Arg^
"V? !
Nothing
to Ancut
About!"
/y
6 B^
cP
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
recommended by numerous doctors as being
ghly nutritious and invigorating for the
stive o:
L
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One o£ these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
The roofing that endures
and defies heat, hail and wind.
There are many roofing materials, but
m
is "/tot the same as others.
-
Actual Samples and illustrated booklet post free from
Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
r
e &
MACHINERY.
Road-Graders for Building Good Roads,
MAKING AND GRADING EARTH ROADS, CEEANING OUT WATER TABLES.
Also for MAKING FIRE-BREAKS, Etc.
We carry large stocks of the best procurable and most up-to-date Machines.
SEVERAL DIFFERENT SIZES STOCKED, TO BE WORKED BY 2, 4 or 8
HORSES OR TRACTION-ENGINE POWER.
CATALOGUES AND FUEL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
Queensland Enquiries: The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
“A.W.”
“A.W. PREMIER.’*
“T.Y.R.**
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS
Taper Shank
Straight Shank
Ratchet Shank.
Large Stocks, and Shipments now on the water from Jin. up to 2Jin. rising by l-64in.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
Rounds
Squares
All sizes in stock and on the water.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
manufactured by
Sir W. Q. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Representatives:
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PLEASANT AND
A TRUE ANTISEPTIC—
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 40.—N0. 2044.]
[Thursday, April 17, 1919.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia; for Transmission by Post aa a Newspapei.


(
jr>_
What’s doing
this Easter ?
Save the question ! No Easter Show,
no Races, no Theatres nor Pictures,
travel restricted and inadvisable!
Weil —there’s always HOilE, a few
good books, and a
GBD
THE PERFECT PIPE.
The man who has his GBD and the right
tobacco is able to find contentment under
almost any conditions .
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A'
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which/
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to
tie complexion. So 'Puns that
it "willnot harm the most
delicate Shin.
ENGLISH
PRICE
sags
Ox
In Five Tints:
White.Cream.Pink.
Flesh and Brunette
Of Stores. Chemists
First Class Drapery HouSey
& Perfumers everywhere.
Wholesale DislribuHng Agente-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., *
Sydney. ■
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL, j
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND j
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., i
Sydney.
uONOON WHOLESALE AGENTS:- «
Henry C. Quelch & Co. 4 & 5, Ludgete Sq„ London, E.C.;
For Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular
intervals from sick headache. The
trouble is caused by accumlation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act so
gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency
to sick headache. They have no
unpleasant effect to make them
objectionable to the extra-sensitive
sick headache patient. Old fash-
ioned harsh purgatives will not do
at all in such cases.
I/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting ouduu
should read the Bbitwh Ausxbal,
asxaN, 6d. weekly—an illustrated PnP
containing mail and cable news from A .»
tralia and news of Australians in Eu) P
and at home. Australians are cordially in
vited to visit the Bkitisii Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 110 Hlg ii o l the
born Condoi., W.C., where they cap «e the
home papers, meet their friends, use> wf
| telephone, and obtain information witbon
i eharsep.
THE MOUTH the GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it is
here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s
“Eumenthol” Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known. Being destructive to all
organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: “Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth; this result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective baeten-
cidally as is creosote.” 1/6 a
FOR COUGH!?. COLDS. SOREI THROATS, BRO>;
CHITIS, INFLUENZA AND THE PRE
OF CONSUMPTION.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
S 3
C The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dis-
sected Lung. ‘
D The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Digger Songs
!ero is no literary merit attaching to
digger songs which were chanted by Bill-
on the long marches up and down
ce, from battlefield to battlefield. Many
lot even coinmonsense. But a future
rian may relate how the Anzacs
bed to battle to the tune of sentimental
Is like “Tipperary”; or singing great
s like the “Marseillaise.” It may not
great point, but I think that here and
the flippant songs and choruses that we
r used to sing ought to be put on record,
ere are war-songs, battle-songs and
a: un-songs galore—some noble and in-
ig some warmly sentin .utal. Yet I
; if the poetry section of any library
_> world contains a single scrap of verse
1 was actually sung by troops on the
ti to battle. The soldier songs of this
at any rate, instead of being written
e master hands, are in every case anony-
; the invention, more than likely, of
convivial party gathered in a “boozer”
vhere behind the line.
Australia, on the march and in bivouac,
roops used to sing popular music-hall
of the day. These, however, were all
tten on Gallipoli and in Egypt, in
1 places there was not much scope for
lg, anyhow. Along the highways of
ue Digger remembered his voice, but he
nothing to sing l Then it was that
of the “Digger songs” came into exist-
st of them are adapted to well-known
tunes; one or two are parodies of
on music-hall ballads, while a couple of
ises have tunes of their own. “Drink-
songs were probably the most popular
the Diggers, judging by the number of
ent pieces containing references to rum,
and beer. The best-known of all ran
If the sergeant drinks your rum,
Never mind !
If the sergeant drinks your rum,
Never mind!
He’s entitled to a tot,
But not the bally lot;
But if he drinks the lot,
Never mind t
bright little thing which I heard sung
i crowd in Ypres, to the uncertain
npaniment of a shell-damaged piano,
ars to be a variation of the Scotch song,
i take the high road, and I’ll take the
’ ... ' ' .
You take the rum jar
And I’ll take the rum;
ind I’ll reach the Front line before you!
Then if you should get shot,
Why, I’ll drink the bally lot,
fnd eat up your rations in the morning!
iere was, I think, only one song we sang
i a sentimental touch about it:
Mademoiselle of Armentieres
Never was kissed for forty years.
one must not forget the “Apres la gncrre”
■us. This was sung by m’m’selles in
minets everywhere —from Belgium to the
ime; and from Etaples to Albert. The
j and words were soon picked up by the
gers. The words, of course, varied a
e in different parts of Flanders and
ardy, but thfe tune was everywhere the
ie, and is to-day probably the best-remem-
ed by returned men. The point of this
sion lies in the fact that when ma’m’selles
•e invited by Diggers to promenade, they
ariably replied “Aprcs la guerrel"
Apres la guerre finee
Australian soldat depart;
Mademoiselle promenade oui oui—•
No jolly bon for met
e words>are really nothing without the
ie,' 1 ' 'T no soldier will ever forget the
Y number of the songs, of course, deal
th the hopes of the Digger for the ending
the war. Here is one:
When this bally war is over
No more Boldiering for me.
When I get my civvy clothes on,
Oh, how happy I shall bel
her choruses deal with the gay life that
ldiers lead. This one goes to the tune
Ioly, Holy. Holy” :
Marching, marching, marching,
Always bally well marching!
When we’re dead and in our graves
We’ll bally well march no more.
ere is a “rest camp” song:—
Route marches are trGs bon for those
Who ride upon a horse;
They do not compree blistered feet
Nor carry packs, of course.
And when we come out for a spell,
“Slope arms,” “Form fours” we do—•
No wonder that the boys break camp
And come home “fu* the noo” 1
n old favorite is the “old soldier” song:
Old soldiers never die,
Never die, never die.
Old soldiers never die,
They simply fade away.
jhere was for a long time much prejudice
a the A.I.F. concerning the use of the word
Anzac.” The Diggers used to sing a song
eprecating the honors put upon them:
We are a ragtime army,
The A-n-z-a-e!
We cannot shoot, we don’t salute
What bally use are we?
And when we get to Berlin
The Kaiser he will say:
“Hoch, hoch, my Gott, what a rotten lot
Are the A-n-z-a-e I”
The infantry also had a song which they
sang to the artillery Diggers:
The artillery have a jolly good time,
Parley voo!
The artillery have a jolly good time,
Lobbing their shells in our front line,
Inky, pinky, parley vooi
Eggs-a-cook is the distinctive name ap-
)lied to members of the 3rd Division, A.I.F.
rhe nickname has reference to the colors of
he Division, which are of an oval or egg
ihape. In the A.I.F. eggs are always “eggs-
i-enok,” a phrase learned in Egypt from the
native hawkers of cooked eggs. The Eggs-
vcook were the last of the Divisions to get
o Franco, and while they were completing
heir training in England the older units
ad many jokes concerning them. When
the 3rd eventually reached France they were
greeted everywhere with the following:
( Time: “The Girl 1 Left Behind Me!’ )
Oh, the First and Second are in the line,
The Fourth and Fifth behind ’em,
But when wo look
For the Eggs-a-cook,
I'm Flowed if we can find ’em! '
The London music-hall chorus. “Take me
hack to dear old Blighty,” was appropriately
altered:
Take me to Australia,
Blighty is a failure,
Australia is the place for me!
Another version was originated by some in-
spired “troop” in a village “boozer,” when he
read that a shipload of Italian reservists had
left Sydney for Italy. “The old stealt-a da
oyst’ and kidney boys, eh?” he remarked.
“They’ll be sorry They’ll miss George-
street.” Then the mob started on “Take
Me Back to Blighty,” and the Digger had the
inspiration, which resulted in a new chorus
for the whole of the A.I.F.: —•
Steak-a da oyst and kidney,
Talse-a me back to Sydney,
Sydney is-a da place for met-
SYDNEY GEORGE.
A Great Book
lot since the publication of Mr. Chaucer’s
nterbury Tales’’ by the Caxton Press has
volume appeared in the English lan-
*e of equal interest to the anthology of
ish literature which now lies before me
<e Scriptures of the Old Testament, Lon-
, James Stuart, 1611). T'lie book is
ly printed, with explanatory notes at the
iof each chapter; and I understand that
her time nor expense has been spared by
publisher in securing the best scholar-
» of the English universities to make the
lslation as perfect as possible.
[ere and there, it must be confessed, the
ming is a trifle obscure, the phrasing is
iiaic and the choice of words unhappy ;
le throughout the volume the reading is
le a little difficult by over-punctuation
errors of spelling for which the printer’s
Jer cannot be expected to take all the
me.
?he contents of the volume, however, are
such a nature as to secure for the publi-
ion a tremendous welcome in Australia,
ere is a glamor about many, of the tales
icli has scarcely a parallel in history or
ion, an occasional directness of speech
l clarity of vision which startle and sur-
se; while some of the writers, notably Mr.
iah and the anonymous author of a little
ay in philosophy known as “Ecclesi-
es,” rise to heights of diction which must
e them a permanent place in literature.
[t is the romance section of the volume
ich will prove of greatest charm to the
leral reader. Some of the tales show the
luence of other writers. There is a hint
M. Victor Hugo’s method in the treatment
the story of Samson, a person trained on
ndow principles whose betrayal by a
man for political reasons led to his tak-
; a magnificently dramatic revenge upon
i enemies. The short novel entitled
isther,” too, apparently owes much to Mr.
tornas Hardy; while there is no mistaking
2 resemblance of portions of the work of
l\ Daniel to the later and more popular
orts of Mr. Hall Caine. There is no
ice of echo, however, in the original and
.'iking romance of Joseph in Egypt, though
e conduct of Mrs. Potiphar may be paral-
ed here and there in British drama. I
y the conduct, but there the parallel ends;
r no one has yet dared to portray upon the
age the flight from serious temptation of a
iung man wholly naked and leaving his
itire wardrobe in the hands of his would-be
dueer. Then, again, there is the romance
: David, where apparently fiction alternates
ith history; for poems by Mr. David him-
slf are included in the volume, breathing a
firit altogether different from that of the
ero who made such a unique collection of
ar trophies in the enemy trenches. The
ttle domestic tale of “Ruth” must find a
■elcome in every right-thinking home. Al-
lough the lady might be thought a trifle
lercenary in some of her moods, a. devotion
) a mother-in-law so great that it led to
er sacrificing herself in marriage to an
lderly gentleman who had no qualification
xcept a good farm must be regarded as an
ntirely novel treatment of the theme of
oung widowhood and pressing poverty.
The historical section is the compilation
idiicli lends itself to most criticism. The
uthors’ names have been wisely withheld,
or the evidences of bias and prejudice are
ery numerous. Thus, on the facts given,
leroboam and Ahab were excellent sover-
dgns, though the chronicler would have us
>elieve otherwise; while Hezekiah, though
nucli praised, was evidently a calamitous
ind shifty monarch who led his State into
lerious difficulties. The most serious omis-
sion in the record is the failure to supply
statistical data of economic conditions, par-
sicuiarly in relation to labor and taxation.
Passing by the religious portions of the
book, about which there must continue to be
variety of opinion, we are struck by the
paucity of the scientific contributions. The
opening pages set forth, it is true, a scheme
A' evolutionary development, which claims to
be older than Darwin; but the failure to
give the data from which the comparatively
sorrect generalisations are made takes away
from the value of the statements. Some-
thing of the same kind applies to the extracts
from legal codes. The bare enactments are
given, but there is no mention of the popular
agitation which preceded their being placed
upon the Statute Book or of the scope and
force of the measures which they replaced.
It is in the poetry section, however, that
I have met with the keenest disappointment.
Vers Hire, I confess, makes little appeal to
me, but there is a difference between free
verse and words merely strung together to
link commonplace to commonplace. One
or two exceptions may be made. No. 23
already popularised in England and some
other countries—has a quiet force of its own,
while No. 00—attributed to the great Mr.
Moses himself—rises almost to epic grandeur.
On the whole the anthologv is a work of
verv great value; and when all detractions
(Continued on page 26 J


iice
iigfflMumiminifwnwißi
SPLENDID
VALUE IN
WINTER.
WEIGHT
Pyjamas.
Warm Winter Fabrics of exceptionally durable
qualities, and correctly cut to accurate measure-
ments.
Men’s Wool Crepe Pyjamas, Soft and
Seasonable 25/-
A.Z.A. Flannel Pyjamas, give cosy and
comfortable wear ... , 22/6
Crimean Pyjamas,
Superior Quality
Warm and Durable—
-15/6, 17/6 Suit.
25/-, 30/-
Men’s Wear Economies
4T
at Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Sit;
NTHONY HORDERNS’, SYDNEY, base their remarkable
growth and trade expansion to the unwavering policy of
Living Up to a Quality and not Down to a Price.
From modest beginnings Anthony Horderns’ have now 50
departments under one roof and occupy a space close on 20 acres.
Eloquent proof of public appreciation! The buying of such immense
stocks means a lower price, which benefit is passed on to the customers.
It further means an unequalled variety to choose from, and, lastly,
when you have set your heart on a certain article it means no dis-
appointment.
Anthony Horderns’ big store gives customers a feeling of security. No matter
how far away they reside they know that Anthony Horderns’, ‘ with such a
splendid record and unquestionable reputation, will spare no efforts to give
them complete satisfaction.
It is only when you know
Anthony Horderns’
Standard of Quality
that the wonderful economies at these prices will be rightly understood.
s_
vu
t
Sweater
Coats
For neatness, warmth and genuine protection
these well-made Coats would be hard to beat.
The prices show they are also economical.
Men’s Cameline Coat Sweaters, Scotch
make, all wool, superior, soft, fleecy finish;
in assorted self shades and various smart
two-tone effects.
Chest Size— 32 34 36in.
V front 37/6 37/6 37/6
Men’s Knitted Coat Sweaters, all wool,
medium weight. In Grey, Brown, Navy or
Cream-
Chest size—• 34 36 40 42in.
V front 18/6 19/6 20/6 21/6
m
mztfm\
wM&v,
mmk
Y
iti
m
W'A
SS/A
y&7%
WmM
'A'y/i&yA
'waz/, i
mm,
Wk'/Z'Z
mb
wmm
/s/sA/SA
■Zttmwz
WAA
MSA'sysM
8
7 <//a
V'S/SA
Strong Working Shirts.
Fashioned from British fabrics of extra width.
Big, roomy design, and exceptionally well made.
15in. to 18in. neck.
Harvard Shirts, with collar and pocket attached,
light and dark stripes 5/6
Harvard Shirts, Stronger material, with 6in.
double back, with collar and pocket attached, or
with neckband. In a variety of patterns, 6/9
Harvard Shirts, Of best-quality Bolton, finished
with 9in. double back, with collar and pocket
attached, or with neckband. In dark and light
patterns 8/11
Blue Striped Drill Shirts, “Duro” dye, with
collar and pocket attached, or with neckband,
white stripes on navy ground .. 9/9
iSmart vSuits.
No matter what your size or figure there is a
stylishly-built, correctly-fitting suit awaiting
your order at Anthony Horderns’.
The quality of the wear-resisting fabrics, the
comfortable, roomy design and the skilled tailor-
ing embodied into each garment give to these
Ready-for-service Suits a value impossible to
excel.
DESCRIPTION.
COAT —Two- or three-button front, slightly
rounded corners, inside breast and ticket
pockets, two outside pockets with flaps.
Centre seam with or without vent.
VEST —Four pockets, medium opening.
TROUSERS—Side or cross pockets, plain or
turn-up bottoms.
In Cotton Tweed, neat dark designs, 42/-
All-Wool Colonial Tweed, medium and
dark designs 50/-, 60/-
Fox’s Celebrated Rough Serge, indigo
d ye 75/-, 85/-
English Tweeds, neat patterns—
-75/-, 84/-, 95/-, 110/-
Fancy Worsteds, latest effects—
-95/-, 110/-, 115/-, 126/-
3
» .1
5
a
•V-
Dressy
Shirts
Designed and correctly cut to accurate
measures. No stinting in cloth or materials.
The Palace Shirts will give longer service than
most.
Palace Shirts, with soft double cuffs and
dressed band, V-eased front, Durodve, in
neat stripes of Black, Blue and Helio, on
light ground 8/9 each.
Palace Shirts, with soft double cuffs, dressed
band, V-cased front, in latest small check
designs, Blue, Helio and Brown, 8/9 each.
Palace Shirts, with soft double cuffs, dressed
band, detached soft collar, neat stripes, in
Black, Blue and Helio ... 9/6 each.
Overcoats.
Anthony Horderns’ “Raglan” Overcoat is the
perfect embodiment of style and comfort —a big,
strong' weather-resister that will look trim despite
long and constant wear.
The “Raglan” Overcoat, with slip-on
sleeves and shoulder, flap pockets, fly fronts,
stitched or turn-back cuffs, centre seam
with vent—
In COLONIAL TWEEDS, dark shades, all wool,
37/6. 40/-
In ENGLISH TWEEDS, new effects, Grey and
Brown, 45/-, 55/-, 65/-, 75/-, 84/-,
90/- to £6/6/-
Anything from a shoe-lace to a sixteen-
thousand-egg incubator .
ORDER BY POST,
You can get anything you wish at Anthony
Horderns’ without the trouble of stepping
over the doorway. Your letter is received
(whether an order or merely an inquiry) and
attended to with the same thoughtful con-
sideration as if you had come in person.
_ And you get the benefit of the money-saving
city prices. Whatever you are interested in
—write Anthony Horderns’—you will receive
an illustrated price-list by return of post.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons
LIMITED,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.
Men’s Soft Felt
HatS, 2£in. or 2iin.
brims, plain edge, 2jin.
band, side bow, in Black,
Brown, Pawn, Drab,
Steel. Slate or Green,
7/8, 10/6, 12/6,
14/6, 18/6, 20/-
MEN’S fJOLF CAPS,
with plain crown, smart-
est shapes.
In Assorted Tweeds, 3/9,
5/-, 6/9, 8/11.
In Gabardine,
2/6, 5/-, 5/6.
ti.
Boys’
Suits
Mothers seeking a strong, wear-resisting
Suit at little cost will find all their wishes
fulfilled in the
DURHAM SUIT.
Yoke down back, stitched down belt, centre
seam and vent, i patch pockets and step
collar. Knickers plain, or with band and
button.
Fancy Tweeds, 25/-, 28/6, 30/-,
32/6, 35/-
WARM,
PROTECTIVE
UNDERWEAR
“Theta” Brand, I. and R. Morley’s.
Size, 34, 36, 40,'44 inches.
UNDERSHIRTS, 4-sleeves—Medium weight,
17/6, 18/-, 19/-, 20/9
Heavy weight, 22/-, 22/3, 23/6, 24/6
UNDERPANTS, Medium weight,
19/-, 19/6, 21/-, 22/-
Heavy weight, 23/-, 23/9, 24/6, 26/-
Combinations, “Jason” Brand. Size,
34, 36, 40, 44 inches.
Medium weight, 4-sleeves,
. 24/6, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-
All the above brands of All-wool Under-
wear in long sleeves at a slight advance.


■
"C
m
x
m
r
op
Y v
x<
piAj.
»««•'.
"■b
i§
ADAMAX
Oh, wonderful day ! That day when your “ house o’ dreams ” comes
to life, and you and your architect actually begin its designing,
The designs and plan are very important, and must be carefully
worked out, but of equal —if not greater —importance is the roofing.
When you think of roofings the name “Adamax” comes first to
your mind. That is because Adamax Roofing is known all over
Australia for Quality , Durability and Economy.
The use of Adamax as a roofing will materially lessen the cost
of your building. It costs only one-third the price of galvanised-
iron, and the additional saving in freight is a big item.
For all-round economy roof with Adamax, the time-proof roofing
that means longer service and greater freedom from upkeep expense.
Send for F ree Pamphlet, which gives full details and valuable
information on Adamax Roofing and how to lay it. Ask also for
Samples, Free !
Use LOTTOID PLASTER SHEETING for Interior Walls and Ceilings.
The use of Lottoid Plaster Sheeting means real Economy, for it is long-lasting, sanitary,
hygienic, germ- and vermin-proof.
The sheets are fire retarding, have a clean white finish, and are well reinforced and
interwoven with a material that gives great strength—standing great strain and pressure.
Any handy-man with hammer, saw and nails can lay the sheets quickly and easily, and once
laid they need practically no attention. Write to-day for particulars and prices.
LEADING AGENTS FOR N.S.W. AND QUEENSLAND.
ADAMAX
\
SYDNEY . BRISBANE . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH


CIDER
m
WTZSJy;
S m
sc
PURE SPARKLING APPLE JUICE
“ BOTTLES OF JOY.”
Every glassful of “Ivitz’s” is a positive
thirst quencher; every bottle is a bottle
of joy and health. Have you ever had
a longing for a drink that would
definitely quench your thirst? Just try
“Kitz’s” Cider. It quenches and revives,
puts “pep” in ' you, and is healthful
and nutritious, too.
Get the Kitz Cider Habit—
It’s a Habit that won’t get you.
In Baby Bottles at Hotels and Cafes—
Quarts and Pints at Stores.
AGENTiS-
SYDNEY: Tucker & Co. Ltd., Caldwell’s
Wines Ltd.
BRISBANE: Burns, Philp & Co.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co.
CAIRNS: Burns, Philp & Co.
CERALDTON: A. H. Mountain & Co.
ROCKHAMPTON: J. M. Headrick & Co.
ADELAIDE: W. P. Auld & Sons Ltd.
PERTH: Philp Coyle.
HOBART: Ferguson & Co.
LAUNCESTON: John McKenzie & Co.
A few r drops of
SAUCE
give just the
finishing touch
. thatmakes soup
so enjoyable.
Your grocer sells
H.P.
sss:
m
ll
e»
jsS
SR
%
ftfl
HOTEL
- sumptuously ap-
pointed and situated
rigrht in the heart of the
City of Melbourne
Tariff by the day 10/6
Cr. Swanston Street
and Flinders Lane,
Melbourne
C. R. KERR,
Proprietor
B 9
&&}p&cXv.g |
|-' tS&store
Hi.
•A*#*.-
or b. Alleys
• ■
m.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Ifon: R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Sir Samuel
Hordern ; Richard Teeee, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.. Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly ,£1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £23,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £6 upwards.
m
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan”
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
"SWAN”
P&INS
sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 1 2/6 Screw-on Cap, from 1 5/-
lllustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-319-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate House—Mabie,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
i
M
VS
i m
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINC.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SGRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m
BOSTOCK’S PRY CLEANER
FOR
White & Colored SuedeS CarWaS SboeS.
the sign of
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
% Champagne.
BoStock’& Violo Poli&bes, Ltd.,
sypNey.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
■The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BOX OF
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
ing passages.
1/6
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS
or
1/6
A. P. MILL-ILR &, SON, Chemists, Hobart.
[2
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Farnham Road.
The level fields by Farnham Road are mur-
murous with trees;
I hear the grey horse stamp a hoof and
snuffle in the bin ;
The birches gleam like silver rods all trem-
ulous with leaves;
The little airs that come and go are very pale
and thin
Upon the path to Farnham Town,
The russet path to Farnham Town;
For Autumn’s in the shadows and the night
is flowing in.
Deep in the hush of drowsy trees beside the
sleeping hill,
The cuckoo taps a beak of gold upon a
mellow gong ;
And downward, where the hedgerows are
very dim and still,.
The little road to Farnham Town is lilting
like a song.
The merry path to Farnham Town,
The gay young path to Farnham Town,
'Hurrying like a laughing child to tug the
shoes along.
And I can see the candle-gleam beyond the
dreaming spire,
Tutting its rosy fingers out from many a
window-blind;
And in my heart I find the cheer of many a
cottage fire,
Striding along the Farnham path with dark-
ness close behind;
The prattling path to Farnham Town,
Winding adown to Farnham Town,
Echoing little laughters through the mazes
of the mind.
Strong from the corners of the world we
ride the driving reel
And wide-eyed greet the stranger roads in
places oversea ;
But the pretty path to Farnham Town is
soft against the heel,
And the pretty path to Farnham Town is
very dear to me ;
The path that trips to Farnham Town,
Dancing adown to Farnham Town.
To the music of the wheatfield and the mur-
mur of the tree.
Oh, sweet the wailing white seaways that
seek the shores of home,
And land the granite roads of Trade with
many a noisy cart!
Yet I shall hear the Farnham path wherever
I may roam,
Above the tumult of the wave, the teeming
of the mart;
The dear wee path to Farnham Town,
Singing adown to Farnham Town,
The gentle path to Farnham Town that
winds about the heart!
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Backward Trail.
A stack of planks in a timber-yard
Still steeped in the magic of woodland wine
Unlocks a door where the years keep guard,
With fhe pungent odor of western pine.
Spellbound I follow the backward trail,
The wizard path of memory,
Till I find you fair and frail and pale
Beneath the shade of the quandong tree.
The land was green from a great glad rain,
The bronze gums gleamed in bright sun-gold,
And brown, bank-high, through the laughing
plain.
Along to its ending the river rolled.
But a land more fair we saw that day.
And lights more rare than the light of the
sun— v
The tranced lost land where youth has sway,
The lights that vanish when youth is donel
Full many a year the plains have spread
All brown or green at the year’s decree.
And many a time as the fruit grew red
The birds have come to the quandong tree.
You went, and I, on different ways,
Forswearing vows that were well forsworn,
But the main thing lost in the searing days
Was Youth supreme on the plains of Morn.
Where has it gone and wherefore flown.
The sacred flame so bright that burned?
< > Time, how soon on thine altar stone
Those radiant fires to ashes turned !
Shall man recover in some new day.
Some Heaven, perchance, that may befall,
That fire supreme, or shall it stay
With the gifts the gods cannot recall?
I know not whether to smile or sigh—
’Tis all so futile, this thought of mine—
When the door is closed that was opened by
The pungent odor of western pine.
N.s.W.
P. E. QUINN.
Happiness.
The rain and the wind in my face.
And in my heart God’s grace ;
Grey sky with the sun shining through,
And the pavements Vashed anew.
The spire of a church, and the gleam
Of a half-remembered dream
Of kisses behind a hedge to the sound of the
soft raindrips.
Oh. the joy of the rain-swept street.
With a new love to greet.
And my soul grown sweet and wise.
Through the pain in the dead love’s eyes.
All the pain and the joy I press
To the wine of this happiness....
And the rose from the hedge I bear to vou
on my lips. J
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


is
PERDRIAU TYRES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
Mean security from roadside tyre worries and induce a sense of welLbeing
that is the essence of all motoring enjoyment.
Their Sturdiness and Resilience are noticeable features, essential in all Tyres
that must give satisfactory service over our exacting Australian roads.
Perdriau success is the direct result of Perdriau Design, Perdriau iTaterial
and Perdriau Workmanship, planned, chosen and maintained always
with the object of producing the perfect Tyre for Australian conditions.
Long experience and the constant aim for the perfection ideal are big factors
in the result that has made Perdriaus the Tyres of Security.
Obtainable through all garages or from the manufacturers—
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Murray Street, Perth.
ST©
■Elastic
Truss^
Send for our Private Truss
Pamphlet—mailed free in plain
sealed envelope.
BACK of every DENYER ELASTIC
TRUSS stands the guarantee of a
firm foremost in the Commonwealth for the
manufacture of Trusses, Aoaominal Belts
and Surgical Appliances.
IF YOU ARE RUPTURED, GET
DENYER’S
ELASTIC TRUSS
and have the satisfaction of wearing a Truss bearing the
endorsement not only of the makers, but of thousands of
grateful wearers in all parts of Australia.
Single, 20/-; Double, 27/6.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, Sydney.
4 .
V IV3A , No\ n yg N^% l ? Nv
U 0!
m
v/
The Practical Motor
Lunch
Packing the luncheon• basket
should take but a few minutes.
No need to waste time cutting
sandwiches — that's quite out
of date. Just slip a couple of
tins of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
into the basket. Open them up
when it’s time for lunch —and
you have a meat delicacy that
everyone will relish. A fine,
wholesome, satisfying meal
that you really enjoy. And
whether you drive a “Rolls-
Royce ” or a “ Ford ” —“ Rex''
Camp Pie is always “in place!*
ALWAYS KEEP A FEW TINS
IN THE HOUSE
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE
NO OTHER CHEESE HAS QUITE THE
DELICIOUS FLAVOR OF
"REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 611
£7 A
me.
a#*
GOODRICH
Black Safety Tread Tyres.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
When you buy a “GOODRICH” Tyre
you are not paying for an
“experiment.”
Behind it you have the experience of
the largest rubber factory on earth.
You are on a “certainty” when you buy
GOODRICH BLACK SAFETY
TREADS—
The tread with its seven bars extend-
ing to the side walls
Ensures immunity from side-slip and
protects the tyres from blow-outs.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, X.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 40.-No. 2044.
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1919.
Price 6d.
THE GOVERNMENT GO-SLOWS.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia tor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 fix. fid. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you, every week for a year, to ant
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be. addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The, contents of this paper arc, copyright by the
publishers. The, right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is , hereby
expressly reserved 1 by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
MOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tirai Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for Ihe preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to bo re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durbar, and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ji'/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
I'.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Itoland Kay Co., Conway Building, U S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Saul, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— TV. G. P. Perera, 1G Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai. N
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 16 oz.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Hoe., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to Floz., Sid.; elsewhere, I)OZ., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 17, 1919.
ALL COLD-WEATHER GOVERN-
MENTS.
Did Australia start life with a complete
misconception of itself, or, rather, starting
by accident on a wrong basis, did it grow a
misconception as it went along? Even
before it began to expand it was five-
thirteenths tropical. The addition of British
Papua made it more so. If Hun Papua is
added its position as a tropic State will be
further accentuated. All its possibilities of
expansion—not that it really wants to ex-
pand, but it may be driven that way—lie in
the warm regions. In the other direc-
tion there is nothing save the South
Pole. Its principal dangers lie in the
fact that it professes to be a white
tropical dominion, and doesn’t take suf-
ficient- trouble to live up to the character,
wherefore other nations say that the North
is an empty, disregarded, unvalued, forgotten
place, hardly even represented in Parlia-
ment, and that because the white man has
failed there colored men should have a show.
As a matter of fact, the white man hasn’t
failed in the North; he hasn’t really tried
yet. The original idea was to settle the
continent from the end next the equator.
When it was part of the short-lived Dutch
Empire the Hollanders laid their foundations
in Java and thereabouts, and were just plan-
ning systematic colonisation in the north-
ern part of Westralia when their enterprise
cmlapsed through their tiny mother-country
being overwhelmed by enemies in Europe.
The Spaniards, coming from Mexico and
Panama, aimed at the northern shores of
Queensland. The British, coming round the
Cape of Good Hope, reached the south coast
because the wind took them there. They
didn’t know that Victoria and the southern
part of Westralia were wonderful gold
regions, or that Sydney was the centre of
one of the big coal-fields of the hemisphere.
They came with the winds. Later, the gold
deposits anchored them in the South. Iney
found, too, that the narrow northern seas
were studded with' reefs end islands, and
were a graveyard for sailing ships, which
made them still more content to stick to their
first location.
Now the wearing out of the gold deposits
is destroying one reason for the supremacy
of the South —the reason which first made it
supreme. The opening of the Suez and
Panama canals, to say nothing of the begin-
ning of air navigation, has made the Norte
nearer to the white man’s headquarters than
the South. The introduction of steamships
has made the labyrinthine Northern seas
fairly safe. And it begins to look absurd
that Australia should have seven cold-
weather Governments and Parliaments in
the South, and not one hot-weather Adminis-
tration in the North, where the hope of the
future lies. „The big difference between this
country and others is tnat this country has
a mission to show that a white race can
flourish in the tropics without servile colored
labor. The Spaniards, Portuguese and
Dutch in America and South Africa had no
chance to show this, for the colored labor
was there and had to be employed. Australia
has the one chance in the world, and it is
essential that the best should be made of it ;
for if colored labor creeps into the North
on a large scale, then there is an end of
White Australia, either tropical or temper-
ate. And while the tropical North is gov-
erned, as if it was an alien possession or a
rash experiment, by the seven cold-weather
Governments down south, it doesn’t look as
if Australia had any real faith in its creed.
Queensland, which has more than three
times the population of Tasmania (to say
nothing of having 25 times its area), could
be cut into three States without doing any
damage to the precedent which made Tas-
mania a full-blown member of the Com-
monwealth when its population was only
172.000. Then there would be two real capi-
tals in the tropics, not nominal ones like
Darwin and Port Moresby; and two real
State Governments, and 12 purely tropical
Senators and 10 purely tropical Representa-
tives. The proviso that each State, however
small in population, shall have five Repre-
sentatives would give the North much more
weight in the Lower House than it has now.
As a matter of fact, the Commonwealth isn’t
pledged to give the full quota of Senators
and Representatives to other than original
States, but it is impossible to imagine that
it would make distinctions if 200,000 square
miles of rich territory set up for itself,
and rate the new member of the Union
lower than Tasmania with its 26,000 miles.
The breaking-up of Queensland into three
States would begin the shifting of the
balance of power into the tropics, which is
essential to this country’s progress. The
regime of purely cold-weather government
has had its day and served its turn.
The Australians have learned much about
their country since they laid its founda-
tions under the mistaken impression that it
was a land of big ranges because of the
Blue Mountains and the hills behind Adel-
aide. and a maze of. big waters because of
the Parramatta and the Ilawkesbury and
the Swan and the Yarra. The southern
bubble hasn’t burst, but it has lost much of
its radiance by comparison. That is so far
as the mainland is concerned, for Tasmania
is in a category by itself. It has been ascer-
tained that much more than one-third of
Australia is so far desert that it has less
than 105-n. of annual rainfall, and practi-
cally all these 1,105,452 square miles
of unwatered lands are south of the
tropic of Capricorn. There is one big
State IS. A.) with 817,600 miles of
unwatered country in its total area of
380,070 miles, and South Aus. is entirely in
the temperate zone. Australia’s agricultural
future lies in tropical produce such as cotton,
for the really cultivable area is mostly
towards the top of the map; but tropical
culture isn’t likely to come to much under
the Governments of the South, the nearest
of which is hundreds of miles from the begin-
ning of the cotton belt. They run the North
like heavy fathers at a distance, whereas it
ought to be run by sympathetic and know-
ledgeable brothers on the spot. Their inner
conviction is that a place Which won’t grow
wheat is out of the reckoning, and they have
pawned the nation for £20,000.000 to keep
their favorite vegetable out of the poorhouse.
* * ' * *
The cold-weather Governments are so
huddled together at the south end of the map
that five capitals—Sydney, Canberra, Mel-
bourne, Hobart and Adelaide —might be cut
off by a line drawn across the map without
making the map look appreciably smaller.
And things are so adjusted by the foolish
accident of State boundaries that 639.000
southern people (1917 figures) in Tasmania
and S. Australia return 12 Representatives
and 12 Senators, while 678.000 northern
people in Queensland return 10 Representa-
tives and six Senators. The Northern Terri-
tory and Papua have no members, in con-
tradistinction to the United States method
under which undeveloped districts which
haven’t reached Statehood have members
who are allowed to speak but not vote. And
Westralia, the third great tropic Sfate, has
as yet most of its voting power in the South
by reason of two accidents —(1) the fact
that the Swan River was in the line of sail-
ing vessels which groped round the Cape of
Good Hope and were then driven by the
west wind : (2) the finding of gold at Kal-
goorlie. Nothing very great can be done
with Westralia and the Territory just now,
but the cutting up of Queensland is feasible,
so that Australia may begin to have tropical
States and assert itself as a place which is
making a success of tropical white settle-
ment. I nluckily, thanks in part to George
Reid, nothin? can be done except by the
building of a new Constitution without the
consent of the far-south capital at Bris-
bane. The United States policy aimed from
the beginning at the cutting up‘of overgrown
properties, so Tennessee was carved out of
North Carolina, Vermont out of New York,
Kentucky and West Virginia out of Vir-
Mississippi and Alabama out of
Georgia, Maine out of Massachusetts, Mis-
souri out of Louisiana, and so on. But Aus-
tralia started on the basis of keeping the
bloated properties together, which is one of
its numerous misfortunes.
HIGH PRICES AND NOTHING TO
SHOW FOR THEM.
The outstanding feature of Australia is the
vast number of things we are told we can’t
make for ourselves because our wages are so
high that we can’t pay them to ourselves.
The wages due by ourselves to ourselves
being too large, our people must do without
wages. And if the things can’t be imported
bodily and paid for in part with borrowed
money, the people must do without them as
well as without the wages. Thus the num-
ber of men in the building trade who are out
of work is said to be alarming, and the num-
ber of people who want houses built for
i hem, and want in vain, is also alarming.
Tiie population by a process of overcrowding
accomplishes marvels in dispensing with
houses; but clothes, machinery, etc., are in
a different category. They are not dispensed
with, but are imported at low-tariff rates or
no rates at all. Often they are paid for, by
the community which so badly wants in-
dustries and earnings of its own, at more
than they could be made for locally even at
current wages. This is done to the vast
profit of the associated importers, and the
associated foreign manufacturers whom they
represent, and the associated shipowners who
do the carrying. There is a wonderful
amount of association these days, especially
among shipowners, who, with German State-
subsidised competition out of the way, have
formed a league which seems likely to charge
us with a lot of war expenses which they
didn’t have to meet. But the amazingly
high price of goods from outside doesn’t help
the establishment of factories inside while
the fool tariff remains. The outsider who
charges us 20 or 100 per cent, above the
possible local cost can easily drop his charge
to 20 per cent, below when there is an infant
industry to be put out of the way. Protec-
tion is alleged to raise prices as well as
provide employment, but a high-wage low-
tariff country can have a vast amount of
Freetrade at . much more than Protectionist
prices and miss the employment. Australia
is that sort of country.
* * * *
Australia, as already mentioned, is full of
instances of things that it wants, yet doesn’t
make for itself, on the ground that it can’t
afford to pay itself its own salary. One way
of meeting the difficulty would be to per-
manently secure the local market by cutting
down wages and underselling outsiders, and
to aim at cheap living. The other way is to
permanently secure the local market by put-
ting the tariff wall up high, and excluding
outsiders, and taking the chance of dear
living.. When the local market is secured
there is an opportunity to acquire so much
skill and experience that it may be possible
to combine high wages with cheap goods, but
no country with its industries in the kinder-
garten stage can do that. Australia decides
neither way. It just drifts along paying
ruinous prices and freights to foreigners;
afraid to start for itself lest the foreign rates
may go down suddenly and kill its new ven-
tures, and at the same time aware that
everything is uncertain, and that the foreign
rates may go up instead of down and make
the bad . situation worse. Meanwhile it
wanders into a curious state of pauperism
compared with which the cold, logical poor-
rate and workhouse system of England is a
joke. Adding up the old-age pensioners, in-
valid (not war) pensioners, people hired
directly out of loans and paper-money
issues for constructing works that aren’t
expected to pay, and the vast array of people
employed on railways and other non-payable
Government enterprises which have to be
subsidised out of taxes, the pauper popula-
tion is enormous. The amounts paid from
taxes to make up the railwaymen’s wages
aren’t called “poor relief,” but it would
make no difference if they were, barring the
insult.
* * * •
Steel, iron and brassware and machinery
m many varieties and clothing of many kinds
are among the goods that Australia reckons
lt: „ can’t afford to make because it can’t
afford its own remuneration. Cotton goods
are a striking instance. The growing of
cotton was held originally to be a nigger
industry which could only pay nigger wages
—this because slave niggers were employed
at it. uhy the growing rather than the
spinning should be nigger work no one ex-
plained. Why cotton-growing couldn’t pay
white men s wages if the price of the white
man s shirt was fixed to correspond, no one
explained either. When the U.S. Civil War
temporarily put the nigger out of work
cotton was grown here. When the nigger
got back to work, instead of shutting out his
products and sticking to the new industry
Australia, on sound Foreign-trade principles,
abandoned the new industry and stuck to the
old nigger. Thereby it lost a chance to make
. c -northern Territory a rich investment
instead oi a dead loss, and how many
millions . that loss has amounted to people
aie afraid to mention. Now the nigger, no
longer a slave, has taken on a new aspect,
and the price of cotton has actually gone
higher than the price of wool. The cultiva-
tion and manufacture of it would yield large
returns at Australian wages, given good
management and not too much Bolshevism.
It hasn’t even the demerit of being a rich
nian s business, though rich men practise it
l if nigger countries. But it would take con-
siderable time to establish it on a really large
scale; and during that time the nigger might
resume his old cheap ways and kill it a
second time, so nothing is done. While
nothing is being busily done nigger prices
may go up another 20 or 50 per cent.; and
still nothing will probably be done, for if the
murky brother should even then suffer a
relapse, Australian high wages, combined
with the Australian low tariff, would be
fatal. For 4-J years this country was told
that it wasn’t worth while creating new
employments merely because imported goods
were dear, seeing that they would be within
the reach of everybody and living would be
cheap “after the war.” Active war has
stopped for some time, and the rise in the
cost of living in the month of February was
the most surprising thing up to date. The
need to put the art of earning our own living
on a permanent basis was never so apparent
before.
“HONORS” UNLIMITED.
“The list of honors conferred on the occasion of
peace, and to be published on June 3, will contain
25,000 names.” — Cable.
It helps to put the “Honors” situation in
its right perspective. “Honors” were under
suspicion before the war: as an oufcome of
it they are a joke. And yet the war offered
a unique chance to invest the institution
with meaning and dignity. Knighthoods,
for example, have been given, chiefly, for
years past, to judges, politicians, mayors
and successful tradesmen; more rarely to
eminent doctors, aud occasionally to first-
rate soldiers of very senior rank. The ori-
ginal knight was a warrior or nothing. He
could not become a knight by hanging on
to the mediieval equivalent of a Home Ser-
vice or Base job ; and the whole spirit of the
order was against his taking any such posi-
tion afterwards. He gained the distinction
in youth. It was Ins pleasure when the
old cry sounded: "Love of ladies, splinter-
ing of lances! Stand forth, gallant
knights!” to dash at the enemy regardless
of all else but glory. The modern knight
is an elderly gentleman who will sentence
you to a term of penal servitude, or sell you
a packet of tea, or charge you a big fee for
scribbling a prescription ; but it is not his
line to risk his skin either in joust or in
battle. The Great War produced thous-
ands of truly knightly figures who gladly
offered themselves in the cause for which
such idealists have always fought—the right-
ing of great wrongs and the defence of the
weak. Many are dead: none became
knights. If they had it would have vastly
raised the status of the order. As it is
the alleged dignity remains no more than a
guarantee of solvency.
* * * *
It is the same with the rarer distinctions.
An earl was formerly a judge because he was
an earl: nowadays a few are made earls
because they have been great judges; but
very much oftener because they have paid
a fixed sum to the funds of the party in
power. A duke used to be a dux, or leader,
in the true sense of the term. The average
modern duke is a confirmed follower, both
politically and in the field of battle. Prac-
tically every step in the peerage is a ques-
tion of cash paid to the party treasury, and
no bones made about it. Thus, when Sir
Frederick Milner complained in the Times
(11/6/T7) that a certain peerage had been
bought from the Liberals for £120,000, the
peer corrected him with the information that
the honor had cost only £IOO,OOO. The
present British Government did a particu-
larly cynical thing a couple of years ago in
this connection. A violent agitation wa«
started against Germans resident in England.
Among them were the Duke of Teck (the
Queen’s brother), Prince Louis of Batten-
berg and others. The names of the
German royalties were changed ; they' were
given English titles and seats in the
House of Lords. That is to say, these
gentlemen, who were not considered worthy
of fighting for the country of their adoption,
were good enough to be made earls and mar-
quesses. In France and Palestine and at
sea, at the time, there were British soldiers
and sailors who had proved themselves to
be kings amongst men. They lived, and
usuallv died, commoners. There were
great inventors—men like Stokes, whose gun
has saved so many thousands of British
lives, in addition to playing a fair-sized part
in winning the war. They and their brains
were carefully excluded from the hereditary
Chamber. It amounts, then, to this: that
the highest honors in the gift of the Empire
are either a vested interest owned in per-
petuity by certain families whose members
mav or may not be honorable; or they are
monopolies to be got on terms from the noli-
ticians. It is an indication of the official
estimate of their value that though leading
politicians—men like Gladstone, "Chamber-
lain, Lloyd George and Balfour —have
been in a position to take as many of these
gauds as they wished, they fiever troubled to
do so. But that is not a point of view
that can be attained by smaller men.
Before the war a certain value attached to
naval and military distinctions. The pos-
session of a D.S.O. meant, in 99 per cent,
of cases, that the owner was a fighting man
and a brave one. About 80 per cent, of the
D.S.O.’s gained in the last five years have
been earned in back areas by men engaged
.in office-work. The Military Cross was
intended originally for soldiers who had just
failed to win the Y.C. It lasted, on that
basis, for four or five months, during which
it was awarded to officers in the front line
for deeds of almost insane gallantry. That
put a value on it, and the men at the bases,
at Divisional and Corps Headquarters and
so forth, immediately began to secure the
distinction for themselves. The absurd posi-
tion to-day is that officers who never went
outside, say, an M.T. office during the whole
period of their service are flaunting around
with D.S.O.’s or M.C/s, or both, while men
who are entitled to put up four or five
wound-stripes, if they wish, have nothing.
An odd development • is the 0.8. E. dis-
tinction. Like the M.C., it is a post-
war device. It takes precedence of the
D.S.O. It has been handed out in
thousands—in many cases, apparently, as
a kind of reward for caution: an inver-
sion of the idea of the Y.C., whose
ribbon it so much resembles. Scores of
Home Service adjutants got it. Some were
genuine invalids ; many were notorious “lead-
swingers” who hupg on at bases because
they were disinclined to risk going “up the
line.” As a culminating absurdity there is
talk now in Melbourne of dealing it out on
a generous scale to home-service details in
Australia!
* * * *
The desire for distinction is inherent in
every normal human being. More particu-
larly amongst the types to which soldiers and
sailors belong. As things are, there is a
lot of unnecessary bitterness amongst those
who have risked their lives and perhaps got
badly wounded while earning decorations,
only to find them prostituted by being dis-
tributed wholesale as a reward for accurate
clerical work, or for careful attention to the


whims of a general. There is only one effec-
tive cure for this legitimate grievance. Ike
ribbon and the medal of the combatant soldier
should differ radically from those of the non-
combatant. At present the public only hears
of one class of decorated man. His record is,
perhaps, on these lines :
Johx Smith, Lt. At Gentelles Wood, Villers-Bre-
tonneux, on August 8, 1918 ... rushed a machine-
gun. .. .heavy fire... .wounded in leg. .. .rallied men
... .wounded in head... . Military Cross.
Of the thousands of other records which never
appear, a typical one, if the truth were told,
Avould be as follows: —
William Browx, Major. At Etaples.. ..worked
in comfortable office six hours a day •• • • Lived in
well-furnished rooms... .and spent leisure time at
the Club.... Board, lodgings, servant, motor-cars,
etc., free No difficulty about English leave
D.S.O.
The Fountain of Honor has been spraying
civilians in Australia rather profusely of late,
and it threatens to work more vigorously
than ever. Here, as in England, it is a
question of money. No one is invested with
even the lowest order of knighthood unless he
or she has plenty of cash and the hatnt of
spending it. The result is that such titles
as gre bought locally are acquired either by
straight-out political corruption or by lavish-
ness in some particular direction. The posi-
tion could be regularised and freed from its
most objectionable features if the money
factor was frankly recognised and a fixed
price put on every title up to the rank of
dnke. The payment should be made, not
to secret political wire-pullers or to quasi-
blackmailers in charge of needy public institu-
tions, but to .the Treasury officials of the
State, Dominion or country concerned. Italy
has an aristocracy based on somewhat similar
lines, and the people ate well satisfied with
it. If the community understood that a title
was simply something to be bought from the
Government, like an irrigation block, ill-
feeling on the subject would vanish. At
present numbers of persons posture arro-
gantly as citizens whom their king and coun-
try have delighted to honor before a public
which well knows that it was entirely a mat-
ter of their cheques being honored by the
bank.
THE BENEFITS OF BANGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Babylon ruled the most thickly-popu-
lated portion of the world, it was possible for
a lady to travel unattended from the capital
to the Mediterranean shore. It lias never
been possible since—not even Avhen the
straight, paved Roman road ran across the
desert and a Roman Governor was boss in
Damascus. When Sophocles was writing
the Greek drama and Plato expounding a
philosophy which has held the world
more or less captive for 23 centuries, a
traveller’s life was not quite safe 50 miles
from the great Athenian centre of mental
activity. In a comparison of these two
statements there is probably a foundation
for a better theory of mankind. The big
German danger has passed, the Kaiser has
been licked, the idea of conquest by force
can no longer fire ,the imagination of any
but the insane, and the Peace Conference is
trying to make the Avliole world safe for all
its people. The question naturally arises
whether a condition of safety is one in which
mental activity can find scope and develop-
ment.
Man’s mental development is the only
thing that counts in the long run. To eat
and sleep and toil and then eat and sleep and
toil some more is a bovine existence which
most of mankind is Avilling to accept as in-
evitable, but which hardly an individual of
the human race would be willing to regard as
ideal. The meanest person of all is looking
for something better; and if life were really
believed to hold nothing more, suicide would
be the most popular of all pastimes. It is
mental triumph that we seek; we can only
live more as we live in our minds. The
work done by the classic Greek under the
shadow of perpetual danger is in marked
contrast to that achieved by the Babylonian
dwelling in the great place of Avorld con-
quest ; just as the work done amid the
knives and threats of the dying Roman repub-
lic and the rising Roman Empire outAveighed
all that was accomplished in 400 compara-
tively safe years that followed. Elizabethan
England, with Spain to fight and a footpad
on every heath, produced Marlowe and
Shak'speare ; the civil war brought forth
Milton ; the calm, sheltered reign of Edward
VII. resulted in no greater literary upheaval
than Marie Corelli. Clearly, danger is a
spice which must be put into the pudding
of life to produce the mental effort by Avhich
the race of man moves to greatness.
Keeping the benefits of danger well in view,
a new tone and color is given to events now
oroceeding in Europe. With the close of
the w T ar, which ended several hundred miles
of uproar and calamity, there arose a great
danger of universal safety. Enthusiasts
saw the Millenniihn; profiteers saw disaster;
the Kaiser saw a reasonable chance of being
peacefully hanged. What a very few Avise
men appear to have seen was the necessity
for creating new dangers. It is true that
the re-arrangement of the map of Europe
gave them great scope. Every few miles, as
the croAV flies Avhen looking for his dinner,
there Avere disputed villages, paddocks or
sites for haystacks Avhich might belong to
any one or half a dozen nationalities. Fix
the boundary of Grabaria Avhere you Avould,
Robunueeria would find that a few of her
ought-to-be citizens Avere on the wrong side;
take in the Avhole territory of Rottenberg
and add the bit stolen from her in 1792 by
Mudderland, and the difficulty still remained
that Katchaskatclian hadn’t a port at which
to ship lard and chestnut-cream unless the
Rottenbergers were despoiled of some hole
in the coast AA’hich had been theirs since its
first plunder by them in the year 749. And
so it went up and dotvn the ragged continent,
Avith zig-zag demands and corkscrew pro-
tests that might have made a tight-rope
artist giddy. There Avere elements of danger
in all these things; and the matters at issue
took on new lights and shadows Avhen across
the disputed territories about 17 different
sorts of revolutionaries fought Avith knh r es
and established separate governments one
at a time for 17 successive days. Of all
these eccentricities the men who believe in
the pressing necessity of preserving danger
are taking full advantage. In this way
the world’s permanent danger may be secured
and the mental advance of the race guaran-
teed for some centuries to c me.
The still more effective way of preventing
universal safety, which is offered by sheer
inaction, was not open to the Peace Confer-
ence. The nations demanded that some-
thing should be done and done quickly.
They had fought hard, they had hungered
and suffered and died; the great immediate
requirement Avas three meals a day and a
place where shells would not fall. Blind and
deaf to the nobler vision and the higher call,
they professed to have no use for danger;
and their representatives at the Conference
Avere so far compelled to fall in with their
ideas that they talked more to newspaper
reporters than any similar body of men had
A-mu' s ; nce the time of Giiengis Khan.
Resolutions must be passed; treaties must
be drawn up ; Leagues of Nations must be
formed—*-there was no chance at all of follow-
ing their natural bent as politicians and
securing danger by inaction.
In Australia it was otherwise. Here, as
in Europe, the end of the war found a public
demand for the doing of things; but Austra-
lian statesmen had grown too wise to take
notice of a mere popular clamor. Those
holding the more responsible offices went to
Europe—not* because there was anything
they could do there better than other people,
but because London and Paris were further
away from their responsibility than Sydney
and Melbourne. Of those who remained,
one, in the intervals between losing tele-
grams and mailbags, took to writing verses
on the happy relationship of draughts of hot
Avater to health. None among them moved
with any rapidity, or allowed himself to be
carried away by mere zeal for doing things.
As a result, Australia, with no ancient feuds
to disturb, no boundary lines to fix, no ques-
tions of race or access desired to ports,
appears to be in quite as great danger as any
other part of the world. The stimulus
which this must give to mental progress may
be seen in the near future; and the reso-
lute front in the matter of work is main-
tained by Federal Ministers for a few
months longer, we may congratulate our-
selves that we have entered the zone of
perpetual danger.
There will, of course, be people who main-
tain that three meals a day are more desir-
able thaii any danger, however great and
pressing. To these the present inaction
appears to be in the nature of a calamity ;
but History will put matters of this kind in
their true light. The production of one
Shak'speare is worth more than any threat
of Spanish invasion; the song of a Post-
master-General may on occasion be Avorth
the. price of a lost mailbag. Let us be
patient. The end is not yet. For the
present it is satisfactory to note that the
future of the Commonwealth is in some
danger, and that the danger increases every
day.
P.O.M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bank of All the People.
The CommonAvealth Bank, the one big
public enterprise in Australia which hasn’t
a penny of debt on it and which shows a
profit, has accumulated £1,534,298 of re-
serves, almost all piled up in four years.
It is noAv earning money for the people at
the rate of over £900.000 a year, with pro-
spects of improvement. It is the greatest
and by far the most successful Avork in the
way of “taking over” industries as
preached by the apostles of the One Big
Union, having already, in its brief exist-
ence, taken over nearly a quarter of the
ordinary banking business Avhich used to be
a purely private-enterprise affair, and done
this without any breakage or fuss. What
it may do for the people in the way of mak-
ing the bank industry a public concern no
one can foresee. It hasn’t yet made its first
attempt at buying up joint-stock banks,
being too busy with its own affairs. Yet
though it is such a brilliant example of
public ownership it is assuredly not popular
with the croAvd Avliieh boils with denuncia-
tion of the private capitalist. In fact, all
that is said about it is in the way of hostility.
Some of the reasons are obvious. There
are no fireworks about the. Commonwealth
Bank. Its report doesn’t wave the red flag
or announce the good time coming when all
except manual laborers will be blithered
off the face of public affairs. The manager
and the deputy-manager weren’t elected by
the people or the Caucus, but were appointed
on their merits. They have billets which
would have come in handy for members of
Parliament who had lost their seats. There
is no Board of Directors to furnish jobs
and self-importance for members who require
to be provided for, so they have to be sent
abroad on “missions” in the old way, which
is becoming rather worn out. The Bank
doesn’t even pay its earnings into the
Treasury to be scrambled for, but devotes
them to the extension of the principle of
Public Ownership. Some day in the dim
future, when the hoard has become so vast
as to be superfluous, it may pay off the
Public Debt with the money; but possibly
the politicians will loot the pile before that
comes about. As already mentioned, this
institution, in which every man, woman and
child is an equal partner, and which, unlike
the railways and Yanko. and Daceyyille,
doesn’t pay away its earnings to capitalistic
money-lenders, isn’t popular in advanced
industrial circles. The money of All the
People keeps piling up, while a noisy Few
of the People Want the handling of it very
badly. There has been talk of founding a
rival Labor Bank with the 300,000 unionists
and their families and those whom they can
influence to support it. Seeing that the
Commonwealth Bank started with a trifle of
petty cash, the raising of the funds for the
new venture should be easy enough, and
nothing save want of confidence in the man-
agement, possiblv because it roared too
much, couli} avert success. And success in
one enterprise would do a lot to redeem the
leaders of the new unionism from any
unjust suspicion of being a crowd of
incapable and, here and there, possibly
dishonest gasbags, and consequently would
bring in many votes. The one thing that
keeps the party back in its programme of
“taking over” things is its refusal to submit
a sample of its management of things. This
puts it in the position of the miracle-worker
who refuses to show a specimen miracle.
+
A Ministry that Thinks in Parishes.
A matter which incites to profanity is the
proposal that Australia should work —or
shirk—“in conjunction with the British
Government” in boring for oil in Papua.
This means, of course, that the British Gov-
ernment would take part of the profits, if
any, or possibly all of them. There may,
or may not, be all the wealth of Crcesus in
Papuan oil; that makes no difference. There
is certainly wealth of many sorts there.
The place is Australia’s little bit of property,
and if this country can’t develop its own
bit of property then it is a poor, mean,
scared, lazy sort of place and the pioneering
instinct is no longer in it. Oil, or even the
smell of oil, is of all things the one to be
hung on to. It was only really discovered
and brought into use 60 years ago. Before
1859 the juice of the whale served most
purposes. Now purposes are much more
numerous than they were in the whale days.
Motor-cars, airships, land and marine oil-
burning engines have multiplied the demand
beyond all imagination. So far has civilisa-
tion become oil that three separate sections
of the big war —in Galicia, Roumania and
Mesopotamia—were fought to a finish for
the ownership of the priceless combustible.
In 1916 the United States furnished two-
thirds of the world's supply ; and that coun-
try. affrighted at the decline of its resources,
and fearing lest the oil-well is going the way
of the oil-whale, seriously proposes to pro-
hibit export. It wants its supplies for its
own use in the hope that its civilisation may
outlast its rivals. Australia, so far as all
research has shown, is very, very short of
the essential article. It has been bored like
a sieve in search of gold, silver, copper, coal
and, above all, water, and no petroleum foun-
tains have leaped out and struck it in the
eye. Therefore even the .suspicion of reser-
voirs in Uapua shouldn’t be shared even with
the archangels. Papua no more requires
British aid for its development than the
other Federal territory of Canberra. But
Canberra is right under the Ministerial nose,
while Papua isn’t. And the Ministry thinks
in parishes, not in continents, though it is
the only Ministry in the world with a whole
continent of its own to think in.
♦
The Luxury Tax.
According to a cable of last week the French
Chamber of Deputies has rejected the re-
imposition of the Luxury Tax. Thus dies
an experiment from which much was ex-
pected by the Conseriptionists of Wealth.
It originated in France, as in England, in
attempts by those who were making fortunes
out of the war to evade war-taxation. People
who had never bought pictures in their lives
started to sink capital in the works of
Masters, old and otherwise. At a sale of
Degas’s paintings' in Paris, at a time when
thousands of Frenchmen were irretrievably
ruined, and when'the nation appeared to be
in its death-throes, the indecent spectacle
was offered of profiteers giving such sums as
£3BOO for the “Portrait de Duranty” and
£4OOO for the tiny “Exercises de Danse.”
Vast sums were similarly put into diamonds,
pearls and old plate. In England £17,000
Avas “invested” in a pearl necklace, and even
such perishable luxuries as furs went to
unheard-of figures. The idea of tying up
money in this non-productive property was,
of course, to shield it from super-taxation
for the duration of the war. A tax might
well have been imposed on all amounts in
excess of a reasonable fixed maximum locked
up in this way. This Avould have been
logical; it would have got at the real
criminals; and it would have done little
damage to trade. Instead, a flat rate of
10 per cent, was placed on all luxuries, and
the taxation authorities decided what “a
luxury” was. Thus a suit costing £8 was, per-
haps, a luxury; while one costing £4 wasn’t.
Yet one < T Ood suit is probably less luxurious,
in the end, than two bad ones. The
first effect of the tax as levied in France Avas
to put a generous premium on shoddy. The
next was to threaten some of France’s most
important industries, already hard bit by the
war, with stagnation if not ruin. Thousands
of workers were throAAm out of employment
and had to be kept from want by a system
of Government allowances. And meanwhile
the profiteers had found other means of evad-
ing their moral obligations as citizens.
In re Fritz (In Bankruptcy).
The figures of the greatest insolvency matter
of all time are roughly as follows: Liabilities
(as tabulated by the parties affected)., eight
thousand five hundred million pounds ster-
ling; assets (as estimated last week by the
Reparation Commission), two hundred mil-
lions sterling. The bankrupt, as in all
schedule-filing cases, has proclaimed bis
inability to pay a farthing. He pos-
sesses the clothes he stands up in and
no more, and if further harassed he
threatens to become desperate and let
the creditors take it out of his bide.
Unaffected by - these conventional ravings
the Reparation Commission is demanding
£2,400,000,000— say, ss. 6d. in the £. Never
was an insolvent’s bluff so successful if that
is to be the end of it. Germany’s mineral
resources alone represent a total value ol
£237,678,000.000. What more equitable than
to have exploited them for a period i Not
in perpetuity, or anything like it, but, till
such time as the eight or 10 creditors who
have suffered most had collected 10 or 1• >
shillings in the £. Germany itself created
the precedent for action on such lines by seiz-
ing the coal, iron and oil of France. Russia
and Roumania. Obviously, the intention is to
recreate Germany as soon as possible. That
may be good business for America, which has
never allowed its industrial prosperity to be
affected by an influx of dirt-cheap Hun goods.
But what will the position of England be. in
the event of revenue-tariflism continuing
there as heretofore? In the year before the
war Germany produced 273 tons of coal to
England’s 287 tons. And it produced 19
million tons of iron to England’s 10 million
tons. Coal and iron constitute the basis of
all modern industries ; so much so that the
progress of a nation, financially, commercially
and otherwise, may be accurately measured
by the volume of its production and consump-
tion of coal and iron. Before the war the
United Kingdom was full of goods made in
Germany, every sort of article, from high-
class motor-cars down to low-class oleographs,
being included in the list. In a few years a
fresh "flood is likely to set in. and those im-
porters who don’t care on a point of principle
to get the Boche-made stuff direct will be
obliged with it via Holland, Sweden or
Spain. Other countries will only escape the
shame of enriching the world’s criminal at
the expense of their own industries, and the
workers therein, in proportion as their tan ft
walls are high. For example, Australia.
Problems of a New Republic.
“Horace Cheese” tries to sum up the situ-
ation :—•
What will be the position of the many Irishmen
abroad (likewise of the few Englishmen in Ireland)
when the Irish republic comes to pass to-morrow oi
next day?
The non-naturalised Irish abroad are very many.
Those in the United States, South America and other
non-British countries will become Irish subjects auto-
matically, with the protection of the Irish ambas-
sadors and consuls instead of the British ditto.
But the people of Irish birth inside the Empire are
not naturalised. They couldn’t be, any more than
a born Englishman could become a naturalised Cock-
ney in London. So it will remain to be decided :
(1) Whether they will remain British subjects
under British rule, as a matter of course, though
many of them protest very strongly against British
rule so far as Ireland is concerned. In that case
there would be great trouble when they were con-
scripted into the British army for the next big war
if Ireland happened to be in one alliance and Britain
in the other. Such a question couldn't arise when
Ireland was part of the Empire, but it might with
Ireland outside the Empire. It would be Pharaoh’s
job over again— Pharaoh of Moses and the
Plagues—only worse, for the Israelites had no votes.
,(2) Or whether the people of Irish birth will be
made compulsory foreigners in one act. The people
specified would be without votes or seats in Parlia-
ment and would be disqualified for public offices
in their present location; on the other hand, they
would have the protection of their ambassadors and
consuls and the armed forces of their country. They
would be free from naval and military service in the
land of their residence, and would have the right
of citizenship in Ireland if they chose to go there.
Any of them who felt that way would, oi course,
have the same chance of naturalisation as any other
well-conducted foreigners who showed a sincere desire
to forswear their country and their flag. But
naturalisation takes time, and they would be dis-
qualified in the interim. Also they would be
warned off local political agitation if they tended
too much that way. The guest is expected to be
reticent about his host’s housekeeping. Some people
in Sydney with O’ before their names might feel bad
about this. Some people in Belfast without O’
would feel worse, for the Protestant of the imported
class there would be in exactly the same situation.
There can be no Partition of Ireland. The Par-
tit ion’s of Poland and Serbia are proof that the
business doesn’t work.
Or (3) whether there will be a twilight period,
necessarily Very short, during which things would
remain as they are. Before the end of that time
every Irishman in the Empire outside Ireland would
either have to renounce and swear-off the Republic
in cold blood or lose his British citizenship, what-
ever that may be worth.
Three main influences would probably tend to (2) :
(a) The leaders of the Irish republican movement
would naturally desire to reclaim all citizens of
Irish birth and possibly also those of direct Irish
parentage all over the world. They would probably
want even those who were naturalised if such could
be recaptured, making it the plea that they had
abjured the British Empire, not independent Ire-
land. The Republic, with a little over 4,000,000
subjects, on a little island that is poor for lack of
coal and iron, would be a sixth-rate Power. With
perhaps 12,000,000 additional subjects abroad, some
of them rich and influential and all liable to be
called on by the Fatherland for military and naval
service, it would be a respectable second-class State.
(b) The members of the small but virulent Pro-
testant section in north-eastern Ulster, on their part,
w-ould almost certainly demand (most of them, at
least) that they shouldn’t remain even for an hour
under the domination of the Republic. They,
wouldn’t want to vote at its elections even for tin
joy of being a cantankerous element in its Parlia-
ment, or to recognise it in any way. At the instant
An Easter Hymn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man as Man is risen to-day,
Broken kings and systems say-
All-e-allelujah !
Rent the chain that held him long;
By his truth he crushed the strong.
This shall be his triumph song—
All-e-allelujah!
11l they sang their hymns of hate
When their guns were at the gate —
All-e-allelujah!
Freedom called and freemen rose,
Stood foursquare to all her foes,
Broke their line with countless blows —
All-e-allelujah!
Force to fate made loud appeal;
Man .was stronger than their steel —
All-e-allelujah !
Through the red and fiery rain,
Through the bitter years of pain,
Craft and falsehood’s hope was vain—
All-e-allelujah!
Peace is victor o’er the tomb,
Death to life has yielded room —
All-e-allelujah!
In a world by blood re-born,
Despots Avither in our scorn—
Greet man’s resurrection morn!
All-e-allelujah !
N.S.W.
THE JUNIOUR DEACON.


T h i Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A us Jl?J‘ a
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this cooperative
* company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
of its establishment they would want to become proud
and independent foreigners under the protection of
their own diplomatic representatives, with the right
(o exhibit their flag, it being the flag of their own
friendly country, and to call in an unfriendly manner
on their friendly country to redress any real or
fancied grievance.
(<?) The British Government would almost certainly
prefer to have everybody of Irish birth made a sub-
ject of the Republic, and every Ulster Unionist whom
it could rake in made a British alien in Ireland.
Then it could interfere to protect its subjects in Bel-
fast if they were injured, or to admonish or suppress
them if they tried to make tumult, just as it would
in the case of British Subjects in Rome or Madrid.
On the other hand, it would be sure that the Irish
question which it has bungled for so long was off
its hands at last—quite off. To have as many Irish
voters left as it had got rid and possibly to have
them help to return old Home Rule politicians to
the House of Commons for English constituencies
that they might take the Irish Republic’s view of
things in all questions between the two States —it
would be humorous and comic-operatic, but not
businesslike.
I regard the Irish Republic as desirable and in-
evitable. I regard it as regrettable but inevitable
that my friend O’Connor next door should be dis-
qualified as a voter, alderman, mayor, M.L.A.,
M.L.C., compulsory soldier, possibly as a public- ser-
vant of any kind or a State leaseholder. Nothing
is gained by half-measures.
The Cry of a Producer.
The S. M. Herald has dug up “A Producer”
—what he produces besides vapor and
articles for the Herald isn’t stated—who
expounds at great length the Foreign-
trader’s side of the case. This is a sample
of what “A Producer” produced (10/4/T9) :
I am a producer of primary products. In the
ordinary course of things 1 can get no assistance such
as Mr. Beale find his friends ask for and receive.
/ have to take the world’s price for my products.
And as Australia is the most remote pro-
ducer of any size, measuring the distance
to the world's principal markets, and more
than the average proportion of its products
is swallowed up in freight charges, it is
always liable to sell at the lowest price.
And as the boots and clothes it gets in re-
turn have more than the average distance to
travel, it is liable to buy at the highest price,
especially as Australia is almost wholly at
the mercy of an outside combine in the
matter of, freights. Protectionists propose
to cut out to the utmost possible extent the
24,000 ruinous miles of haulage—l2,ooo
miles on the wheat going to England and
12.000 miles on the clothes coming back —by
having the clo’-maker and a lot of similar
people here to eat the wheat. To the
man of no ambition and no outlook—
the sort who would be a village’s old-
est inhabitant, or would boast that he
had lived all his life in one house,
or that he had been a faithful porter in the
same warehouse for 45 years and had
touched his hat to three generations of the
family—it appears that the Australian must
be a fqllali or ryot or coolie for ever because,
he started that way. England started by
being an exporter of raw wool to be made
up by better men in Flanders, and a shipper
of raw material in better men’s ships. But
it had a great awakening, and by strenuous
Protection it became its own manufacturer
and shipowner. “A Producer” was very
wild over the change at the time and would
have written to the Herald about it. but the
Herald didn’t exist then. It isn’t so old
as that, though it looks older.
How May We Be Saved?
A letter from a politician : —-
“Bricks,” “The Great Boss Dollar,” “The Solvent
Basis,” and other home-thrusts appearing in the
columns of The Bulletin are grounds for solid
thought; but what is the remedy ?
As a State, and as a Commonwealth, we are a
Democracy. One man one vote, with full privileges
at the age of 21, before a quarter of life’s problems
are grasped by the juvenile voter.
Short cut 3 to an earthly paradise are tabulated at
the Trades Hall, and friend Dooley and others say,
“Give us a chance and we will materialise our
promises! ”
The Nationalists get into power; they are ,- afraid
to back their own opinions, and they drift on for
three solid years without doing anything. As the
time for election approaches, fancy pictures will be
drawn by either side with a view of obtaining votes.
The inheritance of the Australians is being frittered
away in all sorts of directions to buy the votes
periodically.
Treating the sale of public land as revenue is a
commercial fraud ; they are alienating capital. To
build railways on the “go slow” policy is robbing
the community to placate a section of the workers.
The appalling fact of one adult in every 10 being a
Government employee, either State or Federal, is a
monstrous scandal. The time is fast approaching
when economy will be forced upon the various Gov-
ernments by reason of their inability to borrow.
Why should our public men wait until necessity
arises for a change? Why are our Ministries not big
enough to do some useful work during their period
of office? Why, among other things, does the
National Ministry not take hold of the problems
of the bad roads, and give the taxpayers something
in return for the enormous budget that is presented
every year? The Bulletin* handles commercial
problems with directness and without the gloves on.
Tell us: What is the road to salvation with the
present franchise, so far as the State of N. S. Wales
is concerned?
There are many of us who want to tread the right
patii, and who would do much to get on the right
track, but most of us who feel this way are plough-
ing lonely furrows, and can get nether co-operation
nor support.
To Which u possible reply is this: —
The people make their. own Government just as
they make their own marriages. They get as good
Governments and as good life-partners as they
deserve.
If the selection of rulers was taken out of the
hands of all the people and put into the hands of the
worst of the people—the roaring crowd of political
quacks and three-card sharps and confidence men who
say they can make Heaven on earth (and Hell on
earth) at short notice-tilings would be worse than
they are.
The only remedy is the slow one of education.
When the people learn that selling or pawning the
country to absentee or any other capitalists
isn’t prosperity they will have made a beginning.
When they learn that an angry,- untidy, miserable-
looking person of no fixed occupation and no visible
capacity save that of roaring on a soap-box, doesn’t
necessarily possess the key to affluence and happiness,
they will be progressing. One way to hurry reform
would be to insist on a qualification for Parliamen-
tary candidates as well as for doctors and lawyers, the
applicant to pass a stiff examination in general know-
ledge, history and political economy, to have no
gaol record, and to be a born, not naturalised, British
citizen. No mere naturalised person can be President
of the U.S., and we should be equally particular.
Having thus wiped out three-fourths* of the present
members and nine-tenths of the possible members, the
country might sit back and watch results. If there
are no results it will have to think of something
more.
An Australian went to fight for bis country
and was killed. If his pay was 10s. per day
the country provides his widow with
£2 12s. 3d. per fortnight plus 20s. for one
THE ONE BIG ROW.
child, 355. for two children and 10s. extra
for additional dependent child —
£4 17s. 3d. for a widow and three children.
Recently a collier left a N. S. Wales South
Coast port with the hatches open, and the
little vessel never reached port. The widows
of four members of the crew have now been
awarded £5OO each under the Workmen’s
Compensation Act. Even that is a great im-
provement upon the position of a few years
ago; but it is not enough. Five hundred
pounds probably wouldn’t buy any one of
these widows an annuity of more than 20s.
a week. It is doubtful whether it would buy
as much. Yet the widow of the man who
loses his life one way is just as much a
widow, and gets just as hungry, as a widow
whose husband loses his wife another way.
We have recognised our obligations to those
who suffer from the casualties of war. The
time has come when we must better recog-
nise our obligations to those who suffer from
the casualties of industry.
The story of a Labor member’s dealings with
his party, told by F. S. Wallis, a S. Aus-
tralian M.L.C.:—
A Blli.et ix paragraph lately credited me with
being a member of the “Nationalist” party. No, I’m
not. Up to the date of the last annual conference of
the local branch of the A.L.P. I was officially recog-
nised as a member of the Parliamentary Labor party.
I, however, had as a sitting member (1) refused to
sign the “candidate’s pledge” on the ground that,
having signed it when I was a candidate, and hold-
ing myself bound by it as long as I remained a mem-
ber of Parliament, the time for me to again sign it
would be when I again became a candidate ;
and I had also (2) refused to sign a new
pledge, called the “Pledge in accordance with
Rule 36.” binding members of Parliament to
obey all decisions of Conference or . Council, my
reason for so refusing being that such pledge was a
post-election pledge and inconsistent with the “can-
didate’s pledge”—in short, : a dishonest pledge. On
September 9 the following motion dealing with my
case was carried at the A.L.P. Conference: “That the
correspondence be received, filed and brought before
the Conference held previous to the next Central Dis-
trict plebiscite being taken, and that it be circulated
among councils, committees and affiliated societies
concerned.” I may explain that I was a conscrip-
tionist, and as such incurred the pronounced hostility
of certain of my anti-conseriptionist Parliamentary
colleagues. Something more drastic than this resolu-
tion was desired by them, and, after there had been
one or two failures to get the matter reconsidered,
they hit upon the idea of threatening to resign their
seats if I were allowed to attend meetings of the
Parliamentary Labor party. Making no attempt to
rescind the resolution of the 9th, one of them mpved
on the 12th: “That Mr. Wallis having refused to
sign the necessary pledges of the Australian Labor
party, this Conference declares that he is no longer
a Parliamentary representative thereof.” The bluff
of threatened resignations succeeded, and the motion
was carried. I have written twice asking (1) what
the executive intends to do with respect to the direc-
tions contained in the first resolution, and (2) when
the “Pledge in accordance with Rule 36” became a
pledge of the Australian Labor party; but have had
to be satisfied with a verbal intimation from the
secretary that “no reply will be sent.” It was, per-
haps, after all, nothing but natural that extreme
anti-conscriptionists who had signed a dishonest
pledge should resent being subjected to the indignity
of having to sit in caucus with a conscriptionist who
had refused to sell his soul to conference or council.
“Hermisii” : The sightless who are em-
ployed at the Royal Vie. Institute for
the Blind (Melbourne) have a sore
grievance. These men and women do
not live at the institution; they simply
work there, and the value of their
services is based on the rates paid
under the Wages Board to workers outside
who have sight. It is impossible for some
of the unfortunates to make a living. A
man is lucky if lie knocks out 355. a week.
Struggling against the overwhelming cost of
living some of them are undergoing shock-
ing hardships, even having to beg in the
streets. The Institute is not blamed ;it is
the unfair system of payment that is at fault.
As the wicked state of affairs has been
pointed out to the Government and nothing
has been done, it is, I suppose, reckoned to
be a fair thing. But it wouldn’t be reckoned
a fair thing if there were more votes in the
balance.
The first co-operative venture of any size
put forward by returned Diggers is taking
shape in Westralia, where Mlllen was
given a rough scheme for an R.S.A. Fishing
Co., with cold storage depots at a dozen
points along the coast, and shops in the
larger tow-ns. Starting with about 30, the
promoters—the R.S.A. —can see a thousand
men employed in the future; and they want
the Repat. Department and the State to each
advance half of the capital of £50.000.
Millen has asked for more particulars.
Unless it is foredoomed to fail, the co. should
get a shove off. If there is only a doubt
the R.S.A. should have the benefit of it.
Except where wheat is concerned, this
country is backward in taking risks. The
lankee with money to burn backs an in-
dustry where the Australian backs a horse;
and the Yankee’s country is the gainer.
Premier Lee will abdicate no matter who
wins the Speck’s general election on May
29. Drink is his downfall. The National-
ists have long been a divided family owing
to Lee’s wowsery ideas. When the party
junta was called together to fill Long’s late
]ob in the Senate. George Foster, an
Anzac, was the public tip. Up to then he
had sat with Whitsitt on the Independent
cushions. He waived his claim to the
Senate vacancy on being guaranteed the
portfolio of Minister for Repatriation which
is to be created in the next Government.
Subsequent meetings have resulted in vari-
ous understandings, the chief of which is
that Alec. llean, ex-Minister of Lands and
anti-wowser, will take the Premiership in
the event of a Nationalist victory. As the
last general election returned 15 Nationalists,
14 Laborites and one Independent, there is
a chance of Foster having dropped the sub-
stance for the shadow. It wouldn’t be the
first time, as in the 1917 Federal election
he was “kidded” by Hughes to withdraw
his candidature for the Senate in favor of
the retiring senators, though his return
seemed assured.
♦
John Percy Osborne, Labor M.L.A. for
Paddington, after exactly eight and a half
years in Parliament, succumbs to Holman’s
offer of a seat on the Meat Board at £l5OO
per annum. This is as scandalous an
appointment as any made by the “National”
Government. Apart from Osborne’s un-
deviating shop-walker politeness and a cer-
tain energy, he has no qualifications for the
post. He is a muddler in finance. His con-
nection with the Boorabil lands resumptions
was a supremely injudicious thing, and alter
chasing the principal agent from court to
court to collect a fee of £250 offered him
for “interviewing” the Government at a
time when his vote was vital, he finally ran
up against a hostile verdict and a homily
from Chief Justice Griffith that will stick
for some time yet. Of course, the Labor
Opposition as it now stands cannot afford
to lose him, and no doubt this fact was not
forgotten when the figure was being ar-
ranged. He will be on the new Board to
watch the interests of the consumers. As
a man of affairs, he is certainly worth the
£4 a week or so he received behind Mark
Foy’s mercery counter.
A successor to Gilruth as Administrator
of the Northern Territory is being sought by
the Federal Government. H. M. Murphy,
Vic, Secretary for Labor, who is a P.M. as
well as a departmental head, is the latest on
the “mentioned” list.
Langer Owen. K.C., takes Justice Street’s
place on the N. S. Wales Bench for six
months. He should do very well in Equity,
though he will be like a curate on the Stock
Exchange if he has to go into Criminal
jurisdiction. Few men who have gone so
far in the profession know less about the
world. His father was an Equity Judge
before him. Or, rather, he started in
Equity before his father.
“Gallery”: On the quiet, the Vic. Govern-
ment is gazing abroad for another imported
expert, and if Parliament will sanction the
bait, a trifling douceur of £5OOO a year will
be the inducement to some English or
American wonder to take charge of the
State’s railways. If Parliament makes a
noise about it, Lawson will be reluctantly
compelled to drop a mere Australian into
the vacancy.
At 89, E. T. Smith, of Adelaide, thinks it
just as well to drop one or two of the
many Boards and Committees to which he
has given most of his time since he retired
from business over 30 years ago. He has
resigned from the State Savings Bank,
being easily the senior of all connected with
it. He had been on the Board for about
46 years, 30 of them before any pay attached
to the position. His place on it is taken
by McDonald, M.H.A. of South Aus. for
years, but chiefly known for having given
up his seat for the convenience of Peake
when the Liberal leader had been beaten
in his own electorate.
J. P. Osborne, the N. S. Wales Laborite
who drops out for a £l5OO a year job pro-
vided by the Government, though a good
worker inside and outside for his party,
always had a lot of trouble in selection bal-
lots. Once he was only saved by a pal
securing votes from passing tram-men and
handing them in at the last moment. Like
the poet who never loved anything but it
died, Osborne rarely made a J.P. but he
turned round and belted the benefactor. In
addition, there was always a pack of young
yelpers at his heels taking it in turns to
have a bite. No wonder the new prospect
drew him.
While there has been no open rupture,
the Lawson-Bowser team (Vic.) is none too
happy a family. The Bowser section is
constantly asserting itself in Cabinet, and
Lawson has not the power to obtain the
mastery. It was thought at first that
McWhae, who carries more guns than the
ordinary honorary Minister (though not so
many as Baillieu did in the Peacock-
Cabinet), would swing over to Lawson and
level things up. but this has not happened.
Peacock and Lawson, who cea.->ed to he
cousinly after the coalition with Bowser
took place, have become more friendly, and
the possibility of their uniting forces to set
aside the Conservative element in Parlia-
ment is being seriously discussed, especially
since the National Federation has issued a
programme with a veneer of radicalism.


3576
nCPORT
Jfie Ideal Beer for the Home
ABBOTS
LAGER-
Brewed from Pure Malt and Hops »
TAKE NO OTHER .
Two Feapes-style
Coats.
For cold days and nights Peapes’ suggest an all-wool “Warrigal Tweed”
Raglan C*at. style as shown, in a distinctive Dark Grey with satin sleeve
and shoulder linings. Gauntlet cuffs. Vertical pockets, full length
roomy skirt.
Ready to Wear, 105/"
A “BURBERRY RAINCOAT” —made of specially rain-proofed
Egyptian Cotton Gabardine, with wool check lining, is quoted at £7/15/-
This is an excellent coat. Colors: Grey-Green (shot effect) or Fawn.
Peapes pay postage. Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 311 George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's •.... “Going Up"
.Royal ... “The Monkey's Paw” & "Three Faces East”
Kino’s “The Eyes of Youth”
Princess’s “Pierrette” & “Maritana”
Playhouse “Mother Machree”
Tivoli “The Better’Ole”
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
Maj estjc Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Paramount Metro Films
Last, Saturday's matinee of ‘‘The Doctor’s
Dilemma” at Melbourne King’s was distin-
guished, in the judgment, of the present com-
mentator, by Earcdey Turner’s attempt to
snatch a personal triumph at the expense
of Ralph Bloomfield Bennington. Doubtless
Shaw’s Bennington is made farcical by his
colossal fatuity and impregnable egotism,
hut he as never the obvious ass that Turner
present :1. Ills extravagance might have
been !• s noticeable if his colleagues had
posscs.v ,1 his flamboyant sense of the
ludicrous nolo in Shaw; but they were a
serious lot, all gravely versed in the course
of action which Shaw lengthily prescribes
for his puppets. G. Kay Souper as
Ridgeon was a towering symbol of profes-
sional rectitude, evidently finding nourish-
ment for a Bantist conscience in the special-
ist’s false point of honor. Cutler Walpole’s
pride had all Gregan McMahon’s poker-
backed dignity to draw on. and had all the
cadences of Grogan’s voice to help his
blood-poisoning theory into notice. With a
mane of hair like Abbe Liszt and a gruff
matter-of-factness undisturbed by any crisis,
George Bryant could have declared he was
Patrick Cullen without committing wilful
perjury. Greenaway’s Dr. Schutzmacher
was one of the choicest of the chosen, un-
spoilt in his principles by commercial suc-
cess. Blenkinsop’s pathetic energy was
translated into wistful futility by Alfred
Bristowe, who never looked like a busy dis-
penser of advice and medicine for eighteen
pence. Raymond Lawrence as Dubedat
missed the chance of realising the author’s
mockery of death-bed solemnities; also he
was not sufficiently affluent in the impertin-
ence which is Louis’ strongest characteris-
tic. Olive Wilton, never very fetching as
.Jennifer, could not conceal in the first act
her romantic intuition of her fate in the
fifth. It was a case of remarkable pre-
science, or else she had been reading the play
m advance. Georgia Hervey almost gargled
the lines of Emmy, and Monica Scullv, John
Pernside. Charles Bertal and Hugh McCrae
safely filled the minor parts.
*•» t *!•
Last Thursday’s production of “II Trovn-
tore” at Melbourne Princess’s was too
slovenly in details to satisfy even the man-
agement’s modest ambition. An occasional
want of cohesion between orchestra and
singers was noticeable, and there was at
least one instance when the bass of the
prompter was called upon to plug an ugly
chink in the performance. The best work
came from the Italian principals, who found
the early Verdi a provocation to the lustiest
warbling. Lois, as Manrico, was particu-
larly hearty, but he gave one the impression
of being rather a small tap for such a fine
flow of . exuberance. Fiilipini, nervously
peripatetic as Count di Luna, sang almost
like an angel, but declined to be mastered
by the noble’s bloodthirsty nature. When
Fiilipini drew his tin-opener on Lois, it was
the reluctant gesture of a confirmed pacifist
who. had been trained by Woodrow Wilson.
Cacialli, singing better than usual, merely
gave himself a mandate for the proper con-
trol of Ferrando. It was not a case of
complete annexation: Cacialli rarely grabs
a character and makes it look like his pri-
vate property. On the feminine side, the
opera provided another voice-trial for an
attractive young novice, Strella Wilson.
Strella’s Leonora was a good beginning for
a youngster, who revealed a strong soprano
which is rather inclined to take ecstatic
headers into the score and leave academic-
musicians shivering violently. All the
same, the voice is a round, refreshing organ,
fuller and hotter nourished towards its apex
than any other local warble heard this sea-
son. The tragedy of Azucena was too great
to be borne by Vera Bedford with customary
operatic calm. The drama surging Within
her concentrated in her restless extremities,
giving a very fair representation of barbaric
emotion sincerely felt. Also her singing
was very acceptable, especially when she did
not go out after unwarranted gala effects.
The morsel of music that fell to Isla Gamble,
as Inez, hardly enabled this paper to judge
young lady’s capacity. Last night
(Wednesday) “Faust” was to be the bill,
with an all-Australian cast, while for the
week-end the management threatens "Mari-
tana.”
“Harrison O.” goes to a new one:—
To see Mr. Tennyson Smith in the street—a tall,
histrionic figure, wearing an overcoat like an aris-
tocratic Italian footlights seducer, and with grey
locks showing beneath an enigmatical hat —is to
expect something impressive in the way of good,
beefy melodrama. He should wear that hat even
under the shower. With it on he might be the oldest
inhabitant of Poverty Point, the hero of a hundred
tragedies, who has known great sorrow but has main-
tained an old-world dignity in the face of innumer-
able eggs. Once he removes the halo he reminds one
of Johnny Sheridan’s Widow O’Brien. The antici-
pated leonine mane proves the baseless fabric of a
poetic imagination. His hair is scanty in front and
brushed up to resemble a cockatoo's comb, while at
the back it is too long and bunchy to be truly pic-
turesque. Without his hat and cloak he ceases to be
Tennyson and becomes plain Smith.
Unhatted, on a large platform, in the midst
of an ocean of “ziffs,” he was no longer the heavy
tragedian I had seed in Collins-street, but one in-
tended for the rfile of comedian. An inferior elocu-
tionist, careless of aspirates and g's, in his melo-
dramatic moments —which are many—he stamps up
and down the platform like a man battling through a
quagmire. He wins easy applause from his sectarian
audiences by criticising disciples of the Scarlet
Woman, or by a reckless expenditure of adjectives.
He refers to “the mean, vile, despicable, unscrupulous,
devilish, abominable liquor traffic,” and in response
to a foolish interjection, from one whom I diagnosed
as a harmless, necessary clacqueur, he declaims:
“Come down, you miserable coward, and defend your
dirty, miserable, abominable business.” (Tremendous
applause.) One looks for something more marrow-
freezing in a lecture entitled “The Blood-stained
Hand,”
His stage business, although crude, is cleverer, and
is mostly effective with audiences that have never
experienced anything more thrilling than Theda Bara
or a saturnalia of lemonade, sandwiches and seaweed.
He unwinds a strip of red cloth, 36 yards long, con-
taining newspaper accounts of a fortnight’s tragedies,
alleged to be due to drink, in Great Britain. (Sensa-
tion.) Or he launches a philippic against a naughty
weekly, waving the paper aloft with one hand, while
with the other he holds to his nose a bottle supposed
to contain disinfectant. This is legitimate by-play in
a show of the kind; but in waggish mood he is
apt to make the judicious feel murderous. His replies
to interjections which have not been stage-managed
are feeble and his anecdotes pointless. If a. woman
is supposed to say something in one of his stories he
steps on to a gang-plank, similar to that erected for
RIGO GRAC'D OPERA , MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Stanislaw Tarcsybski, leader of the
orchestra.
the edification of Tivoli baldheads, smiles, simpers,
and perpetrates a ghastly imitation of a hysterical
falsetto, suiting the action to the word like a film
mummer of the bad, old-fashioned school.
His favorite joke is unintentionally illuminating.
“Prohibition has its faults,” he remarks archly, “for
I will be out of a job when it comes.” A wideawake
business-man like T. Smith will never be out of a job
while there are vices like smoking, horse-racing,
theatre-going, gdad-eyes, dancing, bowls, billiards,
surf-bathing and merry-go-rounds against which to
lead crusades.
❖ * *
A good house followed Harold Elvins
through a programme of Cesar Franck and
Debussy at Melbourne Auditorium last
Thursday. He played the “Estampes” and
Piano Suite of Debussy and the Prelude,
Choral and Fugue of Franck, and devoutly
followed the trail mapped by each composer
without any apparent consciousness of the
beauty of the scenery. His last item, Franck's
“Les Djinns.” in which he was accompanied
by Miss Doris Hadden on a second piano,
was sounder and more soulful; but Elvins’s
rather pedagogic diffidence is against his be-
coming a complete revelation. Several effu-
sions by the Irish writer “A.E.,” for which
Fritz Hart had supplied the music, were
takingly sung by Miss Constance Buchan.
* * *
At Melbourne King’s “The Eyes of Youth”
continues to preach the doctrine that a career
and a millionaire are very well lost for a
nice tailor-made soul that is christened
Peter. Many other plays have reached a
similar conclusion by a more obvious route,
but Gina Ashling, being American and
therefore mystic by nature, seemingly needs
plain magic to show her the way to her
happy ending. When Greenaway’s beauti-
ful Pete first, appears in the play, it is
clear to the meanest eye that he is the One.
The shortage of pick-and-shovel men in
Melbourne is probably explained by the
rumor that they are adding another vault to
the bank where Hugh Mclntosh plants his
Tivoli takings from “The Better ’Ole.”
* * * *
Muriel Starr finally sheds her garish past
as Madame X to-morrow night. On Satur-
day the Melbourne Royal programme will be
the mysterious spy-drama, “Three Faces
East,” preceded by a one-acter, “The Mon-
key’s Paw.”
** * *
For next (Easter) Saturday Melbourne
Majesty’s promises the new musical
specialty, “Going Up.” This has an aero-
plane in it, so the eye should get some dis-
traction additional to the inevitable Legs.
Next Saturday night will be a green letter
day for the Irish in Melbourne, when
“Mother Machree” appears at the local
Playhouse. Sundry verdant posters and
dodgers announce that Denis Ivehoe is re-
sponsible for Mother’s arrival.
* * * *
“Boston Blackie’s Little Pal” is the Metro
effusion heading the Paramount bill in Mel-
bourne this week. Boston Blackie is a gen-
teel jewel-embezzler with an inherent
Mother Grundy attitude towards everything
but his blessed profession. So when Blackie
blows into a married woman’s aj'f>’'re during
a hunt for her diamonds, he verv properly
suspends the burglary to uphold the Seventh
Commandment. Current heroines at the
Majestic are plucked from the * Klondyke
and Bohemia, and they are both the storm
centres of surging heaps of men. Irene
Vernon Castle is the beauteous “Girl from
Bohemia,” whilst Clare Williams is “The
Carmen of the Klondyke” who provokes a
hankering for stoush in her nearest favor-
ites. Hoyt’s have a notable array of names
for the present week. Mary Pickford in
“Stella Maris” has changed over to the
Lyceum, where Theda Bara is starring as a
man-eater in “Rose of Blood.” At the
Bourke-street edifice Enid Bennett is the
gem of “A Desert. Wooing,” and Wallace
Reid and Ann Little are conducting a high
voltage romance in “Less Than Ivin.”
Adelaide theatres have been waking up
for Easter. The “Goody” pantomime is
promised for the Royal. The Tivoli gives
an Andersonian adaptation of Zola’s sermon
on drink, with Roy Redgrave acting power-
fully as the English hero, though the French
atmosphere is not quite effaced by the adap-
tor. The Majestic puts on a bright variety
bill, in which Eve Ivelland and Maude Court-
ney and a baby elephant do good work. In
pictures, the old “Bells” of Irving’s day is
powerfully acted by Frank Keenan at
West’s, the Royal has a delightfully savage
rendering of Robinson Crusoe and his island,
and Dorothy Dalton and Vivian Martin keep
things lively at Wondergranh till the coming
of the old Drury Lane success “Sporting
Life.” The Pav. revives Chaplin’s really
funny military adventures.
Out of 38 applicants chief mechanical-
engineer W. M. Shannon has been appointed
fhird Railway Commissioner of Victoria, at
£1750 p.a., for a term of seven years. A
Victorian by birth, Shannon has spent 38
years in the railway service, which he entered
ns an apprentice.
Father A. Perkins, who has been elected
Provincial Superior of the Missionaries of
the Sacred Heart, is the first Australian to
hold the office. He was, at one time, man-
ager of Brunton's flour-mill, Clyde, and re-
signed to study for the* priesthood at Kens-
ington (Sydney).
There is no doubt about the French appre-
ciation of the Digger. Now that France has
control of affairs in Syria it has offered
Australian Light Horsemen £1 Is. a day,
and everything found, to act as mounted
troopers—three years’ engagement, with
three months’ furlough in England or Aus-
tralia before they put on their new uniform.
A nijmber of Australians have accepted, but
it would take a lot more than a guinea a day
to tempt the majority to stay away from
their own country.
Very wisely. English courts are still loth
to acknowledge the “unwritten law”; but,
if the right sort of person is concerned, they
manage to wriggle their way out somehow.
Colonel Rutherford, tried in London for
killing the Australian, Major Seton. by
pumping lead into him, pleaded eczema: and
there was of course a doctor available to
say that eczema plus the strain of a clearing
station was enough to unhinge any colonel.
Corroborative evidence of the unhinging
was offered in the fact that Rutherford shot
Seton more than was necessary. Verdict:
Guilty but mad, prisoner to be detained—
until he is let out.
In a Victorian case concerning a man;
who had married not wisely but too well it
transpired that he first met the superfluous,
wife at the baths. Another instance of
“some strong swimmer in his bigamy.”
Webster’s efficiency is having some as-
tonishing results. One week recently the
wholesale distributors of The Bulletin in
Queensland received reports of the non-
arrival of no less than 10 country agents’
parcels.
“Jobber”: I mentioned to one of our
motor-drivers one day, in France, that I was
glad to see “Birdy” had an Australian driv-
ing his car. My cobber threw a handspring,
and informed me that the driver was a
Tommy, camouflaged as an Australian. I
wonder if it was true!
“Dial Sight”: After a few weeks of hang-
ing around, a call came from the Repatria-
tion Department to Bill. Rejoining ills;
cobber outside after the interview, the stag-
gered Digger burst /out: “Strike a light I
What d’yer think — the vows have found me
a job!”
After a brief spell in the Federal Govern-
ment’s publicity department, Bert Cook,
formerly of Melbourne Herald and president
of the A.J.A., has accepted a position in the-
Welfare Department of the Broken Hill
Prop. His job will be to get among the.
miners, listen to their grievances, a no, where
possible, have them remedied.
“F.C.”: “P.J.,” giving an exposition of the
policy of the 0.8. L., says that if the workers
refuse to produce any more than they require
for their personal needs the capitalist will
soon cease to own anything. Yes, and if
the farmers (who don’t belong to the 0.8. U.,
as a rule) refuse to produce any more than
they require for their personal fiee'ds, the
O. will also soon cease to own anything
except an unsatisfied appetite.
“Jack” Power, alderman of Paddington
(N.S.W.), and ex-mayor, will probably be
selected by local Labor to fight for the
Assembly seat vacated by Osborne. The
latter beat him by only 18 votes in a poll of
about 1000 last time. Power was one of
the N. S. Wales delegates to the recent A.L.P.
Conference at Perth, and with A. C. Willis
represents IN'. S. Wales on the A.L.P. Federal
Executive. He was'the first secretary of the
industrial section, and joint secretary with
P. C. Evans of the first No-Conscriptioa
campaign.
Died the other Saturday a Melbourne!
identity who had fairly earned his claim to
be the oldest Australian native in Victoria.
Fully 30 years ago Cr. John Wood Fleming,
J.P., began to bid for notoriety on the
ground that he was the earliest Victorian
native. Others argued the point with him,
but J.W.F. (J.P.) talked longest and
loudest, so at last the intensely self-contained
suburb of Brunswick quite made up its mind
that Fleming had been born on the bank of,
the Yarra. in 1837. The old gentleman
identified himself with Brunswick, and en-
joyed the weird distinction of having been
seven times its mayor. N No man could bo
Mayor of Brunswick for one year without/
afterwards showing the effects. The traces
of seven terms were scored on Cr. Fleming’s
character.
Of a busy man who takes the easy chair?
Oapt. Pennefather, Controller of Banahalarxl
Prisons,- has retired. Born in Geneva, at the house
of the British Ambassador, during the riots of 1848,
he had an unusually active career thence onward.
In 1872 he arrived in Queensland as supercargo of
the schooner Caroline, of which he was part owner.
Later, he became master of the craft, and did some
pearl-fishing in Torres Straits. In 1879 the then
Colonial Sec., Arthur Palmer, appointed him to the
command of the surveying steamer Pearl, and he did
a lot of work in the Gulf of Carpentaria, where lie
discovered the river which bears his name, and the
Batavia River. He also surveyed Mourilyan Harbor.
In 1882 he was appointed P.M. at Ingham (Q.) ; in
1888 he was superintendent at St. Helena; and in
1895 he became Controller-General of Prisons. He
has three sons, two of them members of the A.1.F.,
and one chief P.M. in Fiji.
“Henry Horsecollir”: I have not troubled
much whether Maoriland goes “dry” by a
bare majority, or by a majority with a rag
round its middle, or whether it keeps “wet.”
But if it goes dry, and sacrifices the customs
and excise revenue from liquor, a sum of
£4,500,000 is to be paid as compensation to
brewers, hotel employees, etc. I would like
to know if that will be paid out of revenue,
or be charged to loans and the bill left to
posterity, so that posterity will not only lose
the drink revenue, but will have to pay for
the old . man’s self-righteousness. I haven't
seen this matter explained, but I wish 'to
record my opinion that credit or tick
Pharisees are the meanest Pharisees there
are. Long ago Tasmania had a small spasm
of reform. It decided that a State church
was an antiquated piece of bigotry which
should never have been imported, so ii shut
the thing up and compensated the dis-
charged clergy out of loans. The Speck had
at least the excuse that if posterity- had to
pay interest on the loan it saved the parson’s
wages. But to pay interest on a loan raised
for the destruction of revenue is the limit.


CAN SHE HOLD THEM?
DEATH: “On again, my faithful hounds!”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms •
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing- Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HAEE, AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. A SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent). . _
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
A. W. LEWIS (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
44
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.'
SO LF- . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI ca. SON LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramwav Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE! UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL..
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commonwealth Bank: of Aus-
tralia :
Loss. Deficit.
Dee., 1912 . .’ £14,606 £14,606
June, 1913 . . 32,030 46,636
Profit.
Dec., 1913 . . 1,547 45,089
June, 1914 . . 8,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 . . 13,429 23,567
Reserves
June, 1915 .. 25,789 2,222
Dec., 1915 . . 50,949 53.171
June, 1916 . . 93,898 147,069
Dec., 1916 .. 153,072 300,141
June, 1917 .. 226,151 526,292
Dec., 1917 . . 232,659 758,951
June, 1918 .. 317,075 1,076,026
Dec., 1918 .. 458,271 1,534,297
What a .record ! The Commonwealth Bank
Act was assented to in December, 1911; and
a year later the institution opened for
general business and had savings-bank de-
partments in all States. Six years more and
the profit for one half-year amounts to
£458,271, while visible reserves of over a
million and a half have been accumulated—
on no capital at all!, Such figures, and
these which follow, have been made possible
only by the war: —
Liabilities.
Dec., ’l3. Dec.,’l7. Dec.,’lB.
Deposits, etc.
(ordinary) . . £2,822,406 £32,490,099 £52,279,018
Deposits (savings) 3,732,819 13,748,274 16,125,050
Assets.
Coin and money at
short call . . 3,538,510 22,767,109 20,275,557
C ommon wealth
notes. . . . 38,621 5,264,325 15,761,256
Public securities 1,929,095 12,926,042 15,747,293
Advances . . 967,820 5,699,057 17,857,798
Premises . . 36,088 340,790 306,462
The financing of wheat, wool, metals and so
on, the flotation and management of War
Loans, the control of the heavy Federal
note-issue and of silver currency, have all
helped to Dring in profit. Instead of dealing
with only a fsw millions, as would have
been the case if there had been no war,
hundreds of millions have gone through'the
vaults.
As conditions become normal again some
of the figures will shrink. But apart from
the present inflation of the balance-sheet by
Government operations, there has been a
big, steady growth of ordinary business. The
Commonwealth Bank will continue to handle
the accounts of the Federal Government; it
is also banker now for the State Govern-
ments of Westralia, South Aus. and Tas-
mania, and manages stock and loans for
the last two. No indication is given of the
volume of its ordinary business, but the
growth of advances (including a lot of War
Loan assistance to customers) suggests rapid
expansion. Meantime since 1913 the
deposits in the Savings branch have in-
creased more than fourfold.
Except that the Commonwealth Bank has
had a steadying influence on the> operations
of the Associated banks, and has no doubt
deprived them of a few dainty pickings, the
latter have not been seriously affected by the
growth of the State-owned conceim.
Though it is no party to Associated agree-
ments, it has not cut exchange rates or
otherwise disturbed the old order. There has
been some talk of substantial “concessions”
having been granted here and there; but
probably they have been baits to land big
fish. On the other hand, the interest rates
on Commonwealth Bank deposits are 4 p.c.
lower than offering in the private concerns.
But some of the bank’s work for the Federal
Government has been done at a very cheap
rate. The £190,000.000 or so of War Loans
were floated and are being managed until
maturitv at a cost of about 4s. (id. p.c.
—less than one-tenth the average cost of
merely raising State loans in London prior
to the war. Some of its operations have
probably shown a loss. Branches and
agencies have followed the' Australian troops
almost everywhere, while every Australian
warship has had its savings-bank agency.
Though no charges have been made for
transferring accounts, etc., soldier-deposi-
tors have had interest at 3 p.c. Also, all
cable remittances to soldiers have been for-
warded free of exchange.
The Commonwealth Bank Act made a
million of Treasury funds available as capi-
tal. But all Governor Miller required was
an advance of £lO,OOO to meet preliminary
exes., and this was quickly repaid. Thus, as
remarked above, the bank has been got to its
present position without the aid of a penny
of capital. So far. £1,534,297 of visible
reserves have been accumulated, equally
divided between an ordinary reserve fund to
be used to meet possible trouble, and a re-
demption fund to repay any Treasury
advances, or to purchase debentures or stock
issued by the bank (the management could
put out up to £10,000,000 of debentures if it
Cared to). Any surplus in excess of
Treasury advances or stock —and every
penny of the £767,149 at credit of the fund
is thus available —may be utilised for the
redemption of Commonwealth debts.
* * * *
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1910. . £17,633 10p.c.= £5,257 £12,376 £6,402
Pref.
6 p.c. Ord.
1911.. 23,497 £793 10p.c.= 6,510 17,194 23,596
1912.. 24,429 Div. & Bonus 7,615 16,814 40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
distributed, £12,393 •• 28,017
1913.. 28,477 1200 11-lp.c.= 8,847 18,430 46,447
1914.. 23,469 1200 10 „ „ 7,998 14,271 60,718
Transferred to capital £40,000 .. 20,718
■ 1915.. 20,368 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,168 27,886
1916.. 20,394 1200 10 „ ~12,000 7,194 35,080
1917.. 30,465 1200 11-} „ ~13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20,000 _. . 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831
This co. has made a fine-art of time-payment
business. Its profits are derived from four
sources: (1) Profits from its own house-
furnishing trade (probably mostly t.-p.) ;
(2) interest on “cash-orders” granted to
‘customers to enable them to pay “cash” in
various other shops; (3) discounts from
retailers on whom the cash-orders are made
payable; and (4) income from investments.
The Inter-State Commission turned the lime-
light on the t.-p. business generally last year,
and some very unpleasant evidence was
forthcoming about the interest charges made
by many traders. So far as Gordon’s is
concerned, no doubt its business is as clean
as any handling t.-p. stuff. Still it is ques-
tionable whether its rapid expansion is
something to be proud of. To begin with,
concerns like this do. not always encourage
thrift; the system inclines many people to
spend beyond their means. But for people
who cannot hold a few stiillings each week
until they accumulate sufficient to buy
clothes and sticks, the t.-p. system has its
advantages; though customers pay heavily
for giving the co. the privilege of financing
them. Take the cash-order business. Gor-
don’s gives 20 weeks’ accommodation for
amounts up to £5 (repayable in 20 weeaiy
instalments) and collects Is. in the £ as
interest and commission to begin witn.
Even if the co. did not get back a penny of
its advance until the end of the live months,
the customer would be paying interest at
the rate of 13 p.c. n.a. But since the prin-
cipal is being reduced every week, in the case
of prompt repayment the co. is earning 25
p.c. p.a. on its advances. Allowing for a
considerable proportion of delayed instal-
ments, it is safe to assume that the co.’s
advances are oringing in (gross) at least
20 p.c. Bad debts are surprisingly few; a
year ago the co. had a contingency reserve
renresenting over 9 p.c. of its book debts, but
this has been transferred with other reserves
to canital. Besides this 20 p.c. in advances
the co. is also getting its discount cut from
the firms handling its cash-orders. How
much is earned in this way The Bulletin
does not know, but apparently 10 p.c. is
about the allowance. In some cases cash-
order concerns have been able to squeeze 15
p.c. from retailers.
Though the handling of these small orders
necessitates the employment oi a large staff,
it is not surprising to find that Gordon’s is
making very fat profits. The figures given
above are not those shown by the co., addi-
tions to reserves being made in this way:—
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Dec., Account). Reserves.
1910 £12,924 £4,709
1911 14,996 8,501
1912 15,830 8,599
1913 15,850 12,627
1914 15,141 8,328
1915 15,111 5,257
1916 15,133 5,261
1917 15,895 14.571
1918 . . . . • • 22,644 7,542
After payment of a 20 p.c. bonus five years
ago, paid ordinary capital stood at £BO,OOO.
No new money has been got in since, though a
further £60.000 of accumulated reserves have
been capitalised. So on the sweetened capi-
tal of five years ago the present dividend
represents a return of 26£ p.c. Some politi-
cians are asking whether it is a fair thing
that a co. which is financing poorer people
who cannot find the ready cash to buy
necessities (though there is a proportion of
clients which utilises the system to buy
gauds) should be allowed to make such pro-
fits. Whether it will be permitted to go
on doing so is one of the risks the investor
in this co. takes. Another is that many
retailers expressed hostility towards the
cash-order system before the Inter-State Com-
missioner, and pointed out that if the busi-
ness extended widely prices would have to
be lifted to make up for the 10 to 15 p.c.
cut the financing firms took. Either that,
or the cos. would have to lower their dis-
count rates, or as a further alternative drop
the system altogether. So, lucrative though
the business now is, the future is not without
its doubts.
The balance-sheet says very little —one
line for sundry debtors and everything else
lumped together
Properties, Properties,
Stock, Fit- Sundry Stock, Fit- Sundry
Dec., tings, etc. Debtors. Dec., tings, etc. Debtors.
1910. . £53,782 £68,402 ) 1915.. £110,576 £89.085
1912.. 80,995 103,491 1916.. 130,207 79,215
1913.. 75,999 101,222 1917.. 138,609 82,641
1914.. 88,805 99,618 I 1918.. 148,512 87,491
At Dec. 31 the co. owed £24,922. The
£148,512 is made up of leaseholds, War
Loan, debentures, mortgages, shares in other
cos., cash, deposits, stock, fittings, plant, etc.
—which is about as miscellaneous a collec-
tion as this paper knows of.
* * * *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Added to Re-
Dpc., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1905. . £19,605 5 p.c. =£14,600 £5005 £14,154
1906.. 21,801 5 „„ 14,600 7201 21,355
3907.. 19,561 5 „„ 14,600 4961 26,316
Loss.
1908.. 8,810 4 1-6 „ 12,167 5,333
Profit.
1909.. 12,069 3k „ „ 9,733 2336 7,669
1910.. 9,696 3* „ „ 9,733 7,632
1911.. 7,444 3i „ „ 9,733 5,343
1912.. 10,461 3( „ „ 9,733 728 6,071
1913.. 18,292 63,,,, 19,466 4,897
1114.. 17,631 34 „ „ 9,733 7928 12,825
1915.. 14,509 6<S „ „ 19,466 7,928
1916.. 1,839 3|„„ 9,733 34
1917.. 19,798 6j „ „ 19,406 332 366
1918.. 24,157 8J „ „ 24,334 —■ 189
That is better than the co. has done for 20
years. If the table were extended back to
the ’eighties it would he a very bumpy affair.
In 1808, for instance, there was a net profit
of £39,624; the following year a. loss of
£38,092. For 10 years to 1902 share-
holders got altogether only 5 p.c. in divs.,
and 6 p.c. is the best they have ever got in
any one year. Though since 1912 35 p.c.
has been distributed, shareholders have been
asked to regard 134 p.c. (Bs. per share) as
a return of capital. Three shillings of the
past year’s ss. divs. goes that way. Five
years back the directors announced that
when these “bonuses” amounted to 10s. they
intend writing down capital to that extent.
The Squatting Investment was formed in
Melbourne in ISS2 to take up extensive
leases, including the Thurulgoona and Bun-
daleer stations, in far south-western Queens-
land. This shows how the present-day bal-
ance-sheet figures compare with those of 30
years ago, since when no new capital has
been got in :
1888. 1908. 1917. 1918.
Labilities ..£210.504 £56,315 £652 #1.2*5
Properties } QS „ J 245,327 216,968 214,269
lum, stock j I 75,216 38,430 49,i09
Wool .. . . 38,922 17,509 17,339 9,786
Plant, etc. . . 14,058 19,282 5,852 6,134
Cash, etc. . . 1,705 1,186 29,035 33,528
To earn dividends for £292,005 of capital
was a formidablf task, especially as the co.
leases a corner of the map where the seasons
play all sorts of tricks. But it is country
with wonderful recuperative powers after a
drought. The three years after 1913 was
a very bad time; since then things have
brightened again. At Dec. 31, 1913, there
were 107,791 sheep on the properties: three
years later the figures had been reduced to
49,705; but at the end of last year had
recovered to 82,29 i. The 1913 clip gave
2317 bales; last year’s, 1485 bales. But
owing to enhanced prices there was a much
larger profit. Already some big slices of
country have slipped out of the co.’s hands,
and the leases of the remaining 1018 sq.
miles will expire in about 16 years. Capital
now stands at £292,005—97,335 shares paid
to £3. Since 1912 Bs. per share has been
returned; and that leaves £2 12s. per share
to be made good. The surplus of liquid
assets at Dec. 31 was £70,780 —equal to just
over another 15s. 6d. per share. So pre-
suming that the co. goes out of the business
when the leases expire—though of course
there may be a renewal—there is £1 16s. 6d.
per share to be still made good in 16 years. If
nothing was then received for improvements,
profits would have to average at least
£ll,lOO per annum to guarantee the return
of the shareholders’ money. With ordinary
luck this should be fairly easy; with a run
of good seasons and a continuance of high
prices for wool there should also be a margin
for divs. But no matter how the prospect
is viewed there is no dazzle. Nobody out-
side present shareholders is much interested
in the concern, but the last time a buyer put
in a public appearance 275. 3d. was the
offer for shares which were virtually paid
to £2 15s. The concern looks Something
better than a long-shot at the price; but it
illustrates the gloom that hangs over this
“investment” co.
Kemptiiorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. ten. Off. serves, serves.
190 S. .£17,816 7 p.c.= £14,000 £1 600 £2210 £36,730
1909.. 16,962 7 „ „ 14,000 1962 38,692
1910.. 16,707 7 „ „ 14,000 1336 1371 40,063
1911.. 18,225 7 „ „ 14,000 1500 2725 42,788
19,191 7 „ „ 15,515 .1500 2176 44,964
- I Premiums on shares issued .. 3750 48,714
101 o( 21,544 7 p.c. = 16,083 :2500 2961 51,675
( Premiums ou new shares .. 4375 56,050
1914.. 14,221 7 p.c.= 17,453 1275 51,543
1915.. 23,459 7 „ ~18,541 1500 3418 64,961
1916.. 24,730 7 „ „ 18,550 6180 61,141
1917.. 25,575 8 „ ~ 21,200 4375 65,516
1918.. 30,329 8 ~ „ 22,120 5000 3209 68,725
1919.. 33,520 8 „ ~ 23,917 9603 78,328
The Bulletin won’t guarantee that £33,520
is the full measure of the net profits for the
past year. Everything depjends on what has
been clipped off for depreciation and to pro-
vide for contingencies, and ns these allow-
ances are bundled un with general expenses
no clue is given to the size, of the appropri-
ations. However, it is clear from the dis-
closed figures that the oldl-established con-
cern has been having a great time, and in
the past 12 mouths probably the ’flu didn’t
do it any harm. Gross profits have bounded
ahead in great, style; so also have exes, (in-
cluding the depreciation and contingencies
allowances mentioned above) :
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1909 .. £52,878 £36,026
1914 .. 66,869 42,334
1916 .. 67,094 43,635
1916 . . 74,934 50,204
1917 .. 93,353 67,777
1918 .. 107,237 77,571
1919 .. 120,532 87,011
Capital is now half as much again as it was
10 years ago; and gross and net profits
have doubled. The dividend rate has aver-
aged almost n p.c. during that period, and
except in 1914, when a fire burnt holes in
profits, there has always been a comfortable
surplus. A visible £31,500 has been laid
by since 1909, apart from £8125 received
from premiums on shares.
That the past five years have been con-
siderably more profitable than the previous
five is shown in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1909. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Capital . . £200,000 £263,656 £296,155 £299,925
Liabilities . . 94,388 54,082 47,241 84,692
Stock.. .. 181,347 186,693 160,897 177,113
Factories, etc. 103,005 101,489 149,528 141.691
Book debts .. 56,830 69,342 85,688 85,795
Cash .. . . 22,120 33,854 71,843
Between 1909 and 1914 £63,656 of new capi-
tal was got in, while liabilities decreased
by £40,306 and £8125 was captured in share
premiums. Total increase, £31,475. Mean-
time about £40,000 was tacked on to more
or less liquid assets, while there was a
small shrinkage in the book value of fixed
assets. The improvement over the five
years was about £7OOO. Since 1914 capital
has increased by £36,269, and liabilities by
£30,610, together £66,879. Except for £7OO
there are cash and book debts to represent
this increase. Meantime a further £40,200-
odd has gone into fixed assets. The book
value of stock has, however, shrunk by
£9580. The improvement during the past
five years has thus been close upon £30,000.
A very watchful eye has been kept on
stocks. The 00. was caught badly once be-
fore, when a sudden reduction of duty on
imported drugs wiped between £BOOO and
£9OOO off the book value on the shelves.
During the past few years the management
has been protecting purchases at war-
inflated prices with a special reserve, the
stocks being included in the accounts “less
reserves.” If everything works out right,
later on there may be something to shake
out of the stocking.
* * * *
Finney, Isles & Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane:—
To
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1909. . £13,898 6 p.c. = £3,983 £9,915 £14,280
1910.. 11,694 6 „ 4,037 7,657 21,937
1911.. 19,863 8 „ „ 6,815 13,048 34,985
Premiums on new shares. . 4,062 39,047
1912.. 16,856 8 p.c. = 13,057 3,799 42,846
1913.. 14,617 8 ~,, 12,861' 1,756 44,602
1914.. 20,475 8 „ „ 12,944 7,531 52,133
1915.. 17,744 S „ „ 13,019 4,725 56,858
Jan.,
1916.. 9.269 8 „„ 6,547 2,722 59,580
Transferred to capital, £31,299 .. 28,281
Assets written down, £3037 . . 25,244
1917.. 21014 8 p.c. = 14,923 6,091 31,335
Premiums on new shares. . 1,752 33,087
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43,32-5
1919.. 29,833 8 „„ 17,977 11,856 55,181
This co. is putting on weight rapidly. Note
the growth of gross profits: 1914, £109.104;
1917. £114,364; 1918, £134,312; 1919,
£155.027. But the extra profit has not been
got by bumping up prices unreasonably.
Since 1914 over £70,000 more shareholders’
funds have been put into the business, and
the present proportion of net profits to capi-
tal and reserves is very little more than it
was five years ago. But the expansion of
business and consequent stock requirements
have outpaced the growth of funds. To keep
the shelves fully charged takes much more
money than it did five years ago, and this
co.’s management, satisfied that there is


The British Westinghouse Electric and MTg. Co., Ltd.
T ram way Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
fstmahougf
Manchester
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building. 84, William Street, Melbourne.
— —__ —- J-
Works: Trafford Park, Manchester, England,
There are many mornings when a file is unneces-
sary, but when there is just enough chill in the air
to make you uncomfortable while dressing. Why run
a risk of catching cold when the turn of a switch,
connected to a G. E. Radiator, will send a warm, sun-
shiny glow through the room? We have in stock
G. K. Luminous liadiators in various sizes and vat-
terns. Let. us demonstrate to you the value of this
modern electric comfort. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alunnno-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and quite
harmless. Used by leading Water Supply Boards
throughout Australia. William- Adams & Co., Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Col-
lins Street. Adelaide: 96. Currie Street. Brisbane:
Corner Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King
Street. — Advt. I 3
* * . * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
-plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Abvt. [2
* * * *
Corroded pipes a thing of the past. Pioneer
Wood Pipe has made all the difference to the
engineer. He can now plan a permanent system by
specifying Pioneer Wood Pipe, which remains un-
changinelv efficient throughout an unlimited length
of service. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office, Burns Bay, Lane Cove). P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorney, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.:— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
Avoid painting a new article and you will
probably be able to put off the ultimate painting day
for years; and then it will only be a water paint
to freshen up your ceilings and walls. You can
only avoid this primary Expense by using the right
materials, viz., Lottoid Snow-white Plaster Sheets
for ceilings and inside walls, and Spriggs’ Asbestolite
for your exterior walls. Write for our price lists
B, which will also give you information re our
roofing materials —3-ply veneers, etc. Spriggs’
Asbestolite Company, 338 Pitt Street (near Danks’).
—Advt.
The manufacture of '‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, 'both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific islands and Hutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares witli any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdney.—•
A DVT.
* * * »
Road-graders for building good roads, for making
and grading earth roads, cleaning out water tables,
making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large stocks of the
best procurable and most up-to-date machines.
Several different sizes stocked to be worked by two,
four or eight horses or traction-engine power. Cata-
logues and full particulars upon application. Arthur
Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Queensland inquiries: The Australian Machinery C'o.,
Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
■» * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances. Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. < all or write for particulars. H. B. Selbv & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
S'treet, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Rcmlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
■ AAEBOANTO
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,497
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 2910.
V-118 80010%
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. 11. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting
Dynamite
Gelatine
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
going to be no slump in prices for some time
to come, has also gone in for extensive for-
\yard-bjiying. One result has been that
Finney’s has been “selling many lines at con-
siderably less than the prices they would
have to pay to-day at the Manchester mills.”
And this shows the effect on the balance-
sheet :—• v
1905. 1910. 1915. 191 S. 1919.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital . . 29,462 67,293 155,293 213,114 214,314
Debt to
Finney’s .. 42,704 27,458
Other liabili-
ties ~60,962 133,795 114,557 114,051 132,361
Stock ..60,878 89,119 123,408 165,388 191,023
Ileal property 7,665 84,332 112,018 124.720 124,968
Hook debts 25,650 45,122 70,333 74,531 83,347
Other assets 25,648 34,649 29,971 14,802 11.520
To finance stocks the eo. is now leaning on
tiie _ bank for £22,817. Of the remaining
liabilities £39,000 represents 5 p.c. intermin-
able debentures, £30.793 mortgages on pro-
perties (reduced by £11,262 in five years),
and the rest trade accounts.
The present co. took over the old proprie-
tary business nearly 15 years ago, and a
comparison of the figures above shows how
great the expansion has been since the end
of the co.’s first year. Perhaps the most
striking feature is the amount now invested
in premises—equal to over 58 p.c. of the
paid capital. That the co. can show a
net profit equal to 14 p.c. on capital is due
solely to the restricting of the dividend rate
in the past, thus enabling the management
to sweep away all goodwill items and accu-
mulate over £86,000 of reserves Four years
ago £3.1,299 of these reserves were capital-
ised, so the present 8 p.c. div. is really
better than it looks. The co. is now in a
very comfortable position. Apart from the
interminable debentures and mortgages, it
owes £56,569, and has over £274,000 in more
or less liquid assets. After meeting all lia-
bilities each £1 share (one-sixth of which, in
most cases, represents bonus additions four
years ago) is backed by substantial-looking
assets with a book value of almost 265.
* * * • *
For many years The Bulletin has been
impressing on the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment the necessity for legislation controlling
the operations of life offices. Nothing has
been done, the politicians failing to under-
stand that the man who insures his life in
the interests of his family deserves a pro-
tection equal to that afforded the thrifty who
put their money into the savings banks.
City Mutual chairman George Crowley again
stated the case vigorously to his policy-
holders the other day :
There is no law in Australia to prevent a life office
valuing its liabilities at any rate of interest it likes.
But there should be a law, and a strict law, too, to
prevent this. In the City Mutual Life, if the
directors had valued the liabilities to the policy-
holders as if the rate that could be earned in future
was 5 per cent, (and Commonwealth Government
securities are producing a rate higher than that at
present), the surplus that would be shown as at
December 31 last, instead of being £65,000, would
have been just on £200,000. Over and over again
during the past 18 years the attention of
the Federal authorities has been drawn to
the grave necessity of embodying in legisla-
tion some measure of protection to the assuring
public. The matter has been talked of, and pro-
mises held out over and over again, but nothing so
far has materialised. It seems useless either to
protest or to anpeal. Both are unavailing. Some
day there will be a rude awakenings and then we
shall, no doubt, have panic legislation.
The City Mutual says it “has no desire to
profiteer on its policies.” Having made a
nice wad out of the “Victory” policies issued
to soldiers who didn't arrive in time to get
amongst the flying ironmongery, the Society
has now got to work counting up its war
losses. If the profit made out of these
Victory policies more than, counterbalances
the losses incurred by claims on policies
issued prior to the war, and on which there
was no war-loading, the Federal Treasurer
is to be asked to nominate a charity which
will call and collect the surplus.
The Western Australian Insurance Co.,
which began in humble circumstances a
couple of years before the war and has since
shown sensational figures as a result of its
plunge into marine business, has decided
either that Perth is too small to hold it, or
that the West is too isolated. Anyhow, the
“chief office for Australasia” has been trans-
ferred to Collins-street. Melbourne.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta, after piling up cop-
per for three months at a cost of about £9O
per ton, while the best price offering has
been only about £7O, has cried enough, and
production ceased on Tuesday. The State
< 'ahinet has had the matter under considera-
tion. hut apparently it has arrived at a dead-
end .in the same way as the N. S. Wales
Government. Wallaroo and Moonta will
continue to keep the mines in good order,
and some money is to be spent on develop-
ment.
* » * *
Three Svdney directors <if B. 11. Junction
—J. G. North, Jas. Bembrick and W. A.
Freeman—have resigned from the Board, an
Adelaide syndicate and its friends having
acquired a controlling interest in the co. To
announce their retirement they issue a cir-
cular, which also makes a defence of their
management. Everything was all right till
misadventures came:
In addition to bad recoveries of the new mill,
several face's of ore in our stopes became poorer....
and so on. The mistake the directors made
was in trusting the mine further than they
could see it. Nobody who really knew it
would have done so.
* * * *
When the Prattens and Malcolm Newman
and their following broke away from the
Freemans and the Austral Malay they took
the Larut (F.M.S.), paying £23,500 for the
show. The co. started with 17,500 fully-
paids and 32,500 contribs., but the £50.000
got in when the contribs. had paid their final
call did not meet all requirements. The war
upset several calculations. For a start the
1014 price of tin had slumped about £OO per
ton, while the cost of getting Ruwolt’s mel-
bourne-made dredge into action exceeded
anticipations, and the addition of tin-
saving appliances swallowed a lot of cash.
However, no new shares were issued
(nominal capital was £75,000), and the
Prattens financed the extra expenditure. By
the time the machinery began to tear into
the ground, the price of tin had started to
soar; and recoveries have considerably ex-
ceeded the figures indicated by close boring.
So shareholders haye been having a gorgeous
time; since April, 1917, they have had 10s.
od. per share in divs. For the 12 months
to Doc. 31 last the dredge dug 991,000 cub.
yds. for 402| tons tin-oxide worth £65,709.
This works out at .911 b. ground, giving 15.9 d.
per yd., and as costs took sd. there was a
working profit of 10.9 d. Every hour the
plant was at work last year it tore out a
profit of £6 Bs. 9d. This result was very
good, seeing that most of the ground handled
was on an old Chinese pitch which contained
a lot of sandy tails, and where the values
remaining were less than usually found in
“worked out” country. Everything has gone,
splendidly so far, and though shareholders
have only to see another 3s. 6d. to get their
capital back, with new ground recently
acquired there are still 13 million cub. yds.
of what is regarded as profitable stuff ahead
of the dredge. Two years ago liabilities
exceeded liquid assets by £7000; at Dec. 31
there was a surplus of £Bl5O. Meantime
the co. has paid the divs. and acquired a
further 35 acres of average ground at a cost
of £5OOO, and is now reaching out after a
further 40 acres. Of the liquid assets,
£16,250 represents Larut's holding in the
Kota.
* * * *
Last fortnight Bendigo Amalgamated bat-
teries got through 4000-odd tons for*ll4Soz.,
but 6280 z. came from the plates. The
average reads better than that of the previous
clean-up. notwithstanding the upset through
holidays and the ’flu. Work on the rich
portion of the west leg of the saddle at the
Constellation has been stopped, but directly
a start will be made on the shoot again, and
Moline’s star will be on the rise. The big
Carlisle formations have not been returning
so well as of old, but here, too, as the stopes
go higher the better-grade material will show
up once more. The formations in this mine
run to over 60ft. in width, so a little pep-
pering of gold soon tells. Great Northern
is another mine that helps to keep the whistles
blowing. Tributors are being encouraged in
various of the shows, as the co. gets pros-
pecting done cheaply that way, besides net-
tin? profits if the parties hit good stone, as
they do from time to time. Both Moline
and Dyason are indefatigable triers after
fresh makes. The Sea shaft is being deep-
ened to get a new reef: at Koch’s Pioneer
they are going for the Unity reef; drilling
is going on in selected spots; and both the
Red, White and Blue and the Derby lines
are being tested. Still, the good strike
needed to top off that of the Constellation
refuses to show up.
* # * *
New Golden Fleece. Bendigo, seems to
have come a bit of a cropper at almost the
first fence. For a couple of months decent-
grade dirt went to the battery, whereupon
the old Pall Mill whispering that the claim
was a ripper brought in the usual moths.
But the pace was too fast for work in the
stopes, so conditions now compel a stopping
of yields for the time being. There is
plenty of stone in the mine, but most of it
doesn’t run enough gold to even gild the
horns of the co., so that the management has
ever to be warning the gentle holder that
he must not take the bit in his teeth because
of th<* spasmodic runs at the battery on one
of the short patches in the mine.
* * * #
On Juue 30 last Mt. Elliott (Q.) owed
£113,694. and apart from mines and equip-
ment had assets valued at £201.072; but of
the latter amount £71.307 was locked up in
shares in Dohbin and Cloncurry Mines,
Ltd., and another £20,000 in the Mt. Kembla
refinery. It was a bad year for Corbould's
co.; after providing £19,486 for depreciation
there was a loss of £56,890, an average of
about 21s. on every ton of ore smelted, not-
withstanding the high prices ruling during
the period. But the co. didn’t have a fail-
run. It having become necessary, in order
to prolong the life of the field, to handle
lower-grade ore, the plant was remodelled.
The furnace was enlarged from 14ft. to 28ft.
in length. This didn’t win the appro-
val of the men employed, and, after a lot
of trouble, Corbould decided to meet the
objections bv reducing the length of the
furnace to 18ft. This meant closing down
from October to January; and after that
there were floods and more labor troubles.
Corbould in his report permits himself to do
a little moralising
To read the reports of the labor troubles in this
district would leave the impression that the men
are a bad lot, but the surprising thing is that 80 p.c.
are fine men. A minority section appears to control
matters. There is no need for anxiety about these
men that are out to retard—they will have their day
and perhaps cripple industries for a short time, but
to their policy there is only one ending, and 1 have
confidence that the bulk of the men will take action
to protect the country and themselves.
In spite of everything. Corbould believes
it has been “demonstrated beyond doubt that
the medium-grade ores are payable.”
But the real question is—payable at what
price? That hasn’t been answered yet. The
future lies as much in a reduction of costs
as in a good market for the metal. Gen-
erally speaking, only the rich ore has been
worked. “You have magnificent bodies of
low-grade ore,” says Strick, the mine super-
intendent, “but they must be operated as
such. Any other method will very soon
cripple these valuable properties.” Of rich
ores (10 p.c.) there are in sight and partly
developed in Elliott and Mt. Oxide 310,000
tons, nearly all of it in the Oxide. Of
poorer ores, from 2£ p.c. to 5 p.c., .there are
over 1,500,000 tons, and the probability of a
great deal more. Until ore of between 3
and 4 p.c. can be handled “your group,” says
Strick, “cannot claim to be established as a
stable and lasting industry.” If ever there
was a business in connection with which the
recommendations of the Whitley Committee
in England ought be adopted it is this.
The owners here have nothing whatever to
hide. In that respect they are not like
some coal-owners. The future depends
almost wholly upon the co-operation of the
workmen. If they want the mines to turn
out the tens of thousands of tons of contained
copper and get their whack of the proceeds,
it can be clone. It is merely a matter of
arrangement with the co.
The latest four-weekly return from Mount
Morgan (488 tons fine copper and 82910 z.
gold) shows gold values worth £7l per ton
of copper. The last 495 tons of blister sent
to the refinery in N. S. Wales contained on
the average over 16oz. gold per ton of blister,
and in ordinary times from lOoz. to 12oz.
is considered good. It seems certain that
the furnace has been fed with some unusually
rich ore. The average shareholder knows
nothing about the rich spots, and is in the
dark as to how long Morgan can enrich its
blister with 16oz. of gold.
Tongkah Harbor has agreed to take over
the Bang Tao property of 256 acres, about
20 miles from Tongkah. Others in want of
a mine have been chasing the Avily Chinese
who hold the ground, but the strength of
the Ashbolt-.Tones crowd proved too much
for them. Lewis, who did the first boring
at the Kampong Kamunting. areas, has done
the same Avork at the Bang show, and Ash-
holt is so satisfied with Lewis’s skill that
he accepts his results. It must be at least lb.
ground, otherwise boAV could Ashbolt avow
that he expects to get at least as much as
the average uoav being earned by his fleet
of dredges? The terms of sale give the
vendors 15 p.e. of the gross output as
royalty. That, added to the Siamese State
grab, means a very big cut out of receipts,
and is a further testimony that the patch
is rich. Ashbolt confides that the Tongkah
ground reserved for the Nos. 2 and 3 dredges
inshore is pretty well worked out, as he has
had four plants at Avork there. With stores
unprocurable it was not safe to keep the
dredges knocking about in the stormy Avaters
of Puket Sound.
* •* * *
Edna May Consolidated Extended, West-
onia (W.A.). has applied for a £ for £
subsidy in order to “adequately and promptly
crosscut and prospect” the supposed con-
tinuation easterly of the Edna May ore-
channel. The co. may get what it is asking
for, but its chances of finding payable gold
are too small to be visible to the naked eye.
* * * *
Two long-distance shows linked up the
other day when Bell’s and Bell’s Extended
shareholders met in Melbourne. These
Northern Territory tin mines norv become
Bell’s United, Avith a nominal capital of
£35.000 in £1 shares. Each of the old shows
gets 9500 fully-paids in the new eo., and
9510 contribs. are to be offered to the public.


“’STRUTH! IS THIS ME?”


raUk&iNs?
i-srSwFyl
PERTH AMD LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lewt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Deaf?
Without good hearing you are greatly handi-
capped, and the fact is brought home to vou
every day. Why remain deaf? The
Acousticon
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable you to hear.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who is using
his “Acousticon” at the Peace Conference.
Write for 10 Days’ Free Trial. No deposit,
no obligation. Convince yourself at our
expense, and DON’T STAY DEAF! New stocks
arrived.
Lamson
Storei
Service
Co,
102 Daking House, SYDNEY
Olderfteet, Collins St.,MELB
N.Z. :
IV.A. :
John Procter, ZOO High St.. Christc’h.
H. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
THE
Hotel Sydney
(SYDNEY)
Is one of the largest, most modern
and best equipped in Australia.
It is situated opposite the Railway Station
and is centra] to everywhere.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 400 GUESTS.
Quiet, Cool and Comfortable.
Hot and Cold Water, Day and Night, in every
Bedroom.
Half an acre of Glorious Roof
Garden.
Tariff from 12/6 per day.
Have you Lunched or Dined at the “Sydney’’?
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
IF FOOD DISAGREES DRINK HOT
WATER.
When food lies like lead in the stomach
and you have that uncomfortable, distended
feeling, it is because of insufficient blood-
supply to the stomach, combined with acid
and food fermentation. In such cases ti>
the plan now followed in many hospitals and
advised by eminent specialists of taking nai
a teaspoonful of bisurated magnesia in nan
a glass of water as hot as you can comtor -
ably drink it. The hot water draws the
blood to the stomach, and the bisurated mag-
nesia, as any physician or chemist can te
you, instantlv neutralises the acid and stoi •
the food fermentation. Try this simple plan
and you will be astonished at the immediate
feeling of relief and comfort that alvaj-
follows the restoration of the normal proces
of digestion. Soldiers at the front and travel-
lers who are frequently obliged to take ‘ .
meals poorly prepared should always ta
two or three five-grain tablets of l nsur .._
magnesia after meals to prevent feme
tion and neutralise the acid.— Ad\t.
THE FLAG COMES DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Admiral of the Fleet Sir David Beatty to-day,
hauled down his flag as Commander-in-Chief of the
Grand Fleet. The occasion was the formal dispersal
•of the Grand Fleet.”— Cable.
Tlie flag comes down at last. The work is done.
Four years of battling up and down the seas,
Four years at sleepless watch behind the gun,
Lest boastful foes that played at tip-and-run
Should brave an hour the battle and the breeze.
The flags come down at last. The ships divide,
•Squadron by squadron, in their steel-clad pride.
They shall go far and far to east and west,
Guarding the traffic of a thousand ways.
These that have stood the last triumphant test
Shall watch the nations in their peaceful rest
And keep the trust through all the kinder days.
The war-blast over, by the shoal and shore
Their signal stands that war shall be no more.
Ilia flag conies down at last. The mighty fleet
That moved to his command is scattered far.
But honor’s flag is high ; and freemen greet
That streaming emblem in the clamorous street
And on tlie wide sea-ways ’neath sun and star.
In a world’s honor rest the men and man
Who wrought the mightiest deed since time began!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
.John W. Billiatt, the last survivor of the
Stuart expedition, which was the first to cross
the continent from south to north, has fin-
ished his long journey in England. He must
have been 80 or more: it was 58 years ago
that he did the one big thing of his life.
Afterwards he settled down to the prosaic
job of school-teaching, and for years had a
quaint little academy at Glenelg.
Premier Lefroy having failed to satisfy
even his own party in Westralia, H. P.
Colebatch takes up the running. The new
man has had some years in the Leg. Council,
and before that was in the gallery. Start-
ing life as a cub reporter at Broken Hill,
he was in the rush of Barrierites to the
West, afterwards representing a goldfields
paper in Perth. Pie wasn’t subservient
enough at Parliament House in its riotous
days, and an attempt was once made to
shoo him off the premises. For a good
ma ny years past he has been cultivating
Conservative tendencies and a bank balance
on one of the State’s most profitable country
papers.
‘‘Bull-ant” Mclntyre, of Southern Cross
(W.A.), has been in hot water again. About
a month ago he was charged in the Perth
City Court with publishing a series of defa-
matory libels upon John Nicholson, M.L.C.,
of Perth. The hearing was postponed on
account of the bull-ant’s ill-health, his coun-
sel undertaking that no more libels would
be published. But the defendant continued
to sting, so a warrant was issued for his
arrest. Then counsel for the plaintiff came
in and asked that the warrant might be
suspended, the
defendant’s
health being so
precarious that
if he was
brought to
Perth he would
probably arrive
a corpse.
Though the old
battler was too
ill to write he
had been dictat-
ing the venom-
ous copy to his
children.
JUSTICE
HERDMAN.
of Maoriland.
Maldon Robb has followed the lamented
John Arthur, whom lie ran so hard for the
Bendigo seat in the Reps, in 1914. They
had both turned to the law after starting
on another job—Robb had been a Presby-
terian parson. The year before the Ben-
digo election Robb had taken on Frank
Anstey—a hopeless proposition; but he made
a fight of it. ’Flu drove the black camel to
his door. His widow used to be Miss Bill-
ings, the pianist; they had been married
only a couple of years.
E. B. Jones, who on appearances is to be
Victoria’s next Railways chief, is a young
man who has pushed himself ahead by sheer
hard work. When electrification was mooted
he forsook tennis (his only vice) to acquaint
himself with all there was to learn about elec-
tric trains. Though he is not an engineer
there is nobody in Victoria with a more com-
plete comprehension of the scheme, which
may be said to have “made” him. A slight
fair man of about 43 years, he looks just
what he is, a bundle of nervous energy.
These are cold days for kings. Jimmy
Walkaway 1., of Geraldton (W.A.), was re-
cently brought before the Court for “having
refused to obey the commands of the Minis-
ter that he should take up his abode at the
Moora. aboriginal settlement.” The old
Binghi pleaded that his father and grand-
father had been born in the Geraldton dis-
trict and had died there, and he wanted to
be buried with them. A certificate was put
in signed by a local J.P. that Jimmy was the
rightful King of Utakarra (Geraldton), he
being the nephew and only surviving blood-
relation of the late King Gregory of Gerald-
ton, who died in 1865. But the magistrate
wouldn’t budge further than to defer sen-
tence for a month, so that his Majesty might
consult with his Privy Council.
THE GUEST.
THE IMPORTED BOLSHEVIK : “A cove invites
himself to dinner, an’ you give ’im
flamin' sossidges that ain’t fit for a dog
to eat! An' you don’t know how to
cook, either!”
It is alleged that once when John Kidd
bustled into a Cabinet meeting rather late,
E. W. O’Sullivan said good-humoredly : “Here
comes the tail!” Whereupon Kidd replied :
“Yes, and it takes a good tail to keep the
flies off this Ministry.” The other story
about John —he wasn’t exactly a cottage but
he was never more than a two-story man—
was that he lost his seat at Campbelltown
through getting all his able-bodied male con-
stituents into the Sydney police force.
Until he died last week Clifford Love
was Australia’s oldest manufacturer. He
had been in starch and cornflour in Sydney
for 60 years.
Died at his residence, Vaucluse, aged 71,
Robert Fisher, managing director of the
Watson’s Bay and South Shore Ferry Co.,
and grandson of William Charles Went-
worth. He was son of Thomas John Fisher,
barrister-at-law : his mother was Thomasine,
Wentworth’s eldest daughter.
Walter Reynell is dead at Reynella, south
from Adelaide, after a hopeless illness of
some months. His father founded the family
vineyard there, and he carried it on. Also
he was a leading pastoralist, and for some
years in the last century was at the head of
Elder, Smith and Co.’s stock department.
He was a finely-built man, and did not look
anything like his 73 years. His son Carew
was killed, as a colonel, on Gallipoli. The
only remaining son, Rupert, doctor and
Rhodes scholar, has just come back from a
military hospital.
Prendergast, off and on leader of the Vic.
Parliamentary Labor Party, seems to have
been the first Australian politician to bring
up the question of a minimum wage; it
was only for tradesmen, however, and at that
time no more than Is. an hour was asked.
“Prendy” was born in Adelaide in 1854.
and was taken across to the Vic. gold
rushes as a youngster. He served his time
as a compositor on the Pleasant Creek
News, and was one of the “comps” whom
Angus Mackay. of Bendigo, took to Sydney
when he founded the Daily Telegraph.
Colonel Mackenzie, D. 5.0., returned to
Sydney last week. He left in command of
the 19th Battalion, and was on the Penin-
sula till the Evacuation. He went with his
regiment to France, and was with it there,
except for spells in hospital and on leave, till
the Armistice. He is a barrister of some 20
years’ standing. The A.A.G. at the Vic-
toria Barracks —the officer to legal
questions are referred —is Colonel Wallace
Brown. So far as this paper is aware, he
did not go to the war. He is not a lawyer—
his civil job is something in the fruit-farm-
ing line. The legal bungling which has
characterised the Barracks of late, and con-
tinues to be one of its outstanding features,
may not be his fault; but it is reasonable to
assume that if a trained lawyer were in
charge there would be less of it. Meantime
Colonel Mackenzie, with five years’ experi-
ence in handling expeditionaries, and with
half a life-time in the law, gets his discharge.
So the wastage goes on.
Francis Pratt Winter, once a barrister in
Queensland and Fiji, sometime acting-Attor-
ney-General in the latter colony, and first
Chief Justice of New Guinea (1888-1903),
has just died at Armadale (Vic.), aged 71.
Born at Melbourne, he was a son of George
Winter, who came from King’s County (Ire-
land), and married Elizabeth, daughter of
James Cox, of Van Diemen’s Land.
Thomas Mcllwraith was a long way from
the first to try to pull New Guinea inside the
British Empire. In 1793 John Hayes, sail-
ing from Calcutta with the ships Duke and
Duchess of Clarence, on a voyage in which
he explored and named the
Derwent River (Tas.) and
touched at New Caledonia,
put into Dorey Harbor, in
the north of New Guinea,
and founded a little colony,
which hung on for over 18
months. He claimed for
Britain most of the northern
side of New Guinea. He
wanted the East India Co.
to take the thing up, but it
had other fish to fry. Hayes
urged that his colony,
which he called New Albion,
would be very handy as a
port of call for ships bound
from Sydney to China. But
even Hayes was not the first
Englishman to visit Dorey
Harbor. In 1774 Thomas
Forrest, sailing from the
Moluccas in a 10-ton native
boat, put in a couple of months about the
bay and other places on that coast.
“Chasuble”: The magnetism and elec-
tricity of Archbishop Mannix are ex-
traordinary. Even to the distant south-
eastern suburb of Glen Huntly he re-
cently drew thousands of people at the
foundation-laying of St. Anthony’s Church.
Seven > years ago _ there were only 15
.Catholic families in that neighborhood,
but they built an expensive school-church,
and now the well-expanded district enters
upon an expenditure of £4OOO for portion of
a new church which would not disgrace
Collins-street or Bourke-street. Nine hundred
pounds were subscribed on the day; even
the Caulfield jockeys had their bit on St.
Anthony. He is the saint who looks after
them on their rough passage down the
straight.
Colonel Invin, due back from Egypt,
was, before the war, a N. S. Wales South
Coast dairy-farmer. He was one of the
original squadron-leaders of the Ist A.L.H.,
but falling ill on the Peninsula was out of
the squall for a bit. He rejoined the regi-
ment just after Romani, and was shot
through the chest at Rafa. His luck was so
good just then that, to the wonder of the
surgeons, he was back at work within a
few days.
“Mick the Preacher” : Paderewski isn’t the
first musician to haul himself into fame in
the political field. Simon Hiekev, M.E.A.
(N.S.W.), is with him. Some 18 or 20 years
ago Simon was the violinist of Mudgee.
Even such Outback settlements as Stony
Creek and Home Rule never thought of
having a hop unless Simon provided the
music. If nowadays you strike a local per-
former at either of those places and ask the
name of the piece he has been playing, he
will probably inform you that “that’s Simon
Hickey s schottische,” or perhaps it’s “Simon
Hickey’s waltz” ; or his mazurka.
The Marshall Islands, one of the Pacific
group which Germany gobbled and Japan
wants, take their name from John Marshall,
master of the merchant ship Charlotte, one
of the First Fleet. After landing their pas-
sengers at Botany Bay Marshall and
■Thomas Gilbert, of the Scarborough, sailed
early in 1788 for China, and ran into the
Marshall and Gilbert Islands on the way.
Australian bishops have got the restless
spirit’ too. Stretch leaves Newcastle and
Stephen, of Tasmania, has been elected to
his gaiters; and Golding Bird, who used to
be 1 ><#in of Newcastle and would have been
glad of the job that Stephen has got. finds
the decaying Kalgoorlie diocese doesn’t suit
~. ls throat. . Stephen is, like Long of
Bathurst, V ictorian-born and Australian-
trained.
Two Maoriland cities now have women
councillors. Christchurch has one and Auck-
land a couple.
Dan Higgins, one of the two men who
discovered gold at Burnt Yards, near Car-
coar (N.S.W.), went west last week, aged
76. He had the old-age pension at the end.
Major I\ G. Freeman, a St. Peter’s Col-
lege master, lately back in Adelaide, claims
the record of taking a boat to England With
reinforcements and returning with a ship-
ment of Diggers without having to make out
a crime-sheet.
Dr. Cunningham, of the Argus, has been
put among the physicians and surgeons itt
the “Red Book” classified telephone direc-
tory. His “National” party, threatened
with general break-up, will call for all his
medical skill during the next 12 months.
“Bardoc”: J. C. Mawle, whom Reynolds
pictured for The Bulletin, was 84 last
birthday. He was at Port Arthur penal
settlement as storekeeper and clerk of the
court for 15 years—from 1802 to 1877 —and
remembers Well the day when Marcus Clarke
walked in oil the hunt for the horrors with
Which he afterwards thrilled the readers of
“For the Term of His Natural Life.” Mawle
says that Clarke asked for “the worst re-
cords in the place.” The day he arrived the
Commandant was down with the gout, and
Mawle had the job of supplying the visitor
with what he was after. Mawle’s own idea
is that in the latter days of the settlement
the condition of the convicts was greatly
improved. The old man, who was born in
Tasmania, lives now at Hobart. While most
people at his age would be glad to sit down
quietly he bustles around as a compiler of
taxation returns; but he is keenest on get-
ting his experiences out in book form. It
is a son of his who guides .visitors around
the grim old port.
“Senex” looks backward:
Further details about the Hentys (B. 20/2/’l9)
rouse me to pay tribute to the memory of a hardier
pioneer than even they were. This was Mrs. Mary
Bannister, of Bendigo. Her father, attracted by
accounts of the Swan River, formed a partnership
with a Dr. Foley. The pair bought 20 sheep, a
wherry-boat, three years’ grub and the materials for
a wooden house, and accompanied by the little girl
(Mrs. Bannister was eight, and the only female i«
the party) embarked in the Ship Protector, arriving
where Fremantle now is on February 14, 1830.
There were 120 settlers aboard, and for a score of
years prior to her death Mrs. Bannister was the ohly
survivor. The Bannisters’ house (the first of the
kind to be erected in Westralia) was put up in Hay-
street. Later, when the Victorian gold-rushes broke
out, she and her husband were among the earliest irt
Bendigo, and erected the first permanent house
there. It is still standing in the street named after
the dame —Bannister-street. She was a good Aus-
tralian who wanted Australian goods. From raw
wool she spun the worsted she needed and knitted
the garments. The fine old soul died in 1913, aged
92.
Already General Brand, Victoria’s new
Military Commandant, has relieved the
administrative staff of several “citieeii”
officers who had held soft jobs at the bat-
racks for three or four years, and replaced
them with returned men; and the military
police are to be re-
organised in the same
way. When Brand,
just after his appoint-
ment, “roared up”
returned men who
didn’t salute, and
especially officers who
di d n’t return the
salute, there was a
yell, and a thousand
people wanted to
throw insulting para-
graphs. But there
isn’t a man who is
prouder of the Digger
than Brand, or
prouder to be a Dig-
ger ; and there are not
many generals who
have more of the Dig-
g e r’s characteristic
qualities than this
plain, plucky ex-
Queensland school-
teacher.
R.J. MEAGHER,
Chairman Tasmanian
Public Service Board.
A number of instruments and articles
used by Colonel Light in the survey of Adel-
aide in 1837 came to the surface recently.
They were originally the property of Wm.
Jacob, who came with Light as a member of
his staff. They are now in the possession
of Dr. Angas Johnson, of Adelaide, who is
always on the lookout for any article con-
nected with the early history of South Aus.
Light was an artist-soldier who served in
the Peninsular Wars under Wellington His
friend Sir Charles Napier recommended him
as the first Governor of South Aus.; but
he had, to be content with second place.


<f-
ei
Navy Cu t
Tobacco
In airligkl lins
W.D. & H.O.WILLS
THE PIPE OF QUALITY—
400
LMN
sS
, ef y P‘P eGua^e e(i
M mi
Wi #
X:«v;assa
m&tijsY*'-**


YOUR HAIR
Needs
Nourishment.
WATCH YOUR
BRUSH and COMB.
YOU WILL SOON
SEE THE GOOD
John Strange Winter’s Hair Foods
Oily 3/9, Non-oily 4/9, does the Hair.
Our other Toilet Preparations viz.: Powders (3 tints), New Pace Cream (2 colors)
Dental Cream, Soap, Eakshmi Cot on. Dry Shampoo, Shaving 1 Sticks ' ’
AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDAES CONDON, PAMS, ROME.
Obtainable at Parmer’s, David Jones’s, The Civil Service, Washington H. Soul’s,
W. T. Waters’, Anthony Horderns’, and all leading chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for any one sample to John Strange Winter (Condon, Paris, Rome)
Sydney Office, 32 Depot, 26 Jamieson Street, Sydney. e '
\Aeltonian
{specialties
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St, Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. .
-
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modem and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Rough Sar’nt-Major”: After the Evac-
uation, while there were yet only two x\us-
tralian infantry divisions, the Ist were in-
clined to refer to the 2nd in a sarcastic vein
as “Dugout Diggers,” and some said that
the junior division’s part on Gallipoli was
confined more or less to pick-and-shovel
work. Just before Pozieres I greeted a
9th Battalion “snoozer” with, “Hello,
Anzac,” and he turned on me like a tiger
with, “What-ho, Digger!” The term was
received by the 2nd as a doubtful compli-
ment for some time, but it eventually lost
its sting and was then supposed to have died
of wounds. It was revived by the Yid-
disher tailors’ touts around Ilorseferry-road,
and when I came to the Smoke in T 7 on
furlough from Franco I was attacked by
TOO MODEST ALTOGETHER.
REGGIE: “You know there's one thing I don't
understand."
DOLLY: “Oh, more than that, surely."
these young merchants with, “Wanna buy
a pair of ridin’ strides, Digger?” During
that nine days’ leave I was Diggered so
much that I was glad to get away to my
unit, where at that time everyone was
“Nugget.” When the five divisions were
formed into an army corps, “Dinkum
Digger” was the thing. But the Australian
is too progressive to cling to any catchword
for long. When we first went into Armen-
tieres early in ’l6 we found ourselves face
to face with “the Squid.” Later in the
piece we went down to the Somme to deal
with “the Bosche.” It was “the wily Hun”
that withdrew from Bapaume in ’l7. It
was “the Hunk” we met at Menin Road ; and
when we hastened to the Somme in March,
’lB, we were informed by the fragments of
the sth Army that “ ‘Jerry’ was coomin’.”
When what was left of me passed through
the English hospitals just prior to the armis-
tice, I found that “Aussie” was fighting
“Digger” to a finish. At that time the
A.l.F.’s in the field were calling one another
“Guys,” and other Yankee terms of endear-
ment. But that didn’t last long.
* * * *
Although the ’flu germ has not been
attaching itself to Westralians, there was
one man in the State who resolved that his
town should not be caught unprepared. Let
the Mayor of Wagin explain himself. “It
is purely a precautionary matter,” he said.
“It. has been customary for years to have
‘store’ graves, about three in each depart-
ment, Anglican, Methodist and Free
Church. The number has been doubled in
each department, six in each, 18 in all.”
The councillors, however, failed to appreci-
ate the Mayor’s thoughtfulness, and a
motion was carried that they “did not
approve of the action of the Mayor in hav-
ing the extra graves dug.” The Mayor was
so astonished that he resigned.
* * * *
A new biography of Lady Victoria Buxton
shows, what we might have expected, that
poor old Thomas Fowell took the nomination
to the S. Australian Governorship as a “call”
and gave it “careful and prayerful reflec-
tion” before deciding that he “could not
rightly decline the proffered task.” Lady
Victoria was just the wife for him. Her
mother, attached to the Court of Queen Vic-
toria, was. the only person who ever gave
that astonished lady firm advice against an
intended Sunday journey; she was also
famous for haying, in Paris, refused all the
Emperor’s invitations for Sunday functions.
The daughter’s one fear, on becoming
engaged to Fowell Buxton, was that he was
not good enough for her; but next evening
they had “such a delightful reading together
of the 17th of John,” and all was “unmixed
satisfaction and joy.” It was just after the
birth of her third child that she was struck
down by the spinal complaint which stayed
with her ever after ; her receptions in Adel-
aide, and her travelling, were all got through
either lying down or kneeling up. But this
did. not release her from her mid-Victorian
obligation of producing and bringing up a
family of nine, and they all survived her,
though she lived to 77.
* * * *
Put in a handful of words, this is why
Jellicoe didn’t push the battle of Jutland
to a finish in the gathering darkness and in
the enemy’s mine-infested waters. In 1916
the British navy the superiority
ascribed to it. Its battle-cruisers
were actually inferior to those of the
liuns for both defence and attack;
consequently three were sunk in the
first half-hour. They were inferior also
in searchlights, which was bad for a night
scrimmage. In short, it wasn’t a time to
take desperate risks. Nelson might have
done so, though, as a matter of fact, that
great tactician dodged most carefully and
got his enemy into a bad place before he
did things that looked reckless. But in
his day Britain could afford to risk the
loss of a fleet- It had no army on the
continent that would be marooned if it lost
its hold on the sea. It fed itself, so blockade
hardly mattered. And there
colonies of importance
to defend.. Nelson staked 2d.
where Jellicoe staked an empire.
The great Horatio, with the one
arm and the one eye and the
beloved Emma, is an institution,
like Geo. Washington with his
hatchet and his cherry-tree; but
he would probably have acted off
Jutland just as Jellicoe did. One knew quite
as well as the other that no nation was ever
saved by being blown up in the dark.
* * * *
“D”: Before the war the possibilities of
the African black as a soldier were un-
known even to such men as General Smuts.
They soon became evident. In 1915 I
asked a Turkish officer-prisoner in the com-
pound near Mahdi which troops he con-
sidered the bravest on the Peninsula. He
said unhesitatingly: “So long as their 6ffi-
cers last, the French-Africans.” Com-
mander Wedgwood, speaking in the House
of Commons recently, said : “Among the most
formidable troops that I have ever seen are
the Askaris who fought in East Africa under
German leadership.” It would be possible,
in his opinion, to organise from them “one
of the most powerful armies the world has
ever seen.” As a matter of fact, the Ger-
mans, were doing it when the war began;
and it was only their idiotic obsession in
regard to the likelihood of Britain remaining
neutral that caused them to start the war
before they were ready in the African field.
The idea of the German Colonial Office, as
disclosed in 1912, was. to acquire Portuguese
Fast and West Africa and the Belgian
Congo and link them with Ivamerun. The
THE PHILANTHROPIST.
“I wouldn't ha' shouted only I know yer missus and kids are starvin'.”
territory would have made an ideal jumping-
off place for the conquest of Egypt and the
Soudan. By this means, and by naval bases
on both sides of Africa, control of the routes
to India and Australasia would have followed.
The instrument, had things gone otherwise
in Europe, was to have been a horde of
African blacks, who for brute courage and
capacity to stand fatigue and privation are
in a class by themselves —men who, as sol-
diers, are what the best of the Indians were
represented to be in the very early days of the
war, and a bit over. They are still there
waiting to be organised by Germany for the
purposes of a sort of 20th century Second
Punic War. If Britain and the other in-
terested members of the Entente agree to
any arrangement likely to make such a horror
possible, at the instance of the idealistic
and remote Wilson, they will deserve all that
comes to their countries later on.
* * * *
Vie. Labor-leader Prendergast lately
called unsuccessfully upon the Ministry to
reduce railway-fares to a flat rate, abolish-
ing the present invidious distinction between
first- and second-class travellers. On Eight-
Hours Day, however, Prendy’s principles
were held in abeyance. At the Richmond
racecourse, where the committee in charge
of the Trades Hall building fund held a
meeting, Labor made itself part up an extra
four bob for grandstand tickets. The show
possibly wouldn’t have paid otherwise; but
Railwavs Minister Barnes got nothing but
hoots when he said much the same thing
about the proposed change in his depart-
ment’s policy.
* * # *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The Bulletin’s
report of the death of a woman-pioneer of
Lambing Flat reminds me that there were
other 'would-be women pioneers of the gold-
field who never got there. At the time of
the “roll up” against the Chinese (June,
1861) the 12th Regiment, under Colonel
Kempt, was stationed in Sydney. The
Colonial-Secretary, “Slippery Charlie”
Cowper, had visited the field and returned
to Sydney determined to “do something.” He
instructed Col. Kempt to send a company of
soldiers to the Flat to suppress the riots and
shoot down the rioters, if necessary. Kempt
ordered a company or two of soldiers to be
ready to proceed next day to Campbelltown,
the then terminus of the Southern railway.
Most of the men were married, and some of
the women insisted on accompanying their
husbands. The Colonel said this was impos-
sible. The women were obdurate, and, as
time was short. Kempt gave way and con-
sented. A condition was, however, that they
should occupy carriages apart from the men.
They were, moreover, warned of the heavy
march from Campbelltown to the Flat; but
this did not daunt them. All aboard, the
station-master gave the cue to the guard;
the latter signalled the driver and the train
sped on its way. But only that portion
which held the men. The after part, with
the women, had not been hooked on.
* * * *
A unique breach-of-promise case camp into
the Supreme Court at Nelson (M.L.) re-
cently, when Ann Taylor, a lady of over 70,
endeavored to tear £450 from John Pender,
who pleaded guilty to having spent nearly
80 years on this planet. Ann was a spin-
ster, but John was a widower with nine
children and a bank balance of £l2OO, which
made him worth catching. His family, how-
ever, had no intention of allowing Dad to
be caught, and sat down hard on his amor-
ous propensities. Horsehair, after listening
to the facts, said there had undoubtedly been
a contract to marry, and the jury handed
Ann £5O to mend her shattered heart.
* * * *
“Jobber’s” statement:
I came home on the Osterlev, which brought a
good many soldiers and their wives, wives without
their soldier husbands, and 210 most desirable immi-
grants in the shape of babies. I was told by a few
of the wives-without-husbands that their men had
been taken off the ship’s list at the last moment,
because there was no room. The same tale was
related by a few of the chaps whose wives had been
left behind. I can’t swear to the correctness of
these complaints; but what follows is dinkurn. We
had a passenger who travelled under the name of,
say, Smith, though Smith was as much like his right
name as mine is like Hohenzollern. None of us
approved of his accent, though we’ve heard similar
attempts at the English language before. We were told
he was a Russian or a Polish Jew, and, even assuming
that to be correct, how in thunder did any
foreigner get a passage to Australia when so many
of our own people were'turned down? Of course,
most of them were only Diggers or their wives, so
perhaps it doesn’t matter.
(Continued on page 18.)
SYDNEY-APRIL, 1919.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They are such lovely clays, these April days,
When Autumn cools the summer air, and high
The shadowy pine-trees lift towards the sky,
Through the blue haze of autumn-tempered noons,
A crest of welcome for the winter moons.
They are such lovely days, these April days,
When Autumn gives her lips to Summer’s mouth.
But, ah, how fares it with you in the South,
My queenly city girdled by the sea,
’Midst haunting towers of happy memory ?
They are such lovely days, these April days.
Was there no shield to guard that loveliness
That shimmers through the twilight of her dress,
That loveliness of lilacs and of reds,
That lies beyond the hauteur of the Heads?
They are such lovely days, these April days.
But my heart aches, away in Brisbane town,
Because, beneath my southern city’s gown
(With the lace mask across her ripe mouth prest),
There grows a plague-spot on that perfect breast.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


m
a
a
i
Sr
m
m
1
WAR TIME SERVICE
GOODYEAR justly claims credit for a wonderful record of War
Time Service. This world-wide organisation with its vast
resource of raw material, its truly remarkable specialization of human
endeavour and resultant high standard and tremendous volume of
finished product—all this, gave of its best in service through the
years of war.
Developed during the pre-war years of peace, their organisation for War many times multiplied the
capacity of the huge factories at Akron (U.S.A.) and Toronto (Canada), where the Military Experts ot
all the great Allied Powers joined with Goodyear in co-ordinating the activities and increasing the
output of thousands upon thousands of men, to meet War’s ever pressing needs.
And every branch of the Allied Military Service had its demands on Goodyear fully and faithfully met
—her ( e, a whole department devoted to the manufacture and equipment of Military Balloons, with its own
hangars and flying field, its flying school and corps of instructors there, an entirely new staff of
specially trained operatives turning out Gas Masks for the protection of our boys in the trenches —scores
of thousands completed every working day.
But it was Goodyear’s proudest privilege to serve most and best where the need was greatest of all.
The whole organisation of the World’s production in its relation to the means of transportation—from point oi
production to its ultimate destination and use, depended almost entirely on the Tyre that carried the load. For no
other carrying facility was capable of meeting the needed expansion, or suited every type of haul or length of
journey as did the special tyre designed for just that carrying purpose—and none so well as bore the Goodyear brand
and name.
And this is Goodyear’s reason to be proud. For War time needs and conditions of service offered the final
and greatest test of Goodyear superiority which gave to Goodyear Tyres, as to all other Goodyear products,
a pre-emptive right to fame.
Branches & Agencies
all Principal Cities.
Service Stations &
Dealers Everywhere.


A Modern Philosopher, Lecturer and a Great Student writes that Clements Tonic
is certainly a Medicine for the Tired Brain.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE REVEREND GEORGE WALTERS has had a long and active career as a
Minister of the Unitarian Denomination, as a student of modern philosophy and
Science, and as a literary critic and dramatist.
His church work extends from Lancashire and Aberdeen, United Kingdom, to
Melbourne and Sydney, Australia. He is author of the dramatic works,
CLEfIENTS TONIC LTD.
“Joseph of Canaan,” “Thou Fool,” and “Empire,” or the “Tragedy of Maxi-
millian in Mexico.” He has also been President of the Shakspeare Society of
New South Wales, and is an active member and vice-president of the Dickens
Fellowship.
The following letter should be read by all students and members of the Literary
Societies of New South Wales with exceptional interest: —
“ [ have much pleasure in testifying that I have, at various times, derived much benefit from taking
Clements Tonic.
“ When feeling * run down ’ and in need of • winding up,’ or when suffering from brain-fag and nerve
strain, a short course of Clements Tonic has invariably brought relief and consequent re=invigoration.
“ It helps one to say (with little * Pippa,’ in Browning’s poem):
“‘God’s in His Heaven; all’s right with the World.’”
“Mosman, Sydney, September, 1918.” “(Signed),
If any greater proof is required of the powers of this splendid medicine, the testi-
monies given afford it, written hy those who can well afford by experience to judge of
its merits. For the general good of the public they are published, and are well worth
reading by everyone.
SEND TO YOUR CHEMIST OR STORE FOR IT TO-DAY. IT IS AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN.
“Glenins”: The intense-culture area at
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.), the most fertile
region in the State, contains some 5000
acres of rich soil, the greater part of it being
closely packed by the best kind of rural pro-
ducer, occupying holdings of from two to 50
acres and getting tremendous results there-
from. No less than 2000 acres of the area,
formerly bought by the late “Money” Miller,
are now held by that plutocrat’s sons. An
agricultural writer lately visited Bacchus
Marsh and published his impressions. He
alleges that the Miller land is “the only blot
on the district.” It is in a suitable position
for irrigation, but immense quantities of
water are running through it without being-
used, while 400 acres are covered with
thistles 6ft. high. Some years ago, in deal-
ing with the possibilities of lucerne-growing,
Dr. Cherry, formerly director of Agriculture,
mentioned that as much as £lOO an acre had
been paid on various occasions for estab-
lished lucerne pastures at Bacchus Marsh.
As 15 acres are estimated to provide a
satisfactory living for a working family in
the district —five tons of hay an acre being
a normal average—the time seems about ripe
for shifting the Millers and the thistles. A
proposition which could sustain 100 returned
soldiers is hardly one to be overlooked.
ONE COCKTAIL AND ANOTHER.
W IFE: “You drink too much. Why don't
you put the brakes on?”
HUSBAND: “Can't—frightened of skidding."
The eccentric woman with a charge
against a man used to be a weekly institu-
tion, and at one time Australia had a set of
hysterical judges who took the woman’s most
improbable story for granted, squashed all
opposition, and hanged, flogged or gaoled the
defendant. For a time in the old Win-
deyer days the craze of the injured female
was akin to the witch craze in New Eng-
land in Cotton Mather’s time. Now cases of
the sort are heard more dispassionately; but,
all the same, Peter Pernoni, of Ballarat, may
consider himself a lucky man. The plaintiff
was good-looking, intelligent and coherent.
All went well till she was leaving the
witness-box. Then in a confiding or super-
fluous moment she mentioned that this
wasn’t her first grievance. She had previ-
ously been “chased about.” The Court sat
up and asked for details. It transpired that
she was a chronic victim. A man in Mel-
bourne had threatened to drown her. She
HER TRICK.
“I am a man of a very strong will."
“Yes, dearest, and I am a woman of a very
strong won't.”
fled to Ballarat to escape him. In a Sydney
sanatorium Condy’s fluid had been put in
her tea with lethal intentions. Things had
been “said to her.” Also her stage career
had been blighted. The Court decided that
it couldn’t convict on her evidence. But. if
she hadn’t given way to needless volubility
the defendant’s present address might be a
beastly permanent one.
* * * #
“Pulex”; There is at least one front-rank
physician in Sydney who is wearing his ’flu
mask on his feet. He will not have it that
the disease is distributed by germs expelled
from the mouth and nose. The fact that in
American experiments it was found impossi-
ble to deliberately infect volunteers by sneez-
ing into the face, the sneezers being persons
in all stages of the disease, strengthens him
in his conviction that some other medium
has to be looked for; and the flea being an
insect without friends, and being known,
moreover, to be a disseminator of other dis-
eases—plague, for instance —he throws the
responsibility in that direction. Wherefore
he carries formalin in his boots; and, if it
does him no good, it certainly won’t hurt
him.
• ft*
“Ed”: I know now how the blind beggar
sometimes feels about it. He sat on a camp-
stool in Flinders-street. The day was warm.
A listless crowd drifted by. The notice
swung about his neck informed all and sun-
dry of his pitiful misfortunes, and “Assist
the blind,” he droned: “a coin for the poor
blind man.” He had four tones —a sort of
moan, suggestive of pain; a throaty call,
suggesting tears; a crisp bark like a mili-
tary command, implying “Stand and de-
liver!” and a whisper that hinted at despair.
But as I stood at an adjacent shop-window,
watching, the command came out with a new
emphasis. “Assist the blind!” said he. The
crowd still went shuffling by, hot, thirsty.
“Assist the blind!” more shrill, more imperi-
ous. “Assist the blind!” It had become a
fierce bark now. “Assist the blind, you
!” The crowd still shuffled on, list-
lessly, unheedingly. Then the blind man
jumped up, grabbed his stool, and hit out
furiously while the pedestrians scattered in
all directions. “You swine!” he said ; “you
dirty swine—assist the blind!” He cooled
down as suddenly as he had boiled over,
replaced his folding-chair against the veran-
dah-post, and re-seated himself. “Assist the
blind !” he said in a sweet, pitiful voice. “A
coin for the poor blind man!”
* * * #
“Bouragi”; Merrie England No. 2, the
official yacht of the Papuan Government,
which has gone the way of No. 1, leaving
her bones on a coral reef, had nothing of the
beauty or the romance of her predecessor.
The first Merrie England started life as the
yacht of the Marquis of Aylesbury, a blood
of the ’7o’s and ’SO’s, famous for his amazing
white top-hats and his
more amazing black-
guardism. The Merrie
England went the way
of all his possessions,
finally landing in the
hands of the British
New Guinea adminis-
tration. As might be
expected from her
antecedents, she was
fast, but frightfully ex-
pensive to keep going.
Also no one ever knew
what she was going to
do next. The addition
of an 80-ton lead keel
made her more unbal-
anced than ever, and
the man who could
keep on his feet aboard
her with a south-easter
abeam was reckoned a
Blondin. Even that
tough adventurer Wil-
liam Macgregor was
scared of her, and,
whenever she anchored
for the night, ashore
he would go and camp
—cannibals or no can-
nibals. She helped
Macgregor’s survey
work in N.G. consider-
ably by butting into
unsuspected reefs in
the most innocent-
looking places. But
her teak hull an d
heavy lead keel
couldn’t save her one
morning outside Port
Moresby, when she
collided with a reef
that she had skirted
unharmed a hundred times.
* * * *
“Jobber” : The -motor-lorry was well and
truly snowed in, and the Diggers had been
grafting like one thing without making much
headway. A fine car bowled up to within a
few yards, and it, too, was held. Soon a
voice appealed to the lorry men, asking if
they could give the car a tow. That was the
dead finish. “Tow be ——! Can’t you
see us stuck ’ere ourselves with this
?” The officer turned and walked
away, and I heard him say to his cobber,
“Australians.” It was “Birdy.”
“Sergeant S.”: Speaking of mascots, the
goat took first place easily.
Wallabies, kangas, dogs and
birds went off with the Ist
Div., but King William was
the only one to see the business
through with his unit. Egypt
finished the marsupials. Of
the dogs those that found their
way to France yielded to the
advances of Ma’m’selle Tyke,
strayed and were lost. Birds
could not stand the exposure,
though that good Australian,
the sulphur-crested
cocky, put up a good
battle. On our Wil-
liam, who was of
royal Charters Towers
blood, neither the
sands of Egypt nor
the snows of France
had any effect. He
thrived on anything
from issue cigarettes
to staff-officers’ decora-
tions, and when the
’flu had us down Wil-
liam would arrive
before the M.O. and
clean up all the medi-
cine in tablet form
left lying on the table.
He was a dandy, too,
in his way-—Joe Cook
beard, with horns fol-
lowing the lines of
Wilhelm ll.’s mo’s;
and a stiff dandy-brush
kept his coat right for
walking out. The
transport lines were
his home at all times:
on the march he would
perch up on the G.S.
waggon looking as wise
as a J.P.
The Bulletin gets a partnership offer: —
By the grace of Heaven, good fortune has
descended upon me. With the mixture of many herbs
I have achieved a most wonderful cure for the ill-
ness of influenza, and which must be breathed
through the nose and mouth. Many thousands of
people have given thanks and much coin for my
remedy that keeps illness of influenza away. But I
am wise with the wisdom of my forefathers. For
have I not made my great remedy of such strength
that it will destroy the membranes of the noses of
those who have paid me? When it comes to pass
that this illness of influenza shall be swept away,
many people will remain with much catarrh and
nasal difficulties. Then will 1 create a great cure
for catarrh which will cost me but ninepence, and
which I shall sell for 30 oence. Therefore, Bulletin
sahib, wilt thou barter with me that thou shalt share
in my good fortune? For, by the grace of the adver-
tisement which thou shalt confer upon thine honor-
able servant, many thousands of people will heap
upon us gold and silver.
Trusting that the grace of Heaven may continue
to shine upon thee, and allow thy greatly-to-be-
trusted servant to continue the ministering to the
illness of influenza ,
Afgab Zur.
P.S.—Speedily send thine answer lest the illness
of influenza pass away, and we shall be caught bend-
ing in our unpreparedness.
S. Australia isn’t smelling as sweet as
usual. The Commission which inquired into
the Wheat Board uncovered something that
badly wanted disinfecting; and now the same
thing has happened through Britten Jones,
late Government valuator,' being given a
chance to speak out before the new Parlia-
mentary Commission which is sitting to re-
consider the case of Styles, one of the
Vaughan Ministry :
Do you mean that the present Government used
Mr. Webb [he sat as a Commissioner to inquire into
the Ministry's land dealings] as an instrument for
its own ends?—l do.
say that Mr. Webb was a political tool?—Yes.
Aon say you were made a scapegoat to suit the
Government’s own ends?—-There is no doubt about
it. Lots of things were said, and if they did not
suit the other party they were not taken down.
Britten Jones’s attention was called to the
serious nature of his evidence; and he
repeated it. And at least one ex-Minister
hits alleged that at or about the time when
Webb was sitting as a Commission, he was
seeking an increase of his salary as a magis-
trate. It is probably all quite unfair to
Webb; the whole trouble arises from the
bad S. Australian habit of setting up light-
weights as Commissioners.
* * * *
Luck hasn’t been with the Union Co.’s
Pacific service since the P. and O. got hold
of the business. The co. has been trying to
run the passenger line with two boats, the
Niagara and the Makura. The Makura has
been so often held up for one thing and
another that it has almost got into the habit
of cutting out Sydney and waddling from
Vancouver to Auckland and back again.
Now the Niagara, which got the blame for
bringing the virulent brand of ’flu into
Maoriland, has been “evacuated” at Auck-
land, after accumulating nearly 50 cases
between Sydney and that port; and there
have been close upon 500 passengers cooling
their heels at the breezy entrance to Auck-
land harbor.
AN UNFORTUNATE BID.
MOTHER (showing new haby to rich uncle
from abroad): “We have named our
baby after you, Uncle Jack."
RICH UNCLE: “ That's a good idea, and he
had better start oyt in life without a
cent just the same as I did."
LIGHT IN THE DARKNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, as the Autumn leaves come rustling down,
Cold sorrow sits upon the mirthless town.
Masked to the eyes, pale beauty hurries by;
And to the flutter of the little breezes
The tufted clouds go up the sombre sky,
While doctors battle with the fitful sneezes.
Few words are said, for speech is waste of breath;
One tainted verb may be the speaker’s death.
Our noses are our very first concern,
And bashful love in such a time as this is
Sits far from love and does not seek to learn
Even the taste of hot and home-made kisses.
Too drear, too sad are all our works and ways;
But for one word of cheer let there be praise.
The London Times has sent the message through:
“Against the epidemic now prevailing,
Take alcohol—wine, whisky, stout will do—
In England this specific was unfailing.”
Down with the mask ! Down with the cursed drink!
The cure is wrought ere we have time to wink.
Come Sissy! Maud ! We pledge you in a glass—
No vision of delight shall we be losing.
Bring hampers out and picnic on the grass ;
The microbe hates the very sight of boozing!
Roll up the casks and set the world a-swill!
Bring all that vats can brew or “worms” distil—
It shall be Saturnalia again!
Teetotal logic sits without a rag on ;
And, ’mid the bounteous and preserving rain,
Its zealot drains for health a brimming flagon.
x.s.w.
F. A. HEPBURN.


fed to the
9
Champion of the British Empire
■Hi
rnmmmmmmmm
■
4 WESTMERE PRINCESS PIETERTJE,’
Champion of the British Empire.
The following, which are only a few of the records established in 1918 by stock fed on Meggitt Limited’s @ Linseed
Oil Meal, substantiates our contention that this highly nutritious fodder increases Hilk and Butter Fat production.
_ • „Westmere Princess Pietertje,” the property of Mr. W. D. Hunt,
Bamfield, Invercargill, Southland, N.Z. Winner of semi-official
record as a junior 4 years old, 24.1991 b. milk and 939.781 b.
butter-fat in 365 consecutive days, coming in again 32 days after finish-
ing her record. This makes her champion milk and butter-fat cow of the
British Empire. “
“Golden Noble Duchess” (imp.), owned by Mr. C. D. Lloyd. This
cow also won the Champion Butter-fat Test, with a yield on the Show
Ground of 132 % lb. milk for three days, average test 5.47, equivalent to
7)4 lb. butter-fat, or nearly 8)4 lb. commercial butter, Melbourne R.A.
Show, 1918.
“Jessie VI. of Melrose,” owned by Mr. Woodmason, Malvern, Vic.,
won the Championship for the highest individual result in 273 days.
Victorian Government Test, 1918, with 76911 b. of milk. 6.74 test. 518.35
butter-fat, 24)4 lb. of milk last day of test.
. , “. Vio l e t of East View,” Champion Illawarra Cow, R.A. Show,
Adelaide, 1917 and 1918. Bred and owned by Mr. A. W. Shillabeer,
Adelaide, S.A. (This heifer in 9 months produced more milk than any
heifer in the Commonwealth at her own age.)
“Joyce,” Illawarra cow, winner of the National Champion Butter-fat
Test Cup, Brisbane R.A. Show, 1918. “Joyce” gave 122)4 lb. of milk in
48 hours, yielding 5.91 b. of commercial butter. Owned by Mr. H. Benbow,
Toogoolawah, Queensland.
“Milton’s Dixie,” Ist Champion Guernsey Cow, 3 years and under 4
in milk, Sydney R.A. Show, 1918. Owned by A. Hordern, Esq. (Mr.
W. Carter, manager), Milton Park Stud, Bowral, says: “I have used
Meggitt Limited’s M.L.M. for the past six years, and found it excellent
for getting cattle into condition. It also increases the yield of milk and
butter-fat production.”
“Pretty Maid of Harelmar,” Brisbane R.A. Show, 1918. Record test
for eight months of any breed in Queensland; 6.8311 b. of butter in 48
hours. Bred and owned by Mr. F. A. Stimpson. Rivera Dairy, Fairfield
Queensland.
“Charm of Glenthorne,” Champion Illawarra Cow, R.A. Show, Bris-
bane, 1918. Giving the largest quantity of milk in 48 hours, viz., 711 b.;
also winner of Home Competition. Bred and oxvned by Mr. B. O’Connor,
“Oakvale,” Colinton, Queensland.
“Lady May of East View.” Reserve Champion Illawarra. Grand
Champion Dairy Cow. Winner of Bosanquet Challenge Cup, R.A. Show,
Brisbane, 1918. Milk test, 72}£lb. of milk (aged 3 years). Owned bv
Mr. Shillabeer, Adelaide, S.A.
Meggitt Limited’s
Linseed Oil Meal Equally Effective for All Classes of Stock
your Cows, Calves, Horses, Pigs, Poultry and Sheep on Meggitt Limited’s © Linseed Oil Meal.
© will Increase Production and Reduce Cost of Feeding.
PAMPHLET NO. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents.—Messrs. R. 8. Exton & Co., Queen Street. Brisbane Messrs
Messrs. F. H . Heritage & Co., Eaunceston and Hobart. Messrs. Clarkson Elmited Bundle
Street, Perth; or
Harrisons, Ramsay, Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Street, Adelaide. Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King
MEGGITT LTD.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal
Manufacturers of Australia)*
WORKS s PARRAMATTA.
26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY
MEGGTTS
IJBHBOHffH
m
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


CASTOR OIL, SALTS * DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syr.up of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in two
sizes, 1/6 and 2/i. [3
CitS
.iSSies
• nTwgSS
i lutvroataw
\ l\ inwi«V»¥2irrt'-n>*
55“!
D «p?»
tefeS-s
sSu*
i
FREE
TRIAL
BOTTLE
If You Are
Run Down.
Builds up Health and Strength.
If you are run down from overwork, anxiety, illness, or
if your appetite and digestion are impaired and your
nervous system in need of a tonic, no treatment will give
such all-round good results as a course of Angier’s
Emulsion. It promotes appetite, soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression
and builds up health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession for twenty*
five years ; it is a standard remedy of proved value.
Send name and address, 4d. postage, and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., LTD., 233 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In 1917 the earnings of Australian fac-
tories, apart from the cost of raw material,
were £6,709,150 more than in 1916. Of this
£2,789,378 went in increased wages and
£671,342 in extra cost of fuel. This left the
factory-owners apparently £3,248,430 better
off, but as they had to spend £3,309,561 on
new machinery, as well as a good deal on
extra land and buildings in order to earn
the extra money, their net progress was very
much backward. The importer is the only
man who goes consistently forward.
The expected smash in the Westralian
Ministerial party has occurred, and Premier
Lefroy goes out and takes his record of drift
and ineptitude with him. Lefroy suffered
from an excess of affability; and this is no
time for affability in the administration of a
State which is rushing along to bankruptcy.
Colebatch, who will succeed his late leader,
has more punch; but, politically, he has
lived in the atmosphere of the Leg. Council,
and that isn’t the best training for the job of
sweating fat and practising ruthless
economy.
Anyway, if John Bull gets into trouble lie
doesn’t throw the bill for the damages to the
baby. In 1913 the national revenue was
£188,801,000. Last year income and pro-
perty taxes alone brought in £291.186,000,
excess profits revenue was £285,025,000, and
the gross total reached £889,020,000. In
other words, for every £1 raised for all pur-
poses before the war, £3 10s. has been raised
to meet war necessities. Australia has been
satisfied with the odd shillings.
If there is much more selling of War
Loan stock the Government will have to go
into the market and relieve the weak holders*
who have brought quotations down so low
that buyers are now able to get an invest-
ment showing nearly 61 p.c. It doesn't take
more than one sale to make a quotation ; yet
so long as there is that one forced sale at a
ridiculous price the Government will have
difficulty in making a success of this year’s
big loan when it is offered at a reasonable
price.
One-lialf the world doesn’t know what the
other half imports. Among the things that
Australia brought by foreign ships from
abroad for the year to 30/6/’lB were:—
Butter ( £592), cheese ( £2940), eggs ( £434),
honey (£l2), meat ( £211,887), horsefeed
( £5409), apples ( £21,040), bananas ( £137,140),
barley, maize, oats and wheat ( £1007), flour
( £1757), hops ( £5272), salt ( £27,582), ‘onions
( £378), potatoes ( £367), pigs, fowls, sheep
(£16,805), hides, skin, hoofs and horns
(£400,614), starch (£284), grease (£23,819),
tallow ( £22,658), beeswax ( £4842), putty
(£3556), bricks (£9745).
No sensible person could complain of Aus-
tralia sending away £1417 for door-knobs
and £206,125 for matches, the making of
these things being far beyond the intelligence
of a community which tolerates so many im-
porters. But it seems rather too much that
£27,582 should be sent away for salt by a
country with the salt sea all round it and
salt lakes dotted all over it.
The complete manufacturing returns for
1917 are just in, and they don’t look en-
couraging for the men who run the show.
The number of “factories” in the Common-
wealth —many of them employing less than
four hands—was 15,179, a slight increase,
but poor compared with the 15.536 of 1913.
Employees were 321,670 as against 337,101
in 1913. Out of A r ery £lOO worth of output
the amount not absorbed by wages, fuel and
raw material was £l7 13s. lOd. per cent, in
1915; £l7 9s. lOd. per cent, in 1916; and
only £l6. ss. per cent, in 1917. This is the
diminishing margin which pays for wages
to. working proprietors, rent, interest, re-
pairs, rates, taxes, new machinery, bad
debts, discounts and profits when there are
any.
FOLLOWED HIM HOME.
LABOR : “He's in my yard, I know, but ’e
ain't mine.”
AUSTRALIA : “Then why in the name of
commomense don’t you boot him out?”
A deputation in Adelaide, rushing in where
angels would fear to tread, proposes that
those who fought in the Boer War should
enjoy the benefits of the local Homes and
Land Settlement measures. The Minister
is alleged to be giving consideration to the
claim. Having sat down quietly for nearly
20 years, the deputation pushes in now when
the country has a bigger job on hand than
ever it had before. Having missed the ’bus,
or forgotten to order one, they want to crowd
into a ’bus that has been called up expressly
for somebody else.
THE GO-SLOW
PROCESSION.
The Provisional
Government which
tried to revolushe in
the name of Liberty
at Johannesburg
(S. Africa) con-
sisted of three
bosses, one being
the inevitable Rus-,
sian. One way and
another the Rus-
sian is getting
himself disliked as
an immigrant. Jo-
hannesburg . being
approachable by fast train from Pretoria and
Capetown, the new Government didn’t roar
with such confidence as the one at out-of-
the-way Darwin, but it did its best.
If Willie Watt doesn’t hurry up with his
promised Protective tariff he will proviue
an epitaph instead of a schedule. In the last
few years Australia has established a linseed-
oil industry, which gives a first-class article
at a reasonable price, besides supplying some
much-needed by-products. To-day linseed
oil is being offered in Blighty, for export, at
“shillings per gallon” under the price at
which it can be manufactured here. That
mav suit the Britisher, but it is no good to
any Australian, because the consumer won’t
get more than sixpence out of the “shillings”
—the importer will annex the balance —while
the Australian manufacturers and their
employees will annex the sack.
At the coal conference which William
Watt assembled in Melbourne it was ‘men-
tioned by a miners’ delegate that the price of
coal had soared from 275. 3d. per ton in
June, 1914, to 38s. 6d. in March, 1919. At
that rate, which was regarded as shocking,
the cost had been bumped up by 41 per cent
Coal being an almost purely local industry,
the proceeds of this comparatively humble
profiteering have been spent
in the country. But when
the price of imported paper
went up 400 per cent., and
the freight by foreign ships
rose 600 per cent., and the
imported clothing 100 to
400 per cent., then this coun-
try began to know what
profiteering really is, and
these profits weren't spent
here. The local coal mag-
nate who can be dealt with
exercises his profiteering skill
on about £5,500,000 worth of
goods, and the row that is
made about him rends the
heavens. The outside mag-
nates who supply this country
with, say, cotton and linen
piece-goods did their much
bigger profiteering last year
on £6,500,000 worth of busi-
ness and supplied no local
employment out of their
profits. Yet the coal-miners
never suggested revolt; they
make it a hard-and-fast rule
not to interfere with the
beloved importer, or to wake
up the tariff issue, or to take
a hand in any constructive
work such as the creation of new industries.
Dooley, deputy-leader of the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Labor party, lias gone to America,
taking his friend Tom Mutch, M.L.A.,
with him. There is a lot to be learned in
the U.S.A. Jiut before any public man
leaves on a foreign expedition he ought to be
obliged to take an oath to the effect that he
will make full and fair inquiry, and come to
a iudgment only upon all the facts. The
trouble with most men is that they drop on
one side of the fence, by accident mostly,
and spend the rest of their lives seeking
reasons to justify themselves. And the
reasons even for hanging pretty nearly any-
body seem rather good until you listen to the
reasons why the same person should be
received with a brass band instead. '
After all the liifalutin about the League
of Nations, there is talk now in Paris of
a new triple alliance —Britain, France and
the U.S.A. The object of the League is to
save Wilson’s face; the alliance is to do the
serious work of keeping peace.
The greatest capitalist on this planet, John
D. Rockefeller, pleaded guilty last year to an
income of £12,000.000, and Uncle Sam re-
lieved him of £7,000,000 as liis share of the
cost of caging Mad Bill. Andrew Carnegie
with an income of £1,500,000 was asked to
hand out £1,000,000. These men didn’t
make much extra as the result of the war;
in previous years their incomes had run as
high. The profiteer, of course, gets fat on
war. But he isn’t always a capitalist. More
often he is just a plain thief.
The importation of chocolates has been
nominally prohibited for the past year.
Before that Australia used to send away
as much as £277,000 in a year for this one
variety of stomach furnishment. Now a
demand has risen for a removal of the re-
striction. It is said that Australia can’t
supply enough of the goods and that the in-
dustry can’t improve here without foreign
goods to copy from, Australians being unfit
to do anything except copy. Also that 20
per cent, of the Australian people are too
proud to put any but imported stuff in their
stomachs, and when a dealer tells them he
can’t supply imported chocolates they “just
walk out.” Well, walking out is at least
healthy exercise—much healthier than run-
ning into debt—and if the community hasn’t
got reconciled in one year to chewing its own
sweets, that shows it wants two or three
years’ more experience.
Last season N. S. Wales had 2,065.880 acres
under wheat, against 4,188,805 acres in 1916.
In other words, the area has diminished
more than one-half and all the progress
made since 1910 has been , wiped out. All
the wheat States have suffered, but none so
badly as Ma. The total area under crop
in .the Commonwealth is only about two-
thirds what it was in 1910. the slump being
between 5,000,000 and 0,000.000 acres. The
fact is that the farmers can’t live by selling
their surplus produce to each other. And
the men they have to sell it to principally—
the artisans who don’t grow vegetables—are
in England instead of here. It costs a lot to
send them the surplus, and they only want
it when they can’t get supplies nearer.
ALWAYS HOWLING.
“A deputation representing the confectionery
importers yesterday waited on Mr. Greene (Minister
for Customs) and urged the raising of the embargo
against the importation of confectionery. It was
stated that local supplies were quite unequal to the
demand, and that imported lollies were preferred to
those of local manufacture.” —SUX.
Australia’s oldest bag manufacturer, J.
Gadsden, who has just got back from a visit
to “the East,” tells of seeing in Manila,
Singapore and Ilong Jvong large consign-
ments of flour milled in Japan from Austra-
lian wheat, and bearing brands which were
close imitations of some he had specially
designed for use by Australian flour ex-
porters. The brown man buys wheat from
us, just as he will presently buy it from
Manchuria and Siberia, gets it milled in
Nippon by almost slave-wage female labor,
then sells it under brands plausibly imitated
to grab the trade that honest Australian mill-
ers have gained. For Australia the obvious
remedy is to insist on our wheat being milled
here, in which case Nippon must either pay
our price or go without, and we should have
all the more export trade and also keep huge
quantities of offal in the country.
THE OLD MEN.
( Paris — 1919.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Earth has suffered and must rest: let there be an
ending-,”
Said the old men, “to the feuds 4 that have gone
before!
Nor, remembering our blood and our treasure’s
spending,
Shall we risk the peoples’ peace, now and evermore.
Therefore shall we make a league, whereby, here and
yonder,
Selfishness shall be foresworn—all that is not ours!
Also, lest by haste we lose, each thing let us ponder,
Equalising, balancing, surer of our powers.
Is there danger from a foe sick and near to dying?”
(Oh, the old men prating of the old way’s worth!)
Down from Kiel to Castellon hear the trumpets cry-
ing,
Hear the Red Battalions’ tramp challenging the
earth 1
While the old men palter,
Hear their thin words chime:
“All will right itself amain;
Only give ns time!”
Danger wakes and broods, and yet move they not tne
faster,
Setting bounds, re-setting bounds, plying rule and
line,
Recking not the planted seed that shall sprout
disaster,
Bearing fruit of Fury by the sleek, still Rhine.
Sullen, sudden, clamorous, each his claim preferring,
In the dreary, olden way, strong in selfishness,
Blowing on the embered hate in the ashes stirring,
Fault and faction cherishing, finding peace the
less.
Oh, the ship that bears our Hope, broken-shafted,
drifting
(Hear the old men prosing in their dull, dim
house!)
Sheer upon the breaker-line through the darkness
lifting,
Where the rocks of creed and race rise beneath
the bows!
Hear the old men hinting:
“Here is need for guile!
Ye shall see what ye shall see
In a little while!”
You shall give to each his will, old men, or refuse
him—
Little shall it matter now, for the end is one;
Dallying with your foeman still, Fate and you shall
use him
From the war that died to breed warring scarce
begun.
Little shall it profit you, who are late in learning,
All your syllogistic sooth drawn from ages dead,
When the riven nations lie brands before the burning,
That you cast them but a stone when they craved
for bread!
Ringed by change, beset by chance, deaf and blind
to changing—
Oh, the old men dreaming of a fledged, full peace!
Down from Omsk to Ortegal a Voice of Blood is
ranging—
The calling of the sons of men, that cries and
will not cease!
In a day that cometh
Hear the old men groan:
“Here, it seems, was need for deeds—■
Would that we had known!”
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


n«f n
u<«»
tv *s^
>:« s
%v^C
*».
\u
U-
-48
gwi
W> "IF"
rS;
-V*.
s’ v
mm
KftiSd
Lbiwbbw* Wnw'""'^
dir
w
ivvn
2V.
jV}Vlin/i t| |j(7m
■HtiT nTm7BS*??Kaa.
“"TO
■* - ilw
HERE IS AN OFFER
that will enable you to obtain without delay a
Pianola Piano
There is a piano in your home —a piano that is silent ninety-nine evenings out of a hundred because
you may not have had time to acquire the technical ability to play it, and because your repertoire
has long since been exhausted.
We will deliver the genuine Pianola Piano X? | f\
to your Home on payment down of
and the balance may be paid in small monthly instalments
How could £JO be better spent than in obtaining the inestimable gift of music, the means to entertain yourself and
your friends on so many occasions.
No one need hesitate to enter into such an arrangement—there are so many prices and such a varying scale of terms
that the Pianola Piano is within the reach of every home.
Special Offer Owners
Think of thisl That long-desired Pianola Piano may be in your home
at once—all you need to do is to describe the Piano to us. Even if
your Piano is an old one, do not hesitate to write—the allowance we
are prepared to make is a generous one, and there are many of the
new models of the Pianola Piano which are comparatively inexpensive.
In order to know how liberal a reduction we are prepared to make on
the price of a genuine Pianola Piano if your present instrument is given
in part exchange
FILL IN THIS COUPON AND POST TO US TO-DAY
VALUATION COUPON “A”
My present Piano is a (Make) -
Purchased in (Date)~.
The original cost was -
Please let me know the best allowance you can make
on this instrument towards the purchase of a genuine
Pianola Piano.
NAME
ADDRESS -
Tell us what your present piano is, and we will quote you
a most liberal allowance upon it to go towards the pur-
chase of a genuine Pianola Piano. The balance can be
paid on terms to suit your convenience, and the Pianola
Piano can be in your home at once.
«'f T;
*
r. ’•>
i! -i
&
*
>»/
I
►r
k*'
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins St., Helbourne; 58 Rundle St., Adelaide ; 434 Queen St., Brisbane.


PERRIN’S
Royal Terminus
Hotel,
BRIGHTON BEACH,
VICTORIA.
First-class Residential Hotel*
Ideal Situation*
'Phone 1018, Brighton.
I
SPORTING
CARTRIDGES
Our Special Offer.
The Celebrated
SOVEREIGN, 21 - per 100
SMOKELESS, 20/6 per 100 —in 500 lots
CARTRIDGE, 20/- per 100 —in 1000 lots.
This is the finest smokeless cartridge made.
12-Gauge, loaded, double-chilled shot, and
Nobel’s Empire Smokeless Powder.
Shot Nos. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 8 and 10.
We have the largest stocks in Victoria
of Winchester, Remington and Dominion
Cartridges. Send for special list.
McEWAN’S,
Melbourne’s Busiest Hardware Store,
119-125 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
King George IV
■x-X.
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
“Azac” : “Konini” (B. 20/3/19), in giv-
ing Maorilander W. Bellas world's shearing record
of 347 sheep in nine hours, didn’t mention that the
tallies of his (Vella’s) boardmates were 304 (J.
Queenan) and 303 (J. Hullena). These scores
added to \cllas lift the world’s top aggregate for
three pluggers to 954.
* * * #
Dolmanae”: Did somebody open his
mouth about a big fish? Let me close it. During
the last drought the King and Ovens (Vic.) rivers
became a mere succession of muddy waterholes and
the Wangaratta water-supply was in danger of
becoming a nternary. A centrifugal pump was got
to work and the holes emptied by way of a line cf
piping into the town reservoir. When the largest
hole was nearly empty the father of all Murray cods
became visible. When hauled up and weighed he
ran the scales to 1761 b.
THERE were drovers in those days.
“One summer I took a mob o’ bullocks from the Gulf to Warialda an' never lost a
hoof .
“Why not! One winter I took a swarm of bees from Rourke to Parramatta an ’
did't lose a wing.”
Black Bonnet’ : A word about green
ants, mentioned by “Bill Bowyang” (B. 6/3/T9).
On the Bloomfield (N.Q.) these insects build an oval
nest from the leaves of the tree in which it is
bung, cunningly joined together by an inner white
fibn or web. I have seen these nests as large as a big
pineapple. The gins usually ’ktrip before climbing
after a nest and cut or break the twig from which
it depends, letting it fall into some receptacle.
Descending they stroke the ants which swarm over
their bodies, while the ladies shriek and chatter
as the insects bite and tickle them. It is a funny
sight. They cat the ants, adding, if procurable, (he
comb of the native honey—young bees and all-
mixed in a trough made of ti-tree bark tied together
at each end. For variety the blacks add water and
take the decoction as a kind of porridge. They
drink a lotion made of green ants only as medicine,
i questioned a boy who was taking a nest from one
of my mango-trees. lie said: “Old man alonga
camp close up die; niakem tea, makem better.”
“Bookworm” : “The driver told me, seeing
some kites flying about, that it is most curious the
way small birds build in a kite’s nest. He has seen
as many as eight small birds’ nests under a kite's
nest. They do it for protection. The kite cannot
get at them underneath his big nest, and his being
there prevents other birds from touching them.”
Ibis is the wife of Gov.-General Tennyson writing
to her mother in England (letter published in a
just-out biography of her son killed in the war)
about her strange experiences in Australia. Is
there anything in it, or was the driver—from Over-
land Corner on the Murray to Lake Bonney (S.A.) —
pulling her Ladyship’s leg?
* * * *
“Do Oriel”: Just a line to say that
Mrs. Bear’s magpie, of the pub at Yarrogan, has
celebrated her 14th birthday. Maggie built a nest
recently, mostly of wire, string and “shavings.”
She would wait patiently in the barber’s shop while
a customer had his’ hair cut or beard trimmed.
Then after slyly stealing the fallen hair she would
retire. Ihe nest was a picture: all sorts of human
hair from red to grey made the lining cosy. She
sat for some weeks upon her three eggs, but, being a
single bird, finally retired in disgust.
“Hay”: When Binghi of Centralia con-
sidered that a dry spell had lasted lorrg enough
(which was when his supplies of green food failed)
he grew very discontented with his lot and took
steps to secure the necessary moisture, honestly
believing in-the efficacy of his mystic charms. He
first procured a “rain stone.” His name for stone
is carnoo ’ and for thunder “carndoo,” and a quartz
stone was used to represent thunder and lightning,
because quartz stones emit sparks (“koonika,” or
fire) when struck. This rain stone rvas wound up
in some of the blackfellow’s hair and moistened
with some of his blood so as to let the spirits know
that his very existence depended upon an adequate
water supply. When the stone was ready the old
men began an incantation, during which the facts
of the case were laid before the weather gods.
Then the stone was solemnly buried in the earth,
but not too deeply, because if the charm failed to
work it would have to be resurrected for another
trial at a more favorable moment. However, the
appeal didn t often fail. Binghi was too good a
judge of weather possibilities, and when black
brother and sister were seen to hurry on the build-
ing of their rain shelters or japparas it was time
to expect some damp weather.
“Mac”: Big Tom, a Westralian abo. on
the station, had got into trouble, and, despite his
earnest denial of being to blame, the boss refused to
believe him. Suddenly Tom dived his fist into a
pocket in his pants, pulled out a box of matches, lit
one and said: “S’elp mine 24 piurry Chinamen, boss,
baal me tell urn lie!” Then he blew out the match.
THE PEACEMAKER.
LADY: “So you wish me to decide an argument you're having with your wife. Very well.
What’s it all about?”
BINGIU : "Lizzie she say you too stingy, no gibbit poor blackitphella tickapen. I callit
’er plenty big liar, an’ come alonga you, missus, to prove it.”
“Goonah, Goonah”: In the Proserpine
(Q.) district 1 have come on alligators making over-
land from lagoons on the plains to the nearest creek,
it is hard to say which was most frightened, out
horses or the ’gator, waddling frantically for safety,
helped on by the cracking of our stockwhips. .1
shot one in a lagoon far distant from a creek, but
failed to get him ; long after, when a bush fire had
burnt the grass away, I found his remains within
100 yards of the water. Billy Waite, the noted
buck,jump rider, who is a native of the Proserpine
country and was a deadly shot, exterminated numbers
of the saurians, some of them away from water. I
have shot them both in and out of the water. I
have also poisoned numbers—have seen them, when
the poison was acting, tearing up and down, lashing
the water into foam, but have never heard them
emit any noise or sound except the snapping of their
;aws together. I’ve also taken their eggs from
dozens of nests, close to the water’s edge, but have
not seen them put in an appearance to protest,
although the blacks have assured me that they have
known them do so. Of all unpleasant jobs skinning
the defunct ’gator in the summer months takes the
confectionery,
* * * *
“Francis Campbell”: Tim Brown, a 6ft.
negro, adopted as his hobby the dodging of the
“income-tax fellow.” Otherwise he was the soul
of honesty. He was the father of a numerous
family (as a matter of fact he was counting the tally
on his toes, fingers being insufficient). All his
pay dockets were carefully kept in routine order,
and when the time for income-tax payment became
due, Tim would load himself up with them and
deposit them with the specialist who had compiled
his returns since he came under the system. When
the return was completed it would be delivered in
person at the Commissioner’s office. Tim’s hobbv
was well known to the receiving clerks, and it was
each year put to him that it would be necessary to
reduce the seven exemptions as under age to six in
the ensuing return. Tim would smilingly thank the
clerk foi the advice and depart. A few weeks ago
the nigger came to work beaming, and continued to
chuckle till knock-off time, when he disclosed the
cause of his noise: “I heat that dam’ income-tax
fellow,” he said. “The missus and me count it up
last night and, by crumbs! we just win by a nose.”
‘Centurion”: “Gypo” asks what the lung
disease is that kills horses on sea-voyages. Pneu-
monia or pleuro-pneumonia, which, once started, is
very infectious and hard to stop. The best-built
horse-decks are inclined to be draughtv, and the
disease is as apt to break out in hot weather as in
cold and wet, though it is most to be feared when
a squally day follows on a hot snap. The only
remedy is warmth and careful nursing, with a little
judicious dosing. Another curse is influenza, but
this gets going from infected eases, which have been
carelessly allowed on board, or through other chan-
nels of infection, caused by failure to disinfect
stalls, head-collars, feed-boxes, etc.
“Ivobbi”: “Melos” (B. 13/3/T9), giving
some eid hints on snakebite, omits two oi' three
important points. First, a ligature should be
applied above elbow or knee—that is, where there is
one bone and not two—in order to arrest circula-
tion. Also, see that the ligature is loosened for
two or three minutes after it has been in place lor
half an hour; and again at the end of the next
half-hour. Otherwise the lig. may do as much harm
as good. hMelos” refers to banana-stalk juice as
a counter to the poison of the serpent and suggests
it as “worth looking into.” I saw the remedy
applied to a dog which a very venomous snake had
bitten at Gracemere (Q.). The mongrel is still
3 aiding up fleas at the old address. The banana-
stalk would get a wider trial if most folk didn’t pin
their faith and mine with it—to the permanganate-
of-potash cure. One is more likely to have that on his
mantelshelf than a banana-stalk and its sap. Finally,
when you incise the cut to rub in the potasTT solu-
tion, see that you do the job thoroughly. It may-
be necessary in extreme cases to stab down nearly
half an inch.
* * * *
Sneli : The subject was gratitude in
dogs. Mcßurney, who had as many dogs as he could
provide for, all rescues plucked out of some state of
diie adversity, contended that he had never done a
flog a good turn without, sooner or later, receiving
his quid pro quo from the befriended tyke. Benson
chipped in with a snort of derision. “Ah, whatcher
gi'in us? Look at that!” He displayed a
mangled thumb. “Hovvjer think I got that? 1
picked up a dorg what ’ad bin run over be the mill.
n I fixed him up best I could, ’n’ when it was all
done damned if the little eow didn’ fasten on me
thumb.” But Mcßurney was ready. “I know,” said
he. “That was a Scotch terrier. Never look for
a return from a Scotch terrier. I once saved a
Scotch terrier from a bag in which a bloke was
drowndin’ him. Nex’ day he stole a link of
sausages from the butcher’s at Witchapee, ’n’ left ’em
on niv table. On second thoughts he took the
sausages away, chewed the meat out of them, ’n’ gave
me the bags. Don’t blame the terriers. That ain’t
due to them bein dogs; it’s all on account of their
bein’ Scotch.”
*’* ♦ *
“Gouger”: A little-known vegetable is the
sea-tree. It grows under water along parts of the
Barrier Reef. The largest I have seen was 12ft.
long) with a stem 2in. thick. It had grotesque-look-
ing branches, and was very supple, swa3’ing with
the strong current. I grasped it, to find it in-
stantly turn to steel. A steam-winch would not
have pulled that tree from its coral bed. The only
wav to detach this peculiar wood from the coral is
to hit it sharply when it isn’t looking. The stick
then snaps off. The wood is ebony-black, and is
much prized by the island folk, who carve it into
rings and brooches and knife-handles. They have
a superstition that the wearer of a sea-Vood ring
will never be attacked by cramp.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE SIMILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At .Mother Carter’s flaring new
Tent boarding-house above the flat,
M here navvies fierce were rooting through
'lo lay the line to Barrengat,
M e had as hard a boozing set
As any you have ever met.
bong Tim took rum, a local brew
At Harr’s unlicensed crib retailed.
Twould burn a jagged opening through
An iron safe. Tim never failed
When he had drained his dose to say:
“It’s just like mother’s-milk to-day 1”
Fink's taste was all for whisky straight—■
“As smooth and soft as milk,” said he.
Dan called for brandy. “ ’Struth ! it’s great.
Coes, down so sweetly it might be
Imesh milk, lie said. And all the crew
Said much the same, each of his brew.
Then on a Saturday arose
A frightful din at Barr's caboose.
They wrecked his place, and broke his nose.
Drained dry by shearers on the loose,
Poor Barr had offered Tim, and Fink,
And Bill, and Danny milk to drink!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
quality and touch.
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for liot climates.
Stands in tune for very long; periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
GRAMOPHONES.
PALING’S
for PIANOS and
PLAYER PIANOS.
Most people judge a Piano by its case, but there is
more in a Piano than a Piano Case. Pure tone-
quality and perfect touch are what you should look
for in purchasing a Piano or Player Piano. Buy
one of Paling’s Pianos and you make no mistake.
Piano or Player Piano
Catalogues post free.
Have a Piano in your home that will be a help to
the children in their study of beautiful music—a
Piano that will never disappoint you; an instru-
ment that is honestly and faithfully built throughout,
one of Paling’s Pianos. Remember, we Guarantee
Satisfaction.
EASY TERMS, IF REQUIRED.
PALING’S
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE,
TOOWOOnBA,
NEWCASTLE,
LISMORE.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
SHUT —In position to be played by
hand.
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
The banislier of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument* which
everyone ean play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
ESTEY ORGANS
FOR PUMPING WATER
Some Attractive Combinations
. As a result of several years’ experience in supplying farms and stations with
pumping outfits, not only for pumping water but for general utility work, we have
devised various combinations which are known throughout Australia for thoroughly
practical featuies and satisfactory service. The various outfits are so constructed that
the engines (when not needed for pumping) can be detached instantly and put to other
work, such as chaff-cutting, wood-sawing, sheep-shearing, etc.
Giant Pumping Outfit
illustrated in the lower right-hand corner, has been especially constructed for use as a
windmill auxiliary or fitting to a well or bore where there is no windmill. This outfit is
so constructed that the engine can be detached from the pumping plant and taken else-
where when desired for running a small saw-bench, chaffcutter or doing other farm
work of that kind. It consists of a strong high-grade 2-b.h.p. engine, a substantial
all-metal pump-jack with high-grade cut gears, white-metal bearings etc.
J
Price Complete (as illustrated), £47jlOf-
We also supply horizontal sets for pumping from stream or dam where the
water is to be forced a great distance.
We can supply any size pumping plant or any type pumping plant desired.
Write us your requirements and let us quote you an outfit for the job.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd,,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
480 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clark & Fauset Ltd.. Brisbane.
Australasian Implement & H. F. Co., Adelaide.
George P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth, W.A.
W. Hart & Sons, Launceston. Buchanan, Davidson Ltd., Hobart.,
X. Loan and M.A. Co. Ltd., Hughenden, Townsville and Rockhampton.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
ED S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE,
flanufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
Obtainable ail Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents: Mr. J. p. WILSON, Brisbane.
JMr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & lAWKENCE, PERTH.
Mr. W. R. LANGSFORD, ADELAIDE.
'[2
“Billy T.” : He came down the long North-
road in the driving clouds of dust that shone blood-
red when the monstrous sun glowered through.
He carried a swag two sizes too large for him, and
the whiskers of the man were like a 20-guinea fitch
tippet, adding to the heat and weariness of a
dreadful day registering 150 deg. in the wind. lie
limped into Toby’s bar at Scotney, and dropped his
swag. He hooked himself to the counter rather
than leaned on it, and said in a voice muffled with
ground ironstone, and all in one word: “Three-
long-beers-quick-for-the-love-Of-heaven 1” Toby Bone
served the man three pewters, and he took them as
one deft juggler takes plates from another, and
down they went, just like peas rolling down a pipe.
The man heaved a great sigh, wiped the aperture in
his whiskers, and said: “Me Gord, beer’s good!”
Then as Bone laughed aloud he added with quick
suspicion: “It was beer—wasn't it?”
* * * *
“Ceratop”: The magpies in “Wandi’s”
district (B. 13/3/’l9) must be trustful if they
build nests easy to reach. Know an estate, close to
Sydney, where they have been protected for 30
years and have become so bold that in the nesting
season they will attack anyone passing within 100
yards of their tree, yet they build quite 30ft. up,
while in the vicinity of townships where they are
subject to molestation the site chosen is .not only
high but inaccessible.
“Pick”: We were flathead fishing off Wal-
laga bridge, on the gouth Coast (N.S.W.). Along
shore big black cormorants were doing high-diving
feats from the rocks, and the grotesque distortions
of their long necks as they swallowed their catches
showed they were combining business with pleasure.
Then a submarine disturbance was apparent, from the
churned-up seaweed and sand. One of the birds
struggled up, wings bedraggled and neck outstretched,
in a desperate effort to break free from some enemy
below the surface. He fought back with vicious
THE BIG GAME.
RETURNED ANZAC: “I’m ’ ome again, Dad.
The war's all over.”
DAD: “ G’on; who won?”
pecks, and, seizing something with his beak, shook it
violently. Then with a raucous cry he was again
pulled under. As the last swirl of the waters sub-
sided we had a momentary view of the feelers of a
devilfish.
HONOR WHERE HONOR IS DUE.
O’RAZZLE: “Of coursh, aeroplanesh greatest invenshun of Man."
FITZBREWERY: “Hardly shay that, o’ man. Wha ’ about wireles h"
McSOAK: “You both forget (hie) inventor of corkscrew .”
“Kobbi” : Saw the ’possum put to good use
the other day. Pour thickly-furred hides were
tacked around the legs of a kitchen-table to make an
ant-proof fence. About ten thousand of the bush-
residence pests were sitting on the floor, howling
and foaming.
“Gouger” : Here’s another legend of Darn-
ley Island. Long before Adam was sun-bathing in
Lden the two tribes living on the island made up
their minds to place a great bank of earth three
miles out to sea, to induce the fish to hover
around it as a feeding-ground. Two great canoes
built and an enormous slice of ground was
cut out of the scenery. (The inhabitants to-day will
show you the big hollow.)
Representatives of the tribes
got into the canoes, the chunk
of freehold was rested on top
of the gunwales, and the
rowers made for the deep sea.
The rest of the inhabitants
upended themselves on top of
the highest hill, and when
the boats had been pulled a
long way from land the admi-
ral or somebody called out:
“Will this place do?” The
people shouted: “No; go far-
ther out.” The rowers pulled
away again, but a big section
fell from the mound they were
carrying, and it formed the
first sand-spit that now lies
beside Darnley Island. Again
the rowers halted. Again the
people ordered them to go far-
ther out. Then another lump
broke away from the cargo,
and it formed the second sand-
spit which lies off Darnley.
At last the canoes stopped a
long way out, and the mass
meeting ashore decided that
they were far enough. So the
ballast was jettisoned, and
to-day this strip of land is
Bramble Cay on the map. But
a great breeze sprang up, so
strong that the canoes were
overturned, and those crouch-
ing rocks you see on Bramble
Cay are the crew of the first
canoe, while the huge rock
nearly a mile farther out is
what the gods turned the
people of the second into.
“Te Whare” : The common magpie, or pip-
ing-crow, appears to have a homing instinct second
only to that of the cat of song and story. One
maggie, accustomed to fly and feed about a dwelling-
house, was caught, bagged and carried a distance of
about seven miles. She was then released, and next
morning she was back on her customary roost (a
deck-chair on the verandah) clamoring for scraps.
“E.S.S.’ ! : Mr. Cudehewer was a cowman
of some importance in the district, a person whose
doings were chronicled in the BuTterfat Banner.
He had a steam separator, and employed five men,
who had over 200 cows to put through
twice a day. One Sunday morning they
had a race to get done early, and turned
the milkers out at the rate of 18 an hour
per man. After that Mr. Cudchewer used
to come into the yard pretty often to ask
why the goddesses were easier to milk on
Sundays than on week-days. The men ex-
plained they could work faster on a
Sunday as they had a few hours’ rest be-
fore the afternoon’s work, whereas on a
week-day, when not at the bails, they were
among the cane and the corn and the
spuds. Mr. Cudchewer couldn’t compre-
hend that, and pretty soon a new set of
hands were installed, each well primed
with the boss’s views on dairying. A good
man, he explained, could milk 18 cows an
hour without bustling himself. Also the
quantity of milk the last lot obtained was
quoted at several gallons above what they
really got. Mr. Cudchewer drove the sep-
arator engine himself, allowing the milkers
a certain start before he commenced. If
he ran short of milk, then the crowd heard
all over again of the feats and excellent
qualities of its predecessors. One morning
his bluster exasperated two new hands.
One was a bit of a wrestler, and he threw
Mr. Cudchewer into the deepest puddle in
the yard. His mate then lassoed the dairy-
maid and hauled him into the bail and leg-
roped him, while they questioned him as
to whether the other fellows did anything
like that. Then they shook the cowdung
off their heels and departed for fresh paddocks,
leaving the old chap imitating the champion kicker
of the herd and bellowing for assistance.
* * * #
“Tarwin”: If any submarine Abo. knows
the family history of the trevalli, sometimes labelled
silver-bream, perhaps he’ll tell why the fish carries
a crab at the far end of its mouth. If it’s the latest
thing in ornaments better not mention it, or the girls
will start wearing them.
* * » *
“Johnno”: The other day the youngster
knocked his head severely on a stone. Our abo. boy
rushed off to the tank and returned panting with a
pannikin of water, which he dashed on the boulder.
I\hat for you do that one?” I asked. Jacky blew
off indignantly: “White man he tell me before, first
lime, s pose you fall down, hurt vo’ head, you
capsize water on place where you fall, ’im come all
right 1” The explanation satisfied everybody but the
kid.
“Ac”: Any Abo. bird-fancier, who is
troubled by the fact that his canaries, cockies,
butcher-birds, etc., eat their plumage, need worry no
longer. Get about threepennyworth of powdered
magnesia and put as much as will cover a three-
penny-bit between two small thin slices of bread and
butter. Serve this up to the bird every morning,
especially at the beginning of Spring, when the pris-
oners begin to pull out their feathers. Give plenty
green food, such as thistles, etc., and occasionally a
cooked bone. Another simple remedy is to give
the bird a small piece of sheep-kidney fat now and
again during the moulting time, and when the
feathers look dry and the bird is off color.
* * * •
“Baerami” : While making a survey on the
banks of the Nepean (N.S.W.), near Douglas Park,
I came across an old grave at the foot of the high
steep bank of the river, which turned out to be
that of an abo. king of a Menangle tribe. In de-
scribing the funeral procession the oldest inhabi-
tant said that the blacks carrying the corpse took
a very zig-zag course, going sometimes north-
westerly, then south-westerly and occasionally dodg-
ing about in all directions. After taking two days to
make about six miles in a direct line the remains of
his Maj. were planted in this very wild and un-
frequented place. The reason of the round-about
travel was to fool the devil-devil and prevent him
finding the grave.
* * * «
“G.M.S.”: How many sorts of milk have
you tried ? I was travelling with a Dutch official in
Sumatra. We arrived at a native village hungry and
tired. My companion asked the chief man for some
milk for our tea. The native was a long time
absent, but at last he returned with about a cupful.
My Dutch friend casually remarked that milk was
evidently hard to procure. The chief apologised and
courteously explained that unfortunately his wife
had not been able to produce any more.
* * * *
How is this for a close call? A
friend of mine night-fishing for eels hooked a couple
of dozen before he knocked off. He put the lot in a
milk-can, which he half-filled with water, intending
to keep the wrigglers alive till morning; but when
he had a look at them after breakfast only one was
alive, and that was a big, vigorous copperhead snake,
the second deadliest reptile in Victoria! The fisher-
man had hooked it in the creek, unhooked it and
plonked it in the bucket in the dark. Then the snake
must have spent the night slaying the eels.
* * * *
“Will L.”: Except for unworked lignite
deposits, out of which the miners plucked nuggets
of gold, all that remains of the old town of Charles-
ton (M.L.) would not induce a goods train to falter
in its stride; and there isn’t any goods train noar
Charleston. Forty years ago there were 101 hotels
TAKING THE GOOD WITH THE BAD.
HERB: “A cove takes a risk in them airy-
planes. S’pose ’e fell inter the ’arbor?”
STEVE: “Yes; hut s’pose, on th’ other 'and,
he fell inter a brewery?”
there. Now there is one. And directly opposite
is a weary-looking, obsolete pub with the name
“Mary Smith” still on its glass doors. I remember
this because an aged citizen told me of a fight that
occurred there about a thousand years ago—every-
thing is very old at Charleston. When the scrap
started the bar was full, and Mary Smith took the
pugilists by the shoulders and pushed them into a
bedroom to fight it out in the dark. A soft-hearted
miner protested that they would kill themselves.
Judging by the sounds of breaking furniture and
thumps on the wall, that is what they were doing.
So this philanthropist opened the door a crack to
try the effect of pacific words. But a hairy fist
shot out and caught him between the eyes, and he
fell back and slammed the door, roaring: “Fight
and kill yourselves—l don’t care.” That was in
Mary Smith's hotel, at Charleston, donkey’s years
ago. They were just as human then.
THE HAND OF FATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cow had forgotten to close the gate.
It was only this, as I live by bread ;
But that cow’s neglect was the hand of Fate,
For the boy got out and the boy is dead.
An infant was he of tenderest years—
For the sins of the fathers the child shall smart —
And the night of the world was darkened with tears,
While the stars in the heavens shone far apart.
A piteous cry came over the sea
Where the weed on the rocks lay salt and brown;
And an owl aloof on the blasted tree
Blinked at the moon on the hip of the down.
Once and twice came the sob and the cry
(Surely in this was the finger of Fate) ;
Oh, youth is young and a drought is dry—
The cow had forgotten to close the gate 1
K.B.W.
MARY McC.


ibcirgualilies ??6
m
v^g^ics
Cig'arettes of the Highest Class
at Moderate Prices.
CIGARETTES
The quality of these hig'h-class Cigarettes
is exactly the same as before the war,
NO SUBSTITUTE
whatever being used in their manufacture.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333. lOBd.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
4 \
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
A


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
<v<s«A
:s&f.
#y vi v#-fe
t E'K-'tip
JVXW&C^W'
*y(!i
Adi
£2£
Sr
«,K..S
' *
, n'
c K.tNcs<-fy jM'T»f
3g
M'/SS
16
m
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branches at Sydney, N.S.W. & Wellington, N.Z.
are made, must still remain by merit as a
permanent addition to the Australian book-
shelf. Readers may discount the aerial
exploit of Mr. Elijah, the fishing tale of Mr.
Jonah, the impossible war incident of the
of Michmash—-a tale to stand beside
Mr. Kipling's description of the assault on
lmng-tung-pen—but there is enough over to
make us thankful for the whole compilation.
Exception, and serious exception, might be
'taken at the Peace Conference to the pub-
lisher styling himself in the preface “King of
Great Britain, France and Ireland”; but I
have reason to believe that this little touch
of humor is onlv added to lighten a work
otherwise singularly lacking in this respect.
On the whole, The Old Testament is a work
of surpassing interest and an excellent gift
book to send to any literary friend.
D. M. W.
On Romneys and Things
The death of Lord Miehelham a few weeks
ago recalls one of the sensations of the
brilliant London season of 11)13 —the sale at
Christie’s of the Romney full-length portrait
or Lady Pole for £41,1170. Lord Miehelham
was the buyer. There were other sensations
in 1913, one of them the tragic death of the
suffragette .Miss Davison, who upset the
King’s horse in the Derby at Tottenham
corner; another, the record sum of £50,000
paid to a popular actress for breach of pro-
mise. Windsor and “Ivenso” palaces were
closed to the public in those days on account
of the antics of the suffragettes; and every
lady’s bag was opened and searched at the
turnstile of the National Gallery for explo-
sives or hammers or other engines of destruc-
tion. And in spite of all the precautions the
glorious Rokeby Venus, to whose purchase
Lord Miehelham had so largely contributed,
had £lO,OOO chipped off its value by a
suffragette’s chisel.
I attended the famous sale at Christie's on
that June morning in 19115. The rooms in
King-street _ were crowded. Things started
off very quietly, but there was an unforget-
table moment when the auctioneer announced
lhe portrait of Lady Pole, by Romney.”
Bidding, sensational from the ' start, soon
mounted by thousand-pound bids, then by
five hundreds, hung fire, then brisked up
again, until, before you knew where you
were, the hammer descended at £41.370’ to
the representative of Lord Miehelham.
The sale of the Browning love-letters for
over £6OOO was an insignificant episode com-
pared with that.
On the visit of President Poincare to
London the band of the Grenadier Guards
played under the Wellington Arch at Hyde
Park corner, which is surmounted by the
famous Quadriga presented by Lord Mrchel-
nam to the nation. Standing near Lord
Rothschild’s house in Piccadilly amongst the
Coldstreams who lined the route, and almost
under the hooves of the splendid black
chargers of the Household Cavalry which I
had seen in all their glory cavorting over
Windsor Great Park at the grand review, I
noticed a solitary flag flying front the pole
on Apsley House in honor of the entente
cordiale —the tricolor of France. I told a
man in Piccadilly that it was enough to
make the Iron Duke turn in his grave. But
lie knew more than I did, and told me I was
a fool.
L.G.D.
A Satchel of Books
David Blaize and the Blue Door, by E. F. Benson
(Hodder and Stoughton, London). ' David is not
many \ years old, but he has a strange child wisdom
which distinguishes between the real world and the
sleepy world where grown-ups live after the age of
ten. lie finds the blue door under his pillow; and
his adventures in the country beyond are well worth
while. A joyous book with plenty of convincing
nonsense, which the 50-year-old may appreciate even
better than the child of David’s own height.
The Wanderer on a Thousand Hills, by Edith
Wherry (John Lane, London). The plot goes a
bit thin ; but the Chinese color is convincing. The
characters are worth while meeting and the interest
is very well sustained.
The Shilling Soldiers, by Denis Garstin (Hodder
and .Stoughton, London). The author of this war
book, who went under in the big uproar, jumped
into repute with his “Friendly Russia” at a time
when the problem of the Russian revolution meant
more to us than it does to-day. Garstin shows fine
observation and a lot of skill in grouping incident;
anil the style is forceful and quietly convincing.
This is probably one of the few soldier books that
will live, because its interest does not turn on a rela-
tion of facts but on its inherent literary qualities.
Her Grace of Grub Street, by G. V. MeFadden
(John Lane, London). A wretchedly-written book,
poor in style and unconvincing in atmosphere, but
with a pretentious plot. The time is that of
Horace Walpole; the place a literary Bohemia that
never existed. Thin melodrama.
Blood Tide, by Daniel Chase (Macmillan, New
York). A New England boy has dreams and aspira-
tions, but is forced by circumstances into a distaste-
ful business career. Tn this he succeeds, fails after
success ; and out of failure he finds his own soul as
a painter. The writer’s manner is a bit heavy ; but
there is a little of the salt of the sea in the book.
The Great Portrait Mystery, by R. Austin Freeman
(Hodder and Stoughton, London). A collection of
brightly-written mystery stories. The setting is
modern, with an occasional look back to historical
.events. Aot a bad book to read on a railway
journey.
His Job, by Horace Bleackley (John Lane). The
boy who has played cricket almost up to countv
form enters the works to learn the business which
his family has carried on for five generations. The
factory is in Lancashire, and the rough but loval
workers are skilfully drawn. A well-written book
showing the sticking power of the English manufac-
turing tradition.
His Second Wife, by Ernest Boole (Macmillan,
New \ork). .Joe had a first wife. Ethel, his
second, is the sister of the previous pne under whose
influence he had been rather demoralised. So he
is pulled back to better things, in spite of his
loving memory of the dear but only middling de-
ceased. Ihe yarn doesn’t make very gay reading.
Land of Memory, by M. A. Robertson (The Book-
fellow, Sydney). This little book with its pre-
face by ‘A.G.S.” is worth while. The verses are
not great, nor are very many of them memorable, but
there is sincerity, deep feeling and occasionally a
flash of color.
The Rise of a Star, by Edith Avrton Zangwill
(John Murray, T.ondon). A brightly-written yarn
01 American society and the stage. The million-
aire’s daughter with a feeling for the footlights in
her blood is cast out and rises through poverty and
struggle to the dazzling height of being the most
strenuously photographed.
Oh, Money! Money! by Eleanor H. Porter (Con-
stable, London). A readable yarn of the millionaire
who tried to test his poor relations with a little cash
before handing over his hoard. Going among them
disguised he made himself at home in the New
England village and found a wife.
,J' h . e . Dales °f Arcad H, by Dorothy Una Ratcliffe
(Erskine MacDonald, London). A book of verse
of no remarkable quality. Here and there the
fancies please and there is some of the color of a
part of England described as “Daleshire.” The verse
plods and seldom sings.
Cobbers of Mine, by The Axeman (Telegraph,
Meekatharra). The author says his verses are
rough-hewn jingles.” That sums them up prettv
accuiately. The workmanship is hardly good enough
to make the subjects interesting.
Margaret Postgate’s Poems (George Allen and
Unwin, London). There is a certain cleverness in
this little book, but hardly a grain of poetry. The
author has not the knack of verse-making; and she
does not seem to have the feeling for song,
tr Natural Law v. Socialistic Nonsense, by ex-Sergeant
11. Scrimshaw. This is a small publication dealing,
in short chapters, with such subjects as “Prehistoric
and Modern Man,” “Equal Life,” “Political
Economy, “Money and Banks,” etc. The conclu-
sions arrived at are reasonable enough, as a rule, but
they are very old conclusions and supported by no
new evidence. Still, it is a valuable summary for
Diggers who want to do some new thinking
(Deaton and Spencer, Sydney, publishers.)
The Inky Way
“Lot’s Wife”: The N. S. Wales Society
or \y omen Painters, just beginning a second
me in new club rooms, seems chiefly anxious
to secure associate members. That’s one way
ot looking after the funds, but it doesn’t
make the association attractive to profes-
sionals. Several years ago, when the society
started, some of the better-known painting
people preferred keeping away from its shel-
ter to submitting to amateur government,
it would be just as well if the society re-
inembered this when it chooses its governing
body.
“Ornis”: “ Wealsman” (B. 13/3/T9), who
heaved a. brick at the Hobart Carnegie
-Library, might have cast a bouquet at the
Launceston Mechanics’ Institute and Public
Hibrary. It never received any money from
Carnegie, and the Speck Government doles it
out a paltry £l5O per annum, yet it manages
to support a librarian and two assistants, all
alive, has. a steadily-growing reference sec-
tion, and its shelves are constantly receiving
consignments of the latest literature, fiction
and otherwise. During the financial year
just ended £317 was spent on books and
periodicals and £99 on etceteras. The real
reason for the difference between the Hobart
bookery. which is stagnant and the northern
one which goes ahead lies, I think, in the
tact that one is free and the other is sup-
ported by subscribing members who demand
the best. ,
Wanted—information about one William
Nathan Stedman, a gentleman whom Solo-
mon Eagle of the New Statesman believes
to be now living in Australia. He cer-
tainly ought to be in “Johns’.” He refused,
so he says, the offer of the laureateship after
lennyson’s death, “though made with the
otter of a Premier’s daughter and £30,000.”
(\\ Inch Premier? If Gladstone, the refusal
may have been due to the bride’s kinship;
tor Gladstone, according to Nathan, was “a
protoplasm from the abyss of nowhere.”
Even a Laureate might shy at a protoplasm
—who was also, by-the-by, the Beast of
Kevelation—for a father-in-law). Sted-
man admired tor maybe admires) Marie
Corelli; but he explains this, unconsciously,
bv admitting to a “head more soft than eider-
down. Marie’s critics, being “bullbrowed”
and bastards at that, are also accounted for.
Will Lawson visits the M.L. West Coast:
At iny first port of call a big, black-moustached
man who sat on a small barrel looked me square in
the eyes and said: “Now tell us some of your funny
stunts; tell us about the bloke going through the
churchyard with the lid of his hat flapping.” “This
ain t Harry: this is Bill,” another giant explained.
Oh! ell! said Black Whiskers; “have a drink.
Heies to you, brother.” “I’m damn sorry you aren’t
Harry Lawson,” a citizen of Reefton said “I’d like
to shake hands with the man who wrote ‘My Father’s
Mate.’ ” It was no use saying that I was as sorry
as he was; he simply insisted on my having two
drinks—one for myself and one for my brother.
“He’s not my brother,” I said for the 583rd time
since 1 left Karamea. “Then he ought to be. Have
another!” So we toasted Harry Lawson again. I
drank Harry’s share and my own right down the
coast; and on his behalf and my own received the
fieedom of all the cities from Murchison and West-
-okarito and Okura. I was able to catch
the Otira express and stagger home across the moun-
tains after the chief expressman of Greymouth had
nssed me and given me a morning paper, and told
me he knew me long ago when I was painting the
ceiling of a pub in Castlemaine.
GHwn'vFr'Tv 1 • "; her >, the Cornwall
Chronicle, Johnnie lawkner’s old paper,
then the oldest paper iu Australia, was
bought up by the Examiner in 1880, Laun-
iTci° n \r 0r u whl i? had onl - v ou « paper. In
Barnes and Stephens came
within th t i' e ■ rELEG F APa twice a week, but
pFlf and “? aths the paper Passed to
Rr ckhiH B ” ck ! 1111 ’ and Anally to James
KnckhiH’ who increased the size and pub-
lished tri-weekly. At this time George Nixon
PmyTCTr"f h ° .leered the Cornwall
Chronicle for the best part of 30 years.
• l's C t hp 6 T)a tt°v 't In 1883 the sheet was issued
as the Daily Telegraph. a little later it
k** f* , eW-tte first jeU
I apei m the Speck — and was claimed to
have double the circulation of anv other
wrapper on the island. At one time it was
Fred d edited TO th richard > while his brother
lied edited the Examiner. The two bom-
! )ai ' de<l each other from opposite sides of Tat-
ei son-street. Bnckhill lost the Telegraph
“W to T? eeh i n ’ Tj ere he was secretary
of the town Board. He ran Kink O’Malley
withm 12 votes for the Darwin seat iii
Federal Parliament. W. A. Whitaker, who
was running . a little paper at Latrobe,
became proprietor, and Tom Prichard lost
nis job tor writing disrespectfully of Wil-
A lart ’ s brains, or trousers,' or both.
(Anything belonging to William Hart was
considered sacred in Launceston in those
days.) Twelve months ago there were
hi eakers ahead, and now the whole show is
up for sale by tender.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“D.F.”: The first “Parramatta” oranges
probably came from three trees planted at
Baulkham Mills in 1800 by George Suttor,
ancestor of the Suttor family. George was
a protege of Sir Joseph Banks and in the
gardening line.
“Lot’s Wife”: In the matter of the toy
industry, Japan deserves credit for being
awake. But—well, I go to church on Sun-
days, and don’t like to see the Scriptures
perverted. Last week one of Sydney’s shops
exhibited Noah’s Arks in which the patri-
arch’s family wore Japanese kimonos, and I
was always taught that the Holy Land was
Palestine.
* * * »
Great is the struggle for the unproductive
job. The house-agency man doesn’t make
two blades of grass or two ships or two
boilers grow in place of one, but there is
money in the business. Now it is complained
in Sydney that, tempted by the profits, tram-
way men and civil servants and even parsons
collect rents and trade in houses and land in
their odd moments, and the House Agents’
Union asks that these “scabs” should be
suppressed.
“504”: An ingenious Maorilander is the
sanguine producer of a new type of motor-
engine which, lie asserts, will develop 20
h.p. and push a car 50 miles on a gallon
of petrol ! This performance comes from
an original arrangement of the valves, a
unique form of cylinder and new type of
piston. By means of these an explosion is
obtained at the bottom as well as at the
top of each cylinder, so there is, he con-
tends, no period of peace and quietness for
the piston, no chance for the crank-shaft
to have a loaf, no wasted suction stroke
and no lost power.
* * * •
“Moana”: Reindeer farming threatens to
become a profitable industry in Alaska, when
the present herds total well over 200,000
head. The number is doubling every three
years, and as reindeer meat is coming into
favor in Yankland it looks as if the Eskimo
started on the road to affluence when, encour-
aged by the U.S. Government, he began sys-
tematic breeding less than 20 years ago. A
shipload of the new meat was marketed at
Seattle tin* other day. the result being good
prices and a satisfied populace asking for
more. A prime reindeer yields 1501 b. of
good meat selling at about lOd. per lb., and.
as the animal gets fat on moss, native grass
and snow, it is nearly all profit.
* * * *
“Moana”: You never can tell. Three
years ago the sitka or silver spruce of the
Pacific Slope wasn’t worth cutting down,
being valued by lumbermen at less than £1
per ton; now it is sought after because it
meets the exacting demands of the aero-
plane-builder. This spruce has a habit of
growing perfectly straight and of tapering
very slightly. A good sample will reach
InOft. and have an average diameter of
4Sin. This means that the long wing beams
for the largest air-machine can be cut from
it in one solid piece. In addition, the wood
possesses other recommendations. It is of
long fibre and fine grain, does not warp or
split:, is easily worked, and weighs only
2olb. to the cubic foot. But isn’t there a
timber going to waste somewhere in Aus-
tralia. that can equal sitka?
* * * *
“Yarriambiak”: Any wandering Aussie
who strays into a Strand hairdresserv for a
shave is liable to come out with less than his
tram-fare if he allows the nobleman in
charge to have his way. My formula is
not to allow the lambef-down a chance, so
when I sit in his chair I fire a little speech
at him something like this: “I want a shave
-—understand? Pace herbage mown. I
don’t want my hair trimmed, nor my head
shampooed by either the dry or any other
process. I don’t want any blackheads re-
moved, nor a face massage, nor an electric
brush-up, nor a hot towel with cold cream,
nor a neck shave in the American fashion,
nor a little bay-rhum. And I don’t want
any rubber goods. Now fire away and give
me a shave.” If I can get it all out in one
breath I am usually a winner, but if I break
anywhere I know I am lost and wish I had
left my shirt at home.
* * * *
The wine-growing interests in S. Aus.
have had the happy thought of showing
legislators and those who may influence pub-
lic opinion just what is being done in the
vineyards. South Aus. has 30,000 acres
under vines, and can in a good year make
£BOO,OOO out of them, with five million gal-
lons of wine and tons of dried fruit. The
Vinegrowers’ Assoc, took the Minister of
Agriculture and a large party to Tanunda.
Seppeltstield. Nuriootpa and Yalumba. and
introduced them to the local products. There
was any quantity of speechmaking, gnd
several members of the local Parliament
claimed to have had their eyes opened. The
hosts took the opportunity of putting in a
word against the recent savage increase in
duty on spirit, necessary for making sweet
wine, from Bd. to 6s. One firm claims to
have been paying for some time a cheque
of £2OOO a week to the Customs on this
account alone.
* * * *
“Vic. Unionist”: The Companies Act re-
quires that accounts shall be audited by
accountancy experts; and shareholders are
thus protected against fraud on the part of
directors and employees. But in connection
with labor unions, social and patriotic
organisations, lodges, etc., the auditors
appointed—if any—usually have no other
qualifications than that they seem to be
decent chaps. The amateurs in due course
call on the treasurer, and after glancing
through the books (probably kept in the
treasurer’s own style) for half an hour under
bis guidance, ask the treasurer where they
have to sign, and finally wind-up the proceed-
ings with a drink. It is nice to be sociable,
but this important duty of seeing that trust
moneys are properly accounted for should
not be neglected nor carried out in a hap-
hazard manner. If the Law had a word or
two to say about it, members and subscribers
wouldn’t feel so uneasy when they met the
secretary or treasurer punting at the races.


WHISKY
Whisky— when it is good—is
the embodiment of
PROGRESS and HAPPINESS
Progress IS the result of our endeavour to
justify our existence- It is the essence of life.
The fruits of progress are the legacies of one
generation to another- It is our duty to enjoy
them- Last generation gave us Dewar's
Whisky- Let us shew our appreciation!
Happiness IS mental, not material. It is the
faculty to appreciate, not the faculty to obtain
that means happiness- The happiest man on
earth is the one who succeeds in getting what
he wants and then is able to appreciate it —
like the man who asks for
DEWAR'S WHISKY
gets it and enjoys it- That's happiness!


/X^
8/11 =
l,W //l| , HU »I|IIIH
A. Saunders’ Silver Hunting Keyless Flyback Chronograph,
£7/10/-. Extra jewelled, £8/10/-, £10, £12/10/-.
Solid Gold £17/10/-. 18ct. Gold, extra jewelled, £25, £30.
£35, £40. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Oct. Gold Patent Expanding
Watch AVi'istlet, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £B/10/-. Extra jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Gent.'s High-grade Nickel
and Gunmctal Lever, 25/-. Extra
jewelled, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
AU guaranteed.
GUARANTEED WATCHES.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Black Wristlet Watch, 2U/«,
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-.
Gold, £B, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6.
All Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Patent Lever Wristlet Watch, full luminous dial and
hands, extra-jewelled compensation balance, in leather strap, £2.
Solid Silver, £2/10/-. £3. Gold filled, £4/10/-, Set. Solid
Gold, £6, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Oct. Gold Expanding Watch, full-jewelled
lever movement, compensation balance, £lO. l§£t. Gold.
£l5. Extra jewelled, £l6/10/*
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Plain Elgin or Waltham, lever
movement, £lO. Heavier cases, £l2/10/-. Hct. Gold,
£l5. ISct. Gold, £2O, £25, £3O.
Guaranteed 3, 4 arid S years.
A.- Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Expanding Watch Wristlet,
full-jewelled lever movement, £6/10/-. Others, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-, £6, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Nickel Hunting Lever, extra-quality
movement, 40/-. Solid Silver, £3, £4/10/-,
£5, £6, £7/10/. Gold-filled Elgin or
Waltham, 10-vear Case, £3/5/-. 20-year,
£4/10/-. 25-year, £5/5/-. Solid Gold, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—.
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, B u ilde r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SAVOY HOTEL,
Hay Street, Perth, West Australia.
PERTH’S LEADING HOTEL.
Recommended to Visitors from Eastern States.
Tariffs £>4/4/- per weelt,
12/0 per day.
J. M. QUIGLEY, Manager.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tint by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A usiralasia.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OB OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world-
° rvr* DVDM’O 1
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Leabn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. llow to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made East, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/6 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book, 2/6. Par-
lor Tricks and Games, 1/6. Fortune-Telling
by Cards, 1/9. Life (a book for Men and Women
of To-day), 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/9. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 2/-. How to Make Love, 1/3 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellants (scarce), 15/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 1/-
and 2/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 2/-. Adventures of a Sydney
Barmaid, 1/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 2/-. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6, How
to Mesmerise, 2/-. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, 4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 2/- posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-
posted. Gay Life in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Secrets of Beauty, Health and Long Life
(50,000 sold), 2/- posted. A Bed of Roses, 4/6.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years .
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
Send stamp for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
illustrations, 3/'-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 2/- posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant 2/-. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- lOO New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
nav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing 9/3 Dynamos and Electric Motors) 2/3.
Moorf’s’ Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The SFCRETS of CLAIRVOYANCE, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses 1/3. The
Arp OF REASON, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Rasputin,
fhe Monk of Evil 2/9. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
W ward’s Manual. 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock 2/- Life’s Shop Window, 2/-. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted. The Escaped Nun, 2/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, $7 g $9 Market Street, Sydney (only).
I mrBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*m&


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
, /
V \/
n
bf
W>l
>f
3^
!#’■'
B Sr
n
a
r
v*
1 r V4\
" V
r Y r^/i'
)V
C&rfe
1
3f
#2
//
Z
■&
?A
V*
r
m
'* /P i * _
lyy^ 1
sa
/,.■
I hJ
•*»»
«1 ! if.
-&W
wB
If
.f.“s:y
;? ‘ft
o.
18 r
s>s
Cl
%
vpr
W:
££
•F
rvt
a
V
\
llli
’*'>A I <rt fcl'ti *mJU ' *'
H
wsa
v -.,, ;
Sleeps*
Mia
SSsPKS
-wr I '<?*•*?> YS.i.f , ii il**i/' , fi-
w
SKSaSKfS
««
gSfcS
U#»
F:
ml
y-.r -
WMwm.
i ■
MM
*
m$ m», *
?»s»p. <
<F
■ I
*33
I
Ml
m
m
pmmMim
■ -
m
»>
‘■' •»- y- ■■■ ■' *^y»jf«o»>>t»Jigj»-)f
m
i <'**»t''S«*3 >*»• flsi I
* * afeail'
PI
Usas/w'
if763W'i ,,, r .»^aiays?«cfw.*
• V^-
««*»
( X^iiiw' , «i»iwAiw>»»^«'
■-scT*^
iSffigggs&fea
mMiii«#i | l. wwl ,
jf^WSE
<■ O*
o
i(
Cobra,” Boot PoUsh
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Acts the crave
Schoolmaster, too.
H ere are soldiers
All agog
o o
Watching Bear
Crib sums from Dog.
Chunder smiling
Once again
Steals behind them
With the cane.
“You can stay in,
Bear, to-day.
■“That is not the
‘COBRA’ way!”


£32 10 0
£l4 10 0
£25
£l3 10 0
£l5
£l3 10 0
The Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
Stewart Dawson’s lO Establishments
are daily devoting their energies to provide their elientc
with the World’s*’Finest Valles in Previous S?lnS
INSIST ON QUALITY.
SeS’S SS 5 Z B1^? .
theiyntriDMC character, diffusing that light and lustre known onlytaDiSdsSS
and SeMoXfthSlt
. ... . AhL DIAMONDS SET IX REAL PLATINUM.
-a' start sas wssm a-sa-s-aas-i-
Stewart Dawson & Co.<a««u Ltd.
£6 10 0
£lO
£l2 10 0
£l3 10 0
£25
£32 10 0
LONDON
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Nemo”: An Irish national concert on St.
Patrick’s Day at Launceston (Tas.) had a
bit of distinction in the fact that the band
which played for it is the oldest in Austral-
asia. It was founded in the forties of last
century in connection with St. Joseph’s
Catholic Church in that city.
“Busk”: I feel most for Bailey and Grant,
who are just making their way. “Hello,
Everybody,” was £3OOO on the wrong side
when it was blacked out. Apart from the
cost of the epidemic, scenery and costumes
are high in price—canvas is up to ss. 9d. a
yard; dresses for the chorus from £7 10s. to
£l2; for principals, from £25 to £4O; and
fares —well, bring the step-ladder.
“75”: Bert Bailey leaves for England
shortly to spy out the land with a view to
introducing John Bull to “On Our Selec-
tion.” He and Jules Grant had offers from
England in regard to the Steele Rudd play
both before and during the war, and visiting
performers, including Harry Lauder, have
opined that English audiences, especially in
the provinces, would be likely to take a
fancy to Dad, Mum, Dave and co. Should
he decide on an English production, Bailey
will send for several of the mummers who
made the leading characters things of joy in
Australia.
Harry Roberts proposes to go to the
U.S.A. after he has seen everything O.K.
with the “Struck Oil” picture which he and
his wife, Maggie Moore, have been working
on. It isn’t Roberts’s first venture that
way, of course. Some years back he played
front-rank characters under Belasco.
“Exile”: David Belasco’s production of
“Tiger, Tiger,” is the frankest thing showing
here in N’York, and is running to enormous
houses; seats are booked weeks ahead. It is
the story of a perfectly normal and conven-
tional young member of Parliament whom
the opening of the play finds discussing
marriage very frankly with the charming
and modern Evelyn Greer. His family in-
tends her to be his wife. They both declare
that they are pre-ordained celibates. The
young man is inclined to think that there
can be no feeling between the sexes but
friendship. The girl is disinclined to marry
on this basis, assuring him that some day
some girl will awaken in him the tiger that
lurks in every man. He then upsets all his
carefully-thought-out theories by bringing to
his rooms a frightened little person whom he
has met under a lamp-post, and what The art
of. the beautifully-upholstered Evelyn has
failed to do in years is accomplished by a
single glance from this child of nature, who
is a cook. For two years she is his mis-
tress. They finally part because she won’t
allow him to se.t her up in an establishment,
as her moral scruples don’t permit of her
taking anything from him, and he can no
longer be satisfied with only seeing her on
her night off—which is Tuesday. William
Hohenzollern’s row settles the tangle, which
has been further complicated by Evelyn
butting in with a belated love-interest in the
young gent. He goes to the war, and stops
a bullet in time for the audience to get away
for a snack. Frances Starr gives a wonder-
ful portrait of the little cook involved in a
great passion beyond her understanding and
struggling to cling to her ideals of respecta-
bility. Sydney girl Dorothy Gumming is the
handsome and frocky Evelyn.
“Private Boxer’’: The pit, looked upon by
old stagers as the backbone of the play-
house, is disappearing in London. The
American musical-comedy “Oh, Joy!” (it
was “Oh, Boy!” in Australia) was recently
staged at the Kingsway. If ever a play
wanted a backbone that one did. But the
pit-ites had to seek accommodation in other
parts of the house, for the whole of the
floor was taken up with stalls, for which
the increased price of 15s. each was charged.
That sort of thing suggests the conditions
which make Bolshevism possible.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos George Coppin (B.
10/4/T9). The old comedian invested
the £5O per night which he earned at
the Victoria Theatre in 1844 in the
Clown Tavern. This stood right oppo-
site the theatre, which was on the
McCathie site of to-day. He took the pub
over from William Dind (“Old Bill”), who
immediately opened the Star and Garter on
the ouposite of the road, a few aoors north
of the theatre. Coppin lost all his savings
in this first attempt to play the part of Boni-
face.
“Andrew Ralph”: Like “Bad Man” (B.
3/4/T9) I have an eye for shapely female
loveliness, and in my opinion the slender
limbs of the principals of the Rigo Opera
Co. are a pleasant change from the plump
and suety prima donnas of the past. We
have seen too many imported corpulent
Mimis, Rigolettos and Violettas, etc., whose
figures suggested neither youth nor phthisis.
Felice Lyne was an exception. Many a
weigh-bridge menace has gazed into a mirror
in the last act of “La Traviata,” panting
“How frail and thin I look! I am fading
to a shadow!” The heroines of the Rigo
Co. are very true to youth. Perhaps in an-
other 20 years they’ll have to be backed up
to the wings in a tip-dray; but I’ll be dead
by then, thank God!
“O’Smith”: Went into a shop the other
day in Geelong, and asked the youth behind
the counter if he had any Scotch pictures.
“Weil,” he said, “there’s one here that ought
to suit you—the ‘Captivity of Andrew
Mack.’ ” _ “All /right,” I said, “let’s have a
look at it.” I looked at him with dis-
oppointment—to say nothing of pained sur-
prise—when he hauled out Leighton’s
“Andromache in Captivity.”
“Black-out”: I agree with “Stargazer” (B.
20/3/T9) that “talking pictures” will never
be a success. Some years ago a fearful and
wonderful machine was inflicted upon Aus-
tralian audiences. It was a combination of
a bio. and gramophone, the two parts being
synchronised, and we saw and heard Harry
Lauder sing “Just a Wee Deoch an’ Doris.”
It was horrible.
. “Ibsenshaw”: We have no theatrical critics
in this country. They manage things better
in U.S.A. A Chicago print recently re-
marked. of the . heavy lady of a first-class
dramatic combination: “She played the
jealous wife" with the ferocity of a parboiled
hyaena.” That’s the sort of stuff to stimu-
late the phagocytes.
RENOVATED.
THE GIRL : “Who was that new girl you had
at the theatre last night?”
THE MAN: “That wasn't a nev; one. That
was only the old one repainted.”
« XT u n.» „
: Alfred Dampier was more
superstitious even than most actors. He
would almost faint if an umbrella w T as
opened in the theatre. A carpet-bag was a
J)ct€ Tioivs * o.nd if anvonp hnrl n foe
tened with a black pin or blackXXd ff
hurt Xe olcf man wS ?han
Nobody dared to sing or whistle Locke’s
music for “Macbeth” within the theatre. If
a deadhead came in on the nod before actual
cash had been taken at the door, Dampier
was convinced that he wouldn’t take exes,
that night. As for speaking the tag at
rehearsal —well, no actor will do that, and
Dampier w T ould have writhed if anyone of
his co. had attempted it.
“Friendly Enemies,” the very Yankee spy
play that was seen in Australia awhile ago,
has found its way to London Haymarket,
one of the first of England’s comedy houses.
The piece has been re-chris-
tened “Uncle Sam,” and the
company—all from Uncle’s
country—got a valuable ad. in
advance by rehearsing daily on
the liner that took them from
N’Yarlt to Liverpool.
“S.S.S.”: You who don’t
move out beyond your suburban
street can never know what the
gramophone has done for the
lonely places of the world. We
had walked five miles up the
bed of a mountain creek to the
Pryke brothers’ gold claim. I
had a more than usual share of
scrub-itch, and mosquitoes were
out in battalions. Also, it was
hot; and the evening storm was
starting. Suddenly out of the
silence there rose above the
mountain-tops an exquisite sing-
ing. As we listened it seemed
to me to be Melba’s incompar-
able Jewel Song. “Am I
dead?” I asked the courteous
young patrol-officer—now, alas,
lying w T ith so many splendid
comrades of the Papuan ser-
vice in Belgium. He told me
then how these fine Pryke
brothers, who are amongst the
real pioneers of Papua, having
found much good gold, had gone
to England. Whilst there they
had bought the best gramophone they could
get, with all the good records, and had
brought it back to cheer them in their
solitude.
‘.‘o. Ockney” : The latest theatrical trades-
union in London is the Dramatists’. The
president is the man who wrote “The Morals
ot' Marcus.” So when the trouble happens
it will be a Locke-out.
“Glen H.”: There is only one female
character of importance in “The Doctor’s
Dilemma,” the first of the Taits’ “literary”
productions in Melbourne. Shaw once ex-
plained that he kept the skirt out of his
plays to give the men a chance to do some
talking.
“Melb” : Darrell in his play, “The Forlorn
Hope,” outlined a war in which Australia
went to England’s help. “Very absurd,”
said most of the critics. Sam Winter,
of Melbourne Herald, had a different view.
“Tremendous idea,” he wrote; “and it will
come!”
Andi'6 Messager, composer of “Veronique”
and “Little Michus,” is responsible
for the score of the long-talked-of
musical version of “Monsieur
Beaucaire,” which has just been
put on in Manchester. Messager
(leader of the Conservatoire orches-
tra in Paris and ex-director of the
Grand Opera in that city) was in
the conductor’s chair on the first
night.
“Orb”: When Bland Holt pro-
duced “Master and Man” many
years ago, his bulldog Beelzebub
used to grab one of the characters
by the seat of war every evening.
People marvelled at Beelzebub’s
perfect training. It was Arthur
Shave, Holt’s property master, who
managed the performance. A rat
was sewn into the actor’s coat-tail
every night before he went on, and
Beelzebub enthusiastically did the
rest.
Yak : George Alexander believed in the
soft answer that turneth away the unsuitable
play. This was one of his stock tabs to
rejected script:—
My Dear Sir, —I have read your play. My dear,
dear Sir! —Yours truly, George Alexander.
“L.11.P.”: P. T. Barnum, the American
showman, is one of the characters in “May-
time.” On September 9, 1918, “Mr. Bar-
num,” a comedy in four acts, was produced
nt JNew York Criterion and proved very
entertaining. Barnum was played by Tom
Wise, one of the authors. The action
covered the period when Barnum was a
rather obscure manager playing the Missis-
sippi River towns and up to the time he
retrieved his fortune by exploiting Jenny
Lind. Frances Nielson was the Swedish
JMghtingale and Herbert Rice was Tom
.thumb. But the play has merely an Ameri-
can appeal and would not hit Australians.
Stargazer ’: .He was a good actor as
actors go, but his finish, so far as this coun-
try was concerned, came about when, after
persistently appearing at rehearsals in a eon-
dition of alcoholic excitement, he finally took
the stage on the opening night of “The Big
Stiff,” to all appearances a calm, collected
and accomplished artist. Horace Budd wnts
to play the part of an elegant if humble
young American person beguiled temporarily
from the right path into picturesque villainy
and ornate vice by an inherited craving for
money to buy the complicated refreshments
of the millionaire class. Horace fluttered on
THE EXPERT.
THE MODEL : “But what is this ‘camou-
flage’?”
THE ARTIST : “Well — er—they paint things .
y' know, an’ mix the colors all up so
that your eye gets confused and can’t
tell what it is.”
THE MODEL : “Oh, it’s French for Art, is it?”
all right, and possessed himself of the spot
allotted to him in the limelight, but instead
of saying: “Oh, gee, but here’s a glum lot
of guys! Ain’t there one of you to thrust
the glad hand to a prodigal?” he strung him-
self out in an elegant attitude and said:
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
The tender leaves of hope, to-morrow blossoms,
And bears his blushing honors thick upon him
The play had practically suspended business,
the voice of the prompter was loud in the
land, the manager was developing a sort of
bounding madness. Said Budd, after taking
another pose: .
To be or not to be, that is the question.
Whether it is better in the mind to suffer
the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
The prompter’s head came into view, yelling
the choicest Americanisms at Horace, who
merely corrected his angle and said :
So may the outward shows be least themselves;
I lie world is still deceived with ornament •
Then the curtain fell with a crash, and
Horace was dragged from the stage, observ-
ing in sugary accents:
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
No nightingale. Look, love
Horace’s part was played that night by a
scared youth who never moved 2ft. from the
hoarse prompter. Horace looked sadly at
his enemies as they ejected him and said:
“There’s no pleasing you fellows! What do
you want me to play?”
Australian Y.M.C.A. has had the Ald-
wych Theatre as a centrally-situated London
headquarters. The end of its occupation
being in sight, Charles Cochran—already
boss of a whole batch of houses—is sitting on
the doorstep, waiting to turn it back into
a home of muscial comedy.
TIME’S EFFACING FINGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At twenty-two he loved a fay
Who frisked in tights upon the stage;
No other maid so sweet and gay
Shed glory on a dismal age.
Her youth, he thought, was like a flower,
New oped at dawn. Her beauty had
A wonderful uplifting power.
A year it made his spirit glad.
At fifty-five the picture he
Once carried on his heart so long
Was found in some deep drawer. She
Had passed with that old, foolish throng.
He gazed upon the portrait there
From which, it seemed, all grace had flown,
And marked the throat, the eyes, the hair.
“Good gad!” said he, “how old she’s grown!”
VICTORIA.
S.S.
FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Follow ma closely in this scene—•
In the lines I’m shaky, rather.”
Thus the boss; and the prompter, new and green,
Who had ne’er in his life been farther
Than the “corner,” said to himself, said he:
“J’U show him I’m worth my wages! ”
The boss strode on to the stage. “To be”
He’d started the big sol-il-o-quee
When a chuckle ran round the cages.
He stopped, insulted. Ho threw a look
Of rage at those varlets high up
Who guy when they judge the acting “crook”
And hoot at the sign of a dry-up.
He paced the stage amidst laughter rude—•
“A mad Hamlet” would have defined him.
Then he turned, and shrieks from the house ensued,
For the prompter, with eyes on the play-book glued,
Was following close behind him!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


r
n
X
ro
r-
*
m
t. »i mill
f t. fi JMiIJ
i
Hi! Have YOU seen the new tyre
that everybody’s talking about ?
A wear-resister par excellence —broad, flat, and
entirely free from knobs and narrow projections.
l,ook at its traction-surface. Fully three-fourths of the non-skid tread takes the road,
at its extra tread thickness —due to extra rubber and fabric. These features mean
Sxtra Service —more mileage —greater economy. And the matchless Michehn Expenence
tands behind every constructional detail of this Quality production.
MICHELIN
Universal Tread
oc
Sold by all dealers who
study QUALITY.
QC


Wool
Men!
§M
. ■
m
mm
Aerial transport may come.
But meantime Rail or Ship
your WOOL to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
Sydney OR Brisbane. LTD.
N
For the
Motor Car
NATIONAL
MOTOR OHS
are .the ideal lubricant. They
safeguard your engine
against undue wear and tear
and enable it to produce its
full _ power on every road.
Theix* cleanliness, high flash
point and unmatched visco-
j sity. GUARANTEE perfect
lubrication with every type
of engine.
Obtainable All Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon Tins, 4-gallon
Tins and Barrels. Ask also
for; National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
HotlShotJsafferieff
are universally l used for ignition purposes.
Being iiiolsture-ptroof, they are especially adapt*
able for mtotor boat use.
Columbia Hot Shot Batteries eliminate the
necessity of connecting up individual cells. No
trouble fifom loose connections—only two con-
nections tjo make in placing the battery in service.
The individual cells are already connected in
series ai»d multiples-series to give the 'desired
voltage .and current. Columbia Hot Shot
Batteriestare made in various sizes to give volt-
ages of from 3 to 9 volts.
Satisfaictiomis guaranteed when you purchase
Columbia®. They are backed by more than
a quarter of a;century’s knowledge of battery
manufacture.
The 'Fahnestock Spring Clip Binding Post,
Bhown in the illustration, is a Columbia fea-
ture that sells bat-
teries. With this
Binding Post it is
simply a matter of
pressing down the
spring and inserting
the wire—and the
connection is made.
Dealers-Immediate
deliveries can be
DOW*
HERB
made.
Write
for cat-
alogue
and de-
tails.
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY, Inci
Export Department
Cleveland. Ohio, U. S. A.
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland"
m
THE GREAT FUTURE
of
Australia and New Zealand
is dependent upon the new
developments in Transport
and Communications by
SEA, LAND AND AIR.
Every man and woman is vitally interested, and
can follow these developments by reading - the
original, authentic and intensely interesting
articles in
ea, Laiadl a nd Air”
The Best-printed Magazine in the Southern Hemisphere.
It tells in plain English about Aviation,
Wireless, Motor Transport, Railways, Mer-
cantile Marine, Navy and Economics.
Order a copy from your newsagent, or send
9/- for an annual subscription (post free) to
THE WIRELESS PRESS, 99 Clarence St., Sydney.
N C
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
A-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BH as;
BRAND
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
A. W. LEWIS, 62 Brockman Buildings.
1
u
I
You Take it on
Approval
when you buy Ireland’s Baking Powder. You need
not keep it when it falls short of expectation even
to the slightest degree.
We insist—in fact, we demand—that you get your money back. V
And the grocer from whom you buy will not hesitate an instant in making the refund.
Order one tin of IRELAND’S BAKING POWDER at our risk.
If you do not find it perfectly satisfactory ours will be the loss.
IRELAND’S Baking Powder
is an unusual quality that never varies.
It is your safeguard to better baking.
Your Grocer has Ireland’s Baking Powder to sell
you on Approval-Try it!
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
19
Underwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods.
New “Olympic” Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers :
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 66 <f>
the. palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
_ JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor
TO MY SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Going to school!
On a bright summer’s day,
When your heart simply aches
For the sunshine and play!
But when you grow older,
And master “the rule,”
You’ll be glad, in a way,
That we sent you to school.
Going to wed t
Through the slush and the rain l
Cries a little black Imp,
“You’ll regret it—in vain!”
But, see, on your shoulder
She pillows her head.
Oh, your heart bounds with joy,
On the day you are wed!
Going to die?
Yes, they’ll gather around.
Perhaps crocodile tears
Will fall to the ground.
But. should one in the throng
Breathe a desolate sigh,
You’ll be sad, in a way,
That you’re going to die.
When the earth rattles down,
And you’re cosily dead,
Will it matter a damn
What you did, or you said?
Well, yes, little man.
Grave philosophers state
There is some sort of plan—.
And it pays to run straight.
S. AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.
Ultimatum glued to the wall of an Out-
back store in the Gulf country (Q.) ;
NOTICE.
Anybody passing valueless cheques here will be
pursued and dealt with.
Beneath the warning hangs an ancient gun
with a barrel like a Cornish boiler.
Crosby, an M.L.A. of S.A., journeying to
Europe by way of America, has come across
the weird Californian bluff of stopping the
clock in the State Senate. All bills meant
to be considered during the session have to
be in by 11 a.m. on a certain date. They
neve J are - So the clock is stopped, anil
the. House puts in a long day’s work with
the clock still recording 11.
“A.J.8.;: Why doesn’t the 8.M.A., in-
stead of fighting qualified men, get busy on
the quacks, such as “herbalists,” Chinese
and .Indian doctors,” etc., that are a curse
fi° U iL tra i .f ? ™, ls tbe . B M - A - too proud to
fight them. The cities are festering with
these impostors, who live on the ignorance
ot a large section of the population. Of four
that 1 know, one was a barman, one a
baker,_ another a gardener, and another in
me wine and spirit business.
Australia now occupies third place among
he buyers of Yankee moving-picture films
we bou S ht fr om America
11,990,943 feet at a cost of £122,743. The
. J Uhigdom topped the score with
i 0,387,095 feet at £223,300, and Canada came
second with 12,283,030 feet at £177,800.
But as we bought a lot of American pictures
through England, Australia would just about
oust Canada from second place. Australia,
with its magnificent light, produced only
25000 foot ° f ltS ° Wn pictures > totalling
r-i Go ddard, journalist, has recovered
. 4 from Adelaide Herald, the Labor
daily, for articles written and “short-paid
wages. The co. denied that it had kept
back money and invested it for him in the
.hares of the co., but suggested that he
’.ad authorised the accountant to make such
a deduction and investment. The Court
aid it did not accept that view. “It was
tactically admitted that the shares had no
"T -Cnt marketable value. By the rules
they were not transferable except on the
death ot the member holding them.” £2OO
claimed; £154 allowed. There is talk of
an appeal.
“Pins”: If the people who run the Vic.
*. o«»try 0 «»try Department must have pines on
the brain, why don’t they plant first-rate
ones instead of fourth-rate stuff like Pinus
mstgms and the Monterey pine? Such splen-
did timbers as the American yellow pine the
sitka, the sequoia and others will grow
well in many parts of Vic., but the others
seem to be preferred. It is well known that
some alleged forestry, experts would root out
all our gums if the job wasn’t so expensive
and plant pines. But what’s the odds? In
California, whence the Monterey pine
comes, they are grubbing the natives out to
plant our eucalypts. So that keeps the
balance nice and even.
“D.F.”: The first sealskins brought to
Sydney came from Dusky Sound, in Maori-
land, where a gang left on shore by Raven,
master of the Britannia, collected 4500 in
11 months. That was in 1792-1793. The
second lot came from Amsterdam Island,
about half-way between the Speck and the
Cape of Good Hope, where they had been
collected bv four castaways, two English and
two French, who were picked up by an
American vessel in 1794 and taken to Syd-
ney. The first vessel sailing out of Sydney
on a sealing voyage was the brig Nautilus,
winch left on November 7, 1798. to try her
luck about Cape Barren and the other
Stiaits islands. A few years later over
60,000 skins came into Sydney in a single
week.
Hugh D. Mclntosh, of Sydney Sunday
Times, wants £20,000 from the Sun, and
the Sun has invited him to come and get it.
The trouble arises from a contract which
AlClntosh is alleged to have made while he
was in England, by which the Sunday
times secured a series of articles by Doug-
n S • Bor< J Derby (British Minister in
l aris), Winston Churchill and other persons
of great tonnage. Things went on happily
until the Sunday Times printed an article
signed by Lord Northcliffe of The Times,
the Sun, which has a crib in The Times
othce, reckons it knows something about
JNorthcliffe’s movements; and it became so
suspicious that it cabled for information
about the great scoop. Then it printed what
purported to be replies from half-a-dozen of
fw n ;u sh s oontri butors, mostly regretting
ihat they couldn’t remember having written
anything for the Mclntosh paper Which
Mclntosh values at twenty thousand.


One Sydney Company during: the month
of March rang its Cash Registers 5800
times, to record the sales as per this docket
'.i’t-- M. •• i-'FW til ■ MESi&li flll'l
i!l¥SSf^£sSSflS
■UlcjQ IC)v
jl yrJ n <
:-yv.
t-m
■
&
mm
mm
'
&
tfu.
!
■***“3l
w&?.
s
/
m
m&m
.1;
fszm&sz
a=
Ist
m
m
mSm
C^A
rV'/. i
Ar-H.
, •
».«
;.*'*.<• •' /.>V •*,
#
Five Million Pills were required to supply the demand
for Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills during the month of March,
and their weight was more than a ton. Probably no
Proprietary Article in Australia sold at, or near, one shilling
ever reached such totals. In addition to the Company
referred to above, whose cash registers rang nearly six
thousand times in one month recording sales, other dis-
tributing houses, both wholesale and retail, handled pro-
portionately large quantities. The public has been advised
to take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills freely during this
epidemic, with 10 grains of Aspirin, and in addition to wear
a mask. It has been shown that there is no certain »
preventative from Infection, but these simple precautions are the very best
safeguard. Keep the germs, which at any time may be inhaled, on the move.
Don’t give them a chance to start activity, and for this purpose Aspirin and
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a wonderful combination.


E
IS
m
w
W/3 .
djosiery
CPECIALIZED
. methods in design-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
WARATAH
ftNCI
Fencing Wire
Is proving in every part of Australia
its gseat power for resisting severe
strains. Waratah is the outcome of a
world-wide experience in manufacture
coupled with best raw materials and
a knowledge of Australian conditions.
It costs less than imported, and is
vastly superior. Look for Tag “Wara-
tah Wire” when buving. Fencing
Book Nl9 IS FREE. Your store-
keeper stocks Waratah Wire. Made by
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Ferrars Street South Melbourne Vic.
-trt-t
Influenza.
“PLENTY OF MILK” is the doctors’
advice in all cases of influenza.
FRESH MILK modified by
Mellins Food
forms the best diet throughout the
course of the attack and in convales-
cence, because it is more palatable,
more easily digested and therefore
m%-e nourishing than milk alone.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
Price 2 6 per large bottle.
Sample and booklet free on request.
Mellins Food L,td.,
Colling wood.
AGENTS:—
GOLLIN & CO. PROPY. LTD., Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have arMkabsolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a i afe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the poisons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b=? taken in cosjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughput the Commonwealth.
Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Healthiest and most Beautiful Spot on
the Harbor. As warm in Winter as the South
of France.
Recommended by the Minister for Health and
the Medical Faculty. Finest Cuisine. Hot
and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Beautiful Beaches,
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths,
Fishing.
Tariff, from 12/0 per clay, or
£3/10/- per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002.
Apply Manager.
HOmJQCKSES’HORKOIKSkSHOH'KOCKSES’HQRROCKSES,
lORBOOCS&S'HOftaQCKStyftQWftOQ<SiS'H.ORROCKSSS’KORROCKSES'HORROCKSS
|M imiinmiwi„ U|
NOTICE
£ar\
©4 sMmSm * ig
\ JO? ri
Horrockses, Crewtfson
& CO., LTD.
1,111
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
BROOKE'S
, tenOM SQUASH
'largest SALE in the world
ABBEY
SHOES!
possess the distinctive style that
appeals to cultured people and
the wearing qualities sought for
by those who demand long service.
We illustrate a special Patent
Derby Shoe in a very smart “made-
to-order” style.
Price - 4 51-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Stocked in half and full sizes and
in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
A Missing Soldier of the 17th Battalion.
THE parents of Private F. A. DOUBLE-
DAY (No. 5801), 17th Battalion,
A.1.F., who was missing at Passchendaele,
October 10, 1917, will be glad to hear from
any returned soldier who was acquainted
with him, or can give any information con-
cerning his movements up to the time of his
being posted as missing.
Address : A. E. DOUBLEDAY,
518 Basswood Place,
Winnipeg, Canada.
Go to Town?
NO!
To the thousands staying from
the city we wish to say that
our best knowledge, taste and
selective abilities are at your
service for the purchase of
Jewellery, Gems, Watches, etc.
Fine Diamonds,
Set in Platinum.
£l2/12/-
5 Choice Diamonds,
Set in Platinum.
£l2.
3 Selected
Diamonds, Set in
Platinum.
£l7.
be returned ffdef&ed! S<?leCted a “ d not approved will changed with pleasure or any payment made,
skilFancM-nown Ifnrim- niucb ,n selection. to an old house of high repute as the training, taste,
skill and Known honor of its members have built up its great output, and this must be maintained.
Catalogues, special drawings and quotations will be posted with pleasure.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Fairfax 8' Roberts, Ltd.,
Plain Figures, Cash ojtfy,
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour 31111
Blachinery
Oatmeal Mill 3lachinery
Brewers’ and 3falsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Blixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Blachines
for Piccalilli, etc.
S/ze F 4
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Fink Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants tor
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Boiler Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. U
For years and years it was alleged to be
impossible to use Australian hardwoods in
Broken Hill mines, American managers hav-
ing sup i)lied two-and-twenty reasons why it
couldn’t be done. Then another brand of
manager took possession; and now, after
watching experiments in other mines, the big
Sulphide Corporation announces that it finds
the old legend quite untrue and has stopped
importations altogether.
What purports to be a Forestry Depart-
ment in the Speck is making very heavy
weather of it. Though royalties were
raised last year to Is. per 1000 ft. for hard-
woods, or nearly 1 per cent, of the total
value, the forest revenue was only £5251.
As about 100,000 acres are held under tim-
ber leases this works out at under Sd. an
acre. Either the Speck’s forests aren’t
what they are cracked up to be or there’s
a big hole somewhere.
Filippino-land has discovered the flapper.
It calls her “the girl in the camisola,” which
isn’t as improper as it looks, because “cami-
sola” merely means a knee-length dress.
But the Filippinos take her hard. To them
she is
the ballet-dancer’s rival in leg-showing', Lothario’s
blushing Marguerite, a curio for the curious, a
Messalina in the bud....an insult to grown-ups, a
delicate compliment to young libertines, Satan’s
agent at work.
This is a selection from 24 descriptive
phrases used by a Filippino pressman in
one breath. “Lothario’s Marguerite” is
almost literature; but why “blushing”?
That, surely, is a variety of flapper unknown
to Australia.
The Defence Department wastes a good
deal of money that can be ill spared through
the unsatisfactory way it conducts the mus-
ketry course in connection with rifle clubs.
A member of a club has only to blaze away
the requisite half-hundred rounds to be classi-
fied as “efficient” for the year, and then his
club collects ss. It is quite a detail whether
he hits the board or not, quite a matter of
no account whether he takes the business
seriously or not. It would be more in keep-
ing with the original scheme of rifle clubs
to require an improvement in the shooting
up to a set standard.
A syndicate has been formed to exploit
the glass-making sand from Lake Gnangara,
near Wanneroo, 14 miles from Perth.
Simpson, Government Mineralogist and
Chemist, reports that the sand is of excep-
tionally high quality, equal to the best Bel-
gian and Dutch, and superior to the
best French so largely used in European
glass-works. A glass made from it was
pure white and of great brilliancy. The
high-grade stuff at the Lake extends over a
strip a mile and a third long, 300yds. wide,
and an average depth of 4ft., containing,
roughly, 2,000,000 tons.
The new tunnel above Mitcham, in the
Adelaide hills, is finished, and is expected to
be in use by Easter. It is on the main line
to Melbourne and everywhere else east from
Adelaide. It takes the place of two old
tunnels, and shortens the line by something
under a mile. But its great value is that
it means the abandonment of two spidery-
looking viaducts bridging adjacent gullies.
These have stood for about 35 years, and
have justified the original claim that they
were as safe as any other part of the line;
but the steel cannot last for ever, and it
seemed cheaper to deviate than ..to renew
them. So the shuddery sensation of looking
down into space (the viaducts have no para-
pet of any kind) is to be a thing of the past.
“Inchiquin”: Who controls the movements
of the returning troops at Fremantle? The
Lancashire arrived at that port at daybreak
l on March 14. The ship had been “clean”
throughout the voyage, and the W.A.
troops were looking eagerly forward to hav-
ing their dinner at home. They came a
thud. It was not until 3.30 p.m. that they
climbed off the ship on to a lighter alongside.
It was a hot day and there was no shade
whatever from the sun on the lighter, which
lay alongside the trooper until 5.30 p.m.,
when a tug came up and towed the hulk
away. Of course there was no reason for
hurry. Some of the Diggers hadn’t been
home for four years, and ought to be used to
it by this time.
“H.M.A.S ”: “William Wardroom” is
wrong in saying (B. 20/3/T9) that the pay
question is a factor in the discontent of the
lower deck R.A.N. It never has been. The
complaints on this score have come from the
ex-imperial rating—and with good cause.
The ex-R.N. man, being mostly married, has
felt the financial pinch far more than the
mostly unmarried R.A.N. youngster. The
reason why the Australian did not eagerly
grasp the miserable promotion that was open
to him (i.e., leading seaman or petty-officer
rating 1 was not that the increase in pay was
too small, but that such promotion did not
lead anywhere,- and was usually only offered
to those who would re-engage for a further
seven years from date of promotion. Open
the commissioned ranks to lower deck men
with brains and energy, and there won’t be
any need for a £25 bonus to induce men to
stay in the service.
“F.C.”: Evidently the heads don’t know
what they are doing over in Blighty. One
youngster was sent across from France and
given 14 days’ leave prior to embarkation.
On reporting he and his mate were told to
take another 14 days, and did so. Report-
J ng again they were told the last leave was
a mistake, and they were to go back to
France. Demurring, they were told it was
either France or a job in the demobilisation
branch. They took the job, but noiv they
don t expect to get back till the very end—-
and both have been away over three years.
Billison, who enlisted in T 5, wrote to his
wife that he was having 14 days’ leave in
Blighty and expected to be home workin*
his orchard before May. The letter was
posted m London and she received it early in
February. Ten days later she got a depart-
mental cable saying her husband was “dan-
gerously ill” of pneumonia in a hospital in
1 mnce. A fortnight later came a wire sav-
ing he was dead.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy* Gabtnes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Eathfootas.
Single-berth ftoomS.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd,,
ieh—City 4246,
4247*
4810.
2,4, 0 Spring Street)
Sydney;
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MAY 7,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw,
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dunking, Public Companies. Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ( WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A,; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C,
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Oltice: Brisbane.
Sydney (Mice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., F.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1808.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1021.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 247,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—lV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - HHISDANJG.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
t broil alio lit Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ....£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £145,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Walks
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON S CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian‘United Steam Navigation C°t d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.) f Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT
R.M.S. NIAGARA and R.M.S. MA KURA.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—tlie Canadian Rockies—is on the Ail-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Takes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all he visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,025,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors; S. E. Eaidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
General Manager ; Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonu'caltb
JsinfrHustralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain),
also London (2), and A.I.F. Camps in England.
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and SAVINGS BANK AGENCIEB at 2776 Post Offices
throughout Australia, Papua, New Britain, Solomon Islands,
and The Pacific.
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1919 Governor
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR SAVING
are offered by this Bank—absolute security, liberal interest, and
the convenience of a Branch or Agency in almost every locality.
Deposits
Withdrawals
Interest
accepted from one shilling upwards.
payable on demand at the Branch where the account is
kept.
allowed at 3% per cent, per annum on every £ up to
£5OO.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BANK that PAYS 31% INTEREST on SAVINGS
*Ju]Ud|qs
m
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service
Manila, Hong Kong, Japan and
the East. Transhipment cargo
accepted for all Eastern ports,
Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KOSO MARU, sailing end of April,
early May.
MADRAS MARU, sailing middle of May.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
As Agents for Osaka Shosen Kaiska,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Intending passengers for other States
are requested to inquire at Quarantine
Department, Customs House, Sydney,
regarding necessary permits required
before sailing.
Permission to break journey at inter-
mediate Ports is suspended
Inter=State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, ALBANY AND
FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE
AND CAIRNS.
Huddart Parker L|h
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained oft
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorgre Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
TWEED,’ RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMI3UCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe, and Yokohama.
Passengers must obtain from the Quarantine
Authorities permits to leave New South Wales at least
three days before the steamer’s departure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., applv
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
| 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
GlfflMfE
WE PLUS OLTM
I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT fe COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
lotto*'®*
"gS* 8W ‘
ate
«2SS:
tS . s sy do * y
S-G e 0 n p v
391
jgS Tsr* a^n^ uOCtl ° ft
'Vt,'» ox ( " rB -. S sy4 n^AoeS
&ss=3w%t
< Shop*
dD f atAg6 noy
PERFECT GOWNING
WITHOUT FITTINGS
Such is the craft of Shave,
Master Ladies' Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate gown
or the severest tailor-
suit without fittings
Visit's by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
h alf-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
SHAVE
LADIES' TAILORS,
DRESSMAKERS
Centreway, Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly, Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening date of display.
1 V,
r-;?:
PAULINE et CIE
Announce their Autumn and Winter
Show of Millinery on & after March 11
Miss Gray will show Model Frocks, Coats and
Skirts, Blouses, etc., on and after March 25.
3rd Floor,Denison House Chambers
Telephone 10167. George Street, SYDNEY.
LADIES, PLEASE!
We do not want you to pass this advertise-
ment by, as it concerns every one of you.
The Dove Hosiery Stores, recently com-
menced, is the only store selling single pairs
of Hosiery and Gloves at wholesale prices.
We defy competition. Those who can, visit
our showroom ; others, mail us your require-
ments. We guarantee every satisfaction.
Here are a few values: —
HOSIERY.
“American Beauty,” Pure Silk Hose, full-
fashioned, seam, black or white, full-lengtn
silk 13/6 pair.
“L 37” Heavy Pure Silk Hose, full-fashioned,
seam, will not ladder, sold in shops at 31/-
pair, black only. Our Price, 14/11 pair.
Pure Silk, Ankle Hose, all Cdor s ’ very
superior 7/6 pail.
“OUR” Ribbed Silk Ankle Hose, black or
white, equal to any 7/6 hose, who
price 3/6 pair.
Black or White only.
The Dove Hosiery Stores
(Take Lift to 4*h Floor),
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Ex-Speaker Alfred Cowley, of Queensland,
came to Australia in 1871 from Natal; aud
in 1880 he went back to Pietermaritzburg to
marry Marie Campbell. This lady is the
aunt of Ethel M. Campbell, the Durban girl
who has been so wonderfully good to our
boys when the transports have called at her
home-port. One of the Durban girl’s
cousins, Gunner Roy Cowley, has just re-
turned . to Australia ; he was one of two of
the Queensland knight’s sons in khaki. Now
it’s easier to understand how Miss Campbell
was interested in the Diggers to start with.
A wedding of keen interest to Queensland
was that of Lilian, widow of Randall. Mac-
donnell, of Brisbane, and daughter of former
legislator Patrick Perkins, founder of Per-
kins’s Brewery, to George Wilkie Gray, of
Eldernell, Brisbane. The marriage was
celebrated by Father Piquet, at St. Patrick’s,
Church Hill, and old family friends Father
O’Dempsey and Father Tighe helped to tie
the knot that unites two competing beer-
firms of the northern State. The bride,
who is still remembered in Brisbane as the
prettiest debutante of her year, emei'ged in
grace from a creation of dull cream and blue.
Sister Ella, in cream peau de soie, was brides-
maid, and nephew Jerome Allan was re-
sponsible for giving the bride away; while
his handsome mother, Mrs. Seymour Allan,
hostessed the little group. The Wilkie
Grays are listening to the Manly breakers.
Later they motor to Brisbane.
Late last year Mrs. Perkins died at North
Sydney, where she and her three daughters
had been living. By the end of this month
the unmarried daughter, Ella, will have joined
the Carmelites at Dulwich Hill; and Mrs.
Allan will be the only member of the
familv left at North Sydney to greet
son Paddy, who went soldiering when he
was 18, nearly four years ago.
The Carmelite Order dates back to the
time of Elias; but it was reformed in the
16th century. Amongst other famous people
who joined it were Louise de la Valli&re,
mistress of Louis XIV.; Louise, daughter of
Louis XV.; and Theresa of Compibgne, the
friend of Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette.
It is told of the fourteenth Louis that he
tried to entice his former favorite back, and
Marie Antoinette wanted Theresa of Com-
pibgne to come and adorn the Court with her
beauty. But Theresa knew too much of the
fickleness of monarchs.
Eldernell, the G. W. Gray home, is possibly
the most beautiful in Queensland. A
treasure-house of art, surrounded by lovely
gardens commanding great views of the river
and surrounding country. It contains also
the unique library collected by the late
Judge Mein, who was a near relative of Mr.
Gray.
At Cockatoo docks on Thursday the all
home-made naval collier Biloela was chris-
tened and sped on her way by Mrs. King-
Salter, in blue crepe de chine, in the presence
of the vice-regal Davidsons and many guests.
The lady with the bottle was obviously suf-
fering from stage-fright, but her voice rang
out in the blessing that accompanied the
flashing stream of Australian wine. The
10,000-tonner refused, however, to move at
the word of command. Maybe she had
tangled her plates in a ghostly leg-iron or
so dropped by a careless convict-shade during
the night watches. Whatever the reason,
even the personal appeal of King-Salter to
her better feelings evoked nothing but a saucy
disregard. Finally, when everyone was in
despair, the lady lifted her skirts, so to
speak, and waded in.
Lena Chisholm, whose dad. James Chis-
holm, lives on the Richmond River, has won
the Gowland Harrison exhibition at the
Royal College of Music, London, tenable till
Easter, 1920. This is the fourth exhibition
Lena has won; the first gave her free study
for two years. Sister Margaret (nianiste)
has also been very successfully climbing the
ladder in London.
Mummer Jerome Patrick, whose handsome
face and figure caused many hearts to beat
faster when he appeared in the waltz scene
of “The Merry Widow” on its first Aus-
tralian tour, and later married into the Mey-
nell family, must thank his stars , that the
Firm let him slip through its fingers. For
some time now he has been drawing £lOO a
week in Belasco productions. Nor is that
the end of his luck. He returned the other
day to collect £20.000 left him by his father.
Father was a butcher in Dunedin (M.L.),
where Jerome’s sisters were always spoken
of as “the pretty Miss Patricks.”
“Dads Wayback” Fletcher is losing
daughter Mabel. She has given the promise
true to a soldier-boy who is now on his way
home to the apple orchard near Windsor
which the bride-to-be manages in the most
successful manner in the interests of father.
Major Baron Brooke, who returned on the
Ascanius in order to get his discharge, will
sail Fogwards almost immediately to collect
his wife, who was Mrs. Edward Edols, and
the almost perfectly-new baby. The Major
before the war was an Edgecliff doctor ; and
lie and his wife are anxious to be settled in
the sunshine of Rose Bay.
Mr. Charlie Jaques is engaged, after cling-
ing stubbornly to bachelorhood for a good
many years. The lady is a youthful and
nice-looking war-widow. He is a member of
the firm of Stephen, Jaques and Stephen, and
a brother of the widely-known and appreci-
ated barrister-soldier-politician “Sandy.”
Sara Allgood, who before she was Peg o’
My Heart had won fame by her work in
the Repertory movement in Ireland, sits in
the sunshine of her home at Mosman, and
grows enthusiastic
about the chances of
Repertory work in
Australia and the
founding of an Aus-
tralian dram, aL-
something that will
represent the people
of the country, and
not merely carica-
ture the cockies of
Wayback. Miss
Allgood was con-
nected from the first
with the little group
of Irish players and
writers to whom the
Abbey Theatre in
Dublin owes its
richest blooming.
There the beginning
of the movement was a love-child, the plays
were written and acted for art’s sake, and
gradually the Abbey took precedence of all
the theatres in Dublin in popular favor.
Dunsany, Mounteagle, Moore, Yeats, Synge,
Lady Gregory added their brilliance to the
work.
Miss Allgood’s sister Molly was in the
first company. She was. engaged to Synge
before the hostile reception of “The Play-
boy” broke his heart and a health that was
never robust. George Moore grows old and
lives alone in a beautiful home surrounded
with art treasures. His greatest delight is
to take a fresh listener to dinner, and tell
of his love affairs. Yeats is a handsome
fellow, inclined, as the Victorians had it, to
embonpoint; the stork proposed paying them
a visit when last heard of. His two sisters
have gathered a number of young peasant
girls about them and are training them in
Irish embroidery and the almost-forgotten
art of hand-printing.
The Countess Marcovitch took only the
slightest interest in the Players. They were
all too happy for her. A slim, dark, impetu-
ous woman, never happy unless she has a
losing cause to champion. She once
espoused .the cause of the barmaids of Bir-
mingham who were on strike for a higher
wage. Off to Birmingham she went, and from
carts and corners harangued the populace
until Master Bung, either because he was
convinced that her quarrel was just or
because he was mightily afraid of the up-
heaval, handed out the extra traybit, and the
private bar blossomed once more.
A cable mentions the return shortly of
Capt. .Rich. R.A.F. He is a son of H. C.
Ellison Rich, the solicitor, who is an uncle
of the High Court Judge. His grandfather,
Archdeacon Rich, was one of the picturesque
figures of early N. S. Wales. The Rich
family suffered heavily in the war, and Cap-
tain Rich is one of the few lucky members
of it. He joined the R.N. Air Service in
1915.
The air is full of divorce and separation,
and all the parties are young. A Sydney doc-
tor and his pretty young wife have decided
that futher existence together is unendurable,
after the briefest experience of matrimony.
A local pastoralist, in the twenties, who mar-
ried a handsome Queensland girl the other
day, is in the movement; also a remarkably
rich and good-looking couple who have been
finding each other’s temperaments incom-
patible. And about a dozen others are
threatened.
Mr. Charles Bundock is expected back
within the next few weeks. He went away
originally with “the Methusaliers” —the N.
S. Wales Remount Unit which reached Cairo
towards the end of 1915. When the body
broke up six months later he took on war
work in London. He had a job at Australia
House attending to returned soldiers and
others who were working on munitions. The
man in charge of the department was Colonel
Barraelough, sometime a professor at Sydney
University, and one of his colleagues was
Mr. Arthur Cox. The latter will probably
stay on in England. His wife, is there and
so is their only boy, who was just about to
join the R.N. when the war began.
One of Sydney’s most charming .widows,
who lately returned from the other side with
the last word in frocks, appeared a few days
ago in a garment Quaker-like in its grey tone,
but of a smartness of line that under the
cunningv of simplicity riveted the gaze. The
one-piece dress finished at quite an early
stage with a flounce of ribbon loops.
Bulletin bard Bartlett Adamson has
arrived in Sydney to make a niche for him-
self on the Inky Way of this Mecca of
Maoriland writers. He brings a young wife
with him.
Artist Alice Musbett, who has been war-
working in England, is coming home. She is
a sister, you remember, of the Sydney doctor
who used to write books telling us how to
cook and dodge doctor’s fees.
The Mrs. Weston, wife of Dr. Weston of
Macquarie-street, who is asking the Courts
to release her from the matrimonial life-
sentence, is one of the handsome Cosgrove
sisters —very tall and golden blonde. He is
an American citizen who went early to the
war and returned a bit rattled. There isn’t
any scandal —just the fashionable restitu-
tion plea.
The widow Maclurcan has been trying her
best to throw a festive air over drab times
by keeping up her Thursday dinner dances.
These are by way of reflecting the gay life
of the London night clubs and the Great
White Way, and they really are cheery and
sociable gatherings moistened by ginger-ale
and lemonade after the closing hour.
Mrs. Maclurcan, who not long ago paid
Uncle Sam a visit, gives it as her opinion
that the States are dry for good, and that
Sydney is going to reap the benefit. Dry-
ness will mean that the expensive and high-
life restaurants must shut down. It is the
cursed drink alone that makes such concerns
profitable. Consequently many of the pro-
prietors will flock here and establish
pleasure resorts of the kind we see in the
movies, where the girls caper on the supper
tables and everybody throws paper streamers.
The craft work of Rhoda Wager, whose
unique jewellery is such an attractive exhibit
at every Arts and Crafts affair, is to be
extended, and a Pitt-street firm (Farmer’s)
has secured her for itself. Miss Wager
came this way frae Scotland with a brother,
whose home is in Fiji, where she also spent
a couple of years, and incidentally fell in
love with a local pearl, which she mounts so
effectively.
Chester, in Challis Avenue, Potts Point,
for many years the philanthropic Blashkis’
home, has been taken over by the Red Cross
as a hospital for voluntary aids and nurses
who contract influenza.
Justice Harvey,
whose photograph
accompanies this, has
been helping Justice
Gordon get rid of the
mountainous accumu-
lation of cases in
Divorce. He hates
the jurisdiction and
makes no conceal-
ment of the fact; but
with hundreds and
hundreds of couples
clamoring for imme-
diate separation,
what can a natu-
rally humane person
do? Justice Harvey
is a slight, delicate-
featured man whose
proper place is in the
still, cold atmosphere of Equity. He was
something of a social figure in his young
days 20 years ago. about which period it
was his custom to discourse sweet music by
the agency of a well-trained tenor voice.
A new style of cap is in vogue in Maori-
land. It belongs to the mob family, glorified
according to individual taste. It is the
outcome of the Plague, when so many girls
had their heads shaven rather than risk com-
plete baldness.
For once the typiste is in short supply.
Men clamor for someone to manipulate the
keyboard, and clamor in vain. The cursed
germ, of course.
The pushful germ was not deterred even
by the cold eye of Prince Alfred, and the
nurses are down to it by the dozen. Some
of the breaches have been filled by fourth-
and fifth-year students, who are doing grand
work.
Captain Gilbert Nobbs, whose enthusi-
asm is going to do much to help his sightless
soldier-brothers, is himself a wonderful
example of the triumph of mind over matter.
A shipboard acquaintance says that coming
from England he was one of the most wel-
come partners at the deck dances.
Miss Carrie Fairfax found a new way of
remembering a dead sister’s birthday; she
hostessed a party of Aussie and Maoriland
khaki in the South Kensington Hotel,
London. The guests came from the hospitals,
and the army sisters of their own countries
looked after them. Mrs. W. M. Hughes and
Mrs. Jim Ashton were there, and “Birdy”
with his. lady.
There’s one thing these American Guides
haven’t told us about ourselves. Perhaps
they haven’t noticed it. See an American
going home of an evening, and the chances
are he’s carrying a parcel. If he isn’t carry-
ing one parcel he’s carrying two; and if it
isn’t two it’s three. He can’t see the sense
of paying a “quarter” for getting a little half-
dollar purchase delivered to his home when
he can take it himself without inconvenience.
Our men mostly loathe parcels. And they’ve
got to pay for their loathing.
She’s a nice enough little party—there
are several of her —but she will Spring
clean ; and the dust gets up into her brain
and clogs the machinery. She has peered
into every industrial and political hole-
and-corner of California —sometimes has
travelled even as far as Nevada—and
finds everything shining and bright and
a credit to the nation; but her char-
ring instinct will not let her rest, so
she has bound up her broom of sweeping
statements with a band of inaccurate infor-
mation, with which she is attacking the lit-
ter of our own eight-liour-day land. With our
usual tolerance we are looking on, quite
unimpressed, we must admit, for when we
want real information about the country of
the lads who bled with'ours, we take down
our reference books, or call up one of the
quite numerous Australians who have jour-
neyed and lived in America, and very gladly
returned to Australia.
Housewives are wondering if the slump
in metal will result in a bigger supply of
tins and do awav with such pathetic appeals
as a well-known biscuit firm pastes on its
containers: “You are earnestly requested to
assist us by returning this tin to your grocer
when empty.” The writer always found a
difficulty in complying with this request,
because she doesn’t like to ask her grocer if
he is empty. But the empty grocer is not
nearly such a freak as the racehorse Ardros-
san. A racing “stiff” was put outside the
gates at Randwick by the racecourse detec-
tive, and. according to one of the papers,
this “stiffest man in the racing game saw
Ardrossan beaten half a length while stand-
ing on a kerosene tin and looking over the
Randwick fence in the vicinity of Wansey-
road.”
The gum and the waratah and the koh-i’s
gold will raise their flowering pride in
France and on Gallipoli, for the graveyards
of our soldier-dead are to burgeon with the
plants of their own lands. For the rest the
cemeteries will be mostly smooth lawns.
After a recent farewell function at the
Town Hal], the guests who were in at the
finish collected and walked off with the floral
decorations. If one attended three similar
affairs a week; one’s flat might be a nest
of rare blooms.
Have you seen the painted screens and
candle-shades and china in Challis House
window this week? They are produced by a
method known by the patented name of “pan-
chrosis,” and the originator is Mrs. Arthur
Chauvel, sister of General Harry Chauvel.
(She married a cousin.) Another sister
paints miniatures.
The Catholic Women's Association is
straining every nerve to make the Ball in
May a success. Tickets are being mopped
up, and already Naval, Military, Pierrot and
Debutante sets have been formed. The
object is to enlarge the hostel in Oxford-
street in which Lady Edeline Strickland took
such an interest. Her successor as Pre-
sident, Mrs. John Barlow, dreams of a
hostel where comfort and cosiness will hold
out warm hands to the stranger.
Australian history is getting a lift. C.
T. Lowenthal has handed £100 to the His-
torical Society to be given during the next
five years in prizes of £15 and £5 to the
Australian youngsters who have the best
acquaintance with Cook and Wentworth and
the man who invented Buckley’s chance.
There is also talk of establishing a fellow-
ship in the same subject, Mr. Lowenthal
making a conditional offer of £100, and Mrs.
Annie Stewart, of Pokolbin, £50 to the cause.


DIAMOND
BROACHES
j -
M
AincQw.tlttii Diamond and
Platinum Shamrock Brooch,
in case £6B ~ O ~ O
WiSs
->,:.v'd:'
j?me Qualihj Diamond and
Rial inum Spray Broodr...
mease - O - O
ano companys laiamona uroocries are noted
-/or /hew eXc/us lioness of dcsipn, sZiZ/uZ sc/Cmp
& specie/// se/ec/ed perns.
Se/ec/ions wi tile forwarded on approve/ a/ //e*
"a toe
Company's own its/ & a co py of Z/ieir iZ/us/
ca/a/opue sen/ on rec/aesf
EASTER VISITORS /o Sydney ere i/nl/d/:
inspec/me Company's ex/ensive s/c
npanyt
owroorns...
5% DISCOUNT ALLOWED ON ALL
CASH PURCHASES.
HARDY BROTHERS II?.
13 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
JEWELLERS ?
116118 QUEEN ST
BRISBANE..
AND AT
LONDON.
r
J
W WS-
-v
H?,
n
HOLIDAf
TIME IS
CAMERA.
TIME
Tour holiday trip will be much more enjoyable if you take a camera, and
later on, when you look upon the photo* of the scenes and incidents that
occurred, you will be able to live it all over again.
We have a Most Varied Range of THE WORLD’S BEST CAMERAS-
Ensigns KodaKs Brownies Anscos
and many other well-Known makes
at Prices to suit every requirement.
fcj®
.
The V.P. ANSCO —illustrated here- —is just the camera
to take away; it can be carried in the pocket comfortably,
and being’ fitted with an anastigmat lens, you can take
snaps with it,,even on dull days.
ANSCO V.P. No. 2 is made of aluminium, covered
Black Morocco Leatherette, with Leather Bellows and Nickel
Fittings, Two Brilliant View Finders, Micrometer Focus-
sing Device, Modico Anastigmat Lens, F 7.5 in Extra-speed
Bionic Shutter, giving exposures from l-10tli to l-200tr> of
a second, also Time and Bulb. Takes Photos 3i x 2j in.
£5/5/-
ANSCO V.P. No. 2 with Ansco Anastigmat Lens,
F 6.3 and Shutter as above. Takes photos 3} x 2} in.
We invite your inspection, and will be pleased to show you how to use them.
Have Your Snapshots Developed
and Printed at Harringtons’.
{i you haven’t the time, inclination or are doubtful of your ability to develop your
films or plates, let us do them for you.
We Guarantee the Best Results Possible
from Every Exposure.
We have a staff of expert photographers, together with the latest appliances, and will
do your work quickly as well as efficiently.
I™
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
If your
retailer
does not
stock
Arrow
Goods
write
immediately
to
D. Hamilton
& Co.
The Mark of Quality plus Service.
Rotary Service Switches
These Switches embody the latest design and improved construction of American
manufacture.
Highly finished polished nickel, with indicating covers etched “On ’ “Off.
They are dust and moisture proof, the dial operating between the metal cap
and a fibre lining NOT cut away at the indicating hole.
*[ The dial of the indicating type being operated by the handle, is not attached
to the moving mechanism of the switch.
Ceiling' Switches, etc.
We have large stocks of the following types, which we are pleased to offer as under :
Cat. No. Description. Price per Doz.
6211—5 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches ... ... 37/-
6218—10 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches ... ... 4’4'/“
6123 20 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches ... ... 85/-
6628—30 Amp. Dble. Pole Indicating Rotary Switches ... ... 95/-
6202—3 Amp. Sgle. Pole Non=lndicating Switches ... 21-
6206—5 Amp. Sgle. Pole Non=lndicating Switches ... ... ... 27 G
Delivery can be
made immediately
from stock.
Sole Distributing
Agents for Australia
and New Zealand —
•Jo,
W/
m
'4&///A
m
J
We have also arriving
shortly —
Arrow Ceiling Switches,
Sgle, Pole.
Arrow Ceiling Switches,
Dble. Pole.
Arrow Ceiling Switch
Rosettes.
Arrow Surface Rotary
Switches, 3 Amp.,
2 Way.
Quotations on Application.
Elertrical Importers
and Suppliers : : : s
283-285 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
THOMPSON, MEGGITT & CO., LTD. Factory Representatives.
If your
retailer
does not
stock
Arrow
Goods
write at
once
to
D. Hamilton
& Co.


mm.
URI
- 'V.
B i
’im
ers
f a
URl.—Box Calf Balmorals, ex-
tended last, light welted soles ;
two fittings, also Derby styles.
Price 31A
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER'S, SYDNEY.
UR2.—Tan Willow Derby Boots,
round toe. comfortable last, also
in Balmoral styles.
Priec 21A
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel,
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Steamers every few minutes all day
and night.
Tariff, from 10/6 per day, and
from £3/3/- per week.
FOR BAD COUGHS USE TAR
SYRUP.
HOW TO MAKE IT.
Coughs, . colds, catarrh and bronchial
troubles yield quickly to the concentrated
healing properties of pine as found in bitrate
of tar. The most effective way in which to
use it is to add two ounces of bitrate of tar
to a syrup made by dissolving half a pound
of sugar in half a pint of hot water. Stir
thoroughly and pour into a pint bottle. One
or two teaspoonsful of this tar syrup will
quickly stop tickling coughs, and taken regu-
larly two or three times a day will soon
relieve a most stubborn cough, cold or case
of catarrh. It is also of special value in all
cases of throat and bronchial trouble arising
from exposure to the damp and cold. C ar< -
should he used to get the bitrate instead o
other forms of tar, which are frequently
useless for this purpose. All high-class
chemists stock it. —Advt.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
There was a gorgeous affair —what novel-
ists call a “crush” —at Government House
on Friday night. The occasion was an In-
vestiture. The Governor-General and
Governor Stanley wore all their decorations,
and collaborated with Captain Clifford, a
tall, fragile streak of vivid scarlet, who acted
as cushion-carrier. John Michael Higgins
was knighted—-for helping Hughes to solve
the metal problem, copper-miners will be
glad to know. So was Rear-Admiral Clark-
son. The latter was supported by Dr. Bar-
rett, who is already a knight. Three
Brigadier-Generals, in full panoply, received
C.M.G.’s —Rnmaciotti, Williams and For-
syth. They were upheld by Major-
General Stanley. General Stanley, born
ladies’ man, also escorted the Hennessy
dame, Mrs. Orme Masson, Mrs. Woolcott and
Miss Henty when they faced the music and
took over the crowned-crosses and purple
ribbons of the C.B.E. Mrs. Woolcott was
doubly distinguished. She also got the order
of the Servian Red Cross. Gil ruth, of the
N.T., hovered about, tall and gaunt, while
his wife acquired the 0.8. E. The Cresswell
lady was in this batch ; likewise the energetic
Philadelphia Robertson —she who Inis been
secretary to Lady Helen in all her Red Cross
work.
Lady Helen was elaborately garbed in old
rose, gold brocade and dove-grey chiffon, over
which were spilt a gallon of pearls and dia-
monds. All the men wore uniform who
could, and their wives attempted to get even
by appearing in brand-new frocks. Little
Mrs. (Flight-Commander) Harrison begged
her friends to notice that the forget-me-not
blue garment she was wearing was her first
new evening garment since the war. Mrs.
(Colonel) Cass, in gold and amber and purple,
looked like a movie “producer’s” conception
of Cleopatra. Mrs. (Colonel) Mclnerney
wore a soft blue, edged with fur.
Some gorgeous cloaks had an airing in
the long battle for carriages on the porch
steps. Mrs. Russell Clarke scored with a
clingy sky-blue masterpiece shot with silver
and gold. It was worn over a mauve tulle
frock. Mrs. (General) Sellheim was effec-
tive in military scarlet, with dark fur.
Lady Helen last week presented her old
friend Dr. .J. W. Barrett, the much deco-
rated, in a picture-lecture dealing with the
war. He was wearing civvies and a re-
turned soldier’s badge, and the occasion was
a meeting of the Friendly Union of Soldiers’
Wives. The doctor has shrunk to a
shadow of his old important self; also his
hair has thinned and turned grey and bis
eyes have become gaunt and linunted-looking.
His wife —all in black—sat with Lady
Helen, and Mrs. Sellheim and the wives of
other soldiers were all about. There was
a tea-party after the lecture, but the assem-
bly seemed too awed to do more than nibble.
The State Excellency spent a couple of
days last week motoring through the Heales-
ville district, and the district did him and
itself proud. He was shown all the natural
resources, ranging from the Acheron Forest
(which covers 200,000 acres), where a 200 ft.
mountain ash was brought down while he
waited, to the thriving Ross triplets, aged
four, who attend the Healesville school. The
Coranderrk abo. station was visited,, and
“Lanky” Manton, the only pure-blooded
Binghi available, supplied a light for the
vice-regal cigarette by rubbing together two
sticks. His Ex. provided a creditable im-
personation of a man who was astounded.
Vera, the Alfred Deakins’ youngest daugh-
ter, is engaged to Captain J. W. White. They
are in England, and sent the news by cable.
He is an Australian airman who was a
prisoner in Turkey for three years; she has
been war-working, her particular line being
in connection with the Australian missing
and prisoners.
When Alec Peacock was Premier he told
the Colonial Office, through Governor Stan-
ley, that until the K.C.M.G. he had recom-
mended for Davies, President of the House
of Landlords, was conferred he would re-
commend no more honors for Victorians.
The shot was effective, and Davies, who
had tossed aside the offer of a K. 8., got the
bauble he coveted. The Uppish House
was so pleased with the way Peacock
“cheeked” the present-day “man Rogers” at
Downing-street that it invited him and him
only from the Assembly when a shivoo was
held in honor of the Davies knighthood.
The Munro Fergusons drove out to see the
old President the other day at East Malvern
when he was very ill, and the G.-G. while
there handed him the knighthood insignia.
Davies’s predecessor, Zeal, when offered the
1v.8., told Hopetoun, then Governor of Vic.,
to tell the Colonial Office to keep it till it
grew. Like Davies, he got the K.C.M.G.
In “II Trovatore” at the Princess’s young
Lois’s Manrico was, as to dress, a cross be-
tween a fireman and a Norwegian viking,
lie wore tan shin-straps, probably borrowed
from a saga, and a large silver helmet that
left him in partial eclipse. Filippini’s Count
di Luna was a modish little man with ribald
crimson splashes staining his millinery. The
rakish red streamer from his giddy little hat
was a threat against the integrity of the
Seventh Commandment. Strella Wilson
stuck to mediaeval times in her first green
gown, but a subsequent confection with
transparent sleeves enabled her to advance
500 years in a stride. The sky-blue frock
of Inez (Isla Gamble) had no past and very
little future. It looked like a dead-end in
an original line of adornment.
What a falling-off 56 this! In the Gov-
ernment Gazette, over the signature of
George Steward, Chief Commissioner of
Police, it is announced that unless previ-
ously claimed one double flock mattress, one
single flock mattress and five flock pillows
will be sold at the Port Campbell police sta-
tion. Flock mattresses, forsooth, after the
tony atmosphere of Federal Government
House!
Homeward bound by the ’Frisco route,
Mrs. Major Finn, who was Dolly Castles.
Sister Amy comes, too, on a short vacation.
At the sailing of the Demosthenes, the
Emmerton clan turned up in force to wave
a good-bye hanky to Major Norman
Brookes and his spouse. Norman will
try his d dest to bring back the
tennis championship to Australia. The
same vessel bore away Walter Leitch,
the burly ex-oontroller of Munitions;
Mrs. Jensen, wife of the ex-Minister
for the Navy, now gone to England
but forgotten: Lynn Teare, a well-
known South Yarra girl and an inveterate
Red Cross worker; Critchlev Parker, of
the Mining Standard; General Ghauvel’s
sister-in-law, Miss Dora Jopp; and Mrs.
Phinns. who was ex-“principal boy” Linda
de Venney. To add a spice to the passen-
ger-list, a couple of brace of army chaplains
were shipped to look after the good of our
Diggers’ souls on the return trip to Aus-
tralia.
Lieut, and Mrs. J. S. McPherson have
arrived. Not much in that, you say; but
wait. She is Patricia Maureen Jfivesay
Henniker Mackay, widow of Capt. Mackay,
1 t. 5.0.. M.C., and onlv daughter of the Hon.
Francis Livesav Henniker Ricks, of Prince
Albert, Saskatchewan. Any day you may
hear of a Digger bringing home a' bride from
Professor David’s North Pole. It is Pro-
fessor David’s, isn’t it? Or is it the South
Pole he nailed his card on?
The Empire Trade
Defence Association
is a very live coterie
of women who are
putting on fre s h
activity now that
the heaviest strain
of war-work is off
the shoulders. Mrs.
Anne Burd Connell
(pictured here by
Alice Mills) is one
of the chief women
of the Executive
Council, which has
the Mayoress as
President and Ivy
Deakin Brookes as
vice. The Empire
Trade defenders are
now inviting dele-
gates to their Council from such concerns as
the A.N.A., the National Council of Women,
the Housewives’ Association, the Strength
of Empire Ass., the Soldiers’ Fathers’ Asso-
ciation and the Grammarians (old girls of
English Grammar School). There are
already delegates from other concerns too
numerous to remember. The league aims to
put our own part of the Empire first in the
thoughts of buyers. Mrs. Burd Connell
is flinging all her energies into this, after a
record of war work. For something more
than three years she never missed a day at
her post among the Melbourne Town Hall
workers. It was she who originated in
Melbourne and worked up the idea of using
Bunny’s coat for soldiers’ waistcoats, and
our boys have never forgotten the comfort
of the fur protection in their first experi-
ence of a snow-winter before the more elabo-
rate kit supplies were organised. The lady
dropped out of arduous secretarial work
during a year of serious illness following the
death of her husband, but she is again in the
van of the little army of women who are
working for the good of Australia.
Captain Douglas Walker, with his dark-
eyed wife, who was St. Kilda girleen Vera
Josephs, is back in Melbourne. Captain
Walker was one of Gregan McMahon’s
promising young Repertory Theatre actors,
and essayed many roles successfully before
the war occupied most of the theatres of the
world. Now he is busy with a more peace-
ful job that has to do with wool.
Gwen Hughes, the languid brunette who
came here with “The Girl in the Taxi” and
introduced the “Gertie Millar walk,” was
recently married in London to Tom Iveig-
win, a - gilded Sydneysider. The pair were
on the way to Australia, when Mrs. Keigwin
became a ’flu victim and was at latest lying
ill in San Francisco.
The George Marlows are preparing to flit
to England. Marlow retired from theatri-
cal management some years ago, but finds
that inactivity, relieved only by the keeping
of a racing stud, does not suit his tempera-
ment, so he intends to search for fresh
Marlowdramas and other theatrical odds and
ends. He talks of bringing out another
Italian opera co.
Canon Wheeler,
here presented by
Vandyck, is one of
Archgaiters Clarke’s
heavy artillery at
St. Paul’s Cathedral,
and the enormous
solemnity of his life
has compelled him
to take to music for
the recreation of his
festive spirit. He
has already written
two or three can-
to tas, of which
“Soot and the
Fairies” has caused
a ripple of interest
in highbrow musical
circles. He has also
unchained his fancy
in innumerable part songs, two or three,
founded on popular nursery rhymes, reveal-
ing a large fund of gaiety. However, he
hasn’t forgotten the needs of the Church, and
is now pouring some striking compositions
into the Anglican hymn-book to show that
he can also write music of a sacred nature.
Alfred Wheeler is a Cockney and Cambridge
man. and first weeded in the vineyard in
South Aus., where he arrived from Durham
in 1891.
Shortly before his recent departure with
Mrs. Cooke for a year in England, Samuel
Winter Cooke, of Murndal, sold part of his
Hamilton squattage to the Repat. Depart-
ment. Nowadays this is fairly common in
the Western District, provided the price is
right for the seller; but Samuel’s sale was
different. Though a private buyer had
offered him £l7 an acre, he was content to
take £l5 from Billjim’s trustees. This
Cookey, as W. J. Digger might himself re-
mark, must be a decent sort.
Presbyterian-padre Frank Holland, M.C.,
who made a name for himself as a bush-mis-
sionary in Centralia before joining up with
the A.1.F., is to marry Enid Ballance, an
English girl whose dad is Sir Charles Bal-
lance, a Harley-street man.
Lines from Brisbane :
Capt. E. R. B. Pike, a returned Digger, has been
appointed organising secretary of the appeal for
funds to provide quarters for Children’s Hospital
nurses. For a period he was recruiting officer for
Queensland. In sharp contrast was the action of the
Church of England Soldiers’ Help Society, which also
had occasion to appoint an organising secretary for
its “Lavender Day.” The job was given to a civvy.
Capt. Jim Urquhart, son of Police Commissioner
Urquhart, who arrived home last week, brought a
charming French bride with him. He left Brisbane
with the original 9th Battalion, and has seen four
years’ service.
The widow of the late Justice Harding met her
death in a tragic manner a few nights ago. It seems
that missing a train to Milton she started to walk
along the line. Her body was found near her
destination.
Died a few days ago Robert Harris Mills, who had
lived in the State for 58 years. He entered the
Queensland Public Service, and in 1889 became
accountant in the Audit Office. This position he held
until 1904, when he retired. He was one of the
founders of the Brisbane Musical Union.
Vera Jackson, orphan and heiress, is in
a riotously joyful frame of mind. Her very
own soldier-boy, Captain Bobby Gore, is
returning after four and a half years’ ab-
sence, and the delayed trousseau is being
heaped up and the wedding bells put in tune.
The Richard Caseys are hastening back
to peaceful Aussie after nearly three years
of Blighty. Their sons Dick and Dermot
(both of whom fly Military Cross ribbons, by
the way) are still busy soldiering.
While Tom Tilton, the Maorilander who
“produced ’ some of Allen Doone’s confec-
tionery for him and played Brinsley Sheri-
dan in his “Tom Moore,” was dying of ’flu
in Sydney, Mrs. Tilton (Pearl Ilelmrieh)
was down to the same enemy in Mel-
bourne. But they got to grips early in her
case, and she is recovering. Barring acci-
dents that is the general history of the
attack. No man is so strong that he can
stand up to this fiend. The soonest to bed
the soonest up.
Much sympathy is felt for pianist Nellie
Billings, whose husband, Maldon llobb, went
out suddenly before an attack of pneumonic
influenza. They were married a while back
(each having made a previous unsuccessful
matrimonial venture) and were an insepar-
able pair at musical and artistic gatherings.
Robb, once a Scotchbyterian parson, subse-
quently became a Gent. One. lie wrote an
excellent life of Adam Lindsay Gordon.
Fate, which has discovered several new
eccentricities since the war began, played a
very dirty trick on Leslie Mather, son of the
John Mather who was one of Melbourne’s
only landscape painters in the long ago.
Leslie counted for a time as a brilliantly
lucky man in the awful game. lie rose to
be a Lieut.-Colonel of the Royal Engineers,
and had been only once wounded when the
armistice came. At that time he was newly
married to a French girl, and the happy pair
hadn’t quite fixed up their future. That’s
where Fate chipped in'. Leslie Mather died,
and a French widow mourns her loss.
Virginia Roche is returning to the U.S.
after a mournful time here. Engaged as
principal “boy” for the Tait-Bailey panto.,
she was in quarantine when the show opened,
,and when she at length armeared was not
able to get on as good terms with the part
as Australian Dorothy Leigh. Virginia
was more of a sport than many an imported
performer, and did not make a fuss when
allotted a smaller role. When the co. left
Melbourne for Sydney she bumped against
more quarantine. Ilolnum’s second com-
pulsory-gloom edict proved the last straw,
and, remarking tearfully that she seemed to
be spending her whole life in quarantine, she
packed for home.
William Angliss, the Melbourne meat
emperor and M.L.C., was married the other
day to Miss Ben a Grutzner, and a large
crowd, including “Talma” Weedon, O. R.
Snowball and some fellow-/progressives from
the House of Fat, lined up to see the per-
formance. After leaving the church the
congregation swept on to the bridegroom’s
future nest and hurried some heavy provi-
sions below. Angliss, w r ho spent his honey-
moon in Warrnambool, was subsequently
fOted by his employees, who swore in Scotch
and Irish that he was a jolly good fellow.
From sister Adelaide :
Roy Hellish and his wife are going to make a 12
months’ concert tour through Java, Malay States,
China, Japan, India and England. Hellish has been
organist and choirmaster at Chalmers Church for
years, as well as conductor of the Glee Club and the
Phil. Mrs. Hellish used to be Clara Serena, the coun-
try girl of promise for wiiom the late Peter AVaite
and others organised a fund so that she might study
in Europe. She is S.A.’s best dramatic contralto, but
is not the second Clara Butt it was expected she
yvould develop into.
Though the hyphenated name is becom-
ing, frequent in these parts, something of
a record was established in the marriage
announcement of Anglican parson John
Brown, lately curate at Thornbury and now
vicar of Marshalltown, who has wed of
the Ross girls, of Yarra Glen. The notice
mentioned the union of John Cunningham-
Brown and Jessie Russell-Ross.
That kindly and conscientious citizen,
Smith, of the Charity Organisation
Society, has been appointed organising secre-
tary of the Commonwealth Button Fund.
Considering the meticulous care with which
Smith has administered the finances of the
C.O.S. for many years, pursued constantly
with the fear of a fourpenny deficit, the new
job should fit him like a glove. lie retains
his old billet with the C.O.S.
The hansom-cab has once more come into
commission in Melbourne, owing to the dis-
agreement between the taxi-chauffeurs and
their bosses. Recent affairs at Government
House have been reminiscent of shivoos of
20 years ago, when the Second-Best, who
couldn’t keep their own carriages, rolled up
the drive in hired curricles.
Mrs. Ilidgcock, of Pevensey station, is
eonvelescinsr at Toorak. The young matron
broke down through the exertion of getting
one of her daughters married and packed off
to England. Then another. a mere flapper,
suddenly appeared with a profusely be-
diamonded engagement finger, and the be-
wildered mother broke down some more.
Dulcie Deamer (Mrs. Albert Goldie) sends
a line from Los Angeles:—
Daring the past two years we have been in nearly
40 cities of the United States, but have come to the
conclusion that Los Angeles is the only one to com-
pare with Sydney. The eastern cities froze one not
only with their brutal dollarism, but also with their
beastly climate, which I have never been able to
endure. New York is, of course, marvellous. It is
expected, however, that prohibition will be a fearful
blow, as the city depends so much on its gay life for
its attractiveness. The same may be said of San
Francisco.


Born 1820
—Still going strong
£
V/
r
V
/
P
/
I
.7
,•
J
■t.
&
y **/
2/-1
3|
SB
-JPI
■
'A
-r*
0
i_VV
\ '
mm
m
JSb
w.
rr
I /pp
i
/*:
sm
4
Nm
Al
8
w,
f
gy
fc
isa
A*
1
4/
7?.
w
4
2<^
T-
n
7
v
m
w*
#
/i
n
m
V#Z
'M.
y--
I?
///s.
/
* !
1
m
Pi&
ZsA&dS.
1
N
•%
r
£
tfc
tn
n
\ v^ uvV *
vw aV •„,,**
™ W io\\
",Xi
ux\\ e
comes marcW£\\ome a^n, v
il*
JS4
77; <? old song goes with a cheer —so does “Johnnie IValker. ” At home
or abroad it is the same story : cheers from the man that “Johnnie
IValker ” cheers—from one end of the earth to the other, North —
South — East — IVest —everywhere the same cheerful popularity.
*~S --*" 1 1-
Red
Every Drop over
10 Years Old*
In Non-refillable Bottles.
If you pay a good price you should get a guarantee.
Johnnie Walker “Red Label” is guaranteed by the name on the label and the
N ON-REFILLABLE BOTTLES in which it is put Up.
IT IS QUALITY PROTECTED.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COGLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WHITTy
(m&V
to
4/1
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
AT
DLTV/y
Q
S?
o
Y/S/,
WM
jmr':
/ '///////////
ms
IS
Y<k
. H mgi
'fa4
IMJ
%
'///ss,///VS S
gjSf
v:
V
AUD
A
Jay
'Brmcls
Gin"ond
iooK for
this label
You'll
be pleased
with the
result
SEE
With the racing carnival postponed, the Agricul-
tural Show abandoned and the numerous other re-
strictions resulting from the pandemic, the Easter
festival is robbed of most of its attractions. _ How-
ever, it should not be overlooked that “the spirit’’ of
all time and occasions is King George IV., the top-
notch Scotch whisky.—Advt.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
“Bridom”: Carslake. the Australian
jockey, has been unbosoming himself to English
sports. He was born 32 years ago in Caulfield
(Vic.), where his dad was a leading trainer. Young
Carslake rode his first winner at 14 and matricu-
lated as one of the foremost Australian jockeys. He
was engaged by It. 11. Henning for England, with
Ferguson as trainer of Australian horses. The
establishment was made at Heath House, Newmarket,
occupied successively by Mat Dawson, G. Dawson
and Lord VV. Beresford. Carslake’s first mount was
on Swagman at Birmingham, and he landed the pork.
He got five wins in 25 lifts. Going to Austria he
rode for Antoine Dreher, and had ,a prolonged success
in the now busted monarchy and thereabouts. The
show came to an end with the war. In Roumania
the Victorian rode for one Nicolesen, who gave him
a retaining fee of a thousand a year. AVhen the
Huns appeared Carslake and his wife escaped to
Odessa, thence to Petrograd, where the jock picked
up the thread of his luck again. Mantasclieff, a big
owner, engaged him as first jockey. There was no
sign of revolution then, and the Australian won 92
races in Moscow. Perhaps that’s what precipitated
the revolution. AVhen that arrived, Carslake and his
missus shipped to Liverpool, and at Newmarket he
rode Stefan the Great in all his races, and was not
beaten when last 1 heard of him.
• • • • •
Carslake is reported in a London paper as having
said that there was “no comparison between racing
in England and in Australia” ; also, that “no jockey
who had ever ridden in England would ever want to
leave England.” “English racing,” he wound up
lyrically, “is on a pinnacle.” All such stuff has to
be discounted by the venue ; it is characteristic of
politicians, actors and most other public performers.
In no sense can racing in England be accurately
said to stand on a pinnacle. Much of it on the most
famous courses cannot be seen properly even from the
highest-priced stands. Notably is this so, as Cars-
lake admitted to his interviewer, at headquarters—
Newmarket. To see anything of the Csesarewitch it
is necessary to be mounted ; and the same applies in
a lesser degree to the Derby and Oaks. No one can
get a line as to wliat is happening in the Grand
National without the best of glasses and a good posi-
tion on a stand. Many members of the public are
satisfied in this race to stand near one fence —usually
the water—and see the horses perform over that and
that only.
Accommodation apart, the stakes in England are
comparatively paltry. The added money for the
Grand Frix at Longchamps (Paris) is £12,000. The
Melbourne Cup is a matter of £BOOO. Russia, Aus-
tria and Germany before the war, and America and
the Argentine still, provide better prizes than are
■to be gained on any English course bar Ascot—which,
incidentally, is more like an Australian course, in so
far as it gives the spectators a view for their
entrance-money, than any other in England. For
years many of England’s greatest stallions have been
going abroad —to France, to Russia and to a dozen
other countries that race on modern lines. In point
of fact, English racing is in very much the same
position as English boxing. It is a rich man’s sport.
The environment is particularly pleasant for those
who are in the swim. The rest are not considered.
The result is small stakes in the one and small purses
in the other, and a steadily-dwindling public interest.
In Australia the public goes racing; in England it
bets s.p. in a bookmaker’s shop, and instead of
watchine- the numbers go up buys a halfpenny even-
ing paper and learns the result there. A moderate
crowd attends races like the Derby and the City and
Suburban, but they go as they might P'o to fairs —
which, in fact, is what such meetings are. There can
be no vitality in racing carried on on those lines.
“8.0. N.”: The simplest and most satis-
factory betting system I know has been followed for
years by a Melbourne pressman, and he isn’t “broke”
yet—not by a long way. He notes all the tips in
the various papers and averages them up, giving
three points for a first selection, two for second, and
one for third. Then he backs the two horses who are
most fancied —or three if it can be done profitably.
He bets to win £1 on each race, and doubles up
when he loses. 1 worked it out on Saturday, and
the system gave five winners out of six races. I
didn’t follow it; but he did.
Died on Sunday, of influenza, 11. Eames,
the A'ic. steeplechase rider. No gamer man ever got
up on a horse, and he was a strong and skilful
finisher. He steered Norahquong to victory in the
V.R.C. G.N. Hurdles last year.
I*. J. Quain, of Sydney, has gone
under to the scourge. He was about the best of the
pony jockeys before he took to training.
* * * *
Mount Miltsin paid a divvy of £lB9 9s,
in the Bosanquet Handicap at Adelaide last week.
The first and second favorites, either of whom should
easily have settled Miltsin on form, were left at the
post.
Poethlyn is one of the three horses that
have won Nationals in successive years. The other
two were the Colonel and Abd-el-Itader. Poethlyn
had a miserable start in life. Fine Champagne, a
mare purchased for 25 guineas, was mated with Rydal
Head in 1909, and the result was “a weak wretch of
a foal who for a time had to be held up to suck
and whose legs for a long time were crooked.” The
foal was sold for £7. Later on, as an overgrown
two-year-old, he was purchased for £5O, and named
Poethlyn, which is AA'elsh for brandy.
• * * *
“Spreader”: Here’s a better gamble than
a State-owned Tatt.’s sweep. Let-the Government set
up a tote and run doubles on fixtures such
as Doncaster and Cup. Betting would start
with the nominations and cease the night before
the race. The Treasury would take the 11 p.c. (less
working expenses) ; the danger of an owner demand-
ing an unreasonable cut would be minimised; and the
fluctuations of the market would give an interest to
the business that the holding of a ticket never does.
A NEW STUNT.
“A motor-car containing five passengers fell 50
yards over an embankment into the Macquarie River,
near Warren. The occupants escaped injury, while
the car was only slightly damaged.” —Sydney Tele-
graph.
The Fisherman: “Damn these motor-cars!
They git everywhere !”
Tatt.’s is not permitted to pay out money
to anyone under 21. Dr. Arkle, of Kalgoorlie, whose
son won a second prize, applied to a Kalgoorlie bank,
where the money was lodged, but was informed that
he could not secure it on behalf of his son, nor
could his son collect it until he reached the age of
21. The doctor took the matter to the Supreme
Court, but all the Court was able to do was to give
him permission to invest the money in some
approved security till the son became of age and
could take possession of his own property.
# * * *
Sing, the Adelaide jockey, reckons that he
is dead out of liick. After winning the Gawler Gup
on Antos, he was disqualified (but placed second) for
boring out near the finish and forcing Dependence
over to the judge’s box. The joke is that this same
Dependence was treated in much the same way in
the S.A. Leger two years ago by Stageland, but no
action was taken; and that time Sing was on
Dependence. The horse got good luck and bad ; the
boy got it in the neck both ways. At Morphettville
if Dependence had not been interfered with he
would probably have beaten Stageland; while at
Gawler Antos would have beaten Dependence, any-
how.
Boxing, though dead in N. S. Wales,
flourishes elsewhere. In Brisbane on Saturday night
the Sydney lad Billy Tingle met and well licked a
local boy named Graham. Melbourne has resumed the
pastime, and S. Aus. never stopped.
It is claimed for Jack Dempsey, the
challenger of Jess .Villa rd, that he has one of those
punches which are fatal to the heaviest and toughest
enemy. Les Darrv had just such an asset, and in
either hand. These punches are always short. Tommy
Burns outed all his men with blows that only trav-
elled a few inches. So did Fitzsimmons, Ganz and, in
his prime, Sam Langford: Jimmy Wilde, who re-
sembles a living skeleton in the ring, and who is so
frail constitutionally that he has to rest for hours
before every contest, gets all his k.o.’s with this
effortless variety of hit. It is the possession of some-
thing of the sort by Frank Darcy that helps most to
create a suspicion that he has in him the makings of
a champion.
Joe Attwood outpointed Australia’s old
friend Johnny Summers last week at the National
Sporting Club. Attwood is regarded as a rising
welter-weight in England, but the form is low there
in all classes, except in the ease of one or two freaks
such as Basham and Wilde. Summers must be get-
ting on for 40. and he has not led a careful life.
Even Pat O'Keefe, who was no chicken when he was
here as sparring-partner to Tommy Burns, can get a
matefi any time he wants one as a star middleweight.
It is a measure of the boxing-class generally.
Jimmy Wilde is to get another match with
Pal Moore in ‘June 'for a purse of £5OOO and the
bantam championship of the world. A majority of
the best judges agree that Wilde was robbed when
Moore was given the decision over him in their last
fight.
* * * *
There were four centuries in Sydney first-
grade cricket on Saturday—M. A. Noble (Padding-
ton) 122 n. 0.; P. W. Docker (AVestern Suburbs) 149 ;
F. A. Merchant (Petersham) 119; and Noel Levy
(AA'averley) 103. Levy is a new-comer—a 17-year-old
left-hander.
#■ * * *
Warren Bardsley’s 79 (out of 171) for
Glebe against Sydney lifted bis aggregate to 1145
the record for Sydney first-grade cricket. Arthur
Mailey (Middle Harbor) is the leading performer in
the other department. His 66 wickets average 19.13.
* * * *
Of its matches in Sydney first-grade cricket
this year Paddington lost only one. One was drawn
and the rest won, the team finishing on Saturday
five p.lints ahead of AVestern Suburbs. M. A. Noble’s
club was on top in ’94-5, ’97-8 and 1900-1 (thus
winning outright the Hordern Shield), and it had a
leg-in for the Rawson Cup in 1906-7.
A record motor-boat run was made across
Cook's Strait (M.L.) on a calm Sunday afternoon
recently. A AA’ellington business man who found
himself in Picton when he wanted to be in Welling-
ton chartered a fast whaling cruiser,
the Cachelot, which looks like a Ü-
boat chaser and has a speed of 28
knots. The trip over the 52 miles
between the two wharves was covered
in three hours, and could have been
done in less. The Cachelot arrived in
Wellington port as the local yachts
were heading for home in the after-
noon ; and the way she dashed
through them was a surprise to the
sailorrnen. After landing her passen-
ger the little boat hurried off to get
home before dark. On other occasions
her owner and friends have run across
to the capital to see a show at a
theatre, and left after supper on the
return trip. The Cachelot is the
fastest thing afloat in Maoriland
waters; and is a good rough-weather
boat, too,
* * *
Maoriland pressmen lost a
staunch friend the other day when
John Latham, for countless years
secretary of the Gore (M.L.) Racing
Club, went west. He gets these lines
because, over 20 years ago, his
thoughtfulness prompted him to intro-
duce a system of supplying to the
press-room immediately after each
race a card giving the tote invest-
ments on each horse, the overweights,
ihe allowances, the starters, the
riders and similar information in-
valuable to the rushed reporter. The
idea has spread throughout Maoriland, although there
are clubs that haven’t heard of it yet.
Two juniors who made a noise in Sydney
cricket tlrfJUseason were F. Mair (Bexley AVaratah),
who scoiMjtooB runs, and E. King (Arncliffe Scots),
a of 106 wickets.
Cricket Club duly won the
r> r (’nwpaKjßjfc Saturday, while honors in the sub-
flJßpion went to Hawthorn. Ryder hit up
118 Collingwood v. South. In the premier
team’ojßch against Richmond Armstrong took four
wickefl£pbr 23 and House three for 20.
Premiership of Adelaide cricket goes, as
so often before, to East Torrens, the Norwoods of
old. It lost Crawford, Mayne and Whitty shortly
before the war, but on the resumption of cricket has
quickly built up a new young team. The captain,
Doepke, is a solid bat (average 51), and Schulz a
coming wicketkeeper. But most of the work was
done by two men, Arthur Richardson (batting average
98, bowling 11) and Bruce Townsend, the latter a
fierce left-handed hitter (53 and 21). Sturt is a
good second in the premiership list, Port Adelaide
(specially strong in howling) third.
* * * *
Not often a rep. cricket team vanishes in
an innings without a single player reaching double
figures, but Southland managed it the other day in
its annual argument with Otago (M.L.). In South-
land’s first innings the top score was nine and the
total 41. At the second attempt it did little better,
notching 55, although two batsmen got as far as
double figures. Two Otago bowlers evenly divided
the scalps. Holderness captured his 10 for 39, and
Alloo his for 50. By scratching 94 and 88 on a
bowler’s wicket Otago won easilv.
* * * ♦
The other day at an ordinary two-day
trotting meeting at Dunedin (M.L.) £54,514 was
put through the tote, which is £ll,OOO more than
was handled at the same meeting last year. Dun-
edin is a Scawtch stronghold, a place of whusky,
tartan, bagpipes and haggis; but for utter reckless-
ness it is sometimes hard to beat a red-whiskered
Scot with several whuskys inside of him and his
eye on what looks like a five-pund deevy.
Cross-country rider J. C. O’Day, of S.
Auk., Ims finish ed his hit in France. But he com;iins in
the danger zone. Since he got home his falls total 21
and include broken collar bone (3), broken ribs (4h
hand broken (1). Also, he was unconscious for six
days after his horse was killed under him at Port
Adelaide. TTc has won twice and been placed Hi
times.
J. Holt by taking the double at Caulfield
on April 5 brought his tally up to 30 wins for the
season. He has 17 horses in work.
* * * *
The 14-footer St. George, of Port Adel-
aide, is a wonder. On a fine day she can carrv
1400 sq. ft. of canvas. She woii the Australian
championship in 1911-12 at Perth, and was also
champion of N. S. Wales and Botany Bay, being the
only 14-footer to carry oft three championship races
in one season. Since her arrival in S. Aus. waters
she has started in 38 events, and won 19 of them,
always off scratch. C. E. Dunn, of Berry’s Bay
Sydney, was the builder.
The Oval team has come out top in Adel-
aide bowls. It lost only one match (by two points)
in the whole campaign of 17, and ended with good
wins over its nearest rivals, Adelaide and Marryat-
ville—the latter a new and surprising star. Old
cricketers are prominent in the Oval team —Blimnan,
Pettinger and several Hills. Mostyn Evan is not
playing now, but is still sole selector.
* * * *
Victoria’s football starts in May on a pre-
war basis. ’Varsity, which dropped out of the
League before the Big Scrimmage began, stays out
—it never raised a team quite up to League stan-
dard. Melbourne is the last team to resume—it
hasn’t played for four years, and will'have a job to
raise an 18. Four of its best have gone west, and
14 others are damaged in one way and another.
Boy Park, its -little forward, will play; also big
Brake, in the centre. South, ’Wood, ’Roy and the
others have lost great players who will do their dash
no more, but these clubs have played off and on all
through the row and have trained juniors to take the
others’ places. Melbourne will have a proud reason
for its defeats.
* * * *
Recently in Wellington (M.L.) Harbor,
where the wind-puffs have the strength of a leak in
the Devil’s bellows, a girl eight years old brought
her yacht home second in a ladies’ handicap race.
“Centurion”: An elaborate, equipment for
netting wild fowl is employed by the Bedouins Of
Sinai. When the Light Horse first crossed the Canal
the great annual migration of quail from Europe to
the North African littoral had begun. The Bedouin
tribes all flock to the beach at this time with miles
of nets and light bamboo poles. The nets are
stretched along the foreshores, and as the weary
quail ’plane down to earth they are caught by hun-
dreds of thousands. I don’t know where the Bedouins
get the bamboo poles they use. There is no supply
of the vegetable within a thousand miles.
At the Queensland State Schools’ Cham-
pionships the other day, E. Cormack won the 100
yards under 15 (lmin. 13 l-ssec.), the 33 yards back-
stroke (28 3-ssec.), and the life-saving event, and he
helped Central to win the teams ehampionshin.
A. W. Cuthbertson won the revived Tas-
manian singles sculls championship by eight lengths
from G. A. Westbrook (Derwent). Ex-champion
Fred Coverdale (Sandy Bay) was third. Cecil McVilly
(holder) is still O.A.S.
Ashfield’s defeat of Chatswood in N. S.
Wales rink championship at Sydney on Saturday
entitles it to fly the bowls pennant during the coming
year. Scores: 91-82. Although Ashfield finished
“up” in three rinks, Chatswood’s majority of 11 in
the other rink was the biggest in the match.
Andre Gobert will probably be seen in the
Davis Cup contests this year. A wonderful natural
tennis player, he won the Gold Olympic Medal at
Stockholm in 1912, and defeated Wilding at Queen’s
in the London covered-court championships. When
be previously represented France in the Davis Cup
his excitable temperament was against him, hut four
years’ campaigning has steadied him down consider-
ably (he was in the flying corps), as was indicated
at an Armistice tournament recently' held in Paris.
A. G. Saxton, the Sydney R.Y.S. enthusi-
ast, is having a new 6-metre boat built with which
he hopes to lift the Northeote Cup. The designs are
by Gill, the famous Southampton (Eng.) artist in
such matters, and the builder is to be Hayes, of
Neutral Bay.
* * * *
Every now and again a somnolent Back-
blocks district is stirred to its depths hv a report of
a lion having got loose. This hannened the other
day near Tarana (N.S.W.). It was the usual old
lion. After sensational yarns had been circulated in
the quarters where most alarm was likely to be occa-
sioned, the beast was tracked down and identified as
a large and very nervous yellow dog. A lion, how-
ever small and mangy, has a certain value for show
purposes, and when such an animal eludes its owner
the fact is not hidden. The idea of an anonymous
lion wandering about the country unclaimed by
anyone is preposterous.
* * * *
Members of the A.I.F. have been promin-
ent in sport in England during the last few days.
At Bradford 6000 people watched Australia down
M.L. (6 points to 5) in their draw of the great
Rugby tournament. England plays S’Africa next
Saturday. In the big Service Golf tournament C. A.
Fawcett, of Australia, has got into the third round.
Eric Quirk is out. In the covered courts tennis
championships at Queen’s Club —the big amateur
institution at West Kensington—Rod Heath, Gilbert
Patterson and Doust were winners. P. O’Hara Wood
forfeited. Great admiration was expressed for Pat-
terson’s form.
THE PESSIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alphonso Snoop was one of those exasperating men
Who cheerfully anticipate the worst.
At cricket-matches he would carp. Invariably, when
His friends with zeal were well-nigh fit to burst,
Snoop’s judgment would be heard, as thus, in accents
cold and drear:
“Old Mary Ann! He’s done. He won’t last out
another year.”
At ev’ry first-class boxing contest Snoop was sure
to be,
And if a local champion was at work
He did his best to damp his neighbor’s partisanish
glee
By saying, with his irritating smirk:
“The other feller’s winning. Mark my words, the
tip is sound.
Our man ahead! He’s done! He won’t last out
another round.”
On race-days Snoop would view the equine idol of
the crowd.
And crab it from its withers to its hocks,
And talk of curbs and splints and strains, till folks
grew heavy-browed
Who’d previously have backed it with their socks.
And later, when the straight was reached, he’d
howl with all his strength:
“The favorite’s beat! He’s done! He won't last
out another length.”
Last week Alphonso Snoop collapsed, a victim of the
’flu.
His wife and family hurried him to bed
And wildly called a doctor. He looked doubtful,
even blue,
On seeing Snoop; and presently he said:
“This is no idle guess-work, I am grieved to have
to say
That Snoop will die. He's done! He won’t last
out another day.”
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


How’d You Liße to Get
m
wmm
V-
a Thrashing'
from a man smaller than yourself? It would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience—an experience that many a man has gone through, much to
his sorrow. Make no mistake about it, size does not protect a man when
•he is called upon to defend himself.
The man who KNOWS the art of scientific boxing has it “all over” his
opponent.
Don’t YOU run the risk of getting a sound thrashing from a man smaller
than yourself—think of the slurs, the insults, that would be hurled at you
from all and sundry as the result of such an experience. Why not then
learn how to defend yourself—how to fight your way out of a tight corner —
and so prove to your fellow men that you are a man always to be reckoned
jjWitli —looked up to —and respected.
I Teach Boxing by Post
—teach it in a thorough, scientific and practical
manner. Now, don’t get the idea that 1 teach you
only the theory, because that’s not so. Under my
guidance you will learn how to. make all the “hits,”
“stops” and “moves” of the world’s most scientific
boxers.
You’ve no excuse for remaining crude and inexperi-
enced, a good target for the first “bully” who tor-
ments you. Let me make you a cool, determined,
scientific boxer, with a substantial punch and effec-
tive guard—a manly man, well able to look after him-
self and win the respect of others.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and I will send you my
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about njy methods, terms, etc.
Please send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. BAKER
“The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,"
11 MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, 82a OXFORD BTREET, SYDNEY.
Is Your Dog Ready?
Training: Now in Full Swing,
TONIC AND CONDITION BALLS
Purify the Wood, prevent worms, produce
first-rate condition for coursing.
Price 2/6 per box.
__ STIMULATOR FOR RACING HOUNDS.
For external use during coursing. Alleviates
stiffness and fatigue. Price 3/6 per bottle.
Booklet, “HINTS TO DOG OWNERS,”
Price 6d. Post Free.
R. W. BEDDOME (Si. CO.,
Dor/ Medicine Specialists ,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable also from
JOHN BRUSH PTY. LTD., SYDNEY;
WALTHER & STEVENSON, 393 George St., SYDNEY
m
wdu
w
"Woiud^Dest
r MbTO*Q>IWr
Sftnn€ s c/'£> Gised
in C2us'tr<9jG&.
[ BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COT. LTD.. All HAUI VH Z.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLO
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTI
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENE
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPMCATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
It can’t be
done here
This is the
Only Way
IF it had been possible to secure absolute motor-cycling comfort by any
method of saddle-springing, Indiana would not have spent thousands
of pounds experimenting with and perfecting the Cradle Spring
Frame. But it wasn’t.
Xo amount of seat-springing will save the jar through the feet, nor the
shocks received by the machine itself.
There’s only one way to do that* —spring the rear wheel. And only one
motor-cycle has the rear wheel sprung — Cradle Spring Frame.
Catalogue with pleasure.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor-Cycle
Co. Pty., Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor
Agency, Ltd., Adelaide and Creek
Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons,
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
A Good Cigar at a Moderate Price—
“CAROLA.”
MILD, BURNS FREELY, FINE AROMA.
SAMPLE BOXES POST FREE.
*
11/6 Box of 25. 22/6 Box of 50.
A Really Pure and Healthy
FULL-SIZE VIRGINIAN LEAF CIGARETTE—
“SATIN FINISH.”
5/6 Box of 100. 2/9 Box of 50.
HOST FREE.
A. A. MARKS, 576 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
For Reliable Motor-boating
install the CAILLE, E.NGINE,
THE CAILLE is the motor-boat engine de luxe, ami
whatever price you pay there is nothing better on the
market, either for work or pleasure boats. The name
CAILLE has a reputation behind it which is accepted the
world over as a guarantee of continuous service. CAILLE
<«'>u-antees you against the troubles and dangers of break-
down. Benson Brothers Ltd. have a complete range
of CAILLE MARINE ENGINES from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies one- to four-cylinder designs
in standard and heavy-duty types.
The Cat He Rowboat Motor
is great for sport.
You simply clamp the CAILLE on the back-
board of the rowboat and off you go, any-
where you like, ' just as if you had a big
power boat.
Delivery from Stock. Spare Parts of all
CAILLE Engines available. Write for
Special Booklet to
Benson Brothers Ltd.,
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
fifi
Warrigal” Gap Bed Lathe
with Hollow Spindle.
EMBODIES ESSENTIAL QUALITIES—
ACCURACY, RIGIDITY, STRENGTH.
9}" Centre. 10' Bed.
SWINGS 34 INCHES IN GAP.
HOLLOW SPINDLE 2'~ INCHES DIAMETER.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK. Inspection Invited.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd
490-492 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


£s•'<4
Returned Men
YOU’VE seen a lot
of the world, but
Aussie’s best after all.
'Chose your sentiments ?
Now apply them to A us-
tralian-made garments,
and you’ll not go wrong.
PELACO Collars are
made in Australia.
c Chey are distinctive,
durable, and faultless in
fit. 'Cheir quality is not
matched anywhere.
All Mercers.
COLLARS
Made in Australia
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what th/e Weston
Course is, and why
Weston 1 uition is
the mosC success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEß E’S
MONEIf
IN
THE
PEN.’*
TH E HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
115 VI aitham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
. FOR
AnCH'TECTS ARTISTS. DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
IB
mA SHE
Perfection
rubber
Pocket Stock-knife— made by Harrison Bros. &
Howson, Sheffield, Eng. Three strong blades (skinning,
castrating and foot-rot). Best quality steel.. 1/1/
Alwaj'S gives satisfaction. POST FREE
Manufacturers’ Selling Agency, 8 Spring St., Sydney.
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical
All Balcony Rooms.
If any illustration appearing in Tna
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Lieut.-Colonel S. J. Goble has been
appointed Air Service adviser (temporary)
to the Navy Board at a salary of £3 a day.
A good Australian, but he had to go away to
get the job. Formerly on the clerical side
of Vie. Railways, he was denied entrance
into our own Air Service, paid his pas-
sage to Fogland and joined up with the
R.N.A.S., where he soon worked his way to
the front and collected almost all the deco-
rations worth having. ,
3730
SKF
/////
r\
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearings
On motor traction of every type-
cycle, car or truck —S.K.F. Self-
Aligning Ball Bearings are giving the
acme of service.
In fact wherever strains are greatest
—where dependability is vital —-
S.K.F Ball Bearings are almost uni-
versally used. You should be sure
to specify S.K.F. They are your most
definite guarantee of reliability, dura-
bility, efficiency and economy.
Prices and full particulars from
c
pi
BPISBANE 1
Melbourne:
Melbourne: 384 City Road.
Showrooms: 36.9 Flinders Street.
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane: 367 Queen Street.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustvalla
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1918
LIABILITIES.
£ b d
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate 50,823,659 10 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 1,455,358 0 8
Savings Bank Department—
Depositors’
Balances £15,922,954 3 5
With Interest
accrued 202,096 6 7
16,125,050 10 0
Capital-Debentures Issued
. Reserve Fund .. ~ 767,148 15 9
Redemption Fund .. .. ... 767,148 15 9
69,938,365 12 10
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits per Contra 191,305 16 0
£70,132,671 8 10
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 5,832,270 10 10
Australian Notes .. .. .. 15,751,256 0 0
Money at Short Call in London 12,215,000 0 0
Investments—
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£8,674,659 17s. Bd.) .. 8,561,753 1 0
Com’wealth Gov’nient Securi-
ties (face value, £7,263,660 10s) 7,185,540 4 8
Fixed Deposits of other Banks 1,089,000 0 0
Bills Iteceivable in London and
Remittances in Transit . 1,139,286 0 8
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers and
other sums due to the Bank .. 17,857,797 19 2
Bank Premises 306,461 16 6
£69,938,365 12 10
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra . .. .. 194,305 16 0
£70,132,671 8 10
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
£ s d
To Reserve Fund 229,13 r, 12 4
„ Redemption Fund .. .. 229,135 12 4
£458,271 4 8
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
£ s d
To Balance 767,148 15 9
£767,148 15 9
£ s d
538,013 3 6
By Balance..
~ Transfer from Profit and Boss
Account of one half of the
Net Profits .. .... .. 229,135 12 4
£767,148 15 9
REDEMPTION FUND.
Cr.
£ s d
By Balance 538,013 3 6
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one half of the
Net Profits 229,135 12 4
£767,148 15 9
Gold Coin held for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
The Bank also holds in Gold Coin for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth
£13,743,040 0 0
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
H. T. ARMITAGE, Chief Accountant,
D. B. MURDOCH,
DENNISON MILLER,
Governor.
Sydney, 27th March, 1919
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 20 of the Commonwealth Bank Act, 1911-1914, I
have to report that the Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for tire
half-year ended 31st December, 1918, has been examined by officers under my direction, as well
as by myself. The several items of the account, as above set forth, have been verified with the
books and vouchers, with the Securities held by the Bank, and with Statements certified by’ the
respective Managers and Accountants of the Bank.
I have obtained all the information and explanations required by me. The said Balance Sheet
has been prepared in the form prescribed by the Regulations under the Act, and, in my opinion, it
exhibits a correct view of the affairs of the Bank.
I have also to report that the sum of £13,743,040 above set forth was held by the Bank in Gold
Coin for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
4th April, 1919. J. W. ISRAEL, Auditor-General for the Commonwealth
safeguard You* HEALTH
ptJ.Collls Brot^jj
CWorodyM
The Original and Only Gennine.
THE HEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough o£ BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
rnrir
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
0/ ail Chemist ». Prices in England, 1/S, Sl-, »/'•
Hade in England.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
D. Sight: No use unless you can give
particulars of those cases.... Man in the Street:
Much too wordy. Let it simmer: we only want the
gravy.... Les: Exhausted that subject a few months
ago.... Line Clear: All 01d....F.W.: Well, if “a
little bird chirruped” all that in your ear it must
have had some trouble to get through the thistles.
....John: That trade journal should have known
bettor. Don’t care to rub pickle into the sore....
Billo: Don’t know; write to the Health Department.
...•Mrs. Lance It.: Too vague. Mentioned the early
’5O crowd to some ancients on Poverty Point, but
they couldn’t remember.... Senex: Thanks; but
some of your dates are wrong.... Ioni: Right; glad
to hear from you... .F.L.8.: Unable to say what the
total was, but over 1000, according to “Haydn’s
Dictionary of Dates,” were transported to the plan-
tations as slaves after the Monmouth rebellion....
W. W. Sydney: (1) Don’t know the most likely dis-
trict to find the kangaroo mouse; (2) albino....
Jerry: Yes, will look at pars, from anywhere.
Sample to hand not what we want.... W.J.F.: Far
too long and nothing new in it James 0.: Yles.
. ...Ki-wi: Where did you get that handwriting?
....Thirty-six: Oh, no. It was the non-manufac-
turing country which got hit right through the war.
Even in little Liberia public services had to be cut
down by a third and the salaries of those who kept
their jobs had to be reduced.. ..C.P.: Not up....
Jolino: The yarn lias no focus or point, and the in-
cidents in themselves lack humor. .. .R.J.J.A.:
Wanted a firmer touch. .. .A.D.: The satire is
obscure... .11.5.: “Sarah” is too careless a lady....
J.T.A.: Material for a yarn, but you haven’t woven
it A.P.T.: Not for us D.A.: it is worse than
most... .D.V.: “Jean Jaques” and “Robert Sheldon”
don’t interest us.... Doc: People who send in copy
written in pencil on sheets as big as a blanket
don’t want a hearing. .. .C.S.G.: Not quite enough
in the trouser yarn.... Mrs. Binks: Don’t like it.
. ...Zex: Too slight... .L.C.D.: Doesn t it strike
you that it wastes time when you send us stuff that
you don’t expect to be printed?... .D. 8.1.: No use.
. ...T.T.: The yarn is old and popular. .. .S.W.S.:
Stupid thing... .W.E.8.: No, thank y0u....C.C.:
You own the worst typewriter in Australia....
C.M.L.: “Burglars and Babies” misses... .Dingo:
Poor verse with nothing in it....M.M.: Rather an
overworked theme. ... B.: Verses poor and thin....
T. J.L.: Not enough in it....A.C.: “The Digger”
makes no appeal in that shape. .. .J.C.: Not up.
Write on. one side of the paper.... E.D.: We don’t
reprint. Anyhow, couldn’t you get a theme a little
fresher than a general review of the Kaiser?...,
E.C.N.: Whirling effort that. Change the brand..,,
Bellerive: Nothing like the direct method:—•
I’m innocent, pleaded a wretched youth,
From the dock on the day of he’s trial,
Unheeded by Judge and officials in
Their hardened and usual style;
Guilty was the verdict of the jurymen,
And the prisoner with bated breath
Grasped the rail of the felon dock
When grimly sentenced to death.
While under arrest a housebreaker confessed
That he was the reprobate.
Which lifted the shadow of the rope
From a life on the thread of fate.
The ghastly truth of the awful deed
From the lips of the guilty one,
From (he torturous hell of the fatal cell
Did rescue the innocent one.
. ...S.G.: Poor effort to achieve the commonplace.
./... R.W.: Find out what verse is. Your present
attempt is five lines of insane prose... .E.L.:
To insure a swift passage to the basket always write
so that you can’t be read. ... A.H.: An old gag
rehashed.... R.W. M.: “Killed in Action” makes very
dull reading. .. .N.R.: Only says the old things in
poor verse... .C.J.W.: Not nearly up... .11.C.M.:
■ Very poor stuff... .A.C.: Not up by some distance.
. ...S.J.: Looks insane... .11. Z.: “The Zephyr’s
“Revenge” is altogether too thrilling. Try the
“Garbage Tin’s Bigamy” next. .. .V.C.L.: There’s
promise in it. Try again in two years or 50....
J.A.W.: “Mountain Side” presents too easy a slope.
.... Homere: Clever enough. Leave those trick
verse forms and try something real.... W.L.: You
can write; so suppose you write about something.
. ...J.T.S.: The verse is as poor as the view ex-
pressed... .N.M.M. (probably): We don’t reprint.
. ...A.J.M.: No use. You’ll have to learn the game
before you can play it... .N.T.: Not up... .O.B.:
“Our Belgian Heroes” is a trifle late, but there is
no mistaking the original quality of the verse:—
See how these Belgians fought in pain,
To stop the Huns from making a name;
They fought up to their necks in bog and rain,
Now they have realised their glorious fame.
Now they have the Huns on the run,
You will hear the Hun give a grunt;
For it’s the Belgians’ turn to have their fun,
To enjoy themselves in the hunt.
May they bog them in the Rhine,
So as they will never more shine ;
To give the Belgians all that is fine,
And there to enable them to define.
. ...N.V.W.: Sorry; but there isn’t enough in the
article. .. .Mrs. Binks: No.. . .Secanb: Everything
we print is paid for. Clip out contribution, or
identify it, with date and page, and send to account-
ant.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.P.: “Cartoon of Hindenburg, in a pose repre-
senting the quintessence of dejection, disappointment
and despair,” received. Have located everything
except Hindenburg... .P.M.: Hopeless... .Matt
Mack: Promising drawing; but the joke isn’t one.
. ...A.C.M.: Why waste good Bristol-board ?....
R.C.S.: Not within cooee of acceptance... .J.0.R.:
Where did you copy it from?... .A.G.: Not nearly
good enough; but one will do as a suggestion....
W.S.R.: Feeble scratchings... .E.D.11.: You type
better than you draw... .S.N.: Some promise; but
still a long way to g 0.... J.W.: Don’t doubt that you
drew them “from imagination a10ne.”... .L.W.: If
you will scratch, try Australian jokes... .H.C.S.:
Yes, only an “extreme amateur.”... .Wog: Misses.


Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—-until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Corns
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
FB
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic,. safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
Coughs and Sneezes
Soread Diseases
-J
Stiff
z
\ VI 1
'4
'Wa
Ox\
V,
7*
■ y-
■SSi
r?
(TP
O?
£5
o
r^S
CfO-
-2
23
-?£3
*sr
rrt'S
o
c
cP
rn
C^ 3
■2
CP-
c-a>
>
jChf**S»
/
Beware 0* deadly germs
mfluenza is a germ disease, spread by
human contact chiefly through coughing,
sneezing and spitting.
Keep up your strength with good food and
open air exercise. Keep your bowels regular
with Chamberlain’s Tablets.
Above all keep free from colds by taking
an occasional dose of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It loosens the phlegm makes
breathing easier—stops coughing and sneez-
ing —clears away the mucus, the breeding
place foi germs.
tyjpusi* J'fecdtfc
Chamberlains
COUGH HEMEOY
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when -.his remedy is at hand all danger
jtay be avoided.
15e Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. ' Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grams
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
0
forHorlicFcs
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
( Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Biles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Rox, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
For our sick and wounded
boys.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Dep6t, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
ft •>
HI
in turn demands a
Ask your Agent.
High speed—
scorching, some
people call it
is rarely, if ever, a
pleasure but at times
it’s an essential. Then
comfort even safety
BROOKS
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thills' in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THE, “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centum*.
ISDNGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
(Jsed sincere." CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton’s "—refuse all substitutes.
QUEENSLAND:
THE KEY TO »
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land _
Particulars ot the
millions ot acres ol
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
Slate's resources—
FREE
/Vame—
Address
Queensla&d Goverancftt
Utetfijeace i&d Tourist Burew
BRISBANE
8.8.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Amusement*.
I* IVOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY evening AT 8.
hugh d. Mclntosh presents the reigning
SUCCESS OF LONDON,
THE BETTER ’OLE.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
UEIt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
* ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 19.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
AVIATION MUSICAL PLAY.
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EAT It E ROYAL. MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 19.
•T. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD. present Everybody's
Favorite,
MURIEL STARR, in
THREE FACES EAST,
Preceded bv
THE MONKEY’S PA ML
If ING’S THEATRE. ME L B OUR NE.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT Present the Brilliant American
Success,
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT- OF QUEENSLAND.
IN THE MATTER of an Action wherein The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited is Plaintiff
and James Richard Ilanly is Defendant and numbered
109 of 1919.
To JAMES RICHARD MANLY the ahovenamed
defendant.
TAKE NOTICE that on the eighteenth day of March
One thousand nine hundred and nineteen a Writ of
Summons was issued in the above action which
claimed ■ the sum of £5Oll 4s. Id. for principal
and interest due under the covenants in a Bill of
Mortgage dated the fifth day of August One
thousand nine hundred and eleven and made
between yourself and Thomas Martin Ilanly,
John Matthew Hanly, Morris Patrick Ilanly and
Paul .Joseph Ilanly of the one part and the Plaintiff
of the other part. AND TAKE NOTICE that by
an Order dated the twenty-eighth day of March One
thousand nine hundred and nineteen it was ordered
that service of a copy of the order and of the writ
of summons by sending copies thereof by prepaid
post letter addressed to you at Kaimkillenbun via
Dalhy and by advertising Notice of the writ and of
this order in two consecutive issues of the Queens-
lander a newspaper published at Brisbane in the
State of Quensland and The Bulletin a newspaper
published at Sydney in the State of New South
Wales should be deemed good service of tire said
writ of summons on you. AND TAKE NOTICE, that
in default of you causing an appearance to be entered
for you at the Registry of the Supreme Court at
Brisbane within eight days after the last of such
advertisements the plaintiff may proceed in the
said action and judgment may he given against
you in your absence.
Dated this thirty-first day of March, 1919.
(1.5.) CHAS. S. NORRIS,
Registrar.
J. F. Fitz Gerald & Walsh, Solicitors for plaintiff,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
1 MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION. No. 11l of 1919.
MR. JUSTICE REAL
Between MAURICE VINCENT LAWLER Plaintiff
and ANNIE RANTOLE LAWLER Defendant
TO THE DEFENDANT ANNIE RANTOLE LAWLER
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the twenty-
first day of March 1919 commenced against you and
that the plaintiff by his writ of Summons claims a
dissolution of his marriace with you And by his
petition .filed in this Honorable Court on the twenty-
first day of March 1919 the plaintiff alleges that on
the twentv-fourth day of March 1918 and on other
dates unknown to the plaintiff you committed adul-
tery with a person unknown to him and prays to
have the custody of his child GO It DON' VINCENT
LAWLER and take notice that the Court as by.
orders dated the twenty-fourth day of March 1919
and the ninth day of April 1919 authorised service of
the said writ and petition on you by fixing on the
notice board in the Registry of this Honorable Court
at Brisbane an office copy of the writ of summons
issued herein and the office copy of the petition
filed herein and the insertion of tin’s notice twice in
the Sydney Bulletin once in the Brisbane Courier
and once in the Brisbane Telegraph within forty-
two days front the date of the said order and by
leaving with Mrs. Isabel MacDonald, McNab Street
Rosalie near Brisbane a copy of the petition enclosed
in an envelope addressed to you and showing on the
outside that it is a copy of a petition for divorce and
by giving notice of such last mentioned service h.v
letter addressed to you care of Miss Castles Wickham
Terrace Brisbane and take notice that you are
required within twenty-one days from the perform-
ance of the last act required by the aforesaid order
to cause an appearance to be entered for you at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane and that in default of your so doing the
plaintiiff may proceed in this action and that judg-
ment may he given against you in your absence.
Dated the eleventh day of April 1919.
(1.5.) OKAS. S. NORRIS, Registrar.
W. J. McGRATH Solicitor for Plaintiff,
272 Queen Street, Brisbane.
In the Intestate Estate of Thomas
Gillece, late of Bingara, in the State
of New Soutli Wales —Deceased.
ANYONE knowing tho present where-
abouts of the widow and children of
THOMAS GILLECE, who died at Bingara
on the 20th day of April, 1918, please com-
municate with the undersigned. Deceased
was married on the Bth of January, 1879, at
Spring Valley, Bingara District, N. S.
Wales.
T. W. GARRETT,
Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagli Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
28th March, 1919-
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees HEN AND JOHN FULLER.
Sole Direction FRANK RIGO.
LAST WEEKS OF RIGO CO.
Forthcoming Productions.
PIERRETTE,
Fritz Hart's Fantastic Opera,
and
MARITA AA.
Popular Prices. G. D. PQRTUS, General Manager.
PL,AYH O U S E, MELBOURNE.
Commencing EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 19.
MATINEE EASTER MONDAY.
Denis Kehoe’s Irish Players in
MOTHER MACHREE.
Maurice Weldons’ Comedy Drama in 3 Acts, with songs.
*/-> 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, plus tax. Box Plan at Glen’s.
|yj A,J ES TIC T H EAT RE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE,
In the New Select Picture.
HER ONLY WAY.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
I)E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ENID BENNETT iu
A DESERT WOOING.
THEDA BARA in ROSE OF BLOOD.
Prices as usual.
gT VERY REEL A REAL ATTRACTION,
METRO FILMS.
SHOWING THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
IVI ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including*
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATH IC,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
g HIT ANN l A THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
VON
TYRES.
M ore Miles for Your Money
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
For Sale.
IN THE MATTER OP
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
TENDERS.
For Sale as a Going Concern.
TENDERS are invited and will be received by die
undersigned at the Office of Inglis, Cruikshank
and Creasey, Commercial Bank Chambers, Patterson-
street, Launceston, up to 3 p.m. on Monday. 2Sth
April, 1919, for the purchase of the Daily Tki.k-
gbaph Newspaper and the Job Printing Business and
Premises.
Newspaper and Printing Machinery .. £4,813
Newspaper and Printing Plant .. 1,448
Stock, News and Printing Paper, etc. .. 1,335
Office Furniture, Fittings, etc. .. .. 300
Freehold Premises .. .. .. .. 3,000
£10,897
The above well-known Newspaper has been estab-
lished for over 38 years. It circulates all over
Tasmania and has a very large and valuable advertis-
ing connection, which is steadily improving.
The Jobbing Business has been steadily increasing-
for several years and is capable of further extension.
The Premises are situated in the centre of the
city and are well adapted for carrying on the busi-
ness, and there is ample room for any extension.
Tenders sealed and marked “Tender” addressed to
the undersigned must be accompanied by cheque
covering deposit of 10 per cent. No Tender neces-
sarily accepted.
Stock Sheets may be inspected on the Premises.
Any further particulars may be obtained from
ALEX. T, CRUIKSHANK,
Liquidator.
Inglis, Cruikshank and Creasey, Accountants,
Launceston.
SECOND-HAND
FARM MACHINERY
For Sale.
One Four-wheeled “BIG-FOUR” Oil
Tractor, powered with 60 brake-horsepower 4-
cylinder Oil Engine, complete, and in first-class
condition.
One “HOLT” Caterpillar Oil Tractor,
powered with 60 h.p. 4-cylinder Oil Engine. Prac-
tically new.
One 20 brake-horsepower “BLACK-
STONE” Kerosene Engine, complete, in
good order.
Inspection can be arranged.
For full particulars and prices, apply
ELDER. SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
m
aw
3'*'
M
• •
-
THAT JOB WILL LAST
Paint must be judged by its endurance—and
by the protection it gives. So with Varnish.
The test of time gives unquestionable proof of
the wearing quality of
Sherwin-Willia ■ S
Paints S- Varnishes
For more than 50 years Sherwin-Williams
Products hav g e given the utmost satisfaction
COVER
THE
EARTH
r\/\
m*
U Lf
to painter and property-owner, demonstrating by their
great covering capacity and extreme durability under all
climatic conditions the practical economy of choosing
Sherwin-Williams Products for every Painting purpose.
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO. (Australia) LTD .
Head Office: 63 Pitt Street, Sydney. Agents everywhere.
Business Notices.
EXCLUSIVE STYLES
in
Gent.’s 8 Ladies’ Coats
MADE IN ANGOLAS and
HOMESPUNS.
*
Also in the CELEBRATED
BURBERRY GABARDINE.
PRICES FROM £6/10/-
HUNT’S,
314 George Street,
Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
GIBSON’S
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide.
High=class Residential Hotel.
Tariff: 15/- per day inclusive.
&]= per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache
grower. Rub it well intb the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-c a}.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.


iv ns
minima
9
Let Cuticura Care
for Baby’s Skin
It’s really wonderful how quickly a
hot bath with Cuticura Soap followed
by a gentle anointing with Cuticura
Ointment relieves skin irritations
which keep baby wakeful and rest-
less, permits sleep for infant and rest
for mother, and points to healment in
most cases when it seems nothing
would help.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W,” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
m
mas « i
1
ELEY Fowrlong*
A .410 bore 2J inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33 gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY -410
'Universal
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
1 to 5 Tons
Capacities
• Mtofllfl/Ullfilllllil
ES
es
////
Delivery by Lorry is To-day a Necessity!
The crying demand of the world to-day is for goods —
more goods.
Quick deliveries are essential.
You couldn’t do better than put a Federal Lorry to
work for you.
How it will save you money —save you time —and
make your deliveries more certain —will be carefully
explained if you will write us.
I Ton, $l9OO 2 Ton, $2600 5 Ton, $4400
\y 2 Ton, $2350 3% Ton, $3350
A free magazine—“Traffic Ncivs” —will be mailed.
Also full prices and discounts.
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Factory—Detriot, Mick, U.S.A. Foreign Department—lB Broadway, New York.
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a tew drops of
Dhosfori
I THE POYAL TONIC
rino
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
II C-A C. ccr>:
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
owe- ttz=>
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NiCKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Svdney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Bnsbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
HOTEL ESPLANADE,
PERTH’S PREMIER HOTEL.
Facing: the Swan River and Indian Ocean. An ideal situation.
Close to Post Office, Banks, etc.
AIL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
M. A. BEAVOB, Proprietress.
“L.P. J.”: The Profiteer snorted like a
prize Berkshire. “You men,” he said to
the Bloke from the War, “are getting too
particular. Next you’ll be wanting port-
holes in your coffins, to see where you’re
going to.”
Before his departure for England McPher-
son, Vic. State Treasurer, is said to have
refused a seat on a directorate worth £250
a year on the ground that he required all the
time he could spare away from his own busi-
ness for Ministerial work.
After much cogitation Bowser has sold
the Dart, formerly a tender to the John
Murray training-ship, for £1500. The Vic.
Government bought the vessel for £1010, but
she was refitted at a cost of a few hundreds
when it was proposed to send her to look for
two or three members of the wrecked John
Murray crew.
“T.O.I.”: Apropos Parliamentary repre-
sentatives of Castlemaine (B. 3/4/’19). At
one time the district elected an uncertificated
barber named Chapman. He was challenged,
and clearly showed that he was unable to
get his certificate owing to an official assignee
having bolted with the books and cash of
several estates. A special Act was there-
upon passed to benefit the persons thus
stranded. Chapman, however, was still
declared ineligible, and the seat was vacated.
Major Fred Bolingbroke, who presided at
a big meeting of returned soldiers in Bris-
bane held to give the State Government the
straight-wire about its indifference to the
Russian red-flaggers, left Queensland with
the 5th A.L.H. as a lieutenant. An English-
man, he had put in years on A. P. Co.
stations, principally in S.W. Queensland.
His D.S.O. was won at the first battle of
Gaza, when he helped to capture an Aus-
trian battery of 5.9 howitzers. He was on
the Peninsula before that.
“T.O.I.” : The 17th of March was the cen-
tenary of the discovery of St. Patrick’s (now
Patrick’s) Plains by a party led by John
Howe, a free settler who had arrived in
Sydney with his daughter in 1801. He had
a grant on the Hawkesbury. More grazing
land was wanted, however, and in October,
1818, a small party started to find it.
These pioneers were John Howe, George
Lodger (his son-in-law), Andrew Loder,
Thomas Dargin, Benjamin Singleton, two
servants (Milward and Berry) and an
aboriginal. On Patrick’s Day they sat
down on the plains which still carry the
name.
“Harrison 0,” : One effect of the ’flu scare
has been the encouragement of a widespread
superstition concerning the prophylactic
virtues of stink. The popular belief is that
while cleanliness may be next to godliness,
in a time of crisis smellfulness beats both.
Eucalyptus, menthol and camphor are as
violets compared with the 968 plain and
fancy stinks, of an average 17 camfel-power,
which may be encountered on trains and
trams in Melbourne in a day. Any peri-
patetic miscreant who approaches the aver-
age suburban housewife and brings her pongs
of Araby can rely upon a hearty welcome.
The person who invents a preparation which
combines the famous Jensen bouquet with
the perfume of a boiling-dow 7 n works will run
the risk of making a fortune.
“F.F.”: The report that Bishop Cleary,
of Auckland (M.L.), has been flying over his
diocese in a seaplane brings to the memory
a small, spare man scorching up and down
the hills of Dunedin on one of the first
motor-cycles the town had ever seen. That
was before the red hat was reached, and he
was Dr. Cleary, of the Tablet. He was
an engineer, and when the “sports” got into
difficulties with a new car, it was the thing
to ring up the shabby newspaper office in
the Octagon, and ask the Doctor to kindly
step around. He didn’t get his bishopric
for that, though. Dr. Cleary is a great
scholar who absorbs languages like a blot-
ter soaks up ink. When last seen demol-
ishing the Bible-in-schools arguments he
was still a small, spare man with a delicate
face and a weak throat.
The most remarkable Crusoes in Austral-
asian history were probably three sealers
who spent seven years, from 1810 to 1817,
on the Snares, away to the south of Maori-
land. Captain Keith, of the schooner
Adventure, sailing out of London, found
himself short of provisions when he had
finished sealing, and told four of the crew
that they could either go on the Snares or
starve afloat. They were put ashore with
half a bushel of potatoes, a quart of rice and
an iron pot, and there three of them (one
died) stayed till 1817, when Captain Coffin,
of the Yankee whaler Enterprise, picked
them un and carried them to Sydney.
According to Coffin, the potatoes had done
well and covered nearly all one side of the
island. About the same time five men, one
of whom was a Sydney-side blackfellow, put
in a long spell, two of them five years and
three of them a little less, on the Solanders,
near the entrance to Foveaux Strait. They
planted potatoes, too.
“H.S.” : With the arrival of influenza in
a dangerous form a chance offers to
young women who specialised in white
feathers during the war. The front-
line trenches have been transferred from
Flanders to their own doors. All they
have to do is to grab their packs and
move up. Many of the men whom
they shamed into enlisting performed this
unpleasant ceremony every other week
for years. Some of them went “over the
top” in the cold grey of the morning and
never came back. Every girl who volun-
teers to work in a hospital, or to nurse in a
poverty-stricken home that has been invaded
by ’flu, goes “over the top” in a very real
fashion. But how many of the white-feather
distributors are likely to do anything of
the sort? It is a melancholy fact that
this class is among the last, usually, to face
danger or discomfort. The poor will help
each other in the wonderfully generous and
unselfish way that is characteristic of them;
and the girls who have been toiling un-
obtrusively for the general good all through
the war will step into the line. But failing
a series of Influenza Days and Pneumonia
Bazaars, some of the most vehement patriots
we have are unlikely to take an active part
in the proceedings


Stella
has made
3 Records
(comprising 7 selections)
for
sss
m
mm
m
i
m
m.
The NEW EDISON
—the only instrument in existence that can actually “re-create”
the human voice, faultlessly, accurately.
Madame Stella Power sings exclusively for The NEW EDISON.
This charming Australian singer—a protegee of Dame Melba—is
again delighting audiences in her homeland.
Get these perfect records of her most characteristic studies—then
hear the great artist herself.
Order now from this list:—
80100.
(a) BLACKBIRD'S SONG (Scott).
(b) SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME
(Dvorak).
UNA VOCE POCO EA (A Little Voice I
Hear). 11 llarbiere Di Siviglia (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
Full details, post free.
80401.
CHARMANT OIBEAU (Thou Brilliant
Bird). Pa Perle Du Bresil (David).
In French.
SPRING (George Henschel).
80402.
BED UAGGIO DUSINGHEIR (Bright
Gleam of Hope). Semiramide (Ros-
sini). In Italian.
NYMPHES ET SYDYAINS (H. Bemberg).
In French,
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Svdney
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of. evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd., ‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
Placed First
in order of merit by doctors, nurses, and mothers, through-
out the world ; prescribed by British doctors for 35 years;
used in all great hospitals, and convalescent homes ; ordered
by the Australian Red Cross for the Anzac hospitals.
This is the record of
Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
Different from other foods and most highly nutritive,
invaluable for backward and ailing children, in illness and
convalescence, and for aged persons.
food to prepare. The changes it undergoes teach a lesson
In human digestion. It is all explained m our book, post free. Every mother should read it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD.,
BRA CH OFFICE:
117, Pitt
MANCHESTER, Eng’and.
Street, SYDNEY.
Depfits throughout CANADA.
y-L
CRICKET
SEASON 1919.
Our stock comprises everything
for the Game. Now showing a
fine range of materials by the
world’s leading makers.
For full particulars of Cricket and all indoor
and outdoor Sporting Materials see a copy of
our new edition Sportsman’s Guide. Post
free to any address.
SmoKe SUNOL
Sample 2oz. Packet
1/2 Post Free.
MEN’S BATS.
Each.
Men’s Cane-handle Bats (job line) ... 12/6
M.S., Haymarket Driver, double rubber 207-
City & Suburban Sport Co 35/-
(C.S. Sport Co.’s bats are specially faced
for Australian wickets, and require no
preparation before using,)
Dye’s Champion, specially selected .... 35 /.
Bats retail from 21/- are guaranteed.
MEN’S LEG GUARDS.
ir.
White Drill, strong 7 /q
Tan, continuous straps, good club guard 1.0/6
Tan, continuous straps, ventilated 13/6
Gold Cape, cont. straps, superior 12/9
Half Skeleton, Gold Cape, new pattern.. 15/6
Half Skeleton, White Buck 17/6
Best Skeleton, Gold Cape 17/6
Best Skeleton, White Buck 20/-
Gold Cape, ex. quality for wicketkeepers. . 1 7 /Q
CRICKET BALLS.
All Match Weights, viz., 6*oz.
„ Each.
Eclipse Compo., 3/6; Eclipse Victory.. 4/.
C. 8.8. Compo ~,, 1/6
Haymarket Compo. 2/6
Diamond Compo 3/6
Nicholson’s 5/6
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES.
Pair.
featherweight, felt protection 7/(>
')hite. Kid, Gold, cape points, hair-stuffed 8/0
Superior, ex. stout tubular rubber 10/0
Surry Shields, R. or L. Hand 6/6
MEN’S GAUNTLETS.
Pair.
' entilated, very strong 8/6
All England, rubber palms, padded tips 17/6
Celebrated Lilley, padded tips 21 /-
M -S. Special, rubber palms 25/-
The Giant Special 32/6
MEN’S STUMPS.
Set of 6.
Blackwood, very strong, plain 3/6
Brass Top, steel shod, ash 7/6
Half Solid Brass Top, steel shod 0/.
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash 10/-
Revolving Top, steel shod, ash 12/6
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Abdominal Pads 3/., J()/6 each
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas 4/6 each
Bat Oil specially prepared 1/6 bottle
Canvas Boots, welted soles 12/6 pair
Club Kit Bags 17/6 each
Cricket Belts, two straps 1/3 each
Cricket Nets .......... 50 /., 60 /. each
Gripolene, gauntlet, solutibn 1/6 bottle
Handle Rubbers ... 1/., ] /3. 1/6, 1/9 each
Scoring Books, full size .. 1/., 1/6, 2/-each
Scoring Books, pocket siae, 6d , 1/-, 1/3 each
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
l■ II - Will II
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket
Bats, Skates, Golf Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse
Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired by expert
Workmen. First-class Workmanship. Lowest Charges.
>
N
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR TIIE GAME.
RACKETS.
Conqueror
Avre’s Champion ....
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s Ich Dien . .
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty ...
Slazenger’s Stadium ..
Prosser’s Phenomenon ..
Davis His ley Hexagon..
Lambert Chambers ....
30/-
31/-
70/-
85/-
45/-
57/6
65/-
65 /-
67/6
67/6
65/-
(Postage on Racket —N.S.W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Spalding's Champ. 2/2 25/-
Tournamgnt •-•-1/9 20/-
Ayre’s and Slazenger’s 1919 Champion Balls,
35/- dozen.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size— 2l/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Tennis Nets under 40/- are suitable for school use.
PRESSES, MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
Rackets Re-strung and Repaired.
1C
mjsTMLrn's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
nm> tobacconists
sm
n
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
liewc&stk £ Brisbane)
*9 A


A BONNY REXONA BABY.
Z,i7//c HAZEL MARSH, 15 months old
(from a photo).
Is Your Little One a
Rexona Baby, too ?
Mother-wisdom knows that the little one
could not croon that baby-song of happiness
unless she was clean and cool,and comfortable
in every fibre of her little body, book at the
bonnie limbs, feel the firm flesh, touch the
velvet cheeks. Can’t you guess? She’s a
Rexona baby, of course. Each day mother
bathes her little treasure with pure Rex3na
Soap, the Baby’s Own Soap, that < destroys
disease germs and keeps the tender skin clear
and healthy. She keeps colds, rashes, chafing
and other baby-ills far from her. Baby is
the best thing she has, and the best of soaps is
only just good enough for her. That is why
she is a Rexona Baby. See?
“I am enclosing six Rexona Soap Wrappers.
Will you please send two bubble-pipes ' for
same?
“I have been using Rexona Soap and Oint-
ment for some years now, and 1 think they are
both excellent preparations. My two little
girls, Edna and Hazel, have very clear com-
plexions, thanks to Rexona Soap since birth.
“I find Rexona Ointment splendid
for healing the many scratches and
bruises that children are subje ct to.
“1 am also sending photo of our
youngest girl, Hazel, ageVl 15 nnonths.”
I am.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) (Mrs.) R. Tj. MARSH,
202 Rocket Street, Batburst.
REXONA SOAP—a Treat for the
A morning: bath with Itexona Soap is not only a pleasure, bnt a health-giving:
habit. The essences anil juices which have made Rexona, the rapid-healing: Oint-
ment, a household necessity, are introduced into Rexona Soap, and in your bath
are absorbed into the skin of the whole body. The result is skin health and skin
protection. When the pores have absorbed the pure aroma of the herbs embodied
in Rexona Soap, one is protected from colds or disease. Rexona Soap is a favorite
with the most fastidious, and with the most prudent of people.
Price !/• Per Tablet*
o
O
0
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
jS
&
us
£>3
<V)Jj
VU U u
*5
saSs
a
«
n
■
sssffl^a
ni
jjjjjjj
Present
delay
means
future
delay
Only by ordering your post-war
Sunbeam now can you be sure of
early delivery when we are again
able to build private cars. Delay
now on your part means unavoid-
able delay then. The marked
supremacy of the world-famous
SUNBEAM
cars in every branch of war service
evidences our ability to produce the
finest type of car after the war, and the
demand in consequence is greater than
ever before in the firm’s history. This
is no mere advertising phrase but literally
true. Therefore if you intend to own a
Sunbeam, order your post-war model now
The Sunbeam Motor Gar Go., Ltd.
Export Department: 54-62 Oxford St., London, Eng.
Head Office ... Wolverhampton, England
The Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY love sang where the water-lilies
blow—
All lull of blossoms were her lianas
of snow—
And round her naked ankles, rippling white,
The water lingered, listened, loth to go.
Her face was upward turned ; her hair, brown
gold,
Blew to her knees, and from a creamy fold
Of lace her white throat shone. Her eyes
were wide,
Grey, darkly lashed and fringed—but, ah ! so
cold
To me ; and yet alone I heard her song 1 .
I stole and hid it, and I own no wrong.
Deep in my heart it lies, to comfort me
When hope is fainting, the probation long.
“I love my love," she sang all clear and high,
“Because I know, although the seas run dry,
My love loves me—my love, my love loves me
Though the moon comes not and the planets
die.”
My little girl, singing alone and sweet
Of what you know not, when I kiss your feet
And hold you close, at lust you’ll understand
That Love indeed is Love, when lovers meet.
* * * *
I saw him vyaiting where the tall trees creep
Down to the pool and quiver in the deep.
The blue sky smiled above, and smiled below.
Between two heavens he stood, to watch and
keep.
Here is a picture painted for my dear,
And here a song, a message for his ear,
His only. Wait for me, beloved, awhile—
’Tis sweet to linger when the goal is near.
And so I stole away and left him there
To dream. He knows not that I greatly care.
He fears, to fright me, for he loves me so.
He longs to tell me, yet lie will not dare.
A little longer, he shall think me cold—
A little longer, he will grow more bold.
How cool the lilies, pink and white and
green,
And yet a glowing heart they soft enfold.
My love stepped from the trees and met me
fair;
He searched my eyes and found no coldness
there.
The fair, pale lilies glowed at my delight—
Ah, love indeed is love, when lovers dare !
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
The Great Bird Invention.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. TREGARD, the promoter, sat
behind his desk, gazing solemnly at
Wastick, the inventor. Tregard was
round, rosy, hairless and of a complexion
that suggested a baby heated to redness in a
too-hot bath. lie appeared to be made of
puddings, and in that regard was the oppo-
site of Wastick. The inventor, a yellow-
faced, wliite-moustached man with a skin as
loose and full of wrinkles as the hide of a
starved elephant, lifted high the canvas
stretched on a frame like an elongated tennis
racket ending in a half-crescent like to the
half of the sail of a lakatoi. Wastick brought
down the point of the canvas frame violently
groundward; but at a foot above the floor
the compression of air and the sic-kled curve
of the canvas of its extremity upheld the
frame and changed its downward to a for-
ward movement.
“You see,” said Mr. Wastick in very cor-
rect and stilted English, with an accent that
did not prefer Oxford to Cambridge, “here is
an exact imitation of the wing of a bird, but
ah —improved over the crudities of —ah—
nature. You will notice that what takes
place when the bird’s wings beat the air is
precisely that which happens when I strenu-
ously beat this canvas wing towards the—ah
—south. The air being violently compressed
has to assert its elasticity ; its easiest line of
escape—the line of the least resistance, so io
speak—is provided for it in the sickled curve
of the wing points. As in the case of the
bird, the air rushes to the curved extremity,
and as a natural consequence the bird moves
forward, precisely the same action following
the compression of the air by this canvas
frame. Do you see, Mr. Tregard?”
Mr. Tregard saw, and said he saw. He
proceeded to say that it looked all right on
paper, or rather canvas, but would it really
act as a bird, and would it lift appreciable
w-eights outside of itself, which the bird can-
not do to any appreciable extent?
“Will it what?” said Mr. Wastick in a
surprise that was almost contempt. “It will
do exactly that. You see, I make these wings
quadruple—not like a bird’s but like a butter-
fly’s—for the sake of greater stability. The
bird’s tail becomes the rudder. Between the
two principal wings are contained the engines,
The type I have fixed on is the old beam
engine—two beam engines coupled. These
give the steadiest flapping of the wings. All
I w r ant now is sufficient money subscribed to
help me to make a working model for a real
practical demonstration.
“How much?” asked Mr. Tregard.
“Four hundred pounds,” replied Wastick,
glibly, eagerly, wetting his lips as if in anti-
cipation.
“But that won’t build a machine and pay
for engines.”'
“It will not be an engined model, Mr. Tre-
gard. I will construct it for purposes of
demonstration only as a one-manpower
machine. The one-manpower machine will
be one of the biggest lines for our company
when it undertakes construction on a great
scale. The one-man machine will sell like
bicycles. I work it this way, you see ! I
have two wings like this one. My arms will
be braced to four clips on the anterior surfaces
of the wings ; my legs, moving with the regu-
larity of a swimmer, but vertically rather
than horizontally, will assist in the all-impor-
tant matter of the maintenance of —ah—
stability, or let us say equilibrium.”
“And the rudder? How do you steer?”
asked Mr. Tregard.
“Steer, sir?”
“Yes, steer! Your arms are playing beam-
engine on the fore-feet —or fore-wings, I
suppose you’d call them —and your legs are
on active service with the after wings! Then
what the devil do you hold the rudder with?”
“Hold the rudder, sir? How do I steer,
sir?” said Mr. Wastick, and immediately
answered himself grandly : “I steer, sir, with
the tiller-lines held in my teeth—though I
depend mostly on natural direction of weight
steering me. A man walking in a street, sir,
when he wishes to turn a corner needn’t do
it with three feet of paling under his coat-
tail astern. He turns automatically; so will
my invention of the human bird turn in the
air—turn as inevitably as the brain of a
grammarian differs a consonant from a—
what you call it—hyphen ! Yes.”
“It seems —yes, well, quite a good thing,”
said Tregard slowly, as if thinking very in-
tently. “Ye-es, quite a good thing! But it
requires a bigger preliminary capital than
four hundred quid ! You’d require six.”
“Six hundred !” repeated Wastick, the one-
eyed, caring but for his own skin. “Six hun-
dred ! What the devil for?”
“Four hundred for the demonstration ; and
— you,”
“Yes, well?”- f
“A hundred for brokerage. That’s me.”
“That’s you, yes; and the other hundred?”
“For the salary of the company’s secre-
tary.”
“You ?”
“Me! Not I—Mr.”
“It seems terrible,” said Wastick, with such
an air of outraged honesty of purpose that
he immediately confirmed Tregard's earlier
idea of putting up most of the money and at
least taking some of the brokerage and secre-
tary’s salary in share interest. Indeed, he
thought so much of the whole scheme that he
crayfished and haggled, back and filled, and
blew hot and cold, and said “Yes” and "No”
until Wastick had undertaken to hand over
to Tregard as a secret commission half his
inventor’s and promoter’s proportion of paid
shares.
This done—against the law, and properly
safeguarded with all the forms of law
which work mostly to the result of assisting
the law to beat itself —Tregard arose, shook
hands warmly with the jaundiced optimist
—the inventor of the human bird. Then,
having been careful that a stenogra-
pher had taken all the conversation, and
given the secret commission the respecta-
bility of shorthand, he called the typist and
dictated to her the terms of the prospectus
of the Great Bird Invention, which in a .
flash of genius and for prospectus purposes |
he entitled Avariator, Limited. Capital, |
£l5OO in 150 shares of £lO each, of which j
90 shares fully paid up are issued to the
inventor, .J. Thos. Wastick, and 60 shares !
are offered for subscription, payable £5 on
application and £5 on allotment.
This being done Mr. Tregard called up
sundry people on the ’phone, on the axiom
that people believe a telegram more than a
letter, because a telegram is a “hurry up”
and it seems indecent to regard a telegram
coldly ; but, above all. they believe the spoken
word —even the exaggeration of the spoken
word along a dozen miles of wire.
So for an hour Mr. Tregard sweated in
the little telephone box, and made connect-
ions, and lost them again, and recovered
them ; said, “Yes, old man, biggest thing I
know’,” or “Well, you know, nothing certain,
but it seems a good go for the money,”
according to the personal equations of the
men so addressed. And at the end of the
long ’phoning he sat at his desk and wrote
a par for the dailies :
Mr. J. H. Y. Tregard, F.F.1.A., reports the flota-
tion of Avariator, Ltd., capital £l5OO in shares of
£lO each. The Company is formed to adopt the
invention of Mr. J. Thos. Wastick, with its applica-
tion of the principles of bird flight. Tests on a scale
compulsorily small have so far resulted in absolute
success. The work of the new one-manpower machine
which Avariator, Ltd., will construct is regarded with
great interest.
“There you are,” said the pudding-shaped
Mr. Tregard, as he showed the notice to
Wastick, “that will show you what they
think of us! It’s for you now to make ’em
keep interested after the novelty of the show-
hits ’em! Anyhow, whichever way it goes,
Wasty”
“My dear chap, don't call me Wasty, I
beg.”
“If you hadn’t begged like a good dog I’d
never have thought about helping you. Now
what do you do first?”
“Construct the model, my dear chap.”
“And then?”
“Why, I fly.”
“Good business! Meantime I’ve got a
hundred quid for brokerage that the tele-
phone earned and a hundred to come as
secretary’s salary. On with the dance; let
joy be uneonfmed. Get to it. Wastick; dis-
cover who it is that wants to pay me good
money. “Get to it, Wastick ! Get to it!”
Mr. Wastick “got to it” ; he signed agree-
ments, hired a shed at Footscray. bought
canvas, had wood steam-curved to the shape
of the wings, bought copper-wire for stays,
and glue enough to size all the scenery for
a production de luxe of “Midsummer Night’s
Dream.”
As the months walked into the winter—
the one winter of Australia, the red-nosed
winter of Wowserville-on-Yarra—the Board
parted with much good money and received
progress reports in exchange. Highly literary
reports they were; a few lines about struts,
wings, braces and air-displacement and
many columns of whooping about the Em-
pire being served by the great invention o?
Avariator. Ltd.; for Wastick, in the good
ol(f English manner, used the Empire as
the shopkeeper uses it —as advertisement,
cheap and free as the water of life. The
Board began to be querulous as the four
hundred pounds of caoital moved gently to-
wards extinction; and when it turned the
downward slope of the last hundred pounds
(Continued on next page.)


w
IS
X
I
&
i
i
1
>=»*
>'C^
..
flis
A
iz?
5^
gj?
k
mm
ft?
w
'S
* ss
%
-:i<M -:«-.}- /•$
'4y W
oc
20
e<*
5 o
f \
fihese
'children!
were perfectly
'pwredof
''serious
scalp
'/trouble byi
Zaru-Bukft
Alice and\
James,
children of
MwEßoherts
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
Beware of
Substitution:
hen you ask for Zam-Buk Healing* Balm see
that you get it.. Do not be put off with some-
thing which is claimed by your trader as
‘just as good/' because it returns him more
profit. There is NOTHING “j'ust as good” as
the proved. Reliable, ever-ready and effective
Zam-Buk.
HILDREN’S SKIN&SCALP TROUBLES
GRATEFUL MOTHERS PRAISE ZAM-BUK.
MOTHERS find it very difficult to guard against unsightly and distressing diseases of the skin
and scalp among the little ones, especially as some, such troubles are very catching ; and once
they have developed it is more difficult to effect a cure. Eczema—in the familiar form of
scald-head—honey scab, dandruff and ringworm are all affections for which Zam-Buk has
proved most efficacious. Whether the form of the eruption be running sores, dry scabs or
scales, encrustations or bald, inflamed patches, Zam-Buk is alike soothing and curative.
In cases of ringworm Zam-Buk has achieved a most remarkable success. Mothers should
keep Zam-Buk handy, and dress daily any part of skin or scalp which presents the least
suspicion of disease. This course will save the little ones endless pain and their parents
, endless worry and anxiety.
Mrs. E. Roberts, residing at 23 Stevens Street, Adelaide, says:
“W bile my little boy James was teething, abscesses to the number
of 18 broke out on his head, face and hands. As soon
as one abscess appeared and broke another would form.
The doctor prescribed a course of treatment, which
however, did not ease the pain.
“My husband, who had had practical proof o:
the healing powers of Zam-Buk, said we should
try this balm. We obtained a supply from our
local chemist. A soothing sensation was imme-
diately felt, for he ceased to be irritable and
cross. All bad matter was drawn away,
and the healing process set up. We con-
tinued with Zam-Buk until every abscess
was healed.
“My little girl Alice had an outbreak
of sores on her head. We carefully bathed
the thick crusts and then applied Zam-
Buk. Zam-Buk drew all the matter, and
in a short time completely healed the
wounds. Her hair again grew thick and
luxuriantly as soon as the sores were all
removed.”
Ringworms and Scalp Eczema Cured.
Another Mother’s Praise for Zam-Buk.
Telling how Zam-Buk rescued her child
from awful disfigurement, Mrs. Johns, of
183 Palmerston Street, Carlton, Melbourne,
said : “My little girl Constance was attacked
by a nasty eruption, which broke out all
over her head. The sores discharged,
and wherever the matter went fresh sores
appeared. This spreading disease caused
awful suffering, as the itching was almost
unbearable.
“Then we started using Zam-Buk, which
took effect right away. It drew out all bad
matter and soothed the itching and irrita-
tion. In the end Zam-Zuk completely cured
Constance, and now her skin is perfectly
clear and her hair has grown again.
“I have also cured a case of ringworm
with Zam-Buk, while on many occasions I
have used it for minor injuries, and never
know it to fail.”
Zam-Buk is excellent
for Cuts, Bruises, Scalds,
Burns, Kunning Sores,
Bad Legs. Pimples, Blis-
ters, Children’s Sores,
Abscesses, Ringworm,
Rheumatism, Sore Feet,
Boils, Festering Sores,
Swellings, Sprains, Scabs,
Blackheads, Chafings,
Parched Skins, Insect
Stings, Sore Heels, Pois-
oned Wounds and injured
conditions of the skin
generally. 1/6 and 8/6 per
pot. Of all Chemists and Stores.
{
#
SOOTHES & HEALS.
the Board wanted to know, you know. Mr.
Tompsitt’s coat-tails quivered with indigna-
tion as he talked about “hinefficiency” caus-
ing extravagances. Dubbin, the Buttinski
with the quaint society manners of Bethnal
Green, said that everything was “positively
shockun-—undoubtedly”; and when these
two, having sold their fiver’s worth of shares
at a piker’s profit, resigned, the three
remaining directors decided that five «f a
Board was rather large for a company with
a capital reduced fo eighty-seven pounds no
shillings and ninepence, and decided not to
fill the vacancies. There were left Gribble,
the cheerfullest optimist on earth, a man who
would have backed an invention to super-
sede the law of gravity ; Bington, a human
dynamo, always too busy to do any business
and almost too hurried to breathe; and
Molesworth, hairless, long-chinned so that his
mouth was dead-centred in his face, eagle-
nosed, pale blue of eye—pale blue as the
back of a soldier crab —a man not known to
smile.
It was Molesworth who first cast discredit
on the prospects of Avariator, Ltd. When
the credit balance approached eighty pounds
Mr. Molesworth stated his disbeliefs in that
lugubrious fashion that made Bington the
quick-fire humorist say that Molesworth had
been born at Dismalville in the reign of
Marmaduke the Grouch.
“I wish to point out to the gentlemen of
the Board,” said Molesworth in his
best style of lugubriousness, “that Mr.
Wastick’s conduct is not absolutely free
from the elements of suspicion. He
came to us with a yellow face; his nose is
now red—red approaching to purple in cer-
tain lights. When he visited the Board
meeting the other day he came with certain
requisitions for material —the secretary will
cell us what they were.”
Mr. Tregard read the items glibly.
“Fifty yards of canvas, 181b.' half-inch
tacks”
"Tacks! Does he eat tacks? He’s had
nearly a hundredweight since we started.”
“I can’t say, gentlemen. A hundred-
weight of glue”
“Glue! lie’s had a ton of glue. And
copper-wire enough to make a telephone-line
for Wavehill cattle-station. This has got to
stop. I move no more supplies until we
witness a conclusive test.”
Tregard soothed the lugubrious ones; he
had had his brokerage and his salary as
secretary, and it seemed to him that people
who lose their money should lose like
gentlemen, without noise, or threatening in-
quiries, or casting low-mannered doubts on
the character of the thieves. So he sug-
gested waiting just another fortnight; inven-
tors were strange people, genius has the
kink 'of temperament, and so on. The oilier
directors over-ruled Molesworth, and the
Board decided on giving Mr. Wastick more
rope.
But two weeks later Tregard voluntarily
went over to Molesworth and took the other
two directors with him. Wastick had
obtained three pounds ten shillings without
a requisition or voucher, promising to put
the voucher in next day. For three days the
item was voucherless, and then under pres-
sure Wastick tendered the most unconvinc-
ing voucher that ever gave limelight to an
auditor.
“Received,” said the alleged voucher,
“from Avariator, Ltd., the sum of three-
pounds-ten for 1 tack hammer and 281 b. of
glue.”
Tregard’s righteousness was terrific. At
any cost his salary must be preserved, or
the fifty pounds remaining must be his fee
as liquidator. As the result of a Board
meeting he firmly advised Wastick that an
■ immediate demonstration was insisted on,
that the purple tinge on Mr. Wastick’s nose
had caused the Board much mental trouble
and anxiety, and that no further moneys
should be paid to Mr. Wastick by Avaria-
tor, Ltd., as aforesaid, until such test and
demonstration had been made to the satis-
faction of the Board.
Whereat Mr. Wastick, rocking slowly
from his boot-heels to his toes, suggesting
that the rocking-chair was invented by a
drunken man, hiccupped several times and
announced that he would be ready for the
trial in three days.
On a bleak afternoon in June the Board
and the secretary and a few queer share-
holders in Avariator, Ltd., assembled at the
shed in the paddock of Footscray, where
round, nubbly, basaltic stones dotted the
grass as if many thousand skulls showed
through the surface of a battlefield of low-
grade men. It was a shed often inhabited
by cows, which left evidence apparent even
to a Sherlock Holmes; the galvanised-iron
of its roof had in places broken away from
screw and washer and curled up like book-
covers left in the rain for a night and sud-
denly dried in the sun. Mr. Wastick called
the shed his avariodrome, his real inven-
tiveness being in the invention of ridiculous
and unnecessary words.
Mr. Wastick, with his two assistants,
having driven yet a few more tacks and
plastered the joints of the canvas with yet
more glue, raised the ugly and clumsy
avariator to the roof of the shed. It now
showed as a great canvas fly; double-winged
but with a pigeon-tail. The thorax of the
canvas insect became a seat to support the
avariator; in practice, Mr. Wastick ex-
plained, this scat would be taken by the
engines, and the operator would be sus-
pended below the engines.
Mr. Wastick stepped to his place between
the main wings; his assistants strapped his
arms to the central “bones’’ of the wings and
his legs to the central bones of the subsi-
diary wings. They then connected the
pigeon-tail rudder to the tiller lines, and led
the same to Mr. Wastick’s mouth. Mr. Was-
tick raised ills arms, lowered them, and re-
peated the movements; and the main wings
beat the air. That revived drooping confi-
dence; the thing might be all right, after
( “Now. gentlemen,” said Mr. Wastick,
things have been said of me which should
not have been said. I will now,” he con-
tinued, with an air of trampling over his
enemy, “show you that- the insulting re-
marks about eating tacks and embezzling
glue for dessert—l believe Mr. Bington
called it —were unjust to a degree; and I
will now prove to you that an English gen-
tleman doesn’t do that sort of —ah—thing.”
They almost applauded him, his air of out-
raged virtue was so excellently borne.
“I will now, gentlemen,” said Mr. Was-
tick, his nose blue in the biting air, “show
otherwise. In other words, gentlemen, I will
ask my assistants to push me off the sh
I mean, off the avariodrome. Gentlemen, I
will now fly.”
The assistants pushed with a will, Mr.
Wastick helping them by his attempts to
jump. Over the edge of the shed roof came
Mr. Wastick fifteen feet above his share-
holders, flapped his wings, moved his legs in
the air, a burlesque of a bad swimmer in
water, and crashed down to earth and upon
the grass, punctuated with the hard nubbles
of volcanic rock. They gathered around him
anxiously, fearing injury; he arose with a
little blood upon his face, but otherwise
unhurt, and saw a smile on Bington’s face.
Then Mr. Wastick let go. All his hatred
of the native-born flared into his nose and
burned itself out—a lambent flame on au
obscene altar. He called them “colonial
rotters,” and at that they laughed ; and he
called them sons of convicts, and they became
delirious with joy. Murmuring one to
another, “Gentlemen, I will now fly,” they
clasped each other and staggered about the
paddock, drunken with mirth.
Then Wastick went quite mad. He said
he would take the machine to England, a
place inhabited exclusively by gentlemen—
and then he attacked their parentage while
they shrieked with joy at seeing his blood
flow and the indignation of his purple nose ;
until one of the assistants, a humorless per-
son, took the remarks as applying particu-
larly to his own mother, and smote Mr.
Wastick twice upon the jaw, whereat that
gentleman, when they had taken him from
the wreck of the avariator, removed himself
several miles Horn the avariodrome.
On the way to the railway station Tregard
found himself clinging to a man quivering
with merriment. It was Molesworth. All
his trouble and the expense of glue and mil-
lions of half-inch tacks, the spending of
money and the downfall of Wastick, had
brought to Molesworth “the miracle of
laughter.”
“ ‘Gentlemen, I will now fly,’ ” gasped
Molesworth. “It cost me fifty—it was worth
five hundred! ‘I will now fly’! And
he’s going to take the madness to England.
... .0 Lord, I’m going off again.”
“Let him take it to England—he’ll be all
right there. They’re all mad in England.
Shakspeare knew.”
“‘Gen-tie’—oh, my Lord—‘gentlemen! I
will now—l will now — fly'! God bless my
heart! ‘I will now fly’! Don’t let me go,
Tregard—l can’t walk alone.”
“I suppose I get the liquidation, old man.
Steady up !”
“Of course, you do ‘Gentlemen, I will
now fly’! Oh, my good heavens !”
All the bleakness had gone from the air;
seemingly incapable of any other sort of
volition, they laughed themselves along the
sodden road.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Tunnel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HARMAN had one last look at the
rich seam of tin in the tunnel face.
If he came through the war all
right this was to buy him and the girl their
home. A notice-board pinioned to the wash-
dirt told any inquisitive person that the
show belonged to George Ilarman, miner’s
right No. 1G845, and that the said Ilarman
had exemption until such time as he re-
turned from the war.
Harman walked to the tunnel-mouth.
Overhead was a bunch of boulders wedged
together and stayed by four props. Harman
had mined these props by placing in each a
charge of dynamite. The end of the fuse
connecting each charge was concealed under
the truckline which ran through the tim-
bers. The fuse end was tipped with u
dynamite cap. Should a man wheel a truck-
load of dirt from the face, the weight of the
loaded truck would fire the cap, and in a few
seconds the props would be blown to pieces,
and down would come those tons of rocks,
which wouldn’t be good for the man under-
neath.
* * * *
Two years later Harman lay dying in a
hospital in Cairo, and Harman’s thoughts
were bitter. He would not have cared' for
death had it not been for the girl. He
struggled gamely, but there was no chance.
As he waited for the end the Sister handed
him a home-letter and stood by for the smile.
But no smile came. The letter was simply
and curtly to the effect that the girl hail
changed her mind, and by the time he got
her note she would be married to Harry
Long, an old acquaintance of both of them.
All the vindictiveness of Harman’s nature
burned up. He wanted more than ever to
live now, so that he might get his fingers on
the throat of the man who had stolen more
than life from him. As he turned in his
bed the stretcher-bearers were putting a new
patient in beside him.
The new-comer’s pain-stricken face turned
towards Harman and instantly broke into a
smile.
“What ho, Harman,” he said; “what
cheer V”
It was the jilt’s brother.
On the edge of death Harman croaked out,
“Is Lucy married yet?”
“Why, no,” answered the brother.
“Haven’t you heard? Long went in to work
that tunnel of yours when the price of tin
went up. The roof must have got pretty
rotten, because it fell in on top of him. It
took them a week to dig away the rocks, and
what they found of Long wasn't worth look-
ing for.”
A slow smile broke over Harman’s white
face. The Sister wondered what it was that
made such a bad-tempered man die so
peacefully.
GOUGER.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Rare
UPT
YOU
U R
eD
Have you grown tired ot wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your lhrer —healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
Cmm
SPITTLE l
IVER
RUS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dote— Small Pile#,
GENUINE must bear signature
vm
wm
m
*9
m
%
m
&
s>
m
r,
>
&
$
!
-
$
91
6 bars
of this
delicious,
long-lasting
beneficial
sweet
for 3d.
Most economical
-refreshment you
can buy.
Get it at Chemists, Con-
fectioners, Tobacco
Shops and Stores.
Be SURE its
unacaEXS
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour lasts
Made by Wdi. Wrlsley Jr. Co. Prop. Ltd.*
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
?*SW
■ *• -
mt
THEY ARE
BEECHAMS
PILLS
Remington,
vSggf
»»a«««aaa
Ji«ar
mm
Arms and Ammunition
Used throughout the
world by leading sports-
men. Sold by ironmongers
and sporting goods dealers
everywhere.
G. BRAND AUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series'* of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works s Birmingham, England
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY "DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A- PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager, ji


B»bancrovitell
LEATHER
I
mm
Gives Best Results
That is why it is demanded by power users
everywhere.
Mangrovite Leather or Rawhide Belting is
durable, and transmits maximum power on
the most difficult drives.
Ask our expert engineer .to advise you
about your transmission problems.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P. o.),Sydney,N.S. W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle U Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379
264 Latrobe Street. Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
.
1
W: V.
«&p2
' : ■ •
A
STrtt Cl Vr : -
fron^ouf'^ V ma^rifl TEEIi ' CIJTTING EDGBS ' with lron Backs, made to your order
When ordering state size on cut, depth,
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts,
necessary.
thickness, length and width of slots;
If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
FIBROLITE, versus
Lath and Plaster
Lath and plaster are old-fashioned. Use the new modern
building material.
Dufies Time’s Touch. HAROIE’S FIB ROUTE—Genuine
Asbestos Cement Sheets,
Composed of ail pure Australian
Cement in lonf>- tough fibres.
Contains no vegetable matter,
therefore will not roG or decay.
Cheaper than weatherboard, also
fire retardant. Fibrolite resists
the action of chemical fumes,
acids and sea air, and really im-
proves with age. Use Fibrolite
for interior and exterior walls,
gables, ceilings, etc., besides
hundreds of other odd jobs.
Write for particulars and sample.
TRADEMARK
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. WYNYARD & YORK STREETS, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (4 Lines).
581*3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
3O Currie Street, Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Ail
Refrigerating
.
Requisites
Stocked.
'iooais nrd i. 6
Melbourne, Brisbane,
and Auckland, N.Z.
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
landler
ajßA-.pjßH
pußwaSuomuoa,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
PUMPS-Good Pumps Only
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Pines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, hall valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Sin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK — Sene/Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
TDDOR ACCUMULATORS.
ALL TYPES ALL SIZES
' FOR
Town Lighting', Country House Lighting', etc.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
(Australasian Offica)—
Culwuila Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY.
BOX: P.O. 2550.
TELEPHONE: CITY 89S1.
DELGO-LIGHT
Plant,
Country
Electric
suitable for
Light Power
Suburban and
Houses, Stations, Stores
, Schools of Arts, etc.
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4 % hours.
Runs on
Kerosene
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FUATS'KI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
r
Sheep
Shearing
Machine
m
A.
GEDYE £ C°
SOLE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA
QMS
MITCHEII & CO. PROPY. LTD.,
W. footscray, Melbourne,
Vic. 4
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Townsville.
MA'IIOCH BROS.
Perth, W.A.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD ,
Hobart, Tas.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON. LTD.
Brisbane, Queensland
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMfRS
CO-OP UNION; LTD./
Adelaide S.A.
MINING MACHINERY AND SUPPLIES.
We are manufacturers of:
The “ Card ” Concentrating Table.
The “Gyro” Hydraulic Classifier.
Dorr Machinery-
Classifiers, Agitators, Thickeners.
Billett’s Patent Hot Blast Tuyere.
Williams’ Patent Oil Filter.
“Everlasting” Blow-off and Stop Valves.
“Gyral” Ore Screens.
i mi
m
7*m
*:'l- : 'r''-v; *
:£r*'
-
mm mw
Agents for
May Bros.’ famous Jigs, Rolls, Crushers.
Richards’ Pulsator Jigs and Classifiers.
“Flood” Classifiers.
Hydromax Hammer Drills.
“Cam’’ Brand Shoes & Dies—Fprged Steel.
Woven Steel Screen—all sizes.
Mining Steel, Rock Drills, Poppers,
Explosives, Skip Grease.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining & Electrical Engineers, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
