

vlv
W
E3=
ii
A Five Months’Record
Here is the list of Chandler performances in
three States—NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENS-
LAND and VlCTORlA—during the last five
mouths.
AUGUST 12-18—TWENTY CHANDLERS
(Roadsters, Touring Cars and Chassis) travelled
the 850 miles from SYDNEY to BRISBANE,
OVERLAND, and arrived ON SCHEDULE.
OCTOBER 25-27—SEVEN CHANDLERS (Road-
sters, Touring Cars and Chassis) travelled 600
miles from SYDNEY to MELBOURNE, OVER-
LAND, and arrived ON SCHEDULE.
NOTE.—In both instances the cars had only just
been unpacked and put straight on the road, with-
out any preparation or dress rehearsal.
OCTOBER 25—A CHANDLER, taken straight
from stock, negotiated the TOOWOOMBA
(Q.) TOLL-BAR RANGE, “ON TOP,” in
Imin. 45sec., beating the record for the official
hi’l-clirab, put up on the same hill a few weeks
previously, by no less than 57sec.!
DECEMBER 10—A STOCK CHASSIS climbed
the 3£ miles of the Black Spur, Healesville
(Vic.), in 7min. 24sec., with grades of one in
four and one in five, “ON TOP”!
WE CHALLENGE ANY CAR OF
ANY OTHER MAKE TO SHOW
SIMILAR RESULTS.
There cannot be any “fluke” or coincidence
about such things. There’s nothing else to it but
SHEER MERIT.
CHANDLERS ARE THE GOODS.
What One Chandler Can Do Each
and Every Chandler Will Do.
Marcus ClarkS Co. Ltd., Sydney
Agents for N.S.W.
Howitzer Battery Co., Melbourne
Agents for Victoria
Bradley 8 Holland, Brisbane
Agents for Queensland
Montcrieff Engineering Co., Adelaide
Agents for South Australia
The Bulletin
Yoi. 41.—N0. 2085.
Thursday, January 29, 1919#
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE- PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
i
Ss\
1#
tow
a
%
»?
2>
«
0/
£
&
%
%? wa#
is
Shirts
Superior Fit and Finish
Thistle Shirts win
the enthusiastic ap-
proval of particular
men, for Thistle Shirts typify,
good taste in style coupled
with comfort.
Their exceptional wearing
qualities, superior workman-
ship, and absolute correctness
ensure unusual value for your
money.
When you buy Shirts say
“ Thistle Shirts.” Ask also
for Thistle PYJAMAS.
Made in Australia
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
ASS
See [his brand
on each Shirt
'0
The Gar
for the
Owner-Driver
THe All
rltish
Bra
X
LTI
LIGHT CAR
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
ALL AUSTRALIANS- visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia aqji news
of Australians in Europe and at home,
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in _ the Great War, Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. 11. IFOTJLD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol aiid other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co*, Ltd., Sydney.
[4
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption.
m
&
&
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea u
Windpipe.
C The Bronchial
Tubes of a Dir
sected Lung-.
D. The Lobe ?
of the Lr
The Red Page
Can Dialect Be Poetry?
Kenneth Slessor’s assertion (Red Page
8/!/’2O) that dialect is fatal to poetry is
altogether too sweeping. In many cases
the dialect makes the poetry. To take only
one instance, the dialectal “When a’ the
seas gang dry” is far superior to the stan-
dard English equivalent “When all the seas
go dry.” Chaucer wrote in what is to us
a dialect and to turn his poetry into
modern English without losing the charm is
almost impossible.
No one would claim that “The Sentimental
Bloke” is the highest form of poetry, but
surely it would be unnatural to make such
characters talk cultured English. To say
that speech is impossible in poetry is to
shut out from the of poetry most
of the work of Shakspeare,, whom Mr. Sles-
sor seems to consider the final arbiter.
Mr. Slessor denies that the hawker of
Woolloomooloo thinks in dialect. What on
earth does he think in then? For myself I
own to thinking in the language I use in
everyday conversation, and I cannot con-
ceive of anyone habitually doing otherwise.
It is perhaps impossible to drop an imag-
inary h, but it is certainly possible not to
imagine the h at all.
Hence, to set down (say) in the form
of a soliloquy in verse even the thoughts of
such characters as the Sentimental Bloke,
it is necessary to use dialect in order to
get the greatest realism. And this realism,
this creation of the proper “atmosphere”
for the character, is what poets who use
dialect aim at.
If the dialect chosen is not intrinsically
ugly, then great poetry is possible in it.
Unfortunately slum dialect is intrinsically
ugly, but, even so, its use with some sub-
jects certainly gives an added zest, though
not even those who enjoy it most would
claim that verse written in it ranks with
the supreme masterpieces. However, if no
verse is to be printed except supreme master-
pieces," the verse-reading public will have to
find s some other form of relaxation.
FRED RAYMOND.
Kenneth Slessor (B. 8/l/’2O) has the
advantage of us all. He knows h in fche
flesh.
There is no “unfortunate philosophy”
afoot (if there wdre it wouldn’t be a philo-
sophy) “that to be intensely and typically
Australian you must sing in a perverted
variety of Billingsgate.” “Fifty per cent,
of modern Australian verse” is not “written
in the alleged dialect of Outback—or of
Surry; Hills.” Hardly believing it to be
necessary, one points a tired finger to the
examples that are broadcast. David McKee
Wright, Roderic Quinn, Frank Morton,
Zora Cross —-dozens of them, who write in
the aggregate much more than 75 per cent,
of modern Australian verse. Twenty years
ago there was some truth in the brave asser-
tions, but now there isn’t any.
“The remorseless fact is that dialect of
any description is fatal to poetry. It kills
it.” “McAndrew’s Hymn” goes by my stu-
pefied memory; the “Shropshire Lad,” “Past
Carin’,” “The Northern Farmer,” “Tam
O’Shanter,” “For’ard” —hundreds of facts in
poetic expression start a ne-ver-ending pro-
cession. These facts typify Dennis’s tech-
nical precedent for “The Sentimental Bloke,”
apart from his artistic liberty to use the
method in which the Bloke appeared to his
creator. That Kenneth Slessor »would pre-
fer Dennis to “go the whole hog and have
them speak in the prose of their everyday
conversation” does not seem important to
me; nor, I suspect, to Dennis. In tech-
nique. the method of verse in dialect form is
as old as Chaucer. In logic it is as old as
verse; it needs no more justification than
any other form. In artistic value it is
more . vibrant and illuminating, more essen-
tially dramatic and convincing than Oxford
English would be in its place. If these are
not enough, it is the method chosen by the
poet for his poem.
“The truth is that, in real poetry, conver-
sation or any other form of speech cannot
possibly exist. No poetic characters speak.
The poet is not concerned for one minute
with their actual utterances; the poetry is
in their thoughts .” In the dramatic form
how can the poet get their thoughts upon
his paper save by their utterance? That
procession begins again: “Endymion,”
“Idylls of the King,” “Paradise Lost,”
“CEnone”—hundreds and hundreds.
“It’s true that the hawker of Woolloo-
mooloo talks in the peculiar dialect of that
locality; but I entirely deny that he thinks
in slang. How can he? ,You can’t drop a
visionary h ? If a man really thinks these ,
things I can see nothing for him to do but
to throw away his pen and find his true
vocation. The. reason for the existence of
slang, is that its users ’think in it; that’s
how it came into being. If Kenneth Slessor
really denies that slang-users’ thoughts are
analogous to their expression of them, then
he denies a blatant truth. The objection
that slang is an undignified literary form
can be sustained to a point, but the essence
of that objection is that slang is
too near the undignified truth of the
regrettably uneducated mind. It is a
false objection which can be destroved in
a few sentences, but there is some traditional
excuse for it. There, is no excuse, logical
or sane, for. the objection that slang is too
far from the user’s thought. That is absurd.
And I should like to see that solid h.
Would it bounce with a fine bumptious ring
when you dropped it, throwing out a shower
of blinding certainties, sending us all helter-
dcelter to the schoolroom to refute them?
HILARY LOFTING.
Poetry is concerned with thought, not
word's* Kenneth Slessor says, and, being in
itself -an unnatural form of expression, the
author concludes that an attempt to intro-
duce natural speech must be . incongruous.
It is. interesting, first, to note that a very
close connection exists between thought and
idiom. Although it is true that one can’t
“drop a visionary h,” yet habits of thought
may be very truly reproduced in lan-
guage. Billingsgate is peculiar not only in
its turns of expression but also in its stand-
ards and comparisons: its life-philosophy
can scarcely be expressed ouf of its own
terms.
The Sentimental Bloke could certainly
never breathe the atmosphere of Parnassus,
and in prose I am very much afraid he might
lose his point. “Saltbush Bill” was never
intended for a classic creation. The gallop-
ing rhymes of Gordon and Paterson or Kip-
ling’s “Barrack-room Ballads” are not the
highest poetry, but they are much too good
to lose. And I find it much easier to imag-
ine a drunken sailor talking like Kipling or
Masefield than like Shelley or Keats. Kip-
ling’s infusion of idiom is done, I think, with
remarkable effect. The Northern tang, gives
a wonderful flavor to parts of “Sir Patrick
Spens” : —•
To Noroway, to Noroway,
To Noroway owre the faeni
The king’s daughter to Noroway
’Tis thou maun tak her hame.
It is the touch of sudden brutality that gives
a shudder to some of Masefield’s work: —
When the rising moon was a copper disc and the
sea like a strip of steel,
We* sank him down to the swaying weeds ten fathom
below the keel.
“It’s rough about Bill,” the fo’c’s’le said. “We’ll
have to stand ’is wheel.”
When Burns writes out of dialect he almost
always becomes forced and stilted. Shak-
speare, Mr. Slessor remarks, never versified
dialect. He didn’t need to. The dramatist
is at liberty to make prose insertions, and
the poet, in his more limited demesne, is not.
Again, verse carries an emphasis which
prose does not. Whewell stated a great
fact so intensely that he wrote quite un-
conscious, of the metrical foi’in
There is no force, however great,
Can stretch a cord, however fine,
Into a horizontal line
That shall be absolutely straight.
And so, to tell a very short story, or make
a humorous reflection, verse can be used in
cases where prose would be ludicrously in-
effective. The statement that “either a char-
acter speaks in verse (in which case his
language must be poetic) or else he speaks
in prose” is at least an exaggeration. No
one wants a prose transcription of “TJie
Walrus and the Carpenter” or “Gunga
Din.” The same principle applies to “The
Sentimental Bloke.” Mr. Dennis gives only
a very thin veneer of reality. It is neither
the honest roast-beef of prosaic creation nor
the Olympian nectar of the poets. It is an
inconsiderable dish with a very delightful
flavoring of poetry and humor; and verse
(not poetry) is its fitting medium. So
too with a great deal of modern Australian
verse-.
I am inclined to think that Mr. Slessor’s
warning is a salutary one; nevertheless it
is a little too sweeping. Some of Lawson’s
work or Paterson’s would be deprived of half
its charm if it were not written in the ver-
nacular. And, lastly, let us be careful how
we set bounds to the muse. If she think
fit to forsake the Pierian spring for a time
and wander in the shady fastnesses of Little
Lon, who are we to say her nay?
I. R. MAXWELL.
The Publishing Trade
The war has revolutionised publishing in
England, at least as far as novels are con-
cerned. Before the war a novel had only
to sell out an edition of 1000 copies to
bring in a certain profit to its publishers.
The profit was small, something like £l6
10s., and the author usually got only enough
to pay his arrears of rent; but if a publisher
printed sufficient of such novels he could
have a stable business. In most cases the
type was distributed as soon as the novel
was published, and if the book showed signs
of being a financial success it was set up
again and preparations made for an adver-
tising campaign.
Most novels, however, never struggled be-
yond that first edition. Their sales were
based on the fact that there are (say) 867
circulating libraries in Great Britain that
take copies of all novels issued by reputable
publishers. (I have nfever struck any repu-
table publishers, by the way, but that is the
adjective used in the trade.) This quite
calculable demand was the central reality of
the English publishing business. It gave the
publisher a certain fixed basis, and he had
to look for his profits to the occasional book
that outdistanced the 1000 limit.
“Out of all the manuscripts I get,” a
publisher once said to me, “only one in ten
is literate enough for print. - And only one
in ten of those printed x gets into a second
edition.”
Unluckily the war has put an end to this
neat system by \vhich every decent novel, at
least, was assured of getting into covers.
The costs of production have gone up so
much that nothing less than a sale of 2000
is any good to a publisher. More than
that, this limit must be reached within
six months of publication. And since out
of ten books published only one can manage
to reach it, the other nine will have little
chance of seeing daylight.
How is this likely to affect writers? Hugh
Walpole, writing in the Literary Supple-
ment of the Times, says it means death to
all young novelists. The hitherto unpub-
lished man has very little hope of selling
2000 copies of his first book, and, anyhow,
he will not have much chance of getting a
publisher to back him. The latter will have
to restrict himself to names he knows. If
such conditions had ruled during the last
25 years men like Joseph Conrad would
never have had a hope of getting their heads
above water. Until the publication of
“Chance,” a few years ago, not a single
book of Conrad’s went into a second edition
within six months. The same might be said
of paost writers who are worth reading.
Florence Barclay and Ethel Dell would have
survived, and the children of light gone
under.
One of the remedies suggested is that the
Authors’ . Society should create a fund for
the publication of good work: tire men
already established will increase their sales
by the scarcity of other men’s books, and
should use some of their profits for the bene-
fit of literature. That is the argument, but
it seems a forlorn hope. The Authors’
Society in England is a very powerful body,
but the last time I came in contact with
it the president was Charles Garvice! And
Charles Garvices are the same everywhere.
Ihey believe that the theory of the survival
of the fittest is finally proved by their popu-
larity that they have the secret key to
the great, pulsing heart of Suburbia, and that
(Continued on page 24.)


i $ mm*i«
! V'4#
RfSS-
- , **Tj>'
_%4l
i '}s£ss%■• - .*
uMjW#
l«jfep
Sv~fj\K
'if--.
U'-'H'.
■%*
; «..
..ftv^:>i.|
.•#"■ -.-
,-;•%■ -T'?
•* -'- W.4...V*.
•» -to
; A
V« : ‘
P?$Y ft>
ry
&
V
h' "
SB
HMB
Anthony Horderns’
Half-Yearly
SALE.
With the Signing of the Armistice
Over twelve months ago it was not expected that the
high prices of the War period would long con-
tinue. But to-day there are no signs of relief, and
existing conditions point to still higher prices.
• •••••••
As a consequence of increased wages, shorter hours
of labor and lessened production the world over,
prices of all manufactured goods and com-
modities have risen beyond the most extravagant
expectations. Prices will, undoubtedly, continue
to advance, and there is unquestionable evidence
that the world’s shortage of manufactured goods
will be still more acutely felt.
SEND FOR THE SALE CATALOGUE.
The goods enumerated in the SALE CATALOGUE are in almost every
instance priced below the cost of replacement. Purchases, there-
fore, whether for immediate requirement or for future use, will
assuredly prove a gilt-edged investment.
• ••• ••••
Quantities are limited. No Sale Goods can be sent on approval, nor
will they be exchanged.
We pay carriage to any part of N.S.W. on Family Drapery and Fashion
Goods, Cutlery, Electroplate, Men’s Wear, Jewellery and Fine Art;
on inter-State and Pacific island Orders we pay carriage to the
nearest port.
First Day: Tuesday, 27th January, 1920.
Last Day: Saturday, 14th February, 1920.
The Sale Catalogue is free, and postage is paid. Send
for a copy NOW!
ANTHONY HORDKRN&SONS Ltd
Only Universal Providers,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
Pal ace
ew
Em por!un»
N EY


TaKe KODAK Pictures
and hold fast to Happiness
m.
m
Pleasant outings, events of in-
terest, the joys of home—take
Kodak pictures of all happy times
and in the years to come your
Kodak Album will prove a never-
failing fount of pleasure. Kodaks
are as simple as ABC to use —
begin taking Kodak pictures to-
day.
0
The No. 2c Autographic Kodak Junior
takes small postcard pictures, 2f x 4|
inches—a very handy size. Price 80/-
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior, for
pictures 2J x3{ inches. Price 60/-.
Other Kodak prices are from 40/- to £lB.
Ask for the Kodiak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK. (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Sti'eet, Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Euthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
109-111 Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay
and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ; 3 Lome Street. Auckland. N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart
Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 148 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
Boninsegna.
Calli-Curci.
Walter Hyde.
Martinelli.
Typical Operatic Records from the February List
His Master's Voice
Ready on and after to-morrow, January 30, at all dealers.
In record 2-054071 Celestina Boninsegna and Luigi Bolis render the
beautiful duet “M’ami, M’ami” from Act II “Un Ballo in Maschera.” It is one
of the finest operatic records ever made.
No. 2-033058 records again the wonder-voice of Galli-Curci in “Romeo
and Juliet.” —Juliet’s Waltz Song, Act I.
No. 3-4030 is a particularly fine record by Walter Hyde and Edna
Thornton, “In the combat with me he contended” (Duet, Act II “II Trovatore”).
In 2-052105 a rarely beautiful piece of singing is heard. It is the exquisite
M’Apari tutt ’amor (“Marta”), sung by Giovanni Martinelli.
These and many other notable records are in the February list —ready January 30.
COMPLETE LIST AND NAME OF NEAREST DEALER ON REQUEST.
S6e GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Ms Master’s Voice”
Repd. Trade-mark.
MASTERS VOICE
HIS
m
m
s mm
niMiTTnrniniu


For Your Liver
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.”
The Or. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulia Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulia Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
Used the
World Over
*
£3
MOTOR
...CARS
Jell ip?
J
- •:>:
or a Allots
m
Think of Three Letters!
GBD. That is all you
have to remember when
you want to buy a good
pipe. GBD—you will find
it on the stem and mouth-
piece, as per the trade-
mark reproduced here-
under.
1
hjhg
—the perfect pipe.
Many popular shapes—sold everywhere.
SSPB
Hi
g»
CAPTAIN
0
WHISKY
Mild, Mellow, Fully Matured
—a Liquor you’ll Appreciate
All Hotels and
Licensed Stores
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
'track mark
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during a
period when it has not been easy to live
ud to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract, is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. We will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
HO Maiden Eane, Holbrook Building,
New York, 'C.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (.Both Offices) “ Beachfred .”
BUSH, BEACH £, GENT me.
New York - San Fran cisco. U.S.A.
GIVEN
m
GIVEN
AWAY
AWAY
ABSOLUTELY
Baa
1000 STRONG SERVICEABLE FLASHLIGHT TORCHES GIVEN AWAY FREE to the first 1000 readers
of this paper, provided they order from us the material to make THEIR OWN REFILLS for the TORoH,
and thus rely on always getting a FRESH 21EW TOWERFUL BATTERY.
The MAKE-UR-OWN BATTERY OUTFIT dent. Put V*in a compact case containing sufficient
material to make SIX COMPLETE CELLS, enough to LAST A YEAR of reasonable use. Material will
NEVER deteriorate. A child can make the Refills in two minutes and they will OUTLAST and OUTSHINE
any refill you could buy. Complete outfit 10/-, post paid any address. Money cheerfully refunded if not
satisfactory. Send to-day and make sure "4 f getting a handsome FREE TORCH with the outfit.
SPECIALTY SL|PPLIES, Commerce Buildings, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lovers!
How simple-sweet are lovers, murmuring to-
gether,
With joy a whirl between them like a w’ind-
blown feather,
And a web of words upon them to serve as
love’s disguise!
How simple-sweet are lovers, talking prim
and wise,
And thinking, thinking madly of hands and
lips and eyes!
How simple-sweet are lovers, hand in hand
going,
Who dream the joys they know are tor none
others knowing,
That they alone of earth have tasted amorous
bliss!
How simple-sweet are lovers, between kiss
and kiss
Pitying the dull world and whispering of
this.
How simple-sweet are lovers when love trails
a pinion,
And words have lost their wizardry and
pride has dominion ;
When heads are held a whit too high, and
jests too smoothly swell!
How simple-sweet are lovers feigning all is
well,
With the heart-sickness on them so all tha
world can tell!
How simple-sweet are lovers who fear that
love but passes
Like a slight, lovely wind in the silver-
green of grasses,
So that the old forget the time their love
went softly by!
How simple-sweet are lovers! But we
know 7 , you and I,
There can be no forgetting until the day
we die.
N.s.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
Country Maid.
I long for rust-red roads with shading gums
Like those when we were chums ;
Those mottled carpets that the sunshine
weaves
In gold with fallen leaves;
I long to see once more the house-smoke twist
In corkscrew fashion like a faint blue mist
When all with dusk is kist.
I know that wiien the stars came out to
shine
You gave your lips to mine.
’Tw r as months ago, and seems long years
to me,
Yet your sweet face I see
Flushed in the starlight like a night-kissed
rose;
And yet, for all your blushes, I suppose
’Twas but a maid’s sweet pose.
You had your loves w'hen I wms not near
by—
What! No? A maid’s swrnet lie!
I’ll swear I saw 7 you kiss a rose and throw
It to the creek below*,
Ere I had come upon you unaware
And throw'n my greedy arms about you
there
And ta’en my full-lipped share.
Here in the noisy street the busy crowd
Pass to and fro; and loud
The clatter of the carts and rumbling trams
And squalling kids in prams
Sounds on the ear. My office looks right
down
The street. Pass poor, pass rich, pass gap-
ing clown
Who oives me half a crown.
All day the dust, the noise of w’heels and
feet
Drift upwards from the street.
My heart grows tired and longs for that sweet
rest
That comes from out the West
When ail the sky grows cool and fades to
grey,
And sweet the sea breathes on the fainting
day,
And damps its brow' with spray.
I look to where the eastern hills roll down
Past river and past town,
.Just as the twilight turns to limpid night
That calls a thought’s free flight
And sends it swiftly o’er the leagues to you.
I look to where the hills gleam dully blue
And wonder what you do.
I long for rust-red roads with shading gums
Like those when w r e w r ere chums.
The laughing kisses that you gave to me
I keep in Inemory :
For when I left I knew your eyes w T ere w 7 et
With tears. I’ve prayed yoy would for-
give. ...and yet
I hope you w'on’t forget.
WESTK ALIA.
ARTEMUS H.
The Candles.
My love has gone through the palm-trees,
they whisper and shake;
I trace, by the faint light before, the road
he will take.
Beneath the dusky green arches his horses
stand still,
And watch with me as the candles wind
round by the hill.
Oft have I stood in the gloaming and waited
for him,
When shadows dropped from the mountains,
the forest was dim ;
And early or late he returned, ’twas glory
for me
To feel his strong arm about me —to hear
him and see.
The candles have stopped on the hill, and
never again
To me will my lover come back. Oh. torches
of pain,
Returning without him —without! and still
burning bright!
God! bow shall I live who am dead , and
buried to-night?
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


k
/
■
Three-Spindle Ball-Bearing Drill.
Machines are made with one. two, three and
four spindles, any or all of which may be: —
Hand Feed Plain
Auto Feed Plain.
Auto Feed Geared.
A SUGGESTION
Get a three- or four-spindle Ball-bearing Drilling Machine, fitted with one-geared
spindle and the others plain. Have our patent self-engaging, self-releasing automatic
feed motion fitted to the plain spindle (it is always furnished with geared spindles)
and specify the improved open channel lubrication system shown in the illustration.
Now, with the addition of a few Coit Ball-bearing Drill Chucks, a Dorman
Tapping Attachment and some real high-speed drills, all of which we can furnish with
the machine, you’re ready fqr any work within the following limits:—
Drilling holes up to 1 in. diam. by sin. deep.
Tapping holes up to fin. Whitworth.
Facing and counterboring up to 2 in. diam.
All in Steel, mind you.
The machine is equally suitable for manufacturing or general use, and will prove
a welcome addition to any shop.
Further details and specifications on request.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
CHAS E.
YOUNG
Sole Ag'ent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD
Telephones:
Telegraphic
Codes Used:
City 10109, 10110. Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England
and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
: ABC, Lieber’s, Western Union and Private.
jventry, England,
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans Ibe lee Hi wilbouf scratching
l"be breafb;barder7S I’be gums
MADE
IN
wpmm
Australia
If your Ghemisf or storekeeper
cannof supply, send i/3 in stomps
to Rocke .Tompsitt £ Co. Melbourne.
f//
w
Save Work and Save Worry
at Your Next Picnic.
No sandwich culting, no cooking, no
work, and no complaints. It’s simply
a matter of taking along a few tins of
“REX” CAMP PIE
some bread and butter, also Salad if you wish. You serve
this delicious meat straight from the tin and you cannot
imagine any dish more tasty. There is nothing quite so
good for picnics, week-end camps and no-trouble meals
at home. “Rex” Camp Pie is flavorsome and nourishing.
It is less expensive than fresh meat. Try it to-day.
Enough for five persons in each tin.
You will also enjoy “Rex” Luncheon Cheese,
“ilex” Ham Pate and “Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Carers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 1181
/A,
dm'
v//i«
w«
«3;
m
cmilm
a
1/ ,rs
tp
m
mid
20 U
138 i3B
§»
„,/.' aij Inr
nMi? i,;*
■S'/mm i »
V?
. (L>'«
t ->
s-rw«^s
feJSEE*
%
® ■
fcL^i.
-V'
V
EJ
p
.
SAMP PIE
i
10
(/
No
##
Because it is remarkably rich in the
higher ethers, Martell’s is a splendid
Brandy for hospital or sick-room. It
has a delightful flavor and is extremely
mild to the palate. That’s why judges
of good brandy always specify Martell’s.
You should certainly try it to-day!
MARTELL’S
Fine
Old Cognac
BRANDY.
Thome’s is the idea! whisky—it is a rare old “Scotch”
from Glenlivet, and is thoroughly pure. You’ll like its
distinctive charm of flavor, its mild milk-softness, while
its fine 'stimulating properties make for happiness and
comradeship. Next time, don’t merely say “Whisky,
please”—specify “Thome’s Whisky”—you’ll be indeed
gratified.
THORNE’S
0.H.M." Incomparable" WHISKY.
Exquisite!
Try an Abdulla Cigarette to-day and
notice its very fine flavor, its mellow-
ness and refined fragrance. You’ll
also appreciate the fact that Abdullas
burn freely and evenly. They are
carefully made from the choicest
tobacco, and you can have Virginians.
Egyptian or Turkish. Buy some.
A


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.YV., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2085.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 1920.
Price 6d.
A HOPELESS CASE.
THE MAN ON TOP: “This is the third time you’ve been caught working your hardest. Whatyer mean by it? How do you expect the country to go
broke? You’re fined, under the Habitual Workers’ Act, six soup-kitchen tickets.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year , to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’ l column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, arc specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if nhi acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tim Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand 'hat it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and Wl.Jte.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted f or
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and iv. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.CJ/.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
LJ.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Kulamadan.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 1602.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., I\A.; Bioz. to 10 02., 3d. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elseivhere, !/oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 1920.
THE BOLSHEVIK IN ASIA.
The idea has suddenly come to the front
that Bolshevism may be more infectious than
had been supposed. It has naturally been
confined to the peoples whose ignorance is
most profound, but there are very many
ignorant peoples, and if they are roused by
a new preaching they may become very ob-
noxious. Quite a number of the bad things
that white men have received —the Huns,
the Magyars, the cholera, the Black Death,
leprosy, the habit of interfering with other
people’s religions, and the Turks, to quote
only a few —came from Asia, that great
storehouse of disaster, and Russia is largely
Asiatic. Bolshevism has this sort of appeal
to Asia, that, though it is government by a
group of vulgar, arrogant adventurers, it
still admits more vulgar and arrogant ad-
venturers to a real share in the management
of things than Asia is accustomed to. In
Russia it certainly began with the hunting
of the people’s newly-elected Parliament
into the street by the bodyguard of the con-
spirators, with a very large slaying or im-
prisonment or exile of the people’s represen-
tives, and with the setting up of a rather
shadowy and rigidly-limited Parliamentary
system by the grace and the permission of
the duumvirate. But the Russians had
scarcely learned that they possessed a real
Parliament. It died so young that very
few realised that it had been born or noticed
its disappearance. Bolshevism, with its
crude, off-hand prescriptions, its very off-
hand tribunals, its spasms of rage, its disre-
gard of ordinary rules and decencies, its
thoroughness when there is stealing or mur-
der to be done, its dirt, disorder and energy,
represents Central Asia come to life again,
with a veneer of the European idea of popu-
lar government on top of all. If it gets
hold of the country to which it naturally
belongs—the Attila and Tamerlane and
Genghiz Khan country—and blesses it with
the veneer of European knowledge which it
requires in a military sense, Bolshevism
may have a long and stormy career ahead
of it. With time it may achieve wonders —
beastly wonders. It lost territory in Europe
at the very beginning of its career —those
parts of the original Russian republic which
were most European. It failed in Germany
after a brief splash. It failed in Hungary,
though the ruling caste there has a notable
Asiatic streak and represents one of the later
invasions. But the news that it has spread
successfully and joyously to Bokhara and
Tashkent and the Afghan-Persian-Indian
border suggests that it has found its natural
element. If it can organise itself there
and build up the country with European
war improvements it may in time resume
that curious movement which was an an-
noyance in olden days—the movement by
which uncouth folk of the Hun, Avar, Mon-
gol and Turkoman type used to pack up
their belongings for no explainable reason
and come along like a tidal wave. Buffaloes
had the same migratory habit in the days
when there were buffaloes, and wolves were
addicted to it and rabbits have shown it now
and then.
« » » •
A great source of strength to Bolshevism,
if accounts are correct, lies in its education
system. Education is the great art of teach-
ing the young generation what is—or what
isn’t. When used in a political sense it is
the art of making the nation grow up think-
ing, feeling and being what its rulers intend
it should think and feel and be. Two or
three generations of special training created
a German nation which can’t see to this
day that there was anything wrong with
its treachery, its greed, its atrocities and its
innumerable breaches of decency. It hasn’t
lost a shred of its faith in God as the direc-
tor and instigator of all these things, and
merely resolves to be more atrocious next
time and more worthy of divine support.
German education was spread to Australia
among other places by agents trained in
Hun schools, and its influences were abund-
antly visible during the war. If the system
had been a little older and better developed
it might have changed the whole course of
the war. The Freetrade craze in Britain
is similarly the result of the schools. Free-
trade was only an expedient—a thing that
England had tried before when it seemed to
suit and abandoned when it became unsuit-
able. It was being tried again with a little
more enthusiasm than usual and under
specially favorable circumstances, and, as
the first experiments at compulsory education
were made about that time, the enthusiasts,
being in charge, put their musty creed into
the schoolbooks. Straightway there developed
a generation of Bruce Smiths, who re-
garded imported shoddy as a Heaven-sent
revelation, who declared any history which
showed it to be a discarded device of later
Plantagenet days as an impudent falsifica-
tion ; and anybody who disputed the new
creed was something like an infidel and very
like a lunatic. The idea of a daughter of
the house marrying a Protectionist was at
one time almost as unpopular as the idea of
her marrying a nigger. It is because of
education spread over a series of generations
that nations have their religions in solid
masses, and don’t change their creeds except
very rarely and under enormous pressure
and generally after a robust civil war. A
multitude of sects are so much alike that the
change from one to another might be ex-
pected to be as casual as the shifting of
spring fashions, but it isn’t. The Turks
kept up their empire for a century or two —
in fact, they more or less propped it up for
five centuries —by levying a tribute of male
Christian infants and educating them in the
firm belief that they and their people were
good Mohammedans from the back ages.
However much the belief might be dissipated
in succeeding years, there is said to have
been only one notable instance in which an
officer of this class threw off his artificial
training and reverted to his real type. The
same average individual can be made,
probably for life, an Orangeman or a Bolshe-
vik or a Jesuit or a Mormon if caught young
enough and carefully surrounded with cer-
tain influences. A section of Australian
extremists —notably the isolated, unhappy
and feverish community at Broken Hill,
where mere infants are taught to sing the
“Red Flag” and denounce an unspecified
person called “the capitalist”—is trying the
system of early training in a small way,
thereby imitating the Bolshevik oligarchy,
which is trying it on a huge and compre-
hensive scale. If two or three complete
generations of school children —three com-
plete generations would cover, say, 25 years
—could be reared in the Trotsky faith,
supposing the faith to last, they might, with
good leadership, dot most of the world with
revolutionary tribunals, confiscation, mas-
sacre done on principle, and sudden death
with trimmings.
* * * *
Australia, of course, can’t go Bolsheviking
except by enormously reducing the franchise
and turning its republican form of Federal
Government into a narrow oligarchy. There
is certainly room for a great reform in the
mode of appointing Ministers, for there is
something grotesque in the present limita-
tions. Suppose the country wants a good
Labor Treasurer, which it always does, the
beaten track to the Treasury lies in starting
young as an outdoor orator of the frenzied
sort, graduating as a union organiser, being
a persistent candidate for “selection,” get-
ting selected, getting elected to a place in
the rank and file, and then awaiting the
course of events. If the applicant starts
young enough he probably knows no finance
and has no chance to learn any. If he
starts with knowledge he is too old for the
weary, dreary, loony course of apprentice-
ship. Anyhow, he may miss his mark in the
end and be landed, through a secret caucus
intrigue, with the Agriculture and Diseased
Cow portfolio. Or he may bring up nowhere
at all. The Australian franchise is wide
enough, and the Bolshevik idea of reducing
it by shutting out “intellectuals” and all
people who don’t live in sordid conditions
and all who don’t subscribe to the Stop Work
doctrine would be retrogression—a going
back to the lower animal stage. The widen-
ing required is in the choice of the Execu-
tive. But that kind of reform isn't likely
to come out of Asia; and Bolshevism, mak-
ing the first additions to its State around
Bokhara and Merv and Tashkent appears
to be assuming a pronounced Asiatic tinge.
Very few things that Australia wants come
out of Asia.
THE BLANKETING OF “WIRELESS.”
Ever since the Armistice wireless enthusi-
asts have been battling for the right to get
to work. It is 15 months since a company
offered to put up the money, brains and
organisation to estaolish a direct com-
mercial wireless service between every city
in the Commonwealth and England—prac-
tically the entire apparatus to be made by
Australians in Australia. The Government
refused to sanction anything of the sort.
The War Precautions Act may be dead, but
the officials are determined to hang on to
something that will help justify their jobs;
and they do it in the name of national safety.
It goes without saying that there are
dangerous possibilities in wireless in war-
time or when war is imminent. So
there are in carrier-pigeons: yet it would
be a far-fetched measure of precaution to
destroy all privately-owned carrier-pigeons
because one day there may be another war.
A modem aeroplane, which is capable of a
non-stop flight of 2000 miles, could do more
damage in the way of supplying an enemy
with information than either a wireless or
a pigeon service in the hands of a spy or
traitor. The private-enterprise trawlers, in-
sisted on by Admiral Jellicoe as of the
first importance in the event of war break-
ing out, migut prove terrible engines of
destruction under enemy agents’ control.
Anything at all, down to a chemist’s shop
or a map-publishing business, or the bottle
department of a hotel which was in the habit
of supplying military chiefs with their
liquor, could be more or less fatal in given
circumstances. What a rational country
wants is not that its wireless development
should on that account be, to all intents and
purposes, disqualified for life, but that it
should be regulated—regulated primarily in
the interests of the safety of the State, and
secondly in the interests of the industry:
an industry which is presently going to be
one of the most potential in the world.
* • • *
The inhabitants of the Commonwealth
knew all about Ross Smith’s movements
when he left England the other day. Admir-
ing millions on this side of the world were
able to follow him across Southern Europe,
over the deserts of Arabia, the mountains
of India, the forests of Java. It was not
till he started to traveysp Australia that he
suddenly faded from the public view. The
Australian Government’s wireless policy was
responsible. There are scores, not to say
hundreds, of Outbackers who would erect
stations, both for every-day use and for
experimental purposes, if the thing were per-
missible. Doubters have merely to look at
the rush made for up-country telephones by
those squatters and farmers in a position to
have them installed. In proportion as wire-
less telegraphy brought civilisation and busi-
ness closer to the remotenesses of this con-
tinent, so would it encourage settlement and
immigration. With the aeroplane it is going
to do more to give Billjim and his missus
in the far interior a fair spin than any poli-
tician who ever babbled—-that is, assuming
the contrivances are themselves given a
fair spin. The wireless station will ask
for the doctor, for example, and the ’plane
will bring him. Neither is getting anything
like a show at present. Wireless, like every
other scientific development, lives and thrives
on mind-friction. But a nation does not
evolve Faradays, Kelvins and Marconis
if it says to its eager inventors and experi-
mentalists ; “Abandon this field of research;
it is the province of a Government depart-
ment.” And that, with a few trifling quali-
fications, is precisely what the Australian
Government is saying at the present time to
its wireless enthusiasts.
* * • *
The opposition is understandable. The
bureaucrats want to add to the import-
ance of their jobs. In the U.S.A., as here,
longshore men in the Navy Office claimed
wireless as their monopoly at the end of the
war; and they yielded it up only after a
severe struggle in which legislators, distin-
guished University professors and average
members of the public participated. The
Post Office officials are opposed to competi-
tion. The cable companies and the cable
combine are nervous. As against such purely
sectional claims, there are the rights of the
people at large, and all-round equity and
horse-sense. All that the people require from
the bureaucrats is administration; and
going on the history of the past five years
the latter will have their work cut out to
supply it in an efficient form. What the
bureaucrats propose is that, in addition to
administration, they shall themselves
manufacture or import all the wire-
less plants used and allow no one to
control the stations but their servants.
The incompetence of the Post Office has been
a platitude in Australia for years. Wireless
telegraphy would do work which the Post
Office has proved that it is unable to satis-
factorily handle. So mueh for the transmis-
sion of messages inside Australia. As re-
gards communication with overseas coun-
tries, the old method —that of tying up mil-
lions of pounds sterling in thousands of
miles of under-sea cables which can be cut
hundreds of miles from the shore, and which
call for the attention of costly repair ships
—has long been effete. No one wants such
a system preserved but the vested interests
that are exploiting the. community by
means of it. But it will never be sup-
planted on the lines proposed at present.
The Government and its subordinates need
to wake up to the fact that a new force has
arrived in the world. Not a mere amenity,
but a necessity. The administration which
imagines that such a development can safely
be tossed to a few more or less obscure
public servants, to be manipulated by them
for their personal aggrandisement, makes a
great error.
BELSHAZZAR’S LOANS.
The Nationalist members of the N. S. Wale-
Parliament met the other day in secret, with
the veil of oblivion hung over the keyhole, to
elect a leader who, with luck, will be State
Premier for three years after the approach-
ing election-day. What recriminations, if
any, took place is unknown, but the state-
ment to the press tvas that llolman was
reappointed by a majority which would have
been unanimous save for the minority of one.
So Holman, being thus endorsed, can pro-
ceed gaily to “blew” the £13,000,000 which
is expected to represent the year’s loan
spendings. With good fortune at the polls
he should get the State debt, quite apart
from the State's share of the Federal war
debt, up to £200,000,000 before his term
expires; and allowing for increased interest
on new loans and increased interest on
renewals the interest bill will be £10,000,000
a year to a reasonable certainty. As for
the railway deficit, allowing for the interest
question, and the recent increase of wages,
and the next and succeeding increases "of
wages, and the fact that the best lines in the
well-peopled regions are built and it is now
largely a question of making railways to
dead trees and rabbit holes to keep the em-
ployment boom going, it is expected to be
almost anything, or even more than that.
Still, John Storey’s claim to be Holman’s
successor rests on a pretty reliable assur-
ance that if he gets the chance he will be
twice as great a fool as his rival. One sub-
ject that apparently wasn’t discussed at the
meeting was the fixing of an approximate
date for the State bankruptcy. As more and
bigger loans are being boated, and not a
single loan of the lot makes even a shamb-
ling pretence of being reproductive to the
extent of paying its way, and every one
calls for more taxes to keep it up, of
course Holman and Storey contem-
plate bankruptcy unless they contemplate
reform, and they haven’t even got so far
as to hint that their ways need reform.
The railways stand for 61 per cent, of the
Ma State’s debt, and bad as they are they
stand' for the comparatively profitable part.
The new lines will be mostly worse than the
old ones for five reasons —(1) higher interest;
(2) higher wages to construction people;
(3) higher wages to the people who run the
lines when constructed; (4) higher cost of
mateiial; and (5) in many cases more hope-
less country to work in. And the existing
lines will presently be worse than they are
for four reasons —(1) higher wages; (2)
higher interest when the old loans are
renewed; (3) greater cost of repair; and
(4) the depopulation of many country dis-
tricts. At June 30 last, before the higher
wages began, these were some of the State''
“reproductive” assets: —
N.S.W. Lines that Pay neither Interest nor
Working Expenses.
Lost Lost Working
Interest Expenses Total
for Year, for Year. Loss.
Matakana-Mount Hope .. £6OO £53 £662
Tottenham .. .. 620 207 017
Nevertire-Warren .. 2177 676 2853
Fassifern-Toronto .. 1870 1818 3688
Lidcombe .. .. .. 1855 2178 4033
Clyde-Carlingford .. 2060 4018 6987
Raleigh-Coff’s Harbor . . 10,348 1116 11,461
Goulburn-Crookwell .. 7682 86 7768
Koorawatha-Grenfell . . 6582 2835 9417
Raleigh-Coff’s Harbor .. 10,348 1116 11,464
Glenreagh-South Grafton 12,991 335 13,326
Blacktown-Richinond . . 11.558 6808 18,366
Kiama-Nowra .. . . 18,180 5645 23,834
Demondrille-Blayney .. 53,114 6326 69,440
■Joppa-Nimmitabel .. 67,740 4557 72,297
£207,752 £38,764 £246,516
The sum-total of the business is that the
Treasury, on last year’s figures, could have
saved £38,764 by shutting up the lot and
£246,516 by never having built them at all.
When the increased wages add heavily to
the working and repairing cost, and some
more of the cheap loans have fallen due and
been converted into dear ones, it is quite
possible that the Treasury would save
£200,000 a year by shutting up this little
preliminary lot and would have been £500,000
a year better off if they had never existed.
All save two of the ventures were worse off
in 1919 than in 1918, To some extent that
was due to last year’s drought; but generally-
speaking they were growing more and more
disastrous even before the new wage-bill
struck them.
* * * *
In addition to the above there is a long
list of railways which it just pays to keep
open because they earn running expenses —
or earned them before the new wage scale
came into operation—but which it would
have been better (£430,124 better) for the
Treasury if they had never been. And out
of the number—not nearly half the total
mileage—which are really reproductive inas-
much as they pay both expenses and interest,
a great many are expected to degenerate soon
into one or other of the derelict classes. In
addition there are lines which eat up money
but which the Railway Commissioners refuse
to recognise, so that the losses don’t appear
in their accounts. These are unfinished
works, and some of them have been eating
up money and earning not a single copper for
quite a long time.
* * * *
On top of all other things N. S. Wales has
a partnership—about a two-fifths share —in
the following losses, which are mostly grow-
ing worse very fast
Federal Railways.
Lost Lost Working
Interest Expenses for Total
for Year. Year. Loss.
Kalgoorlie .. £217,180 £68,854 £286,034
Oodnadatta . . 79,659 53,076 132,735
Katherine River . . 61,242 18,381 79,623
Canberra .. .. 31 881 912
£358,112 £141,192 £499,304
These figures, added to what went before,
are some of the results of the policy of build-
ing great public works with loans when loans
and materials were cheap and wages com-
paratively low, and when works were being
built mostly in well-watered country not far
from a port. Under the new conditions
they may be anything up .to ten times worse.
Yet railways are far from being the least
profitable thing, though they are the biggest
thing, that the corpse of the Ma State’s
credit is buried in. What the State has
done on its own account for many years
past has been mostly in the name of the
promotion of agriculture, and agriculture in
N. S. Wales is over 80 per cent, wheat and


wheaten hay. The result has been for some
time a continuous falling away in produc-
tion, culminating in the biggest demand for
imported wheat that the State ever knew.
In the circumstances when the two light-
headed leaders of two unballasted parties
enter on a new and more exciting race in
public works construction with the debris of
their old policies accumulating all around,
and with no ideas (except worse ones) than
the old disastrous ideas that made the
trouble, many people are bound to suspect
that they have decided to let the great
smash come, the situation being beyond their
courage if not their intelligence. It suggests
Belshazzar’s feast over again, with this
difference to the credit of good old Belsiiaz-
zart—that the writing hadn’t appeared on the
wall when he commenced the historic banquet,
and he was never accused of owing for the
food. It may not be quite time to advocate
the abandonment of a whole lot of loan rail-
ways so as to economise on wages and make
a trifle by the sale of the materials, for the
full effects of the new pay-sheet and the
inflated interest rates aren’t apparent yet:
but unless there is a complete change of
policy the time is coming as certainly as the
sunrise.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Upside-down Sermon on an Inverted
Text.
No man, however big his wages may be,
can in the long run have more clothes than
he makes himself. If he doesn’t make enough
clothes he may be rich (in alleged money),
but he will be naked. That is the sentence that
Circumstance has passed on mankind in the
aggregate. The word “food” or "machinery”
or anything else may be substituted for
“clothes” to lit in with different cases, but
the lesson holds good, and it should be writ
large on the wall of every Trades Hall and
printed on the back of every unionist’s ticket.
Just now the gloomy fact sticks out Idee
the middle prong of the Devil’s trident that
production has gone down all over Aus-
tralia in an appalling fashion. Wages,
which mean prices, have risen to more than
correspond, so that more pay is given for
Less Work, and the gap is tilled by bigger
loans. But the result isn’t satisfactory. A
man who owns a chop or a pair of boots or
a loaf or a suburban quarter-acre or the
lease of a house may be vastly richer than
he was some years ago, the price of his pro-
perty having gone up in sympathy with
decreased all-round production; but whether
he calls it high cost of living or exorbitant
rent or the wonderful development of the
city (they are all the same thing), it seems
in the end that there is no profit in scarcity,
diminished output, less work, famine or
whatever it may be called (they are also
all the same thing). Even if prices rise,
through diminished supplies, so that the
owner of a loaf or a suit or a beefsteak is
a rich man as rich men went before the
great days of the Less-work gospel, there is
somehow a big worm at the root of the tree.
Nobody seems glad because his breakfast
is an enhanced asset. Therefore, and after
much preamble, it is suggested that the
whole view should be changed, and that
More Work and More Wages should go
together in a new way—that if a man gets
more money per hour he should also be
invited to work more hours so as to get
still more money. In other words, if he
makes out his case for a rise, a further rise
should be forced upon him —with conditions.
A very common state of things is that the
worker who gets something like 2s. per hour
for eight hours demands 2S. Bd. per hour
with a reduction to possibly six hours.. The
figures may vary widely, but the principle is
considered quite reasonable, because it Keeps
the pay the same, whereas it should be con-
sidered quite insane. The only people who
could imagine such a device are those who
think wholly of wages and not at all of
production, the logical conclusion being that
if everybody got 16s. per day for doing no-
thing no production would be needed and
chops and pants would grow on trees. The
all-round result is that the price of the
article produced goes up Bd. to pay the extra
wages and perhaps another Bd. or lOd. to
pay for scarcity caused by famine or de-
creased production, and the end is Bd. more
pay and Is. 4d. or Is. 6d. more cost of living.
Therefore, the man who wants a change
from eight hours at 2s. to six at 2s. Bd., or
desires to make any similar exchange, should
be invited rather to consider the idea of
2s. Bd. per hour for nine hours, wherefore
he would have Bs. more wages thrust upon
him. It would be implied, of course, that
he kept up the old standard of work. In
consideration of his increased pay, whatever
it might be, he would be expected to do
something for his country , by putting up a
fight against shortage, famine and the exist-
ing slavery to the foreign profiteer, who
gets a fresh grip on the country every time
somebody, with or without increased wages,
cuts down production, and who uses his grip
to put prices a notch higher.
Our Own Disease.
A bitter and comprehensive jeremiad by
X. S. Wales ex-Minister Carmichael on
declining production and other matters
brought the Sydney Telegraph to the front
with an anxious bucket of whitewash entitled
“The Decline of Primary Production.” The
paper’s view was that there . was nothing
wrong in a general way with the Low
Tariff and Importing and Congestion policy.
The drought, the war, the big war loans
and the shipping difficulty' had made a
temporary derangement, and, anyhow, there
is a tendency all the world over to move
from the country to the towns. The pur-
pose of this affable but threadbare piffle is
to divert attention from the fact that Aus-
tralia has a disease all to itself. The move-
ment from the country to the towns goes on
everywhere, for manufactures grow more
and more important and stand for an ever-
growing proportion of industry. Man doesn’t
want more food per man than he did 1000
years ago, and with improved machinery he
need devote much less time to growing that
food than he did in old days. But he wants
a thousand things of the town-made variety,
including agricultural machinery, glass win-
dows, furniture, newspapers, motor-cars and
railway plant, that he didn’t worry about in
the days of Alfred the Great. So towns
ought to grow, otherwise there is savagery.
But in N. S. Wales, Victoria and 8. Aus.
especially our movement is not really from
the country to the towns, but from the
towns to The Town. N. S. Wales doesn’t
make quite so bad a showing in this way as
two of its neighbors, yet in 1911 out of 15-
country municipalities 56 were dying, and
six years later 55 were dying, and seven
were dead or vanished from the list. In
other countries people are leaving the farm
and rushing to Goulburn and Geelong and
Gawler to earn bisr money in factories. Here
.tliev are leaving the farm and also leaving
Gawler. That is Australia’s peculiar dis-
ease, and there is at least one possible ex-
planation. The part of Australia that is
habitable according to the European idea
of rainfall and capable of being settled with-
out large improvements which the present
small population can’t comfortably pay for is
a strip partly round the coast. It is a
couple of hundred miles wide in places, or
perhaps rather more, but for a considerable
distance there is no habitable strip at all.
There are five State capitals and one Ter-
ritory capital around this strip, and as the
capital generally tends to be the biggest
place even in countries that don’t kill off
their small towns as Australia does,
this is a struggle to concentrate the
population of 11,310 miles of thin cir-
cular strip in six spots—mostly in
five spots, for Darwin hardly counts yet. If
there were 20 States around the strip and
20 soots all gathering population around
them in the way capitals do, there would
assuredly be more oeople. more industries
and more resources with which to attack the
dry interior. If Australia has really lost
the art of attracting people anywhere except
to capitals, then it plainly needs capitals.
The evil won’t cure itself of its own voli-
tion after the war or after the drought. _ It
was a curse and a raging and increasing
disease before either of them. The arising
of Brisbane and Melbourne after the first
decentralisation shows that decentralisation
makes new centres of industry and expan-
sion. It is time these experiments were
repeated. They are among the few bright
experiments Australia has made.
; —i -
The Defence Department.
From an ex-Permanent Officer: —
The agitation to put a soldier like Ryrie in
place of civilian Pear.ce seems at first sight most
sensible, buit there are a few points to be con-
sidered against it:—•
(1) Instances of eminent soldiers making good
War Ministers or even politicians in English-speaking
countries are rare. The more we know of
Kitchener’s Ministerial activities the worse for his
reputation. Wellington was a failure as a states-
man, and his horror of innovations was the cause
of the Crimean muddle. Grant was not a great
president.
(2) Ryrie (or any other soldier member) is
junior to many citizen and permanent generals whom
he would command when in office, but be sub-
ordinate to at other times.
(3) Ryrie is a Light Horseman, and has fought
throughout in the Eastern theatre. He knows prob-
ably no more of the European style of warfare than
Pearce, and would have, however unconsciously, a
bias towards the mounted arm. If he hadn’t he
would be the first exception I’ve met.
(4) lire knowledge of war required by a Defence
Minister as regards strategy, major tactics and ques-
tions affecting new ideas is largely a matter of
reading and study, and history shows it is acquirable
equally by the interested civilian, the citizen
soldier and the regular. The rise of Prussia in the
sixties of last century was due more to Bismarck,
who was a civilian as far as a Prussian can be one,
than to Moltke, the Army commander.
(5) Perhaps a new broom at the Defence Depart-
ment will do good, though I think Pearce has
succeeded as well as any other politician would have
done.
Australia’s great weakness is its military system,
which insists that when an expeditionary force is
wanted (as it will be in nine wars out of 10) we
must break up our peace organisation and raise new
voluntary units. This violates every strategic prin-
ciple involved, and terribly handicaps us against
enemies who are not so impeded; and histoi-v
warns us of the fate of nations that elect to fight
at home and of their sufferings even in the few
instances where success has been met. It is no
use waiting until war is declared and then blaming
the permanent staff for the delay, disorganisation,
inefficiency and waste that are inevitable under the
present system. After five years’ war and over a
year’s spell I doubt if there is a unit in Australia
fit to take the field. If we are to have an army
at all let it be raised on sound principles and be
ready to be used where it can be of most use to
us. Not only will our power and prestige be in-
creased, but in the long run it means a saving of
blood, treasure ard territ^rv.
As the Man on me Spot Views It.
Most Conservatives of discernment who live
for a while in Ireland end by becoming
Home Rulers. George Wyndham ruined
himself, politically, by doing it when he was
Chief Secretary under Balfour ; and Dud-
ley, one of the few Tory Lord-Lieutenants
of late years, speedily became a Home Ruler.
Now French, the soldier-autocrat, who was
sent to quell, remains to yield. He appa-
rently goes further than the Home Rulers of
1914 and earlier. Short of endangering the
British Empire he would give the Sinn
Feiners all they ask. In fact, his point of
view is as advanced and as enlightened as
that of Thomas Arnold, of Rugby, who,
after visiting Ireland 84 years ago, wrote of
it as “the land of Irishmen, and from which
we ought to go, and not the Irish, if our
consciences clamor against living with them
according to justice.” Since those days
Downing-street has committed itself to the
principle of self-determination, which has
made it more evident than ever that the
desire of the 20 per cent, of Unionists in
Ireland for the English connection does not
balance equitably with the aspirations of
the true Irish who would rather govern their
own country indifferently than have it well
administered by others —and, in point of
fact, the English never have governed it
well. However, there is another agency at
work which is more formidable than any
consideration of equity. The place has got
too hot to hold. Erin has prospered before,
here and there, since the Plight of the
Earls. In Charles ll.’s reign, for example,
English Protection, directed at Irish goods
of all descriptions, ended by debarring the
Irish from taking any English goods. The
effect was as though Ireland had created a
tariff; there was an unprecedented boom
in manufactures, which made the unhappy
country solvent, if not rich, till such time
as its masters across the water began to
take notice of the change. But never in its
history has it experienced such affluence as
it knows to-day. The London Times men-
tioned casually a couple of months ago that
several European countries had been "sound-
ing” Ireland to find out if it was disposed
to accept immigrants from them. Ireland,
the home of the Tearful Exile! The far-
mers are getting such prices for their butter,
pigs and potatoes that they are easily able
to pay their laborers five times the wages
which prevailed in 1913. As to the mill-
workers of Belfast and the artisans of
Queen’s Island, Bradford itself cannot pro-
duce financial equals in their class. When
a country is under-fed and ill-clothed, when
many of its inhabitants are destitute and
most of them are living from hand to mouth,
when its most enterprising people have gone,
then the task of keeping it in subjection is
easy. But when it is bursting with pros-
perity; when its young people no longer
seek their fortunes abroad, but instead re-
gard it as the most desirable place on earth
to have and hold; and when this is expressed
by a passionate revival of the national drama,
literature and all else, then the struggle for
freedom becomes a very different proposition.
No wonder Lord French has abandoned the
conviction of a lifetime.
Growing Grapes in Greenland.
The N. S. Wales Government proposes to
make advances to farmers—the scheme is
described as the Drought Relief Bill —to the
extent of £1 for. very acre of the wheat crop
that failed. So they may live to plant an-
other crop for which the State promises
cheap railway carriage and a guarantee of ss.
per bushel. With the cheap railway carriage
(which is really carriage at half cost) and
the advance and the guarantee, a mighty
struggle is being put up to keep alive the
industry of growing wheat in remote places
for export. The job has come to be a religion
and a holy sacrament. At this crisis Gov-
ernment Meteorologist Hunt, who isn’t a
chronic writer to the papers, was moved to
publish a half-column in protest against
those who say that a great part of Australia
is desert. He pointed out that agriculture
isn’t hopeless in those parts, and said among
other things:—
The expansion of our railways even into Central
Australia is desirable... .The evaporation of water
in Australia is perhaps greater than in any other
portion of the globe. Six or eight feet of water
are annually drunk up by the sun and the wind from
every exposed inch of surface.
More than one-third of Australia has less
than 10 inches of rainfall per annum. Part
of it has less than five inches. Half of it
has less than 15 inches. And the sun and
wind drink up 72in. to 96in. when they can
find that quantity in one place to operate on.
Hunt might have said 144 in. and still been
within the mark. Agriculture pays, and no
doubt pays well, in the favored parts of
the country ; and it can also be practised in
the less favored parts,, because with intelli-
gence and unlimited courage and the patience
of the Sphinx nothing is impossible. It is
likewise feasible to grow grapes in Green-
land ; but why should Greenland specialise
in grapes, and carry them for almost nothing
by train, and give the Eskimo farmer an
advance of £1 per bunch when last year’s
crop has been a failure, and build grape-
railways over its highest glacier with money
borrowed at 64 per cent.—why should it do
these things if whale-fishing is an industry
which can live without all this coddling?
When Greenland becomes over-populated and
produces more in a multitude of natural in-
dustries than it can use or sell, the grape
industry might be tackled even in the bleak
interior; but to begin with it and neglect
other things for it seems foolish. Interior
Australia is a wheat-growing country pro-
vided it resolves to be one; but it won’t pay
in the sense that woollen factories or ship-
building yards will pay. There is a pride in
conquering obstacles, just as there is a feel-
ing of achievement in knocking down a brick
wall with one’s head; but the search for
needless obstacles yields small dividends.
♦
The Case Against the Turk.
•‘Henry Horsecolear” in reply, also in anger:
Your correspondent “D.” (B. 22/l/’2O) holds a
brief for the retention of the Turk in Europe and I
don’t envy him his client or his case.
It is impossible, says “D.,” to “dismember coun-
tries like Germany or Turkey.” Well, no ruler,
unless he is a criminal lunatic, dreams of “dismem-
bering” a nation like Germany—or France or Italy
or Spain or England for that matter. After grievous
and long experience sensible folk have given up
dismembering nations. But patchwork countries or
agglomerations held together by force like Austria,
Turkey in Europe, the empires of Napoleon and
Alexander the Great and Attila just dismember
themselves on occasion. Especially they tend that
way when the ruling race is alien in blood, language,
laws, literature, sentiment, clothes, habits and
religion, when it is looked down on by its subjects
for its mental inferiority, and when there isn’t
enough of it to hold its ground. About 971 per cent,
of the old Ottoman dominions in Europe have been
dismembered already, largely by the indignant in-
habitants themselves, and nothing dreadful happened
except a feeling of relief. None of the awful con-
sequences that are always being foretold took place.
Islam didn’t rise; it only cackled. The other 21
per cent, could probably be dismembered without
raising more than a temporary ripple on the surface
of events. The Ottoman never had a country in
Europe—only a court and a garrison of soldiers and
officials supported on occasion by reinforcements from
Asia and Africa. As he retired bit by bit from
Southern Russia, Hungary, Transylvania, Croatia,
Southern Italy, Moldavia, Wallachia, Serbia, Monte-
negro, Bosnia, Greece, Herzegovina, Crete, Bulgaria,
Roumelia and many of the small islands, the Turkish
(or rather Mohammedan, for it is largely Arab)
garrison concentrated around Constantinople. And
the population of the great centre of Turkdom in
Europe, where a lot of official Asiatic Turkism concen-
trates also, is rather less than half Moslem to-day,
and even that half isn’t all Turk. In the Turkish
European islands that remain one-tenth of the popu-
lation is Moslem. To take the Turk out isn’t
dismembering the country any more than a pub Is
dismembered when a hooligan is taken out of it
after a long row.
The whole case for the Turk in Europe is based
on the assumption that it is his country in the same,
sense that Spain and Germany belong to their inhabi-
tants. It might have become his country if he had
developed the slightest capacity for assimilating the
old population, but he didn’t. As he remained a
stranger he has to leave like one, ha\ ing outstayed
his welcome.
It may be that the Mohammedans in Bombay or
some other spot (there is no very big Mohammedan
population in Bombay Presidency) have been praying
on a day set apart for the preservation of the
temporal power, or an unnamed paper may say so,
but that doesn’t prove that they will take the least
trouble to fight for it, though of course it isn’t very
difficult to raise a religious shindy any day in India.
They didn’t put up a fuss while the Sultan was
losing the great bulk of his temporal power, and
the loss of a scrap more isn’t likely to worry them.
The loss of the Pope’s temporal power didn’t con-
vulse the world either. After seeing the temporal
authority of Islam going by degrees for 300 years
or so, a fuss would seem belated. Probably it is
just a newspaper agitation like the clamor over
the Canberra capital. I have seen days set apart
for prayers for rain and little came of it, and you
can have days set apart by almost anybody for
prayer about almost anything. There are supposed
to be 222,000,000 Mohammedans in the world (not-
-300,000,000) and 67,000,000 Mohammedans in India
(not 72,000,000). A whole lot of them scoff at the
professed Caliph hiding at Constantinople. The
Persians, for instance, have little use for him. The
first Caliph hung out in Persia and there is a ten-
dency to regard the feeble, degenerate, painted doll
beside the Bosphorus as a joke. Even his own priest-
hood in his own city regards him rather in that light.
For many years it has been the custom for the
Sheikh-ul-Islam (boss priest) to depose the Sultan in
writing when he felt inclined, and three out of the
last five were bounced in that fashion. It lowers the
dignity of the alleged Head of the Church when not
only is he always losing bits of temporal power, but
is frequently chucked off his pedestal as a thing of
no account.
“It is axiomatic,’’ says “D,” that the Turk "is
as incapable of governing himself or anyone else
as the Indians —or the Irish.” Will he give the
narne of the dolt who said the Turk was incapable of
governing himself? He can govern himself as well
as he deserves to be governed, and no one else
could govern him as badly as he deserves. The
whole trouble ever since he came to Europe has
been his fixed idea that one of him should be
allowed to govern 15 or 50 Europeans according to
his own ideas. Now the desire is to send him away
to the place where he really constitutes the majority
of the population, which is a part of Asia Minor,
and to let him govern himself. There are two
excuses for a race which wants to govern others —
it should be so pleasing that they are willing to
be ruled over, or so strong that they can’t help them-
selves. The Turk has failed both ways.
And why does “D.” compare the sending away of
the alleged Caliph to Asia to a possible sending of
the Pope to Galilee? The Popes have been in Rome
ever since there were recognised Popes, and they are
at home there. They are admitted by all Christen-
dom, Protestants included, to be the real article.
The alleged Caliph is a vulgar immigrant who brought
his alleged (and stolen) Caliphate with him as
luggage across the water the day before yesterday
or thereabouts. He isn’t an Arab, as tradition re-
quires ; he isn’t a strong and successful protector of
Islam, as tradition requires; he isn’t a soldier; he
isn’t a member of the priesthood. So he should be
sent home if he has a real home. No doubt there
would be trouble if the sham was abolished and no
new Head provided and the Caliphate left blank.
The poorest kind of anti-Pope made some sort of
show at keeping the succession alive till a genuine
successor could be provided. But that is no reason
for talking as if the present bogey was indispens-
able or as if anyone would seriously rise on his
behalf except in the correspondence column. It would
be contrary to precedent, and I hate to see precedent
disturbed.
The Profiteers’ Agents.
All the Boys of the Old Brigade are busy
explaining why that which calls itself Official
Labor nowadays, but is really Stop Work,
didn’t gain an overwhelming victory, and are
assuring the nation that, despite their un-
deserved and unaccountable defeat, the battle
against the profiteers will be maintained.
Well, they ought to know, for they are the
profiteers themselves, or at least they are
the profiteers’ friends, partners, helpers,
assistants, bagmen, flunkeys, apologists, fore-
runners and generally useful men. The
whole go-slow and stop-work and strike-
without-arbitration policy is designed to
reduce local production so that the country
may be more dependent on and more at the
mercy of the outside monopolist, and the
falling off in production has been appalling,
though the value, calculated in depreciated
paper money, may have increased. For
that the leaders of the strike and anti-work
party must be held responsible. It is
to be hoped that the extraneous scound-
rels whom they serve so well show them some
tangible signs of gratitude, for it is a foolish
arrangement to work for any scoundrels
without thanks or payment. The man who
sells his country is despicable but business-
like. The man who gives his country away
is despicable and an a.ss. It may be com-
plained that it isn’t good form for those who
do the foreign profiteers’ work night and day,
in and out of season, to gain popularity and
Parliamentary wages by denouncing the
class; but it is doubtless good policy as help-
ing to disarm criticism. A wolf in sheep’s
clothing can get a lot more credence than
a wolf in his own overcoat. Still, some wolves
would rise superior to that sort of thing and
hang out the garish sign setting forth that
they were foreign profiteers’ representatives,
did business for extraneous Hebrews and
others with monish to lend, and were always
ready to inform on anybody w T ho was found
trying to do a bit for Australia in an in-
dustrial way, just as a different crowd in-
formed on Nurse Gavell, who was trying to
do a bit for her country in her way. There
may have been a lot of reasons why the Old
Work-Stoppers had a poor time at the elec-
tion, despite the weakness of their opponents,
but one reason was that many people began
to think they ought to go to Berlin and stand
for the Reichstag. People who find so many
passionate wrongs and sins about Australian
industry and none about importers ought to
feel at home in a Reichstag or some place
with a name like that.
»
Military Courts.
From another horse-haired Digger:—
The Australian Court-Martial system was not the
only one that failed. The American system, which is
.founded on the British (and that is our own), proved
even worse. Lieut.-Colonel Axsell, who was the


v:. m# »
< lusfr&lia.
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
I ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea. Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Sfay or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE DINING HALL. A LA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Supper. Latest Music.
m
mm
■
Judge-Advocate with the American Army in France,
and was as such at the head of the Court-Martial
system, has condemned it in such severe terms that
a Bill has been introduced into the American Senate
by Senator Chamberlain to completely reorganise
the system. Lieut.-Colonel Anskll, speaking before
the Annual Convention of the Pennsylvania Bar
Association, stated that 75 p.c. of the convictions
in the American Army in France “were such as to
shock the conscience,” and that “no lawyer who be-
lieves in or wants to see established justice by law
can have confidence in or respect for the Court-
Martial system of the United States during the War.”
“The Army of the United States,” he declared, “in
so far as its military justice is concerned, is still in
a condition of serfdom. The military code or articles
of war utterly ignore the fact that the soldier is
still a citizen and as such is entitled to a fair trial
and impartial justice.” Much that Lieut.-Colonel
Ansell said of the American system can be said of
the Australian system; and no time should be lost
in introducing a similar measure for the protection
of the soldier in the not unlikely event of further
trouble. And the basis of the reform must be that
(1) those who constitute the Court shall be lawyers
of learning and experience, and of judicial tempera-
ment ; (2) counsel shall be provided to defend the
accused; and (3) a court of appeal, not military,
shall review all convictions and sentences involving
not less than imprisonment. So long as the matter
is left to officers, as at present, the care will be not
to do justice, but at whatever cost to secure disci-
pline.
The Wool Scandal.
A woeful, wailful tale appears iu the Wool
Record and Textile World (London 1
about the millions that Australia lost by-
selling its wool clip for the war and one
year after in a block or a job lot to the
British Government, and thus losing the
great rise in the market. At least the Wool
Record doesn’t exactly wail, for it belongs
to the country that made the money; but
we do. Prices have become unprecedented,
the highest figure in a long list of November
quotations being 10s. 3d. per lb. for some
of Samuel Wilson’s scoured fleece which
the British Government acquired at
3s. lOjd. Out of 34 lots of scoured wool
quoted 15 varied between Bs. 4d. and 10s. 3d.
per lb., the prices paid here being as low
as 2s. llfd. It is alleged that during the
November auctions in London the British
Government was making over £125,000 a
day profit out of its deal. Still this country
couldn’t send the wool to Europe itself, for
it hadn’t taken the trouble to provide itself
with ships, much as it depended on sea
trade. And the Australian Government
couldn’t advance the wool-men money to live
on until ships could be procured, or buy
the wool itself and hunt for shipping, for
it had already pawned itself up to the neck.
So it had to sell to anyone who could put
the money down and could afford to wait,
and the buyer could name his own price.
He might, indeed, have been a heap less
generous than he was. The value of the
chance that Australia lost might have
bought two or three fleets equal to the Orient
Co.’s. Yet even now no Australian Govern-
ment has taken the hint that this must be-
come a great independent ship-owning
country, by public or private enterprise or
both, unless the next war, which may come
any day, is to find us in the same old trap.
After the old fashion Ministers concentrate
on putting soldiers on the land and building-
railways to bring them off again.
-*
From Macquarie-street:—
The Federal Quarantine Service is apparently alive
to the danger of malaria coming here to stay (B.
22/l/’2O), so it has addressed a letter to all the
medical officers of local Repatriation Committees
giving them definite instructions as to the notifica-
tion of recurrent attacks, or the occurrence of new
cases infected from an ex-soldier parent, with in-
struction also as to the preparation of blood films.
The doctor has to send an immediate collect wire
of each recurrent attack of malaria in patients
under his care, and also of every new case where an
ex-soldier has infected any of his household. A
word of comfort appears in the part of the com-
munication which asserts that the parasites pro-
bably don’t survive a winter in the mosquito host,
and, therefore, interest must centre in the
human host, so that, by watching and treating
recurrent attacks, and by protecting the sufferers
during the illness (i.e., by the use of proper mos-
quito curtains, etc.), the foci of infection may be
removed. Concurrently all possible means must, of
course, be taken to lastingly cure the infected
human host. Upon the patient rests a large respon-
sibility, too. Within his body there are the germs
of a disease capable of taking heavy toll of his
own household. Ills job is to take every precaution
to prevent the mosquito getting at him, and loading
itself up with ammunition for an attack upon the
uninfected.
“Jacko” : Dr. Arthur’s explanation (B.
15/l/’2O) of why the N. S. Wales Y.D. Act
continues to remain inoperative is scoffed
at by the experience of the A.I.F. The
story is that nothing can be done for lack
of an extensive organisation. Now one of
the most successful units in the A.I.F. in
the treatment of Y.D. was composed of a
captain, a staff-sergeant and a handful of
orderlies. The captain, a Sydney man, now
practising in a small way in a suburb, diag-
nosed the disease, and prescribed. The staff-
sergeant, a pharmacist, dispensed the “dope.”
took smears, grew all the autogenous vac-
fines (stock vaccines were proved useless),
performed all Wassermann reactions and
supervised generally. The orderlies did the
wash-out business, also “sealed up.” and
reported progress. From my data the aver-
age period of isolation was ten days,
Expensive apparatus? Rubbish 1 The only
equipment necessary consists of Lane’s
saline apparatus, a microscope, an incu-
bator and the drugs. These are all avail-
able; and practically the whole of that unit
is now in Sydney. The work was not un-
duly strenuous, as is proved by the fact that
this same little band found time every
night to establish a “blue light” from 8
to 10 o’clock where prophylactics and wash-
outs sometimes numbered 50.
" '
“Hannibal, Junior”: Senior cadets have
a hatful of grievances, but this is the one
they are the most savage about. When
compulsory military training was established,
the boys had to do it all in their own time,
Presently, however, this was declared to be
THE UNIMPORTANT DESTINATION.
At the declaration of the Senate poll in Sydney, “Fighting Charlie” Cox (elected Nationalist) was
asked by a voice in the crowd if he was a Freetrader. He replied: “Yes!”
CASUAL IMMIGRANT: “ Excuse me, but where are we (join’? I clean forgot to ask before
I got on board!”
unfair, and it was then decided that half of
the drills should be in the employer’s time.
But some employex-s have worked the oracle
so that pai-ades, of two hours’ duration, sup-
posed to be in employers’ time, do not begin
until 4 p.m. This means that drill is tak-
ing place between 5 and 6 p.m., which in SO
per cent, of the cases is not employers’ time
at all. The cadets i-egai’d it as a mean shift,
to cheat them of what has been recognised
as a fair thing, and it unquestionably has
this public importance—that it turns
thousands of lads into enemies of the cadet
system, which is the very basis of our De-
fence system ; and these lads will be electors
within a year or two.
The only big “public work” which calls
loudly for early completion is the one which
receives least attention—the North-to-South
railway. It proposes to connect two places
that people really want to travel between:
the South, where the population is, and Dar-
win, which, with air navigation, will be the
port for Asia and Europe, quite apart from
its possibilities as a shipping centre. The
North-to-South line will reduce the distance
from Adelaide to Darwin, Wyndham and
the Gulf by some 3000 miles, and also the
distance from Melbourne, so it is a short
cut between places of importance, and short
cuts often pay. even across a desert. In tact,
even the financial prospects of the North-to-
South line are not so bad. At present it con-
sists of two detached fragments. One takes
people to Katherine River, where hardly any-
one wants to go if lie has to stay there, and
it lost £79,(123 last year. The other takes
people to Oodnadatta. where nobody wants
to stay, and it lost £132,735. That makes
£212,358 loss on a work with all its future
before it, said future being its establishment
as a main highway to Central Australia,
North Australia. Asia and Europe, and as
the outlet for a Federal estate of over
500.000 square miles,
,
James Service and Giaham Beuj, a te
trying to pulverise each other politically oi
* generation, coalesced in 1881, and one of
the measures they put through berore hand-
ing over to their trusty lieutenants Gillies
and Deakin, was the Public Service (Abo-
lition of Patronage) Act. It was piously
set forth in the preamble (which, by the
way, has been omitted from re-enactments)
that it was expedient to abolish all patron-
age regarding appointments and promotions,
and to establish instead a just and equitable
system under which qualified persons would
need no favor or recommendation other than
their own merits. Soon, however, the door
which had been thus slammed was opened
furtively once in a while to admit somebody
to a special job. Then a side-door was
knocked in the wall to let in temporary em-
ployees, many of whom became what Tommy
Bent called “temporax-y permanents.” Now
several doors gape wide, and patronage is
almost as rife as ever it was. The Water,
.Forestry and Electricity departments and the
Country Roads Board have, in fact, the
right to appoint their own officers without
reference to any old Public Service Com-
missioner.
It is gravely announced that if Cohen
didn’t charge anything for loans to N. S.
Wales and if ti-awlers lasted for ever, the
State business which that strenuous anti-
Socialist George Fuller has taken under his
wing might so far have almost shown a profit.
But as matters don’t happen that way the
loss may be anything from 15 to 40 thousand
pounds—it depends mainly upon whether, as
is alleged in some quarters, almost any sort
of a punch would now knock a hole through
the plates of the vessels. Of course it is
alleged in reply that the trawlers have
cheapened fish and added to the supply ; and
that’s a yarn that can’t be proved incorrect.
All that can be said is that big buyers of
fish scoff at the story. They allege that the
trawlers never themselves take any but poor
fish, but that in order to make a window-
show the State fishshops, having the Trea-
sury to draw on, pay extravagant prices in
order to secure the good sorts; with the
result that there are people in Sydney who
now vet their fish supply regularly from Mel-
bourne. And any more damning criticism of
the State trawling-cwm-fishshop system than
that can’t be easily imagined.
“Steps are to be taken to ventilate the
Melbourne Town Hall before the Royal
visit,” says a local paper. Even the unimag-
inative aldermen can see that the atmosphere
is going to be pretty sickening.
The Queensland Labor party, in expelling
Higgs for sticking to what the party had
previously declared to be the Labor gospel,
reminds this paper of Judas Iscariot sack-
ing the apostles and disqualifying them for
further apostleship.
As an after-dinner joke Barnes lately told
his Yic. Cabinet colleagues that he shared
with the general public the risks of the rail-
ways over which lie is Minister. When a box
of peaches grown in his own orchard at
Tresco was sent to him in Melbourne and
fas a safeguard) was addressed to “the
Minister of Railways,” the fruit was sampled
to such an extent that only a few of the re-
jects were left when it came to his turn.
One can find 50 excuses but not one
reason for Melbourne Board of Works’
action in ignoring Australian manufacturers
of oil tractors and going to America with its
little order for one. Presently, when the
local industry has been killed, the blessed
Plank will squeak and groan at the high
prices charged by the foreign monopolist
and exclaim, “Why don’t they make these
things here?”
“Gum Leaf”: The illegal-operation trade
goes on briskly in spite of an occasional
death. Uncle Sam has made more progress
along better lines. The Jos. D. Lees In-
stitute of Chicago is typical of hundreds.
The prospective unmarried mother is taken
in and cared for. The highest available medi-
cal skill is provided. She is permitted to con-
valesce prior to returning to her home town.
As a rule she is further assisted on leaving
to the extent of 15 or 20 dollars. The
strictest confidence regarding her sojourn in
the institute is maintained. The child, of
course, is taken by the authorities. At
least one Sydney medico can testify that
during his four years’ intimate knowledge
of this institute not a single “repeat” case
was recorded among the thousands handled;
which upsets the contention of hostile critics
that the Lees and similar institutes are
mere conveniences for confirmed harlots.
The Govex-nment lately appointed a com-
mittee to ponder the brick shortage in Mel-
bourne. The report merely gibbered that
bricks were abnormally scarce owing to the
seamen’s strike and the stoppage of coal* sup-
plies, and that it would be no good making
bricks faster than was done under normal
conditions, as there are not enough brick-
layers to deal with more. Where one might
have expected useful publicity about the fact
that a man now lays 700 bricks per day in-
stead of the 1200 to 1500 of a few years ago.
there was only a vast silence: nor was there
mention of the possibility of increasing the
number by better management. With im-
proved scaffoldings and sane methods of de-
livering materials to the bricklayer, and so
on, outputs of 2700 per day have been
reached by a number of finns in Americ' l
However, it’s no bother to let things slide
at 700 bricks per day, besides which one re-
tains the satisfaction of grousing at the cost
of living and high rents. Incidentally, tens
of thousands of good American tradesmen
run their own motor-cars; but men well
enough off to run their own motor-cars are
no good to the Walshes and the Willises.
I . S. Admiral Sims, giving evidence be-
fore a Senate Committee, said that, when
he went to Europe on the U.S.A. coming
into the war, he was told “not to let Britain
null wool over his eyes” and that they would
“as soon fight the English as the Central
Powers.” It sounds' startling; but in many
counti'ies there are officials who say foolisli
things—they might have been found even in
Australia during the- war. And in the
U.S.A., where a vast propaganda was neces-
sary in order to swing the country the right
way, there were more of these officials than
usual. Every Admii-al when he goes abroad
no doubt gets some advice that wouldn’t look
well on paper. For instance, the chances
are that when Jellicoe came to Australia
lately he was told, “Look here, Britain is an
island that can’t provide for itself, and a
strong navy is indispensable to its life.
Your job is to get from Australia and the
other Dominions you’re going to visit the big-
gest possible contribution you can towards
the upkeep of that Navy.” Thei-e are men
in the Navy Department who might be pre-
pared to nut it even more bluntly than that:
and the importance of what they say can.
easily be exaggerated.


[James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange,
Melbourne. ]
Of Greater Importance than Gold.
The Interstate Commission in the majority report staled ; —■
. .this industry [iron and steel] is the basis of all other
industries, and every country has found it necessary to
encourage its prosperity, not only as it leads to considerable
employment, but because no country can afford to be wholly
dependent on outside sources for a supply of a metal
compared with which gold may even be looked upon as of
secondary importance.”
If all the iron and steel goods imported into Australia were made by our own people
work at Australian rates of pay would be given to not less than
30,000 MEN, ov"/ £5,000,000 per year.
Engineers should use only
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND STEEL.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
Higgs, M.H.R., has at last been expelled
from "the movement” ; and of the old Labor
party there is little except the hide left.
Higgs was bound to strike trouble sooner or
later over the referendum. It came when
the outside bosses of the party ordered him
to join the profiteers and small State
Frighters and incorrigible Tories and vote
No on questions on which he had, with the
approval and even on the instructions of the
party, previously voted Yes. Higgs is too
good a democrat to drag the referendum in
the gutter as the new Labor bosses have per-
sistently done; and his expulsion ought to
make the democrats who are left in the party
do some hard thinking.
THE LESSON IN DEPORTMENT.
In preparation for the visit of the Prince of
Wales articles on Court etiquette are beginning to
appear in the daily press.
GRANNY : “Never mind yer tariff nor nothin'.
Just you learn not to disgrace me before
the young Prime.”
Apparently the German tooth still left un-
drawn in S. Aus. is long and strong and
sharp. A commission is sitting there inquir-
ing into allegations of disloyalty, and the
commissioner wants information regarding
outbursts of Hunnish enthusiasm over the
sinking of the Lusitania and such-like inci-
dents. To those who had “a sense of risk.”
he promised “protection”: in order to save
them from the fang before-mentioned he would
take evidence on such matters in camera
and “observe every possible precaution that
their names and the nature of their testi-
mony would not be made public either in the
press or in the report.” If that’s the condi-
tion S. Australia is in. then S. Australia
demands a very energetic purging.
Galway, of S. Aus., says frankly in a series
of farewell reflections that a Governor
there hasn’t enough work to do. Well, when
the S. Aus. household hasn’t got enough
work to keep a laundress permanently on
the premises, a ueripatetic suds-lady is en-
gaged for half a day or so per week. There
seems no particular reason why the States
shouldn’t be served by a Governor in the
same way. If we must import him let li m
have his rounds like any tinker who can’t
find enough tinkering to do in one household.
The Labor press once more upholds the
sacred right of revolution. In the Labor
Call of the 15st inst. it was urged that “the
people must take it [the control of profiteer-
ing] into their own hands.” The minority
must rule, brethren. A majority of the
people has decided against Ryanism; but
the minority now insists on the privilege of
running things just as though there had been
no election iast month. Well, if the irre-
pressible section really wants bloodshed and
looting, it should start the uplift in a logical
manner, commencing with the worst sorts of
profiteer. These are mostly to be found in
the U.S. and Japan. Who will help to orga-
nise a shop-breaking, window-smashing expe-
dition to Chicago or Hakodate?
A cable confirms what the princ'pal Eng-
lish aircraft paper reported lately—that
’planes had demonstrated their ability to
torpedo battleships. The contrivances were
just being perfected when the Armistice was
signed ; and it was some months before they
were given a trial. The story which then
drifted through the Navy was that, hiding
themselves behind a smoke screen, the aero-
planes engaged in the demonstration were
lost to the sight of the warships, and that
the first thing the latter knew for certain
was the bumping of dummy torpedoes
against their sides. It is alleged that in
this experiment five out of six ships were
thus hit. If there is truth in this story, as
there appears to be, one can understand
why Jellicoe was called back suddenly.
Apparently nobody had troubled to find
out before the declaration of the poll whether
Cox, who led all other candidates in the
N. S. Wales Senate elections, was a Pro-
tectionist or a Freetrader. All that was
ascertained was that he was likely to be a
good party man, and that if advertised suf-
ficiently as “Fighting Charlie” he could win.
So his political views didn’t matter —if he
had any; to this day it is doubtful whether
he really knows what Freetrade is. And
Cox’s case is fairly typical. In the circum-
stances, with Parliament filled with men like
that, what hope has the country got of
decent administration, which is more impor-
tant than legislation? The further we go
the more certain it is that the time has come
to adopt something of the American and
Swiss system and give the head of the
Government power to choose Ministers from
the ablest men of the country, whether in
Parliament or out of it. And if one happens
to be chosen who is in Parliament, he must
go out on taking office.
Nationalism in N. S. Wales is more embar-
rassed by some of its alleged adherents than
it ever was by men like Ley and Bavin.
J. Macarthur Onslow, who beat “Tomato”
Jessep, of Waverley, as an Independent and
then walked into the Machine, is a case in
point. He is tempestuously anti-Holmanite.
On the other hand, he is determined to cling
to politics if only to save himself from death
by boredom. But he must have the Nation-
alist organisation behind him if he is to
win in the Eastern Suburbs, so he remains
in the party, albeit in very much the spirit
in which a lifelong Rechabite might spend
his days and nights in a 3d. bar. The prob-
able solution of an absurd situation is that
he will be sent to help block progress, for
the rest of his life, as an M.L.C. It is
usually the way N. S. Wales fills its Upper
House —the place which, as 11. D. iueintosh
explained in England, is “the same as your
House of Lords.”
From the Federal lobbies:—
Hughes’s intentions regarding the vacancies in
his Cabinet are alleged to be causing dissension,
and the probability is that William is not finding
it easy to testify to his affection for his old cob-
bers Burchell, Lamond and Laird Smith in the
large practical manner that those gentlemen expect.
Each one reckons on recognition for past loyalty,
but as there are only two actual vacancies Hughes
cannot gratify his personal desires without injuring
his not-too-robust repute in the Tory wing of his
party. He is trying to ease the strain by propos-
ing another portfolio—of Foreign Affairs—and there
is a yarn as yet unsunported by evidence that he
will have Joe Cook’s billet to dispose of at an early
date. Joseph is mentioned as a starter for the High
Commissionership, but Watt is also not blind to the
attractions of the billet, and it may be that he is
producing an electrical atmosphere in the Cabinet
room. Anyhow, Rumor has found Watt a great
subject for her sportive fancy, and mentions his
retirement or resignation about a dozen times a day.
It was quite in accord with the trend of
things in Australia that the first vessels
which, after be.ng hung up by the recent
strike, were permitted to get away were
owned by Chinese. If there is any crucify-
ing of “capital” to be done, Australian Lab r
seems to have made up its mind that it shall
be the Australian variety that goes up on
the cross.
The Commonwealth Gazette notifies that
blushes contain.ng animal hair are not to
be admitted to Australia from Asia without
“a cert ficate of cleanliness.” But persons
suffering from venereal disease pour into the
Commonwealth from all over the world, and
no “certificate of cleanliness” is required in
their case. The difference is that Jap hair-
brushes have no vote and no relations who
have votes.
Queensland keeps putting up dismal records.
It has had the biggest percentage increase
of prices during the Ryan-Tbeodore period
(£B3 10s. per cent, as against £G3 lGs., £6O
LOs. and £55 12s. per cent, in the next three
States) ; it lias had the biggest rise of prices
during the past year; and it had the biggest
rise last month, when in three States prices
actually went down a little. And this big
rise was mostly caused by the upheaval in
meat, the one article that Ryan’s meatshops,
supplied with low-priced commandeered ox,
was to make of record cheapness.
HUMPTY-DUMPTY SAT ON A WALL.
“The determination of consumers not to buy
potatoes at the high prices demanded by importers
has met with great success. Prices for the best
varieties were reduced by £8 to £l6.” —Sun.
THE LADY: “ A-ha! I know the stuff to give
Humpty now!”
The recent intimation that the N.S.W.
National party was facing the prospect of an
election short of funds may be taken as a
hint to those who have money to spare to
come along and spare it; and as the Holman
Government expects to be in charge during
the visit of the Prince of Wales there is not
likely to be any poverty. Perish the thought
that Holman and his friends should use the
Prince’s visit for the purpose of filling party
coffers; but if they mistake the person w r ho
sends a large cheque to aid their election
propaganda for somebody of public spirit
whom the Prince would delight to honor, it
w'ill be only in the natural order of modern
politics.
The war having simmered down a little
in Russia, the Third Red Army (con-
scripted) has been formed into the First
Army of Labor (conscripted). It looks like
the w'ild, hilarious freedom the Israelites
enjoyed in Egypt, where every man could do
as he liked provided he liked what Pharaoh
liked.
An Anti-Profiteering League has been
formed in Sydney, the members to swear off
the use of articles for which they think the
prices excessive. “The League proposes to
start with perishable goods.” Naturally.
Perishable goods are local goods, the im-
perishable sort being mostly imported. And
what Sydney league would begin with the
importers? Probably they make half the
League.
S. Australia is kicking up no end of a row
because the Commonwealth Government,
which began selling groceries at cost price
to its East-West railway employees at Port
Augusta, now lets others have the goods. The
Commonwealth Government’s sin is that it
sells at from 10 to 15 p.c. below local prices,
and the State Government says this “en-
croachment on the rights of the people must
be restrained —by legal means, if that be
necessary and possible.” The State Govern-
ment hasn't explained so far who the Com-
monwealth is if it isn’t the people; and if
it is the people the Law isn’t l.kely to do
much to restrain them from encroaching on
their own rights. As public work is done at
present in Australia this paper doesn’t get
enthusiastic about the incursion of Govern-
ments into new businesses, but the S. Aus-
tralian State Government’s theory that the
Commonwealth is something outside the
people wants clouting-. The Commonwealth
Government represents all the people, where-
as Bice, M.L.C., the State Government’s
spokesman in this matter, .represents only the
propertied section of it.
The recent 20 per cent, rise in fares is
already beginning to make itself felt in the
outer suburbs of Sydney. Furniture re-
movers are working at high pressure shifting
the small man away from the fresh air and
the elbow-room. The introduction of the
zone system would mend matters, but
majority rule is one of the boulders on that
track. And nobody having once arrived in
power seriously thinks about the? boosting
of towns outside the capital, which of course
is the great cure.
McPherson and Maokinnon have com-
mitted the Vic. Government to introduce next
session a bill to authorise an agricultural
bank to assist farmers and graziers. Lawson
and Mackinnon were converted long ago by
Mclver, Secretary
for Lands, but
McPherson hung
back till he made a
tour of the irriga-
tion districts.
George Turner was
the first Minister
to launch a State
Bank Bill in the
Vi c. Parliament,
but he let Shiels
freeze it out with
one of his four-
hour speeches—de-
livered sitting, by
the way, because he
did not feel well
that evening. The
new measure will
be worth watching.
And if it does more
than the Common-
wealth Bank is
authorised to do, it
will be still better
wort h watching.
The old idea that a
bank can’t make
things too easy for
“the settler” needs
close inspection.
You wouldn’t do a
man a good turn by
offering him money
at 2 p.c. to go and
grow asparagus on
the hobs of Hell; and yet that’s the sort of
thing the Agricultural Bank did in Westraliu.
After much backing and filling Cabinet
sanctioned penny fares on 11 out of the 1!
suburban terminal sections of the Melbourne
tramway system. As a bit of gammon for
the benefit of country members, three other
sections have been stuck up by Ministers on
the ground that the Railway Commissioners
say that the competition will entail loss of
railway revenue. In this way friendly coun-
try members are given a chance to show
that ministers are in power who will not
give the town anything which may put
burdens on the country. That’s how the
political game is played.
Bananaland Premier Theodore’s team is
growing revolutionary, too. James, the
arch-militant of a few years ago, has seceded,
and fiery Charlie Collins, of Bowen, has
been telling the industrialists that I.W.W.
methods are no good for Australia. Butler
has been indulging in hard criticism of the
Beerburrum Soldiers’ Settlement, and an-
nouncing that no party leader is going to
make a slave of him; and Peterson, who
represents a farming constituency, has been
complaining of the hobbles. Theodore’s hap-
piest day tor a year will be when he steps
on the boat that will take him away.
“Gallery” : A struggle is expected for the
leadership of the new Country party in the
Federal Parliament. Two old hands, Greg-
ory and McWilliams, are about equally con-
vinced of their ability to command the squad,
and Edmund Jow’ett’s looking-glass has
assured him that he is astonishingly like
Napoleon. But the new’ and untried Hay-
seeds, who are a majority of the party, are
not enamored of the trained professionals
who merely became farmers to save their
salaries, and may quite reasonably concen-
trate on Hill, who has already had a sniff
of Parliamentary life. Gregory and
McWilliams ai’e generally States-men on
national questions, but compared with the
new’ spruikers for Cow and Corn they jostle
the shade of Toby Barton for the Big Aus-
tralian prize.
TALENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“With our straitened means and our increased
calls, we need the best talent in Parliament.”
Pericles, Julius Caesar, Pitt,
Walpole, Richelieu and Judas the Jew —
Each has a wreath of fame to fit
A head in which six-and-five made two.
For tins is one of the statesman’s tricks
Of the parlor magic he loves to do —-
Oh, the soul of our poli- (confound them) ties
Is a mathematical sense askew 1
One and one by the old, old rule —
A rule that is simple, devout and true —
In shop and office and street and school
Are the half of four when it’s clean cut through;
But where would the boast of our progress be,
And how would our skies of finance be blue
If the people in politics couldn’t agree
To count their chickens before they grew?
And that is the reason, as all men know,
That talent as fresh as the morning dew
Must tackle the figures when set in a row
If the debts are large and the pounds are feu-.
If five and five could be twenty-eight—•
As they are when you get the political view—•
Then it’s clear that you wouldn’t have long to wait
Till a loan for desperate needs was due.
Desperate needs make desperate men,
And potatoes and talents are equally few;
But the person-in-office has still his pen,
And a pen’s the source of an lOU.
Joys may stagger and hopes may lay
While the tax-collector is twisting the screw;
But somebody smiles as he handles the bag
In the bland old manner of Judas the Jew.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Bringing irv tke Cows.
TKc morrnn© dip
Sacking an
unsuitable
employee
A ticklisk moment
witk ike plougk.
Crossing a. Creek.
Loosening Bullock waggon
*' mate. ! yer don't happen
to Have a. fill uv tobacco
about yw > do y<zr ? "
. Yairs, I’got a plu£> er'dark*,
§ do yer Smoke dark ?*'
LIFE IN OUR HOMELAND.
“Boxing, high diving, desperate jumps from dizzy heights, the breaking cf rough horses and rough men, reckless leaps on to galloping
thoroughbreds, fights and more in this the first real picture of life in our homeland.” —Advertisement fer a new Australian mo[?]ing picture.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
<BHAS>
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc,,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE —
H. T.. SI-lACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMITH, London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
I’. X. KIIIK i Agent i.
ADELAIDE OFFICE: C 2 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Geiatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Moderate Charges.
Economical Management.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Specially Qualified by Act. of Parliament to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY
UNDER POWER, AGENT, ETC.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £15,000,000.
Booklet on Application.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Undoubted Security.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
R. L. MASSIE, Secretary.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Englisix, Scottish and Australian
Bank
Net Profits on
Busi- Repurchase
ness of Old Written Re-
Profits. Deposits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1907.. 58,324 659 5 p.c. = 26,972 8,750 186,169
1908.. 61,784 699 5 „ „ 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909.. 62,194 937 6 „ „ 32.'>66 9,928 222,827
1910.. 71,878 1211 6 „ „ 3f,366 22,000 241,550
1911.. 76.180 711 7 .. .. 37.761 21.500 259,180
1912.. 93,381 1413 8 „ „ 43,1 - 55 14,000 296,819
1913. .107,694 1315 8 „ „ 43,155 15,700 346,973
1914. .118.036 1315 8 „ „ 43,155 15,700 407,4G9
1915.. 97,685 2215> 8 „ „ 43,155 10,600 447,614
1916. .108,196 2015 8 „ „ 43.155 17,000 498 270
1917. .107,917 3615 8 „ „ 43,155 18,000 548,647
1918. .130,169 3615 9 „ „ 48,549 18,000 615,882
1919.. 108.180 4317 10 „ „ 53,944 20,500 653,935
Apparently there was a slump in profits of
about £22 000 last vear. But things are not
always what they seem. For many years
past the management has been eoutent to
vote £2500 to the Officers’ Provident Fund.
Even when in 1918 the profits climbed past
£130,000, which was very nearly 25 p.c. on
the capital—written down., certainly—only
£3OOO was voted. But probably because the
directors have softened their hearts or,
probably again, because it has become patent
to Boards that bank clerks, like other em-
ployees, have grown more fractious, the
amount voted out of the past year’s profits
is £25,000. Even then, after paying a 10
p.c. div., absorbing £53,944, there remained
£5B 553 for nominally writing down assets
and for reserves. And the writing down of
assets probably amounts to the creation of
inner reserves.
Luck has favored the shareholders. When
the old E., S. and A. burst (this column
irreverently called it at the time the Exc.ited,
Staggered and Astonished), the depositors
were prevailed upon to accent (they didn’t
have much option) certain stock: approx-
imately one-fourth each of 4 p.c. perpetual
debentures, 4 p.c. terminable deposit receipts
(since paid off), 3 p.c. perpetual inscribed
stock and 3-41 p.c. redeemable deferred stock.
For manv years past the maximum of 44
p.c. has been paid on the deferred stock.
Out of the profits, after making various
liberal deductions, one-fourth is to be em-
ployed to redeem the deferred; and it is
bought in the open market. Of course, since
even 44 p.c. deferred stock isn’t worth par,
the purchases are made at a discount. In
the past year the £16,183 set aside out of
the 1918 profits bought £20,500 (face value).
The profit thus made out of the bank’s old
depositors (presuming they still hold) is
shown in a separate column in the table; anl
the total amount of stock nurchased is used
to provide new premises or write down old
ones. The old-deposits accounts have moved
as follows:
1896. 1910. 1915. 1919.
Debenture
stock. . £983,547 £983,547 £983,547 £983,547
Terminable
receipts 891,454 Nil Nil Nil
Pref. insc.
stock.. 889,419 889,419 889,419 889,419
Deferred
stock.. 808,758 759,500 686,000 612,500
£3,573,178 £2,632,466 £2,558,966 £2,485,466
No doubt, both in 1893, when the reconstruc-
tion took place, and in 3896, when the re-
arrangement was made, the assets were so
depreciated that 3 p.c. was all the bank could
afford to pay. But things have changed a
lot since then: and it isn’t astonishing if
some old depositors who saved the bank by
accepting stock, and still draw no more than
their 3 and 4 and at most 44 p.c., feel rather
sore when they see the shareholders getting
10 p.c. hud putting by a good deal more than
that. But perhaps they feel sorest of all
because the bank redeems deferred stock, not
at its face value, but at its market value.
However, the very circumstances that
make the old depositor uncomfortable make
not only shareholders but new depositors
very comfortable. For the old deposits, still
amounting to nearly 24 millions, are for all
practical purposes capital; they rank after
all new liab’lities. So the shareholders have
the use of 24 millions of very cheap per-
petual deposit money; and the new deposi-
tors have the guarantee of all this as well
as of share capital and visible and invisible
reserves. As this has come to be recognised,
it is no wonder that new deposits have been
offered fieely:—
Liabilities.
„ , 1914. 1918. 1919.
Jjotes
etc 549,546 756,655 869,594
Old debts .. .. 2,575,566 2,505,966 2,485,466
Deposits at interest 3,810,818 5,189,199 5,896,649
Free deposits .. 3,041,110 4,199,262 5,041,601
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 4,206,486 5,643,789 5,966,081
Premises .. .. 300,029 234,330 316,086
Advances .. .. 6,452,765 7,956,943 9,158,935
And the bank has evidently gained a good
borrowing connection, too. The remarkable
growth of the advances is in part due to
the also remarkable growth of the capital
cities during the last few years; for the
11.. S. and A. always has favored suburban
branches. It has about 40 in and around
Melbourne, and Sydney is sprinkled with
them too. A bank that hasn't pushed out
into the country has always been regarded
in Australia as failing in its duty: but there
are more cheers coming from this pnper for
the bank that, while not neglecting the coun-
try, is on hand and readv to give a leg up
to the little industries tb"«\ in Australia,
mostly occur in the suburbs.
* * # *
Dai.gf.ty and Co., Ltd , pastoral finance,
shipping, merchaud.se and general agency
people:—
Written off
June, Profits. Dividends. Premises. Deserves.
1908. .£142,187 7 p.c. = £70.000 £30,000 £340,311
(.5 p.c. on prefs.)
1909.. 156,502 30,000 390,771
1910.. 211,808 j pPf ” SbJoo! 40.000 457,579
1911.. 209,138 |p” 25’000j 40,000 521,717
1912. . 207,438 UPf* ” f^oooJ 40,000 684,155
1913.. 213,377 j J 60,000 642,532
1914.. 209,483 j s££ - 20,000 1 ~ 747,015
1916.. 206,672 j ?,££ ” 25,000 1 40,000 808,687
1916.. 203,857 | p°.P f ' C - ’’ 1 2 ) | 40,000 847,544
1917. . 260,227 j \ 100,000 852,771
1918. . 251,000 j ” “SS I 25 ’ 000 91 3,771
1919.. 252,157 | ” I 30 ' 000 070,928
This co. has so many nets out that something
like general disaster* would have to overtake
Australia and Maoriland before it would be
obliged to show shareholders an empty basket.
Of course a universal drought would hit it
badly; but so comparatively little of the
money with which it works is payable on
demand or short notice that it can afford to
wait for the inevitable recovery. And the
sheep-raising industry, considering the size
of it, recovers from a smash with wonderful
speed. In any case, however, the co. has
nowadays so many agencies and side-lines that
it can show fair results in a bad season, and
it uses the good ones to strengthen its visible
and internal reserves. During the past five
years, for instance, it has written no less
than £235.000; off its premises account, and
that is independent of the regular provision
for writing down leaseholds; and there is
very little doubt that that £235,000 is as
truly accumulated profit as the £223.913
which has been added to the visible reserves.
Probably this gives as good an idea as any
comparison can of the progress the co. has
made in the last few years:— l
Liabilities.
1910. 1914. 1919.
Capital .. .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000 t
Perpetual 44 p.c. 519,459 509,749 505,310
4 p.c. 1,780,000 1,753,391 1,731,644
Terminable 5 p.c. - 157,878
„ 4 p.c. 573,638 303,953 18,310
31 p.c. 12,150 1,000
Sundry creditors, etc. 3,116,334’ 3,116,488 2,606,738
Assets.
Advances, properties,
etc. .. .. 4,869,085 4,624,864 3,652,376
Premises, etc. .. 780,729 815.409 42Q.595
Stock ■■■■'•.. ..• 205,898 288,930 535,243
Sundry debtors .. 94?, 153 1,017*421 1,107,095
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 1,281,295 1,295,971 2,016,399
The only liabilities that could seriously
trouble the management in a sudden crisis
are “sundry creditors, etc.”; and note that
in the past five years they have been reduced
by £510,000, while stock and cash and in-
vestments have increased by no less than
£967,000; and meantime there has been an
actual reduction of £150,000 in tbe debenture
stock and debentures. Of course this doesn’t
mean that the co. is £1,627,000 better off
than it was five years ago; but it does mean
that, besides being approximately half a
million better off, it is taking less risks with
over a million of borrowed money. Yet, in
spite of these lessened risks, the gross profits
are now out of all comparison greater than
those of a few years back: —
Five Years Five Years
to 1914. to 1919.
Gross profits £2.773.521 £3,820,96:5
Ord. dividends paid .. .. 400.000 590.000
Wrtten off premises .. 170,000 225.000
Added to visible reserves .. 356,244 223,913
From the gross profits deduct salaries and
other working charges, taxation and interest
on debenture stock and debentures, and you
get the net profits. Taxation has taken the
largest bite out of the phenomenally in-
creased earnings:—
English. Australasian. Total.
1913 .. £11,786 £12,614 £24.400
1914 .. 17,939 14,790 32,779
1915 .. 24,236 16,340 40,596
1916 .. 48,706 32,921 81,627
1917 .. 175,710 62,767 238,477
1918 .. 126,457 116,918 243,375
1919 .. 114,995 86,209 201,204
Before the war it was thus reckoned a fair
thing that England, which provides most of
the money, and Australasia, which earns in-
terest for it. should take approximately equal
cuts; but from June. 1914. to June, 1917,
England collected £245,(L2 as against Aus-
tralas a’s £ll2 028, so d.fferent was Eng-
land’s idea of financing a war from Aus-
tralia’s. It means, of course, that Eng-
land has done a far greater proportion of
the inevitable paying and is finished with it.
while Australia has given its 10U carrying
interest.
<■ * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank oe Victoria :
Piofit Profit on
on Property Total Dividend. Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. (7 p.c.) serves.
Dec., 1913.. £2704 £lB7 £2891 £2,679 £39,566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2.679 39,584
Loss. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1914.. 2668 85 2583 2.679 39,488
June, 1915.. 2473 104 2309 2.679 39,118
(0 P.c.)
Dee., 1915.. 2507 10 2197 2,296 39.319
June, 1916.. 2282 2232 2.296 39,305
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1916.. 2907 195 3102 2678 39,729
June, 1917.. 2714 83 2797 2178 39,848
(8 p.c.)
Dec., 1917.. 2591 241 3132 3061 39 919
June, 1918.. 2983 2983 3061 39,841
Dec., 1916.. 3088 120 3208 3001 39.9C8
June, 1919. . 3032 3032 3061 39,959
Dec., 1919.. 3210 3210 3061 40,108
This concern is a mere shadow of the opulent-
looking Land Mortgage Bank Melbourne
knew prior to the ’nineties. It then had a
paid capital of a quarter of a million, and,
besides, played with nearly a million of
debentures. It crashed magnificently when
trouble came, and when creditors clamored
an attempt was made to get in uncalled capi-
tal. After several writings down the share
register now tots up only £76,529 —145, '< < 0
£1 IBs. shares paid to half a guinea. The
tumble was really worse than that, for some
years ago the Freehold Assets Co., which
purchased the remains for 12s. per share,
put a half-crown per share into the concern.
The Freehold Assets apparently hit a good
bargain, for the old properties have been
unloaded at a small profit on written down
book values, and surplus net assets are now
worth nearly 16s. 6d. per share according to
the accounts. During the past seven years
the balance-sheet figures have moved in this
way:—
Dec., ’l2. Dec., ’lB. Dec., ’l9.
Mortgages .. .. £7,561 £28,221 £23,616
Balarces owing .. 52,256 21,170 21,007
Properties .. .. 973
Cash,, debentures, etc. 39,403 70,811 75,743
Total assets ..£100,193 £120,202 £120,366
Liabilities .. .. 60 230 230
Net assets ' ..£100,143 £119,972 £120,136
But rheantime £18,200 of capital has been
called up.
* * * *
llotLl Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney), which
began in 1905 with a deficit of £BB2 repre-
senting preliminary expenses:—
, Dividends.
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1909. . £14,490 £lO5O B*p.c.= £6,375 £7,065 £27,005
1910.. 17,208 1050 84 ~,,. 6,375 9,783 36,783
£25,000 transferred to capital. . .. 11.788
Profit on Investment, £ 45,600.. .. 57,388
BontiS on old. shares (374 p.c.), £37,500 19,888
1911.. 18,465 1050 10p.c.= 10,000 7,415 27,303
.Bon, son pref. shares, £4377 . . . . 22 926
£20.000 transferred to capital. . . . 2,926
1912.. 21,152 230 10p.c.= 10,000 10,922 13,848
All Shares.
1913.. 18.091 10 p.c. = 12,000 6,091 19,939
1914.. 13,957 10 „ ~ 12,000 1,957 21,896
1915.. 15.615 10 ~ ~ 12,000 3,615 25,511
1916.. 15,571 10 „ ~12,000 3,571 29,082
1917.. 15,350 10 „ ~ 12,000 3,350 32,432
1918.. 16,633 10 „ ~ 12,000 4,633 37,065
1919.. 16,017 10 ~12,000 4,017 41,032
Though 10 p.c. dlvs. are maintained with
ease, profits are not so good as they used to
be. Hotel managements depending on other
things besides beer have struck many diffi-
culties during the past couple of years, higher
costs and heavier wages sheets having cut
into catering profits especially. Tariffs have
been increased, but the new minimum wage
has arrived to again upset calculations. Dur-
ing the latest run there have been other
troubles, too; there were blanks in the visi-
tors’ book for some months because of the
’flu, and the abandonment of the Svdney
Show must have been a hard knock for the
Metropole, which has a very w'de Hayseed
connection. Then prolonged drought' left
gaps in the latter portion of the year’s trad-
ing. As a compensation, however, the return
of the Diggers brought Mum and Dad and
the family to town, and helped the Metropole
to make good some of the leeway.
Though the past couple of years have
meant hard scratching for the management,
shareholders have nothing to complain about.
Instead, they should feel grateful that they
have men in charge who could manage to
scrape together profits to more than cover
the usual 10 p.c. dividends. Of the reserves
of £41,082 shown in the table £6OOO stands
to the credit of a machinery renewal account,
£l5OO is earmarked for furniture renewals
and £4OOO for general renewals. Whether
some of this £11.500 will be called fbr pre-
sently to make good the wear and tear, of
plant, etc., is not clear; the manner in which
these reserves have been built up suggests
that certain renovations and replacements are
provided for out of revenue, in which case
jhese accounts may be truer reserves than
their titles imply. The provisions ai’e cer-
tainly large; that for machinery exceeds the
book value by £1000: the furniture renewal
account is only £3OOO short of the book value
of all sticks, etc., leaving the £4OOO for
general purposes. But, reckoning these ap-
propriations as true reserves, the margin of
profit available for setting aside has not been
nearly so wide since the war created abnor-
mal conditions. Still, satisfactory progress
has been made, as this comparison, covering
the period since the last capitalisation of
reserves, shows: —
1912. 1918. 1919.
Assets other than property
and plant .. .. £21,911 £48,940 £53,918
Less liabilities .. .. 2,063 4,875 5,836
Net liquid assets .. £19,84.8 £44,065 £48,082
There has thus been a visible improvement
of £28,234 in seven years after giving share-
holders 10 p.c. in dividends on a capital
increased by two bonus share issues which
added £45,600 to the amount to be fed with
d-vs. All but. £lOOO of the present paid capi-
tal of £120,000 is represented by the tine
freehold hotel, plant and furniture, and the
co. is in the comfortable position of having,
besides the fixed assets Bs. per share more
or less liquid.
The Farmers and Citizens’ Trustees
Co. (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Deficit
Towards (Flotation
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Expenses).
Dec., £740
1910.. £99 £99 641
1911.. 307 Nil 307 334
Reserve
1912.. 371 Nil 371 37
1913.. 291 Nil 291 R°B
1914.. 402 3 p.c. =£353 49 377
1915.. 518 4 „ „ 471 47 424
1916.. 734 5 „ ~ 589 145 569
1917.. 995 5 „ „ 589 406 975
1918.. 835 5 „ ~ 089 240 1221
1919.. 911 5 „ „ 589 322 1543
For a 10-year-old trustee co. this one shows
first-class results. Either some of the earli-
est clients of the co. have been considerate
enough to have early funerals or it has had
the benefit of transferred trusts. Anyhow,
already there is 74 p.c. showing on capital;
and as nine-tenths of the latter is represented
by Government securities, shareholders
have every reason to be satisfied with their
little venture, apart altogether from any
comfort which they may be able to get out
of its existence.
* * *
Adelaide Steamship Co. shares have had a
sharp rise lately in anticipation of the issue
of new shares. The plan is now disclosed.
It is found more convenient to wind up the
present co., with its £780,000 authorised
capital, and start a new one under the
same name, with a capital of three millions.
Each present share will carry three in the
new co. The A.S.C. has been in business
since 1875. and has gradually taken over
the business of most local ventures of a rival
nature. "
* * * *
Standard Waygood Hercules, Ltd., the
Sydney co. which is an amalgamation of sev-
eral engineering and electric lift businesses,
is contemplating further expansion. Ful-
some time the directors have been anxious
to extend the co.’s electrical manufacturing
interests, but the outlook has been so un-
certain that they have hesitated to plunge.
At last, however, they see signs of a more
sympathetic feeling towards local manufac-
ture, and lately were successful in picking
up a £138.401 contract fi’om the Sydney City
Council Electric Light Department. Re-
cently the G. Weymouth Pty., Ltd., was
absorbed. £30,000 in cash and £5OOO in
shares having been paid for an 88 p.c. in-
terest in that successful Melbourne business.
But “having entered the field as a com-
petitor for the supply of electrical generating
machinery, the Board decided that it was
necessary to have behind the co. a concern
which had already developed and proved
designs.” The directors therefore negotiated
for a linking-up with one of the big English
concerns, Dick Kerr and Co., Ltd., but that
business has since been absorbed by a big
English amalgamation which also includes
the Coventry Ordnance Works, Phoenix
jjynam-o Co., Siemens, and Willans and
Robinson, and which is to take the title of
the English Electric Co., Ltd. When the
Standard-Waygood-Hercules proposition came
before this big combination it was looked
upon with a kindly eye, and an agreement
has been come to whereby, if S.-W.-H.
shareholders approve, the English concern
will become a partner in the Australian co.
For a start the local concern is to change
its name to “English Electric Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd.,” and is to increase the present


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efiiciency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
« * * *
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumino-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and
quite harmless. Used by leading Water Supply
Boards throughout Australia. Sold everywhere.
William Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [3
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work.— Advt. [3
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Letter received from
Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th February,
1919: “Re yours of the 19th instant, in regard to
pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have been
and are still in every way satisfactory, and are quite
suitable for our requirements. The cost of mainte-
nance during the six years of service has been nil. If
we were putting in any further pipe lines, your firm
would certainly be favored with our orders. (Sgd.)
S. Sontham, Secretary.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(H. 0.),, Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * »
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* # * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6036. And at Ckallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London) ; Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
# * * *
The ever-increasing wages for labor are causing
more attention to be given to mechanical appliances
for saving labor wherever possible. Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, who
maintain a special engineering department for this
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates of
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pro-
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austra-
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
• • • •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * ■»
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
♦ * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney : and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
AGENTS WANTED,
Insure in
Tke 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
GF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital . 122,000
Inoome (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established. 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
n unit MoS3.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WOS.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6
{9cL (minimum
16/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4£d.
Canada
.. 2/4
1/2
_( 7d. (minimum
(11/S, 20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
{7d. (minimum
11-/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili ami I'eru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Herniations m-iv ,he obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Ptt Street. Sydney Tel. Citv 1H46 (X lint-a).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne. Tel. ■>•>B'-
J. MII.W Mb' -or ■■
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. '
Try
0
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne —Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
nominal capital of £250,000 to £600.000.
100,000 of the new £350,000 £1 shares to b«
“A” ordinaries. These “A” shares are to
he passed over as fully-paid in one block to
the co. for all the rights and privi-
leges which will accrue to the Australian con-
cern as a result of the linking-up. Say the
directors: —■
At first sight the terms may seem very one-sided,
and the price paid for the assistance of the English
co. a very high one; but your directors have given
the matter the fullest possible consideration, and
believe that not only is the deal a wise one, but
that if we are to carry out our manufacturing
policy it is absolutely necessary.
The English Electric has also the option,
for three years, over a further 100,000
shares at a premium of 55., which, if exer-
cised, will put £25,000 into the local co.’s
reserves, this being to some extent a set-off
against the English concern’s participation
in its surplus assets in the event of liquida-
tion. If shareholders agree the new arrange-
ment will be effected after the co.’s current
year has closed on March 31 next.
* * * *
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co., the 19-
year-old offshoot of S. Aus.’s big Elder
Smith concern, is growing so rapidly that
the directors have decided to double the mud
capital by putting out a further 100,000
shares paid to 4s. each. Shareholders have
the right to take up one new share at par
for every old one held. At the last balance,
after only nine years in business, nearly 3-J
millions of trusts had rolled in upon the
management, and 10 p.c. divs. were being
earned with ease. The new issue will prob-
ably not be made until the current financial
year’s accounts are closed on March 31.
* * * *
One of the first prospectuses to appear
since Treasury control was relaxed is that
of the Atlas Portland Cement and Coal Co.,
Ltd., for the advent of which the success of
the Kandos lime and cement enterprise is ap-
parently responsible. According to the pros-
pectus the Atlas crowd, which includes en-
gineer Henry Chinn, of East-West railway
fame, has the rights to 4400 acres near Ben
Bullen, on the AVallerawang-Mudgee(N.S.W.)
railway, and a co. of £300.000 in £1 shares
is proposed. At present only 230,000 shares
are to be issued, but no less than 80,000 of
these, together with £lO,OOO in cash, are to
go to vendors in consideration “for the valu-
able limestone, coal and shale properties.”
But those 80,000 shares and £lO,OOO, it ap-
pears on further investigation, don’t acquire
the “valuable properties.” It seems that the
vendors hold only options over the freeholds,
and that the purchase consideration is not
for the properties but merely for the options.
Yet even if the vendors owned the freeholds
the question to determine is whether the
price is a fair one taking into account that
apparently no development work has been
done, though “coal has been proved prac-
tically all over the area secured, and the
seams are probably the same as those worked
by the two existing cement cos.,” and “what
may be characterised as one of the finest
limestone deposits yet found in the State is
held,” and, further, “clay shale beds of un-
limited quantity have been exposed.” Seem-
ingly the sale includes options over 1700
acres of freehold, and The Bulletin under-
stands that something like £4OOO will have
to be spent by the co. to secure ownership
of these properties. Assuming that the public
subscribes the £150,000, at the very outside
only £135,000 will be available to open up
the coal, shale and limestone deposits, erect
works, provide transport facilities, power*,
etc., and meet exes, until production com-
mences. Perhaps the properties are so valu-
able and the business so profitable that
£135,000 invested in plant, etc., can feed a
paid capital of £230,000 with good divs.;
but vendors who demand so large a share
and cash consideration for a pronosition of
this nature do not invite a rush of investors.
The 150.000 shares offered to the public are
to carry 6 p.c. cumulative, and are to share
point for point with the vendors’ shares
after the latter have also had 6 p.c.
* * * #
The gospel of an old banker:—
The capital resources of the cheque-paying banks
in the Commonwealth amount to £20,000,000 and
they hold deposits for about £300,000,000. This
latter is the public surplus with which the banks
work to earn dividends. In the United States this
public surplus is used for the aggrandisement of the
big money-bugs and for their personal profit. The
New York banks form a combine or trust, and the
chief hoards of directors are interlocked. By con-
trolling the savings of the people and the funds of
the great life-assurance societies, these New York
bankers exercise extraordinary power. Fortunately
for Australia there never has been here any similar
combination of bankers to acquire control of the
public surplus consisting of the savings and the
money of aU the people. And, thanks to the growing
influence of the Commonwealth Bank, no group of
unscrupulous men ever can gain fuU, unchecked use
of the public’s money in the way American banks
have gained it.
Savings banks in the United States are private,
and not Government concerns as they ought to be. Ten
men may get together in any Yankee town and form
a “National Bank” with a capital of £20.000,
advertise as a Savings Bank and get money on deposit
at 3 and 4 p.c., which they lend out at 7 and 8 p.c.
for the profit of the president and his directors.
That is a misuse of the public surplus, which shov’d
only be handled by the Government and the very
highest sa.e rate of interest paid to the depositors.
Here in Victoria we have a Credit Foneier system
run by the Savings Bank Commissioners for the
benefit of farmers and squatters at the expense of
the depositors. The late George Turner in passing tne
Credit Fonder Act did a great harm and was guilty
of serious injustice in reducing the rate of into rest
paid by the Victorian Sa.ings Banks, both I’ost
Office and Trustee, from 4 p c. to 24 p.c. per annum
in order to lend money to farmers and squatters at
4i p.c. and 5 p.c. It was wrong to take the interest
from the very poor and give it to the very rich. For
those on the .and in Victoria are the rich of that
State. Every daily paper in Melbourne proves that
by its paragraphs relating to wills and probates.
Not one word need be said against the Credit
Foneier principle or its management. But it was
positively wrong to cut down the interest payments
on the Savings Bank deposits of the peopie to lend
cheap money to the section of the community that
lives and lives well on the land.
Owing to the unjust representation of the farmers
in the Victorian Parliament McPherson and Mac-
kinnon have announced the Cabinet’s intention to
create a State Agricultural Bank to make advances
to farmers and graziers. It is to be run on the lines
of the Savings Bank, and of course will utilise the
people’s sa\ ings to make money cheap for the cookies.
Another peasants’ bank is not needed in Victoria,
because the joint-stock and Commonwealth Banks
devote themselves chiefly to lending money on land.
The growth of German manufacturing and industry
generally was largely due to the custom of lending
money to new enterprises started to make something.
Generally the bank or the German Government had
a director or two on the board of the new trading
company, and always had an auditor on the premises.
But what Australian bank would advance money
to, say, a shipbuilding company? Vet shipbuilding
lias been proved to be as safe and profitable as ship-
owning.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound has let quite a lot of
good thiugs sl)» from uuder its nose, but
during the past two years the directors have
bestirred themselves, and 30 props, have
passed through the Board room, though with-
out a single accept. Last week, however,
just about when the last yard of the old
Compound ground was being towed into the
dredge, the news got around that something
good had been sighted. Whereunon a rush
set in to acquire scrip, and the shares
climbed from 11s. 9d. to 3.95. 3d. within a
few davs. The flutter had commenced days
before shareholders heard from their direc-
tors, and some hard things have been said.
Tne Board declares that the first intima-
tion it had was on the Saturday morning,
but even so the Stock Exchange received
no official word until late on the Monday,
after directors had come together to dis-
cuss the good news. Apparently others had
got ahead of the co.’s cable, but who they
were and how they got the information is
known only to themselves and the brokers
who handled the commissions. It appears
that A. C. McLeod has bored 114 of the
1000 acres acquired from the F.M. Govern-
ment, and that an average of 19oz. has been
got. Further, that W. Bethune, on a new
Siamese option of 30 acres, has put down
30 bores giving an average of lBoz. The
latter information was apparently squeezed
from the directors, for they do not regard
the results as of much value, and remark
that their “invariable policy has been never
to publish inconclusive reports of boring
tests,” as their experience has been
that the values from a small inumber of
bores are “nearly always unreliable.” How-
ever, it looks as though the Compound has
at last got hold of something worth while in
the F.M.S., with prospects of further
Siamese sweetenings. So the concern at
last seems assured of a prolongation of life.
* « '• »
Badaks shot from £l7O to £1125 without
check. Then, as no flow of bull juice in
the form of wires confirming other bores by
Orton came to hand, some holders got un-
easy and floated off a few shares. Jeneri,
where Orton is domiciled, is 100 miles north
of Penang, and as his pegs are in jungle and
swamp no doubt check-borer Wilson, who is
new to Malayan troubles, cannot proceed
rapidly. Of course, the promoting crowd
could not let Badaks win out alone. Hence
the Venture Syndicate was got off, mostly
among brokers, in 200 shares of £lO each.
Also, in George Dickenson’s rooms a home
was found for the Jeneri. As usual, Dicken-
son was slick, for he had the call on one
Wm. Grey, at Penang, awaiting orders to
set sail for Badak. The Venture has in
view, as its apostle, John Northey, who
years back did his bit at the Briseis Ex-
tended, and later on went up to ravel out
the Lode Hill tin deposit. Seeing that
Badak has taken up 5000 acres, there is no
certainty that the local authorities will
allow all and sundry to peg out more land.
The other float of interest to date is the
Badak Jungle, put off in Bendigo, where it
is asserted that over 60 out of the 400
Badaks have a home. The Jungle has some-
thing to show in an area of 1000 acres, said
to be contiguous to the Badak concession.
W r . Wilson, the borer who is checking up
the Badak. is nominated to test the Jungle.
This Bendigo syndicate has a register of
1000 shares of £25. Of that total 350 paid-
uus so to vendors and 650 are issued at £5,
giving a cash capital of £3250. The day
after the float this scrip was punted to £BO
in a few hours. Amid all this fluttering,
the question crops up why it is that the
Stock Exchange allows the gamble in shares
of cos. that have no assets at all except
tue cash put up by the ong.nals. Some
nobs are sa.d to have got out of nearly
every scare taken up by them in the Badak
float, leaving the buyer to nurse the baby
whenever it may turn up on h,s doorstep.
Ilampon Uruguay, Ltd., which owns
Block 48, Hampton Plains, on which the
White Hope is situated, is in course of re-
construction. Offers of assistance are said
to have been made by a well-known group
of financiers, and the’ co. is expected to be
able before lor.g to wipe off its debt and
have capital in hand to do some mining on
its own account. There are quite a dozen
option-hunters anxious to get hold of some
of the co.’s reserved blocks, particularly
those north and south of the White Hope;
but owing to tlie unsettled state of the co.’s
finances all offers to date have been re-
fused.
* * * *
Coolgardie continues to disappear off the
landscape. During the last few years por-
tions of the town have been dismantled and
carted to Kalgoorlie, while a lot of galvan-
ised-iron and interior fittings have been
railed to Perth and auctioned. Now Kal-
goorlie is showing frayed edges. Little gold
is being won from the north end of the field,
next to nothing from the middle section, and
production from the south end, or Golden
Mile, is shrinking. Boulder Perseverance
has just been put up for sale by tender;
Associated is in a precarious state; Associ-
ated Northern, North Kalgurli and Oroya
Links are being kept alive by tributors;
Lake View and South Kalgurli are strug-
gling; Ivnnhoe is still in the grip of por-
phyry at depth and never likely to get free;
Kalgurli’s life is uncertain ; and Gt. Boulder,
with its lode in the possession of the Golden
Horseshoe, has only a few years to live. The
Horseshoe is the best off of the lot, and will
probably be working its patchy shoots when
the others are dead.
* * * #.
Kalgoorlie is giving the “open call” another
trial. There were two each night at one
time, and in both big business was done.
The attendance was rarely below 500, and
often 3000, and on one particular boom
night £7OO was cleaned up in commissions.
With the demise of the shypoo mines, in
which most of the trading was done, pub-
lic interest lessened, and finally for want of
custom both calls ceased. Au unsuccessful
attempt was made to revive them when
Westonia was at its prime, but with the
advent of Hampton Plains and its retinue
of wild cats the present attempt seems to
have more promise of success. Of course
it won’t be a permanency.
* * * •
Tom Duff, M.L.A., has taken charge of
the Consolidated at Westonia, and is con-
ferring with the Board on matters of policy,
including shaft-sinking on the east block.
Meantime the Central co. has secured a
tribute from its boundary at the 300 ft. level,
and other tributes have been, or are about
to be, let to the Golden Point and others in
other parts of the mine.
* * * #
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.) has wound
up another year with only a few pounds in
hand. Altogether 19 levels have been opened
up in as many years, and hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds have been expended on plant,
development, etc., and in wages. Share-
holders, however, have received very little,
and what with increased costs aud shrink-
ing ore reserves they are not likely to get
much in future. ' The manager has had
an eye on Hampton Plains on behalf of the
co., but,- like many more, he has failed to
sight anything worth while.
* * * *
Only 28 mining cos. were registered in
Victoria in 1919 —but one more than in
1918. Trading cos. registered were 236
in 1914, 240 in 1915, 123 in 1916, 154 in
1917, 166 in 1918, and 253 in 1919. These
figures are pitiable because they indicate lack
of enterprise, especially in mining. If Vic-
toria’s reliance upon foreigners for made-
up goods and food commodities is to be
destroyed, then many more joint-stock cos.
must be formed, and it is a first duty of
the banks and the Government to help on
the movement.
“Quarry Hill” surveys the graveyard :
In November, 1871, there were 1310 regis-
tered cos. in Bendigo valued by a chronicler
of the day at £10,000,000. The gold yield
for 1871 was 270,9850 z., worth £1,083,940. The
number of gold-bearing reefs was officially stated
to be 707, and the number of miles of auriferous
ground in actual work was 140. Dividends paid by
77 cos. in that year amounted to £366,000, and
calls to £203,000. The greatest depth at which
quartz was vyon was 720 ft., in the Collmann and
Tacchi mine, and the others were seldom deeper
than 350 ft. to 400 ft. Now there is one shaft in
Bendigo 4614 ft. deep. Does it not seem to suggest
that the deep-sinking craze broke the back of Ben-
digo’s prosperity? Would it not have been far
better to have developed the side-lines at shallow
levels instead of pushing down pipe-stem shafts to
3000 ft. and 4000 ft. at terrific cost? Has the virgin
country between the Garden Gully and the Hustlers
reel's ever been properly prospected? And will it
be? The average yield of gold per ton in 1871 was
nearly 17dwt. from 25 leading cos., won from free-
milling quartz as indicated by the small quantity
of 427 tons of pyrites treated by these cos. The
famous yields from the Carshalton line, 2500 z. from
one ton of quartz, drawn from 100 ft. ; from the
Golden Fleece, 3oz. to the ton from a 13ft. reef
at 350 ft. down; from the Glasgow, which crushed
40oz. to the ton; and the magnificent yields from
the G. G. Consolidated mine above 250 ft., were taken
as quite ordinary. The tale of the Whipstick and its
fabulous lumps of gold reads like an account of
Atlantis or Pizarro s plunder from the Incas of
Guzco in Peru. And the history of Raywood remains
to be created and written, for as sure as death the
Bendigo anticlinal reefs, which have disappeared
below the tertiary plains to the north, will one day
be found by boring.


TRYING IT ON.
“Japan has increased her Army and Navy Estimates, and is entering upon a huge navy-building programme.”—Cable.


4
M
*#A
V’r;*-
soi
" *. :
do Keen Jit the/mst i
isafljaily Qamof
Ban
fTheJLAGER
Without a RiVal
&
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
business, the Theatre and Church.
Tt is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, ard is in everv resnect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most sciertifle instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you orr FREE TRIAL
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO.,
12 Bernard's. Building, 387 George St., Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ite ms-
splendid ORCHESTRA.
CHARHINQ ROOF GARDEN.
E. T. CHKESEMAU.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
February birthdays: A. Barton Brady
(Q.), 64, on Ist; Prof. Warren (Syd.),
68, Cecil It. P. Andrews (W.A.), 50, and
Lieut.-Col. J. P. Clark, D.S.O. (Speck), 42,
on 2nd; Geo. Swinburne (Melb.), 59, on
3rd; Dr. G. E. ("Chinese”) Morrison, 58.
General Godley, command,ng M.L. forces in
the war, 53, and biologist W. B. Alexander
'A. A.,, 35 on 4th; S. Aus. Senator Senior,
70, and Brig.-Gen. Forsyth, 53, on 9th;
Colonel James Burns, M.L.0., i 4: F<h].-.
Solicitor R. R. Garran, 53, and W. Pember
Reeves (formerly M.L.), 63, on 10th:
Archgaiters Donaldson (Brisbane), 57, J.
M. Chanter, M.H.R. for Itiverina, 75. and
F. W. Bamford, M.H.R., 71, on 11th;
Edward H. Wittenoom (W.A.), 66, ex-N.S.W.
Senator A. J. Gould, 73, Prof. Garslaw
(Sydney Uni.), 50, Prof. Ewart (Melb.),
48. and Brig.-Gen. Chas. Rosenthal, 45, on
12th: Archb'shop Kelly, 70, on 13th; Albert
Ilinchcliffe (Australian Worker), 60, and
Edward Lucas (S. A. Agent-Gen.), 63. on
14th; “Banjo” Paterson, 56, and Bishop
Shiel (Rockhampton), 47, on 17th; Lieut. -
Col. Wanliss, 56, on 20th; ex-Speaker
Larry O’Loughlin (S.A.), 66, on 21st;
Norman Lindsay, 41, and Tom Gill (Under-
Treas., S.A.), 71, on 23rd; G. F. H. Schuler
(Age), 67, and H. W. Apperly (A.M.P..
Sydney), 59. on 24th; Staniforth Smith. 51.
and Pietro Baracchi (Melb.), 69, on 25th;
H. N. Barwell (S.A. Attorney-General), 43,
on 26th; Dr. James W. Barrett (Melb.), 58,
on 27th.
The groan of a State Gallery man:—
While Arthur Robinson, Vic. Solicitor-General, is
in London interviewing Cohen and deciding whether
or no he will accept a K. 8., it’s to be hoped he
will take the opportunity to have a few lessons in
dialectics. Robinson is the driest, prosiest speaker
in our Parliament. He gives the impression of hav-
ing had a little tuition in public-speaking from a lady
elocution -teacher.
Each syllable comes
slowly from a mouth
painstakingly roundel
for its emission. No
fire, no crashing
periods, no pictur-
esque simile or meta-
phor—just a dull,
muddy stream. Bad
enough, this; but
the really dreadful
thing a'out Robin-
son is that he loves
to do it, and there-
fore does it early and
often —particularly at
functions outside Par-
liament where people
are too polite to shut
him up with loud
groans.
THOS.
SAMMONS,
the new Consul-
General for the
United States.
Lieut.-Col. Douglas Marks. D. 5.0., M.C..
etc., sometime of the 13th Battalion, had
a glittering career. He landed on Gallipoli
as a subaltern. From then onwards he rose
steadily in rank by the simple good fortune
of remaining 'alive. When he took over
the 13th he was one of the three or four
youngest men who had permanently held
such a position in the history of the Bri-
tish Empire. He had as his second-in-com-
mand in Belgium and in France in 1918 the
incomparable Murray, and it says a lot for
the competence of Marks that officers and
men alike considered that he was the man
for the job. (It is unnecessary, perhaps, to
remark that Murray was absolutely sure
of it.) Marks was not a genius as a leader
in action, as men like Murray and Jacka
were, but he was almost as, good out of the
line as Murray was in it. He died on Sun-
day as he had lived. A strange young
woman got into the undertow at Palm
Beach (N.S.W.). Marks went after her
with a clothes-line, the only life-saving
apparatus available. The line broke and
they were both drowned. He had crowded
it all into 25 years.
Captain F. Anthony, one of the toughest
of Port Phillip p.lois, who passed out last
week, was characteristically blunt with
Baionet Way when he fussed and fumed
over a delay that was occurring in the berth-
ing of a steamer on which he was a pas-
senger. When Anthony cut him short.
’S’onor said with dignity; “I ani the Chief
Justice of South Australia.” Anthony
looked him over and replied: “I’m not
responsible for that!”
Sam Copley, who has been startling Eng-
land with enormous financial deals, came to
Austral'a over 30 years ago. Born at Berry
Brow, he worked at his father’s trade as a
hairdresser in England.
Having saved about
£4OO he decided to try
his luck in Australia,
but lost his capital in
his first ventures, and
had to fall back again
on barbering for a
crust. Later on his
luck turned, and suc-
cessful speculations
and the large thirst of
the Australian for a
gamble got him well
started on the road to
millions. lie went to
England shortly after
the war-gong clanged,
nominally as the man-
aging director of a
new insurance co., and
plunged in marine un-
derwriting with enor-
mous success. Until
the other day some of
the rest of the fam’ly
was still running the
little barber’s shop in
England.
HUGE MAHON, who
has returned to politics
as M.E.R. for Kal-
goorlie.
Despite newspaper tips that Legge, now
Chief of the General Staff, will be the first
chairman of the Air Board, his job is much
more likely to be commandant at Duntroon.
The birdmen objected to an officer, no mat-
ter what his ability, who had no actual
flying experience, being placed over them,
and they have won the day. C. B. B. White
will be Chief of Staff, and his pre-war job of
Director of Military Operations will fall to
Blarney, who succeeded him as Monash’s
chief of staff. Blarney, in addition to dis-
tinguished service at the Front, has been
through the Quetta (India) Staff College,
and had a term on Iv. of Tv.’s staff. He is
a N. S. Wales back-blocker, and all the
better for it.
Colonel Archibald WeigalJ, M.P., S. Aus-
tralia’s new Governor, is a member of a
family well known in Sydney. His father,
Henry Weigall. the art.st, was a brother
of the late headmaster of Sydney Grammar.
Henry married in 1866 Lady Rose Fane,
only daughter of the Earl of Westmorland,
and they had a large family of boys, amongst
them G.J., the cricketer. Archie Weigall,
the fourth son, managed the Westmorland
estates for a while. In 1908 the Baroness
Eckhardstein —only daughter of the fabu-
lously wealthy Tottenham Court-road furni-
ture man, Blundell-Maple—divorced her
Boelie husband on half a dozen good and
sufficient grounds; and some time later she
mairied the tall, good-looking and socially
popular young man who is her present hus-
band. He was returned to Parliament for
a Lincolnshire constituency in 1911. and
has done good service on various boards —
chiefly relating to agriculture, on which sub-
ject he is an expert. He is a keen horse-
man and cricketer, and has been soldiering
off and on since he w r as 20.
The Speck’s Governor Newdegate is mov-
ing on to the usual second stopping-place in
the circuit, and his shingle will flutter from
the masthead at Swan River before the
summer flies. His place in Tas. is to be
taken by Fiji’s old friend Bill Allardyce,
lately Governor of the Bahamas and long
ago a fairly capable cricketer in the land
o’ kilts. There are growls in the Speck
over the alleged fact that Premier Lee’s
“slimness” in announcing the last two Gov-
ernors while Parliament was in recess has
squashed threatened comment on the whole
question of {Mate Governors. It appears
tuat the harassed Lee, anxious to close the
sess.on and get away from his tormentors on
tne front Opposition benches, made some sort
of a promise in 1916 that no change would
be made at Government House without Par-
Lament being given -the opportunity of offer-
ing a few remarks on the subject. But
within a, month of the adjournment Macart-
ney was succeeded by Newdegate. Some-
thing similar has occurred this year, Newde-
gate’s- abd.cation in favor of Allardyce
having been undreamed of when Parliament
shut up just before Christmas.
Melbourne Club has scored again. Stewart
McArthur, who has been raised to the Su-
preme Court Bench (£2500 a year), and G.
J. Detlir.dge, who has been made a County
Court Judge, are both members. Both have
high quaLfications. but are not young men,
McArthur being 58 and Dethridge 56.
Tasmanian Governor Newdegate is the
fourth to leave the Speck before his term of
office has expired to take a similar job in
Perth at a larger salary. Strickland, Bar-
ron and Ellison-Macartney each went that
way. The popular Newdegate has certainly
done one th ; ng for the Speck—he has given
real Art a lift there.
Died at Hardwicke, Yass (N.S.W.),
January 18. H. R. F. Hume, son of that
Ham lton Hume, of Parramatta, who ex-
plored more of the country between Sydney
and Melbourne man any other man.
Aileen Ingleby, who, the other day, ap-
peared to conduct a case in the Adelaide
Police Court, is the first woman in S. Aus.
to come before that bench as a paid pleader.
Lawyers run in the Ingleby family. Aileen’s
dad has been at the Bar for many years, and
grandpa was a popular K.C.
William Isb.ster, of North Adelaide, lived
to be 90. Born in Glasgow, he arrived in
S. Aus. when lie was 26, and presently helped
to send an order back to the Clyde for the
steamer Admella, which year after year
maintained the passenger service between
Adelaide and Melbourne—his brother-in-law,
Hugh Mac Ewan, was captain. When he re-
tired from the shipping business in the
.’seventies it was to potter about with various
charitable societies and watch the progress
of his two sons—W. J. Isb'ster, K.C., of
Adela'de: and Dr. “Jimmy” of Sydney.
David Ernest Hutchins, of Wellington
(M.L.), who has been knighted for his ser-
vices to forestry within the Empire, was
passed over by the Vic. Government for the
job of chairman of the Forests Commission
because he is over 60. Ministers hesitated
greatly before setting him as'de and giving
the post to Owen Jones, who is only 32.
“Jimmy” Allen, Minister for Defence in
Maoriland, is the father of the Reps, since
the defeat of Ward and Carroll. With them
he had been elected to ten Parliaments, and
had nagged—he was a great nagger,
especially during the long, lean years in
Opposition—throughout 38 sessions. Allen
is 62, and is almost certain to be Maori-
land’s next High Commissioner in London.
The name of Ross Smith figured in an
honorable mention from London the other
day. When the advance on Jerusalem was
held up by inaccurate maps of the hilly
country, Ross Smith and Lieut. Austin went
up with orders to take photographs of 37
square miles of country for map purposes.
From the photographs they took in one day.
other Australians made a new map in one
n’ght; and in five days, working on the new
chart, Jerusalem was taken. The incident
was quoted before one of London’s learned
soe’et'es as an example of the quick work
which helped to win the war.
South Australia’s old hard-case squatter,
R. J. M. Mcßride, of Burra, arrived at his 89th
milepost on January 18. Born at Newry, in
the North of lie Lind, the son of an officer
of the Army, he had seven years’ seafaring,
and then went to Bendigo. In ’55 he crossed
to Adelaide with nothing but a tough con-
stitution, humped Matilda to the Burra
mines, and after four years’ toil there started
out as a squatter by securing a little pL>t
of 200 square miles adjoining the Govern-
ment Well on North-west Bend station. He
named this The Gums. Later purchases
include Pine Valley, Drayton, Outalpa and
Oulnina ; and either he or his sons control
a dozen other stations, mostly in the nor’-
east of S. Aus. Like many another old
sailor he made a superb horseman, and even
now enjovs hnnd’ing the reins behind some-
thing with a kick in it.
There will be five Generals in the new
Federal Parliament—Ryr’e in the Reps.:
Cox. Elliott. Glasgow and Drake-Brockman
in the Senate. All the States except Tas-
mania and S. Aus, are represented in the
list.
If Lt.-Col. G. J. Bell had not come home
from the S. African War on i transport
which called at Hobart he might still have
been earning an honest living instead of
going to Parliament as the representative of
Darwin iTas.). On his first visit he liked
the Apple State so well that he became a
farmer on the North-West Coast, and only
interrupted the hobby when he went to the
wars with the Light Horse.
A padre very nearly scored the presidency
of. the S. Aus. Returned Soldiers’ League
tMs vear. Teece. n son of Richard, long the
manager of the A.M.P., was beaten by lawyer
P-kbuin, V.C., by only 138 in a poll of over
Tne death of Richard Cockburn Mac-
laurin, at Boston
(U.S.A.), removes
a famous scholar
to whom Maoriland
owed a lot. He was
born in Scotland,
but had the founda-
tions of his life-
work laid in Auck-
land. After most
brilliant successes
there and at Cam-
bridge and Stras-
burg, he was
brought back to
M.L. as professor
of mathematics at
Victoria College,
Wellington, i n
1899. From there
he passed to the
chair of physics
in Columbia.
University (U.S.A.)
and was merely 50
when his brilliant
star set.
DR. JAMES.
BARRETT, of
Melbourne, who did
great work for the
A.I.F. in Egypt.
Harry Friend, formerly of Sydney, has
resumed liis job as chief of Federal Han-
sard. Frazer Lumsden, deputy-leader, was
in charge while Friend was away in England
on leave. Lumsden, who is a Scotsman and
63, is the author of two novels published
in London same time ago.
Capt. A. V. Galbraith, senior clerk of the
Country Roads Hoard, who served in the
war with the A.S.C., gets the job of secre-
tary ro the Vic. Forest Commissioners. This
was the post that Paterson, of Ballarat, had
allotted to him and then had taken from
him because he was not a Billjim. Paterson,
who threw up his old job to go to the
Foresters, is now accountant to a trustee co
in Ballarat.
Another learned Jew, I. H. Boas, son of
the ex-Rabbi in Adelaide, has arrived back
Australia after a tour of Europe and
America Boas was lecturer in the Perth
■technical School chemistry department, and
has specialised in timber and forest pro-
ducts. He is confident, after what he has
seen in other countries, that Australian tim-
ber would make many classes of paper not
thus far produced here.
Archb'shop Mannix begins to have doubts
whether his tall silk hat goes well with his
particular style of beauty. Lately, while
on his regular evening walk from Eastern
Hill to Kew, he. spoke to a youngster who
to eye^ng him with great interest.
“Well, sonny, know who I am?” said his
Grace. The kid made another survey of
hat and cloth and lugubrious visage. Ali
doubts disappeared. “Yes, I know yer. Yer
the bloke wot drives the ’earse for s
the undertakers.”
. Father Loekington, head of the Jesuits
in Australia, who is booked to leave on a busi-
ness trip to Rome in February, is a Maori-
lander by birth and an ardent temperance
advocate, but an anti-prohibitionist. During
the early days of the war he was billed to
give a temperance lecture at Seymour (Vic )
camp. _ There was a good roll-up, and the
boys listened attentively. The breezy priest
himself tells what happened: “I had elabo-
rated the point that the army had no use for
the physical coward, and was going on to
point out the need for moral courage. I
put the rhetorical question, ‘What do we
need more than anything else in the armv
to-day?’ A hoarse voice broke the stillness.
‘Beer’!”
“Gallery”: Barton had dined fatly, and
whs dozing comfortably in the big Club
chair when an emissary from the House
stole upon him with the news that a close
and vital division was expected and he was
needed to save the Government from defeat.
Toby awoke, blinked, and asked in blurred
language for his hat and coat; then, restor-
ing the stiffening that had temporarily de-
parted from his gait, he walked out firmly
and took the nearest hansom to the Reps.
Ten minutes later he had found the Speaker’s
eye, and was pouring out a flood of silver
and gold that changed the threatening
weather to a long and settled calm. That
night Hansard heard such English as it
hardly dares hope to hear again.
[■John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Melbourne.]
THE ROAD TO ROMANI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
(Light Horse entered Sinai, April, 1916.)
Into this Kingdom of the Lost we ride,
Over the slain men of the centuries.
Above their bones the drift of ages lies,
And, mingled all together, they abide,
Sleek Greek and forthright Roman, side by side.
But where they fared the questing jackal cries,
And, dust upon the Khamsin, mounts and flies
The Selguk Sultan’s crumbled pomp and pride.
Now, steadfast we, the Riders of the South,
Daring the deserts fenced about with fire,
Though eye be seared and blood dried up by drouth,
Press forward to the goal of our desire.
Backward we herd the harried heathen spawn,
And o’er the promised land breaks fair the dawn.
N.s.w.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


7T
tllf
/
s/
m
4
//
//
El
«»
J',
,)?
Gowing£ Bros.'
Midsummer Sale,
From January 27
To February 7.
Austral” Tailorings at Sale Prices
For Eleven Days Only
G OWING BROS.’ MIDSUMMER SALE, which will run until February
7, is the opportunity you will really welcome. “Genuine” is the word
that fits this Sale, because it offers a clear 10 per cent. —2/~ in the £
—off regular prices.
All the famous “Austral” Quality, Workmanship, Finish and Value is
present in every “Austral” Sac Suit—just the same as usual. The one point
of difference—and it is a tremendous point—is that of price. Every 18/- you
* spend buys you £1 worth of “Austral” Tailoring Value.
Every man who has worn an “Austral” Sac Suit to Measure knows
from his own satisfactory experience what excellent value he obtained. This
—at the usual price. How much better must the purchase be, then, at the
substantial saving of 2/- in the £.
Note the list of prices shown below, and you will readily appreciate the
great advantage of placing your order during the currency of the Midsummer
Sale. But, remember—Eleven Days only!
“Austral” Sac Suits to Measure.
LESS 10 PER CENT. DURING THE MIDSUMMER SALE.
Usual Prices: 95/-, 105/-, 115/-, £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-, £9/9/-, £ 10/10/-
Sale Prices: 85/6, 94/6, 103/6, £5/13/6, £6/12/3, £7/11/3, £B/10/-, £9/9/-
Country Customers send for Patterns.
Carriage Paid on all Country Orders.
484-490
George
Street
BR“ L™
{
3-17
Royal
Arcade
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
Branch Shop at 304 George Street (Near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


A COOL HEAD ON A HOT DAY!
The Panama is the ideal hat for hot weather.
In Central and Southern America, climatic con-
ditions force the selection of the COOLEST hat.
The Panama was adopted for general use. The
same South American straw is used in Peapes’
Panamas. It is sun-bleached and very fine’y
plaited. Blocked in Alpine shape, as illustrated,
and fitted with grease-proof leathers.
Brims 21 to 3 inches —flat set.
Bands: Navy, Brown or Black..
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
30/-
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
jk
ghk
gh
Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
ANT IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own REACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water —
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and front No. 4 -Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL
ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION LTD.
NOTE.—The 1918 totals cover a period
of fourteen months.
The A.P.A. Combined Benefit Policies, in
add tion to the ordinary Endowment and Life
Benefits, give Weeklv Compensation for Sickness
and Accident, also Hospital and Medical Fees.
The Association transacts all classes of per-
sonal Accident Insurance. Live representatives
may secure exceptional contracts on the A.P.A.
staff.
S. P. WOOD, Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Tala Noa”: The returned soldiers of Fiji
—mostly Fiji contingent men —are deter-
mined not to have the Hun back in the land
of rich uncles and bananas. On the arrival
of the Atua at Suva with some half-dozen
Germans on board, she was met by a body of
returned fighters. These men, with the pre-
sident of the R. S. and S. Association at
their head, told the Fritzes that if they
studied their health they would not attempt
to land. The Hun, with his usual arrogance,
scoffed at the idea, but with his usual caution
sent his luggage overboard first. Four pack-
ages of effects hit the wharf, and in an
instant three were dumped into the harbor.
The fourth, belonging to a woman, was sent
back on board with the message that civilised
beings didn’t wage war against women. The
Germans decided not to land. They were
later taken off the steamer by the Govern-
ment and conveyed to the small quarantine
island of Nukulau, in Suva Harbor, to await
a steamer back to Sydney.
* * * *
It’s the thief who uses his head that
makes the haul. The papers lately have been
full of the sweat of a gang of safe-blowers
who have put in long nights of toil and bad
language for a return of 4s. 9d. or some-
thing equally discouraging. Contrast that
crowbar work with the artistry of the Syd-
ney Savings Bank thief who saw an elderly
woman draw £lOO in two £5O notes. As she
was going out the door he whipped off his
hat, touched her on the arm, and said
politely, “Could you let me examine those
notes again, madame? I want to check the
numbers.” She allowed the spruce young
stranger without a hat to usher her into the
bank, where he showed her to a seat,, took
the notes with a bow and stepped lightly
towards the door. The story stops there, or
rather the lady does. The gentlemanly thief
goes oh. Good manners n nd elocution haven’t
had such an advertisement for years.
* * * «►
“0.L.”: Labor has definitely ranged itself
with Bolshevism in support of floggings for
political misdemeanors. The World
(Hobart) and the Labor Call (Melbourne)
both advocate this course. Of the person
who, accidentally or otherwise, altered a
word in J. K. McFoolish’s screed concerning
the soldiers of the Boer War, reprinted by
the Call in 1915 and leafleted by the
National Federation lust before the recent
election, the World urges that the unknown
miscreant “should be dug out of his hole
and publicly flogged.” The Call, endorsing
the proposal, alleges that “there are more of
them who should be publicly flogged—the
cunning scum of Melbourne w’ho hide their
identity while performing unclean and scur-
rilous acts.” Up with the triangles, then,
comrades, in the holy name of humanity and
universal Bolshihood!
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The N.S.W.
Government is bringing under the auc-
tioneer's hammer a couple of historic proper-
ties. One, known to a couple of generations
DIRECT ACTION COMES HOME.
THE WIFE : “Oh, Bill, there's a perfect love
of a hat at Robusalls for thirty bob.”
The Worker: “What's that got to do with
my dinner?”
THE WIFE ( firmly ): “No hat, no dinner.”
as the Girls’ High School, was built by
Lachlan Macquarie, Governor, “solely for
the education of the poor.” The foundation-
stone was laid on March 20, 1820, just one
hundred years ago. The building, though it
got back more or less to its original use,
has been devoted to many purposes. There
Chief Justice Forbes held his first court in
1824, when the Charter of Justice was read
and the proclamation made. There also
Father J. J. Therry celebrated mass while
St. Mary’s was being built. For many years
it was known as St. James’s Infant School.
In the earlv Macquarie era the site was
occupied by the Rose and Crown Inn and
bakery. The Governor gave in exchange for
it an area of land at Appin. The other
historic property is Ormonde House, at
Paddington. This was commenced in 1824
by Robert Cooper, of the Brisbane Distillerv,
Parramatta-street, who named it Juniper
THEY MERELY TOOK THE BAIT.
“I'm afraid we've been backbiting her.”
“Well, doesn't she challenge it?"
Hall. The Coopers occupied it up to the
’sixties; then one of the Blaxlands had it.
From 1868 to 1872 it was the Institution
for the Deaf and Dumb: then the Govern-
ment employed it for various purposes,
mainly in connection with deserted children
and as a shelter for girls.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos Cold and the
coming Prince of Wales (B.
22/l/’2O). A “free banquet” was
given in a Melbourne suburban
park during the visit of the Duke
of Edinburgh in 1868. The wine-
growers, who were then struggling
for a market, sent a hogshead of
wine gratis. The Duke was to
have been at the banquet to drink
the first tankard drawn, but he
did not turn up. A huge crowd —
men, women and children —got
tired of waiting, and rushed every-
thing. The taps were turned on,
and thirsty souls wallowed in
liquor. It became so like an orgy
that the respectables cleared out,
and then matters got w-orse. The
committee, of which £ £ Smith wms
chairman, laid all the blame on the
Duke for not keeping his appoint-
ment. Either Sarah Saqui or the
Melbourne Club proved more at-
tractive. Later in the day he
remembered the engagement and
hurried to the scene. Police-
inspector Hare stopped him en
route, and told him that at that
hour it would be just as well if
he continued to make himself scarce. Which
he did.
Almost a match has been found at last
for that dreadful death which a bushman
suffered a few years ago when, standing on
the back of his horse to reach into a hole
in a tree which contained a bees’ nest, he
was left swinging by the wrist. The new
horror occurred at Deception Bay (Q.).
The man, a stranger to those parts,
attempted to walk across the treacherous
sand flats, became bogged and, caught fast
in the trap, watched the tide rise until the
last merciful ripple covered his nostrils and
ended the tragedy.
* * * *
“Palotta”: “Artist” (B. 22/l/’2O) blames
Bernard Hall for all that is obviously wrong
with the Melbourne National Gallery Art
School, and urges that a younger man be
appointed. Very likely Hall is not most
affable in controlling the young students;
but can he teach? —that is the question. If
he can, the fact that he may not be affable
doesn’t matter. If he cannot, then the next
question is, “Who is capable of giving him a
hint to make way for one who can?” The
students do not think much of the ability of
the trustees. Does anyone know who they
are? Does anyone know why they were
chosen? It may be very shocking to make
inquiries; but the training of our artists
shouldn’t produce these complaints and out-
cries. ,
* * * *
“Norbell” : The supposition of “Hamfaf’
(B. 15/l/’2O) that if he were to try to earn
a crust by spouting Shakspeare in the streets
he would bring up in the Reception House,
while the discordant din made by an imcom-
petent second-trombone would be respected
as Art, is well founded. A few years ag«>
a freak arrived in Perth with a full
dramatic co., and opened at His Majesty’s.
The season was short but severe. Angry
publicans and other enraged creditors were
the only audience to materialise after the
first night or two, and the rest was silence!
Two or three days later I saw the dauntless
actor-manager with his wealth of Sam-
sonian locks flung in the breeze on Cottesloe
Beach. He was reciting Shakspeare, while
his sad-faced leading lady went round with
the hat; and the large policeman on duty
FORESTALLED.
“Note, Willie, let's be frank with each other.
What must I give you so that yon will
leave me alone with your sister this
evening ?”
“Nothin' doin'! You see, sis has already pro-
mised to take me to the Zoo to-morrow
if I hang around!”
was consulting my friend, a local doctor, as
to whether he thought the Law ought to
“run the poor loony blanker in!”
(Continued on page 18.)
PRESS-AGENCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The perjuring press-agent panders daily unto fraud;
He’s the priest of all pretension, and he lies at home,
abroad;
And Science, prostituted, scatters for him, far and
wide,
The lies he belches daily, to blow hot-air into pride.
The first press-agent called on Madam Eve in
Paradise;
W hile Adam grew bananas Eve was opening wide
her eyes,
And listening to the tempter saying frocks of fig-
leaves were
To be the rage this season, and would look just
right on her.
And he wrote of her a paragraph in the Euphrates
Age
That her dress of georgette fig-leaf was in Eden all
the rage;
And the landlord came evicting and from Eden
Adam sent;
For Eve by that press-agent was induced to “blow
the rent!”
And in the Ararat Gazette he of Noah’s vineyard
told,
And of “our well-known townsman” who had left
his job of old —
Had left the water for the wine, and brought ashore
his trunk ;
But the liar never once remarked on Noah’s gorgeous
drunk.
And the dull Ahasuerus, whom his leman, Esther,
ruled,
By the Shushan town press-agent he was gulled,
deceived and fooled ;
And he hanged the patriot Haman whom mean Mor-
decai feared,
And all the fools applauded while the town press-
agent leered.
Press-agents of the circus give no cause for strife or
hate,
They lie about the lions, and the snakes exaggerate;
Not much harm is done by piffiers of the stage, in
play or song —
Forgotten is the burglary that burgled Hilda Spong.
But the perjuring press-agents who intelligence
abuse—
The fuglemen for little mayors, and quilpish Billy
Hughes—
They are liars in the blood and bone and false in
everything,
And they pull the lie-stop open wide to boost a
little king.
They tell how little kinglets thrilled a fatted
audience,
Who were proud and so astonished (being doped of
every sense)
That a stickful of long primer, talked staccato and
in jerks,
Sends a million into raptures when the fool press-
agent works.
And they say that Queen Victoria gained the
people’s confidence
(Though she loved the dear old Prussian) by her
holy influence;
That her mem’ry shall be deathless the people’s
great heart craves—
And Flanders’ rains are falling on the young Aus-
tralians’ graves!
And Albert, the good German, was her consort and
her lord—
That’s a good thing to remember when the flattery
is poured—
That “dear Albert” strengthened Prussia (but don’t
think of that to-day,
Though sixty thousand men of ours are one with
Flanders clay).
And so, throughout the ages, the press-agents raved
and lied,
Though the boobs they lied for mostly cursed them
roundly ere they died:
’Twas Tigellinus made the way of Nero to the tomb ;
’Twas Nero’s suave press-agent who stage-managed
Nero’s doom.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Bringing ‘iTanKind
<5 ‘Together |
6*B
'M
-v,
111
it, 1
t
;
:!K
K-
I . I . 1
V
It'
Ys.
c
It.'
c
I «•
it.'
ii',
'I 1 !;! Y.
iiiiii
>
>
>
1 ■' y.
i:;i £
s
£
>
£
it'
"i
£
it*
>
1 !. X-
i: I £
>
■
>
>
>
>
" ■
I
;s
it.'
>
7 y
> /
VJt
Y:
&
V
I
• . **
:i !;i
. ' " !. •
,’i'i ' ~ 'i, i
:i ii:i:i:
::iii:iiii:i
iiiiij:i:i:iii
i'i i • Mi '
m
m
3> N
11.'
ii
ii
%
LVff: i;
j',
It*
Hunt
» ! H
'*YWs
Vik
ft (
k?
n sfy..r-«,aA'«;
w
i,
tii
sum
i
IB
f, V
z
■-' ■ 1 : 1 ■' ■ ■' l ■ * ‘ < i ♦ i *i! ■:' ■ j ■ ■ '.j,' tijuiu
y
Cr
1 , i!i!« I , i L'l'ilt!'!' ',!.!■>!
I I.','
1,1 1
I t I.Vi
i ','
Perfection in
Tone— •
Production!
T'HE AEOLIAN VOCALION
is so scientifically constructed that every
note it plays is not only beautiful in tone
quality but also true to the distinctive character
of every instrument and voice it reproduces.
It is free from all foreign noise and stridency.
Musical notes produced by voice or instru-
ment are really a composite of a number ol
tones. These are known as “partials.” For
instance, a tone from a violin may contain
12 partials consisting of a “fundamental” and
11 overtones, and so forth with other instru-
ments and the human voice.
No matter what the tonal waves are, the
intricate and sensitive mechanism of the
Vocation is so perfect, it is capable of exqui-
sitely expressing the minutest sounds and
swelling volumes of melody.
Yet the superiority in tone is but one o
the many exclusive Vocalion advantage;
which include the ingenius “Graduola” tone
controller
Vocations are Priced from £9 to £BO
SEND FOK BEAUTIFUL CATALOG
The Pianola Co.
Pty Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney


Become a
Qualified Accountant
Our splendid course of lessons nnd expert coaching service will make
jou a competent accountant rapidly yet thoroughly, and at small
oxppnsc.
Qualification is essential to success in the business world. No good
position can bo yours if you remain unqualified.
Write or call for “GUIDE TO ACCOUNTANCY.”
80 pages valuable advice and information Free without any
obligation.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
528-530 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
London Bank Chambers, corner Pitt and Moore Streets, Sydney
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1897.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Fittnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Copabella”: A remote part of the hill
country op the south coast of V T ic. has pro-
vided a little sermon on the question of sex-
instruction and that great camouflage, mock-
modesty. The rather battered body of a
newly-born child was found in a paddock,
and police search found a mother for it in
a 16-year-old girl. She owned to retiring
to the paddock at 4 a.m. and there giving
birth, acting as her own accoucheuse with a
lair amount of success for herself, if not for
the child, which she alleged was born dead.
"\\ by. she knows more about herself than
I do !’’ sobbed the astonished mother of the
girl, for the good soul had not noticed her
daughter’s condition, and, of course, had
given her no instruction as to either causes
°r effects. So the girl became a pupil in the
school of self-teaching—and a hard school it
is. And the course of study is not com-
plete yet. In addition to that lonely experi-
ence at 4 a.m. in the paddock, she will, as
soon as her health permits, face a magistrate
and explain how it is the baby is a dead
oils.
* * * «
'Hamer ’: The cable has been mentioning
the rather mysterious Australian G.O.C.
Fund. It started with the cash left behind
by a two-up school when it dissolved sud-
HE HAD-BEEN THERE.
“Dress reform, my dear madam? That
would mean all women dressing alike.
They’d never do it!"
“Oh, I don’t know. Women love a uni-
form."
“'M, yes, I’ve noticed that.”
denly on the arrival of an A.I.F. chief. The
fund was established for the purpose of giv-
ing assistance to women whose admiration of
Australian khaki got them into trouble, and
it was augmented by contributions from Aus-
tiahan concert parties. The cases of women
who claimed that their offspring were the
children of Australian soldiers were per-
sonally considered by the G.O.C. A.I.F.
depots in U.K., but the drain on the fund
was not severe, as, usually, the soldier con-
cerned was prepared to make provision him-
self or “do the square thing.” In Septem-
ber last the fund amounted to £2440. Now
several of the unmarried mothers want to
get out to Australia with their children, and
consideration is being given to a proposal
to send them. Why not? At any rate, if
THE TEMPTATION OF ST. ANTHONY.
(Modern version. )
“And note, why did yon leave your last sit nation?"
“Well. you see, the chief got jealous because one of the directors took me out to
dinner a couple of times."
the youngsters are dinkum Australian they
deserve the better start Australia can give
them.
* * * *
“Clancy”: George was orderly in our
Port Said mess and rough as bags. His
language was habitually lurid, and one
abattoirs word was worked into every
remark. At last we decided that every
time he was heard to use it he should be
fined half a piastre, which amount just
bought the mess an egg. After this, when-
ever he slipped, George would break off and
moan, “Oh , there’s another egg!” He
got so careful at last that some days it was
all we could do to get next day’s breakfast
from him; but it was only a matter of get-
ting him excited and it would run to a cus-
tard for lunch as well.
* * * •
An idyll of “Dido’s” suburb :
I was getting home after tram hour’s in circum-
stances involving no discredit, when I saw the man
with the antique whiskers coming at me.
He was noticeable for having those long,
pronged whiskers that blow back behind a
man when he runs, in an age when varie-
gated face hair is strictly taboo ; but it was
also noteworthy that he was wearing only
trousers and a cotton undershirt, and his
braces streaked out in his wake in con-
formity with his whiskers. He was bear-
ing down on me with an expression that
I could only interpret in terms of murder,
so i made a swipe at him with my
father-in-law’s umbrella. He smartly
side-stepped my effort, and went bound-
ing on his way. Apparently I was not,
after all, the object of his diabojical in-
tent. He tore through a gate two houses
down, and I heard him uprooting the
door bell. Somebody came to the door
and cursed the man, whereat he pelted
forth again, and tumbled on to the
verandah of the place next door, swaying
on the bell-pull. Here he was in error
again, for he presently came kangarooing
off these premises, and fled over the road.
A motor full of melodious drunks touched
him in passing, and he scrambled into
the gutter. The motor turned to
apologise, but the man witli the antique
whiskers was already up and running. A
policeman came round the corner, saw the
flight, and joined in. Two men who
were .scooping out the sewers followed
the policeman. A belated cabman, see-
ing the possibility of a job, tacked on,
beating his reluctant horse to a canter.
Here I fell out of the running, and went
home. To-day I saw the man with the
antique whiskers again. He was wheeling absolutely
new twins in a quite fresh perambulator.
“Pittura”: London is “hitting it up” in
art as in other matters. Whistler’s portrait
of Lady Meux was sold the other day for
£lO,OOO. If London were normal that might be
reckoned a great victory for Whistler—he
whom Ruskin called “a coxcomb flinging a
pot of paint in the public’s face.” In the
same great city, where at the moment you
are liable to be charged 375. Od. for your
breakfast, a portrait by Sir Joshua Rey-
nolds has just been sold for £15,540, and
his “Magic Muse” was withdrawn after a
bid of £54,600. Sixty years ago Lord Ilert-
ford deputed his friend Maw son to buy Rey-
nolds's “Strawberry Girl” at Christie’s,
grumbled at the price paid (£2205), and
wrote saying he would not care to have a
large basket at that price. For “Nelly
O’Brien" lie had paid only £O4 Is. In fact,
this picture is reported to have changed’
hands during the lifetime of Reynolds for a
tenner, and some say it was sold for three
guineas in the year that the beauty died —
which, if true, was rather rough on the
fascinating minx who had passed so many
pleasant hours with Lord Bolingbroke and
others. For a single figure, “Joseph Coz-
mans,” the work of the Dutchman Franz
Hals, £26,775 was recently paid—more than
the London National Gallery paid in 1908
for the vast “Happy Family,” which con-
tains ten magnificent Hals portraits. And
the Wallace collection has “The Laughing
Cavalier,” which the previously-mentioned
Lord Hertford got in 1865 for £2040.
* * * *
“Skipper”: I can match "Staff Captain’s”
brilliant order (B. l/l/’2O). It wanted :!0
minutes to zero hour, for the first Pozieres
stunt. Something had made Fritz appre-
hensive, and he was strafing Black Watch
Alley, through which the support battalions
were moving up, with a mixture of gas
shells and h.e. Suddenly a runner emerged
from the gloom. “From Brigade!” he gasped
handing the 0.0. a long envelope. “How
long were you getting through, lad?” the Old
Man asked. "Must ha’ been hours, sir—-
the trench was blocked with troops.” There
was no time to waste, as it might mean a
change of plans. The C.O. tore open the
envelope and, crouching under his greatcoat,
switched on his torch. “The General Officer
Commanding-in-Chief,” he read, “regrets that
m the matter of saluting there is still much
to be desired. Slackness in saluting means
lack of discipline impress upon men
salute car of G.0.C.-in-C distinguished
by miniature Union Jack on bonnet.” The
Old Man groaned, stuffed the notes on
etiquette viciously in a pocket and went on
with his last-moment preparations for the
great stunt.
* * * *
“Blanc”: Another war like the last and
I rench will be on the way to become the
universal language. I spoke to several Sikhs
in France and found they had no English.
They asked me, “Parley-vous Francais?”
Conversation was then carried on in French
--between two British soldiers! Amongst
themselves they had not found English neces-
sary, but three years’ billeting in Fran e
™I given them a good grip of the language
of diplomacy and cooks.
* * * *
P. : A claim by Dr. A. L. Dean, presi-
dent and chemistry professor of the
Hawaiian University, that lie had cured
several cases of leprosy at the Kalahi Hos-
pital (Honolulu) by the use of Chaul-
moogia oil (refined by his own process)
hasnt so far deeply impressed the faculty
elsewhere. Still, of course, that doesn’t
prove there’s nothing in it. One London
bacteriologist saj r s that leprosy (which is
not very rare even in Europe) was prac-
tically proved k> be an exaggerated form of
skm tuberculosis, and though, through the
ages, attempts had been made to cure it by
a specific, it had proved as refractory as
lung tuberculosis. He couldn’t see luiw a
mere local application of any substaice
could be of great value. “The oulv claim
ever made for the cure of leprosy before
the eyes of the people was the Biblical one.”
he added. Which recalls Haskett Smith’s
explanation of why lepers weren’t to wash
in the rivers of Damascus, but might try
their luck in the Jordan. The former were
clear; but no man can walk into the Jordan
without sinking in mud. So Elisha, who
was a medical man, simply prescribed for
Xaaman a mud bath —the treatment to this
day of skin diseases in their early stages.
“Gleniris” : A par. about the brick-famine
in Melbourne (B. ±/8/’2O) indicated £5 per*
1000 as a top-notch price for odd lots of
bricks. Since then, with coal supplies cut off
by the marine engineers’ strike, Melbourne’s
brick-works,;shut down, and builders in dire
need of supplies “to finish a job” have been
paying as much as £lO per 1000. Several
plants are now booked ahead for nine months
and more. When will the Government start
kilns of its own? Numbers of soldiers, sooner
than wait for P. Enterprise to dole out his
restricted, supplies, are changing their
original intention to build brick dwellings
under the Government repayment scheme
and are using timber only. Cost of upkeep
and value 20 years hence of the wooden
house compare most unfavorably with that
of brick : but the Government expresses n<>
misgivings, nor promises any amendment of
the situation.
* * * *
“G.X.G.”: Some of these dear old Wood-
bine officers finished the war with just the
same ideas as they entered it. Our lot met
one at Maubeuge, where he was town major.
Two of our fellows—with a couple of decora-
tions strolling round after the
Armistice and came upon him. Of course
lie looked for his salute. When he didn’t
Set it, “Halt, you Australians!” lie roared.
‘‘After ,live years of war, don’t you fellows
know your duty?’’ The least tongue-tied
Digger just threw his chin over his shoulder
and replied, “Yes, and we well done it.”
* * * *
A Wellington (M.L.) draper was
the other day fined £4 with costs on a charge
of obstruction. He hired three living female
models ,oil which to display the latest things
iii stockings and garters, and the opportunity
of giving heed to six shapely understandings,
visible, as a shocked John Hop explained,
“to within about three inches above th<
knee,” caused Wellington to behave as
though temporarily demented. The fact
that only the legs of the ladies were visible
added to the attractiveness of the exhibition,
for verily the prodigal daughter who owneth
a fatted calf oft has little else entitled to
the gaze of admiration.
* * * #
“Mistletoe”: The Tommy officer could
pretty often bluff an unfair advantage out of
a Tommy M.P., but the Digger M.P. hated
AFTER THE STORM.
“And once you used to offer me a penny for
my thoughts!”
“Well, what’re you snivelling at? I’ll give
you a whole quid for them now if you’ll
keep ’em to yourself.”
that sort of bluff worse than. mud. During
the Big Bush we were taking our battery
nags down' to the Somme for a drink. There
was a niucli-used cross-roads where some-
times you might wait half an hour before you
got through. A hefty six-foot Aussie M.P.
had charge of the track, which was traversed
by one continuous stream of guns, ammo-
waggons, motor-lorries, tractors, etc., pushing
011 after the greasy Hun. A Tommy officer
with his six-gun battery tried to butt in out
of his turn this day, and gave orders to his
drivers to “walk march.” The Aussie
jumped to the heads of the leaders, threw
them back on their haunches, and whipping
out his squirt threatened to puncture the
first choom that moved. There was no burial
forty requred. The battery halted. It was
the first time I ever heard an M.P. cheered.
THE CHEATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of those who consult a doctor nowadays a
minority wish to be cheated. If they are given a
perfectly straightforward aid candid opinion, and
it happens to lie favorable, they thank their medical
attendant profusely, and seek another whose opinion
will bo more unfavorable.” — Dr. James Barrett lec-
turing in Melbourne.
Oh, Doctor Brown, I've called on you,
For urgent, sir, my case is.
I'm anxious for a month or two
To visit other places.
So look me over, do, and find
A slightly floating kidney,
And send me off before the wind,
In Hobart Town relief to find,
Or seek due rest in Sydney.
Dear Doctor Jones, in need am I
Of rest in realms umbrageous;
Examine me and certify
To something that’s contagious,
My daily toil has much increased,
I’d like a long curtailment.
If you can work it send me east.
I'm sick of office. At the least,
That’s an authentic ailment.
A medical certificate
Produce, and I’m your debtor;
I need in my precarious state
An aider and abettor.
The actual ills you cannot cure
Of mortals poor or wealthy ;
Then use your credit to secure
A fling for those poor wretches who’re
Abominably healthy !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


The Studebaker Light 4
Reasonable in price—Economical in upkeep
THERE, was a belief, long cherished, that to be strong and powerful a
thing had to be ponderous. The idea has been exploded in many
fields—in the motoring field especially.
One of the best examples of this highly desirable condition of light-
ness wedded to strength and power is found in the Studebaker “Light 4
—a car that is reasonable in price, economical to maintain, powerful,
flexible and sturdy.
The “Light 4“ has a good length of wheel-base, allowing the provision
of a fine roominess for the accommodation of five passengers. Its design
insures easy turning in narrow streets, its responsiveness permits a quick
handling amid congested traffic. These are features of great value to the
driver in the city, where time and swift action are of real moment.
The “Light 4“ embodies all the excellent features of construction
which have always distinguished Studebaker Cars. Its fine shock-absorbing
spring suspension and splendid balance eliminate jar and side-sway on even
the worst roads. For this reason, among others, the “Light 4 is a
very popular country car.
Elegantly fitted, finished and equipped, the Studebaker Light 4 is
at once the car for pleasure and the car for sound, enduring service.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited
Head Office for Australia: Ml Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
South Australian Branch: J Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited, Christchurch,
Timaru, Wanganui, Palmerston Norta.
The Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
■i
% ' i:
m,
m
wmmm
m
am
Km v
J 4
Jm
it m
,r
Hi
I
■
: iS?
:
■
? /


SISUCE
PBI
-V0
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH’’
hjl
deaf?
You can HEAR,
and we prove it
by sending you,
post free, an
easy- to- wear.
5*
Acousticori
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, including the
Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has
been using the '‘Acousticon” for more
than five years! The “Acousticon" will
safely and surely enable you to heart
Convince yourself at our expense, and
DON’T STAY DEAF
Storef 102 Daking House. SYDNEY
Service w- Olderfleet, Collins St, MELB.
Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Chrutc’h.
A.: 11. tittle & Co., 851 Bay Street, Perth.
Lamson
A Signal Success
The TOP-NOTCHScotck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Melos”; The broad-leafed ti-tree yields
a nectar that might be made into excellent “navvy”
beer. Bees fed thereon are quarrelsome and lose
every shred of self-respect. A person, too, after
a blow-out of the honey, feels inclined to argue
with the neighbors and chase his wife with a
kettleful of boiling water. A peculiarity about the
tree itself—anyhow, on the N. S. Wales North
Coast—is that it has three periods of blooming,
and each period has cycles of honey-yielding. Bees
flock to the bloom for several days, and then re-
tire for a term. When the flow has ceased, the
workers mobilise and either look for fight or rob
their fellows with great enthusiasm and industry.
“C. Coral”: On Darnley Island, Torres
Strait, are some springs of fresh water quite close to
the beach. This is how the islander accounts for
them. In the old days, when the Fogo tribe lhed
there, it was customary, before going turtle-hunting,
to ensure good luck by filling a big helmet-shell
with fresh water, and hanging it in the grove where
the tribe lived. One day the canoes set off, leaving
the charm hanging in the trees. Some distance
away lived a man named Eib. Rising from sleep
he caught a glimpse of a glistening object. He
investigated. “Ah, that one good thing!” he said.
“I think more better I take him.” On his why home
he capsized some of the water. That forms one of
the springs mentioned. Proceeding further, he acci-
dentally capsized some more at Nabair: this forms
another waterhole. Arrived at his own place, Mei,
he lay down, and he “drink, drink, drink till close
up that stomach belong him burst! ” Meanwhile,
the turtle-people (known as Mauram) had had no
luck out on the reef. “More better we go back,”
said they; “might be some bad luck come along
that thing belong us.” Getting in towards the shore,
they missed the glitter of the charm, and on landing
set up a wail of anger and sorrow. “Him he go;
nothing got. Somebody been steal him —spoil him!”
Looking on the ground, they detected footprints
and followed them. At Mei they found Eib
asleep, and recognised the desecrated charm.
Filled with fury all immediately dug their stingray-
tail spears (called “atlebleb”) into the purloiner’s
stomach. Straightway a stream of water gushed
out and formed a big pool, into this the avengers
threw the body of Eib, along with the desecrated
shell; and Eib’s waterhole, with Eib himself (a big
stone) and the shell, may be seen to this day, an
awful warning to purloiners of sacred objects.
“U.l\”: According to Captain S. A.
White, S. Aus.’s leading bird-student, our native
fauna are putting up u remarkable fight against im-
ported enemies, the worst of which is the fox. The
lyre-bird, which is classed as one of the most intelli-
gent as well as the bush’s best mimic, always built
near the ground ; but soon after Reynard began his
depredations it was noticed the birds built higher.
Even then the fox scrambled up and destroyed eggs
and young, so the birds built higher still, and now
have their homes out of their enemy’s reach. It is
considered that the habit of nesting high up will
now be constant with these birds. Unfortunately
others, such as the mallee-fowl, haven’t learned the
trick.
* ♦ * *
An effort claimed to be a world’s record
was put up at Waiweapa station, Dannevirke (M.L.),
the other day, when Jack Happy (a Maori) undressed
373 sheep in eight hours. Last year Happy did 3GI.
S. Patterson (311), lv. Hotereni (309) and R. Chase
(303) added their efforts to make a new world’s
record aggregate of 1290 for a team of four.
“Mallee Bird”: A farmer at Warrackna-
beal owns a cow with a preference for strange com-
pany. Finding Strawberry's milk supply unex-
pectedly falling off, he watched and discovered that
she was suckling a pig. As the pork and the beef
seemed to be inseparable the cocky slaughtered the
pork. The trouble did not end there, for shortly
afterwards a further shortage in the bucket resulted
in another pig being caught enjoying a milk diet.
As the household then had plenty of bacon, mea-
sures were taken to place Strawberry beyond reach
of her pals; but for nights afterwards she kept up
an incessant bellow for the suckers.
“The Immature Male”: The recent nor-
easters have stranded a number of Portuguese men-
o’-war on the beach at Manly (N.S.W.), and bathers
have been attacked by numerous miscroscopic pests,
which, for want of a more scientific Ijlbel, have
been dubbed “sea lice.” The symptoms are a cir-
cumscribed itchy irritation, chiefly on the legs, chest
or armpits, which persists for some hours after the
bather leaves the water. A local theory is that
the discomfort is caused by minute parasites carried
by the stranded blubbers. Any Abo.-mariner know the
visitor? Years ago there was a yachting accident
at Werribee (Vic.), when three people were drowned.
About a week later, when the bodies were recovered,
the faces and other portions had been eaten away
by what were described as sea lice. I’ve always
remembered that horror.
* - * •
“.Tim Carew” : We were yarning round the
fire in the Blanky Dry Hotel when an old bullock
navigator chipped in. “I once had a team of 16 yoked
from seven in the mornin’ till five the same afternoon
on to a big red gum log, and never got a blanky
move out of it. When I unyoked I ran the tape
over the log and found that she’d stretched four feet
seven inches!” That closed the session.
“Jim Carew”: A tribe of abos. near the
Macdonnell Ranges have a queer legend. When
a death occurs amongst them the body is buried
and the top of the grave is made exactly level with
the surrounding ground and carefully smoothed over.
Every morning the tribe, headed by the chief, visits
the spot to see if there are any tracks on it.
The belief is that the community’s guardian spirit
turns the spirit of the departed Binghi into an
animal, and that Binghi, in his new guise, jumps
on the grave to let the crowd know what he has
been turned into. It is generally a wallaby. If
in the course of a moon no tracks appear on the
grave it is surmised that the deceased had offended
the spirit during his life, and is just plain dead.
I once faked a track on a grave. It was something
between the prints of a kangarop and an eagle.
Next morning when the tribe visited the grave and
saw the marks they let out a yell and bolted back
to the camp. Fifteen minutes later they were
making towards Sunset. 1 was told by a badlv-
scared nig that “Debbil-debbil bin sit' down long
there.”
NO LONGER REQUIRED.
FARM DRUDGE (receiving a week's notice): “Ain’t I done all the ’eavy work ’ere—the
fencing and ploughing and milking, and looked after the fowls and the pigs, done
yer cooking and washin’? ’Aren’t I earned me money?”
COCKY: “’ Tain’t that! Yer see I'm goin’ ter git married.”
“Wandi” : I don’t know a case of a man
being killed *bv a kangaroo, but I know one who
narrowly missed that distinction. It was some
years ago at Southport, near Brisbane. The ’roo
had been bailed up by two dogs, one of which it
hugged to death. Seeing the other in peril, Fallis,
the owner of the hounds, rushed to give a hand, and
the marsupial tackled him. A fierce fight followed,
and the man was getting considerably the worst of
it when two more dogs bustled to the rescue and
pulled the big, grey beast to the ground.
“Chloe”: Shot a pelican last week in the
Lachlan Lagoon, and filled the sac of the beak
with water. It held six gallons! These pelicans are
seen in thousands round Lakes Cudgellico and Cowal,
but they rarely travel far from their communal nest-
ing sites.
* * + *
“Sleipnir”: When “H.V.E.” says that
Captain Cook was the first European to note the
kangaroo (B. l/l/’2O), he forgets that Dampier in
his Journal records that “the land animals that
we saw here (W. Australia) were only a sort of
racoons, different from those of the Vest Indies
chiefly as to their legs, for these have very short
forelegs, but go jumping upon them as the others
do, and like them are very good meat.” Earlier
in Dampier’s records appears what seems to be the
first mention of the eucalypt: “They are about the
bigness of our large apple-trees, and about the same
height, and the rind is blackish and somewhat rough :
the leaves are of a dark color, the gum distils out
of the knots or cracks that are in the bodies of
the trees. We compared it with some gum-dragon or
dragon’s blood that was aboard, and it was of the
same color and taste.” The “dragon’s blood” men-
tioned was evidently the resin of some East Indian
palm.
“Dido”: The tramway at Native Youth
bisected the township clustered in the basin of the
creek, and was carried on a high embankment for a
quarter of a mile or so. It had been constructed to
facilitate the cartage of quarts', from the Argyle East,
group of mines to the big battery at the “Argyle
pioper, as it was called locally. But the eastern
end of the lode had acquired its own batteries of late,
and now the tall embankment of the tramway was
used only as a public highway connecting the east-
ern and western sections of Native Youth township.
The footpath at the top was narrow, and the slopes
were abrupt, and prohibition had not yet been estab-
lished at Native Youth, consequently the fall of man
was so frequent along the northern and southern
slopes of the tramway that people had ceased to
regard them. In fact, to fall off was accepted as
the most expeditious way of going home. This
downpour of humanity was particularly heavy on
Saturday, the favorite night for inebriation among
the miners, who, as a whole, understood that Sunday
had been instituted for the purpose of sleeping it
off. On the particular Saturday night I have in
mind, Crimp, coming home with his load, rocked a
few inches too far north, hit two yards down with
the back of his neck, revolved three times, tore
through a clump of saplings and a rough paling
fence, and was precipitated into a back yard. Pulling
himself together the miner dived indoors, and, be-
lieving himself quite at home, was beating the
missus on general principles, when Croker arrived at
the kitchen door. Croker was Crimp’s mate and
boon companion. “Come away, dock, you damphool!”
he ejaculated. “You’ve fallen off on the wrong
side, and it’s my missus you’re bastin’.”
* * * *
“Acrabah”; Here’s an old-time method
of “blotching” a brand to help some of you. Cut
a piece of deal board the needed size and smooth
down very thin. Cut a slit on one side of the
brand and insert the slip of wood between the tis-
sues of the hide and the flesh. In a short time the
brand rots off, the slip of wood falls, and no trace
of the original marking is left. Now do your worst.
“Wervis”: How is this? At Hurstbridge
(Vic.) the stationmaster, who makes snake-hunting
a hobby, plugged a lady tiger sunning herself.
When opened she unloaded 19 small ones Gin. long.
AT THE BACK OF BEYOND.
SHIM: “ Betcher I got more marks than you
for geography.”
HIM : “P’raps yer did; but I betcher didn’
get yours where I got mine!”
“Ginger Mick”: Wanted a simple method
of keeping tobacco moist. I find that a small twig
from a fig-tree placed in the jar of weed is a
make-shift, but I’ll swap it for something better
if it’s handy.
{Continued on page 22.)
ROAD-RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Take care for me,” she bravely said—
The dawnlight touched his down-bent head —
“I’ll keep things bright till you come back;
Time soon will pass for me and Jack.”
He kissed her child and rode away
Into the blood-red heart of Day.
It’s “Good-bye, Harry! So-long, Bill!”
With smiling face and heart fear-still.
It’s “Good-night, Janet! Farewell, Kate !
The road of Life’s a road of Fate.”
The sun drooped down, and ghostly white
The young moon swam the pool of night.
She sang the little one to sleep,
And felt the eerie shadows creep
About the hut with hushed, slow tread.
But with the morn her terror fled.
It’s “Cheer-up, Molly ! Don’t cry, May !
Keep watch for me. There’ll come a day
When even drovers couch with Rest
And every wanderer seeks her breast.’’
Sometimes the silence like a pall
About her lonely life would fall.
She’d clutch the child to her and cry
Soul-sobbing to the still, stern sky.
Oh, warmth of infant happiness,
His laughter was her God’s caress!
It’s “Farewell, Harry! Good-day, Ned!”
And “Turn the horse’s tired head.”
Oh, waving whip and quivering mouth
While one goes north and one rides south !
THE CURSE OF A READY TONGUE.
DISGUSTED AUSTIONEER (selling valuable
toy): “What, only one bid of ten bob for
an article north ten quid! Well, all I
can say, madam, you’re the only mother
in the room who deserves her children
— name, please?”
BIDDER : “Miss Tompkins!”
Through rain and fire, firm-lipped she fought,
Their little hut her first, white thought.
“I know that Dad will soon be back.”
She’d take the child along the track
And turning homeward, lone yet strong,
Choke back her tears with some old song.
It’s “Courage, Mary ! Don’t you fret!
We’ve years and years for gladness yet.
The moon goes down; the sun will rise
To see the welcome in your eyes.”
And there’s a sound of horse’s feet....
Harmonious hammers crash and beat
About her brain in maddened pace. . . .
A shout—a whistle —dust —his face
“O man, my man, what pain is this?”
Babe lips are prattling, “Kiss, kiss, kiss”....
It’s “Bless you Edward! Kiss me Fred!”
With quivering lips and lifted head.
Oh, all the roads a man may roam
Are paved with love and end in home.
x.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.


“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS
At 1/- each (or I\\ i posted)
are che best value offering for readers of fiction.
Practically every Australian novelist of note is represented. The Series,
comprising over 100 volumes, of which over 2,000,000 copies have already
actually been sold, caters for every taste.
HAVE YOU READ?
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ‘ROARING MEG’ ” - by Jack McLaren
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON” by Beatrice Grimshaw
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE” by Con Drew
“YELLOW SILVER” by Edward Meryon
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT” - by Ambrose Pratt
“DOUBLE-BED DIALOGUES” by Henry James James
“BASE BRANDS” - by H. M. Somer
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE” by M. Forrest
-“BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGINEER” -by Randolph Bedford
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” by Ralph Stock
“THE WHITE CHAMPION” by Don Delaney
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
EDWARD DYSON’S Humorous Novels.
STEELE RUDD’S Selection Stories.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Great Sporting Novels.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S Humorous Books.
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS
NEW COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF OVER 100 AUSTRALIAN
SHILLING NOVELS SENT FREE ON REQUEST.
“IRONBARK SPLINTERS,”
By G. Herbert Gibson (“Ironbark”).
A Splendid volume of bush and othe' 1 poems—including the widely-
known “My Mate Bill.”
“One of the most attractive shilling’s-worth on the market.” —The Bulletin.
PRICE 1/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
ill
m
a*
RUMMOND’S have just added to their large
selection of Solid Silver and Silver-plated ware
a selection of extra high-grade quality Cafe
Trays and Salvers. These are particularly suit-
able for Wedding Gifts and Presentations, and are
represented in a variety of sizes and chaste designs.
®Em. Brummonfo & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
The Smartest Dressers
Prefer Leviathan Tailoring.
The
“Super-Quality
Suit
£lOlO/-
MADE TO MEASURE.
Tailored in Fox’s Fine Twill,
Navy or Black Serge, will
not gloss or shine with wear,
Or Super-Fine Fancy Tweeds
or Worsteds, Latest Designs,
£9/91-
THE “SUPER-QUALITY" SHIT
reveals the highest degree
of Leviathan excellence.
Special designing gives, it
a. distinctiveness. The
Materials have been care-
fully selected, and the work-
manship is of unusual
quality.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS,
HOME-MEASUREMENT
CHART AND TAPE.
RETURNED SAILORS & SOLDIERS
ALLOWED 10 PER CENT. DISCOUNT.
rx.
i ...
i:’y.
mm
$ "'mm
r
IS
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
T**
Leviathan
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEA SE NOTE-WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
Vi
03
9
MAXWELL TRUCKS
THE Maxwell 30cwt. Truck is particularly adapted for over-
seas use because, although sturdy in construction, it is light
in weight—24oo pounds—and can go where larger trucks
cannot operate.
In fact the Maxwell Truck has so successfully filled a Jong-
felt want throughout the world for a low-priced, simple, sturdy,
economical Truck that to-day it has taken its place among the
four trucks with largest production in America.
The same economy of operation is ever evident in the
Maxwell 30cwt. Truck as is proverbial the world over in Maxwell
Motor Cars.
Magneto, Worm Drive, 10-foot loading space, Electric
Lights and Generator. Right- or Left-Hand Drive optional.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc
OF DETROIt, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —New York .”
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26*38 City Road, Sydney.


Sterling fads
concerning'
s.
e>
WV.V/.W
* #(I»*
o
&
w:
<2
c
6
fc/LXT^
TRADR MARK.
CEILINGS
On Economic and Artistic Points WUNDERLICH STAMPED STEEL is now employed
for every class of Interior Decoration
BECAUSE of its DURABILITY, ADAPTABILITY, SIMPLICITY in FIXING, Safety
from FIRE and non-harborage of DIRT or MICROBES.
SHOWROOMS:—Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart, Launceston.
CATALOGUES POST FREE ON REQUEST FROM MANUFACTURERS,
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
The Ceiling People,
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS:
Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W. ;
POSTAL ADDRESS:
Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
“Bright” : Binghi was the owner of a pony
whose only fault was a nasty habit of shying, anc
whenever it indulged in this the rider was invari-
ably transplanted. Binghi’s patience having giver
out, he determined to cure the moke. He obtained
the services of a black boy whom he instructed tc
go down the road and hide behind a certain bush.
When he and the pony came alongside the kid was
to jump up and sing out, “Shoo!” On the pony
shying Binghi intended to give him a hiding that
would cure him of his bad habit. Everything would
have gone all right if the boy had not mistaken
the tree and got under one 2O yards nearer
home than Binghi meant. The boy played his part
Well and truly. So did the pony. When Binghi
had collected himself from the road he roared at
the boy: "You plurry fool, you makem ‘shoo’ loud
’nuf for a plurry draught-horse.”
* * * *
“South Coaster”: The plant with a bright
purple flower, known as vervain and very like ver-
bena, has appeared in profusion in parts of the South
Coast (N.S.W.) this season. If allowed to spread
this weed will put the grass in its vicinity out of
business. It is distinct from “purple-top,” a much
more vigorous weed, which grows to over 4ft. in
height and is a curse at times. False castor-oil
plant (Datura stramonium) is also in evidence on
the flats since the heavy rains. It contains a power-
ful and poisonous alkaloid akin to hyoscyamus, and
may in dry seasons cause the death of horses and
cattle. Cigarettes for asthmatics are made from
the leaves of this plant, but, as usual, though
stramonium js common throughout Australia, the
cigarettes are imported or made from imported leaves.
“Stargazer” : Old George often told us the
story .of how he narrowly missed marrying a .big
Riverina farm. He was playing with Ponton’s Lon-
don Dramatic Co. when that fine organisation went
to pieces at one of the railway towns north of
Albury. George had received no salary for three
weeks, and had lived an improvident life, so that
the collapse of Ponton left him penniless. At this
crisis, to George’s surprise, a plump widow inter-
vened with a highly satisfactory proposition. George
was to take over the management of her farm at
a figure most pleasing to him. It was George's
fond delusion that the lady was struck on his
shape, and he accepted without hesitation, although
he knew as much about the management of a farm
as a cod knows of the craters of the moon. Within
a fortnight George and Mrs. May were engaged, and
from that on there was nothing but trouble, George’s
ignorance of agriculture being the sore subject.
Then the lady gave a party, and invited the neigh-
bors. George's heart was light right up to the
finish of the supper, when his little widow arose
and solemnly repudiated her engagement. She said
she wished to intimate that she had no intention
of . marrying George. She had changed her mind,
she said, because George as a farmer man was a
delusion and a snare who thought sheep hatched their
own eggs and believed that onions should be encour-
aged to grow the other way up. “When I engaged
him,” said the widow, now in tears, “he professed
to be the owner of one of the most beautiful farms
I have ever seen, but now I know he is an impostor.”
She turned and shook a vindictive fist in George’s
face. “You know you are an impostor!” she cried.
“You know in your heart that you never had a thing
to do with handling that farm.” Then George knew
what was the matter. The widow's refer-
ence was to a beautiful g-old and g-reen
stage-farm in “The Gilded Sin” which George
as the hero was supposed to be cultivating,
and which, he remembered, the press-agent had
declared was the picture of one to which the hero
retired when he rested from his arduous theatrical
labors.
“Harrington”: Has any Abo. bad ex-
perience with “oopina” (this is a local name)
timber ? It grows along the Warrego swamps from
the border right to the Darling. I
have seen only one growing on the
eastern side of the Darling, and
that was in a guile near Cobar.
The timber is unsurpassed for coach-
huilding, and old hands around
Enngonia will go miles out of their
way for oopina to repair a broken
shaft or make a new one. The
leaves of the vegetable make sheep-
feed second only to mulga, a peculi-
arity being the different flavor of different trees in
the same clump.
* * * *
“Staple”: Sheep do not moult every year
if not shorn. In July, 1916, I classed the clip of
1700 ewes that had been turned out in a mulga
paddock in October, 1914. They were 2000 strong
when turned out in lamb and off-shears. They were
not yarded till July, ’l6, when they were 1700
strong, had 21 months’ wool, and 48 per cent, of
unmarked lambs at foot up to 19 months old. They
averaged 121 b. of wool, which brought I7:}d. per
fleece and 16d. for pieces, and there were only three
bales of tender wool. The report I received from
the brokers was: “The wool opened up in good con-
dition, splendid staple and sound, and was strongly
competed for by all sections of the trade.” It is a
common thing on large runs to see sheep carrying
two years’ fleece—sometimes more.
“Sapling” : This advt. appeared in S.M.H.
(6/l/’2O) •
For Sale. —Ironbark girder, 46ft. x 24in. x 24in.
Birt and Go., Ltd.
If any Abo. has a bigger stick than this in his
swag let’s have a look at it.
“ J. 8.0.”: He was very drunk, and as he
approached I noted that he wore a blue ribbon
in his coat. Later I asked him what he wore
the ribbon for. He said: “Any amount of blokes
when they see that in my buttonhole tempt me with
a pint, an’ I always fall.”
* » • *
“Cape Pork”: Ikey Rosenstein was a
typical travelling jeweller doing the Gulf, and as
the annual picnic and races
were to be held at the
head station of a big squat-
tage he blew up that way
with cheap trash to sell to
the abos., who had just got
their year’s pay —or what
the Government didn’t put
away in safe-keeping for
them. He set out in one
of the homestead buggies
with enough dunnage to
supply the requirements of
the abo. population for
years, and if he had been
a sport all would have
passed well. But his mean-
ness when it came to
breasting the bar got him
“set.” So you could hardly
blame the “ringers” for
what followed. Ikey was
in the act of getting into
the buggy between the
squatter’s good-looking
daughters, when a small
abo. boy appeared along-
side with a brown-paper
parcel, and handing it up
to the Yid blurted out:
“MammaDeen tell-em tak-em
you jarmas you been leab-em
longa camp lars night.” It
cost the lads a couple of
shillings for the kid and
a drop of rum for the
“mamma,” but they reckoned the joke well worth it.
“Haka”: At Timaru (MX.) the other
day two women and a man whiled away two and
a half hours in angling for trevalli. The seance pro-
duced 120 fish. Any complaints?
“December”: Binghi was looking at the
last smouldering embers of the gunyalr—a. single-
roomed shack of solid timber won from the sur-
rounding bush. At his side stood Denis Murphy,
the village beer-silo, who condoled with him in
terms of the deepest alcoholic sympathy: “Shore, an’
it’s a tirrible misfortchune that has caught ye,
Binghi, me boy, in these dreadthful toimes of
dhrought, beer stroike, illictions and the tirrible
price o’ things. Begorra, an’ a pity it is ye hadn’t
toime to inshure your foine shanty, and ’tis hard
for people loike meself to show- the true feelin’s of
their moinds whin the harrow o’ the divil’s own
bad luck rips tliim up be the roots.” Murphy’s
voice had by this time grown husky with rum and
emotion. Binghi, with a stolid face, turned and
gazed solemnly at his friend for a moment. “Mine
tink it, Murphy,” he said, “the blacksmith gib it
plurry fine price for the charcoal.”
“H.V.E.”: Had a boshter entertainment
the other day watching a South Coast (N.S.W.)
laughing-jack doing his best to get down his neck a
red stalk of rhubarb, probably under the impression
that it was a giant earthwonn. Several times he
got most of the vegetable down, but when it tickled
his pantry he ejected it, chortled meditatively, and
began afresh. During the performance a mate sat
on a fence close by watching operations and making
derisive remarks.
“J.D.”: I have been classing wool and
sheep for 15 years, and I can inform “Buttinhere”
(B. 1/1 /’2O) that after 12 months’ growth the fleece
•'oes not, except very occasionally, fall off the un-
THE HOUR GLASS.
“When did Bill go out?"
“ ’Bout five beers ago."
shorn jumbuck, though when cut the second year
the wool is sometimes tender. I have just finished
classing a clip of wool of 18 months’ growth, 150
bales, and it was all sound. In this clip I got
three bales of three years’ growth, about 14 inches
long, and all the fleece intact. Every year on big
stations there are a few bales of two years’ growth,
and it is branded “Double fleece.”
“Cape Pork” : A few years ago on Wro-
tham Park station (N.Q.) a new brand of tinned
beef was introduced to the blacks, and to the sur-
prise of the manager they refused to touch it. The
old brand had to be resorted to, and all went well
again. The explanation was that the new brand
had a label in vivid colors of a soldier standing
ready to receive an invisible cavalry charge, and
Binghi took it as undisputed testimony that the
tin contained “white phella soldier.” The label on
NOT TOO SURE OF IT.
PILOT (contemplating descent): “ Well,
what do you think —can we land?"
OBSERCER (dubiously): "Oh, yes, I think
we can land all right."
PILOT : “H'm, well, have a good look and
see if you can pick out a hospital."
the old brand represented a fat bullock, and our
discolored brother was quite satisfied that “that one
pliella he all right—he bullock. Other phella no
plurry good. No good givem bov dead plurry soldier
kai kai.”
“Med”: This is how Henare described a
stiff and painful knee: “Cripe, my reg (leg) he te
peggar for me! Te time I wanter go to sheep
(sleep) te nine clock, te plurry reg lie won’t go
to sheep till ’leven clock. Te time I wanter wake
up te sheven clock, te plurry reg he won’t wake
up till ten clock. You cot te medshine for him?”
“Friday Island”: Maubiaig Island, in
Torres Strait, about 40 miles from
Thursday Island, is remarkable for
the fatness of the natives and the
prevalence of the dugong, whose oily
flesh is in great demand there as
tucker. The mammal grows to 12ft,
in length, has short tusks protecting
a snout like an elephant’s trunk sawn
Off, and its digestive apparatus is
fitted for grass fuel. The flesh is ex-
cellent meat, and one dugong will
feed a couple of hundred natives. The
skin- is tough, pliable, smooth, free
oi oil and easily removed. If properly
tanned it should make excellent
leather. The niggers hunt the du-
gong in a sailing cutter with a man
perched aloft noting with keen eyes
the lines of nibbled grass growing on
the reefy feeding-grounds. When the
quarry is come upon a harpoon is
sent as a keepsake, attached by a
line to a buoyant log which is cast
overboard. The pursued soon tire.:
of dragging the wood, and is then caught. A
trade knife does the rest.
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: One of my
Kanaka girls was sick and for convenience I had
her in a hammock in a spare room. She had
dropped off to a sound sleep for the first time for
some days, and I left her for about half an hour.
When I returned I discovered a snake coiled on
the top of the mosquito-nets. As he seemed to be
asleep, too, I let him alone, hoping he would doze
on till one of the men came. However, he presently
began to move and to reach out for some means of
coming down. I had a stick and my first idea was
to knock him off the nets to the ground ; but there
was no room to do it. I looked round, wondering
what to do. I did not want to wake the sick girl,
who would be dreadfully frightened. On a shelf were
a pair of shears recently sharpened to cut grass.
Happy thought—l could cut the snake’s head off!
I stood up on a chair, opened the shears, and when
the crawler faced the slabs I got him between the
blades. As I snapped them together I hoped his
head would come off quite easily. It had never
occurred to me that there would be any trouble
about it. The blades cut, but only slightly. Still,
they held while the long body thrashed on the nets
and over my arm and against my shoulder and head.
Luckily I had him too close to the head for him
to have any striking power. I was terrified, but I
knew I must hold on. Had I known the horrible
thing was going to be so hard to murder I would
never have been game to try it. It seemed a very-
simple matter to cut a snake in two, but I had not
allowed for his tough scales and skin. My arm and
hand were getting very tired and I was* beginning
to think I’d have to let go directly, when suddenly
the door was pushed open against my chair, and
down I came, shears, snake and all. Fortunately we
fell clear of the bed on to the floor, where the
snake, still fast in the shears, thrashed about all over
the room before we settled him. He was a black
snake.
* * * *
“Mistleto-e”: Urge “Damper” (B.
l/l/’2O) to try this to discourage his prad from
plunging out of shafts while being unhitched. Loop
a long strap with buckle through off-side ring of
bit. Pass both ends over head of nag. Put the
point of the strap through near-side ring of bit.
Then buckle and pull up tight. I have found this
effective. It takes the animal’s mind off the plung-
ing act. (I wish to Heavens somebody- had tried
it on me at Cup time.) Don’t lead the nag out of
the shafts, but push the sulky back.
“Merops” \ It is very interesting to watch
the way animals and birds come to water to drink.
The dingo sneaks up very carefully, stopping,
listening and looking around, reaches the bank,
looks over at the water, then goes completely
around it before he attempts to drink. In between
laps he cocks his head to listen. When his thirst
is quenched he trots off to the bush. The kangaroo
comes in just at dusk, and always to the same
spot, unless he has been disturbed or shot at. In
that case he approaches from a different point.
The wallaby seeks his tipple of an evening slowly,
stopping and listening, drinks till satisfied, then
hops away to the feeding grounds. Eagles and hawks
don't often go to water, but when they do
they just fly straight to it, drink and away. The
wild turkey always walks in to his pub a good
distance before filling ’em up. The bronze-winged
pigeon alights about 50yds. from water, walks in,
and, when satisfied, walks out about the same dis-
tance before flying away. These birds drink about
sunset. The top-knotted pigeon flies to the water’s
edge, puts down its head and drinks like a horse,
THE UNKNOWN REMEDY.
CLIENT: "I wonder if you can do anything
for me."
CHEMIST: “ What's wrong?"
CLIENT: "Well, I got a had cold this morn-
ing and an income-tax paper."
CHEMIST: “ Our infallible catarrh cure is
highly recommended, and” —
CLIENT: “Oh, dash the cold. Have you any-
thing that'll cure the income-tax paper?"
not lifting its hea 1 till finished. The top-knotted
parrots and shell parrots (love-birds) come in by-
hundreds in the afternoon, fly round and round the
water, screaming all the time, before alighting on
adjacent trees. They then drop down to the water,
take one mouthful and fly away screeching as if all
their enemies were after them simultaneously. The
white and the pink cockatoos fly straight to the
refreshment at evening, drink and away again. The
galahs come by the thousand from all quarters
morning and evening, from sunrise till an hour
after, and from one hour before till sunset. They
alight on the edge of the water and stay there some
time. These parrots are the best birds, in my
opinion,, for indicating the location of water, as
they go so regularly to the same place, morning
and evening.
“Bill Bowyang”: Procuring trepang is
not the romantic industry some fiction writers would
lead us to believe. It is a dirty business, and 1
have seen divers covered with hideous sores. Owing
to the nature of the work, and poor food, skin
diseases, especially ringworm, are common amongst
the crews of the luggers. But they don’t seem to
worry.


t m, J
* ft
l i
«!,7 MS «
fP -- | \
<k 4- - V \ f * V
I# .v > || ?N i*»*
Kn« Sis I F ; w\. J?-, . %
. P 7.-. :
f* •
I- r -
LYS’IS
M
£ '%*
% *
!V
\[
V 5
> (
L M
y ;T<\
a ■
tanNV 'v. :~ .- •
Pi
* >,^4...
m
o*s
?»■
:rw*
c/v : :
.tr* v*
7>S’Vi ~&S
mi
»*& *■< ~ <
b&
K i
t: .
‘JgftT
K TMi'.
P
Hi *.. ' : "M’’!
HK
yiiffgp’ JPgsps '
*3
i i
# f!
<r H
m
tr-
m
j.
SHHBfe
I i
is \
HI
m ■■ ■'■
•■'• ' £££
; , <*j3SS&
1 •' .. - F* * 3sk& f"s- f - f-y - , W4/* ' f m&mi "',
:■
i Is
- .
iisi
mm
m
u
*,5«£32
rfe&Tfl
■< A -
mim
ns
ah B ns -
Wm-
tY
9 f*
?t , v . Vr%
■
A ;«
1 ‘ rSjgl
;' " • - V|J
'■ r
....
aPlte
IS
: . .!
m
m
■‘....Msa&sem
■ ■_:
Warn
f',M
M ll
«
*
r T ' aT'V. ’4#*Vy’ • <
?)/ :„"5 -
'> ;. • -v ■•: ■■
'. '
S 2&
t .v
X ■■:
-v
••
■
; ? ' ,;' i: . . #tl '* 'j '•
:.. * /•". J
im^rn
*..
- *: t d
WfcrVgWii
' : -
; - .. V &
K a
'-'VvV, /: '>'
? V ;
D
22
22
D
22
a
a
One of the most pleasurable features of motoring is
the freedom of choosing your own route into the
country—of being able to seek out quiet picturesque
spots that appeal to one’s particular fancy. Constantly
changing scenery—view after view appearing and
passing in quick succession as one motors along
behind a perfectly attuned engine—affords delightful
sensations that are subtly blended. As the pleasurable
and utility side of motoring both depend absolutely on
tyre reliability—it behoves motorists to use only
those tyres that have won a reputation for con-
sistently giving long service and thousands of miles
of running without the slightest trouble. In this
connection you can absolutely rely on Australian-made
D
D
their"dependability—their quality—their mileage
—and economical service—ensuring users of
these high-grade heavy weight covers and
tubes the tyre satisfaction that is essential
before you can get the best out of motoring.
Dunlops—either in “Grooved” or
“Railroad” pattern—will not fail you,
furthermore they will give you cheaper
tyre service than any imported
tyre. Use them —it pays!
Obtainable all Garages ,
MS
RUBBER CO.
AH"..STATES and N.Z.


- ~v ; .
SMOOTH THE WAY FOR
PLEASURE OR BUSINESS
BETTER lubricants better service these
features await you in TEXACO Motor Oils.
Whether you operate a runabout, motor
lorry, limousine or motor cycle, the use of
TEXACO Motor Oil enables you to obtain proper
lubrication without experimenting.
It is becoming a habit now with a great percentage
of Australian motorists to say “TEXACO” when
they want reliable oil The first test of TEXACO
in your car wiil make it natural for you to ask
for TEXACO every time.
The Texas Company (Australasia), Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
and HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., LTD., ADELAIDE.
Petrol, Motor Oils, Greases, Industrial Lubricants,
Marine Oils, Kerosene, Roofing-, Road Asphalt, etc.
r
%
Ask any man who uses a “Gillette” and
you’ll get the decisive answer that it’s a
PRACTICAL razor that shaves without
scraping—and stays sharp without stropping.
Standard Set, complete in case, 23/6
throughout Australia.
*
Be sure this Diamond trade-
mark is on the razor and blades
you buy.
gjhk
XNOWN TWE
wom.o oven
8. HOFFNLJNG & CO., LTD.,
Wholesale Agents Sydney.
the struggling Conrads have not. Their atti-
tude toward the man in the garret is that
of Flinders-lane to the peanut-stall. Of all
the successful magnates of commerce they
are the most complacent and self-satisfied.
There does not seem much hope for the
unpublished novelist in England during the
next few years. But»what about Australia?
How will this affect publishing here? The
answer is already at hand in the number of
Australian, books creeping on to the bookstalls.
The flood of English books has been cut off
at its source, and publishing in Australia has
become a practicable proposition. It is
likely to make enormous strides in the next
few years, for other factors have increased
the demand for Australian books. Thus the
circumstances which a few associated writers
tried to create when they appealed for a
tariff have been brought about without the
help of the politicians. If only there was
some reciprocal copyright agreement with
the United States the outlook would be
cheerful.
VANCE PALMER.
Pendennis and Mount Marunga
I feel sorry that Harrison Owen cannot
read “Pendennis,” because “Pendennis” is a
book of books, and, like the ancient shep-
herd’s crook, divides the sheep from the
goats. The sheep never did like it, never
admitted that they were willing to read it;
but to the goats—well, it was so close and
intimate and honest and unsparing that
every goat got his own picture there: the
picture of himself in the priggish days when
he so narrowly missed settling down as a
sheep. I am not saying that "The Mount
Marunga Mystery” is not a great hook; I
am not implying that any of its pages could
be called dull. There may he a wealth of
hidden artistry there which the future will
discover or brimming wells of wisdom that
only the coming super-man can fathom. All
things are possible to the sheep; and the
poor goats must be forgiven if their under-
standing of these Tilings is limited. No,
it is not a matter of words, The greater or
lesser number of words could make no dif-
ference to a classic work like “The Mount
Marunga Mystery.” But the goats are
hardly up to such flights of modern fiction.
We still need a little grace and lightness
about our diet, even if we mix it with
thistles. Poor old Pen, poor old Major, poor,
dear Laura! Thank Heaven none of
you ever got to Mount Marunga! The
chief faults of “Pendennis” are, of
course, an accurate and careful char-
acterisation, a subtle and delicate humor
and a philosophy of life which gets
to closest grips with reality. Naturally all
these have been outgrown by the greater
novelists of to-day. The light play of fancy,
the brightness of observation, the large,
human, rhythmic movement of a plot which
always convinces—what are these by com-
parison with the great mystery of a pub-
lisher fighting for words and an author
shovelling them in in classic masses to
satisfy the demand? I suppose poor Thackeray
must go now, but some of us may still cling
to tattered copies, finding in every page a
greater joy than the best sheep of them all
finds in the excitement of Mount Mar-
unga and the two adjoining electorates. I
tender my apologies, but we goats are made
like that.
C. O. M.
“Gilrooney”
The Gipsy Road and Other Fancier, by
R. J. Cassidy (Judd Publishing Co., Syd-
ney), is a little book of prose and verse
which deserves the good word. The appeal
of the verses is very direct; and there are
quaint bits of philosophy and parables
breathing the spirit of Labor in its desire
for social and political reform. If there is
very little in the volume which is of more
than passing interest, there is very little
that is not worth a careful reading. Ap-
parently the author had no intention of
making a volume of poems ; indeed, there is
not a line that in any strict sense could be
called poetry. But the work is not to be
despised on that account. It is good special
pleading, with force and honesty behind it.
The Gipsy Road is perhaps a little mis-
leading as a title. There is no dainty
sauntering along the flowery byways of the
world, no pausing to laugh with Bill or
flirt with Mary, no glamor of moonlight or
sense of wide green places. Cassidy’s
march is the tramp of the ploughman up
and down the furrows; and that is a very
good tramping. The thought and emotion
do not wander; they keep very strictly
within the boundaries of the paddock. It is
not a light heart that sings, nor is it a
heavy heart; a stout heart it may be. The
prose is, on the whole, better than the
verse, and often more poetical. Cassidy
commits the offence of writing in the ver-
nacular and suddenly twisting off into the
stately old English of fable; but he gener-
ally covers up the join with enough padding
to take off the jar.
Measured by the standard of his first pub-
lished volume, The Gipsy Road does not
represent Cassidy at his best or at anything
like his best; hut for its purpose and in its
place the little collection of rhymes and
preachments is worth while.
All Nebuchadnezzar’s Fault
The second volume is to hand of that
learned and stupendous work, History of
Zionism, 1600-1918, by N. Sokolow. It is
less interesting to the outsider than the first
volume, because it is less historical, but it
must appeal to the Hebrew scholar and
patriot. It and most other Hebrew writings
might be put under one heading, How
Nebuchadnezzar Upset the Beehive. Pales-
tine is to us the country of the Hebrews,
though Canaanites of various sorts were
there before them, and built the towns that
the Hebrews lived in, for the early Hebrews
were no great builders. It is said that even
in historical times a monument stood in
what is now Morocco with the inscription
“We are the Canaanites who were driven
out by the Jewish robber Joshua.” And
the Philistines, supposed to he a white race
from Crete, were in the Holy Land before
the Hebrews, and invented the alphabet.
Still Palestine, especially southern Pales-
tine, is the historic Hebrew land, and the
Chosen People were content to dwell there,
a small, rather isolated agricultural race,
neither merchants nor artisans nor miners
nor seafarers, and not even very strenuous
about their own religion, until Nebuchad-
nezzar, son of Nabopolossar. upset the bee-
hive. In doing so he made world-history
by scattering the bees.
Less is known of Nebuchadnezzar than of
any other great historic conqueror—-for
Sesostris, the Egyptian, is back among the
legends—but he certainly dragged the
Hebrews out into the world, and Titus,
the Roman, completed the process. Now
there are probably ten times more of
this strenuous race than there would
have been if they had been left in
their own tiny country as they de-
sired, for their scrap of territory couldn’t
hold many people. Persecution made them
fixed in their religion just as it has done
with the Irish. The insane pride of land-
owners who held that none but a proud
Christian should feed pigs and shovel
manure, drove them from agriculture to
trade and finance. The fact that they were
long shut, out of their land made that land
one of the distant hills that look green.
The Hebrew, if left alone, might have been
in the same category as the Basque of nor-
thern Spain. Being interfered with, and
resenting interference as any high-spirited
race would do, he became a world problem.
The problem began with Nebuchadnezzar,
the Babylonian mystery-man who upset the
beehive in a casual moment. And its latest
development is Volume 11. of the History of
Zionism. (i.ongmans, Green and Co.)
A Satchel of Books
Felicity, by Katherine Harrington (George
Allen and Unwin). An insane sort of book,
but harmless. Felicity is a pretty servant
who marries a noet on nothing a year. He
gets £4O for a comic song. There are other
matters in the yarn, but none more im-
portant than these.
The Man with the Lamp, by Janet Lang
(Dent, London). The man is James Car-
ruthers, and he is using the lamp in connec-
tion with investigations in Crete; but the
real centre of the book is Mrs. Abercrombie,
a joyous and eccentric person who should
take a high place among the humorous charac-
ters of modern fiction. All the Scotch
people in the book are good and the yarn is
excellently told, though the lamp itself goes
a bit smoky. Well worth reading.
“The Earl Loreburn,” as the ex-Lord
Chancellor calls himself in his prim, precise
way, has written How the War Came to
explain what it is that is depriving him of
his sleep and all enjoyment in his meals.
He has had four years to think the matter
over, and sees now how the collision that
foggy night might have been prevented. Bri-
tain, he says, had ambled into a position of
half-alliance with France which was neither
one thing nor another. If it had been a
whole alliance and Britain had dashed down
the statement, like a pound of cheese on the
counter, that attack on France was equiva-
lent to attack on Britain, there would have
been no war. Considering the cheerful
fashion in which Germany later “took on”
the United States this is doubtful. On the
other hand, so Lord Loreburn thinks, if
Britain had said it would in no case come
in, Russia would have delayed its mobilisa-
tion, and again there would probably have
been no war. But as against that it is pos-
sible that Russia, when it saw a great Aus-
trian army gathering on its border and knew
that Germany was giving Austria at least
moral support, would have rushed its
forces together even if all the world was
against it. Secret diplomacy, as Loreburn
says, is a bad thing. Yet if the country had
been consulted, say, in 1911, about a treaty
with France on the ground that Germany
was liable to break its solemn pledges to
Belgium and seize the gateway to England
without cause or notice, every Loreburn in
the country would have said tne insult was
so gross as to be almost a declaration of
war in itself, and probably the Ministry
would have gone out in disgrace. It is easy
to be wise after the event. It is even easier
to seem to be wise. (Methuen and Co.).
A Treasury of English Prose, edited by
Logan Pearsall Smith (Constable). No two
men would make the same selection of blooms
for his posy, with the vast field from
Chaucer to Henry James to roam over; and
if there are thousands that one misses, one
can at least say there are none here that
one is not the better for having had gathered
for him. Yet if the book is to help the
modern writer in the matter of style, it is
doubtful whether it was worth while giving
so much of Donne and Jeremy Taylor and
other old preachers.
The Inky Way
“B.”: “Soldiers and Sportsmen,” issued
by the A.I.F. Sports Control Board, and
described (Red Page 15/1 /’2O) as “an in-
valuable book of reference,” is the work of
G. H. Goddard, a young man on the Sydney
D.T. staff, recently back from the wars.
“D.M.W.” replies:—
Kenneth Slessor’s quotation from “Man anci
Woman” does not in any way improve his case. The
verses he quotes, although torn from their con-
text in a manner which is unfair, are good blank
verse, not in any way answering to the description
he gave of Zora Cross’s work. There is no question
of “force” or “color” or “poetry” involved here.
The question was whether Mr. Slessor fairly and
honestly described the form of a writer’s verse; and
the fact stands that he did not.
“An Old Chap”: “Student,” jvho com-
plains about the by-laws of the Mitchell
Library (B. 15/l/’2O), might have gone
further and insisted that the trustees should
supply bottled beer and cigars. Does he
know that at the British Museum no visitor
is allowed into the reading-room without
possessing a reader’s ticket, and that there
a form has to be filled in for the books
wanted for study or reference? The regula-
tions of the British Museum were adopted
for the Mitchell Library in accordance with
the condition imposed by the benefactor
when making the bequest. The receipt for
books used is one safeguard against the
book thief. The same precaution is taken at
the big libraries of Paris, New York, Wash-
ington, Glasgow and elsewhere.


Cj
3"
*
70
m
<tn
M
r—
tn
8
TJ
-n
H
cn
2
*i
§
OLSELEYS’
are
Gads
cIOcZIIb
Motorists and prospective motorists
have long been awaiting a definite
announcement regarding the arrival in
Australia of post-war models of the
“Wolseley” Car.
Whilst the first shipment of “Wolseley”
Cars has not yet arrived, it is expected
at an early date, and “Wolseley”
Agents are now booking advance
orders.
Prospective purchasers are urged to
place their orders without further
delay, and so minimise risk of disap-
pointment.
Post-war “WoJseley” models compare
more than favorably in price with cars
of other makes. They are equipped
with the most wonderful system of
suspension springing yet devised; the
high-grade quality of the Vickers
steels used throughout their construc-
tion ensures for the owner the smallest
possible expenditure for repairs, whilst
their unique ratio of power to weight
make them the most economical high-
grade cars in the world to run.
The post-war “Wolseley” models will
be known under the following heads.
The “Wolseley” Ten (formerly Stellite).
The “Wolseley” Ten marks a most decided advance in “runabout” design, and is equipped with
advantages hitherto associated with cars much higher in price. It is easy to handle, speedy,
reliable, requires the minimum of attention, is decidedly economical in upkeep cost, and DEVELOPS
O VER 20U»P»
The “Wolseley” Fifteen (as illustrated above).
Although an entirely new model the “Wolseley” Fifteen retains the various excellences of design
which have made the Wolseley famous, differing only in certain modifications whose value has
been learned by experience in building aero engines and fine naval mechanism during the war period
In speed, flexibility, lull-climbing power and riding comfort the “Fifteen” has no peer whilst the
ample reserve of power always available makes "
The weight of the “Wolseley” Fifteen complete is
the power-weight, ratio being nearly 3h.p. to the
The “Wolseley” Twenty S
Despite the high renown which six-cylinder “W
ieliability the post-war model will be found a disimci euvance on its predecessors
o"»mVrfa°d d con“ j,tace. ry r ' SP<!Ct ' *° * te gr * atCSt dutiful, and'offering the aemo
The “Wolseley” Twenty DEVELOPS OVER 60H.P.
"Wolseley” Agents will gladly furnish fullest particulars of any “ Wolseley” post-war model on request.
t a dengnttul car to handle.
23cwt., and the engine DEVELOPS OVER AOH.P
cwt.
ix-cylinder Model De Luxe.
ilseleys” have ever held for power, smoothness and
REPRESENTATIVES:
VICTORIA—
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
644 Bourke St., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—
F. H. Gordon & Co., Ltd.,
133-7 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
H. C. Richards, Ltd.,
64 Bindley St., Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND—
G. W. Spragg, Auckland.
Inglis Bros., Wellington.
Bett & Bayly, Palmerston North.
Wintringham & Mitchell, Blenheim.
WOLSELEY MOTORS, LIMITED. Head Office for Australia: 125 William Street, Melbourne.
Proprietors: VICKERS, LTD. Works: Adderley Park, BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.


fIKM
You will find fhe besf possible
advice fo Sheepowaers.
Art/3y%KWU4t4/.
That Car Radiator
is Always Giving
Yon Trouble.
*>
iPI
Why uot send it
to Brandt’s, who
will put it in A 1
order or mak*
you a new one?
We also make Motor-car Acetylene
Generators, Lamps, Carburetter Floats,
etc.
Best Swedish Carbide stocked in all
Granulations.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
“Radiator Manufacturers,”
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Wil'iiam'l
•Talc Powder*
’.CARNATION
ll! 1 ", ;••>'’
MU! HI
r
Williams 1
Talc Powder
CftRNATION
rv.
a
N€l VVT 4 01
Soft, gently
soothing, com-
forting and
refreshing WIL-
LIAM’S CARNA-
TION TALCUM
POWDER posses-
ses a delicate fra-
grance and distinc
tive charm which
instantly appeals.
The convenient
hinged cover Top
prevents leading
and retains the de-
lightful perfume
in all its freshness.
You will find William’s
Violet English Lilac.
Rose, Matinee (new) eq.
ually refreshing, whilst
“William’s” Baby Talc
(without odor) is the ideal
Powd r for Babias.
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
A trial sample tin
will be sent
post free
from
‘William’s’
Box 98
G.P.0.,
Sydney, on
receipt of
one
two-penny
stamp.
W 1
MARTIN’S PILLS
are Isold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
I genuine with the signature;
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
ghk
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
ghk
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIItKj 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
“A.W.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
Gilbert Lodge & Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Rittle Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:—
A SCOTT & CO., 1«1 Edward Street, Brisbane. .....
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
Whi| do I use PLUME?
“Because it enables me to get more
and better service out of my car.
Because it ensures easy starting,
sweet running, more miles.”
That is the answer thousands of
motorists would give to the ques-
tion, “Why do you use Plume?’
Plume users speak highly of the
results obtained, and our files con-
tain very flattering testimony of its
efficiency under varied conditions.
Plume users have been remarkably
successful in recent Reliability Con-
tests in several States. Full partic-
ulars can be obtained free upon
request to our nearest Branch.
Try Plume next time.
When ordering just ask for Plume
—don’t say Benzine
P 23
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd
HP*
mi
\\ :
*
Does This Interest You?
The Lightning
Package Packer
will accurately pack 1000
packages per hour:—Self”
raising Flour, Corn Flour,
Cocoa & Powdered Materials.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues.
Schumacher
Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.
Port Melbourne, VICTORIA.
RER
k'.poht
m ?
S9hC£
Business, Robbery, etc.
Maoriland agricultural showdom is excited
over the "heaviest ox on earth.” Hazlett, of
Salisbury, claims the title with a beast
weighing 33001 b.; another poddy, shown at
Invercargill, went 31801 b. In the absence
of anything more mountainous, llazlett’s pet
is bellowing for the ribbon.
“Lou”: All this talk about the I.W.W.
being responsible for go-slow is moonshine.
Before the war I saw two men get the sack
from an English shipbuilding yard. They
had been carrying a plank around for six
years before being found out.
n * * *
A Forbes (N.S.W.) housewife got good
value for her money when she bought a bag
of sugar at a local store the other day.
Embedded in the sugar she found a full
set of false teeth. Many a man has got
a sweet tooth, but it took a woman to pro-
duce a whole set.
* *• » #
“Araminta”: I had heard of the man who
takes the mat from the front door, goes
to the rear and sells it to the housewife to
put at the kitchen exit; now I have met
a travelling craftsman who. after unravel-
ling the binding from a good mat, rang the
bell and offered to do the necessary repairs
for ninepence.
The Laborites on Port Melbourne Council,
weary of declaiming against the profiteer,
are getting considerable support from
other municipalities in an effort to establish
and control depots where primary pro-
ducers could send their goods to be sold
by auction. That will be a start, anyway,
at cutting out the middlemen; but until the
depots organise a system of distribution it’s
not going to mean either good prices for the
grower or cheap food for the consumer.
“A.M.S.”: I wish Webster had adopted
“H.P.’s” suggestion to have detachable butts
on Commonwealth postal-notes. When in
Sydney last June I posted a letter to a rela-
tive in Tasmania. It was in the lvyogle
mail which was looted by a young seaman.
He was arrested with about 150 p.n.’s in
his possession, but as I had not kept a record
of the numbers of the ones I sent I lost
my money. There must be tens of thousands
of pounds of unclaimed p.n. money.
“Naming”: Shortage of supplies of Aus-
tralian wine for British consumption is
responsible for the recent formation of an
English co. to develop tin* industry, intro-
duce our wines into Northern Europe and
hold markets which were the commercial
property of Germany prior to the war. An
experimental shipment which left some
months ago was disposed of at a price that
exceeded every hope. The chief control in
the new co. is in the hands of business men
who know the Australian wine market well,
and its success is certain if supplies can be
maintained.
* * * *
Its imagination stirred at last by the
statement that the cinematograph-film trade
now stands fifth in importance among the
national industries of the U.S.A., London
has formed the Alliance Film Corporation,
capital one million. The seven directors,
who include De Freee (chairman) and
Gerald DuMaurier, undertake to employ
only British actors and authors, though, to
make a start, some American “producers”
may be brought in. The 995,000 pref. shares
of £1 each take the first 10 p.c. of the pro-
fits, and half of anything over. The other
half —if it exists —will go to the 100.000
deferred shares of one shilling, all of which
have been subscribed by the directors. This
is an old London promotion trick which
every boom witnesses and every sound
authority reprobates.
* * * * •
“Canuck”: If, instead of talking about
“increasing production,” the political brass-
hats would tackle the problem of distribu-
tion. the Digger would have a better time
on the land, and there would be more of
him. Lately a Gippsland returned soldier
sent 5001 b. of green peas to a city agent to
sell. They were sold in Victoria Market,
and the Argus of that date reported peas as
bringing from 2s. to 3s. 6d. per dozen pounds.
As his were a good sample he expected at
least 3s. a dozen, and when he got a cheque
for IJfS. for the lot he thought hard. As he
had paid for the bags and 7s. a hundred
for picking the vegetables, he ploughed the
rest in.
DIGNITY AND RRVERENUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The recent acquisition of a six-cylinder motor-
hearse lias further enhanced the dignity and rever-
ence of our funerals.” — Undertaker’s ad.
W ith dignity and reverence I write this little verse —
The triumph of six cylinders in our new motor-
hearse.
The gloomy burnt-corked funeral steeds are not de-
parted yet,
Nor yet the vehicle they drew, the hearse of hue
brunette,
With a top-hat for the driver, and a roof of roosters’
tails,
And the cheerful undertaker to discount the mourners’
wails;
There are still the rusty weepers, and the crape and
bombazine,
And the air of solemn sorrow, and the abject, humble
mien.
There are still the crawling cortege and the mer-
cenary gloom.
And the port-wine and the seed-cake, and the furni-
ture of doom;
And the horses slow to anger, and much disinclined
to roam,
Going out like weary snails, but almost always
cantering home.
Now we show you how your grandpa can be ex-
pedited hence,
With all of our six cylinders producing reverence;
A carburetter dignified, an incense-like exhaust,
And a ride at thirty miles an hour for him whose
life is lost.
And the horn says never “Honk! Honk!” but in-
tor.eth “Let us pray,”
And dirty little boys can’t steal a joyride night or
day;
The street dogs never bark at us, the dead are well
content
To ride within the hearse that’s dignified and
reverent.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


5«
)
Ms
y
& ■
mm
SmMS
A-
X
r 0:
w&
IIP
"tali
r?^
•••.' ":
o
mm
y
&£&
i
....tfci
FOR
W%P*.
ill
HIRE
m
V'*(
SK!
■
*
s
■
- ■
w
M
,
rmm
fPW
mm
H»«e
■Vs«
.> V o^v?
m
i.y
: ? y>m M'j-
,
FARE
;:k
l
m
m
■:
*1;
1
.■' '... - . ' ■ .
< r
■
V . ■
mk
m.m
m mm
/ { l
’ ■' S
. ■« i*& i
w
•O'
i l
/
$0 * >
K&gg
iiiS
:.v: v
.0
■•A .
«it sfc*'
■
. 4 * Y*%. •
1 |H§
5*
fi
:
V'.'j'*'-
;
ms
Perdriau
Tyres
Satisfy
the Taxi Driver
THE Private Hire Man and the
Taxi Driver watch tyre mileage
carefully.
Running cars for their living, mileage
intimately affects their earnings.
Neither guesswork nor theory has any
place in their estimation of tyre values.
They are essentially practical men, and
their judgment can be accepted as sound.
Here we reproduce the opinion of a lead-
Sydney Hire Garage on Perdriau Tyres.
Obtainable from your Garage or the Manufacturers
Perdriau Rubber Co*, Ltd*
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
DOLPHIN STREET (near aquarium) COOGEE
TELEPHONES
36 8
36 9
RANDW.ICK
kjlf
fk
jhl
TELEPHONES
368
369
RANDWIOK
October 7th
McLEOD'S HIRE GARAGE
Uossrs Perdriau Rubber Co,
270 George Street, Sydney
1919,
(WHERE THE GOOD
CARS ARE).
Accessomc
Bear Sira,
The 920 E 120 covers we purchased from you have
given very satisfactory results. So far they have covered
5000 miles on the rear wheels of a Mitchell Six & have
outworn higher prioed imported tyres hy 1000 miles.
As you know, we have a very extensive hire business
running eleven cars, and have not only used every tyre in the
market but our business necessitates our keeping a very
careful record of each cover, and we are satisfied that
Eerdriau tyres offer the best value worked out on the cost
per mile.
Yours Faithfully,
McIEOBS HIRE GARAGE.
mmmm
1
I
IL
mmmn
m
m


ffolcyrcuf
ffasiery
to
Holeproofs are made by
scientific methods, de-
veloped only in recent
years.
COearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of always having
perfect Hosiery soft,
neatly-fitting, stylish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“ HOLEPROOF ”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multiply their
durability.
If your dealer cannot supply
you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
50 York Street :: Sydney.
THE. GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading Hotel.
It
Gy
WfH
A Few Minutes
aDayfor a Good
Complexion
IS it worth that to you?
There is a simple, sure
way that costs little and
if followed regularly will
bring results.
Try this simple formula-
*'A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks beforo
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
powder over all.”
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
make.s the skin like velvet
Price 2/- per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Eleaya Cold Cream, 4/(J.
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Crime
ICAYA
111'"*-
'JC
i Mil
/y
m,
gh
Puts New Life
Into Your Motor Car
THERE is nothing so annoying as en-
gine trouble, and 80 °Jo of it is caused
by Carbon. That knocking and loss of
power, extravagant use of fuel and slow
response to the throttle are due to just one
thing —carbon in your cylinders. Clean
them out with
if!
and your car will run as it did the first month—
quietly and full of life.
Five minutes’ time is all it requires. Simply
pour an ounce of Carbon Remover into each
c ylinder through the spark plug opening. Allow
it to stand 30 to 45 minutes. Then start your
c lgine and watch the cloud of carbon come out
through the exhaust. You can minimize carbon
accumulation by adding
4 ounces of Carbon Re-
mover to each 10 gallons
of petrol you use.
Safe and Guaranteed
Johnson’s Carbon Remover is
excellent for any type of engine.
It cannot injure the metal in any
way, does not affect the lubrica-
tion or injure the oil in the crank
case. Thousands of letters in
our files bear testimony of the
wonderful results obtained from
Johnson’s Carbon Remover.
Buy a trial tin from your dealer.
Ask him also about Johnson’s
Prepared Wax, a beauty polish
for your motor and Johnson’s
Radiator Cement for leaky radi-
ators. If you have any difficulty
in obtaining Johnson’s Products
write to us.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Rent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A n b v
REMOVkR :i
~ - ’\H s> 6 U Af» A* III' *•
>'.L *r\ £~s Ik,? c~ iT\ t-j V *•> > • : : :P
: f - •• ! O H M’S ON i : 0
■■■ Ei
raft «mi
SMOIH®
m
n
vy
: V-
V
USTRAUAn
f Royvl**^
MlLU."' n
Wl
Table Waters,;
CLEAR, COOL,
SPARKLING.
Contains Lime,
Soda, Lithia and
Magnesia.
Agents:
E. ROWLANDS
PROPTY. LTD.
Purveyors to
Vice-Royalty.
This ominous note bears date January 12:
To the Jack who has been writing about me. X
am still alive and quite well. Please let me know
where I can meet you. I guess you must be the
Jack that gave me a black eye w-hen I had the
ratchets on at Charleroi. — Broncho.
One of the strangest criminals on record
was that man who lately stabbed tbe man-
ager of a Sydney cafe because there were
no poached eggs. An almost equally strange
magistrate fined him £5, which was a great
deal too little for a stabber and quite inap-
propriate for a homicidal lunatic.
Not even in the Melbourne land-boom year
(1888) were so many land transactions
registered in Victoria as the Titles Office put
through last year. In the 12 months 52,(j92
applications were lodged, or 13,322 more than
in the year before the lid blew off. But of
course there is no boom now. There never
is a boom till it bursts.
The Taits have sold Allan's Chambers
in Collins-street to the National Bank
next door for £30,000. which works
out at about £l4OO a foot. A while back the
enterprising brethren were offered the Old
Exchange, but apparently oblivious of its
growing value as a bank site they turned
the bargain down. Subsequently it went to
the Commonwealth Bank at a price much
loftier than the brothers had considered.
“Bars and Stripes”: Many newspaper-
readers were puzzled by a statement in the
cables that when the kindly-hearted Sheriff
Peters, of Chicago, forced convicts to witness
a hanging as a deterrent, they all roared
“When do we eat?” Toughy, who has had
his share of trouble, assures me that the
saying is derived from a parody current in
such circles which converts the old hymn
“In the sweet by-and-bye we shall meet on
that beautiful shore” to “We shall eat”—
said eating to be done in a sort of convict’s
paradise.
Clergy of Melbourne diocese received poor
encouragement to volunteer for service from
Archgaiters Clarke, and those who went were
not overwhelmed on their return. Six young
chaplains—three enlisted as privates—were
curtly informed recently that there were no
vacancies. They packed their kits, and neigh-
boring bishops of patriotic tendencies wel-
comed them. Dr. Clarke is a contradiction in
a shovel hat. His large placard at the Cathe-
dral entrance shouts “Welcome to Returned
Soldiers”; but if they wear his own cloth
he is liable to stun them with the collec-
tion-plate.
Big Dave Oman, Minister for Agriculture,
is apparently the member of the Vic. Cabinet,
who does not count. Gaud Mayor Aikman
having complained that the State Ministry
did not think it worth while to be repre-
sented at the civic reception to Monash, it
was protested that Oman was present, but
had to stand outside the council-chamber
door while the oratory was flowing. And
only a few weeks ago Watt was pitching into
the Lawson Cabinet for not sending a Min-
ister to Williamstown to see a vessel
launched, wh%n George Wise nudged him and
pointed to Oman.
Of 327 patients admitted to the Westralian
Sanatorium for Consumptives Jast. year over
one-third were underground men. Many of
these, according to the medical superinten-
dent, don’t give in until physically incapable
of carrying on, and even then great diffi-
culty is experienced in getting them to enter
the institution. There is an urgent need in
the West for farm-homes for men in the early
stages of the complaint. If they remain in
the mines the number of victims is likely to
increase at an appalling rate.
“Hobo”: The opinion of “Yeronga” (B.
18/12/T9) re the lack of knowledge of
geography on the part of the Australian
kid is confirmed in the Ma State by the
results of the last Q.C. exam. Of 600 geog.
papers I marked, only 3 per cent, scored
more than half. Here are three good rea-
sons: (1) Overloaded syllabus; (2) 'big
classes due to dearth of teachers and anti-
quated accommodation; (3) official igno-
rance of the capacity of 11-year-olds. When
the official mind requires youngsters of 11
to know the world generally, the British
Empire in detail, with corresponding map-
ping, and then expects candidates to draw
maps of Brazil and Argentine, and to dis-
cuss the influence on Australian rainfall of
cyclones, anti-cyclones and V-shaped depres-
sions, is it to be wondered at that the kid
furnishes such answers as: “The capital of
Italy is Roam on the Tigress,” and “there
is an arteashan boar in Adelaide”?
“ J.B.’s” yarn :
The extraordinary somersault of an oil-launch—
she turned stern over bow—on a N. S. Wales North
Coast beach recalls an adventure I had in Picton
Sounds (M.L.). I picked up a man who was running
the mails by launch. He knew two things well
—Banjo Paterson and crib, and I had a smat-
tering of them. One night in a half-gale we anchored
in a bay facing Cook Strait, and in the cabin we
played 15-2, 15-4 and one for his nob, and recited
in between “There’s another horse fell down!”
until we awoke to the fact that we were at sea.
We had lost our anchor and were adrift. I give
you my word that being adrift in Tasman Bay
in weather is no afternoon-tea on the Terrace.
And be cursed if the oil-engine would work! We
finally gave it best and bunged everything in the
way of burnables—books, ' spare clothes, etc —into
an oil-drum and set ’em alight. Just when we
thought that we’d have to put the huff in the bucket
the Nelson-Wellington ferry picked us up. It was a
great night; but don’t send me an oil-launch for a
birthday present.
“K.K.”: The fare on our transport—a
Maorilander —hadn’t been up to much for
some days; but when one of the officers’
orderlies came with tales of the tasty mutton
he’d gorged while we were gnawing biscuits
and chewing indiarubber bull, Mullins had
an inspiration. In the middle of our next
meal down came the orderly-officer. “Any
complaints?” he inquired, plying the old for-
mula monotonously as he strolled past each
table. Most of the chaps were fed up with
complaining, and nothing was said till he
reached Mullins, who promptly answered,
“Yes. sir!” “What’s wrong to-day, corporal?”
“Soldiers’ Hymn Book, hymn number 22,
first line, first verse,” replied Mullins with-
out a smile. The lieut. was a sport, and
made a memo in his notebook. Next day at
mess we reaped the benefit of Mullins’s
brain-wave, for hymn number 22 in the
Soldiers’ Hymn Book opens with those four
beseeching words, “We too like sheep.”


STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
Be Sure to Say
“Threaded Rubber.”
If everybody said “Threaded Rubber
Insulation” when they bought batteries,and
saw to it that “Threaded Rubber” was what
they got, there would be a lot less battery
grief.
—Far fewer jobs of reinsulation that is
so often necessary to get full life out of the
plates of an ordinary battery.
—Assurance of longer battery life.
If your battery is getting to the point
where it shows signs of quitting, it will pay
you to get on the track of Threaded Rubber.
STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
%
2*
A
0
*
%
G
60


SUFFERED WITH
PIMPLESAYEARS
Also Blotches On Face. Caused
Disfigurement. Cuticura Healed.
"I suffered withpimples and blotches
on my face. I had it about four years
t* *?
and in hot weather the pim-
ples became very irritating.
Generally they came to a head
and festered. These pimples
caused a good deal of disfig-
urement at times and when I
perspired they smarted a lot.
“I then sent for Cuticura Soap
end Ointment and found they afforded ]
me great relief and in a few days
the pimpleß were entirely removed.”
(Signed) S. Flood, Ethel St., Harris
Park, N. S. W., Feb. 6, ’l7.
Keep your skin healthy by using
Cuticura Soap daily for the toilet, and
Cuticura Ointment for first signs of
pimples, redness or roughness.
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towna &. Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
ĥj
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
r ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
CASH
;)\\ DRESS
I h 10./
vK\
Add a Finish
and Wash Well
They are a boon to all for the attrac-
tive trimming of brocks
(especially children s), Kimonos,
Dressing Jackets, Bathing Suits,
Blouses, etc. Supplied in a large
Variety of Artistic Embossed Wo-
ven Designs in Fast Color. Sup-
plied in various widths.
For Marking Linen —U*e
CASH’S Woven NAMES
Sold by All 2?ea/ ‘Drapers
J.&J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
<£>
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you
FOR WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A Stein & Co., Chicago.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
/ Taiflanks-Morse
' ' G"Feed Grinder
Ground Feed Makes Better Stock
hk
ghk
G
mo
GQINDIR
ruktuua, *o*st • ca
YOU KNOW the value of
ground feeds—you know
you can save feed by grind-
ing your grain—that your hogs
and steers will fatten faster —
that your horses can do more
work—that your cows will
give more milk.
A “G” Feed Grinder not only puts
the grain in the best condition for
feeding, but should save you more
than its original cost the first year.
It is especially adapted for grinding
small grains. Mixed grains or ear com
are ground fine in one operation.
For Grinding All Grains
With each grinder are furnished five
plates for grinding dry grain or shelled
corn very fine, and medium plates for grinding new or damp gram
and earn corn medium fine. The grinders ahd feed are always
under instant control.
The “G” Grinder may be equipped with an all-steel sacking
elevator or wagon box elevator on order. It is most successfully
driven by a “Z* 9 engine.
Langar, Gedye & Company, Ltd., Sydney.
James Wardle & Company, Adelaide.
James Bartram & Sons, Ltd., Melbourne.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Malloch Bros., Perth.
Donald & Sons, Ltd., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
hfjk
Foreign Dept.,
NEW YORK, U. S. A.
London. England
Buenos Aires. Argentina
IS
0.
C-YALE
HARK
mm.
©J
SBD
N
©
"Protect
Your Own
Castle
“An Englishman’s home is his
castle.” It is by tradition, im-
pregnable and free from in-
trusion. Your home can be
equally secure, and complete
privacy maintained by the use of
Yale
Builders’ Locks and Hardware
With “Yale” on guard, you and
only you, with a key that was
made only for your lock, can open
your door.
There is a substantial beauty and
artistic finish to Yale Builders’
Locks and Hardware Door
Closers, Night Latches, and Cab-
inet Locks, that make them also
an ornament to your home.
The Trade-mark “Yale” is on all
of them, including Yale Padlocks,
Bank Locks and Chain
Blocks.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. COMPANY
New York Established 1868 U. S. A.
gkl
ghk
<yauD
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features: —
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rap'd
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olD.J.
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
G Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Scle Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
Ij. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Clarence Weber is settling in Adelaide.
The local “physical culture institute” of Shorthose
and Herbert dissolves partnership, and is to be
carried on by Weber, Shorthose and Rice as a
“health and strength college.”
“75”: A returned Billjim mentions that
on the way home after witnessing the Barry-Felton
rase he was walking behind a dejected Cockney.
“Who won?” inquired a damsel standing in a door-
way. “The same blighters wot won the war!”
growled the Cockney.
A question which has not yet been satis-
factorily settled is whether a jockey is a “worker”
within the meaning of Victoria’s Workers’ Compensa-
tion Act. There is so much doubt about the matter
that an owner or trainer cannot afford to leave him-
self unprotected ; but although insurance companies
accept these risks, at appropriately “fierce” premi-
ums, the dependants of a jockey have no guarantee
as to the amount they will receive in the event of
his death. The widow of one cross-country rider,
after considerable delay, succeeded in collecting
£250, but the relatives of a lad who was killed at
an unregistered meeting a while back got only £5O.
It is all a matter of bargaining. Counsel's
opinion, sought recently by the relatives of a jockey
who had been killed, was that the relationship of a
jockey and the citizen for whom he rides is not one
of “service,” and his employment- is “casual,” but
until there is a judicial pronouncement things are
likely to remain in their present unsatisfactory state.
At the Allied Army sports in Paris last
year the Canadians were strong favorites for the
bomb-throwing contest. When the numbers went
up, however, a U.S.A. man had won by a coat of
paint. “Hey!” cried the delighted winner. “Where
are your Canadian bombers now?” “Killed years
back,” was the immediate answer.
* * * *
The A.I.F. cricket team contains some
hefty smiters. Playing at Fitzroy, Murray, the S.
Australian, landed a ball on the adjacent bowling-
green —a straight drive of 154yds., the ball sailing
about 12ft. over the top of a stand 35ft. from the
ground. But the hit is not a record. Walter
Fellows, who for some years at St. John’s,
Toorak, whilst at Oxford drove a ball 175 yards
from hit to pitch. George Bonnor made some tre-
mendous hits in his day, but the legend that he (or
anyone else) once broke the clock at the Melbourne
Cricket Ground is unveracious. In a week-day
match at the M.C.C. Andrew Loughnan hit a ball
over the old stand (since burned down) into the
Richmond paddock. Playing on the East Mel-
bourne ground, Charlie Forrester, now treasurer of
the M.C.C., hit three balls over the fence into
Jolimont-road, in an innings in which he scored 54
runs in 15 minutes.
* « *■ *
“Hiphen” : Joe Beckett, so artistically put
to sleep by the scientific Carpentier, reminds me
greatly of our lamented champion Bill Squires. He
is a rugged hunk of humanity with a terrible kick
in both fists, not too much science but heaps of
heart. He goes for his man in the same tearing style
as our Bill was wont to do, and hits him through his
guard with Bill’s former wood-chopping stroke —fists,
elbows and shoulders. If the opposing gent, hasn’t
the strength of two bulls he grows greatly discouraged
and at an early stage of the proceedings lies down
and calls for a tin-hat' and knuckle-dusters. But
Beckett isn’t always the reckless buffalo. In his
Driscoll fight, with a wholesome respect for the
right-hook that Driscoll used to stock, he held off
for 17 rounds before he outed his man. He could,
1 am convinced, have done it in the first round.
An English rival to the Ford is being put
on the market. The Pullinger Engineering Co., of
London, is taking orders for an 8-h.p. two-seater
“Speedv” at 110 guineas. Weight, “under 6cwt.”
Mileage (alleged), 60 to the gallon.
“Lawe-lark”: Was scoring for a game of
snooker pool the other night when Smithy (an
assistant deputy-returnin<r-officer) dropped in and
commenced to watch the play. He wore the look of
a man who had not slept or laughed for weeks. After
a little while he glanced at the blackboard and
scanned the scores: A, 31 on; B, 29 on; 0, 4 on.
Immediately he was on his feet and in a ringing
official tone declared: “C can’t win! He drops out
and we’ll divide his second preference amongst the
other two.” He woke up just in time and reached
the door half a second ahead of the thick end of
C’s cue.
Joe Travers, the old inter-State left-hand
slow bowler of S. Aus., is now captain of the
Adelaide Cricket Club. He was a power for his
State for years, and once got into a test match, when
Saunders (Vic.) was unable to play. Though dropped
from the S.A. XI before the war, as a veteran, he
still holds his own in club matches. Helping his
team to beat Glenelg recently, he made 33 not out
and took seven wickets for 43.
J. G. Hammer, of the Adelaide Drive
Bowls Club, claims a record in never having missed
playing in a pennant match for his club during the
15 seasons he has belonged to it. He has won the
club championship three times, and twice got into
the final of the championship of S. Aus.
(Continued on page 38.)
THE CRICKET FAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’s rather old, the cricket fan,
With hair and eyebrows dyed ;
A leanish, purple-whiskered man
Who lets his business slide
To go and sit the whole day long
The cricket to acclaim.
His “Bravo, sir!” becomes a song.
“Well caught!”—to him there’s nothing
wrong
About the ancient game.
He falls asleep where thousands sit,
And mumbles in his dreams.
“Caught, caught, by Jove !” he cries. “Well
hit!”
Then starts awake, and beams
Upon his neighbors, and lie’ll beg
Vou’ll note that stroke- —’twas great!
It minds me of the way that Gregg
Hit little Willie Barnes to leg
In eighteen-sixty-eight!
The interval! His stumps he stirs
Straight to the bar to spin
Weird yarns of long-dead cricketers,
And drink his tot of gin.
“A topping interval,” he says,
And dodders to his place.
“It minds me in a-many ways
Of one we had here in the days
Of dear old Doctor Grace.”
He then applauds the empty green,
And ventures to declaim:
“There is no sport that man lias seen
That’s like the good old game.”
He claps and cries: “Well fielded, there!”
Recites the sacred “laws.”
The crowd goes home. He does not care.
The sweepers come at night, and share
Ilis generous applause!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
r
)
M
B.S.A. FITTINGS are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don’t be put off with
“pattern fittings,” but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
TRADEMARKS
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


A. Saunders’ Gent, s Nickel
Lever, 25/-, 80/-
Extra jewelled, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Ring, ISct.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover
King, ISct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Half-hoop
King, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5.
*•
mM
m
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch,
adjusted balance, £3/10/-
Extra jewelled, £4,
£4/10/-, £5, £6,
£7/10/-, £lO.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders' Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Cold,
£l2/10/-
. Saunders’ Single
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ four-
Diamond Bing,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Lever,
£3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6,
£7/10/-.
Solid Gold, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ dia-
mond and Pearl
Circle Brooch, loot.
Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15et. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Neck-
let, set Pearls and Aqua-
marines, £2/10/-
A. Saunders
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
luct. Gold
£2/10/-
Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
15ct., £2.
A. Saunders’ 9cf:. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold, plain, half-round Brace-
let, strong snap and safetv chain, 25/-
Wider, SO/-, £2, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5. 15ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Ladv’s black Wristlet Watch,
20/-, 25/-,' 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
Silver, £2, £2/10/-
Gold, £3/10/-, ?\J 10/-, £5, £6.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ double*cut Diamond Brooch,
Iset. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Ont.'s loot. Gold
Ring, set Aqua-
marine or
Tourmaline, £2.
A. Saunders’
9et. Gold Links,
daintilv engraved,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street Sydney.
A. Saunders’ !)et.
Gold Circle
Brooch, set Pearls
and Garnets,
A. Saunders’ fancy Pearl Cluster set Brooch,
A. Saunders*
Diamond
and Pearl
Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
25/-
A. Saunders’ !)et. Gold Xoek-
lct, set Pearls, £3/17/6.
-
p.
I .
m
m
m
aim <Hh arm
.m
After the dance or theatre —when
you reach home late and tired—that
is just when “Milkmaid” Coffee &
Milk proves its worth.
In a moment you prepare delicious,
creamy coffee with “ Milkmaid ”
and hot water only! No delay; no
trouble. No sugar; no milk required.
Indoors or out-of-doors, “Milkmaid”
Coffee & Milk is the handy prepar-
ation at all hours. You need
“Milkmaid” in your home.
Milkmaid COFFEE & MILK
<* a
/JucA,
-funi,.
Made by Nestle’s in Australia.


ghk
THAT
COMFORTABLE
FEELING.
ABBEY SHOES.
They are distinctive in appearance, and
fill every possible demand m wearing and
comfort-giving qualities.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby Bal.
PRICE 63/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf.
PRICE 52/6
Stocked in half-sizes and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
3iirlrari>
Golf and Tennis Coats of
Connemara and Donegal
Hand-woven Irish Tweeds.
Leather Buttons.
Burberry Rainproofs.
Sporting Norfolks.
Jlicliarti Jnmt &£o
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
ISusiness Notices.
'pHK “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
x and made in Australia, beats all the imported
lures. Irresistible tor perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting joy. Semi
2/-, P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” 561* Dowlii.c
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
Made
in
CANADA
I
‘ ■ • ■
PURE WOOD FIBRE
r.S’.
You can't expect
Beaver Board re-
sults unless this
Trade Mark is on
the back of the
board you buy.
This is the BEAVER BOARD Trade Mark
YOU will find it plainly printed on every panel of
this knotless, crackless, manufactured timber.
Beaver Board is the original pure wood fibre wallboard for artistic-
ally and permanently building new walls and ceilings, covering
cracked or shabby walls and ceilings in homes, offices, stores,
factories, churches, public buildings, theatres, etc.
Beaver Board keeps rooms warm in winter, cool and comfortable
in summer. It resists sound, shocks and vibration. It won’t crack,
chip, warp or become damp.
It is sized on both sides with a patented “Sealtite” process which
makes it moisture and vermin proof. It takes paint freely without
a primer. One or two coats are sufficient!
It is easy to put up easy to keep clean lasts a life time!
Look for the Beaver Board trade mark on the back of every panel
you buy, it is your safeguard for better walls and ceilings!
Beaver Board can be obtained from Timber Merchants and Builders’
Furnishers. See your local dealer!
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Canada London, England Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A,
Mills and Works in Canada and U. S. A.
Resident Representative, 0. D. GORDON, G. P. 0. Box 2408, Sydney, N. S. W.
Amusements.
llarry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
y IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
in
AS YOU WERE.
A Gorgeous Fantastic Revue of the Ages.
Plans at Nicholson's and the 'livuli.
•yiVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST REVUE SUCCESS,
ODDMENTS.
Prices as usual.
Clt I T E R IO N T II E A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Winchell Smith and Frank
Macon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
|_| E It M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. S Y 1) N E Y.
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE REVUSICAL COMEDY DE LUXE.
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
For the First Time in Australia.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
OKHVNMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND REST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS OF
EMELIE POiANI
in the English Comedy-Drama,
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL.
Plan Nicholson's. Day Sale White Rose.
IJ MON I* ICTt It E TIIISAT It IS »
THE PICK OF THE AVORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STItANI), GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HISIt MA.IISST VS Til ISA Tit IS, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.46.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
Til IS ATIt IS It OYA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON L ID.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, JANUARY 31.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
•he productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGUAPII, PATHIS,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
Amusement*.
K 1N(i ’ 8
Til EAT UK. At 15 M! O C H N 15.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan's.
HOYT’S THEATRICS. MICE HO URN fc
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKIC STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
TOM MIX iu
THE WILDERNESS TRAIL.
ALBERT RAY and ELINOR FAIE in
WORDS AND MUSIC BY
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
JACK PICKFORD
in
WRONG.
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
“jpIlE ALLA: WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
lIINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
INVERCARGILL, .TAN. 30; GORE, JAN. 31;
OAMARU, FEB. 3 and 4.
LACIARIU M, MEL B O U RN E.
jazzlpalais
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1 h
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tick'ts 3/6 ,
CRICKET.
A.I.F. v. N.>S.W.
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, January 31, February 2 and 3.
COMMENCING 11 A.M. EACH DAY.
Admission: Ground, 1/- (plus tax); Grand Stand, 1/- extra (plus tax).
FRANK IREDALE, Secretary,
N.S.W. Cricket Association.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management,
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T W, GARRETT. Public Trustee.
&
pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift i
C»m|iun> Kill.. Australasian .\cents. SO Clarence »t.. Sydney
"THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN ”
The
“JACKEROO”
RAINCOAT
This super weatherproof Raincoat for
country wear is acknowledged throughout
Australia as liaving no rival for protection,
freedom and comfort when walking or riding.
Strong double-texture Maeirtosh, has layer
of rub'er between the two layers of cloth,
rendering same absolu*e’y waterproof. Coat
is made suitable for riding, driving or walk-
ing, having a V-piece let in at back to cover
the saddle when riding.
These coats are covered by a twelve-months’
guarantee.
The “JACKEROO” will prove a good invest-
ment.
63/-
POSTAGE
EXTRA.
MhS3S>S
LIMITFD, BRISBANE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
r»,T«,m, ESTI ' S “ The Cin s Boys on Broadway”
I’tvm “The Little Damozel”
Hoyt's . .i) s • iou ,,^ tre
* on Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOAVS FOR COMING AVEEIv.
Her Majesty s “The Sleeping Beauty"
“Kissing Time”
i f “Mother nuboaoi"
n “Oddments”
! " it k Di: Luxe 4: Lvceim Moving riciures
«"“ T,C Moving Pictures
Bini axxia Moving Pictures
Glacluuum Dancing
“The Bing Boys on Broadway” continue
to rage at Sydney Majesty’s, and comedian
IJan Agar’s imitation oi a lied Indian’s
thirst is as good as ever. The brilliant
loot-gai den night-scene sets ti*e oniooker
wondering how an enterprise of that sort
would thrive in Sydney this dripping
summer.
* * *
The Palace (Sydney) keeps busy with
Kmelie Polim in “The Tittle Damozel,” and
producer Gregan McMahon is hereby encour-
aged to have a good opinion of himself.
“As You Were” begins to feel like the
oldest inhabitant of Castiereagh-street, and
the handsome salaries of the six Tivoli
beauties may have to go on for another 40
years. Comedian Bert Clarke has a good
deal to do with this latest success.
The aim of “Lightnin’” at Sydney Cri-
terion is to dispel the forces of Boredom and
Satiety and uphold Mirth (J. W. O’Hara)
and Beauty (Diaua Wilson). The contest
has been in progress nine weeks, and is now
entering on its most interesting stages. Any-
one who desires to view it can do so at the
usual prices, nightly (bar Sundays), and
twice weekly at matinees.
st; *
‘A Scream in the Night” is designed to
demonstrate the absurdity of the Darwin
theory. A girl called Darwa is sent in in-
fancy to live in a jungle and consort with
apes; and her nreference for ice-cream soda
and the silken undies of civilisation is sup-
posed to knock Darwin into a mush. Sydney
Strand shows the picture. At the Crystal
Palace Max Marcin’s “Cheating Cheaters”
goes its delightful way with Clara Kimbejl
Young as the prepossessing lady crook who
turns out to be a famous ’tec. The film
with the local interest is “The Man from
Kangaroo,” with Snowy Baker as the man:
but it has an odd tang now and then of
Yankeeland. Snowy catapults from cliffs on
to the backs of 90-mile-a-minute horses, and
dives and swims and uses his fists in the true
heroic fashion. Some of his feats of derring-
do have not been equalled even by the re-
doubtable Fairbanks. Brownie Vernon is the
fair damsel whom Snowy courts when the
exigencies of keeping the film moving allow
of it. Charming Mary Miles Minter graces the
same sheet in “The Intrusions of Isabel.” At
the Town Hall the Peace Treaty is signed
nightly under the patronage of Governor
Davidson and Brig.-General Lee.
* * $
“The Sleeping Beauty” is still at large
in Melbourne
Majesty’s with a
midget _ King and
an Irish Queen
hurrying into the
foreground at-
tended by a squad
of strangely-
apparelled
auxiliaries. So far
nobody has been
able to diagnose
the retinue, notice-
ably the Prime
Minister and his
daughter Agatha.
The uniform of the
King’s adviser sug-
gests a clash of the
fashions prevailing
among Tyrolean
peasants and Jap
ricksnaw coolies,
whilst the old boy’s
locks appear to
have turned white
with the anxiety of
discovering his pro-
per place in the
story. As for
Agatha, she has
some vague stand-
ing as a m a t ri-
monial candidate,
but the producer
“The Sleeping
Beauty," at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Margaret Sutcliffe as
Fairy Malevolence.
has ruined her chances of capturing the eye
of the Prince by hiding half the damsel’s
charm behind horn-rimmed spectacles.
Sr s): * #
Even Theodore Leonard is no longer able
to maintain “Theodore and Co.” in popular
affection at Melbourne Royal. To-morrow
(Friday) the over-rated entertainment will
be withdrawn, and the present commentator
trusts that the memory of it will be erased
by Saturday’s new production, “Kissing
Time.”
“Oddments” at Melbourne Tivoli has been
patched with some remnants of song from
previous shows. Also-the cast has been rein-
forced by Toby Claude, who turfis on her
abundant energy, presumablv with the
managerial hope that her colleagues will
catch her complaint. But this Tivoli crowd
demands sometoing more electrifying than
the volatile Toby. The Bulletin ventures
the suspicion that it needs another revue.
The business of bathing and putting Dud-
ley Hubbard to bed continues to be one of
the loudest shrieks in “Mother Hubbard”
at Melbourne King’s. The average feminine
eye is profoundly exhilarated by the inti-
mate and searching details of Dudley’s ablu-
tions, and there "is a gasp of expectancy
when Moth :• Lupino produces a familiar
triangle of baby wear only to defeat the
“THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY,"
AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Chief U-ka-lip-tus (Dan Agar) tempted by
the firewater of Tonka Bean (Carleton
Stuart).
hopes of the multitude by fastening the
article around Dudley’s neck. “Mother
Hubbard” works a lot of overtime with
these underclothing jokes. After seeing the
exhibitions, any man would be bored by a
suburban clothes-line on washing day.
Tom Mix holds Hoyt’s screen in Mel-
bourne this week in a new effusion, “The
Wilderness Trail.” It is the same old trail
to the long wiiite arms of an acquisitive
female, but Mix is a novelty with a pacific
nature that causes a great slump in the
gunpowder trade. Albert Ray, partnered
by Elinor Fair - , has an emotional equipment
strong enough for the agony of “Words and
Music by .” This quaintly-titled fea-
ture is the tale of a stolen opera in which
Ray as the composer depicts a lot of silent
suffering on his mobile countenance. Con-
stance Talmadge has had three days at the
Britannia relating all she knows of “The
Experimental Marriage,” and to-day “The
Wolf” will swing a bright light on the hard
life and artillery duels of the Canad’an
backwoods. The Melba’s menu glitters with
the names of J. Warren Kerrigan , and
Charles Chaplin in “One Dollar Bid” and
“The Property Man.”
_ Shows in Adelaide are very light. The
city is reaping the harvest of 'its reputation
for being very hot in summer, although the
evenings are really quite cool. There is a
good variety crowd at the Majestic, with the
Camille trio, as funny as they are clever;
and Victor Prince’s open-air show is at
Austral Gardens. In pictures West’s have
one _ more of the strong-man-of-the-Yukon
stories; at the Royal WLl'am Farnum has
several realistic fights in “The Man Hunter” ■
at Wondergraph William Hart also does
the heavy dramatic thing as a deceived hus-
band: and “The Lion’s Den’’ at the Pav.
shows how a parson went into business and,
of course, wiped out all competitors.
To the Hun the war was a passing unplea-
santness, with a few regrettable but inevit-
able incidents which all right-minded people
should now forget. Mosrovitch. a Russian
Jew, having made a brilliant first appear-
ance as Shylock at the Court Theatre. Lon-
don, has had flattering offers from managers
in Ber.in and Vienna to take the whole
company for a long season there and in
neighboring cities. They seemed surprised
and hurt when the idea was not entertained.
“McDaly”: The heads of the theatre and
picture industries are as bad as any group
of powdered actresses when it comes to pub-
licity. The J.C.W. men have their names in
all advts., and the film magnates are equally
greedy for LmeLght, their governing direc-
tors, managing directors and mere directors
all bemg featured. One him manager, when
he returned from Amenta, startled h.s Board
by demanding the title of president.
“Smike : Puccini, the Italian composer,
is toothcombing the English classics for suit-
able libretti. It is alleged that he sees
another winner in a musical version of “The
Old Cur.osity Shop'’ and also reckons there
is enough substance for an opera in “Much
Ado About Nothing.” And Giacomo is not
the only one who is borrowing stories from
Britain. One of his countrymen has
fastened some tunes to “The Cricket on the
Hearth.”
“T. 0.1.”: When “Sinn Fein” was pre-
viously in our mouths we spelt it as we
pronounced it: and that was 41) years ago.
On July 3. 1880, shortly before the theatre
was burned down, “the highly romantic Irish
Drama in four acts by John F. Poole, ‘Shin
l ane, or Shamrock Green.’ ” was produced at
the Victoria Theatre, Sydney. Grattan
Biggs, H. N. Douglas, Stirling Whyte, \V.
G. Carey and Lance Lenton, all now dead,
were in the cast.
“Drumstick”: When the N. S. Wales
State Orchestra was in Wanganui (M.L.) a
cry of anguish went up fiom one of the
town’s most confirmed musical enthusiasts —
an invalid, poor man! —because he might not
hear such music as Maori land had never
heard before. Friends scratched their heads,
and the idea came—try the telephone! A
wire was laid between the theatre and the
sick room, and there was no happier man
upon God’s earth on the night of the con-
cert than that invalid.
“Old Pot”: Lady Irving, mother of H. 8..
has come to light again. She has confided
her opinion that 11.8. would have shown his
fullest powers as the Russian monk Ras-
putin. H.B. was certainly best in character
work, and Judging by his Hyde in “Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” he would have made
the. ‘dirty dog” (free translation of “Ras-
putin”) a s .ik'ng study. But he began act-
ing too late to ever reach the dramatic
heights attained by tr's father; and in any
case it is doubtful if he *ould have been to
his father what Charles Bean was to his.
“N.L.”: “Dryblower” Murphy, who lias
been churning out good verse and pars for
Perth Sunday Times for 20 years, was
once in the bitter past a J.C.W. chorister.
He had. and his, a decent tenor, and was
in the chorus with the Teddy Lonnen Gaiety
crowd.-’ But “Dryblower’s ’ sing ng was only
a side-line ; his long suit was writing topical
verse and gags for the comedians. He used
to be sent ahead with the advance-agent to
snare local allusions. When he arrived in
Auckland from Sydney Murnby found t'
a big deficit in the Maoriland public accounts
had been miraculouslv turned into a satis-
fying surplus, so he wrote some jingle about
it, with this couplet:—
Be it understood
There’s a balance to the good.
This “went” with a bang on the onening
night, and Lonnen reproached Murphy
afterwards. “You should always underline
the points in these verses,” said he; “I had
no idea that line was going to be so effect-
ive.” ‘‘Righto!” said the amazed poet, and
it was not till after the show that he heard
that the name of Maoriland’s Treasurer was
Ballance.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Oscar Asche wants
to bring to a practical test the recent denun-
ciations of “filthy shows” by Lena Ashwell and
Sydney Valentine, the latter the chairman of
the Actors’ Association. Vague assertions of
that sort, Asche truly says, will never bring
about any reform of abuses if they really
exist. Let the reformers boldly name the
people who are running these “filthy shows ”
and he will subscribe £5OO towards the cost
of anv libel actions that may ensue. He
suggests that the associafon should publish
full details of the alleged scandals in its
own official organ, The Actor —that will
be the quickest way of killing stage-sweating
and stage nastiness. For his own part he
believes “the stage to-day is far cleaner
than it was 20 years aeo.” What ought to
be remedied is the reckless gambling in Lon-
don theatres that is going on. “The
theatres are now largely in the hands of
syndicates run by men who know nothing
of the art of acting and care less for the
welfare and happiness of the actors and
actresses.” To that Bernard Shaw replies
that Asche has no personal knowledge of
what he is talking about. He and other
West End managers are gentlemen and
artists “living in a cond’t’on of clo’stered in-
nocence.” It is in the lower theatrical
grades that these evils and abuses are to be
found—the nlaces where men take theatres
solely in order to make money at the bars,
and “woman whose real trade is prostitution
uses both the stage and the auditorium as her
shop window.”
“Stargazer”: It is not always a good
thing for an artist to get his (or her) oppor-
tunity. I have seen many performers in
many departments who have done excel-
lently when limited by judicious stage man-
agement, but have fallen hopelessly into the
broth when, after discovering themselves
favorites, they have been given their heads
and allowed to spread themselves all over
a show. The ex-
perience. instead of
bringing out excel-
lences, has served
only to expose de-
fects in a glaring
light. There
are few artists
w h o when per-
mitted to spread
do not run piti-
fully thin in the
process. Quite a
nice girl showing
in an inconse-
quent melodious
show had delightful
spots when held in
proper subjection,
but as leading ladv
unlimited is all
over the place, and
lias not one satis-
factory moment.
When there was
little of her she
amounted to a lot;
now there is a lot
of her she doesn’t
“Lightnin '"
Criterion.
H. H. Wallace as
Teddy Peters.
amount to even a little. It is a telling
demonstration of the fact that one may go
farther and fare worse.
“T. D. Emdee” : E. Hoggan Armadale had
been a member of Henry Irving’s company
for years understudying the actor-knight. It
was said of Armadale that he could imitate
Irving so closely in some parts that one
could not tell their performances apart, and
that when in the smalls Irving wanted a rest
be would put up Armadale and the patrons
of the show would not be any the wiser
Armadale opened in the Palace, Sydney, in
I lie Bells,” and George Marlow, his man-
ager, will never forget it. The curtain was
due to rise at 2 o’clock, and at 20 past
one there came a policeman who told Marlow
that there had been some trouble between his
star and a cabby, and that Armadale was
in the Water Police Station. Marlow hur-
ried to the Water, only to find that his
Mathias had been sampling strong waters so
freely that an appearance that afternoon
would be nothing short of a miracle. He got
Armadale to the theatre, put him in his
dressing-room, and went to make arrange-
ments for the return of the money at the
doors. His stage manager was about to step
outs de the curtain and announce the star’s
md srosit'on,” when Armadale whispered
hoarsely that he was all ri’. And so he
proved to be. The music and the tinkle of
sleigh-bells temporarily sobered him, and he
went on and played the part admirably. It
was the greatest shock of Ma r !ow’s career,
and he still shivers when he thinks of it.
. Ancient Promoter”; The two high-priced
imported comedians arrived at the first re-
hearsal of the pantomime full of beans and
bonhomie. Sporting the man they’d been
looking for they took each an arm and walked
him to the back of the stage and introduced
themselves. “We just want to give vou a
few tips about yom- part. old top,” said the
one on his left. “Yes,” said the one on his
right, “we generally has to put the bloke who
plas's the Baron wise to our gags” “Par-
don me,” interrupted the mummer in a deep
voice, “but I don’t” “Now, you ain’t
above taking a suggestion, old sport!” said
Knockabout Number One; “it’s for your
good—not ours !” “Listen.” said Knockabout
ISo. 2. “The first time we meet is in the
Baron’s castle. You're seated near the fire,
reading. We fall down the chimney and
smother you with soot. You call the guard
we tfike the slapsticks that are lying in
the fender and my pardner catches you bend-
ing, and when you straighten up I gives you
a fourpenny one on your old bladder of lard.
Then you exit screaming. A great part, the
Baron, if you only work it right.” “Yes.
‘Hit’ —— “Then in the next scene, the roof
garden, we all make an entrance in an aero-
plane. We throw you out and you fall on
your back —biff! It gets a big laugh. Then
we fall on you and my pardner gets a bigger
laugh by scniirting a siphon of soda over you.
I hen you jump up shouting and go for us
and I get the biggest laugh by giving you a
k ck that sends you flying into a bath of
whitewash. Then you exit down the fire-
escape shrieking ‘Murder!’ Oh. the Baron’s
a great part! You’ll make the success of
your life” “Hold on, hold on,” broke
in the deep-voiced mummer. “You’ve made
a mistake. I don’t play the Baron. I’m
the Demon King!” The surprised comedians
were sdent frm a moment. Then the senior
knockabout winked at his pardner, and,
lowering his voice, remarked to the mummer,
“Well, vou can shake hands with yourself,
bo. For I don’t mind telling you as a pal
the bloke who plays the Baron has to be a
bally Juggins!”


1
*
m
MURDOCH’S
DISCOUNT SALE
£reryJine reduced atJeast 10%
c Many/inerspeetatty reduced up t 050%
Less the 5L discount
ghk
ECONOMY TIME IS NOW.
Make the most of it by securing the splendid bargains at Murdoch’s Ten Per Cent.
Discount Sale.
Here’s your chance to save money on clothing. Men who are seeking an oppor-
tunity to cut down the cost of living will find the bargains wonderfully attractive.
Big reductions are the rule, and there is the further benefit of
2/- IN THE £ OFF EVERYTHING EXCEPT TOBACCO.
Come and participate in these savings—you can’t afford to miss them.
Write Desk R if you can’t call
Country Customers can select goods from our last Catalogue, and the prices will
be less 10 per cent, where we have the goods in stock. We are not able to
guarantee every line, and therefore it will be wise to make a second choice.
NOTE THESE HAT BARGAINS.
Boaters and Panamas.
Special line in Boaters, 3i-inch crowns,
2-|-inch brims, sizes 6| to 7£. Usually
5/6, SALE PRICE 4/3. o/lrf-v
Less 10 Per Cent.
White Fibre Panamas, brims,
smart City and Telescopic shapes.
Sizes 6| to 7:}. Usually 18/6, SALE
PRICE 13/6. 10/0
Less 10 Per Cent.
White Fibre Panamas, 2]-inch brims.
Sizes 6-| to 7J. Usually 15/6, SALE
PRICE 11/6. m -
Less 10 Per Cent.
Big Special Line in Genuine South
American Panamas, asstd., width brims.
Sizes 6J to 7J. Usually 21/- to 25/-,
SALE PRICE 18/6.
Less 10 Per Cent. 10/0
EVERYTHING POST FREE
ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA.
Soft Felts.
60 Dozen Special Line Pure Fur Velour
Hats, 21 brims, in Slate and Steel.
Sizes 6f to 7|. Usual Price 16/6,
SALE PRICE 13/6. 10/0
Less 10 Per Cent.
50 Dozen Olive-green Felt Hats, 2g and
24, flat-set brims, self bands. Usual
Price 8/6, SALE PRICE 7/6 (sizes 6f
to 71).
Less 10 Per Cent. O/V
50 Dozen Pure Fur Felt Hats, 21-inch
brims, asstd., Drab and Steel. Sizes 6§
to 71. Usual Price 14/6, SALE
PRICE 11/6. ir\iA
Less 10 Per Cent.
40 Dozen Soft Felt Hats, in Cuba and
Fawn only, 21-inch brims, Black band
and binding. Sizes 6§ to 71- Usual
Price 9/6, SALE PRICE 7/6. , 10 .
Less 10 Per Cent. iJ/zP
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.**
I(MNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
FROM
EACH
r
Records jy
EACH
COLUMBIA Dance Records
Played in Strict Dance Time
12-inch Double=sided, 6/= each.
Hong-Kong, Jazz Onestep London Datice Orchestra
783 ( Victory Jazz, introducing “Give Me the Moonlight/’
“Picture I Want to See” from “Hullo. America!” London Dainee Orchestra
,o, S Maxina, Bound Dance London Dauice Orchestra
*** l Sirens Jazz London Dance Orchestra
Krl i Destiny Waltz (Baynes) Prince’s Band
(In a Monastery Garden (with vocal chorus) Court Symphony Orchestra
„o» < High Jinks Waltz Prince’s Band
n3a l So-Long Letty—Foxtrot .... Prince’s Band
l Sympathy Waltz, from “The Firefly” Prince’s Band
( High Jinks—Selections London Repertoire Orchestra
_ Ol SJe sals que vous etes jolie—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
aal l My Old Kentucky Home—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
cia ( Undernealh the Stars—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
048 l Down Home in Tennessee—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
I On the Shore at Le-Lei-wi—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
j Personality—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
„„ i The Ladder of Boses—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
( Oh. Joe. With Your Fiddle and Your Bow—Onestep. Prince’s Grand Concert Band
, ( Down Where the Swanee Itiver Flows —Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
”" 4 ) Mississippi Days—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
. ( Every Little While—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
( Hawaiian Butterfly—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
oss i For Me and My Gal—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
” 88 l Here Comes Tootsie —Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
.( Pigeon Walk —Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
53S l Meadowbank —Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
_ S By Heck—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
531 \ Good-bye, Girls, I’m Through—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
( Walkin’ the Dog—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
”* 8 ( Oh, How She Could Yacki Hacki? —Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
Hello! My Dearie—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
‘° B ( My Hawaiian Sunshine —Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Etc!., Dakins House, Itawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—.Messrs. Huso Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Etd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
AVEEUINGTON. N.Z.—Bannat.vnc & Hunter, Etd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Weble.v Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Etd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
' - v
m
mmmm
£■ rnr
R
I
CAST-STEEL WHEELS, TYRES, Etc., for ROAD ROLLERS and PARTS for TRACTORS.
listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
Steel
Castings
To meet STANDARD
SPECIFICATIONS.
SOFT, MEDIUM and HARD
CARBON CAST STEEL,
MANGANESE and CHROME
CAST STEELS.
All Classes of
SPARES
for
CRUSHING,
ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING
AND INDUSTRIAL
MACHINERY.
Finished Steel Castings for All Classes of
ROAD, RAILWAY AND TRAMWAY ROLLING STOCK.
THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria. .
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE. *


USE COCOANUT OIL
FOR WASHING HAIR.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary eolinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), is j
far better than the most costly soap you
could possibly use for a shampoo, for this
cannot possibly hurt your hair. •
Merely wet your hair with water and rub
it on. A couple of teaspoonfuls makes a
perfect flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly, and evenly,
and comes out fine, and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffv, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And. best of all, this eolinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again, as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get- eolinated cocoanut oil—-at most any
chemist, but be sure it’s “eolinated,” which is
not expensive—-a few ounces lasting a long,
long time.
Use Fing'ers to Lift Off Corns!
■Vs*
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns—soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes.—
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is named
i'Tozol-Ice, and is a
substance of ether dis-
covered by a scholarly
ehemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice. cost-
ng but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet,
Apply sonie drops right on to the heart
of any tender, pain-throbbing corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn, “lock,
stock and barrel,” loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
Frozol-Ice, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous.
Only fancy! No pain! No soreness!
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice. nor
afterwards. Make a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
Acids in Stomach
Cause Indigestion.
Create Gas, Sourness and Pain.
How To Treat.
Medical authorities state that nearly nine-
tenths of the cases of stomach trouble, indi-
gestion, sourness, burning, gas, bloating,
nausea, etc., are due to an excess of hydro-
chloric acid in the stomach, and not—as some
believe —to an absence or lack of Nature’s
digestive juices. The delicate stomach lining
is irritated, digestion is delayed, and food
sours, causing the disagreeable symptoms
which every stomach sufferer knows so well.
Artificial digestants are not needed in such
cases, and may do real harm. Try laying
aside all digestive aids and instead get from
any chemist a few ounces of Salix Magnesia
and take a teaspoonful in a quarter-glass of
water right after eating. This sweetens the
stomach, prevents the formation of excess acid,
and there is no sourness, "as or pain. Salix
Magnesia (in powder or compressed tablets
form—never lumps or granules) is harmless to
the stomach, inexpensive to take, and is the
most efficient form of magnesia for stomach
purposes. It is used by thousands of peopl
who enjoy their meals without the slightest
fear of indigestion.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
“P.X.”: The curtain came down on Frank
Gerald’s old Australian partner, Stilling
Duff, in M.L. the other day. Born in S.
Aus. he started life as a shipping clerk, but
his fine elocution carried him on the .stage
and his early business training drove him
early—too early—to management. After the
smash Gerald returned to England, while
Duff went to Westralia and started business
as an auctioneer, finally settling in Maori-
land as an accountant.
“Orb”: W. Newton Carroll, lately juvenil-
ine very effectively in bellowdrama at Syd-
ney Royal, had not till then sought metro-
“Lightnin' ,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Fredlc. Esmelton as
Judge Townsend.
potman glory since
he was Dan in
“The Kelly Gang ’
at the Criterion 20
years ago. Y»t fil-
ing all that time he
has been pe.o.st-
ently barnstorming
in the backblocks
of N. S. Wales
and Bananaland.
Every township
from Cooma to
Camooweal knows
“Billy” Carroll. His
name is as familiar
in the country as
Dan Barry’s used
to be, and he has
all that shrewd
showman’s knack
of being pals with
everybody. He has
battled hard and
long, and has come
into his own at
last, for he now
runs three distinct
tent shows. Inci-
dentally, the bene-
fits he has ar-
ranged for scores
of country hos-
pitals have realised
upwards of £7OOO during the last few years.
He is still only in the forties.
“Orb”: The only bright spot for me in the
welter of unspeakable atrocities depicted
in “The Auction of Souls” picture was the
pathetic figure of the venerable Armenian
priest, Father Ruten, because in him I at
once recognised oitr old friend Frank M.
Clark. When he piously rolled his eyes to
Heaven I thought of him as the tambourine
endman and of Billy Whitburn at the other
corner with the bones. When the ravished
maidens came to the good old priest for com-
fort and advice, I thought of the “Silk Stock-
ings” vaudeville girls of auld lang syne. Even
Avhen the unspeakable Turks killed the good
old man because he wouldn't renounce his
faith, my thoughts went back to “Muldoon’s
Picnic.”' No one can gainsay Clark’s remark-
able business acumen or his astonishing
versatility as an actor. In the early
’eighties he had a highly successful season in
old St. George’s Hall. Melbourne, in part-
nersnip with Colonel Ad. Ryman. Later
Clark took the Victoria Hall, and had a
long and lucrative run Avith his “Silk Stock-
ings” Co. He kept the Earl of Rosebery pub
in Swanston-street as a side-line, and went
in for trotting horses too. Then he slid
down, only to bob up again ten years later
and make a pot of money out of the Gaiety
in Melbourne. After that he went back to his
native Yankeeland, Avhere he has been film-
acting for the Selig firm for years. Not long
ago I saiv him picture-playing the heavy,
“opposite” that other Australian favorite,
Tyrone PoAver.
Though she had made all arrangements
for the homeward journey, Sara Allgood is
not leaving us just yet. According to a
pressing managerial invitation, Peg has un-
packed her trunks and taken out her ringlets
for a very last “farewell” with the popular
piece. She expects to get away “for cer-
tain” in April.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” recollections: —
The Theatre Royal in Sydney is to make way for
something more modern. The first theatre on the
TRICKS OF THE TRADE.
STELLA'S HUSBAND: “I don't like you get-
ting all these chocolates and flowers
handed up every evening. It never hap-
pened before we were married."
STELLA : “Silly, old dear —I couldn't afford
them then."
site, the Prince of Wales, was built in 1855 by
Joseph Wyatt, and opened with J. Sheridan
Knowles’s fine play, “The Hunchback,” in which
the late Richard Stewart, father of Nellie, made his
“first appearance on any stage.” Wyatt in 1838 had
built and opened the Victoria Theatre in Pitt-
street with “Othello,” its first performance in Aus-
tralia. The Vic. was destroyed by fire in 1880 ;
the Prince of Wales had gone the same way in
1860, three lives being lost. Rebuilt, it was
called the Prince of Wales Opera House. This went
by fire on January 6, 1872; and again three lives
were lost. Rebuilt after some delay, it was leased
by Sam Lazar, who was also lessee of the old
Queen’s, in York-street. The new house was burned
on June 16, 1892. Mrs. Bernard Bcere had played
Lady Gay Spanker there that night. That fire
ended a historic law suit in which Jack Want, Q.C.,
was the plaintiff. Jack had frequently assisted
Sam Lazar to pay salaries when business was dull,
and in return Lazar gave AVant the free use of the
O.P. box. When mental trouble overtook Lazar
and ended in his death, his sister, Victoria Moss,
disputed Want’s claim to the exclusive use of the
box, but conceded three nights each week. This
she afterwards revoked, and Want instituted a suit
in Equity, which had gone against him as far as
he had taken it.
The bare-to-the-Avaist costume has long
been a feature of the lighter shows in Paris.
London is nibbling at it, but not eagerly.
Miss Teddie Gerard, the great exploiter of
the bare back,. experimented further lately,
and the censor’s attention was called to her
promptly. On the first night of “Afgar,”
at the Pavilion, Mona Parra did a dance
Avith nothing on at all but little breast-
shields and a grass apron of the Pacific
Island type; but almost every newspaper
denounced the “costume,” and it had to be
amended.
“Norbell”: Bung having told the profes-
sion what he thinks of it in Melbourne, the
profession may reasonably tell Bung (especi-
ally country Bung) that, in its opinion,
he is a brigand and a bounder Avhere mum-
mers are concerned. I’ve been all night sit-
ting up in the tram with my wife, and on
reaching our objective in the morning have
been laughed at by the local publican, who
has suggested the woodheap or the fowlhouse
as a suitable retreat for “yous triatricals!”
I’ve left my Avife sitting on the railway plat-
form Avhile I’ve tramped the tOAvn for hours
imploring to be taken in, and finally have
been driven to take two beds in a ward of
the local hospital. The pubs have their
rooms crammed with beds for single male
lodgers, and a woman would monopolise the
snace in which three or four wire-whiskered
patrons might be bedded down. The con-
ditions are often appalling and the tucker
invariably is. When on tour with “SAveet
Nell of Old Drury” I met George Musgrove
in the streets of a N. S. Wales western toAim.
Muzzy Avas loaded Avith parcels. “Been shop-
ping, guv’nor?” I asked. “Yes,” he growled.
“Tnis is a frying-pan,” indicating one par-
cel. “This is a spirit-stove; this is bread;
this is butter; this is salt and penoer; this
is 21b. of steak.” He was staying at the
leading caravansary at 15s. per day, and
yet he was going to surreptitiously prepare
a decent meal for Nellie Stewart and her
daughter Nancye.
“Norbell”: “Soldiers as supers? Not for
me!” exclaims “Ancient Prompter” (B.
15/l/’2O). Jusso! In the theatre at Bal-
larat (Vic.) a long time ago I participated
in “The Eureka Stockade.” Con Burroughs,
a local publican with military leanings—
he had been sergt.-major in the Grenadier
Guards—volunteered to lead the local militia
to the attack in the “big” scene. We
Avretched mummers Avere the heroic de-
fenders. On the opening night the old
warrior, sniffing gunpowder
once more, lost his head
completely, and let her go!
He was clad in the regula-
tion scarlet, and when he
drew his sword, gave a wild
war-whoop and charged with
his myrmidons, he was an
imposing figure. His troops
forgot all previous warnings
and fired at us point-blank,
and Con slashed his snicker-
snee with vicious realism.
Of course, all the mummer-
miners promptly fell “dead”
for safety at the first bank,
and the Stockade was cap-
tured without a struggle.
By the way, when that
“Eureka Stockade” affair
was in preparation I saw
scenic-artist Little open the
big doors at the back of the
stage and paint Mount War-
renhe’p and the surrounding scenery on the
back-cloth he had hanging on the stage. It
Avas probably the only time a scene has been
pa'nted in the theatre direct from nature.
“Puff”: While J.C.W.. Lid., periodically
bleats about the increasing cost of produc-
tions, Hugh D. Mclntosh, with only two
theatres, is able to support a bevy of beauty
girls at the ridiculous salary of a tenner a
week each, in addiffon to a larsre managerial
staff. Charles Workman and Bob Greig are
both “associate directors.” and the latest
acquisition to their ranks is George Fitz-
Patrick. lately booster of the overfed Mil-
l'ons Club. And now the S. M. Herald’s per-
sonal column announces Mclntosh’s depar-
ture for the South, attended or supported by
Arthur Rickard. William Brooks. Fitz Pa-
trick, a Y.C. or tivo and various halberdiers
and men-at-arms to “attend a function to
General Birdwood at the Tivoli, Melbourne.”
Is there anybody these days who isn’t ready
to take a hand in the bill-posting business?
“Peter”: The Melbourne management
whose whitewash scene has been imitated by
a rival in an expensive orgy of raspberry-
jam, has already retaliated on the plagiarist
by purloining the latter’s great effect of
slaying a sham pirate Avith a huge cannon-
ball hurled in from one of the wings. Of
course the whiteAvash merchants don’t in-
troduce just that kind of victim or that style
of ammunition, but assassinate a golfer with
an immense golf-ball. I am now waiting to
see if the jam comedians will have their
revenge by further robbing the robbers.
There is now very little original “business”
to p’nch. and they can’t attempt a whole-
sale theft without getting a lot of their oivn
stuff back.
“Private Boxer”: The father of Primrose
Caryll. one of the attractive girleens of the
“B'ng Boys on Broadway” cast, has written
tr's umpty-umpth musical comedy score.
This is “Kissing Time.” which the J.C.W.
firm is just putting on in Melbourne. It is
going on for 30 years since “music by Ivan
Caryll” first appeared on a playbill, and
still no musician does it more melodiously
than Ivan.
“T.D.M.”: The remarks of “Ibenshaw” on
Australian plays and the possibilities of get-
ting a market in America recall the experi-
ence of Humphrey Hall, of Sydney Daily
Telegraph. He sent several MSS. over.
“Oddments," at Mel-
bourne Tivoli.
Arthur Aldridge in
fancy dress.
One, founded on
the life of Georges
Sand, was returned
with the usual
suave regrets; and
it may have been
only coincidence
that a play on the
same subject, and
showing a remark-
able resemblance to
Hall’s work, was
soon afterwards
produced in Ameri-
ca. I happened to
mention this to an
Australian manager
who had returned
from N’York, where
he had secured
plays, and re-
marked how unfor-
tunate it was that
Australian man-
agers would no t
assist their ow n
countrymen. II i s
reply Avas a shrug
of the shoulders.
“When successes
can be purchased,
why should I risk
money in staging
possible failures?”
he asked. Which proved, of course, that
the manager had no faith in his own judg-
ment.
“Ike Pagliacci”: If “Lightnin’ ” continues
in New York till Feb. s—and5 —and it is confi-
dently expected to flash till June —the
Yank play will reach its (505th performance
and go one better than “Peg o’ My Heart.”
the previous record-holder. With over 500
performances given there have been vacant
seats on two occasions only—one Friday
matinfie and, strangely enough, tho opening
night.
“Aisle Seat”: Theatrical families divide
their talents. Recently in Sydney Kate
Howarde played at the Royal, her daughter
at the Opera House. In Adelaide Bilander-
son’s daughter was in a show that was in
opposition to dad at another theatre. Fred
Bluett and his son Gus have been comeding
in different Sydney theatres simultaneously.
Marie Le Varre is at Sydney Tiv., her
brother Harry has an act at the Alhambra,
and pa and ma are with Fullers.
“Belle Canto” : Renee Maxwell, the young
Australian, will shortly come back to tour
her own country. She will have with her
Digger Vern Sellers, of Adelaide. He went
to the Big Shindy in 1914. and stayed
15 months after it was over. But
that was chiefly because a mud-spat-
tered pal in the trenches proved to be
a connection by marriage of a duke, who dis-
covered that even Flanders hadn’t ruined the
young Australian’s fine baritone. Aristo-
cratic influences gave Sellers the right train-
ing, and he made a big hit at his professional
cffibut. He returned to Adelaide on Anni-
versary Day, but his old job of bootmakin?
will probably know him no more, although
before he left for the Front all his singing
had been done during the morning bath.
“Whax”: According to “Fax” (B.
22/l/’2O), that “Theodore and Co.” has run
for nine weeks has caused “the evident dis-
comfiture of some of the [Melbourne]
critics.” I have particularly good reason for
knowing that one of the critics who told
the truth about the piffling “musical” hotch-
potch is not in the least discomfited, evidently
or otherwise. Almost any stuff can fill a
Melbourne theatre on Saturday nights, and
bring along a fair number of folk through
the week, as long as it contains plenty Of
show-girls wearing fashionable dresses, and
a few favorite players. As one of the drapery
plays “Theodore” has had the usual parades
of mannequins advertising dressmakers and
milliners, and it began with the big pub-
licity asset of the associated names of
Florence Young, Maude Fane and Gladys
Moncrieff. But the pleasant Gladys has
beep the only one of the three with fair
acting or singing chances, and the popular
Florence has been put out of action by a
motor accident. As to Theodore .Leonard, he
has considerably amended his performance
since the opening night. Allowing both for
improvements and for the notable loss from
the cast, “Theodore” is still a poor show to
listen to. That it appeals mainly to the
eye is illustrated by the point that on various
nights the stalls audience has been very
sparse, and most of the attendance has been
in the gallery, where hearing conditions can
hardly be called perfect. Anyway, nine weeks
is by no means a remarkable run for a show
of “Theodore’s” size. Things of the kind
can’t be put on or taken off in a few days or
nights.
A "'REAM OF STRANGE BOOSTINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dreamt I was in New York where I’d sampled all
the shows
At theatres and “big-time” halls where energetic
pros.
Sang many songs to ragtime tunes and always
through the nose.
But what was most peculiar, e’en wondrous, you’ll
agree—
The ditties that were warbled weren’t about
Amerikee;
They barracked for a sunny land set in a Southern
sea 1
Australia! Tremendous puffs they gave this con-
tinent ;
One praised “Dear old Echuca” and a gorgeous
colored gent
With “ ’Way Down Little Coogce” caused uproarious
merriment.
A “duo” knocked ’em silly with “My Dashing Dubbo
Maid,”
And “Shearing-time in Gympie” was a “riot” that
delayed
The advent of a star turn who upon the banjo played.
“Dear Home at Parramatta” was the song he sang
and strummed,
While everybody in the house the catchy chorus
hummed ;
And with “My Mate in Surry Hills” they very
quickly chummed.
Joyful and shrilling "coo-ees” were resounding
everywhere,
With praise of “gums” and “kangaroos” and
“Mister Billy Bear,”
And all the shows concluded with “Advance, Aus-
tralia Fair” !
No home-made chants were chanted for there wasn’t
one, ’twould seem.
“AVhy?” I was wildly asking when.a Melbourne
milko’s scream
Awakened me. Now, wasn’t that an idiotic dream?
VICTOKIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Is* amj higher opinion obtainable?
Mr Henri
ortbe Conservatorium of~Music.
writes';
Messrs hfeiron <s> Smith Ld. y
lam delightedwith theSalonola.
I must congratulate uou on i/our
being able to produce such an.
Instrument in Australia ”
Aslcfir our illustrated
Price Lists.—lnteresting
Descriptive Booklets
sent on recruest.
SSKNraA.’
THE BEST
V
Of ALL
TALKING
MAGiINKS
IS
iM
m
m
m
m
m
£
t ib
* m
mm
oam »SZ4
g 1 an
IP
«n
was
a ■ ■
iHfe
;,; 1W
mMismimm
Sfij
MS&i
S@s
mm
iifes
m£
g£g£
m
ippas
Hi
ariH
; : K©
MBS
e*sp
s'®
Ms
IS®
s3r s
iTUDItf . m
■ S 8?
QjS deposit
/ and
<ZG ■weelclij
will secure a
§AL Q NPIA,
Heirontsmithl2
Casdereagh Sti^t.Sydiifiy
507 Queen. iS'tree'L, Pbriabane
Georde H ass a 11, GG Gawler Place,Adelaide.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE ana CCOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS. LlfllTED. RecJiern. Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO RCUMB ?
LEWIS & WFIITTY MAKERS
For All
Animals.
HANG THEM
BY THE
LOOP.
r
zs
1
Salt licks
At allst3r2 , i23’>2rs, Produce Merchants, Saddlers 8 Blacksmiths.
The public got qfrung over the A.J.C.
Cliallenge Stakes as it often nas before. There
were 10 runners. One had no hope unless the rest
fell down dead. Seven were well-known sprinters,
and of them Maltgilla was a partial stranger with
a reputation, and Douglas Haig was a youngster
that had shown form as a two-year-old and had
galloped respectably a week before at a suburban
meeting. Gobi, a good performer last year, was
obviously a long way above himself. Poitrina’s
sister Aires hail run a bad last in the Carrington
Stakes and had worked unattractively since. Willie
Kino, of Newcastle, has not provoked applause for
some time. Wherefore the proceedings seemed cer-
tain to boil down to a struggle between Sydney
Damsel, Palm Leaf, Maltgilla, Nauteh Girl and
Sweet Kosaleon. Trainer Tomlinson wouldn’t hear
of his little mare being beaten.' Booth was con-
fident about Maltgilla. Money was wheeled up in
tons for Sydney Damsel. She shortened to 2’s.
Maltgilla drifted from 7 to' 2 to s’s. Palm Leaf
stuck firmly at 9 to 2. Sweet Rosaleen was at B's,
Nauteh Girl at 100 s to 7. Anyone who wanted
Aires and Willie Rino could get 100’s to 4 and
5: but though yells were many and loud, buyers
were few and shy. A few came in on Aires at
the death, but only a few. Professional tipsters
were moved to tears at the spectacle of a mare
known to be one of the smartest sprinters seen at
Randwick for years romping home in a small field
at a write-your-own-ticket price. She ran the six
furlongs in “11#.” The journey has never been
travelled jin a greater hurry at Randwick.
The only one of the well-backed lot to show cause
was Maltgilla ; the rest were carried off their legs
by the rapidity of the early proceedings. With
Aires and Willie Rino she swung round the turn
four lengths clear of the others, and the three
battled it out practically in line to the distance.
Maltgilla here pushed her head in front, and kept
it there for about half a second. A hundred yards
from the post she faltered, and Willie Rino and
Aires sprang past her. Willie burst after a stride
or two, and the mare hit the line with a good two
lengths to spare. Sydney Damsel came with a
rattle from 1 the clouds over the last furlong; and
as everything else was dying, she seemed to be going
faster than was the case. The belated effort failed
to carry her into a place. Palm Leaf would have
been last ’if Lyndhurst Lady hadn’t monopolised the
position from the jump.
* . * * *
Training liorses is one thing, ricljsg- then;
is another —and a third and rare art of the business
is knowing how to place them. It is almost as fatal
to put one’s horses into an excessively fast set as it
is to personally live in one. The Newcastle horse
.Tack Findlay is one that always lias his
company wisely chosen. On Saturday he took his
fourth race of the season at Randwick —the third
since Boxing Day. It was a Welter seven furlongs,
and'John, carrying fist. 31b., and naMced f”0"-> yiyes
t > threes' as solidly as the foundations of human
hope, never looked a loser. Buc auouier cro.vu ,a
Newcastle didn’t get along so well. It brought down
a big, lumbering Fortafix gelding named Svlvafort
for the Trial Mile, and supported him on put-in and
take-out 'principles. However, ho got tangled Sip
in the big field and stuck there. The Trexsady mare
Ketvpie, a frequent failure, starting at,a long price,
just touched off the Hordern- and Bailleau-owned
King of the Forest.
*!* * ’ «
Trainer .Tames Whitworth unostenta-
tiously turned up at Sydney Tatt.’s meeting a month
ago leading Orient Maid. She started in the juvenile
event at 33 to one, and walloped a big field. On
Saturday i Whitworth brought the Maid and Cherry
Day along to sample the A.J.C. menu for youngsters.
Orient Maid was well backed. There wasn’t 2d. in
the ring for the colt, but he won and paid £1,7
for 10s. on the totalisator. He is a smart-looking
colt by Tressady; owner, E. J. Watt. Orient Maid
ran third. In the judgment of the stable the winner
hadn’t a hope.
Imported Urney helped himself to the A.J.C.
Anniversary Handicap. As usual, the hardy
old battler was at an appetising price, and had
apprentice 11. Lillyman, Bill’s little brother, on top.
Having won eight races since August, Urney now
owes nothing for his oats, even at their present
price. The field was very ordinary first and last.
Kenilford has evidently been galloped to a stand-
still, and was soon in trouble. Eastcourt moved
off sluggishly, and ran as sourly as a mule through-
out. The race was really between Urney, Spellway
and Lord Narajax, and they finished in a bunen that
way in one of the best handicaps of the year —
three horses that in a normal season wouldn't have
a look in at Randvvick.
One of the surprises of the A.J.C. meeting
was the speed of Barney Allen’s Derby colt Gambler’s
Gold in tne Hying. Barney took some freak wagers
from jocular brothers of the bag about the animal,
several 500 s to 5 among the number. The colt
didn t get sighted till half-way up the straight,
but then came from a remote place like an escaped
comet and finished a good third.
* * * *
With advancing years the Cuneiform geld-
ing Angleform—an Albury Cup-winner—has de-
veloped into the most accomplished hurdler in these
parts. On the first day of the A.J.C. meeting last
week he won with 11.12, running the two miles
in “44£.” On the second day he put up 12.13, and
made an easier job of it. A peculiarity of Angle-
form is that he insists on running his heavy cargoes
along in front and lobs over the fences a couple
of lengtiis quicker than anything that runs up to
him. The handieapper should say something really
harsh to him next time.
* * * *
Jimmy Pike, having bad a couple of years’
holiday, was allowed to start riding again at Rand-
wick on Saturday. His second leg-up was on Aires.
James got a cheer when he brought the lady back.
Bracken rode her in the Carrington, and navigated
Palm Leaf in the Challenge.
* * * *
At the Q.T.C. Anniversary meeting Little
Owl (Howletts—Tarpeia) won the opening race on
both days. Golden Sunset (imp.) (Sunflow'er ll.
Mouehe d’Or) took the Foundation Handicap on the
first day and the Anniversary on the second. The
Flying Handicap went to the consistent Rappel King,
the favorite, Perpetual Motion, belying his name, as
he ceased moving to any real purpose after the first
couple of furlongs.
The black filly Teremerau (Charlemagne
11. (imp.)—Gaelic Lass), who ran second in the
First Nursery at Randwiek and first in the Second
ditto, is a full sister to the racecourse uncertainty
Woorawa, but, unlike him, she floes not consistently
die away at the five-furlong pole.
* * * *
Percy Miller, being a butcher, does the
right thing in naming his horses after his stock-in-
trade, but he is apt to be confusing when he dis-
regards the animal’s sex. Aries (the Challenge Stakes
winner* stands for th,e first sign of the Zodiac and
means the ram—surely a misnomer for the handsome
daughter of Armigera.
* * * *
The Deloraine (Tas.) Turf Club, which
races on Easter Monday, has raised the prize
that goes with the Deloraine Gup to £6OO
£lOO better than Hobart Cup. As the Delo-
raine Steeple was already the jumping race, the older
clubs that control the sport will have to hand out
more money or take a back seat. The Deloraine
Cup is to be the Tasmanian Cup this year. Motors
have made the club.
* * * *
Sportsmen to the last, the defeated Davis
Cup British reps, put off their de >arture to play
in the Australasian Championship games at Double
Bay (Sydney). Kingscote was suffering from a
strained back, but the hurt didn’t stop him
appreciably. In his match with North, the young-
ster, . who is brilliant in his t-lass, was out-played
in all three sets, Pat O’Hara Wood and Thomas,
tlie All-England Doubles champions, provided a
smashing display of offensive tennis. Short of con-
dition though Wood, palpably is, the pair would
certainly have extended Brookes and Patterson had
tie latter competed. Yet the N. S, Wales man
Marsh well beat Thomas (6 —4, 7—5, 6—%) at
an early stage of the proceedings. Plainly, Aus-
tralian tennis has more than one or two to hope
great things from.
CAM HAMMOND, umpire of the Davis Cup
—his third appearance in the part.
The movement to rob M.L. of the venue
of the next Davis Cup tournament is as unsporting
as anvthing of the sort in recent times. Wilding
brought the Cup to Australia. He was k : ll''d in the
war, arid his native land adopted coriscription. No
wonder M.L. is weak at the moment in champions.
The other cited objection is the Christchurch cli-
mate. But to say it is as bad as Sydney in January
or London-Wimbledon in any average summer is
grotesquely absurd.
The real fnotive power is, no doubt, finance —the
force which impelled the Tennis Assoc, to charge up
to a guinea for seats on a bare, wooden stand, the
material of which went back to the builders after
the tournament, and to sell a portion of the public
tickets for one series of matches and arbitrarily
decide to show' them another and Dss att’a twe
series. Christchurch, with its fifty or sixty thousand
inhabitants, is not likely to provide such crowds as
a city which owns a Millions Club; - nor will it come
at profiteer’s prices for the matches, to any great
extent. These are weigntier considerations with
nine-tenths of the peop.e who are now arguing that
M.L. should be left out in the cold than a concern
about M.L. rainstorms.
“O. Blin”: Gerald Patterson’s play in the
Davis Cup, good as it was, hasn’t stiffened Me.bourne
confidence in his ability to hold the world’s singles.
The Englishman Lowe is not in his class, and Kings-
cote was apparently too obsessed by the notoriety of
Gerald’s sen ice, as well as troubled by the un-
pleasant foot-faulting, to proie the opponent he can
be. Patterson is likely to meet his greatest opposi-
tion amongst his own countrymen, and if O'Hara
Wood strikes the top of his form he may be the first
to dent the ha.o. Wood, who with Thomas defeated
Patterson and Brookes for the World’s Championship
Doubles at Wimbledon, was also within an ace of
playing off with his fellow Victorian for the singles
as well. But he was put out by Kingscote (three sets
to two), wherefore the meeting between him and
Patterson didn’t take place. With a knowledge of
O’Hara Wood’s ail-round brilliancy and staying
power, coupled with his refusal to acknow.edge any
service as irresistible, 1 should say that a bact.e
between him and Patterson would be much more
exciting than even a Davis Cup item. Once Patter-
son’s service is defeated, as McLoughlin’s was, he
cannot command enough genius in other departments
of the game to prevent some better-equipped player
getting his scalp. He has a pretty cut stroke, an
e.ectriiying smash and lots of top-spin, but he hasn’t
sufficient control of his temperament to achieve a
reasonable minimum of errors. Alw'ays he will be
a dashing player with more hand than head, and
one day he will inevitably succumb to the calm and
ca.cu.acing place-hitter who will show the nerve,
skill and indifference to his repute to keep him
skidding bitterly along the base line.
Joe Beckett has been making strenuous
efforts ever since the war ended to get rid of his man-
ager Mortimer. Mortimer got a fifty-fifty agreement
out of the heavy-witted English pug when the latter
was practically unknown. Last week Mortimer was
granted an injunction by the Judge in Chancery and
an order was made for the production of the deed.
If, as is understood to be the case, all is in order,
Beckett will have to hand over half his earnings
during the next two years, and a fortune by way
of lack money. Why a boxer should thus bind
himself down for practically his whole professional
life is one of the mysteries of the game. The manager
is usually a loud-voiced bluffer, who does no better
service for his employer than one of the status of a
bookmaker’s clerk might accomplish. And in any
event the top-notcher, the stoush-merchant with
something to sell, has no need to hire anyone to
boom his wares. They sell themselves these days.
On Saturday night Jamito, the broad-
faced, smiling little Filipino who has become such
a favorite with Sydney Stadium crowds, gave Eddie
Wallace, of America, demonstrations of every hit in
his repertory. The best of them is a straight left;
and that Wallace appreciated the fact was soon
evident. lie nearly had his head knocked off by one
in the first round. Wallace fought mostly on the
retreat and hardly led to the colored youth at all.
Briefly, he was outclassed. Jamito is a very difficult
proposition in his own division. He has an iron
jaw, great strength, and is more than game. In
fact, if he were a shade more scientific he would
move into the first flight.
* * * *
There were some high-priced ones among
this year’s performers at Bong Bong (N.S.W.) Picnic
meeting. F. G. White’s Rochefort, winner of the
Cup, cost 750 guineas as a yearling. He is by the
Australian Cup winner Almissa. (Ken Austin, his
rider, has now, by the way, won the last four Bong
Bong Cups in succession.) Sam Hordern’s King of
the Forest, who ran second in the big event, cost
his owner 500 guineas in Melbourne. Fiagun, who
took the Trial Stakes for H. L. Austin, is own
brother to the ver-- costly Gallipoli.
• * • *
'A rare old battler is Linacre’s hardy son
Littass, who ran his 150th race in public in the
Tooronga Handicap at Caulfield. He made his first
appearance at Flemington in. 1913 and to date has
won 10 races, been second 23 times and 27 times
third.
* ' * ; * *
Norman Iloss knocked out two more Aus-
tralian records at Brisbane on Saturday. He did
the 200yds. in 2inin, llsee. (l-sth faster than Cecil
Healy s figures) and Jhe 220yds. in 2min. 25 4-ssec.
—an advance of 2 3-ssec. on Barney Keiran's record.
This was 3-ssec. behind the worlds figures; but it
is a big improvement*' on Ross’s 2min. 32 4-ssec. at
(N.S.W. championships a few weeks ago. The Yanks
efforts over middle distances are exceptional, and
it is a matter for rcg'fet that he will be missing
from the N.S.W. mile championship at Sydney this
week. '
In Melbourne Frank Beaprcpaire more or less
simultaneously covered 440yds. in smin. 2 3-ssec.
On figures, “Bogey s” effort is 14 2-ssee. better than
the vvorlds record; but there were no regulation
officials and he was not wearing the specified cos-
tume, so his effort misses the “book.” Beaurepaire
and Stf'dman will represent Victoria in the coming
Australian championships at Adelaide.
This year’s five-mile swim through Perth (W.A.)
enticed 56 starters to the ipost, and 20 of them
finished. Norman Blurton. a youth of 18, with
18min. handicap, won easily in~2hr. 9min. 10 sec.
W. Reed (scratch) finished twelfth in fastest time
(lhr. s'lmin.). Seven ladies participated, but only
two gave the glad eye to the judge.
Bowlers were thriller] to the mn’Tow m
the final of the Vie. champion pairs. At the eighth
head Johnson arid Bunee led (14 —3), at the 15th
they were out in front (17—12), and at the 19th
all appeared over bar the drinks. Thev were then
rollicking in the van to the tune of 20 —15. Then
Dobbie and Collins awoke find arose and scored four
at the 20th. and ran level at the 21st. In an extra
end they Scored one and took the honors.
* * * *
N. S. Wales riot first strike in the return
match v. Vic. (which will probablv decide the desti-
nation .of. the Stmif'ClO Sliplfl - * and batsman ma''e
the most of -the/perfect vvicket and the indifferent
enemy artillery. Andrew's might ha’O p’aving
club cricket, so scorn f ully did he treat the invading
trundlers. ' His side’s mammoth score (571 —
Andrews 247 n. 0.) would have been even bigger had
not the stable instructions to the players been to
hit out and forget their averages. Bard.ley, Kippax
and Punch Suone refulger.tly, the last-named stand-
ing out as the most brilliant of the three. Carter
“kept ’ with his customary wizardry; but whv does
he put himself in first? He isn’t picked for his bat
ting and never will be.
T. J. ANDREWS (N.S.W.),
who scored 247 n.o. against Victoria.
Tommy Andrews’s latest effort lifts his
Sheffield Shield aggregate to 494—average 123.5.
Among the best pre.ious aggregates were C. G.
Macartney’s 445 in 1913-14 and Jack ltyder’s 425 in
1914-15. The score has been exceeded only three
times by a N. S. Wales batsman v‘. Victoria—Billy
Murdoch, 321 in 1882; H. Moses, 297 in 1838; and
M. A. Noble, 281 in 1905.
* ♦ * *
Veteran Peter McAllister is still display-
ing fine form in Melbourne district cricket. Of
East’s 294 for six wickets against St. Kilda on
Saturday he made 159 not out in his best inter-
national style. None of Saints’ bowlers had any
sting, bar Soden, who finished the day with 5 for
70. Probably the absence of fast-bowler McDonald
unduly weakened Fitzroy's attack on Northcote, but,
all the same, ’Cote’s 37.3 for 8 was worth a cheer,
even though a brisk trio. Yeomans (130), Wood-
bury (95 n. 0.) and Carroll (82), contributed most
of the total. Melbourne, with Armstrong and Rans-
ford in Sydney, enforced Collingwood s respect with
the aid of left-hander Ironmonger, who took eight
wickets for 35. ’Woods 175 seems already within
reach of Melbourne, who have so far 105 for three
wickets. Carlton’s team against North Melbourne
was made miserable by North’s new wicket-keeper,
an ex-Lancashire man named Snowden, who stumped
three, caught two, and allowed only three byes.
Carlton finished up with 212 to their credit, and
North have started to consume the arrears with one
for 75. The South v. Essendon disturbance was
like a game of croquet in a vicarage garden. South
patted the ball for 175 runs, and Essendon’s four for
84 showed a determination to be polite to the
enemy’s bowlers. Thomson (86) was the shining
light of P’ran (198). The opposition, Richmond,
have carried a motion of no confidence in them-
selves with a grand total of 44.
The Austmlasinn A.A. championships at
Sydney next Saturday will be representative or
nothing. Maoriland, Victoria and N. S. Wales are
all contributing top-notchers in different departments,
while South Aus. is sending A. J. Rumsey (middle
distances) and the great walker T. 11. Terrell; and
Queensland has nominated R. Burguez and A. C.
Sorenson (sprints), Frank Molloy (pole vault), J.
Stafford and W. Morahan (distance), and W. Pitt
(walks). The sprint entries are so numerous that
heats and finals .will be necessary.
* * * *
R. G. Piggott licked Frank Rule over
440yds. hurdles at East Sydney Club championships
at Sydney on Saturday in 61 4-ssec. Later he won
the 440yds. flat handicap from scratch in 52 l-ssec.
-—only 4-ssec. behind Dunn Shield record. Piggott
will represent N. S. Wales in the 440vds. and 880vds.
at the A.A.A. championship meeting next week-end.
The pursuit race between Australian and
American teams of six each at Sydney last week
was an innovation. They started at opposite sides
of the track, and the Anssies won after 41 pules
in 9min. 25sec. Ex-Australian Bob Spears outflew
Mcßeath and Grenda in a special scratch race, and
he also defeated Hans Ohrt in two straight heats over
a mile. Ohrt, who is a much improved rider, won
the one-mile handicap in lmin. 55see., and also
defeated George Ilorder in a special match race.
* « * *
Sydney held its 73rd Anniversary Regatta
on Monday. The weather lured every imaginable
tvne of craft on to the bosom of the harbor, and
then suddenly unloosed a black southerly upon
them. For an hour or more the leaden waves were
dotted with over-turned boats to which men citing
philosophic allv waiting to be Saved. The racing
suffered. Ilprmione won the All Yachts event (hep.
14min.) from Bona (scratch). There was a tremen-
dous entrv for the Cruisers’ Race, and the hardi-
capper had came for pride when the numbers went
trt. Triton (lmi".! won from Gumleaf 11. and
Dawn (3m'n.). Triton’s finishing time was 4his.
56min. Reg Short put up a fine performance in
taking the Ail Comms Single Sculls :(lm. 2f.) with
a Ssec. handicap from C. A. Messenger ( 5-ee.) ;
MeDrvitt, the scratch man, could do no better than
third. Nine started.
TO A DAVIS CUP PLAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
You never believed we could do it —
You showed what you thought by your acts.
Well, now, though you possibly rue it,
You see we were telling you facts.
(This doesn’t refer to our pugs of to-day,
Nor yet to the cricket or football we play.)
You doubted; and nothing- would shift you.
Our tennis ? No; certainly not.
When argument tended to drift to
This ever-green subject, you got
As keen to establish that Brookes has no peer
(Old and all though he may be) as anyone here.
The thing that you viewed with discredit—
In fact, one may say witli disdain —
Was our claim (you'd both heard it and read it)
To sometimes, like London, get rain.
You will now perhaps own that our climate can go
•fust as far as the rottenest London can show.
N.B.W.
SYDNEY SNIFBLES.


A SKILFUL BOXER HAS NO FEAR!
A skilful Boxer is a man to be
envied and admired.
He has himself under complete con-
trol. He has been taught to be
patient and tolerant. He is not
easily “put out,’' and usually is the
last to seek a quarrel.
When he is forced, however, to
defend himself, he does it with a
quiet calm that breathes self-confi-
dence in his etery action. He is not
flurried in the least. He has a set
plan, and adapts himself to circum-
stances. He reserves his strength
until the other fellow is getting
“groggy.” He is always doing the
right thing at the right time.
Would you like to be a skilful boxer —to be able
to give aggressive individuals a couple of stone and
a beating? Then, why not learn Scientific Boxing
from me in your own home?
I TEACH BOXING BY POST.
I want to tell you all about my methods. How
simple and interesting they are. What rapid pro-
gress you’ll make, and what healthful exercise you
will secure from my instruction.
“SNOWY” BAKER K.O. BOXING GLOVES,
in two grades, 15/6 and 21/-. per Set of Four
Gloves, post free. Every set personally selected and
guaranteed.
Write for my illustrated booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which gives fuller par-
ticulars and cost of tuition, etc. Just wrUe
your name and address across this advertisement and post it to me. I’ll
know what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“ Snowy”) BARER,
Specialist in Physical Culture. *
197 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
I
rv
WHEN TOURING
You don't need a map to
find out where to get
“SHELL”
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
a
w,
Shoi
BEH2IHE
The Secret of Easy Shaving
II © C
CO.
o©
V.
Do you want quick, easy,
pleasant shaves? Do you
want to keep your face
in the pink of condition,
free from pimple?, in-
growing . hairs or cuts?
Then Set vour Razor on
a PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
be the same—a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
TRY THE PERFORATED HONE
If it doesn't make your razor shave to
your satisfaction, return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 6/-, or post free 15/6 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11 123 Sussex Street,Sydney.
[7
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL HE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOL'RiNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNhY.
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
MANUFACTURED BY —
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Send for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
1
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
/
&
B
«H
Xm
wMwmm
I
*r?r
MUIVdBM SfßOflL
THE LIMIT OF VALUE IN “REAL” PANAMAS
Considering that it is absolutely a GENUINE PANAMA, smartly
fashioned and well made, there is no gainsaying the exceptional
value I’epresented in our “L.S.” Special at 21/-
Light, cool and comfortable and distinctly stylish, the “L.S.” Special
will completely meet your present needs.
We have other “Real” Panamas at from 15/- to 42/-. We’re sure
to have YOUR size and YOUR requirements as to width of brim,
height of crown, etc.
CALL OR WRITE WE PAY FREIGHT.
(10% Discount to Returned Men.)
Lincoln Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd,,
“Specialists in Quality Wear for Men,”
244=54 Flinders Street —— Melbourne.,


SportfiiMf Gu&irs
*
“Sporting Life*' Cigars—
Boxes of 10 .. .. .. 5/ -
Boxes of 25 .. .. .. 11/9
Boxes of 50 23/6
Made from the finest Manila
leaf and packed specially for
Farmers. “Sporting Life" cigars
are ideal for the business or profes-
sional man who appreciates a mild,
mellow cigar, with a flavour and
aroma to delight the connoisseur.
S y tov&fbrVtet£.
0irria^e!l5ox4O7o^a.
w.t»mo Ur?
MZT? 1 .
3
A Display of New Models
for the Autumn and
Winter Seasons coming
will be held at the
Hotel Carlton, Sydney,
on Monday next, February 2, and the
following four days. The New Models
are full of exquisite surprises—and
you should endeavor to see them.
Dressmakers,
Ladies’ Tailors,
SHAVE
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Me It onian
jSPEflALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
v;
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE - OVER • THE - WORLD
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Q w;,re was nothing dry and formal about
Birdwood’s arrival in Melbourne. Just as
he stepped from the Adelaide express the
rain crashed a salute on the roof of Spencer-
street station. The photographers, who !■
erected miniature Eiffel Towers outside,
went scurrying for shelter, but the crowd
m the station-yard was too tightly wedged
to get in out of the wet. On the platform
generals were as thick as thieves at Vallom-
brosa, but none of them looked as pic-
turesque as the Gordon Chirnside lady—
formerly Mavis Thiel —a grateful vision" in
a black tailor-made which must have cost
£1 per minute. Warrior Selheim’s spouse,
who is the head Sister Susie, greeted
Birdy, and Selheim himself was deputed to
remark that the G.-G. was aw’f’ly pleased
Birdy had arrived, only etiquette would not
permit him to come and say so. Hughes
and other Ministers were present, including
Pearce in glad habiliments, comprising a
cut-away coat, beautiful grey pants and an
enigmatical boxer. While the rain lasted
Birdwood held an informal lev6e, and then
went out to receive the cheers of a drenched
multitude.
It is possible to have too much of a good
thing;, so Birdy slipped out the back way
from the Vic. Treasury, after a long chat
with Lieut.-Governor Irvine, to avoid any
more shoulder-carrying and car-dragging. The
ease with which the General “did” the boys
by obtaining the use of another motor-car
just around the corner was remarkable. He
was at the Town Hall, via Spring, Bourke
and Swanston streets, before the official
and unofficial bodyguard woke up. Major
Baird, Vic. Chief Sec., who served under
Birdwood in Gallipoli, stage-managed the
little ruse.
The G.-G.,-in full war paint, and Lady
Helen, in her best dress, went to the mayoral
reception to Birdwood in the Town Hall on
Friday night. Mrs. Stein had had the big
hall practically re-lined. The balconies were
covered with deep-rose cloth, embroidered in
I.ouis Quinze designs. Rose lights ran all
around, and there were hundreds of small
potted ferns on the ledges. One of them
fell and rolled to the lower ledge, where it
shivered for a few seconds in indecision
just over the dais. The G.-G. was handy,
and it was lucky for him that the thing
didn’t forget its manners.
Mrs. Stein clapped a huge red poppy ou
the coils of her hair, and was clad in shining
pink. Mrs. Pearce was a demure little figure
in Paquin black. Her long, thin Senator
looks fit since his trip. Generals were all
over the place; and Admiral Grant gave a
rollicking air to his corner. Senior Aider-
man Jeffries wore all his official frills: his
wife was a mere black background. Solicitor
Arnold Westley, with more lace frills,
brought his pretty wife in a Paris gown of
white and silver. Poet Rupert Atkinson,
just home, had his small lady wreathed with
roses and a few chiffons. Councillor Luxton
wore khaki. There was a dazzling spread of
champagne supper in the council room, and
many speeches. The downstairs supper was
eaten round a punchbowl by the chattering
crowd. The organ—used to being petted like
a baby elephant by the Hennessys-—was
blotted out entirely by a curtain, and Kirby
sang in front of a rainbow fountain.
Birdwood had a snack with the Common-
wealth Government at Federal Parliament
House last week. A chill had fastened
Hughes to his home, so Navy Minister Cook
ehairmanned the gathering and solemnly
pounded the guest with bouquets. Frank
Tudor joined in the riot of effusive oratory,
and Pearce discoursed on various generals’
war service, with special emphasis on those
who had been citizen officers. Birdy, who
had been letting off innumerable speeches
since his arrival, returned the fire of com-
pliments at almost everybody bar the ushers.
His remarks, however, were not the cus-
tomary scrambled impromptus, but had been
nicely typed for the use of the press. There
was plenty of liquor, and some cheerful souls
won the bubble reputation at the flagon’s
mouth. One reveller insisted on shouting a
round of drinks for the police. Perhaps
they deserved it; the celebration, which
started at eight, lingered on to 11.30 or
thereabouts.
The luncheon given to Birdwood by the
Diggers’ League at the Grand did both
parties and the new management of the
hotel credit. The menu was rich in mar-
tial phraseology, and miniature guns and
aeroplanes were scattered about the tables.
Birdwood, Monash and Chauvel, who have
become patrons of the League, were pre-
sented with membership badges and Digger
compliments. Birdy had to leave before the
arrival of the icecream to visit Caulfield
Hospital, but first insisted upon shaking
hands with everybody. The warrior has a
tendency to place his hand on the shoulder
of every male he meets on the off chance
that he may be an Anzac.
George Buchanan, just dead, was a genial
soul who will be much missed. In his youth
he was by way of being a society entertainer
with an adaptable touch on the piano. A
Scotchman with a thick burr, he married the
equally Scotch squatteress Miss Robertson,
owner of some noted racehorses. Thereafter
he helped to manage his wife’s numerous
interests. She was an ardent war-worker,
and George acted as organiser of several big
Red Cross and Comforts Fund shows. They
lived in Ardoch, one of the few big houses
in East St. Kilda which are still homes.
Norman Bayles, who left for England by
the Orsova with his dame (she is his second
wife), has been telling his friends that he
will leave politics after one more term in
the Assembly, if Xoorak will be gracious
enough to return him that once. The recast-
ing of seats may not, however, provide such
a pocket borough as he has now. When it
was mischievously suggested that he should
transfer his affections to the House of the
Graves, Norman shuddered.
The Molesworth Greenes get an Australian
Governor in the family: Sir William
Allardyce, who follows Newdegate in Tas-
mania, married Constance Angel, the second
daughter. That was in ’95. when Allardyce,
after years of slow climbing, had got pretty
near the top of the public-service tree in
Fiji. From the Pacific Islands he was sent
to the Falklands, and from there to the
Bahamas; and he’s just on GO now.
Mrs. Douglas (she was the late surgeon
Fitzgerald’s second daughter) is going back
to India and her General by the Orsova.
Mrs. Douglas is a sister of Mrs. Norman
Bayles. The latter nearly ulue pencilled
her trip owing to the illness of the son-
and-heir; but he is now himself again.
The Bob Knox pair have acquired John
Sanderson’s picturesque Toorak bungalow
Brie Brie, which was the scene of Captain
Conant’s Red Cross film.
Gen. Birdwood is cousin to Carre-Riddell,
chairman of the Vic. Met. Board of Works.
Riddell is one of Birdy’s front names.
Mrs. Leckie gave a Lyceum Club party
to farewell little Mrs. Monty Grover, off by
last week’s boat to London. Politician
Leckie came in to give his hostess wife a
hand. It was only fair, as she motored all
over the Indi electorate with him and helped
to mend punctures. The lady hostessed in
filmy baby-blue and ivory. An assortment
of Lindsays and a large general in mufti
took up a lot of the room.
Sister Hilda F. Jones is to be pinned to
a Royal Red Cross by the Viceroy of India
for conspicuous dis-
regard of her own
comfort during the
war. She was a
member of the first
Australian nursing
unit of 50 sent for
service in India in
1916, and she and
two others hung on
for three years amid
unusual hardships.
Sister Jones was
first stationed at the
Hislop AVar Hos-
pital at Secundera-
bad, and subse-
quently shone on the
staff of the military
hospitals at Deolali
and Bangalore. The
heat invalided her home in May last year,
but tWo or three weeks back she, hurried off
to Colombo to try a course of matrimony
with Captain Greeley, R.A.M.C. The
adjacent photo of Sister Jones comes from
a Bangalore camera.
Commander Macdonald (he was “Wireless
Mac” in Rabaul) lias been flying about over
the bav with his small wife in an air ’bus
built for two. This new angel business is
moving very fast.
The Keating family has given up hope
of Tasmania and the joys of Seamander
beach, and is making shift with Black Rock
for this summer.
The Monash dame, still a very sick woman,
has retreated to lona, the Monash home in
Toorak, and various welcome parties are
postponed.
A swell Collins-street cafe was the other
evening the venue of a thrilling encounter
between an infuriated waiter and a diner. The
semi-sozzled citizen had been making loud
complaints throughout the early stages of
his dinner, the efforts of his male friends
to induce him to shut up proving futile. At
last an epithet which he used caused the
serying-man to announce: “You’re a gentle-
man, sir, and I’m a waiter; but if you say
that again I’ll deal with you.” He repeated
the remark, and the waiter promptly took
a hand and dealt. The scrap did not last
long, and several diners who reckoned that
the waiter was entitled to help himself pre-
vented managerial interference. There was
a brief vision of a human tornado moving,
to an accompaniment of falling crockery and
feminine squeals. Then the gentleman \\ ho
wasn’t a waiter was removed for repairs,
while the management proceeded to compute
its losses represented by a vast quantity of
ruined crockery and glassware and a number
of partly-consumed and unpaid-for dinners
abandoned by agitated or economical clients.
Gisborne and Macedon are to have a lux-
urious golf house—sort of country club. A
rich bookie is at the back of the venture, and
already the matron is ordering £lOOO worth
of silver and linen.
Years and years ago, at Bendigo, there
was a De Garis who once told the writer
that the hardest thing he had to do was to
keep irrigation out
of the sermons he
preached in his
Methodist taber-
nacles. Evidently
that patriarch leav-
ened the whole tribe,
for in the 30-year
history of irrigation
along the Murray
there is never a
page wherein a De
Garis isn’t men-
tioned. Nowadays
one of the family;
C.J., blows the trum-
pet from January to
December, and if
there’s an ear in
Australia that hasn’t
heard of the virtues
of Australian Dried Fruits it is hopelessly
deaf. Alongside is a small picture of this
energetic member of the valuable tribe that
teaches Australia the value of its own good
products.
Adelaide watches the merry-go-round :
Birdwood’s transit through Adelaide was
strictly non-official, in accordance with his own
wishes. A few heads met his train at the Adelaide
station, and biggish crowds —mostly Diggers—cheered
him on his Way to and from Government House, but
there was no attempt at a reception. Adelaide is
saving its cheers for his reappearance on March 6.
Marjorie, elder daughter of Alfred Wells, is engaged
to Dick Yeatman, a recently-returned Light Horse-
man. Marjorie is the presiding genius of the local
S.P.C.A.
The Governor’s good-byes have begun. The Execu-
tive Council journeyed to Marble Hill, for its last-
meeting, taking its wives and daughters, and lunched
with his Ex.; the Chamber of Commerce had a
good-bye snack on Friday; and invitations are out
for a last garden-party at Government, House on
February 6.
Victor Hood, putting in a few days here on his
way to Sicily, is the guest of the Tom Barr Smiths
at Aldgate.
Mayoress Hackett asked the members of her Red
Cross Sewing Guild to afternoon tea, invited repre-
sentative men and women (mostly women) to meet
the British Women’s Delegation at the Town Hall
on Thursday, and then left for Melbourne for the
Birdwood festivities. At the British Women’s meet-
ing Mrs. Simm was chief speaker. On Tuesday she
and Miss Chomley lunched with his Ex. at Marble
Hill.
For some obscure reason hansom-cabs have never
been considered “quite nice” by Adelaide women,
and none but the daring drove in the antique things.
The city possessed only two at its worst, and now
one has been burnt, so all the girls are feeling safer.
Anne Donnell, a returned A.I.F. nurse who has
seen war service at Lemnos, Egypt, England and
France, is to be matron of the Anzac Hostel at
Glenelg. She will have as her second-in-command
Sister Stow, a S. Australian who was in England
when war broke out, and who signed on and off
on August 4 —-with a five years' interval of service
between.
The Red Cross Society is bemoaning the loss of its
hon. secretary, Kathleen Kyffin, Thomas, who has held
the post since the very early days of the war and
ohly gives it up under stern orders for rest.
The Dick Butlers have gone for a trip -to England
-—the ex-Premier’s first visit since he came to Aus- i
tralia as a small child of four. *
Pianist Carlein Jurs is bound for a trip to
America, and Ivy Phillips, a local contralto who has
just had a round of successful concerts in the
eastern States, is to go with her. Miss Jurs was
accompanist for Peter Dawson on the last tour of
his homeland.
Westminster, the big English school, has claimed
a kind of brotherhood with our St. Peter’s. “St.
Peter’s College, Westminster,” is the full and cor-
rect name of the London institution, and Bishop
Short, an old boy of it, had this in mind when he
founded the Adelaide school. So the English one
has expressed a wish for friendly association, and
as a start has sent a proof-engraving of a new
painting by F. Roe of the boys at afternoon prayers
in “the dormitory of the monks, which has been
our ‘Big School’ since 1590.”
E. H. Limbert, dead rather suddenly at 56, was
a lawyer who came little into the limelight except
in connection with the Anglican Synod; but he did
a lot of charitable work, and had not long finished
a term of two years as mayor of suburban Norwood.
The City Council, sitting in judgment on its
Town Hall, condemns it. But it does not wish to
be found strutting through mortar when the Prince
of Wales comes, and t..ere is no chance of getting
a satisfactory reconstruction finished before. So the
building l is to have a coat of paint, and come up
for judgment again later.
Pressman Monty Grover’s daughter is
now Mrs. Staples, and is oif to ‘'the islands”
with hubby. The bridegroom is Hoilnung’s
representative over the blue horizon.
Meat-king Angiiss, who married late in
life, has received no end of congratulations
upon the birth of a daughter. At the send-
olts to Arthur Robinson, fellow-members of
Parliament almost forgot the principal guest
in felicitating Angiiss, and then speculated
upon the number of million dollars the
youngster would inherit.
Mrs. McGillicuddy gave a baby-worship
party at her Brighton house last week with
her own blue-eyed infant in the lead. Mrs.
Finn, wnoin Australia knows best as Dolly
Castles, was another proud mother. She
taxied her month-old infant from St. Kilda
to the garden of excitement. Dolly was mar-
ried in New York from the house of Dr.
McGillicuddy’s sister.
Melbourne studios are ruffled oyer the com-
missioning of S. Webb to paint ex-Gaud
Mayor Cabena’s portrait. As a rule artists
don’t grudge one another a £5OO job; but in
this case they clamor to know whether the
choice of the artist to do this frequent and
well-paid municipal job is delegated to a
competent authority. There is already one
example of Webb’s art in the municipal
gallery—his portrait of the ex-Mayoral
Hennessy.
Artist Tom Roberts is back in Melbourne
and will hang a show in March. He has
been living abroad for 10 years. His talk
to old friends is much about a tall soldier
son who lately got safely back after fighting
in Russia. He enlisted at 18. Roberts him-
self, being too old to fight, slaved as an
orderly in a London hospital. Mrs. Roberts
is still in England. Bhe is an Australian—
a daughter of Williamson, of the Craig-
Williamson drapery firm. Australian visi-
tors grow 1 eloquent about the beauty of the
Robertses’ home at Hampstead Gardens,
which suburb they pioneered.
Pianist Nora Delaney is in dock w'ith a
damaged ankle, acquired through slipping
from the rocks at the Sorrento back beach.
The accident necessitated her removal to
Melbourne.
The “turn” which is billed at the Bijou
as “The Singing Parson” may be a dinkum
sky-pilot, but Ins raiment, though he buttons
his collar at the back, is unconvincing. The
cut and fit of liis clothes are too near per-
fection for a mere gentleman, much less a
parson. He favors an outfit such as Fred
Niblo would don were he called upon to im-
personate a clergyman. His boots are beau-
tiful, pointed, shiny anomalies, for divinity
and shapely ends are invariably strangers;
and were it not for the solemn assurance of
the Fullers’ publicity agent, most people
would diagnose Mr. Gorman as a showman
acting as a parson. Before telling the most
innocuous story, he mentions, with the air of
a fearless iconoclast daring the world, the
flesh and the Devil, that he is “one of those
peculiyar parsons who reckon there’s as much
ree-ligion in making folks laugh as in telling
them abart Hell” —a remark which w'ins the
applause to which high moral courage is
entitled. The performer most resembles a
parson (of an old-established brand) in his
moments of coyness. He has been informed,
he announces, that a young lady in front to-
night doubts if he is a genuwine parson;
but if the young lady wants to mai’ry the
young man who has paid for her seat she
has only to come behind after the show 1 a’
he will prove that he is a genuwine parson.
This little speech invests him with the price-
less character of a “card” : and when a per-
son in clerical habiliments is suspected by an
unsophisticated audience of being “a card.”
it matters not though his stories wear the
whiskers of eld and his songs the white
nightie of blameless futility.
When last heard from. Jennie Brenan and
her sister were in New York taking lessons
from the famous Maurice and his partner
Florence Walton. The Australians w T ere
t paying 75 dollars an hour, and counted
themselves lucky to be able to do it. Maurice
is the acknowledged authority on ballroom
dances, and the Brenans were the second
pupils of the new season. In spite of Pro-
hibition the cabarets are as crowded as ever,
half the population being dancing mad. The
Brenans were to go on to London to look
out any ballroom novelties that may be
hiding there. They are due back in Mel-
bourne early in March.
At a concert given recently by the State
School children of a small Western Dis-
trict townsmp, one of the performers wore
a quaint early-Victorian dress. The gar
ment had lain in the depths of an old trunk
for decades till it was unearthed by the
school-girl enthusiast. There are still
treasures for the collector w T ho has time
to tour the bush. In the same village the
oldest inhabitant still treasures china aid
pottery a hundred years old.


:
iJS?
. *■? " 7"
> i
1 : &:i
m
m
II
- • ''WS^Si'sfs V?' 1 /
■■, •• • .
n
iSfe
\:/■:
s*«waßm
• !
mmSi
' ;«;*
sSWS
< • ■!
*
:toA-
* ’
8®
> :
■
C 5-:
4
Av
a:
MS
HI
m
IPS ■■
mi
ss
m
The word pelaco on your Collar means
more than ordinary satisfaction. It stands
for quality that is proverbial; durability
that is not matched; value that is paramount.
Obtainable throughout A ustralia.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ĥgh
ToH.NL
George V
CHAMPAGNE
W'/y;
$1
H 3
CHAMPACHt
QiaiicsllcidsitfK
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Did
you?
fa
m ■
*vWV.\-;
lack Polish
•■- ■ >
S^^OfSS
tCAmifFW?
t?)r Patent. Olace
km
' Ibnni
PI
t.
RUNNING
COSTS.
Tour motoring costs will be lessened
if you fit the L&R Auxiliary Oiler to
your Ford. Talk it over with your
Garageman to-day.
Descriptive Folder from —
Bennett 8 Barkell
Limited,
Meagher Street, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Distributors for
Australia.
Women who realise how
much their tast ? ana
smartness a e judg a
by their gloves insis on
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
—ttie long wearing eco-
nomical gloves, whi n
mean real dre smess
and beauty. S Id with
a guarantee—yet they
cost no more than si k
gloves without a guar-
antee.
Insist on Vanity
!• uir S lk Gloves.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Any old rags? The Randwick lady on
Saturday looked as though she’d had the
pick of an old-clo’ shop, and had made up
her costume of odds and ends of the year's
left-overs. Nearly everybody had that be-
tween-seasons look which deepened to an end-
of-the-world expression when Maorilander
Cherry Day flashed ahead of the field, and
lovely woman realised that she might have
had £l7 9s. for her ten-bob tote ticket if
only—-
Although the day was “off” in everything
save the weather, with a wind like wine
and the beds of salvia scarlet rippling against
the emerald velvet of the grass it was im-
possible to be down-hearted even though one
hadn’t picked a single winner. Here and
there a well-appointed woman broke the
serried ranks of mediocrity. The smartest
navy-blue costume had rows of closely-placed
square mother-o’-pearl buttons outlining the
shoulder seams, studding the cuffs and
clanking down the side seams of the skirt.
Under the long coat the slim wearer showed
a white ninon blouse whose high collar fin-
ished only at the lobe of the ear. One cold-
climate miss wore a suit of heather-like mix-
ture built on the Norfolk plan, and added an
intriguing feather close to a skull top-
piece that might have stepped straight from
“Chanticleer.” Near the tote a tall woman
severely tailored in navy, with an arresting
cerise waistcoat, wore for headgear the best
part of a duck —certainly there was the
wing and the breast and a piece of the tail.
In the official stand interest was centred
in the almost brand-new Watson and Jaques
brides. The first was in the shimmer of
white crfpe de chine; the second, with an
adoring husband always within arm’s length,
chose rose pink with a fortune in rich silk
fringe. Mrs. Watson carries a heavyweight
of good looks and a tall, .upstanding figure,
the Marks complexion and a delightful nose.
“But not so radiantly lovely as Irene Marks
was,” the dowager is careful to tell you. The
giants always lived in the former time. Mrs.
Kingscote was there in cream tailorings;
Mrs. Adrian Knox wore black and white
voile; Mrs. Floyd brought convalescing
daughter Nora in a soft black toque that
looked like Broadway; MrS. Hugh Munro
wore feathers in her bonnet; pretty Mrs.
Clayton tied her black hat with ribbons
under her chin; Mrs. Spencer Brunton was
very handsome and Roinney-looking in soft
black satin ; and Mrs. Maxwell-Scott pinned
her faith to face values and was not dis-
appointed.
The Davis Cup proved the greatest com-
plexion trial Sydney has ever known. The
stands were completely unprotected from
wind and rain, and a filthy stretch of weather
settled down for the whole period of the
match, its postponements and its interrup-
tions. One day last week, when a sudden
wash-out emptied the stands, a small for-
tune in rouge and powder ran down in little
rivulets and settled in the curves of tne
chin. She was a happy woman who could
scuttle to the seclusion of her car and didn t
have to brave the argus-eyed tram.
With the full sweep of the Harbor before
their eyes, amid wide lawns that blossom
here and there to pleasant garden-plots, 24
badly-wounded soldiers and sailors will live
out their days in Canonburj, which has
been fitted up for them by the A.J.C. On
Friday Governor Davidson, in simple and
sympathetic words, announced that the
home was open to its soldier-guests, of whom
a number already in residence listened from
their wheeled chairs and cots. Matron Kirk-
caldie, who has a great record of hospital
transport work to her credit, and her staff
of army nurses tried not to blush when Sir
Walter spoke of them as tremendous sports-
men. Colin Stephen, who passed their
Exes, a word of thanks and a book of views
of Canonbury. gave Adrian Knox credit for
having first thought of the home as a fit-
ting gift for the soldiers.
Earnest Red Crossers and war-workers
and a sprinkling of the Navy and the Army
made up the guests. Lady Davidson, very
graceful ih black, spent the time talking to
the invalids. Mrs. Gordon Wesche, Mrs.
Mackinnon and Eadith Walker hovered
around like guardian angels; Captain Glos-
sop came with his tall wife, who wore a cab-
bage-rose in the front of her hat. J. O.
Fairfax, General Herring, Brig.-General
Lee and his wife, several Knoxes, Sam Hor-
dern, A.J.C. secretary Cropper and Alex-
ander McCormick, not to speak of aide
Lamb, correct from his clipped moustache to
the dull kid of his footwear, were some who
drank tea in the marquee that had all the
flaps towards the water-front turned hack.
Harry Rickards built Canonbury when he
was at the height of his fame as a s oi\ < •
He ran it, as far as was practicable inn ew
of the democratic ways of the natives, on the
lines of a baronial hall of He
dressed and played the role of the elderly
nobleman with great assiduity. It was a
glittering moment for the croud when Hair
emerged from the Tivoli after the s
tall hat, an opera cloak, a , tren } e “! j' u
expanse of shirt-front in the centre of which
blazed a diamond, and what the novelists call
“a faultless evening suit’ T'Yl th , th fu e V
an ebony cane, he would stride forth, hai d
his wife into the family chariot and stand
for a moment while the populace adorned.
Then in a clear voice came the worctsi
“Home, John!” and the equipage rumbled
off His garden parties were run on similar
lines. The setting for them was exquisite.
The house looks towards the Heads and the
grounds reach to the waterside.
Bong Bong was more fashionable and
metropolitan than ever this year, but it still
manages to retain the rural touch. As tin;
field turned into the straight in the first race
it was met head on by five cows and a dog.
It was understood to be a device to di»-
tinguish the function from an ordinary hum-
drum Randwick affair. The clerk of the
course was interviewed by the riders aftei -
wards and warmly congratulated.
The G.-G. will hold an investiture at Fede-
ral Government House next month, when
George Fuller will have the visible and out-
ward sign of his K.G.M.G. handed to him.
A gymkhana at Moss Vale for the local
hospital was quite a vice-regal family affair.
Lady Davidson came to bless. Diana won
the race open to girls on ponies under 14
hands, and Daphne came second in the
children’s riding competition, tying with
Violet Robins. His Ex.’s prize for the lady
winning tTie most events went to Margaret.
Allen.
St. Vincent’s hung out several cables-
length of illuminations the other evening as
a sign that its nurses were at home. Most
of them had left starched cap and apron
and thermometer behind them and arrayed
themselves in wild-looking garments war-
ranted to daunt the most adventurous germ.
The stage was set at the top of the quad-
rangle, and the quad, itself was brimful, the
overflow glimpsing the stage through the
arches of the surrounding balconies. Sand-
wiched between the first and second spasm
of the entertainment was the presentation
of prizes and certificates by Dr. O’Gorman
Hughes, and a statement by secretary Harley
McLaughlin that the entertainment would
clear f 1500; and as that goes to pay interest
on the nurses’ home, the institution says
“three cheers.”
This is what May Moore thinks of Grace
Scobie, who is going to be a Soldiers and
Citizens’ candidate
for the State As-
sembly at the next
election. There
have been two or
three instances of
the son following
the father in that
House, but thus far
not one of a daughter
taking the parent’s
place. Great, warm-
hearted Robert
Scobie spent years
and years at Menin-
die ; and when he at
last stood for Par-
liament fie got about
95 p.c. of the votes
polled in his own
neighborhood. Even
in those days Grace was his helper; and she
has done fine work since for the Labor De-
partment, in which she is an inspector.
War-sister Mary Farquar Gibson took
charge of Charles Helsham’s 0.8. E. on
Friday last. The bride was all tones of pale
grey, and bridesmaid Rua Farquar was m
cream net and lace, while Grafton _ I_urves
best-manned the matrimonial brig. Bride-
groom left his 15-year-old job as secretary
to the Sydney Hospital in IUI4 to go to the
wars, and kept there till the Armistice was
signed. His present job is superintendent of,
the N.S.W. Red Cross.
Lyndall Solomon, daughter of City Trea-
surer Solomon, married surgeon Ealon, ot
the R.A.N., the other evening in the garden
of her own home, Merton, in Macleay-street.
There were no bridesmaids to distract atten-
tion from pretty Lyndall. who wore dainty
white satin and silver. The hundred guests
who feasted in the marquee on the lawn,were
received by the bride’s mother, who wore
black satin and jet. Medlow sees the honey-
moon.
White-satined was Joan Fenwicke last
week when she married young Nivison, ot
Ohio station, at St. Andrew s, \Y alcha,
where a procession of bridesmaids— leggy,
Nancy and Eleanor Fenwicke and Aorma
Nivison—followed the bridal train of net and
silver tissue. All Walcha was bidden to the
feast. Both Nivisons and Fenwickes are in
the wide-acre class.
Maie Ingham, of Cremorne Point and
Raymond Terrace, has given her promise to
William Tatham, of Eltham, Edgecliff.
Will's sister is Mrs. Lyster Ormsby.
Tennis-player A. B. Jones linked up with
Decima Dawson at All Saints’, \\ oollahra,
on Saturday evening. Alf was the brilliant
tennis champion of the days that fell just
before the war, and he got away with one of
the first batteries. With innumerable mixed,
doubles and singles championships to his
name, and a previous Davis Cup selection
to his credit, he might easily have been
among the latest Davis Cup defenders but
for a heavy dose of German gas.
Major George Wootten, D. 5.0., the Dun-
trooner who finished the war on Douglas
Haig’s staff and has since been at the Staff
College, was married on January 3 to
Muriel, eldest daughter of J. Kirwan Bis-
good, of Itoehampton, Blighty. Judging by
her portrait, which was in the Tatler of
October 13 last, she is a very pretty girl.
Mrs. Lane, a war widow, daughter of Mrs.
Maclurcan. of the Wentworth, is to be mar-
ried to-day (Jan. 29) to Lieut. Postle, just
back from the war. Before enlisting he was
manager of the savings bank at Marrickville.
Honeymoon in Maoriland.
This is the newest picture of Francie
Alda—Adler when she sang in her native
Australia earlier
this centur y. She
was more famous
for her exquisite
hair, skin and
teeth than for her
art until Rupert
Clarke and some
others eminent in the
theatrical business
proclaimed that she
was a genius in
posse. Now she is
the unchallenged star
of the New York
Metropolitan Opera
House, and the wife
of its manager. The
photo ca m e home
with the Roland
Fosters.
Good-looking Stella Wheeler, of Mosman,
who toured the North with Mrs. J. S. Robert-
son, is sporting some priceless diamonds in
a ring that came from the dearest man in
the world —Ralph Bond, who is immersed in
oil. The marriage takes place in October,
and the household gods are to be set up in
Shanghai.
Still another Sydney girl travelling north
has met the man who had been looking for
her. Eileen Keys, a daughter of the Irving
Iveys, went up that way a few months back
with her dncle. Quortian Deloitte, and at
Kuala Lumpur stayed with Mr. and Mrs.
Eyre-Ivenny—the latter was Christabel
Weigall, daughter of the old head of Sydney
Grammar. Whilst she was there John
Straton Ferrier, of Selangor, F.M.S., per-
suaded the girl to accept a gorgeous engage-
ment-ring. He is to follow her to Sydney
in April, when the wedding will take place.
The earnest Miss Geach flung wide the
banner of revolt against the soaring potato
and the banana with aspirations at a meeting
of the Housewives’ Association held at North
Sydney last week. What is wanted, the
association says, is an open market-squai’e
where fruit and vegetable and other stalls
may be set up, and the housekeeper, basket
on arm, may make her own purchases and
cut out the greengrocer man who brings the
meagre supply of wilted luxuries to the back
door. The State Government is to be
approached on the matter. Agricultural Miss
Brace and Captain Carmichael expressed
their complete approval, and Mayor Watson,
who presided, said “Hurray.”
Major Synnott is homeward bound on the
Tofua. When he went away as an artillery
subaltern at the end of 1915 he was an
architect in embryo. After the Armistice he
took a course in England and emerged a
fully-qualified member of the Institute or
Union or -whatever it is.
A late homecomer in khaki is S. Elliott
Napier, wearing a sergeant’s stripes on his
arm and such tan on his face that his grace-
ful Muse of olden days won’t recognise him in
a hurry. Not that the Muse was ever very
friendlv: he neglected her too much for his
absurd' law-books. Naturally on the voyage
of the Wafiehe there had to be a Boome-
rang, and just as naturally Elliott Napier
had it in his charge.
The cable which mentioned the disappear-
ance of £12.000 worth of jewels from the
Grosvener Square flat of Lady Loughborough
(Harry Chisholm’s beautiful daughter
Sheila) was hardly explicit enough. It didn’t
state, for instance, that they were hers.
Her husband inherited a modest fortune from
his mother —she was Miss Tyner and an
heiress when she married Lord Rosslyn 30
years ago—but he is not much more dis-
posed, by temperament, to the virtues of
thrift than his father. It never did run in
the Erskine family. And, besides, at latest
advices the Loughboroughs were in Ireland
—the Mecca of tne English leisured classes
these days.
It is one of the marvels of social inter-
course that jewel-disappearances are not ten
times commoner than they are. Three women
out of five look on their own homes as a
sort of bank strong-room apparently, and
leave their most costly and portable articles
lying casually about on dressing-tables or in
unlocked drawers. All sorts of neople visit
the house or stay in it—old friends, new
friends and probationary friends. Some are
affluent, some are broke. When a hand-
ful of diamonds or half a pint of
pearls mysteriously vanishes there is an
uproar. The police are called in. They
take notes. The detectives found in a Belle-
vue Hill case some years ago that, though
the jewels had been removed during the
night, though there were gardens all round
the house and though it had been raining
hard, yet there were no footmarks anywhere.
Smiling cynically, wearily, they withdrew.
The trouble about such episodes is that they
usuallv cast suspicion on some possibly inno-
cent character. The maddened lady, going
on “instinct,” decides that Mrs. Jones is the
culprit, whereas, really, it is Mr. Smith.
Mrs. Jones is slighted, if she is not insulted;
and the family loses a friend as well as its
property.
There was a genuine jewellery sensation
last week, when about £5OOO worth of dia-
monds and pearls belonging to Mrs. Stewart
Dawson vanished from the Carlton Hotel.
Usually these are but dud affairs. The
bov-reporter unearths “a great jewel rob-
bery” in Edgecliff. Mrs. Brown-Brown, of
Soupe-liashe, the fashionable boarding
establishment, is found in a distracted con-
dition and interviewed. It is disclosed that
she has lost gold ornaments, diamonds, sap-
phires and other articles valued, in all, at
£l5 10s. Mrs. Dawson’s is the first Sydney
catastrophe of the kind for years past in
which the alleged damage has represented
over £lOO.
Mrs. Jimmy Osborne is making another of
her periodical trips to America, where her
father and brother live. She last went five
years ago; and she took her small boy Bed-
ford with her then as she is doing now.
She is as handsome and as beautifully
dressed as ever, but mostly wastes it all on
the desert air of Gundaroo, the family sheep
run up Yass way.
The Lang girls came down from Newcastle
for the Davis Cup, and sheltered under the
roof tree of Aunty Charlie Warren at Park
Lane Mansions. While the war was on, the
Langs were in the Big Smoke lending a will-
ing hand.
Travellers say that Norman Menzies Jias
bought the old Commercial, corner of King
and Castlereagh streets, and intends to run
a Menzies’ in Sydney.
A note from Roland Foster:—
In stating that my system of breathing exercises
has been adopted by the Royal College of Music,
London, A Woman’s Letter (B. 22/l/’2O) gives me
undue credit. Walter Ford is actually responsible
for the system introduced there, but, finding our
ideas much the same, has paid me the compliment
of adding a number of my exercises to his own, and
warmly* acknowledging their value.
The art union for the chest of household
linen given by Mrs. Harry Austin to help
the funds of St. Vincent’s was drawn at
the Repertory Theatre last week under the
eagle eye of Speaker Levy, and now a Miss
Arthand, of Darlinghurst, is the envied of all
housekeepers in the city.
Humphrey Browning, who had a brilliant
career with the 13th Battalion in France,
has bought into John Mclntosh’s solicitor's
business in Bathurst. He is a son of the
Crown Prosecutor, and is related on his
mother’s side to the Lambs and Dangars.
Bathurst has its full share of ex-soldiers of
high rank. Two of the doctors, Clive
Thompson and Brooke Moore, were lieut-
colonels, and the Edgley boys became majors.
Lord Lonsdale, who had a bad fall from
a horse lately, has the same tendency
to drop off things as Australia’s old friend
Lord Brassey. But he takes more chances,
being one of the keenest hunting-men for
his age in England. He was in Sydney with
his wife during the rdgime of his friends
the Tennysons ; and. of course, they put him
up. The stocky, dapper, sporting-looking
nobleman with the ginger side-whiskers pre-
sented a severe contrast to his sombre and
angular spouse. He went to every _ race-
meeting that occurred during his visit, in-
cluding Itosehill and “the ponies.”
Arnold Mote, whose compositions, with
those of other Australians, filled the bill at
a recent Conservatorium concert, began
writing music before his pants got past his
knees. A now defunct children’s paper,
Young Australia, offered a prize for the
best musical setting to the hymn “Rock of
Ages.” Arnold’s was far and away the best
sent in—it was so good that the then organ-
ist of St. Andrew’s (the late Montague
Younger) had it scored for the choir, and
it was often sung at evening sendee. The
surprising youngster was not then even in
his teens.


«
b"i 1
m
■J
■ 59?*- ■
I
I
Hi
I i
■
«
:
Swift. «,.iJi
»'»- ->. t
.' / fbbfK-A< ' a -% ~
. :' 1
« § j II ■> iSI - M
,'-■ •: <>'
' ;
. ' ■ ■ ..
" '""" : '' “ '"" ' "'""‘ y «' M ‘ £ '** ***
■■ ■ ■
. ■SH : .
' '
' '■ s : - •
THE BETTER MUSICIAN YOU ARE
THE MORE YOU WILL APPRECIATE
the beetle
Happy Hours 'with
oA cjßedle layer-^iano
MANY and happy are the hours
you will spend in company
with your Beale Player-Piano. It will
provide that relaxation at the end of
a hot, tiring day, which you both
need and would enjoy.
A perfectly controlled technique en-
ables you to choose at will among the
choicest gems of time-tried master-
pieces, or enjoy the merry lilt of the
latest musical comedy.
All this in a piano of full, rich, reso-
nant tone, that in six seconds can be
closed for the technically proficient
musician.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
Showrooms:
333 George Street
Sydney
Factory:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle,
Goulbum, Wagga. Victoria: Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South
Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland: 90-92 Queen St.,
Brisbane ; Kent Street, Maryborough ; Flinders Street, Townsville;
Rockhampton ; Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns.


‘THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above .
is the titles
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COl’Y
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—■
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
u
i
1
mm
■ ■
y
1\’ ;
E W
:
53 ’
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
180 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Mothersills
CI^RES
THE
CHARMS
K
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the unquali-
fied endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
i from the world's greatest men, women
and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Small Boxes.
Remedy Co., Ltd., -ji
Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEV RETURNED
y
THE SEIF VULCANIZING
PATCH
WILL REPAIR ,
ANY SIZE PUNCTURE ,
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL OARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
EE2SE
p
4
THE WORLDS
$$3 BEST VALUE
3
BBBEEBaSBSBESSBHSSC
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
aad How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
fe-.-—_--dt
as* 8 0
n
L
i
! 4
Buyers in other States
write tor Special
Freight Terms and
our Fine Catalogue.
The TEXAS No. 90
This Texas Saddle we are
making in our own work-
rooms, and it is giving satis-
faction wherever we send it.
The price is considerably
lower than any imported
saddle.
It is made in heavy brown leather and the horn is
forged steel. The seat and cantle are in one piece
of heavy leather and the skirts lined with felt. The
fittings are 2in. stirrup leathers, to which are
attached broad fenders, wooden stirrups, and two-cord
girths or cinchas.
£9/17/6
Freight Free for Cash to any
N.S.W. Port or Station on the
N.S.W. Railway System.
WE ALSO STOCK AMERICAN-MADE
TEXAS SADDLES —Write for Particulars.
K’BURRA
STOCKWHIPS
POST FREE FOR CASH.
BfegSHC
SdlH
00
OOM
00M
THONGS, 12-plait .. .. 7ft. 17/-, Bft. 19/6, 9ft. 21/6.
16-plait .. .. 7ft. 19/6, Bft. 22/-, 9ft. 24/6.
HANDLES for 7ft. and Bft. thongs, 15/6 and 17/6.
For 9ft. thongs, 17/- and 19/-.
The Perfect WINTON
THIS “WINTON” SADDLE is the
finest high-pad Australian type stock
saddle made. The combined flap and
skirt are seamed direct on to the seat
and there is no chafing such as occurs
when the ordinary skirt lying on the
top of the flap is used. The narrowest
possible grip is a great feature in
this saddie. The pads are set high up
along the rider’s thighs, giving the
greatest security for rough riding. The
tree is our own “Fouright”—the best
tree we make, and the fittings are
bevelled leathers, folded girth and
solid nickel stirrups.
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any Port
or Station on N.S.W.
Railway System.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG
CATALOGUE.
OUR HARNESS IS AS GOOD
AS OUR SADDLES.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
LTD.,
Saddlers & Polo Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
L
WINTON.
BOSTOCK’S PRY CLEANER
FOR
Wijit? & Colored Suedt&CatWaS Sbo«S.
CSSSESa
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS: —White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
sypNey.
00 That
Clip?
uj
That is just one feature of the famous
K.L.G. Plug. It is the patent, self-locking
terminal clip which ends at once all the
troubles experienced with the old-fashioned
terminal nut.
Remember there is a
K.L.G.
PLUG
for every size and make of engine, and the
harder the work the better they work. Dur-
ing the war the British Government used
2,000.000 every year, and would have used
more if they could have been manufactured.
It is an unbreakable one-piece plug possess-
ing all the advantages of detachable plugs
without their disadvantages.
Britain used them during the war—they were used in the trans-Atlantic flights.
SIR ROSS SMITH USED THEM.
YOU SHOULD USE THEM. ASK YOUR GARAGE.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for Australia
S. SMITH & SONS (MA.) LTD.,
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
And at 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
lio notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stumped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
D. F. Producer: But you’ve got to come
down to this —though Westralia has the largest
proportion of adult males among the States, its tax-
ation is the smallest; and that in spite of continu-
ous deficits. This fact robs'it of whatever sympathy
it would otherwise get in the East 5.N.0.: Too
long, and most of the ground has been covered. .. .
D.M.: Thanks; quite right. The 243,000,0001 b. of
wool in the grease exported in 1917-18 means
110,000 tons; so the position is 10 times worse
than was represented. . .William M.: Very poor start.
.... The Wanderer: Doesn’t appeal to us, but you
might place it elsewhere... .E.D.V.C.: “Hark, dear,
to the owl hoot.” We agree with the
owl G. A. Jones: “Camping at Tugun'
didn’t do us any good Harry Lambert:
Requires good treatment to make that line g 0... .
J.H.C.: Sorry; but the verses are d.b Featherbil:
Raw.... Ped: Write to Federal Statistician....
Sidbee: Your rhymes jar like a dentist’s dri11....
j.C.J.: Tell it to her just that way Marjorie H.:
Sorry to hear that you “dream the hours away.”
Try working them away and you’ll feel better....
jack A. W.: Go on the land, or somewhere....
J. :“I pad the hoof no more ; I take the train.”
Right; keep going. .. .Malcolm D.: Sorry; no use.
Basiel: Worst of the week’s swag Willow:
Oh, dear, dear! David Slow: True, David, true.
.. . . J.D.G.R.: “The Lucky Dog” is too mild a fable
to get a place here The Unknown: Can’t guess
what the last lines mean.... Eve M.: W itli a little
improvement they would grace a young lady’s album.
Beresford: “In Envy” walks the old road and
doesn’t do it with any special grace W.J.D.:
“Dead Sea Fruit” doesn’t score.... Thos. H.: No
use... Raphilomel: Here’s the “Butchered Rosebush”:
O Bush so bare! Bereft of charm!
Your last, sweet bud has come to harm;
Your last sweet flower’s taken.
On you will new buds appear?
Shall you bloom again next year?
Or must you then be barren?
But perhaps a decent rose hates you if you don’t
pick it.... Trevor B.: No use writing a second-rate
essay from encyclopaedias and sending it to us... .
Rex B.: Neither interesting nor particularly well
clone J.H.C.: Look at the last stanza in print:—
And yet, with all your dreaded power o’er us
Our mystic transport to an after life
We cast the gauntlet in your glutted teeth
And proclaim a readiness to your strife.
W.M.B.L.: “Dust” is fair verse; but is a dis-
mal statement like that worth makingChee-
wit: None of them quite N.F.S.: A statement of
that kind could only be worth while if made with
some noble violence Pourquoi: Too near the com-
monplace Doris H.: Not up D.P.M.: Ditto.
.... Charlie G.: Your pencil scrawl loses its way
too often L.M.W.: Have it your own way:—
And a dark girl’s smile 0 Child of my pain,
Drugged senses beguile Come home again,
Enticing. Speeding
God grant you grace To Australian loam
To honor our race O’er the wind-whip d foam
Rejecting. Homing Homing!
To which it seems only necessary to add:
And thus in verse Let it rise and sing
I here rehearse Ring-a-ting-ting-tmg
Telegram. Telephone!
“Telephone” is really rather a nice rhyme for
“telegram,” something like “wheelbarrow” for sack-
of-potatoes.” Anyhow', both are better than
“enticing” and “rejecting”... .Jim B.: Too clumsy
Mildred C.: Can’t believe that verses beginning
“Awake! Arise!” can be intended for anything but
a joke 11.M.G.: “Universe” doesn’t hit u 5....
K. : Praise of “scurulouse news-papers” rejected.
Knuckle: Thrilling item, but very bad verse
M.S.W.K.: Old stuff done in an old way. . . .E.M.K. :
Poor verse, and short of rhymes.... Ten Thousand
First Attempt Makers: Get this into your heads—
four lines demand four rhymes.... Claud D.: IV hat
on earth does it mean?
C.K.S.: Don’t cave for loose, blank verse of that
sort Arthur R.: Shocking !... .R.J.W.: The apples
don’t tempt us Robert II.: It won’t do Ellie
M.: Write about what you know; everybody knows
something worth telling. .. .Seig'illda: Can’t find the
alleged mirth P.H.C.: Verses not up. Get off
the track of the obvious Mary W.: You should
be able to place it elsewhere... .R.L.C.: Not for us.
. .. ,E.G.: Can’t find a place for “Clara”. . . .M.B.P.:
Don’t care for the “Pathway”....R.B. (Lake B.) :
Nice verse, but doesn’t say anything fresh or thrill-
ing F.B. (Canterbury): You couldn't have said
much less about it however j’ou tried F.E.W.:
Try us with something different. .. .M..J.M.: The end
spoiled in the telling J.M. (Sandringham): Not
much of an idea, and the verse wants ironing....
Nell T.: Doesn’t quite convince.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
I'.C.M.: But there are no cars visible. The swag-
man is merely pointing at a blank sky, or it
may be a whitewashed wall.... F.N.: Some advice
on the way M.W.: The smart cat in the chair is
short of features. More study... M.: kou’re
still many miles from home.....' r..: Not yet.
Peg away as cheerfully as you can.... Mrs. Bill J.:
Very clumsy. You’re only experimenting. .. ,S.H.:
Take away the distorted mother and drown the
horrible dwarf... .M.H.: Can’t do anything with
it. .. .H.R.B.: Not good measure... .Kay: You can’t
bathe here H.R.B.: Don’t want those youths with
the staring eyes. .. .R.McG.: Draw firmer and try
for more expression... .P.H.: It doesn’t twinkle.
J.O. : How old is that yarn? R.W.: Solemn
sort of thing M.G.: Keep that jest for the
battlefield S.R.H.: Most useless drawing this
year. . . .A.J.: Don’t want adaptations of gallery
pictures M.M.A.: Did you enclose the joke?....
Cider: The Art Editor takes rum J.McC.:
Squelched it.
The.tale of a mean street in Richmond: —
Dinnv was beating his mother again: he had
taken a leather belt to her. It appeared that Dinny
wanted money for beer, and his old mother, although
she had the cash, unreasonably withheld it. With
every stroke of the belt Dinny said: “Notv will you,
you old ?” And the old lady wouldn’t. Then
her neighbor on the right chipped in. “Give it
to him, Mrs. Dinny, why don’t you ?” said she.
Mrs. Dinny raised her face. “No,” she said firmly,
“rot till he says please!” And the larruping went on.
In abstract stare and furrowed brow,
Engrossed in profound muse,
Unconscious of admiring gaze
His robustness enthuse.
By Nature’s model and sculptor’s art,
His inspiring statue wrought;
A marvel of ingenious skill,
Symbolised to thought.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., I^td..
Tel.— City 4246. 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 11,
SONOMA.
10,090 Tons, .17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
li.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stuck 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. •
W. JT. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queens land.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman •
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(iNCOUPORATEn 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital • • • • • • £500,000
Reserve Fund . . .. • • • • 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1.820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Livernool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, January.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Pails and N'cw York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey aeross America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
HI ■'
m
.
HNmHrmIR
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
£4,000,000
3,200,000
4,000,000
£11,200,000
The lion. Sir Cnarles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand. I'.sq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.R.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the AVorld.
Commonwealth
m HEAD OFFICE
jus■
JBank ot Hustralta
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,1 62,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
....
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Huddart ParkerLiM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
I STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar Bail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorg'e Street, Sydney.
AAJ7sJM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” G5OO tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by B.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 4(>9 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"J"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Picturesque Route to Brisbane.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND 'RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 18s. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
11EA D OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. -All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
n
m
George hotel.
At. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
muPTUREX
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD. v
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR :
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co.' (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug- and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane,


The EDISON AMBEROLA
—don’t fail to hear it.
You’ll know exactly what good music really is
when you hear the Edison Amberola. It repro-
duces by means of the wonderful Edison Diamond
Stylus point, and the tone is remarkable for
smoothness and mellowness. There are no needles
to change and there is a complete absence of harsh
metallic sounds. You will vote the Amberola the
sweetest instrument you ever heard as well as
being the daintiest and handsomest on the market.
IN FINE GOLDEN OAK CABINET, £ll/10/-
There are other models to suit every buyer.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer for a demon-
stration, or write for illustrated Catalogue, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
/?
J&
Single Razo*, Vulcanite Handle,
10/0.
?air in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Shaving- with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZOR V
u .
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/C each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Kavy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN
I
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
Missing: Friends.
IF WILLIAM ALLAN, brother of James
Allan, late of Snowtown and Henley
Park, South Australia, last heard of as
being employed on a farm near Dubbo, New
South Wales, about 12 months ago, will
communicate with the undersigned, he may
hear of something to his advantage.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts, lilease
communicate with ELDER’S TRUSTEE
AND EXECUTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
Currie Street, Adelaide.
tF WILLIAM HENRY DANIELS, son of late Isaac
1 Daniels, of Northern Territory, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, will communicate with Mr. D. A.
ROBERTS, Solicitor, Darwin, or CHAMBERS, McNAB
& McNAB, Solicitors, 30 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
something to his advantage will be learnt.
Australian Mutual Es “
87 H pittStffsydney PfOVidglVtSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
NOTABLE PEARLS
are rare in every land. The demand for them at present the
world over is very great.
We are showing just now a large number of notable pearls—
unique gems of large sizes and great beauty.
They are many we gathered from the Fisheries, when prices
slumped to one-half. We will export them, but meantime are
showing them for a week or two.
One pair of buttons, 60 grains, are the finest in Australia.
Another round pearl of 68 grains is the largest in Australia.
Pearl Connoisseurs are invited to see them.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Pearl Strings a Specialty.
Whole I’earl Necklets from
£lO to £2OOO.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET
&
c/a
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
ygh
“.4 marvel at the pi-ice
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2>}lb ..
(Postugv—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
22/6
am
—. '
dO
_ •*Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1004 Model, for 22
short or lon.tr rim fire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, holt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37iin.: bend from sight, with patent alloyed tip.
wliicli will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/- ; other States, 3/8.)
47/6
ĝ
BIM, The Celebrated “Maine” Itifle, designed
for 22 .short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It cftn lie taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with tne same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b., fitted with plain V-baclc sight /.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/C; other States, 2/S.)
S'?
“Suitable for small game and target shooting”
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel;
length over all, 35in.; weight 4 Jlb.; slide action, blade gf /
front and serewrear sights Freight paid,
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
kg
'‘Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about o|lb^..
9 51-
ĝk
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. PRICE Bd. POST FREE
gkg
“.4 suitable weapon for the hop."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.l\,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
. 35
hjg
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sflb. &
Freight paid,
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water- and Moisture-proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman.
iNickelled.
Post free,
Slli
.--a**-
B14. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-cs(libi'e, central fire, full
balf magazine, 24in. barrel y weight, about 71b.
1892
With Hound Barrel freight paid.
With Octagon Barrel [Freight paid.
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, JiB92 Model.
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about ojlb. Freight paid,
£.6
£6/10/-
£5 15/-
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free \o any address.
1C
msmums greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
JEW TOBACCONISTS
kjhk
('ity Sports Depot
! p 9 King St, also at
i Newcastle £ Brisbane


Every Home Needs REXONA
u
Mr. CHAU. BLAND. (From a photo.J
I have been a user of
Rexona Ointment and Soap
for the last five months, and
would now use no other.
When I arrived home from
aetive service my skin was
very rough and blotchy. My
wife, who was using the
Soap for the three children,
recommended me to try the
ointment, and after using
the first small tin (1/6) my
skin was normal. We would
not be without either Rex-
ona Ointment or Soap in the
house at any time.
I have not yet tried your
Rexona Shaving Soap, but
intend to do so.
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
Chas. W. Bland,
late A.A.M.C.
“Doris Villa,”
Audley, National Park.
REXONA
1/6 and 51-
REXONA
SOAP 1/-
Rexona and Rexona
Soap More Popular
Than Ever.
All the world over everyone
likes the Rexona Remedies.
They are universal favorites
and never disappoint you.
Rexona is the Rapid Healer
and Rexona Soap is the facial
soap of the century. Care for
yourself by using- Rexona
and Rexona Soap, and your
skin and hair will reflect the
improvement from the first,
and you will delight yourself
as well as your friends.
Ilexona the Rapid Healer has always
been famous for its wonderful healing:
powers. Many people now thank Rexona
for skin health and comfort. It is a
reliable remedy for cuts, burns and all
irritations and eruptions of the skin.
Those who have once used Rexona
and Rexona Soap wonder how they ever
got along without them. So don’t for-
get to take a pot of Rexona the Rapid
Healer and a tablet of Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap home to-night.
Anh««ph« Qintmer*
ADaolufely
{ Heals J « e i,aDi«
ma
k
\
y;.
m
<•«»«** V
b^AJL
Z
SKIH
II
22
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for a<l Pens —Obtainable Everywhere
Noxious Weeds
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES, DOCKS
DOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
»
VAI
LO
BRAND
.WEED, SCRUB
% TREE KILLER
poison]
inn
YOUR STOREKEEPER
CAN SUPPLY
Every square foot of land is valuable
now-a-days—far too valuable to be taken
up by scrub and weeds. Why should
they sap the vitality out of ground which
should contribute to your storehouse or
granary ?
Have you a clearing problem—is any
of your land being usurped by undesir-
able weeds ? Then there’s no earthly
reason why they should remain there
any longer. You have a speedy, sure,
and economical means of cutting short
their existence.
"VALLO” Brand Weed
Scrub and Tree Killer
will clean them off like a bush fire, with
the difference that they go for good.
“Vallo” is not an experiment. It is an
absolute exterminator of any and every
kind of Noxious Growth. It’s demon-
strating its efficiency every day. Whether
your trouble be giant trees or common
sorrel put “ Vallo” on the job and you’ll
be impressed by what it can do.
Prices: 561b5., 70/-; 15 lbs., 21/3; 7 lbs., 10/6;
1 lb., 2/-; t lb., 1/3
Manufactured by A.Victor LeggO & G
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
Faery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PIXIES in the ferny hollow,
Brownies on the hill;
Every track we used to follow
Keeps its fairies still.
Only we have left our places
Desolate and cold.
Only we have turned our faces
From the glades of gold ;
Seeking for the things that perished,
Lights that failed afar;
Losing those clear eyes that cherished
God in stone and star;
Seeking still in man’s endeavor
And Divine decree
For the gracious “light that never
Was on land or sea” ;
Waiting some supreme to-morrow,
Where the dream-flowers wake;
Singing songs to some far sorrow
Lest our own hearts break;
Heeding not for one that lingers
If Life’s garden close.
Gleaning thorns where Faith’s pale lingers
Once have set a rose.
So we journey, half forgetting
There are fairies still,
Where the little winds are fretting
Round the hollow hill.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Luck of Invisible Smith.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOSEPH BONE’S broad back was half
turned to the bank’s main entrance,
and for the lack of better entertain-
ment he drowsed over a rack of small tins,
like despoiled kitchen pepper-casters, all filled
to the brim with silver. It was close upon
three, and the day was hot and dull.
Joseph was conscious of the arrival of a
patron, more by disruption of the atmosphere
or the promptings of instinct than by com-
mon knowledge of eye or ear, for the man,
who probably wanted to sell a patent self-
adjusting calendar, or to get small change
for a bad half-crown, had entered with as
little noise as need be, and so far without
a word. Joseph did not turn instantly, for
Joseph was a bank manager, and it is a
first essential with the officers of the Mer-
cantile and Equatorial Bank to preserve
the grandeur of that mighty financial insti-
tution. It is necessary, therefore, never to
appear anything but slow, deliberate and
impressively indifferent, even should one of
the local Rothschildren come along with the
material for a new current account in a
furniture-van.
True, the third-grade branch of the Mer-
cantile and Equatorial that was under Mr.
Bone’s conduct and control at the small,
new but hopeful suburb of Sandgate was not
noticeably larger than a commodious box-
iron, and big Mr. Bone was so pinched for
accommodation behind his yard and a half
of counter that he could not turn over more
than twenty-seven and six at a time with-
out going out into Pill-street; but he was
manager of a Mercantile and Equatorial
Bank, nevertheless, and it would never do
for such to appear anxious to propitiate any
person or power on earth.
Mr. Bone turned slowly when he was quite
ready, and without lifting his heavy eyelids
said. “Well?”
“Silence!” answered the newcomer. t “I
don’t want one whisper from you, Ned.
Stand back, damn you!”
Joseph Bone had often wondered what was
best to do in such an emergency. In the
actual circumstances he did what he had
never dreamed of doing—he did as he was
told. There were reasons. The slim, small-
ish man on the other side of the counter wore
a black mask made of a handkerchief tucked
up under his hat, and hanging to just below
the nose, exposing only his mouth —a mouth
which the sharp, squarely-masoned, granite
jaw held so close that the lips were forced
outward, with a suggestion of domineering
temper that invested Joseph with an absurdly
irrelevant thrill of commiseration for the
fellow’s wife, whomsoever she might be.
Furthermore the small man held a long
revolver in his right hand, the wicked muzzle
of which was within two feet of the heart of
the amazed banker. The street door Joseph
noticed was closed and locked.
Instinctively Joseph’s hands went up. The
hai'd mouth under the mask made some pre-
tence at a grin.
“Got that from the living pictures, didn’t
you, Ned?” said the man with the six-
shooter. “Down with ’em. I know a better.
You might be a sleight-of-hand expert, and
get picking revolvers out of the air. Both
well down inside your trousers’ waistband,
sport.”
That command served to identify the in-
truder to Mr. Joseph Bone. Joseph was
being waited on by Invisible Smith, one
contingency among the several horrid pos-
sibilities every bank-manager in the Mel-
bourne suburbs had to be prepared for. It
was in expectation of just such a call that
the noble new automatic “gun” hung on its
nail just under the bank counter, where < it
could be reached with the greatest celerity
and without attracting observation. Invis-
ible Smith had robbed three suburban branches
within the last six months, and it had been
the proud and pious hope of every branch
manager that it was reserved for him to
capture this precious scoundrel in circum-
stances reflecting the greatest possible credit
upon the courage and ready wit of the well-
known and highly-esteemed official in charge.
And here was Joseph Bone, the most
formidable of all branch managers by reason
of his six-foot-two, his 15 stone, and his
notorious expertness on the mat and in the
ring, standing in a helpless condition, his
hands thrust ignominiously down inside his
trousers, wholly at the mercy of a small-
ish man with a viciously determined mouth
and a venomous-looking old army revolver.
“Down on your face!” commanded In-
visible Smith. He reached over, unhooked
Bone’s “gun,” and threw it into a corner.
Bone went down on his face on the
floor behind the counter. It did not occur
to him that there was anything else to be
done. Mr. Smith impressed people like this.
So far nobody under the domination of bis
revolver and his hard, imperious mouth
had dreamed of questioning his authority. He
had never found it necessary to shoot a
banker, because he possessed the useful and
fortunate faculty of convincing all such that
given the necessity he certainly would shoot
any number of bankers.
Invisible Smith sprang across the counter
with peculiar agility, landing astride Bone’s
body. He whipped a supple and powerful
cord from his coat pocket and speedily hit-
ched up the banker’s legs from the ankles.
“Your wrists, Ned, if you please,” said
he. Two loops took in Bone’s wrists, a
smart hitch brought the big man’s heels
well up his back, and then, with a few
deft movements, the bank-breaker adminis-
tered an ingenious gag contrived of a large
cork and a teaspoon. Pressure of a calico
wrap brought the bowl of the spoon haid
down on the base of Bone’s tongue, and the
giant was trussed and silenced.
“Lie perfectly still while I’m busy,” said
the thief. “You’re a little mascot of mine,
and I'd hate to hurt you. A witch what
I'm acquainted with told me for half a
dollar that a big, blonde man with fat ears
and just your sort of nose would bring me
wonderful luck, and so help me, Ned, doesn’t
it look like it?”
Invisible Smith gave his voiceless victim
a jocular poke in the ribs, and turned to
the loose cash. He left the bank a few
minutes later carrying with him everything
in the nature of plain money that the branch
possessed. He closed the door on its lock,
and went his way without haste, attracting
no attention whatever, and leaving, the ban-
ker so bound and gagged that his plight was
not discovered for over an hour.
When Joseph Bone came to think the
whole thing over in cold blood, and in the
absence of Invisible Smith’s hard mouth and
imperious weapon, he was shocked and hu-
miliated to find how easy a victim he had
been. Any child might have offered more
resistance, a simpering school-girl should
have put up a better fight. Telling his wife
ail about it that evening, the. big man did
not disdain to shed a tear or two.
“I’m done!” he said. “The bank will
never have a grain of respect for me again.
It can never repose the smallest confidence
in me. This means ruin.”
He sat with his face buried in his hands,
and his small wife, her fingers in his hair,
sought to console him, much as she would
have consoled either of their kiddies, Biddy
and Bert.
“There, there, dear, don’t you mind what
they think. A man can’t offer himself to
be shot for the salary they pay you.”
“They all expected so much from me
I’m so large, and I have a reputation as a
fighter. I won an amateur championship,
you know. It all tells against me. It all
makes me the more ridiculous.”
“Ridiculous! Not half as ridiculous as
you would be with a bullet in your liver.
I like their cheek, expecting a man with a
wife and family to take exceptional risks
because he happens to be bigger than the
average! A big man has all the more reason
for caution, he is so much easier to hit.
There’s Snaith of Richmond, look at him--
he’s that small and so thin a crack shot
might miss him at three paces, and he
knuckled doyra just as readily as you did.
They’ve got him in the bank still. They
didn’t sack him because he wasn’t idiot
enough to get himself killed in a fool effort
to add murder to the other crimes of In-
visible Smith.”
“That’s all right, but a manager who lets
this happen is disgraced all the same. He’s
branded a failure, a squib, and I’m not sure
that I haven’t slated a bit what I’d do.
O laird, why didn’t I have a go for it?”
“Why didn’t you have a go for it? Be-
cause you’ve got me, and little Biddy and
Bert, and because we three are more to you
than all the old Mercantile and Equatorials
on earth. A go for it, indeed! Let them
talk about your having any goes for it and
I’ll give them a taste of my tongue.”
But Bone remained in the attitude of a
broken, hopeless man. “Wait till you see
what the papers will have to say of me,” he
moaned. “I must do something. I have to
put myself right, and by the living Lord I
will! I’ll get this Invisible Smith. I’ll
devote my life to the work. I’ll have him
yet, and when we come together again he
won’t have a pistol stuck in my ribs, the
dog. the thief, the snarling, sniggering
brute!” Bone was on his feet, stalking up
and down the room. “Curse him, waking
and sleeping! But I’ll get him. He’ll find
out the kind of luck-bringer I am.”
“Oh, Jo, what do you mean to do? You
won’t be rash. Remember Biddy and poor
little Bert.” Mrs. Bone’s pretty face ex-
pressed the direst consternation.
“With these two hands I’ll drag the hound
to justice!” Bone held up the hands that
there might be no doubt about it. “I’ll
track him day and night. From now on I
have a new hobby. I’m going to be a Sher-
lock Holmes of sorts, and till I get my claw,
so. good and hard in the thin nape of In-
visible Smith, there’s going to be no other
fun for me. He said I was his mascot. We’ll
see.”
Joseph Bone was right in anticipating some
little adverse comment from the press. There
were no open accusations of cowardice, no
plain statement that it was part of the
honorable duties of a bank manager to at
least die at the hands of a criminal like
Invisible Smith as some guarantee of good
faith ; but the insinuations were all to that
effect, and Joseph Bone writhed under them.
He retained his position in the bank, but he
felt himself to be a man under a cloud, and
the whispers of people in the street stabbed
him in the back as he passed. A hundred
facts and incidents spurred him on in his
great quest, the pursuit of Invisible Smith.
He dreamed now of dragging the robber from
his mysterious hiding-place, and holding him
aloft, a shrimp of a man writhing before the
implacable face of justice. That was to set
him right again in the eyes of the Mercan-
tile and Equatorial; that was to rehabili-
tate him as a man.
Bone went carefully and systematically
to work. He took the advice of a success-
(Continuea on next page.)


Working Under a
Continual strain?
Does a Lame Back Keep You Worn Out All the Time?
Maybe you have weak kidneys, a
trouble that often follows a cold, a
fever or a spell of worry, overwork
or unwise habits. It shows in con-
stant, dull, throbbing backache, or
sharp twinges when stooping, lift-
ing, getting up or turning in bed,
with headaches, dizzy spells, a tired,
nervous state and irregular kidney
action. Don t neglect weak kidneys,
or you run the danger of having
dropsy, gravel, heart disease or other
complications. The kidneys are the
blood filters, and must work all the
time to keep you in good health.
Take things easier, follow regular
habits, and take Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, a remedy in use the
world over and recommended pub-
licly in Sydney week after week.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
certainly worth a trial.
w-
/
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all chemists and storekeepers at 2/0
per bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
'C Every Picture
Tells a
Story.'*
Serious Kidney
Trouble.
Sydney Man’s basting
Cure.
Mi’. Jas.- C. Struck, Glen Ayr, 17 Clarence Street,
Sydney, says:—“Seven years ago I was very ill with a bad
attack of disordered kidneys, caused, I think, through me
doing a lot of heavy work, which in some way must have
strained these delicate organs. I suffered excruciating
agony from backache, and was at times so had that I could
hardly move. Everything I had to do was a trouble, and I
was miserable and depressed. To make matters worse my
rest at night was much disturbed, and I used to get up in
the morning feeling worn out. The kidney secretions were
thick and cloudy and contained a red sediment, and my
ankles swelled to twice their usual size, being sore even if I
touched them. I went on suffering in this way for a long
time, nothing I took doing me any good, but at last I got
the right remedy, and that was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. After taking two bottles of these pills I felt much
relieved, and by the time I had finished eight bottles I was
completely cured and felt a different man. I am never
troubled with backache now, and my secretions are in a
healthy state. I attribute this to the good Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills did me nearly seven years ago.”
Eight years later Mr. Struck says:—“The cure referred
to above has proved permanent. I need say no more, the
facts speak for themselves.”
1
Backache
Kidney
gkg
scienHfil il ln<l Vn ly a & e “«i and moved on
that mti f'i g ' er in t(, uch with a class
Shi f 1 elp him he daunted the boxing
biWwl nn 6 i a r , egular attendant at several
finlpSfschools, and made the acquaint-
a lonS a S n ° US * uns ? and heads - He was
i g 0 d deal among the lower elements of
alwnvl° r - St P, v h - Showing the race game,
- n -? dia B'aise which, if it might not
servf US ldent f Cy aaiong acquaintances, did
a Ltaw 3186 hl , m a,)0V(; suspicion of being
& lepu table member of society.
It was at a fight in a smoky, little, nn-
tISSS ia in Fitzi- oy that Joseph made
thl of Toby the Itch. Tobv
SL 11 wa *. a hoarse youth who claimed
wide acquaintance among the more repn-
S ° f tVlelbourne. Bone went
\\ auly with his new acquaintance, but eventu-
ally, for a substantial consideration in cash,
loby the Itch agr-eed to put the big man
on the trail of Invisible Smith.
the / eh the fft ir dink,” said Toby
l l me It Ti i Ut d yo V Setter figger it out on yer
lone. It don t do fer me to get too close
up in, a deal iv this sort, or maybe I’d be
b-fl lh,- T ll throat slit from here to
thl I t,l J n h hi See r 5 pnts you <> n the start of
the trail, then I does a duck.”
4,°hy the Itch put Joseph Bone on the
trail, and Joseph followed it up assiduously
toi eight days, and found his man to be a
haimless and wholly reputable Collingwood
rtiocer. It was a sad blow, and bitterly
disputing, but Joseph Bone did not despair,
lie had developed a taste for the work, and
showed considerable skill and cunning in
following the devious tracks that criminals
and spielers leave behind them, and eventu-
i i a tew words from a crook iockev
he had befriended which filled him with'fever-
ish hopes of a great result.
Invisible Smith was only a name the
papers had attached to the bank robber; his
real name was known to very few. and none
ot them either pressmen or detectives,
i j meantime the enterprising rascal
imd robbed another bank, overawing a teller
and getting off with £2OO while the manager
was talking with a depositor in an adioin-
mg room.
What Joseph had learned brought him to
a certain street in Prahran. It defined his
search within certain boundaries; and now
began the work of elimination. Cautiously
Joseph proceeded, narrowing his sphere of
operations, and, as lie felt confident, drawing
the net in about his man.
A gxeat exultation possessed Bone at this
stage. He felt something of the rapture of
a true artist who sees a masterpiece drawing
to a happy conclusion. In a few days lie
would be able to point to a single house, and
say assuredly: “There he lies. Mv man is
there. It remains only for me to take him
unawares, and he will he no more than a
sick kitten in my hands.”
. l-fisre came a night when Bone, hovering
in the vicinity of the haunt of Invisible
hnutli, came suddenly upon a street fight—
not the ordinary rowdy, blasphemous bully-
ing, but a silent, fierce, deathly bout. Com-
ing closer he was amazed to find one of the
combatants to be a woman, and a well-
dressed and apparently handsome woman at
that. The man, a solid welter-weight, had
the upper hand, and was dealing the woman
brutal blows straight in the face, punching
quickly, heavily, without compunction.
All the knight in Bone arose in arms at
the abominable sight. He rushed the breath-
less and almost exhausted combatants, and
plucking the man from his now helpless vic-
tim he held the brute off with his left.
“You dirty cur,” he said, "to beat a
woman like that!” Bone brought his right
across with ail he could squeeze into it, con-
nected with the man’s jaw, and the wretch
fell limp, and sagged to the pavement all
out.
This had occupied a few seconds, but
already the woman had taken to her heels
and fled, doubling the next corner with
extraordinary agility for one of her sex.
and especially for one who had just received
such harsh treatment.
A small knot gathered about Joseph Bone
and the prostrate man. With the help of
a kindly barber, Bone carried the uncon-
scious man to a doctor a few doors off, and
there ten minutes was spent in restoring the
fellow to consciousness. Then he battled to
his feet, staring about him eagerly.
“Where? Where? What?” he stammered
in a dazed way.
“You were brutally illusing a woman and
1 knocked you out,” said Bone helpfully.
“You infernal idiot!” the man almost
screamed. “I am a detective. That was not
a woman, it was a notorious criminal in his
favorite disguise. I’d spent months tracking
him, and now, by God! I’ll never lay eyes
on him again !”
Bone went pale to the lips; he took the
detective in hand, and pinned him to the
wall.
“What criminal?” he said.
The detective choked, fighting to free
himself. “For God’s sake don’t waste time,”
he cried—“it was Invisible Smith !”
EDWARD DYSON.
“Stamps.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STAMPS was our postmaster, tie had
the distinction of being the tallest
man in One-horse Town, and being
narrow-waisted and carried on spidery legs
he was a conspicuous person. It wasn’t his
ungainly build that kept him single, for he
was otherwise a good-looking chap and a
likeable sort with everybody; he explained
his unmarried state by saying that he was
expected to live on the honor of his posi-
tion.
As Stamps lolled on the verandah, look-
ing at the empty street, and waiting for
somebody to wander in and claim one of the
pill pamphlets that littered a corner of the
office, or dozed through the dull, hot after-
noons in a hammock in a back room, he
reflected that the dreariness of existence
hardly compensated for the honor.
lie had two spasms of exertion every
week, when the mail-coach came in.' Then
the citizens and a few people from outside
gathered on the r r erandah waiting for the
mail to be sorted, and the premises really
took on a lively, business-like air for an
hour or so. Sometimes the coach arrived
early in the afternoon, sometimes long after
dark; but the post-office was always open
till the waiting group got its mail.
Between these eventful days a straggler-
dropped in occasionally, and if the post-
master wasn’t about the office, the man who
wanted to buy a stamp hunted him up in
the billiard-room or at Jerry Grum’s, where
he adjourned now and again for refresh-
ments with his bosom pal the bobby.
Stamps was a fairly temperate man, and
was never the worse for liquor between
weddings. He performed nearly all the mar-
riages in the district, and regularly, after
tying the matrimonial knot, he had a little
harmless spree as if in celebration of the
event, when the wobble of his long legs
and the complete thawing of his official dig-
nity were pleasurable remembrances. Only
for people getting married I don’t think he
would ever have had a relapse at all, for
during one matrimonial drought he kept the
dry, monotonous path for seven months.
Then came two weddings on one day—the
most memorable in his official career.
The first, which was in the morning,
passed off without any entanglements. The
second was in the evening. Stamps hadn’t
time to recover his official dignity for this
event, but the contracting parties didn’t
mind as long as he fixed them up according
to regulations.
They were Bill Saudoss, commonly known
as Bill Sawdust, who was employed as trap-
per and rabbit-poisoner on Job Splinter’s
run ; and Minnie Sully, a quarter-caste, who
had officiated as housemaid at Jerry Grum’s.
The ceremony was short and merry. It
was performed in the commercial room of
the Travellers’ Rest, and merged or drifted
somehow into skylarking and dancing. This
was kept up till midnight, after which the
“happy couple” stole a few hours’ sleep and
drove away on their honeymoon at day-
light.
It was a little after 9 o’clock when Stamps
opened the office. Then he made the awful
discovery that there were no signatures in
the book, and the documents were not in
order. There had been so much joviality
that formalities had hardly got a look in.
Sawdust didn’t know, as he had never been
married before, and those with experience
had been too intent on enjoying themselves
to notice hny irregularities.
In consternation Stamps rushed to his
confidential friend.
“Here’s a flamin’ mess!” he exclaimed.
“That pair’s only half hitched. What am
I to do?”
Constable Dunlop probed carefully into
the matter, and advised “Stamps” to wire
to the next telegraph office, which was 24
miles away.
“They haven’t got to Milpa yet,” he said,
“and if vou hurry you’ll get ahead of them.”
Stamps struck sparks from the blue
metal getting over the 'road, and ticked off
the message in desperate haste. Then he
sat back in a blue funk to await results.
It wasn’t the effect on Sawdust he feared,
but the damage to his reputation as a trust-
worthy official if any knowledge of the affair
got to headquarters.
A boy was waiting with the message at
Milpa pub when the couple drove up. Saw-
dust was surprised when it was handed to
him; when he read it he was astonished.
There was only one line: —
Come back. You’re not married.
“Goi-struth!” gasped Sawdust. "Not mar-
ried ! What the blazes does he mean?”
"He must think he’s funny,” said the
bride.
"I’d make him funny if I had him here,”
Sawdust snorted. “What are we if we ain't
married? what d'd I pay him for?”
lie sat in his sulky and read the line over
a dozen times, wondering what silly hoax
was being played on him. The bride was in-
clined to be hysterical, but pulled herself to
gether and said Stamps was a blithering
liar.
They drove round to the telegraph office,
only to be assured that the telegram was
genuine, and their only course was to hurry
back and get the job finished.
Sawdust was a rough, freckle-faced west-
erner of sulphurous volubility when any-
thing annoyed him, and he was very much
annoyed at this juncture. Over the 24 lumpy
miles back he gave frequent and forceful
expression to his injured feelings, and
uttered threats that put the bride in a
tremor of expectancy.
Besides the loss of time and the weary
travelling to and fro, it was the humiliation
of the whole thing that stung him. He
smashed through three gates on the road,
left all the others open, and finally pulled
his horse up at the post-office in a lather of
sweat.
“Where’s that long-legged blunderin'
galoot?” he cried as he leaped from the
vehicle. “Let me at him!”
He strode up to the counter with sparks
in his eyes, and let loose on Stamps. j.ne
constable, who had been having a quiet
smoke in the corner, warned him to moder-
ate his language; but Sawdust waved the
telegram and asked in a loud voice what
sort of a hybrid ass he called the variegated
catastrophe behind the counter. lie
answered himself with another explosion,
then leaped over the counter and chased the
scared official round the letter-rack and over
the pill pamphlets. The scramble was arres-
ted by the constable, who tripped up the
tornado, and then ran him in for riotous
behavior.
Stamps sat dejectedly on a stool until
the constable returned.
“What next?” he asked with the apathy
of desoair.
“Fetch your paraphernalia down to the
lockup and finish the beauties there,” said
the constable. “He’s agreed, if I let him
out as soon as you’ve done with him, to
leave the town at once.” :
So the tying of the knot was completed in
the lockup. It was a seriously formal func-
tion, and everyone concerned made sure
there was no lialf-hitch about it this time.
“But see here, Stamps,” said the constable
when the unhappy couple had driven away,
“provide enough interval in future to
straighten yourself up between weddings.”
E. S. SORENSON.


4
WESTINGHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 FeatherBto» Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
REMINGTON OMC
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
■ .»
.
-m.
SHORT
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be milled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety LoclT Full directions attached to each rifle,
eight, 4 4 1 b. price £5/10/- net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. J. i*. KNIGHT.
COWLES & DUNN. F. LASSETTER & 00.. LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
' Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J, p. KNIGHT.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers:—
D, D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
_ IS
c alling
kg
kgh
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Tree Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name_ ~
Address
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
MOTOR
±IA
S',
’/f
• *. . O- ktf
The Drive That Puts
the Power in Denby’s.
THE Denby internal gear-drive is built
upon scientific principles of economy
in operation. There are fewer driving
parts, less up-keep expense, greater ground
clearance. The users of a universe attest
that. If your next lorry isn’t a Denby, it’s
because you have failed to investigate its
merits. *
Load capacities: 1,2, 2| 3J, 3 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address; << De^^trux. ,,
BE PERSUADED
to try Beeeham’s Pills! All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that v Beeeham’s
Pills ape Worth a Guinea a Box”. This is what people say who have
taken them who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of cases —is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you? Beecham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici ie of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you* happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEECHM’S PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price lOid (36 pills), 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
QfJ.Coltis Brownes
ChiorodyM
The Original and Only Genuine.
Ift
&
$
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
!R»o Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
® I, ' ,G J- ETOI>,,s EYE OINTMENT,
llie Remedy used by Army ami Navy men
Osed since im CURES •“ isa, “ --
PS! B f r 'Sa° itsjpS
Insist on Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.*
©
' This ig a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
THIS BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of HKONOHITIS aiul
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery «
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, I]S, SJ-, o/v
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard<
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNEHS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful fpce. Both
your health and
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
guj
CARTERS
* ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young—purely vegetable.
Small Pill-Small Dose—Small Pries.
GENUINE must
bear signature g*'g***g^
Dreadnought Wire Strainer
r
Post Free
«
UlHmrEyfff Ifll
( Patented )
( Patented )
U »
1 A/
JL V / ""
each
Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
Ihe simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Fi® 6>
Titan. Manufacturing Company.
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


NGROvrr
LEATHER
IED :
*
BELTING EFFICIENCY
can be obtained by plant-owners who use
Mangrovite Leather Belting. Tanned by our
special Mangrovite process it gives maximum
power transmission under severe conditions.
Wonderfully elastic and pliable, it grips the
pulleys and cuts ottt waste power.
Try it for your machinery.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowioi, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
THEY PAY FOR THEMSELVES
A machine frequently “pays for itself” by the increased output in a few
weeks’ work.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Chaff cutter Knives
soon pay for themselves because they can be used longer
without sharpening, by quick, clean and uniform cutting.
New shipments to hand for all sizes of the following
machines—Cliff & Bunting, Richmond & Chandler, Bentall,
and Buncle.
For prices and other particulars write to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra. Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
£6 Boulder Rd., Kalgeorlie
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
4s
m
.-ft.'
>:•:•:
-ii
*:■:
&
r
Si
Chemicals?
We always have large stocks on hand and our
prices are absolutely the lowest. Our stocks
include: —•
Soda-Ash/ Caustic Soda, Chloride of
Calcium, Sulphide of Sodium, Chloride
of Ammonium, Naphthaline, Carbolic
Acid (98% pale straw), Bichromate
Soda and Potash, French Chalk, Dex-
trine, Aniline Dyes, Ilematine and
Fustic Extracts. Barge quantities ot
Whale, Cod and Herring Oil always on
hand.
Write for prices and particulars NOW.
JAMES HARD IE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,"
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8156 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
For Finish, Accuracy, Reliability and Durability
There’s Nothing' liKe Rotherhams.
THESE HIGH-GRADE MOTOR FURNISHINGS,
made by the same firm which makes the
WORLD-FAMOUS TIMEPIECES,
are wholly thoroughbred in manufacture and remain thoroughbred during their entire subsequent usage.
AS COMPETENT DISTRIBUTORS OF MOTOR-ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES
we have always largely stocked and consistently recommended ROTHERHAM GOODS with credit ta
ourselves and satisfaction to our customers. During the War, and after, certain imes became out of
stock” and could not be replaced.
ty
It is now our pleasure to announce that we have overcome the
shortages, and once more we hold fine stocks of all patterns of
ROTHERHAM GREASE CUPS, COMPRESSION COCKS,
LUBRICATORS, PETROL UNIONS, PETROL COCKS,
PETROL STRAINERS, VACUUM TANK COCKS,
RADIATOR CAPS, TANK FILLERS, OIL CUPS, etc., etc.
■ *
T'S*
40*
s'-
Full Particulars of these Goods or any Motor Engineering Supplies gladly sent anywhere on request.
LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE
Sheep Shearing'
Machines.
THe ** Long-service ” Machines.
uTui
a
Severe tests of downright practical service
have proved Wolseley Sheep Shearing
proveu w uiseiey ouccii oui<.n«o
Machines to be the best for small or large sheds. Throughout
their long service, running expenses and repair bills are cut down to a minimum.
Such efficiency and economy should guide you in your choice—should prompt you to
get details of these splendid machines. Address your inquiries to the nearest brancn.
DALOETY AND CO., DTD., AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS: ALL BRANCHES.
<s>
Designed to handle to-day’s work tinder to-day’s conditions- —
CINCINNATI PORTABLE ELECTRIC
Hand and Breast Prills
Heavy Duty Drills
Heavy Duty Radials
Tool Post Grinders
hg
Bench Grinders.
In the busy Engineer's Shop a “Cincinnati” Drill or Grinder count for big* savings in time, power a
ThinK of the convenience of being* able to TAKE THEM TO THE m ° -
of
moving
labor.
Heavy material from place to place. ~They’i”o wherever you want them, and ANY SOCKET YS A
SOURCE OF POWER. either DIRECT OR ALTERNATING. Write to Sole Agents for Complete Catalogue.
ParKe & Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
C(
DORR” THICKENERS FOR
INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTS
GREATLY REDUCE BOTH TIME AND FUEL NEEDED
FOR WASHING AND DRYING PRECIPITATES.
Send for Bulletin, “Counter Current Decantation” No. 7, describing the Continuous
Process for Washing-soda, Barytes, Whiting and other chemicals.
We manufacture all Plant required and solicit correspondence.
Sole Agents In Australasia for the DORR CO., U.S.A. —
N.
LTD.,
10 George St., Camperdown, N.S.W.
if: —
&
mz:
m
% ' K
■-.
HP
_ -m. J »'Tl
