

is Carrying the Comforts and Conveniences of
the City into the Farm Homes of Australia.
It is furnishing bright, clean electric light
throughout the house and barn —doing away
with the smoky, dangerous kerosene lamp
and lantern.
It is providing power to pump water, thus
making possible a modern bath and the con-
venience of running water throughout the
house and bam.
It is operating the washing machine, the churn
and cream separator, the vacuum cleaner, the
milking machine, the fanning mill and the
grindstone.
It is revolutionising farm life—and at the
same time it is saving so much in time and
labor that it is actually paying for itself.
Over 100,000 satisfied users throughout the
world are the visible evidence of Delco-Light
leadership in the Farm Light and Power field.
IT PAYS FOR ITSELF.
Ask the Man Who Owns One.
Write to the Agent in your State for
Catalogue and Further Information.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Mel-
bourne.
Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Geo. Wills & Co., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
A. D. Riley & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
Farmers’ Co-operative Association,
Christchurch.
•• ■ ’
m
mm-
u
Im. ■
'vmm.
:m
n ■
rY^Wm
""
'
%s*lM
v:...
u>
u.
c
ft
m
WSm. ■ tff '
"V
ip
. !g&
\±£&
i
wmz
%
WW-^i
c~x±
t;
; JIN
f ppjp
. !
Jp^p
- :.« IV
%
M
4?
gs&saSS**
A complete electric light
and power plant for farms
and country homes, self-
cranking—air cooled —
hall hearings—no belts • —
only one place to oil —
thick plates — long-lived
battery.
Valve-in-Head Motor
—Runs on Kerosene.
Made by the people
who have made Elec-
tric Lighting and Start-
ing Equipment on over
1,000,000 Cars.
“There’s a Satisfied User near you.”
W. A. CROWLE LTD., 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Distributors.
Country Ag'ents Wanted Everywhere.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2103.
Thursday, June 3, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
BOOK ARCADE, LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 64'31.—Advt.
Swan Self-Fillei
NOW ON SALE!
FUls* with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/'
(Without Clip)
USE
>
USE
Swan
*» Haunted
SWAN IN
New
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action 1
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
THE
**!23fifca£**
* ■ +
€S
JtT:
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial lianl: of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
£5,000j000 Directors: —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
£2 000,000 EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
1,200,000 .1. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
»o (kui Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
£3,200,000 BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
828,000 Chief-Manager : E. 11. WREFORD.
£4,028,000 Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WLLSON.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St, Manager; R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager: A W. HEWETT.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: J. A. G. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 7 LotHbury, E.C. 2.
The Car for the
Owner-Driver
Comfort in keeping- with
its appearance of quiet
elegance are features
of the STANDARD
LIGHT CAR that has
won the favor of the
Overseas Owner-driver.
British.
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
RUBY LINDSAY MEMORIAL
VOLUME.
ADMIRERS and Friends of the late
RUBY LINDSAY (Mrs. Will Dyson)
who may be interested in the above book, a
collection of Ruby Lindsay’s finest work,
perfectly produced in a beautiful volume, are
invited to apply to EDWARD DYSON, 75
Mitford Street, St. Kilda.
The Standard Remedy which has ontlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
jjg
Used since 1«T "c UREs" r or c g2^
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, Loadom England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s ” —refuse all substitutes.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all
forms of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a
sweet, healthy condition.
Suited fqr Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike cough medicines,, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their
Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation
of the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
©
at*
A. The Larynx .or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
[5
The Red Page
Poetry and the Working Day
The simple arrangement by which 24 hours
go to the day was made before the alphabet
came into vogue, or men began to weave
patterns of letters that curved and twined
line for line with their thoughts. A real
literary day would be as variable in length
and manner as tbe lines of the alleged vers
libre, where the teeth of the unmetrical saw
leave four dots here and there to indicate
that the structure is wood and not jelly.
For the man who lets the best tlfat is in him
go out in literary expression some days re-
quire 96 hours; others could with advantage
have the sun rise at 11.30 a.m. and set at
3 p.m. Of course, there is the night and
the lamp and the general theory that a brain
works best when it ought to be resting; but
the need of sleep was planned when the sun
was first geared on the 24-hour circuit, and
sleep is mot a good atmosphere in which
to do the best work. There is a great
deal of gas and kerosene and strong coffee
in modern literature, just as there used to
be a lot of candle-grease and old port-wine
in that of the eighteenth century; but the
chances are that the very best thoughts and
those which live longest have always been
daytime thoughts. That is the main reason
why serious and continued poetic effort is
so hard to find. The rare mood is broken
by the rhythm of night and day, and it is as
hard to pick up again as it is to match the
tattered threads of half-dreamt dreams. The
greatest epic in English is patchwork. Mil-
ton in the best mood sings like “sonorous
metal blowing martial sounds” ; tremendous
images leap to his mind and are matched
with a tremendous roll of language. But
that doesn’t go on all the time. Pope was
right when he wrote: —
Milton’s strong pinion now not Heaven can bound,
Now serpent-like in prose he sweeps the ground;
In quibbles angel and archangel join
And God the Father turns a school divine.
Longer poems that are of uniform texture,
woven without seam, are generally of just
such a length as the writer might set down
at least in rough draft within the compass
of one mood. Coleridge has himself told us
that his greatest fragment was broken off
through the arrival of a visitor, and that he
whs never able to pick it up again. “Tam
O’Shanter” —according to a great Scotch-
man, the greatest day’s work done in Scot-
land since Bruce fought Bannockburn —was
written at a sitting ; and it is probable that
if the inner story of most long-short pieces
which have made literary history could be
told, it would be found that something of the
same sort was true about them all.
Taking the world or a world’s* working day
as we find it, it would seem that true con-
densation of thought must be the keynote
of the future. Although the writer of verse
seldom secures sensational salOs like the
novelist, there can be no doubt at all that
there is more verse read to L day than at any
time in the past, and that it is read with a
keener appreciation of its essential poetry.
That fact has led to attempts in a hundred
directions to modernise verse—to get into
grips with the changed feeling and offer
what an eager, waiting public really desires.
Kipling at the one end and the vers libre
writers at the other are both expressions of
the same feeling; but the general reader
more and more talks of Keats or quotes
Omar or goes bq,ck to Sliakspeare and Milton
as to new discoveries. The truth seems to
be that the old modes are all right, the
old forms the best; and that the true de-
mand is for a tightening up and more per-
fect handling of those modes and forms.
In the loose days of a small, leisured reading
public with lots of time,, the poet actually
got a better hearing if he introduced much
chaff with the oats of his finer thought.
Now the reader has more to select from
and little time to spare; and his literary-**
stomach is trained to take a feed that is all
oats. The whole of “Paradise Lost” could
have been written within the compass of the
first two books with enormous advantage;
and the great epic of the future must be
built in the light of such knowledge. There
must be as much work, thought, melody,
fire, harmony—what you will —in the short
book as in the long one. Sonnets that con-
tain one transcendent line in a setting of
13 others that are not of average merit —
like some of Wordsworth’s —were once
things to be very thankful for ; now the de-
mand is either for that one line without
setting, or for a setting of 13 other lines
that are fit to live beside it.
The *,vhole outlook is thus a thoroughly
joyous one for the singer _who has something
to sing and the will to give it to the world
in the very best shape. Sliakspeare, Milton.
Keats —none of them would have asked for
anything better. And the cash returns?
Well, there aren’t any worth speaking of,
and, what is more, there never were. The
verse-journalist*could always get near mak-
ing a living by his rhymes, and he can do
that to-day ; but —let the gods be thanked !
there never was a time in any age or land
when essential poetry had a market value.
Poets have been paid for it; but neither
those who paid nor those who receipted the
docket ever dreamt that the account with
humanity was closed. In the nature of
things that must always be the case; and
no poet worth his rhymes would have it
otherwise.
D. M. W.
The Bloke Who Tells the Story
The Young Man with the Purple Eyelids
came into the cafe and sat down at my table.
It was late and the place was deserted, so
that I shivered when my eye fell upon him,
for I knew him at once. I had seen him
in so many first paragraphs entering in just
such a way—he was the Man Who Tells
the Story.
All the signs were there. He came in
wearily; his face, though young, was lined
and his hair was streaked with white; and
though his manner was abstracted I knew
that every -nerve in his body was strained
to catch the something which would give his
father, the well-known author, an oppor-
tunity of earning a dishonest livelihood. A
waitress would pass and he would mutter
“Queer cattle—women!” Or a barrel-organ
would wander through “The Turnpike Gate”
and he would .breathe “Ah, that tune!” On
some pretext or other he would gabble a
phrase, put four dots at the end of it in a
manner inviting my attention, and I would
be compelled to become his confidant and
friend until such time as the requisite num-
ber of words had been spoken. I hated and
feared the young man.
So we sat there like a pair of fencers,
watching each other out of the corners of
our respective eyes. Troops of waitresses
passed ; four barrel-organs and six returned
soldiers’ bands played “Chasing Rainbows”
and other airs full of fertile suggestion ; out-
side a shot rang sharp upon the frosty air.
But the man did not even sigh. In truth,
thought I, here is a man who seeks something
too unusual as a nail upon which to hang
his narrative. If he is not careful his father
will go without cheese this night.
Presently, however, he spoke.
“I can read your thoughts,” he said with
a sad little smile which the conventions
required.
“Please,” I begged earnestly, “if it is any
trouble don’t worry. I know you have a
story to tell, but I’m not particularly anxious
to hear it. I dislike hearing stories from
strangers in caf<ss. No offence, you know,
but if it’s not essential, what about forget-
ting the story to-day and talking about the
races?”
The sad smile vanished and the Young
Man with the Purple Eyelids looked almost
human.
“My dear bloke,” he said, “you are wrong.
I have no story to tell. I have never stood
in the bread-line until a mysterious person
in a fur coat carried me off per Rolls Royce;
I have not been in the unhappy position of
walking the streets of Constantinople in
quest of the scented note which is to fall
at my feet; to the best of my knowledge and
belief no woman has ever broken my heart
nor have I paid the price of a great wrong
by a great sacrifice. I have never shared
in an adventure which finished up with a
surprise in the last line.”
He stopped and regarded me anxiously.
“I trust,” he whispered, “you are not in
that line of business yourself?”
I gave him my word that I had only come
to the place to obtain a saveloy and a cup
of coffee. To allay ray last fears that he
might be working on a new human-interest
system I asked him for his reason for being
in the caffi.
“I’m waiting to take one of the waitresses
home,” he explained. “I don’t know that
there’s anything interesting about our
attachment except that it always rains when
I arrange to take her down on to the beach.”
Chastely I kissed him on the brow. My
feelings got the better of me; ■ my relief
was too great to be expressed in words.
For I dread the Man who Tells the Story.'
He is so similar; he is so humbly insistent
upon inflicting his yarn upon the world; he
is such a mass of inner and outer “quotes” ;
he trades •so cruelly upon the good nature of
blokes who give deserted caffis a sporting
chance by extefiding their patronage to them.
No man with his characteristics in capital
letters should be allowed to come into a
cafe or any other place of public resort to
tell a story—unless his. father is Kipling or
Merrick. Even then. I think, it would be
more fitting if his father told it Straight
out for him. Nobody is interesting or cheer-
ful in a deserted caffi.
DALE COLLINS.
Enjoying Life
Early last year controversy broke round
the authorship of “The Journal of a Disap-
pointed Man,” by W. N. P. Barbellion. It
was at once set down by the wiseacres of
literary criticism as the fictitious work of
11. G. Wells. But a discerning minority and
a few of us who had foll'&wed Barbellion’s
scientific work in the Zoologist and other
periodicals knew the book as the genuine
self-revelation of a clever young naturalist
named Cummings, whostj career had been
cut off by untimely death. A volume of
his collected essays, Enjoying Life, has just
been published, completing all that its author
cares to record of a life full of promise
turned into a tragedy of baffled hopes.
Briefly, Barbellion’s career was this. Born
at Barnstaple in 1889, the third son of a
poor journalist, Bruce Frederick Cummings,
in spite of meagre circumstances and increas-
ing ill-health, taught himself zoology to such
good purpose as to gain an assistantship in
the Entomological department of the British
Museum. A few weeks before his marriage
with Winifred Benger in 1915, while on a
holiday at Coniston .he damaged his spine
in a fall, which later brought on creeping
paralysis. A daughter, Penelope, was born
in 1916; and in the following year, after
protracted illness, he was compelled to resign
his appointment at the British Museum.
Money grants from friends enabled him to
live ; and a small band of well-known literary
men, including Bennett, Galsworthy and
Wells, undertook to maintain the wife and
child. He died on October 30 last year, just
seven months after the publication of his
“Journal.”
“The Journal of a Disappointed Man”
was no catchpenny title given to an
ansemic inventory of despair, any more than
“Enjoying Life” is a sardonic name for its
counterpart. Barbellion did enjoy life-
enjoyed it passionately—the more when the
keen edge of approaching death began to
bite into his sensitive soul. And it was be-
cause of this intense love of life that he was
a disappointed man. He was a natural
descendant of Sir Thomas Browne and Marie
Bashkirtseff, in that he shared with the
latter a “great gusto for life,” and with
the former a deep delight in literature. His
achievement confirms Huxley’s aphorism
that literature and science are not two sepa-
rate things, but two side's of the same thing.
Stevenson and Huxley, the friends of his
youth, stood side by side on his bookshelf
with Lang’s “Comparative Anatomy of In-
vertebrates” and the “Note Books” of Samuel
(Continued on page 24.)


K
Reliable
materials
and careful
workmanship
are the
factors that
make every
purchase
made at
Anthony
Horderns’
completely
satisfactory,
how ever
moderate
the price
paid.
D 625, Particularly well-
dressed coat and skirt
suit, carried out in Fawn Gabar-
dine, the coat is cut on somewhat
lengthy lines, with panel back box,
pleated, neat patch pocket and all
round belt. The skirt though plain
is well cut.
Price
£7/17/6
JX4332. Quite a new cut is evi-
denced in this smartly-designed
Velour Cloth Coat. is the
type that may be buttoned high to
the neck, catching in just the cutest
way with strap and buttons —or it
may be worn open. Neat turn-back
cuffs, inset pockets, narrow all
round belt finishes. In Mole, Grey,
Bottle and Navy.
Price 95 / -
Econoimr aSmkm.4.
feature 5
HOEDEENS
Km.
QW-'.;
D. 1134
lyL
J’X.SZH
f A
~a
JX..4041
mRWim
w: i
0L
XSS-3
D 1154 is a smart, loose-fitting Gown of Mignonette Green Serge. The square yoke in front, and
the square collar at the back are decorated with fancy cable-stitching, while horizontally-tucked empieceinents
front and back, look very effective. An all-round belt, with cable-stitched sash ends, lends a fine finish.
Price • • £B/8/-
JXB2I. Heavy, Comfortable Coat, fashioned from a darker Heather Grey Tweed. Fancy patch pockets. A
narrow all-round belt runs through strappings at side. The large 1920 shoulder collar is so fashioned that it
may be worn high to the neck or open, as occasion demands.
Price 57/6
The styles
illustrated
are distin-
guished by a
smart sim-
plicity of
style, and a
noteworthy
reasonable-
ness of price.
In quality
and value
they repre-
sent the
highest
economy.
JXISOB. Costly - designed
Coat, with shoulder collar, which
may be worn open or buttoned high
to the neck. Patch pockets, with
button-trimmed flat, turn-back cuffs
similarly enhanced and all round
belt finishes. In Grey, Fawn or
Heather shades.
Price
84/.
JX1175. Magnificent Coat
carried out in heavyweight all-wool
Velour cloth. The large collar is
beautified with three parallel rows
of cord stitching, buttons and button-
holing. This is so fashioned that it
may be worn high to the throat
or open as occasion demands. Fancy
patch pockets are treated with but-
tons, likewise the quaintly de-
signed turn-back cuffs. An all-round
belt adds the effect. In Nigger,
Navy and Black.
Price £7/12/6
m
o
Q
j"w
B
825
/ JX
4331
JX4o4l.—Pure Australian All-Wool Black Velour Cloth was
selected for this coat. Large patch pockets, flap and button finished,
all-round belt running through side slashings. Quaintly .peaked turn-down
cuffs. A -high and adjustable collar gives a high, desirable finish.
Price 89/6
JXISO-3.—Exceptionally Serviceable Coat, finished from a
warmly-tor:ed tweed. Prom the belt at back two box-pleats fall in panel
form. Smartly designed patch pockets add effect, together with the
capacious collar, which on chilly mornings or evenings may be buttoned
high to the neck. In Dark Grey and Brown.
Price 89/6
WE PAY POSTAGE
on drapery and apparel to any address in
N.S.W., and on inter-State orders to the nearest
port. The efficiency of our mail-order service
can be relied upon to make shopping by letter
entirely satisfactory.
ANTHONY HORDERN
SONS LIMITED
BRICKFIELD HILL
S^D.TSTEY
THE HOUSE of ECONOMY.
o
o
&
%
JXISOB
JX1175


S 3
W'
r
■j-
A
r
sV
9K
Make a KODAK
history of the
Prince’s visit.
You have a wonderful opportunity of compiling a unique, pictorial history of the Prince’s visit
with a Kodak that will be a more and more valued souvenir as year succeeds year. Not only
will you have the opportunity of “snapping” the Prince, but there are the decorations
and associated events of which to make pictures.
The Vest Pocket Kodak is an unobtrusive little instrument that you can use anywhere. It fits
in a lady’s handbag or waistcoat pocket, and takes very clear pictures 1f x2\ inches that can be
enlarged to any reasonable size. Price 54/6. Other Kodaks up to £2O/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue, of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth
“The Kodak Corner,’’ corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Moiseiwitsch music will live for us
in the records of
Ilis Master’s Voice
The great Town Hall of Sydney could not accommodate in comfort the vast
audiences which “clamored for more” when the brilliant young Russian demon-
strated his exceptional gifts. Those who were fortunate enough to hear Moiseiwitsch
will want to hear him again and again. Fortunately, many of his masterpieces have
been recorded. The artist goes—but the bounty of his wondrous gift remains with us.
TEN MASTER-RECORDS by “the Poet of the Piano.”
MOISEIWITSCH.
10-inch Record, 8/6.
5597—Le Coucou (The Cuckoo)
from “Piece de Clavecin”
(Daquin).
12-inch Records, 12/6.
05590—Berceuse (Chopin).
05612—Chant polonais ( Chopin-Lizst)
05628—(a) Bird Song (Palmgren).
(b) The Sea (Palmgren).
12-inch Records, 12/6.
05613—Capriccio in B minor, Op. 76,
No. 2 (Brahms).
05624—Clair de lune (Debussy).
05582—Jardine sous la pluie (Rain in
the Garden) (Debussy).
05581—Jeux d’eau (Water play)
( Ravel).
05598—Nocturne (for the left hand
only ) ( Scriabine ),
Complete list of “His Master’s
Voice” Celebrity Records and name
of nearest dealer will be sent on
request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voire”
Head. Trade-mart:.
I
RS
m.


For Your Liver
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use ’uring colds
and fevers.
1/- pcT bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE- HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
376
n
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading: Stores in Aus-
tralia. and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
nre sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
*>nt U2O& 0m
mm®
m
Al
OJtSjA)
m
i Qm
o'Mxity.ty, fosisK •>
THESE
GOODS
ARE AUS-
TRALIAN
MADE.
W is is is tru-
Sunshine Purses.
ttmmM
litltttnh
mun:
vm
Try our Lay-
by System.
All goods
post free
throughout
Australia.
XB3.—Leather “Sunshine” Purse with inside slit pocket and leather handle on
back. Solid leather lined. Designs: “Waratah,” “Christinas Bells” and “Kookaburra.” Size
Bin. x 4in. Price 5/11 each.
EXPERT MAILORDER CO.,
Als„ „ G - P '°- 257S ’ -
AMERICAN BAG STORES, LIMITED,
Corner Pitt & King Streets; Strand Arcade, Pitt Street; Sydney Arcade, George Street.
m
LI
£
it
yiGNo/ymvict
NOT an Experiment!
m
The Australian Wool Clip is not a thing tc be ex-
perimented with. It was with the fullest recognition
of that fact, and only after years of exhaustive tests,
that “Vallo”—an Arsenical Dip of the highest quality—
was placed on the market with a definite pledge to
the Government t>f its equality to the best Dip ever
offered the Australian Woolgrower.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is an ideal realised. The genuine confidence and
enthusiasm with which it is now being used all over
the Commonwealth is sound evidence that Vallo” is
a Perfect Dip. When will your flock start enjoying
its effectiveness, its long-lasting protection ? NOW ?
Ml Stores Sell "VALLO”
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO«
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY - BRISBANE
»
Supremacy!
To realise something of Britain’s power you
need only to see‘the mighty “Renown, now
in Australian waters.
To realise what British THOROUGHNESS
means you need only to look closely at the
finish of the
GBD
TOE. PERFECT PIPE
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Secret Music.
Ring, blossom bells!
I give you no name.
I hear what your chiming tells
Of the dews that glisten,
Of the rains that christen
A bud to flame
And a sheath to tender blue.
But that is a secret thing
To whisper to trees;
For the bells ring and ring,
Shaken by bees,
And their names are always new —
Strange little names that are keys
To open green gates
Where the knocking breeze waits,
Not knowing the spells that I know.
Come in, wind, and blow
The sun-spray of honey and dreams!
Oh, the great purple bells,
The small crimson bells,
Ringing in shadow a music of gleams,
Ringing in sun-gold a chime of forgetting;
And the white bells calling
And swinging and fretting
Their belfry green!
It were blame, it were blame
If the white petals falling
Whispered a name.
Let the spell lie
In the heart, of a sigh,
Swinging high, swinging low
Till the great lights are dim
And the magic o’erbrim.
Will none hear the chiming
And silken-soft rhyming
Of the names that I know?
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Jewels.
The naked city lies beneath the night,
With sparkling gems upon her body set!
Upon her head she wears a coronet
Of gleaming pearls and diamonds that unite
In rows around a perfect chrysolite.
She has a thousand beads of jade and jet
About her shoulders as a carcanet,
And on each breast a splash of crimson light.
There is the living city spread below
Dike some prodigious woman half-asleep!
The rows of lamps like drops of crystal
rain ♦
Around her body cast their golden glow.
While through the streets and crooked
ways men creep
Like phantom thoughts within her drowsy
brain.
VICTORIA.
REG S. ELLERY.
Dead Woman.
White woman that I used to love,
Who laughed and left me here,
I came to-day to mock his grief
And judge you on your bier;
I came to show how cold I was
To your dead loveliness ;
I came to make his sorrow more,
And make your worth the less.
But there you lay, so straight and pale,
And, like a pearl between
Black seaweeds, through the tendrilled curl?
Of your long hair was seen
The holy beauty of your face,
And, folded on your breast
Where he supplanted me, your hands
Proved nothing but their rest.
I might have branded you with guilt,
I might have shamed his tears,
I might have told how you were mine
In earlier, madder years.
But. after all, I said no word,
For naught I dared to say,
While underneath the seal of God
A saint at last you lay.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
My Dwelling.
This I feel when darkness deepens,
Noise of street and alley quelling,
In a squalid house, long-builded,
I am dwelling.
Duts.v cobwebs sway about me,
Room and hall are shadow-haunted,
Only Love goes fearless through it—
Love undaunted.
Other men, ten thousand others,
Dwelt a term within its portals;
Some are dust, blo 4 wn hither, thither,
Some immortals.
Only, that God paints its windows
With His dawn and sunset glory,
Who would waste his time within it.
Growing hoary?
Only that Love lights his candles
In its dusty, darkened places,
Who would dwell where Sorrow ever
Sighing paces?
Only that one sees at moments
Hope, like some fair planet risen,
It would close around one’s spirit
Like a prison.
Everywhere on wall and ceiling
Men have writ of high endeavor—
Scrawled their names, and like to shadows
• Gone forever.
Some there were who thought to lighten.
Paint its walls with loving fingers,
But of all their golden frescoes
Little lingers.
Thus I feel when darkness deepens,
Noise of street and alley quelling,
In an ancient house, long lived in, '
I am dwelling.
N.S.W.
RODRIC QUINN.


Gillette
Safety Razors
ANNOUNCEMENT
Altered conditions having made
it possible for us to readjust
prices, Gillette Safety Razors and
Blades are now quoted as under,
throughout Australia:—
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZORS.
STANDARD SET: Heavy Triple-Silver-
plated Razor and one dozen Gillette
Blades in neat Leather Case,
286
GILLETTE BLADES, 6/6 per dozen.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
S. HOFFNUNG C& CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
Wholesale Agents.
An Appetising Dish
That Needs No Cooking.
When time is short you will be glad to
have a tin of “Rex” Lorraine Smoked
Sausages on the pantry shelf. Twenty
minutes in boiling water and a steaming hot,
tasty dish of Sausages is ready for your table.
Rex” Lorraine Smoked
Sausages
are tender and chock full of flavor and nourishment.
They bring you a new taste that you are sure to
enjoy. Good for any meal of the day.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERYWHERE.—Buy a tin to-day.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., L TD.
Packers of “ Rex " Pure Food Products,
Curers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 980
uuu
Ml
if'!'
r
»m
At <?n.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It's British.
n
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans fbe teetf) wifboul' scratching
Sweetens lf>e breafb;hardens the gams
MADE
N
Australia
1/
i T
If your Ghemisf or storekeeper
cannof supply, send in stomps
Rocke .Tompsitt £ Co. Melbourne.
Martel I s
Brandy
The choice of connoisseurs and physicians
—for over two centuries giving satisfaction
as a medicinal stimulant and satisfying
beverage.
You’ll enjoy the mild, mellow flavor,
exquisite bouquet and exhilarating effect.
Be sure to try it.
Character
There is character in whiskies
just as there is in men —good,
bad and indifferent.
For over 80 years the character
of Thorne’s Whisky has been
“Incomparable” Old Highland
Malt.
Look for the black square
bottle that contains the supreme
achievement in Scotian d’s
famous whiskies.
THORNE’S
“Incomparable” Whisky
A
A
British
Hand-made
CIGARETTES
A good beginning with Abdulla
Cigarettes means a happy ending
of contentment.
There is delightful flavor and
aroma in every whiff, soothing to
the senses and ensuring complete
relaxation from care and worry.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 41.—N0. 2103.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3, 1920.
Price 9d.
EXORCISING THE AUSTRALIAN DEVIL.
“The break-of-gauge problem was again discussed at the Premiers’ Conference.”
POLITICAL VOICE IN THE LANDSCAPE: “There he is, gentlemen. He’s always there. He’s growing bigger every day, curse him! Now, let us go fishing.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'or £1 His. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to axv address in Australasia, post paid.
jo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In ISlaek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re,-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the. arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate, Circus: and W. Pa rson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.t ;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerlh Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.: “'The. British-Australasian,” 31 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dan son and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
hh Kerb Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.J G. S. Forsyth and Co., lift Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
V.B.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; Western News and Publishing
Co., 10 Third, Street, San Francisco, Cal., V.8.A.;
J. Poland Kay Co., 1849 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street,
New York; Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park,
42nd Street and 6th Avenue, New York City; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency, 7lf) Market Street,
Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing Square News
Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fur. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua. Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., Isd.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3 Id.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3, 1920.
LET US MAKE WAR REALLY
FRIGHTFUL.
When the German theory about the neces-
sity of making war frightful first reached
the consciousness of the civilian masses of
the British Empire they were horrified.
They could not see the logic of the proposi-
tion for its barbarity. Nevertheless, as the
fighting warmed up, the Entente armies re-
sorted to frightfulness also; and those on
the home fronts presently found themselves
reading with complacency of the oxtermina-
ton of Huns by means of flame-
throwers, poison-gas and giant mines; while
in the final stages of the struggle the notion
of indiscriminately bombing Germany’s open
towns was popular. Absolution was given
for every sort of atrocity in all the belliger-
ent countries by mumbling over the enemy
slain the sacred word “War.” Unfortu-
nately, from the beginning of the agony to
its end, in every part of the world, the
members of one class, speaking broadly,
suffered in everything from their dignity
to their lives, while the other class found
in the war a unique opportunity for ad-
vancement, honor and profit. “Admit you’re
as sorry as I am that it’s over,” said a
General to a front-rank politician in 191(5.
The politician demurred ; but he brought no
convincing enthus’asm to the disclaimer.
In fancy he seemed already to see the legal
fabric which had made him a despot for so
long crumbling into ruins. One of the
most pernicious features of modern war is
that it is frightful for practically everybody
but those who have most to do with starting
it, and with prolonging it when started.
* * * *
By a lunatic inversion of equity the man
whose position is lowest, and whose rewards
are least, is liable to the heaviest punish-
ments as soon as war begins. The private
soldier, n.e.o. or subaltern who deserts or
shows cowardice, is shot or given a life-
sentence ; the field-officer is “pulled out”
for a rest; the general is provided with a
“home command.” Business incompetence
on the part of one in authority, resulting
in the ruin of the establishment, would be
punished with the sack in civil life. If a
direct effect of the crash was the sacrifice
of thousands of lives —or. for that matter,
of one life —there would be a criminal prose-
cution. In any case the person respon-
sible would not be employed again in a
hurry. In politics the convention is to
let bygones be bygones where criminal in-
eptitude is concerned. An interesting ex-
ample of the system in operation has just
been afforded by the return to Parliament
of ex-Premier Asquith and hia triumphant
reception at the hands of the English Liberal
party. lie refused to supply the British
Army with h.e. shells in 1015—-for much
the same reason that Ministers in N. S.
Wales have been leaving their State V.D.
Act in abeyance since 1918 —and by that
action he cost the nation thousands of price-
less young lives and an incalculable amount
of money. Ilis resultant downfall was
purely temporary. It always is in the
case of politicians whose offences are suffi-
ciently stupendous. None of the diploma-
tists whose efforts to outwit one another
did so much to produce the late war has
been retired except by death. The mad
gambles in which they indulged over and
over again, staking wars against the distinc-
tions which come to successful bluffers in
their line of business, are now public
property, more or less. Sir Edward Grey,
as he then was, may fairly be said to have
put the Bulgarians on the Kaiser’s side.
They could have had Constantinople in 1912:
they were persuaded to leave it. and sign
the Treaty of Londonand when the second
Balkan War came they were turned down
in favor of the Unspeakable One. The
world knows now that the manoeuvre did
not represent common shrewdness and fore-
sight, much less honesty. Yet a few months
ago Grey —now a peer and a K.G.—Went
to Washington as Britain’s representative;
and he would be there still, probably, had
lie kept his views on American politics to
himself. There is another section of What
may be called the world's governing class
which has done wonderfully well out of the
war—the financiers. The Napoleonic wars
made the ROTHSCHILDS j the Boiith African
war the Joels, Neumanns and the rest;
the late war has outrageously aggrandised a
number of mammoth American firms of the
type of Pierpont Morgan and Co., and it
has further bloated older concerns. The
part played by the capitalists in the domi-
nant trilogy—Government, Militarism and
Finance —was formerly almost humble. Not
so now. President Wilson, in “The New
Freedom,” the last book written by him
before his breakdown, remarks:—
The control of credit has become dangerously cen-
tralised. .. .The great monopoly in this country [the
U.S.] is the monopoly of big credits.... We have
been dreading all along the time when the com-
bined power of high finance would be greater than
the power of the Government.
* * * *
What safeguard have the people, the com-
mon people who, in past wars, have had all
the kicks and none of the ha’pence, against
this formidable combination of complacent
asses and calculating scoundrels who,
shielded by international law and custom,
must always win whoever loses? The de-
mand for the punishment of Germany’s war-
criminals provided a sort of half-answer to
a question which is in most people’s minds,
if it is not in their mouths, nowadays. But
the proposed revival of the old Roman prin-
ciple of u Vae victis!” failed to meet the case
of the war-criminals whose countries,
through no fault of theirs, had not been con-
quered. That there were plenty of them is
shown in Philip Gibbs’s latest book: not-
ably the English general who advocated the
shooting of shell-shock sufferers, and the
senior officers responsible for executing the
boy-subaltern whose dreadful case did so
much to discredit capital punishment to-
wards the end of the fighting in France. In
any event the punishment of Germany’s
war-criminals has now been left to Ger-
many, which is equivalent to amnestying
them. No serious effort was made to secure
any of these malefactors, barring, possibly,
the miserable ex-Ivaiser, whose trial, had it
come off, might have dealt the principle
allegedly aimed at a blow from which it
would not have recovered. The only other
hope of security offered lies in the League
of Nations. Its present value may be gauged
from the fact, to which attention was recently
drawn, that at the present moment there
are between 30 and 40 wars in progress,
and many others in the making. The League
of Nations idea bears too close a resemblance
to the Cobdenite prophecies about the mil-
lennium which follow upon the insti-
tution of Freetrade to satisfy practical
people. It pre-supposes that the pride of
strength and human greed and selfishness
can be conjured away by appeals to pure
reason delivered by the representatives of
nations which are themselves arming as
hard as they can. Isolated movements
amongst the nations in the direction of paci-
fism are merely suicidal. A Government
which refuses to prepare for war is no
more virtuous than a trustee who uses the
helpless orphan’s estate to bet with at the
race;?.
Weighing one thing with another it appears
that the likeliest present means of making
future wars impossible, or at the worst im-
probable, consists in making them frightful,
not merely for the helot classes who have
suffered most by them in the past, but for
everybody. Let none escape the conse-
quences of his crimes and catastrophes; not
even the guiltiest. Just as a ranker appears
before a court-martial for the offences com-
mon in his walk of life, and when con-
victed is automatically punished, so there
should be tribunals and scales of punishment
for erring Prime Ministers, generals, am-
bassadors and others. It is commonly said
in defence of lan Hamilton’s generalship
that he knew from the first that the Gal-
lipoli adventure was hopeless owing to
General French’s unwillingness to spare the
necessary men and munitions from the West-
ern Front. He took on the enterprise “be-
cause his temperament did not allow him
to refuse.” But if the alternative had been
a shameful death or imprisonment he
might have hesitated before ordering thou-
sands to a useless holocaust. The conduct
of an ambassador who has provoked a War,
or by his carelessness or inefficiency has
allowed one to break out, is never reviewed.
Ambassadors might take fewer chances if
they understood that their negotiations
would be scrutinised ultimately, the possible
outcome being their own ruin. It is well
over a century since any high Government
official was impeached. It ought to have the
salutary effect of waking Ministers Up to a
sense of their responsibilities if the old prac-
tice were revived, to admit of their failures
being punished at least as severely as those
of men in other walks of life. Why should
the man-o’-war commander whose ship grounds
lose the vessel and be debarred front getting
another, when his First Lor9 may be one
who has hit the bottom With the ship of State
a dozen times? The interests of the finan-
ciers are protected by certain international
laws drafted under their direction. Broadly,
the purport of them Is that belligerents must
be the trustees of enemy financiers. Nations
may shed the blood of their enemies; but
the latter’s money must be carefully looked
after and repaid With interest. That is
not an arrangement which is Calculated to
deter the great financial houses from back-
ing speculative wars; and practically all
wars are forms of trade speculation on one
side or another. But if the international
capitalists knew that all wars would mean
loss to them, while some might mean ruin,
they Would be a good deal more active In
pulling the powerful levers which they pos-
sess for the prevention of war. The people
of any constitutionally-governed State could
accomplish all these changes through their
Parliaments, though at the beginning the
opposition of the executives, the professional
soldiers and the office-men would be fierce.
If they aren't capable of luring Peace to
earth nothing will.
NOT NEGOTIABLE,
TixK experiment of issuing noil-negotiable
Securities htts been mooted by the Federal
Prime Minister. It sounds like a voice 0f
despair crying from the bottom Of a pit of
insolvency) but the financial pit is deep these
days and the despair is genuine. A non-
negotiable bond is one issued at a high rate
of interest to a lender who is bound not to
sell it, no matter how hard pressed he may be
for money, till it falls due and he is paid" for
this disadvantage. It can’t be rushed into
the market and sold down to £94 or £9O or
£BO, like other stock, to make a panic and
wreck other people’s securities and call atten-
tion to the badness of the country’s credit,
and so get in the way of ordinary loans.
That is to say, these things can’t happen till
it falls due. When it falls due it becomes
beastly negotiable and makes just as griev-
ous a .slump as any other loan. It is, in
a manner, an unregistered bill of sale. A
decent and intelligent sort of king Avouldn’t
finance that way, for he wants to leave the
throne and dignity and solvency unimpaired
to his son. A politically indecent sort of
Premier can finance that way or any other
way, for he has only to look as far as the
end of his political life, which is seldom more
than a dozen years ahead. He is always in
the alleged state of Louis XV., who was an
exceptionally venomous king, saying that
things will last his time. Australia already
possesses non-negotiable notes —about
£28,000,000 worth of £lOOO notes which were
compulsorily handed to the banks in return
for compulsory coin—and some non-negoti-
able soldiers’ gratuity bonds; and non-
negotiable bonds or debentures for public
works would be merely another step in the
.same direction. It is the direction that all
the steps go. There are none pointing the
other way.
This particular proposition may be hung
up, but, being once mooted, it isn’t likely
that the non-negotiable idea will be aban-
doned. The purpose in view is the making
of a uniform 4ft. railway gauge from
Brisbane to Perth. The existing line is first
3ft. 6in., then 4ft. 84in., then sft. 3in., then
3ft. 6in., then 4ft. B|in., then 3ft. 6in. It
belongs to six different Governments, all in
difficulties. The conversion of the main
line, big as the work may be, is only a small
part of the problem. The States which are
to have their gauges altered will have to
maintain duplicate lines over the altered sec-
tion, or relay all their lines, or else leave
their old sft. 3in. or 3ft. 6in. lines as so
many isolated systems, each with its sepa-
rate management and batch of vehicles. If
the last plan were followed there would be 12
times as many separate breaks as there are
now, and the situation would be impossible ;
so the presumption is that there will be
duplicate lines over long stretches, and pos-
sibly a complete conversion later on unless
air navigation makes the whole business
obsolete. The proposition, as Prime Minister
Hughes outlined it, is shoddy, hesitating
and incomplete. He did not propose that
the Commonwealth should take over all the
lines, including Tasmania’s unfortunate sys-
tem, and do the work itself, and do future
construction itself, and stop the crazy mul-
tiplication of odd-gauge State lines which will
have to be rebuilt later on. Rather he sug-
gests a division of the cost between the
States and the Commonwealth, so that Tas-
mania will share the Federal part of the
bill, while being quite out of the business
otherwise. And, as a matter of course,
there will be duplicate mortgages as well as
duplicate lines. The old lines aren’t paid
for, not one yard of them ; and the new ones
or altered ones won’t be paid for either.
Everybody possessed of sense has known,
since the establishment of the Common-
wealth and 40 years before that event, that
the question of unification would have to be
faced some day. The work will cost twice
as much as on the first day of the Common-
wealth owing to the amazing increase in the
mileage of the disastrous gauge, and it
will cost four times as much when the in-
creased price of labor and material are
allowed for. It will cost probably twice as
much asjf the matter had been dealt with
when Prime Minister Hughes first becatnC
a steady office-holder, which is, in part, at
least the price Australia has to pay for a
Small AYelshman’s hesitation. But, after fili,
the outstanding feature of the case is the
proposed issue of non-negotiable bonds.
Australia has just received hints that
its father Bull grows sick of its helpless-
ness, its thriftlessness, its moral cowardice
and its loans. He is dunning this country
hndisguisedly for repayment of some
£40,000,000 due for the support of Australian
troops, of which amount £8,000,000 at least
was definitely promised at a certain date
and was not paid. He is besieged simiih
taneously by at least three Ministers, all
sitting on his doorstep in London and
crying out like sturdy mendicants for loans.
He has mentioned that his own Securities are
selling in his own market at prices So low
that in one case they yield as much as 7|
per cent, to the buyer. If that sort of
thing happens to a country which is demon-
strating its solvency by repaying its debts
on a huge scale, it is naturally a question
whether a country .which demonstrates its
otherness by piling up new debts oh a huge
scale and repaying nothing can reasonably
expect to get money under 74 or 8 per cent,
or to get much at any price. The character
of the debtor counts for a good deal, and
when JoiiN Bull is raising £l5 3s. per an-
num per inhabitant in direct taxes, in addi-
tion to very heavy local rates, in order to
shift his burdens, he has a Very humble
opinion of a community that raises only £5
Bs. i)d. iii direct taxes, with very limited
local rates, and yet pleads abject poverty
combined with the possession of unlimited
natural resources. No railway system
known to man is capable, Or at' least has
shown itself capable, of paying interest
to cumulative preference shareholders at the
rate at which Australia now floats hew
loans and renews old ones. It might
pay 3f per cent. On our own money, which
is about the best that the Savings
banks pay, if Australia had the coln-age
to put its Own tax money into them, but
loan rates are a premeditated sliding down
into the pit of rUin.
* * * *
Australia lias lived for 70 years ih a
fairyland of Unrealities —lived among dreams
and visions, and has grown from the small
unspanked spoiled child Of fortune into the
adult remittance-man. It isn’t every coun-
try which finds itself endowed, as this one
did in 1852, with an income in easily-won,
cheaply-won surface gold equal to £43 per
inhabitant per annum, or £215 for the pro-
verbial family of five, all this requiring a
mere handful of population to dig it out,
while the rest were free to pursue their
20,000,000 sheep (about 60 jumbucks per
head) and their cattle and crops and sun-
dries. It certainly isn't every country
where a handful of people (only a little over
5,000,000 even now) found themselves pos-
sessed without war or purchase of
1,902,660,240 acres of land, on all of which,
during 132 years of occupation, not even a
cowshed has been bowled over by the guns
of a foreign enemy. And it assuredly isn’t
every country which, in addition to having
for a good many years nearly enough public
land revenue to live on apart from taxa-
tion. has managed to spend about
£400,000,000 of loan mpney (peace loans:
the war debt, which is getting on for
another £400,000,000, is additional) —about
£200,000,000 in the first 112 years and
£200.000,000 in the last mad 20 years. In
fact, no other country in all history has
done it. And nowhere else has so vast a
proportion of debt been incurred for works
which will have to be torn up or torn down
and reconstructed; on parallel lines which
express State hatred, and on misplaced lines
intended not to develop but to retard the
country in the supposed interests of capital
cities. Nowhere else are 5,000,000 people
blessed with six different railway gauges, or
is the nation able to boast that between
three-fourths and five-sixths of its lines
are run at a loss and that its
principal Government owns a vast sys-
tem of which not one line pays even
working expenses. An impression 70 years
old that for us there were no ten business
commandments led this country to do tricks
which were calculated to drive angels to
drink. Very early the idea grew up that
it was a sin to execute public works of any
sort save out of loans. When a harassed
or embarrassed or scared Treasurer or one
with a sort of conscience stopped loans for
the moment, or they stopped themselves, he
was still a victim to this delusion, and left
off constructing works in order to emphasise
the lie that nothing was possible or allow-
able save with a debt attached to it. In
the days when N. S. Wales paid neither
land tax, income tax, legacy duty nor to-
bacco excise and had a surplus out of land
revenue to boot, it still borrowed as a
matter of principle. In 1881. when West-
ralia’s direct taxation was lOd. (tenpence)
per head per year (before that it was no-
thing) and S.A.’s Is. Id. and Queensland’s
4s. 7d. and N.S.W.’s 55., they began to
borrow more furiously “to relieve the bur-
dens of the .people,” for a feather or a rose-
leaf was considered a burden then. This
explains why Queensland’s purely State
taxation is over 80s. per head per annum
now. and other States are not much better.
It also explains why, unless they abjure the
loan habit —whether ordinary or “not nego-
tiable” —they are all going very soon to be
very much worse.
And from this chaos of delusions and un-
reality the Land of Spoiled Children emerges
with these assets among others: —
A hopelessly misguided idea of its resources and of
its right to be exempt from the common respon-
sibilities of humanity.
An incredibly and pathetically small proportion
of its people trained to the skilled trades which
command high wages. In the woollen business, in
which Australia, as the greatest wool country on
earth, might be expected to excel, it produces only
about 15 per cent, of the cloth it requires, and buys
the other 85 per cent, from abroad at prices which
make life a burden. As for making cloth for ex-
port, that isn’t even dreamed of. And the country
buys most other products of highlv-skilled labor
abroad at prices which make life a burden. As for
houses to live in, they can hardly be got at all.
An incredibly large proportion of its people
trained only to the rough jobs represented ly the


V 900.000.000 Of loan-money which the States have
‘Slewed” in the last 20 years. In fact, there has
arisen a misdirected generation of odd-jobs men who
clamor that the £200,000,000 shall be borrowed
over again and the unpayable works done over
again to save them from want.
A most remarkable array of carpet-bagging
politicians and hangers-on of politics and of would-
be politicians and professional defeated candidates
and professional philanthropists who make a crust
by haranguing these unfortunates about their griev-
ances ” urging them to revenge and revolution, red-
flagging and preaching pro-Hunnism, Bolshevism and
treason to their country. With hardly an exception
these people ignore or directly oppose the idea of
industrial training.
Even If the uext dozen loans are made “not
negotiable” it won’t help the situation much.
A JOB FOR AN A.I.F. DIVISION.
The effective occupation of Northern Aus-
tralia is a military problem. This is the
essential fact; and the dreary failure of suc-
cessive Commonwealth Governments in the
Territory, with its swelling debt, its annual
deficit, its twin plagues of bureaucracy and
Bolshevism and its stationary population, is
the direct consequence of ignoring it. Yet
the North is naturally richer than the South.
It has a copious rainfall, a great coastal
river system, vast areas of cultivable land,
still more enormous tracts of grass country,
gold, copper, tin, wolfram, tantdlite, iron
and coal. Its situation is particularly favor-
able for trade with Java, India, Ceylon, the
Malay States, China and Japan. It pos-
sesses fine harbors, valuable forests, lofty
mountain ranges eminently suitable for sani-
taria, arid at its worst a climate at least
equal to that of the Gulf Stales of North
America, which produce one of the hardiest
breeds of men in the world. And with all
these advantages it remains one of the great
unoccupied regions of the earth. Spread
over an area of a million and a quarter
square tnileS it carries a population less
than that of a Sydney suburb. It contains
no more permanent settlers to-day than it
did when the first Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, accepting its responsibility in Words
but failing to support them by deeds, closed
the North against colonisation by the col-
ored races. In the 19 years that have
elapsed since the White Australia policy was
promulgated by the new authority, (the
world has witnessed a great migration of
white men into the half-fro2eri provinces of
North-West Canada, but there has been no
corresponding movement of population to-
wards the salubrious spaces of Northern Aus-
tralia, In nearly 10 years of Federal rule
the Northern Territory has gained by excess
of immigration over emigration about 1500
people, but the newcomers are, for the most
part, mere sojourners in the land—officials
who owe their jobs to the friendly interest of
some politician; Greeks and Russians and
other foreign birds of passage ; nomadic and
rebellious laborers from the southern States.
And all this happens at an annual cost of
nearly half-a-million,
Clearly it can’t go on. The ghastly farce
of bureaucracy tempered by Bolshevism is
played out in the Territory, and Judge
Ewing has rung down the curtain. That
official descries on the northern horizon a
cloud “which to-day may be no bigger than
a man's hand, but which, if uncontrolled,
will in the future produce a deluge.” Out-
right to hold the North without effective
occupation is not at present challenged,
but it is sure to be challenged some day
“unless an intelligent attempt is made to
populate it with contented citizens who will
give true allegiance and affection to Aus-
tralia” ; and Mr. Ewing indicates not
obscurely that the measures and methods
which, in his judgment, would promote that
object are as far removed from those
hitherto employed as sunshine is from
cucumbers and the moon from green cheese.
He does not go into details, but that was,
not to be expected. The point is that the
job in the North is a military job, a job
for the adventurous youth of the nation,
organised on military or semi-military
lines. It is as necessary for the defence of
the Commonwealth as the war with Ger-
many was, and will have to be approached
in much the same way. When Australia
became embroiled with Germany and Tur-
key, the young men of the nation, who made
so instant and generous a response to the
call of duty, knew as little about modern
warfare, generally speaking, as they did
about the actual work of tropical settle-
ment. _ They had to learn the business of
soldiering from A to Z. They had to be
taught, not only how to fire a rifle and
burl a bomb, but how to dig trenches, make
roads, lay railways, excavate mines, throw
bridges over rivers, and a world of kindred
arts. When they had attained a certain
proficiency they were taken in steamships
to countries far more remote than Northern
Australia, and there they had to acquire
a lot more technical knowledge before they
were put in the line to fight. And always,
whether abroad or in Australia, their health
was carefully studied. The closest atten-
tion to hygiene and sanitation was enjoined
upon them, serum designed to protect them
from epidemic disease was pumped into
their bodies, and in France and England
they were supplied with prophylactic pack-
ets to prevent venereal infection. Periodi-
cally they were withdrawn from tbe trenches
to rest and recuperate, and companies of
actors and musicians, organised for the
special purpose, gave performances for their
entertainment.
These devices grafted upon the vigorous
Australian stock produced the soldiers of
V illers-Bretonneux and Mont St. Quentin.
Similar measures, proportioned to and modi-
fied to suit the matter in hand, would give
North Australia a permanent garrison of
prosperous settlers and save it for the white
race. For a lot less than the money that
has been flung away on tbe Territory during
the past nine years Australia could fashion an
army of the kind that cleaned up the mur-
derous Panama zone; an army trained and
wiuipped for service in the North; an army
that would build the bridges, dredge the
harbors, construct the railways and the
roads, supply labor for the mines and foun-
dries and factories when they came, and re-
cover for their own use and that of the new
State (which in the beginning should stretch
from Broome to Townsville) fertile princi-
palities that, in the existing parody of
colonisation, are simply being shepherded by
wealthy absentee squatters, employers of
Chows and blacks. Naturally, it would be
a highly-paid and adequately-insured army,
rested and recreated and given periodical
holidays as was the army in France; and
serving with it would be detachments of
fever-fighters, nurses, teachers, cooks, house-
workers and the like. For White Australia
is very largely a woman’s question, and
North Australia will need a constant and
ever-growing supply of young and capable
women. The politicians have tried to settle
the North in their fashion, and they have
made an appalling mess of it. Nobody has
ever made a direct appeal to the youth of
Australia to take up the burden, although
there is Warrant for the belief that such
an appeal would be answered in the same
fine spirit as was the call for them to ven-
ture their lives in distant lands in a quarrel
that was none of their seeking, and with
which, it might have seemed to many of
them, their country was only indirectly
concerned. The experiment is worth try-
ing, anyhow. It might fail, but the failure
could not be more appalling than that of
the dismal decade of doctrinairism and
bureaucratism and Bolshevism which An-
drew Fisher started and on which Norman
EwinO has said the last blistering word.
Even as things are, plenty of young fellows
in the over-peopled cities would be glad to
get away to the North if they had the
chance. But the voyage is long and expen-
sive, and unless a youth has a position to
go to, the prospect of getting a billet at the
end of it-—even as a hewer of wood or a
drawer of water—is so dim as not to be
worth the risk.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hughes v. Quick.
A ONION secretary who appeared in the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court last Thursday
remarked mysteriously: “We [unionists]
have a kind of idea in our minds that it
may be the Prime Minister’s idea to break
up this Court.” This by way of passing
comment upon one of Justice Higgins’s
periodical plaints about the bitterness of
his lot. It is deplorable that Hughes should
be suspected of this, and more deplorable that
some of his recent actions should have given
color to the suspicion. At the bottom of the
whole row is, of course, the Federal Court’s
proved weakness. It is 12 long years since
Justice Higgins first awoke to the fact that
Griffith, Barton and O’Connor had half-
drowned his Court in a Serbonian bog of
technicalities. During most of that time
Hughes has been struggling to give it the
fullest possible powers. Powers, that is,
over every detail, inter- and intra-State, of
the nation's industrial life. Over and over
again the electors have refused such powers,
till, at last, the autocratic little man appears
to be in a mood to say to them: “If you
won’t give me the Federal Court I want, I’ll
see you have none at all.” At the other
end of the scale is the school of thought
represented by John Quick. Quick will
not have it that the Federal Arbitration
Court suffers from any serious delimitations.
Does the Commonwealth Parliament desire
to see industries which are inter-State in
character—the sugar or the coal industry,
say—controlled by a Federal Court? The
full power is there under Section 51c. XXXV
of the Act. The fact that, in Queensland, an
essentially Federal body, the A.W.U., has
just obtained a local award which over-rides
that of the Commonwealth Court is disre-
garded, or treated as unessential. These
little anomalies must be endured lest the
most dreadful evil of all befall —the inter-
ference on the part of the Federal Court
in the business of small traders within a
State. So panic-stricken are the Conserva-
tives at this prospect that they even oppose
the holding of the proposed Convention to
consider the amending of the Constitution.
But there should surely be some mean be-
tween Hughes, the maximalist, and Quick,
the irreconcilable enemy of all change. No
one wants to see Justice Higgins’s Court
fixing a common rule in Melbourne for some
obscure industry at the other end of the
continent. But at the same time most
people are heartily sick of the spectacle of
two precisely similar industries, working
practically side by side though in different
States, and doing it on a different wage and
hour basis. That is one of the many ab-
surdities for which a Con ention might be
expected to offer an acceptable cure. The
nation may still be distrustful of Hughes’s
solution of the problem, but it is certainly
not in favor of Quick’s.
«
Megalomaniacs and Slave Traders.
One of the passionate needs of the moment,
as set forth in Hughes’s railway proposals,
or those of his Railway Commissioner, is a
straight line from Hay (N.S.W.) to Port
Augusta (S.A.) to supply a shorter road
from Sydney to Perth. This is set forth as
one of the things that are so urgent that
neither the huge price of loans and labor and
material nor the blank emptiness of the
Treasury nor the drought should stand in
the way. The N. S. Wales State Govern-
ment of course approves, with the difference
that it prefers its already partly-built line
via Condobolin, Menindie and Broken Hill.
Either will cut out Melbourne and Adelaide
from the Sydney-Perth itinerary. It seems
a crazy proposition to start afresh and
extend the Hay line, which has been losing
money heavily for 38 years, when over
200 miles of the parallel Condobolin-
Menindie-Broken Hill line are already built.
If the Hay-Port Augusta line is built as
proposed, and the other isn’t abandoned as
a bad debt, then Sydney people will have
four alternative routes to Perth —the first by
which they will see Melbourne and Adelaide
en route , two shorter ones by which they will
see hardly anything save dust, and the
steamboat route. The question to be
answered is: Are there such a horde of
people in Sydney and Brisbane who are
crazy to get to Perth in the shortest time
that another railway, or two new railways,
of the most hopelessly unpromising charac-
ter, should be built to rush them through?
Seeing that, in its last completed year, the
Federal line from Port Augusta to Ival-
goorlie. which is the main link on the trans-
continental, earned £175,134, and spent
£461,165, it doesn’t look as if there was any
rush. It is proposed, of course, that the
miserable Commonwealth, which is already
losing £256,034 a year on its transcontinen-
tal venture, should build the duplicate line,
and so have an extra railway to support
out of the same mostly-absent traffic. This
proposal is based on the comforting delusion
that the Commonwealth is a foreign insti-
tution and gets its money from some other
source than the people of Australia. Aus-
tralia’s rulers of the moment are mad with
grandiose loan and railway schemes which
want a population of at least 20,000,000 to
carry them, but which, for a mere 5,000,000
folk, suggest a crazed mouse going out to
eat lions. Blatant megalomaniacs find this
sort of thing an easy way of dealing for
the moment with the unemployment trouble,
and have a deranged pride in posing as the
men who did big things and harnessed a
continent. But building big things is only
24 per cent, of the business. Finding the
means to build them is the other 974 per
cent., and leaving the bill to enslave the
children isn’t finding the means. Men with
schemes like those of Australia’s present
rulers aren’t builders —they are only slave-
traders.
♦
Palace Revolutions in Australia.
Certain reports were current lately about
a prospective palace revolution in N. S.
Wales —a sudden, secret caucus revolt which
would depose John Storey from the leader-
ship and make Gregory McGirk chief of
the party and consequently Premier. It may
have been an amusing lie, or a straw thrown
up to see how the wind blew, or a prema-
ture revelation—in which last case it would
naturally be denied until it comes true.
These things don’t matter. The point is
that it isn’t impossible or even violently im-
probable. Palace revolutions are common
enough under Australia’s ridiculous party
system, and the people are no more con-
sulted in the matter than they used to be
in Petersburg or Byzantium. At the State
elections a few weeks ago the people who
gave Labor, not a majority certainly, but an
equal chance, assuredly thought they were
electing as Premier John Storey, a rather
elderly, rather serious boilermaker of long
standing in politics and in union circles, and
with no name for affluence or joyous specula-
tion. But though they thought they were
choosing him for that position, which cor-
responds most nearly to the Presidency of
a republic, they didn’t lcnow it and weren’t
allowed to give a direct vote and make sure
of it. If, on the contrary, they had been
supplied—or if they should be supplied—with
Gregory McGirr, of a different race and a
different faith, a wealthy country property-
owner and a daring speculator, a man com-
paratively young and known as “King of
Parkes”—well, it is no more for the com-
munity to demand a voice in the matter
than for the Russian commons to comment
if there was a funeral in the night and a
new Little Father in the morning. They
might have paid with their votes for a
draught horse and received a trick circus
pony of the Shetland breed. They might
have bought heavy, brown, stomach-filling
beer and been served with the bubble on the
top of champagne. It is all in the day’s
work of Australia’s system of government.
They should consider themselves lucky that
it wasn’t worse—that they hadn’t paid a
three years’ subscription to the Catholic
Persecutor and been served with the
Presbyterian Fury in place of it. A great
deal can be said for the election of the Pre-
mier or Prime Minister by the people for
a fixed term, as the President of the United
States is elected, and a good deal may be
said for the Uncle Sam idea of giving
the elected one a free hand to select his
Ministers, with the one proviso that they
must on no account be members of Parlia-
ment. Then there is no meeting of members
in secret caucus to divide the jobs like
brigands meeting in a cave to share the
plunder. If there is corruption in the
appointment of portfolio-holders it is outside
the Legislature instead of inside, and out-
side is the best place for it.
♦
The Return of an Old Friend.
It is a striking example of the force of
muddled thought that, as an outcome of the
Home Rule row —now approaching a climax
in Ireland —the defunct A.P.D.A. should
have risen from the tomb and spoken, in
both Victoria and N. S. Wales. One
Enright has appeared who is acclaimed as
“a second Dill Macky” ; and things pro-
mise to boom in the sectarian line. As a
Church Rome can have no sympathy with
Sinn Feinism and the republican ideal, both
of which involve principles directly contrary
to the rock upon which all R.C. doctrine
rests —Authority with a very large A. The
error made by provincial-minded and more
or less illiterate persons of the stamp of
T. Henley, M.L.A., of N. S. Wales, is that
of thinking that the opinions of certain Irish
priests represent the aspirations of the Vati-
can. Similarly an English Hodge might
visualise the Pope as a violent Unionist and
Tory because practically all Catholic noble-
men and squires in England are Unionist
and Tory. The Papacy per se has. in fact,
never supported Home Rule; and it has
gone so far at times as to oppose it —as
in the case of Leo Kill’s denunciation of
the movement as “anti-Catholic and anti-
religious.” But national sentiment is not
governed by churches, and consequently
countless Irishmen who are fervent R.C.’s
are also Home Rulers, while the vast majority
of English R.C.’s are Unionists. Religion
has really no more to do with this ques-
tion than it had to do with the American
war of Independence, or the early Austra-
lian demands for self-government; or than
it has to do with the present Egyptian and
Indian claims to nationhood. But the intro-
duction of sectarianism into the Home Rule
fray is not quite so imbecile as it looks.
And for that matter it never has been. All
the churches are suffering more or less from
a dearth of persecution. They are dying of
toleration. Not even Judaism is immune.
No more is one’s doctrinal loyalty stimu-
lated by the spectacle of his religious leaders
bravely contending with intolerant Govern-
ments. And hence empty pews and full
surf-beaches and parks. The raising of
the sectarian cry is, in the case of most of
the clerics who employ it, a pathetic attempt
to warm to life the strenuous religious
atmosphere of the ingenuous past. It gives
certain members of the fold a feeling that
they are engaging in a form of spiritual
combat; and they respond by patronising the
churches and tabernacles of those whose
holy truculencies most appeal to them. It
is good business for the sectarian divines,
and it does no great harm to the devotees.
But an effect is to send eddies of hatred and
recrimination circling away into the re-
motest regions of commercial and social life.
That, really, is the chief objection to the
foolishness: its habit of involving disinter-
ested outsiders in senseless, even damaging,
family and business rows.
♦-
The Starvation of the Schools.
Possibly misled by the mildness of the
speeches and resolutions of the last annual
conference of the Tas. Teachers’ Union, Pre-
mier Lee, who is also the Speck’s Minister of
Education, has run against trouble. An
improved salary list for the lower-paid
teachers, promised many months ago and
fairly due years ago, was so long delayed
that the pinched men and women lost patience
and in desperation decided to take a ballot
of all members of the union as to the ad-
visability of ceasing work. A copy of the
circular fell into the hands of the Minister
and gave that inexperienced potentate a
severe pain in his dignity. On thinking
things over, however, lie made an admission
which paved the way for a conference be-
tween the parties. The press was ex-
cluded, but as the talk lasted four hours
and did not conclude until after midnight, it
is safe to say that it was not a mutual-
admiration gathering. Then a statement
was handed to the press by Premier
setting forth that the teachers’ representa-
tives had agreed to consult their council
on the question of withdrawing the strike-
ballot circular, the Government paying the
expenses of the meeting and arranging the
necessary leave from school, and the De-
partment had agreed, if the circular were
withdrawn, to hasten the reclassification of
salaries and pay any increases agreed upon
from July 1 next. This does not settle
the trouble, but it at least postpones a rup-
ture and may lead to peace by negotiation.
Meanwhile the public is being asked to
absorb the following information: —
Of the 1087 Tas. teachers 505 are paid less than
£l5O per annum. Pastrycooks and bakers get £237.
Of the 505 teachers who draw less than £l5O per
annum 251 are in charge of schools. The average
minimum wage in Tas. for all adults subject to wages-
board awards is £4 6s. Bd. per week, or £225 a
year.
Of the 251 persons in charge of schools and who
do not receive £l5O a year, 37 are men. Brick-
layers must be paid not less than £5 Bs. per week,
or £2BO per annum.
Twenty of the 37 male teachers are married and
are responsible for the maintenance of 32 children.
Their salaries range from £125 to £145, and
average £l3O. The minimum wage for male clerks,
26 years old, with five years’ experience, is £5 per
week, £260 per annum.
One teacher supports six children, besides his
wife and himself, on £125; another with six
children draws £145; two others get £135, and
have three children apiece. Piddington, K.C., of
the Basic Wage Commission, declares that the
minimum living -wage for a man with two children
is £3 17s.
These figures have made even low-wage
Tasmania feel uncomfortable, and though
Premier Lee were the most stubborn Edu-
cation Minister on the planet (which is
doubtful), in addition to being the strongest
Premier in Australia (which he might
easily be, but isn’t), he would still have
to bottle up his more or less justifiable in-
dignation at State servants, particularly
meek pedagogues, threatening direct action,
and listen to reason. The Public Instruc-
tion Departments of all the States are re-
garded by tax-dodging Governments much
as Bumble regarded Oliver Twist ; but
almost any Minister ought to have learnt
by this time that when decently-educated
men and women are hungry, indignant gibes
at their methods of asking for more are
not likely to silence them. In fact, if
this particular' sort of Oliver Twist is
denied reasonable sustenance it is not im-
probable that he (and she) will fall upon
Mr. Bumble and bite him severely.
Theodore’s Tough Job in London.
Among the bouquet of Australians who are in
London trying to raise the financial zephyr
Theodore of Queensland is on the poor-
est wicket. He wants the usual accommo-
dation and £3,000,000 or so for new iron-
works. What people know of his capacity
for organisation and the extent to which
he can be trusted with £3,000,000 is that
his party inherited, in 1915, an established
railway system which was showing a profit
over interest and expenses, and that now it
hardly pays for coal and grease. They also
know that the crowd which keeps Theodore
in office includes the noisiest Bolsheviks,
anarchists and repudiationists of Australia.
Also that he has made or helped to make
one of his political associates Lieut.-Gover-
nor to do Upper House appointments and
assent to Bills for him, while there is talk
of another being made Chief Justice to
decide cases for him. Theodore says sadly
that he finds some of Bananaland’s con-
troversies have an influence in England, and
he regrets that “the venue of local fights”
should be shifted to London. In other words
there is a local fight in Queensland which
might swallow £70,000,000 of Bull’s assets,
and Theodore is sorry Bull has heard of it.
He has had to pose as a devastating
brigand in Queensland to please his motley
following, and he has to be a mild family
solicitor with white mutton-chop whiskers
in England to raise the wind for his motley
following. And just at this crisis the Old
Man in London may learn that a proposal
is to be submitted to the Labor Conference
(the Conference of Theodore’s party) at
Townsville (where the semi-revolution was!
for making the party “part of the world-
wide international movement for the over-


HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
<=□ C A C' [j
0
i
u
m
|| fj -^>
ft
0
>
o
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OP PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this by using Bostock's Dress-
ings, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN bottles AND TUBES.
Bostock's VioSo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
throw of capitalism” and “to break down
imaginary boundaries.” If the Empire’s
boundaries are to be broken down and the
world-wide international movement is to
tramp, heavy-booted, over the ruins to over-
throw capitalism, which .includes Bull’s
£70.000,000 of public debt and a vast
amount besides, the Old Man will naturally
hesitate to cast any more into the den of
lions. When a leader has to explain away
his army in order to get tick for ammuni-
tion intricate manoeuvres become difficult.
The Need of an Arsenal.
From a man who is interested in defence
Shortly after the war broke out a Commission
was appointed and sent to India to report and
advise as to the steps to be taken to establish an
Australian arsenal. A site was chosen, plans were
prepared and approved by the Imperial authorities,
and everything was ready for . a commencement.
However, the opposition of a few optimistic mem-
bers of Parliament, who saw in "the signing of the
Armistice the dawn of perpetual peace, together
with the insistent demand for economy, constrained
the Commonwealth Government to postpone the
project. The official excuse given was that “expert
advice’’ was to he sought before committing the
country to the expenditure, though presumably
before reaching the stage of making £150,000
available for an immediate commencement, and
appointing a manager and secretary, expert advice
had been sought. The “expert advice” turned out
to be that of the erstwhile manager of the cordite
factory, who had been loaned during the war to
the Ministry of Munitions. He had been appointed,
while in England, manager of the projected arsenal,
and on his return was asked, in the light of his
recent English experience, to report as to the advis-
ability of establishing one on the lines laid down
by the Commission which had been sent to India.
He reported that privately-owned factories and
engineering shops in England had been instrumental
in equipping and maintaining the armies raised by
Britain, and recommended that the Government
make arrangements with Commonwealth firms for
their factories to be similarly available in the
event of war. He mentioned that factories manu-
facturing gramophone needles had done splendid
work turning out shell-fuses. But he did not men-
tion the cost of the work done by private firms com-
pared with that of. the Government arsenals. It
is now known that advantage was taken in most
cases to wring fabulous profits from the nation
in its extremity. Further, however ardently we
may desire new industries, the conditions prevailing
in England, which is the manufacturing centre of
the Empire, cannot reasonably be applied to Aus-
tralia. It may be so years hence; it cannot to-
day. It is a cowardly thing, at any rate, for a
Government to sidestep a question of such tre-
mendous moment by placing the responsibility for
deciding it in the hands of one man, and
one who in the nature of things is likely to
have an unconscious bias. The Council of Defence
is surely the body to advise as to the policy to be
adopted. It is known that that body favors a com-
posite arsenal; nevertheless, there is reason to believe
that the recommendation to depend on the private
factories that don’t exist will be adopted.
«,
Though he supported the £IOOO-a-year bill,
T. J. Ryan threw a reasonable gibe at the
patriots who are so fond of protesting that
they could earn more money out of Pari la-
ment. “There’s nothing to prevent them
going out and doing it,” said the ex-Queens-
lander, though for his part he knows very
well that politics give some men an advt. in
their business which is worth thousands a
year to them. Admitting, however, that
there are others to whom this does not
apply, what then? The truth is that in
nearly every such case these men scheme
and twist and struggle and battle to get
into politics with a thirst for something
else besides money. There was a “proces-
sion” in Melbourne the other day. After
waiting hours and hours what did the people
see? A few mounted police, a dozen or so-
soldiers on horseback, the young Prince and
party' in a barouche, and four motor-cars,
containing respectively (1) Hltgiies, (2)
Joe Cook and the Premier of Victoria, (3)
Tudor, leader of the Federal Opposition,
(4) Pbendergast, leader of the State Oppo-
sition. There ended the procession. Five
politicians chasing the Royal visitor through
the streets, in the presence of 400,000
people! That is what two-thirds of the men
who talk and intrigue their way into politics
are after. Limelight, advertisement. For
the work they do in Parliament they should
be paid. But for these men to say that
they should get paid as much money inside
as they could make outside, and for them to
represent themselves as martyrs if they don’t
get it, is not only humbug, but impudent
dishonesty.
P3LG. Wise should get to work on the
telegraph branch. Owing to the so-called
“economies” of Webster this service is in
a shockingly bad way. About a third of
the inter-State business is left over during
the day, cleared up at night, and delivered
netpt dan. This is the case between Mel-
bourne. Svdney and Brisbane, which com-
municate . direct; where relaying has to be
done, as between South Aus. and Queens-
land, and between the eastern and western
States, the position is worse. As a rule, not
half the wires between W.A. and the east
are delivered on the day of lodgment. _ Eor
18 months or more the inter-State business
has been considerably in excess of the capa-
city of the automatic telegraph. But, as a
result of Webster’s “economy,” even its
limited output isn’t expeditiously handled.
E''or example, at 6 p.m. in Melbourne and
Sydney there are 800 auto-telegrams (aver-
age) awaiting translation by the touch-
typists. This accumulation represents the
lodgments at the neighboring capitals from
about 1.30 p.m., and has been received from
about 3 p.m. on. Practically the whole of this
pile and everything thereafter (i.e., every-
thing lodged in the hordering States after
about 1.30 p.m.) is delivered next day—
next, week if it happens.to be a Saturday.
The translating-typiSts average 40 to 50
messages per hour and work seven hours.
The appointment of two or three more of
these typists should enable the staff to keep
right up with the auto, output and afford
the public a reasonably good inter-State
service. Webster “saved” their modest
salaries instead ; and apparently Wise hasn’t
yet looked into the matter. In N.S.W. there
are ample circuits to deal expeditiously with
the business; but because of a shortage of
about a dozen men in Sydney and another
dozen at the repeating centres, thousands
of miles of costly line stands idle in the
afternoons, while the delays string out to
hours. Greater latitude will have to be
allowed the telegraph managers in the mat-
ter of staffing. At present a demand by
any of the capital-city managers, who pre-
sumably know their business, can be over-
ruled by a clerk in Melbourne, who can’t
possibly know anything about it.
The Speck’s annual Labor conference, which
this year met for a couple of shivery days at
Launceston, discussed without much heat
a proposal to knock State control of liquor
out of its platform and substitute a referen-
dum on (1) Prohibition with compensation;
(2) State ownership; (3) Continuance; (4)
Reduction. The supporters of the innovation
THE LANDING OF THE PRINCE.
The Season’s Popular Sport.
argued that as the Initiative and Referendum
make up a plank of the Labor platform it is
illogical for the party to oppose the taking
of a plebiscite on this or any other important
question. Then the tacticians got to work.
They pointed out that the temperance or any
other fair-sized, party might secure a refer-
endum on this or any other subject
if the Initiative and Referendum were
statutorily enacted; but it would be
bad policy to concede a referendum
on the temperance or any other subject while
such questions as the abolition of the House
of Landlords remained beyond the range of
the referendum gun. The result of the argu-
ment was the retention of the old nationali-
sation plank. The Nationalists’ conference,
which met a few days later, in Hobart, also
discussed a liquor-referendum motion, but
several large and agitated delegates sprang
to warn the assembled Nationalists that the
first attempt to secure party solidarity on
liquor would inevitably result in irremediable
disaster. The warning was conveyed with such
obvious earnestness that conference hurriedly
put the stopper on the flow of temperance
effervescence, and proceeded to pass a pious
resolution in favor of scientific research or
something. Both political parties in all the
States seem to be striving furiously in a
sort of donkey-race: the moke that trusts
the people least to be adjudged the winner.
“Murkah” on Wireless v. Cables :
One of the things demonstrated by the war is the
vulnerability of the ocean cable. Immediately on
the outbreak of hostilities the German cables were
slashed, and thereafter, but for their wonderful
world-range wireless stations, Germany would have
been completely isolated. If Australia became in-
volved in war with a nation possessed of a fairly
strong navy, it is long odds that our cables would
promptly be severed. In the absence of suitable
wireless-stations Australia would then be out of the
world. At present, owing to obsolete apparatus and
insufficient power, communication even between
neighboring capitals cannot be guaranteed. Apart
from the possibilities of war it is common knowledge
that our cables have been over-loaded for years past.
It often takes days for a message to travel between
London and Australia. Up-to-date radio beats the
cable for cheapness and (particularly in war-time)
certainty of operation. But there is wireless and
wireless. Radio administration under the P.M.G.
was inept from first to last. Ignorant of the fact
that already (1912) the Poulsen arc system had
demonstrated its absolute superiority over all spark
systems, a poor sample of the latter, not comparable
with the English Marconi or the allegedly-German
Telefunken, was admitted. Thereafter postal adminis-
tration was a wasteful disgrace, and to its lacka-
daisical methods the firancial failure of Australian
radio is largely due. Navy control has been worse.
Recently, for some reason unknown to common-sense,
a 4-k.w. arc set was installed at Pennant Hills, near
Sydney. Presumably, since tests were carried out
with Rahaul, it was desired to communicate with
that station. Of course the tests were absolute
failures, the power being hopelessly inadequate. All
systems using sparks, as Marconi, Telefunken and
others, are obsolete. The various arc systems beat
them at every point. But, excepting for shipboard,
the are itself now ranks second to the two leading
alternator-systems—the Goldsmidt and the Alexander-
son. It is practically impossible to “jamb” or
“blanket” Alexanderson signals. Its range is not
reduced by daylight. And the greater the power the
more efficiently the machine handles it.
♦—
The Argus got right down on its waistcoat
over the Prince’s visit, its attack of bastard
loyalty culminating in the assertion that
“the Empire stands for a spreading influence
of peace and goodwill.... not very far re-
moved from what men call the ‘ Kingdom of
God.’ ” Coming almost simultaneously
with the report of the Commission on. the
Amritsar massacre, such stuff is surely not
far short of indictable blasphemy.
“D.”: It was a stroke of genius to send
the Prince around the Empire before he
grew old enough to lose his illusions. He
has not yet been made a fool of by women
or been let in by his friends (both of which
common experiences came his grandfather’s
way) ; nor has he been the victim of scandal
like his father; nor seen anything much at
all of the baser side of human nature. “We
needs must love the highest when we see it,”
remarked Tennyson; and the Prince evi-
dently still sees the highest everywhere—in
soldiers; in nurses, if not in all women;
even, perhaps, in the Reformatory boys to
whom he waved so cheerfully in M.L. It
is impossible that such a point of view should
fail to win affection. A chronic “tapper”
provided one of the shrewdest appraisements
of him that I have heard. “What a feller
to borrow money from!” he mused, gazing
at one of his smiling photographs.
“There is only one sensible policy for the
N.T.,” the Akgtjs dogmatises, “and that is
largely a negative policy. Grant long leases
to pastoralists and.... agriculture will come,
naturally” ; also “ordinary social life will
follow in time.” But S. Aus. ran the Terri-
tory on those lines for 48 years, and the
population at the end of the period was
3248, largely colored. The area of the Ter-
ritory is 335,116,800 acres, and more than
a third of it (115,000,000 was the last-
recorded acreage) is held under pastoral
lease or grazing license, and yet the popula-
tion (most of it hangs out at Darwin) is
only 4700, Asiatics included. If the whole
335 million acres were taken up by the
squatter and “settled” on the present basis
there wouldn’t be enough white Territorians
to furnish forth a brigade of infantry. As
for agriculture coming naturally, it didn’t
come naturally in the Argus’s own State;
it came as the sequel to a long and bitter
political agitation, necessitated by the “sen-
sible policy” of letting the long-term pasto-
ralist squat on all the choice agricultural
land in the country.
The idea that a member of the Federal
Ministry should be permanently stationed
on point duty in London, in addition to the
High Commissioner and the six Agents-
General and wandering or pilgrim State Min-
isters, evidently has a fascination for the
crowd in office. As a matter of fact there
is much more need for a tailor in Sydney
than a Minister in London. One firm ad-
vertised for people of that ilk for a fortnight
so as to make up Australian cloth, if it
could be got, into Australian clothes, and it
captured only one rare specimen. So there is
room for another —perhaps more.
Dr. Mannix’s heart is set on giving Mel-
bourne an ILC. daily. He refused the
£50,000 offered to him as a personal gift,
but perhaps he wouldn’t (or didn’t) reject
a similar donation to his paper fund. And
maybe his intex-est in journalism from the
proprietorial angle accounts for his intimacy
with John Wren. Wren should be able to
give the Archbishop valuable information
about daily newspapers on the basis of his
experience in Queensland. The advice of
Bishop Gibney, now living in retirement at
Perth, would be more useful still. The
veteran acquired the Perth Morning Herald
in its declining days and ran it for a year
or tw'o, possibly with some intellectual profit
but certainly at enormous financial loss.
Macintosh, now editor of the Australasian,
was on the Herald staff when the crash
came.
From an old Vic. Gallery hand: —
At the Premiers’ Conference in Melbourne West-
ralia, the largest State in area, was represented by
the biggest men in the crowd, Premier Mitchell and
Mines Minister Jack 'Scaddan; and Walter Lee,
from the Speck, was the midget among the Premiers.
The elimination of Holman has left the States with
a duller mind. Storey promises well, but he is as yet
ill-informed. Acting-Premier Fihelly, of Queensland,
makes the best showing on the States’ side; it was
a treat to hear him rubbing the charge of extrava-
gance into the Commonwealth, even though it was
a case of the Devil rebuking sin. Lawson, of
Victoria, makes a fine chairman; if he has a fault
it is that he is too long-suffering. Barwell, the
new Premier of S. Australia, is a trifle deaf, but
doesn’t know how to make use of his infirmity as
Hughes does.
One of the worst turns the new Labor
leaders have done to democratic government
in Australia has been to destroy the high
purpose of the referendum. The referen-
dum was to be the ultimate appeal to the
people. The party leader, however, scorned
government by the people: he wanted gov-
ernment by the party, and again and again
made an appeal to the people so much of a
party matter that men who refused to vote
and speak the right way were banished.
The result was shown lately in Tasmania.
Some members of the Labor Conference
wanted a referendum on the liquor question.
But the majority turned it down on the
ground that a party must not approve of a
refei’endum unless it is prepared to vote
“Yes.” And so general has this distorted
view become that the other side in
Tasmanian politics shied from a referendum
on the same subject for precisely the same
reason—if it consulted the people it must
first be able to agree on how the people should
vote; and because it couldn’t agree as a
party on that, then it couldn’t agree that
the people should be consulted at all. So
instead of being the sheet-anchor of demo-
cratic government, the referendum has for
the time being been turned by party bosses
into a confidence trick.
“Lex”: In the Worrell murder case the
only motive suggested is the man’s desire
to be rid of the woman’s nagging. She may
or may not have been a nag, but it is a
fact that the problem of the nagging wife
has been given far too little attention by
criminologists. Many women nag as the
canary sings. The well-to-do man can get
away from it ; the man with an alert and
educated mind can return vei’bal scorpions
for each whip he gets; but the inarticulate
type of worker is helpless. He resembles
an overweight bull stirred up by a front-
rank picador. A great London detective
believed that many deaths of women which
have been accepted as accidental because
apparently motiveless were murders com-
mitted by husbands to whom the ladies
had been faithful wives and efficient and
economical housekeepers but intolerably dis-
agreeable companions. Worrell’s position
was such that if he had brought any intel-
ligence at all to the business of doing aw T ay
with his wife—turned the boat over and
di’owned her, say, or pushed her over a
cliff —no suspicion would have rested on
him. It is hard to believe that he preferred
the means he adopted of severing the mat-
rimonial tie. Such a case has to be kept
in mind in considering the widening of the
present grounds for divorce, with an eye
not so much to the whim of one party to
the contract as to the ,safety of the other.


Empire Defence and tHe Safety of Australia,
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will he primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence.”
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
Minister Dunn thinks he is on the track
of people in or around Sydney who have
produce but won’t sell it, though it is the
commodity they are supposed to deal in. He
is after them with a meat-hound or some
such animal. While he is on the job he
might buy a swift Skye terrier —quite a
big enough animal for an easy job—and see
what he can do with some people who have
time to sell and won’t sell that. The
bricklayer, being a day worker, isn’t paid
for his work, but for his time. And he isn’t
merely hoarding up a half-day per week to
be sold at an advance later on, which would
be bad enough, but is throwing it into the
sea of oblivion. Saturday is still Baby
Killing Day—the day when the building
man makes a sacrifice so that his fellow-
toiler’s infant may have less house-room to
suffocate in; and union officials go round
making impassioned appeals to weak-kneed
brethren who are suspected of being non-
killers.
An unexpected feature of the Prince’s
show in Melbourne was the demonstration
against Hughes. Wherever he appeared he
was greeted with hoots, and he had such a
doing when whizzing home from the naval
review that he took a side-street in a dash
for privacy. At St. Kilda and in front of
Menzies’ Hotel and Federal Parliament
House the yelps of disapproval were especi-
ally bitter. Of course it doesn’t take many
people to make a great noise; but the rumble
was so general that Hughes is bound to take
notice. And that may have an important
bearing on future events.
The passionate demand that Father Jer-
ger should have a “hearing” before being
chipped to Germany is rather discounted by
the fact that the full High Court—the
fullest and highest institution in Australia
—did hear him in Melbourne. So the case
is somewhat akin to that of the I.WAV.
arsonists for whom a “hearing” is demanded
iust as furiously though they have had three
already. The Court held that Jerger had
a German mother, a German father and a
German stepfather; that he was born in
Germany; and that he wasn't naturalised.
Further, there was evidence that he was vio-
lently anti-Ally. His religion probably
brought him some friends, but all manner
of 'sturdy atheists and tough unbelievers
rallied to him for his pro-Hunism. The
giving of a fair hearing being so much on
the board, some Jergerites might now think
about one for Higgs, M.H.R., an Austra-
lian Laborite of long standing who was
thrown out of the party on the mere say-so
of some party bosses, after the people had
expressed their confidence in him by re-
electing him. Jerger can take his holy call-
ing and his money-earning capacity to Ger-
many with him, but a Labor politician’s job
isn’t quite so portable. So Higgs needs a
hearing more than Jerger.
The fact that the N. S. Wales railway strik-
ers of 1917 haven’t been fully restored to
their old seniority and to all the privileges
that they abandoned when they left off
work shows, Minister Dooley says, “such
brutal vindictiveness” as he never knew
before, either here or in America. And
yet Mr. Dooley is a member of a party
which hands out sentences of victimisation
for lifi> to old members who fall under the
displeasure of a temporary caucus majority
or a State Labor Council, and does it as
casually as Nero burning an odd Christian
before breakfast.
The Japanese expect to enter Australia
“on the rock of unionism.” So a Jap trader
in the Marshall Islands confided to T. J.
McMahon. And there is a sinister brand of
unionism (imported, of course) to encourage
the expectation: the sort of unionism that
MR. MICAWBER WATT WAITING FOR TIIE INDEMNITY TO TURN UP.
regards the coolie as a brother and the Aus-
tralian employer, however decent, as a deadly
enemy. Incidentally, The Bulletin, for
its own part, doesn’t mind the coolie being its
brother in theory, so long as he doesn’t come
where he will be liable to be its brother-in-
law in practice.
A Red army lias reached the southern
shore of the Caspian, and is within 300
miles of the Persian oil-wells. Hughes’s
agreement with the Anglo-Persian Oil Co.
looks pretty sick. It seems almost worth
while giving the oil-shale deposits of Wolgan,
Capertee. Murrurrundi and Tasmania a bit
of attention. No Red army has yet been
sighted within several miles of any of those
places.
When Booligal wanted a culvert from the
loan vote and Balmain a septic tank, they
used to do the business through the local
member. Now Booligal has three members
and Balmain five, and the Storey Govern-
ment, which is economising furiously, de-
crees that Booligal must in future write to
its three members, and Balmain to its five, who
will send as many covering letters to the
Minister, who will reply separately to each
member, who will communicate the Minis-
terial decision to Booligal and Balmain on
his own account. It seems a brilliant
method of provoking trouble, and wasting
stamps and paper and time and typing-
material, but, after all, it is a natural exten-
sion of the system of government under
which Australia makes out two land-
tax papers, two income-tax papers and
two electoral claim cards—three in the
States which run elective Houses of
Fat —where one would suffice. A lot
of people would be looking for toil if
the country gave up doing the one thing
several times over. The multiplying of un-
necessary jobs is getting to be its principal
industry.
The need for redistribution of seats in
Queensland amounts to a scandal, but the
Theodore-Fihelly combination won’t tackle
the job. Bulimba has 11,574 on its roll and
Kennedy 2073; Windsor 10,423 and Burke
1987; Nundah 9203 and Ohillagoe 1800.
According to the Redistribution of Seats
Act the quota for each electorate is to be
arrived at by dividing the number of elec-
tors by the number of seats. Chillagoe’s
quota should be 5830. But Chillagoe is
represented by the Premier, and it would
never do to wipe out his seat. There are
29,302 more names on the State rolls than
there are on the Federal rolls, but things
like that have a knack of happening where
a certain kind of Government is hanging-
on to office by the skin of its teeth.
Oaten hay brought £22 a ton (rather over
2Ad. a pound) in Sydney last week, and
straw was £9 a ton. Victoria has fodder
to spare, but owing to the break of gauge at
the border the stuff has to be discharged
on the Vic. side and re-loaded on the N.S.W.
side, and under these conditions only a
hundred trucks per day can get through.
Meantime the N.S.W. Government is exhibit-
ing moving pictures of cows and sheep in
the last agonies of death from starvation,
and a conference of Premiers and other
futilities, the 19th or thereabouts since
Federation, has decided that the conversion
of the gauges will really have to be con-
sidered some day.
The Speck’s new Government Shipping
Department now has a manager, a secre-
tary, an accountant and an office. The only
tiling it hasn’t got, and isn’t likely to get
for a while, is a ship.
The curse of the new tariff again ! With
tears in their eyes Cadbury’s are establish-
ing at Claremont (Tas.) a factory that will
cost £200,000. employ 000 hands, require 5000
gallons of milk a week, and supply 14,000
tons of freight per year to the Government
railways—that directly; how much indi-
rectly no man can say.
An accommodating young man is McTier-
nan, N.S.W. Attorney-General. On May 18
he represented his Government at a Town
Hall luncheon, from which the toast of the
King was omitted, and described Mannix as
the greatest man in Australia. On May
24 he delivered an Empire Day oration at
Dulwich Hill School, mentioning in the
course of it that “the three most important
facts the children should bear in mind were
loyalty to God, loyalty to the King, and
loyalty to one another.” A political lawyer
who can swing from Mannix to Meath in
six days should go far in his chosen profes-
sion.
Stung by the Federal proposal to reduce
by 2s. Gd. a head per year the present 25
bob-a-nob payment to the States, Fihelly
burst into indignant reproaches at the Pre-
miers’ Conference. “For the past 10 years,”
he protested, “the Commonwealth has been
indulging in an orgy of extravagance, and
now it wants to take a few paltry millions
away from the States because it is hard up.”
The taunt might come with some warrant
from Victoria, which has been reasonably
provident, but from Queensland, with its
ghastly record of nine millions of loan money
spent in four war years, it suggests a
small and abusive pot complaining of the
kettle’s complexion.
Being quite unable to get out of the
familiar groove, W. M. Hughes tags on to
his immigration proposals that preference
should be given to ex-soldiers, and that the
States should agree to “provide these men
with land and other forms of assistance,”
including “employment on public works.” If
any man is found heading this way who
requires to be “put on the land” or supplied
with a job on public works, he should be
left at a wayside pub. Australia wants
skilled artisans of all sorts and factories
and machinery to employ them. But it
doesn’t want more drought-relief cases, nor
additions to the loan-supported army.
The chief object of William McMillan’s
new British Empire Union was stated last
week to be “to keep a watchful eye on
German trade.” McMillan is an importer;
and considering the part the importers played
in building up the Kaiser’s army and navy
by the purchase of German manufactures, it
would be desirable to have a thorough expla-
nation of the meaning of the phrase.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The average age of the Federal Hansard man is
probably about the same as that of the Federal
Parliamentarian, and he doubtless lias much the
same family responsibilities. Hansard men are
always on the job while Parliament is sitting, which
the M.P. isn’t. They have gone through a tedious
apprenticeship to their business, which M’s.P.
haven’t; and the nature of their duties involves a
much greater nerve-strain than that suffered by most
Parliamentarians. Yet the maximum rate now paid
for this skilled and trying occupation is only a
trifle more than half the new rate which Federal
members are arranging to pay themselves. There
was a time when Hansard reporters received £lOO
a year more than the members they reported; and
from the way things have been re-arranged you can
guess who has done the re-arranging.
Sydney Evening News, denouncing
“Democracy’s Tyrants” last Saturday, re-
marked :
When the preposterous influenza restrictions were
imposed last year, Ministers did not themselves
attempt to justify them. They merely said that
they were recommended by the experts.
But the bureaucrats are almost helpless in
a democratic country without a pliant party
press; and, as the News may recall if it
searches its own files, that is just what the
Nationalist Czars had behind them during
the influenza epidemic.
If the first Commonwealth Parliament
had set about unifying the railway gauges
instead of talking about it, the job, at
the then price of labor and material and
with only half the present mileage, could
have been done for £15,000,000. Since 1901
the States that don’t use the 4ft. gauge
have built 11,000 miles of railway, and to
transform that lot will lick up £00,000,000.
For a tenth of £60,000,000 the Common-
wealth could have built both western
and northern transcontinental, whereas the
Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta line has cost
£7,000,000 without ballast, and no railway
contractor would look at the Oodnadatta-
Katherine River proposition at less than
£10,000,000. It doesn’t pay to procrastinate
on national questions.
Vic. shire councils are. going to ask
the State’s Forest Commission to do a
fair thing. At present forest areas pay no
municipal rates. The Upper Yarra Shire,
to produce a sample, contains about 800
square miles, half of it timber-reserves.
Roads ribbon these reserves to reach scat-
tered settlements; and though many of the
tracks are used as much by timber-getters
as anybody, and though the timber-teams
cut them up worse than all the other traffic
put together, the occasional cocky has to
supply all the money to keep the ribbons in
repair. The Forest Commission, which gets
as much revenue from the country as many
a cocky gets from his, pockets its royalties
and doesn’t contribute a cent of the local
revenues. This system of giving backstairs
concessions—of raising loans “free of Fed-
eral and State income-tax,” and so on—is
far too prevalent in Government offices, and
in nine times out of ten the object is to
hoodwink the people.
THE PRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“It is the custom of the press to vilify Parliamen-
tary institutions....! have lived for 20 years and
flourished, despite the press; and, although I am a
member of a party that sometimes takes a great
deal of notice of it, I never do.” —Prime Minister
Hughes in the House of Reps.
In sombre wrath the great man rose and raised his
hands on high
Clenched in a gesture truly wild, with red fire in
his eye.
Proud in his rightful place he stood, the sovereign
people’s choice,
And there, a figure of pale scorn, he lifted up his
voice.
“Arrh, shame!” he cried and flung liis fists as far
as he could reach,
“That still the press should profit not by what we
elders preach !
“A pail of whitewash in one hand, his other quick
to seize
A ready forelock —ready, too, to drop upon his knees
When need there be to indicate a truly humble mien—
This is the proper pose of such as in the past have
been
Too prone to slug the lifted head and take a whack
at him
Who fain would be like Gabriel among the cherubim.
“The pressman—if, indeed, the blighter’s visible at
all—
A shr-r-rinking vi-o-let should be, among the poppies
tall.
He should not tell us what to do, or be, or think,
or say,
But gather up the pearls of speech we offer day by
day.
Aye, when the press with inky balm refuses to anoint
The wise elect among us—why, the times are out of
joint!
“What is the duty of the pen, so mightier than the
sword ?”
Obediently his hearers answered “What?” with one
accord.
“For words to paint the lily and to grease the
fatted pig
Among its stores of language should the press un-
ceasing dig.
Of course, for printed praise or blame, 1....d0....
n0t.... give.... 0ne.... d—n !
Yet, we should have our just deserts. Butter,” he
said, “and jam!”
victoria.
FRANK HENTY.




BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers'on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. Tj. SPIACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, EC. 2
A. .P. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
It. X. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: G 2 BROOK MAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIK 6.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Qualify throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gellg-nite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of A ew South Wales
when seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. S B
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
v To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1911. .£20,529 7 p.c.=£10,500£10,029 £153,492
Sept., 1911.. 20,18jl 7 ~,, 10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22;?7-l 8 „ „ 127000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912.. 22,4.64 8 „ „ 1'2,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 1913.. 23,052 8 ~ „ 12,000 11,052 195.459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 8 „„ If,ooo 10,637 206,096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069' 8 „ „ 12,000 11,069 217,165
Reserves disclosed ’ .. 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914. . 20,18.0 8 p.c. = 12,000 8,180 240,345
Mar., 1915. . 19,316- 8 ~ „ 12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1915.. 17,255 8 „ ~ 12,000 5,255 252,916
Mar., 1916.. 19,485' 8 „ „ 13,000 7,485 260,401
Sept., 1916.. 19,590 8 „ „ 12,000 7,590 267,991
Mar., 1917.. 22,164 8 „ „ 12,000 10,164 278,155
Sept., 1917.. 22,307- 8 „ „ 12,000 10,307 288,462
Mar., 1918.. 25.256* 8 „ „ 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept., 1918.. 26,180 8 „ „ 12,000 14,180 315,898
Mar., 1919.. 29,413’ 8 „ „ 12,000 17,413 333,311
Sept.. 1919.. 41,489 9 „ „ ?2,500 18,989 352,300
Mar., 1920.. 46,695 10 „ „ $5,000 21,695 373,995
Nine years ago the Royal Bank was distri-
buting 7 p.c. p.a. divs. on a £300,000 paid
capital; but expansion has been so rapid
during recent years and profits so handsome
that the directors are now paying 10 p.c.
with ease on a capital increased to half a
million. Latest net profits represented
almost 19 p.c. of paid capital, but since
£373,995 of visible reserves has been accumu-
lated net earnings gave a £lO 13s. Bd. p.c.
return on total shareholders’ funds in the
business, which compares with £9 2/. for the
March term preceding the war. The Royal is
one of the most vigorous of the younger banks
—it was established in ’88 —and it has a
very solid commercial backing; the Board
of four comprises R. .T. Alcock (James Ser-
vice and Co.), A. Mac Neil (Briscoe
and Co.). E. N. Grimwade (Felton, Grim-
wade and Co.) and A. E. Bright (Gibbs,
Bright and Co.), a quartette who look as
though they should influence much business.
A London branch was established only six
years ago. and since then gross profits and
expenses have bounded ahead in this way:—
March
Half-year. Gross Profits. Expenses.
1914 £37,426 £14,351
1915 35,166 15,850
1916 37,881 18,396
1917 42,873 20,709
1918 47,383 22,128
1919 55,446 27,898
1920 76,119 29,423
None of the other smaller banks in the
Commonwealth showed such rapid progress
during that disturbed period. Certainly dis-
closed net profits did sag for a time, but this
was probably due more to the management
providing against troubles which might re-
sult from the abnormal conditions than to
actual falling off of earnings. To what
extent the Royal has made internal provi-
sions for losses is, of course, not visible;
in the accounts there have been no admis-
sions. of any writings-down—not even of
premises. Instead, just after the war began
£15,000 of internal reserves were brought
into the light—net surpluses on realisation
of old written-down boom-time assets —a
proceeding which indicated that the direc-
tors, who by their utterances showed that
they were alive to the dangers of the war
situation, were well satisfied with the lOU’s
on the premises.
The reasons why the Royal’s profits have
expanded so rapidly are made plain by this
comparison of the balance-sheet figures :
Liabilities.
March,T4. March,T9. March,’2o.
Notes .. .. £1,103 £859 £859
Bills, etc. . . 59,322 382,903 239,574
Free deposits . . 833,490 1,371,534 2,062,503
Fixed deposits .. 1,491,800 2,179,510 2,008,262
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,261,233 1,356,829 2,090,326
Advances . . . . 1,590,682 3,263,494 3,004,168
Premises, etc. . . 62,965 116,660 115,700
At March 31 last the management thus held
over four millions of the public’s money
compared with 2J millions only six years
ago. Though in March, 1919, the Royal
held only £6 4s. of the public’s money for
every £ of its own, the directors saw that
prospects of expansion were so promising
that they invited shareholders to put up a
further £200,000. This was a wise move,
for not only did it give the Royal a more
formidable appearance so far as its guarantee
of security to creditors was concerned, but
it also enabled the management to take up
good slices of public securities offering at
high rates. Apparently every penny of the
new capital got in went into War Loan. The
effect on. the holding of liquid assets is
shown in this comparison:—
Mar.,’l4. Mar.,T9. Mar.,’2o.
Coin and Australian
notes, etc £809,071 £775,592 £959,700
Short call money .. 21,547
Notes and bills of other
banks . . .. 816 5,842 6,491
Bills in transit .. 377,677 458,286 772,728
Public securities .. 73,669 117,108 329,860
The expansion of the income-earning items
among the liquid assets, together with the
£1,413,486 increase in advances, explains
clearly why gross profits have more than
doubled since the war began.
The additional capital and the substantial
reserves stored up during the years when
divs. were' restricted have put the Royal in
a strong position. After payment of the
current dividend shareholders’ funds
amounted to £873,995, and liabilities to the
public totalled £4,311,195, the bank thus
holding under £4 18s. for every £ of its
own. Creditors are thus very well protected,
and the management could be entrusted with
half as much again of the public’s money as
it at present holds and still funds would
provide reasonable protection. To meet the
£2,220,872 of liabilities not represented by
liquid assets the Royal has £3,004,168 of
advances and also the premises with a book
value of £115,700. No less than 484 p.c.
of all liabilities were held liquid at March 31.
* * * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
To Re- Re-
Proflts. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., T 2. . £7773 Nil £7773 £34,247
Mur., ’13.. 7302 71p.c.= £SU7 2185 36,432
Sept., ’13.. 8653 7j „ „ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar., T 4.. 6365 7| „ .. 5248 1117 40,943
Sept., T 4.. 5021 Nil 5021 45,964
Mar., ’15.. 5008 *6 p.c.= 8397 42,575
Sept., T 5.. 3655 5 „ „ 3499 156 42,731
Mar., T 6. . 6014 7 „ „ 4898 1116 43,847
Sept., ’l6 5936 7 ~ ~ 4898 1038 44,885
Mar., T 7. . 8081 10 ~ ~ 6998 1083 45,968
Sept., T 7.. 7968 10 „ „ 699 S 970 4G,938
Mar., ’lB.. 7741 10 „ „ 0998 743 47,681
Sept., TB. . 8037 10 „ „ 6998 1039 48,720
Mar., T 9.. 7970 10 „ „ 0998 972 49,692
Sept., T 9.. 8212 10 „ „ 6998 1214 50,906
Mar., ’20.. 9821 10 „ ~ 6998 2823 53,729
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
Nicholson’s directors have suddenly become
less communicative. Formerly the balance-
sheets frankly detailed assets; but though
shareholders are still fully informed on such
trifling details as the amounts of till-money
held by the Newcastle and Toowoomba
branches, the two largest items—hire-pur-
chase balances and stocks—are now in one
portmanteau. It is an unsatisfactory jumble,
and the concealment of the extent of each
of these widely-different classes of assets
is liable to weaken the confidence of inves-
tors. This co.’s t.-p. business is very large:
six months ago an amount nearly £27,000 in
excess of paid capital was represented by
balances due on long-distance purchases.
Still, the advances to customers are probably
no greater now than they were just prior to
the war. For a time, indeed, the t.-p. business
fell off, but when large stocks again became
available the co. was once more able to
widen its circle of customers with ease, for
though they had participated in the most
expensive war in history they had not been
called upon to pay more than a few pence
in the £ of its cost, and because of the war-
loan spendings have considered themselves
better off than they ever were before.
Nicholson's disclosed profits for the past
six months were the best yet recorded ; they
were equal to 14 p.c. p.a. of the paid capital
of £140,233. So the 10 p.c. to shareholders
is now paid with greater ease. But since
the ck>. is trading in goods which can only
be regarded as luxuries, for which there
would be limited sales in dull times, that rate
of div. cannot be regarded as a sure thing in
future. The extent of the book debts is
also a matter which the investor must not
overlook when considering the market price
of the shares, for though at times like the
present this business is lucrative, adverse
conditions might very easily result in a sud-
den swarm of book debts and a lot of second-
hand goods being thrown on the co.’s
hands. How far this item is protected be-
yond the bad debts reserve of £5OO is not
visible. But shareholders’ capital should
be safe enough even if things went badly for
a time, for after payment of the latest divi-
dend there were visible reserves of £53.729
—an amount equal to 31 p.c. of paid capital.
The City and Suburban Building
Society (Brisbane) :
Added
Dividends and Written to Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1910.. £5068 4J p.c. = £3376 £l2BO £412 £7,023
1911.. 5329 4| „ „ 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912.. 5792 5 „ „ 4023 517 1252 9,456
1913.. 6362 5 „ „ 4021 1208 1133 10,589
1914.. 6458 6 „ „ 4767 1691 12,280
1915.. 6330 5 „ „ 3791 2539 14,819
1916.. 6008 6 „ „ 4503 1505 16,324
1917.. 6165 6 „ „ 4506 1659 17,983
1918.. 6199 6 „ „ 4512 1687 19,670
1919.. 5976 6 „ „ 4506 1470 21,140
1920.. 5775 61 „ „ 4869 150 756 21,896
Net profits for the past year were smaller
than for any other 12 months since 1911, yet
business has never before offered in such
large volume. The management says that
so great has been the demand from people
who wanted to own their own homes that
twice the amount of loans granted could
have been placed on the books had funds
been available. But chiefly owing to the
war loan operations of the Commonwealth
Government during recent years building
societies have not been able to attract de-
posits as they used to; this Brisbane society
in 1914 held £104,741 of borrowed money,
but five years later had only £50,720. Dur-
ing the past year it was able to increase the
amount to £89,982, and that only by offering
5 p.c. p.a. for 12 months’ deposits and an
additional p.c. for money left with it for
two years or more. On the other hand, the
management has been asking a little more
from borrowers: interest earnings on loans
and investments for the past 12 months
worked out at £7 3s. Sd. p.c.. compared with
the £6 18s. p.c. earned in 3914. Deducting
payments to depositors, the net interest
revenue has improved; but though working
expenses are much the same as they used to
be, State and Federal income-taxes have
moved in six years from £253 to £S7S.
Hence the drop in net profits. However,
since a reserve fund of over £20,000 has been
accumulated by restricting dividends in the
past, the directors evidently thought it time
to give shareholders a little more than 6
p.c., so the latest div. was lifted half a point,
making the return to shareholders on their
total funds in the business slightly under a
mild 5 p.c. Since the volume of these share-
holders’ funds exceeds all liabilities to the
public, depositors are well protected; put
another way, to meet their £75,396 not
represented by more or less liquid assets at
Feb. 29 there were advances with a book
value of £168,901, along with the fi’eehold
premises, which are still included at the
£7OOO that was paid for them 17 years ago.
* # * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. of Maorila.nd (Dunedin) :
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1908.. £lBBO 15 p.c. = £l5OO £3BO £11,174
1909.. 1847 15 „ „ 1500 347 11,521
1910.. 2185 15 ~ ~ 1500 685 12,206
1911.. 1880 15 „ „ 1500 380 12,586
1912.. 2190 15 „ „ 1500 690 13,276
1913.. 1876 15 ~ „ 1500 376 13,652
1914.. 1709 15 „ „ 1500 209 13,861
1915.. 1624 15 „ „ 1500 124 13,985
1916.. 1911 15 „ „ 1500 411 14,396
1917.. 1856 15 „ „ 1500 356 14,752
1918.. 1936 15 „ „ 1500 436 15,188
1919.. 1872 15 „ „ 1500 372 15.560
1920.. 2309 15 ~ „ 1500 809 16,369
This co. revealed the extent of its trusts for
the first time in 3906, in which year—its
24th—it was taking care of £3,290,047. At
March 31 last it had under control estates
of a book value of £2,654,502. But earn-
ings have not kept pace with the growth of
business. No doubt the competition of the big
State Public Trustee Office is responsible, for,
besides whatever influence it has had on
commission rates, since 1915 the State office
has been sharing its profits with benefici-
aries. With this tempting bait offering, it
is surprising that the Trustees, Exec, and
Agency Co. has been able to retain its hold
on its clients so well, particularly since in
the State office the Government will guaran-
tee any loss of principal if it is allowed to
choose the investment. If the future holds
little promise of anything very fat for share-
holders, they have nothing to complain
about. For many years regular 15 p.c. p.a.
dividends have been paid, and always there
has been a tidy bit over to add to reserves.
Because of the growth of these accumulated
profits, the 15 p.c. nowadays gives only a
mild return on shareholders’ funds in the
business: reserves are over 1| times the
size of paid capital, and that means that
shareholders actually get a return of
slightly under 6 p.c. But the old hands have
525. 6d. snugly invested for every £ they
put up.
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1909.. £2044 2| p.c. = £843 —■ £l2Ol £36,579
1910.. 2713 2$ „ „ 843 1870 38,449
1911.. 5597 3J „ ~1124 £11,553 31,369
1912.. 4848 5 „ „ 1686 3162 34,531
1913.. 3211 5 „ „ 1686 10,613 25,443
1914.. 1116 2i „ „ 843 2,305 23,411
Loss.
1915.. 2511 Nil 20,900
1916.. 1590 Nil 19,310
1917.. 206 Nil 19,104
Profit.
1918.. 3282 Nil 3282 22,386
1919.. 961 II p.c. = 562 399 22,785
1920.. 5362 3 ~ „ 1124 4238 27,023
This is the last time the 34-year-old Grand
Hotel Co. will issue accounts, a Sydney
crowd having bought out the concern, to-
gether with the adjoining Old White Hart,
with the intention of promoting a new co.
to provide Melbourne with an elaborate
modern residential hotel. The Grand was
a boom-time float, and the table shows the
uphill fight the management has had to try
to earn a bit for shareholders. Hotel pro-
perty and furniture stand in the books at
£106,375, deducting the £3OOO depreciation
fund. But there is a £50,000 mortgage on
the property, paid capital being unß
£39,343, though at the latest balance £-4,0_.>
of accumulated profits were nOO
impel-). The new crowd takes over the *50.000
mortgage and pays a further £oo,ooo t
the old co. The Grand shareholders appear
to have made a good bargain, toi they
ceive £11,240 in cash and £3B, <«*—a
amount not far short of paid capital in
debentures, and though the rate ot mte •
which is to be paid on these debentures 1
not disclosed, it is certain to be considerab y
better than the miserable average ot just
over 2 p.c. which has been distributed in
divs. during the past 10 years. Apart from
the £1696 of stores and book debts, at tlie
latest balance the Grand had also a surplus
of cash assets over liabilities of almost
£5300, and presumably shareholders will
also get this.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., T3..17.GG4 10 p.e. = 7,500 3205 0,959 49,502
Sept., 43..18,084 10 „ „ 7,500 3303 7,281 56,783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 .. 38,033
Mar., ’14..10,032 10 p.e. = 9,207 3500 3,325 41,358
Sept, ’14.. G,400 5 „ „ 4,997 3500 39,261
Loss.
Mar., ’15.. 713 Nil 3500 35,048
Profit. ,
Sept., ’15..10,533 5 p.c.= 5,000 3500 2,033 3/,081
Mar., ’16.. 9,828 5 „ ~ 5,000 3500 1,328 38,409
Sept., ’10..10,254 6,. .. 6,000 3500 754 39,163
Mar., ’17.. 9,983 6„ ~ 6,000 3750 233 39,396
Sept., ’17.. 9,917 0 ~ „ 6,000 3750 167 39,563
Mar., ’18..14,797 8 ~ ~ 8,000 3750 3,047 42,610
Sept., ’lB.-14,756 8 ~ ~ 8,000 3750 3,006 45.C10
Mar., ’19..10,279 8,. ~ 8,000 1965 314 45,930
Sept.,' ’19.. 2,870 5 ~ ~ 5,000 43,800
Mar., ’20.. 8,155 6 ~ ~ 6,218 1916 21 43,821
Upwards of 12 months ago this co. took an
option over 3672 acres near Cessnock, and four
bores having proved excellent coal in a seam
about 12ft. thick the option was exercised
and development proceeded with. To March
31 last £20,684 had been spent on this Mill-
field colliery. The other properties at
present worked are the East Greta and the
Stanford-Mertliyr. Considerable time has
been lost at both these collieries during the
past year owing to shipping strikes; this
may account for the poor profits which have
shown up. But considering the value of its
properties the East Greta Co. has all along
been a grievous disappointment. On a
£200,000 capital, of which a mere £18,750
represents transferred profits, the average
div. for the past five years has been only
61 p.c. p.a. Lately a further 50,000 shares
were offered to finance operations at the new
property, but only 37,335 have been applied
for, the 4s. which has been called up on this
new issue together, with calls paid in advance
having brought in £9llO. The outlay on the
Millfield has not only absorbed this addi-
tional capital, but has also cut into liquid
assets, as shown in this comparison :
Mar.,’ls. Mar.,’l9. Mar.,’2o.
Liquid assets .. £19,044 £75,537 £58,223
Liabilities .. .. 34,642 70,190 71,268
Excess liabilities . . £15,598 £13,045
Surplus assets .. —• £5,347
Liabilities nowadays include £60,000 of de-
bentures. Old mining properties have been
written down to £19,622 —less than has
already been spent on the Millfield —and
since this furious writing down of assets has
been done at the expense of profits it hasn’t
been universally approved. No doubt those
shareholders who hang on will benefit by it
by and bye. Of the other fixed assets
£82.091 represents the book value of plant,
while a £149;798 interest is held in the
South Maitland Railways, Ltd., which took
over the East Greta line formerly run by
this co.
* * * *
“Here is a chance to invest in an all-
Australian enterprise, which is only in its
infancy, but when it grows up will be one of
the wealthiest things in the world.’’ This
forecast is made by the promoters of Francis
Birtles’ Film Enterprises, Ltd., a £lOO,OOO
float to “exploit Francis Birtles and his
unique collection of films during 250.000
miles of overlanding in the wilds of Aus-
tralia and to publish his diary.” The co.
also proposes to manufacture, hire and pur-
chase films, acquire agencies and so on. The
vendors ask 10,000 fully-paid £1 shares for
the Birtles films, photos, “curios,” etc., whose ■
value is wholly speculative, and the public is
invited to apply for 45,000 fully-paids and a
like number of contribs. to be paid to ss. for
a start. The promoters, who neither pro-
duce evidence of their special ability to
organise local troupes for the production of
first-class canned drama nor give detailed
estimates of costs, talk of each new film
earning “from £3OO to £BOO in hiring,” and
thereupon express the opinion that “it would
not be unreasonable to anticipate on a very
low basis divs. of at least 30 p.c. p.a.” The
prospectus is not convincing.
Except for the Manly service. Sydney Fer-
ries. Ltd., has now a monopoly of Sydney
Harbor passenger traffic. This week the
Watson’s Bay Co., whose territory was in-


Dalgety $ Company
-Limited -
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram* Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAB VAN,
Managing Director.
Now that winter is approaching, you will find it
necessary to employ some form of heating to drive
out the chill. The electric method of heating is
clean, safe and eeomomical, and its convenience is
easily demonstrated. Why not instal a G.E. Elec-
tric Radiator? We have many types on view in
our showroom, and the prices are moderate. Come
in and see them. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Svdney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [3
* * ♦ #
Engineers and mechanics will find that with G.F.
Malleable Fittings they can do their fittings quicker,
saving time, labor and money. G.F. Malleable Fit-
tings, made from best British iron, are lighter and
superior to wrought fittings—have perfect threads —
geometrically correct —true to sizes, which range from
Jin. to Cin. Over 6000 varieties. Sole Agents, Wm.
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [5
* * # *
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous I-lardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. [1
* * * »
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Extract from letter
received from Borough Echuca Water Trust dated
2nd April, 1919: “Dear Sir, —In answer to yours of
the 27th ult., I beg to inform you that the wood
pipes supplied to this Trust from your firm in the
years 1913-15 have given every satisfaction up to the
present. (Sgd.) Edwin It. Riley, Secretary.” Send for
our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove, N.S.W. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. — Advt.
*■’!■**
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
♦ * * «
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London) ; Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne. — Advt.
# * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby A Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. —Advt.
SWITCHGEARS.
SP —DP—TP, Mounted and Unmounted
Switches and Fuses in Stock. Immediate
Delivery.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 1303, Melbourne.
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
Made and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (a SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 'IN 1858.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne—Sydney—Brisbane.
Metallurgists———Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
vtulcd by the big co. at Nielsen Park a couple
of years ago and which has had a struggle to
make ends meet since costs soared, was
taken over but at what figure has not been
disclosed. Since the Watson’s boats will
presumably take the Nielsen Park traffic,
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., will benefit by reduced
working -exes. The management deferred its
construction programme several years, hop-
ing that costs would come down, but it
cannot hold out any longer, and orders for
three steel boats are being placed.
Port Jackson and Manly S-S. Co., Ltd., is
reconstructing. Dividends for some years
have been at the rate of 134 p.c. p.a., and,
though the co. could have paid more,
to do it would have exposed it to
attack. Therefore the capital must be
increased that more may be divided
without increasing the rate of dividend. At
last balance the books showed the co.’s fine
fleet of steamers to be worth only £110,291;
a competent valuer declares that a ’‘fail-
value” is £356,000. Hence the increase, or
writing-up, of capital is easy. There are
to be two new cos. One, which is to have
the same name as the present co., is to take
over the ferry business ; the other is to do
the co.’s insurance business and take over
certain investments. The new ferry co.
is to be in GOO,OOO shares of £1 each. (The
old was in 281,616 shares paid to 155.)
Shareholders in the present co. get two
shares in this new co. for one in the old.
They will be paid to 155., partly out of fixed
assets, partly out of cash balances. The
insurance co. will be in 300,000 shares—
-150,000 6 p.c. prefs. and 150,000 ordinaries.
For each two shares in the present
co. the shareholder will get one 6 p.c.
pref. share (but not stopping at 6 p.c.) in
the insurance co.; and the ferry co. will
take up enough of the ordinaries to give it
control of the co. The prefs. will carry no
voting powers. They will be fully paid,
partly out of fixed assets and partly out of
cash balances.
* * * #
There is a boom in woollen manufacturing
floats in Victoria, and if the new enterprises
are anything like as successful as the pro-
moters hope them to be the Commonwealth
should soon shake itself free of the importer.
Stawell and Wangaratta are both busy get-
ting in capital for local mills, and Dayles-
ford is now out to establish a £lOO,OOO co.,
of which £75,000 is to be got in to start
with.
Since the embargo on the exportation of
ores was lifted long-suffering producers have
been making frantic efforts to secure better
profits. They have been mostly disappointed,
for the removal of the restrictions came too
late to enable them to catch the boom mar-
kets, while they have also .discovered that
overseas smelting charges have soared and
that high freights are against them, too. So
the producer finds himself in much the same
position as he was before Hughes decided
to make the world’s markets again available
for him ; though one effect of the move has
been to induce the local smelters to become
a little more considerate in the matter of
cash advances on ores delivered. There are
signs, too, that W. M. Hughes has made
the belated discovery that his vaunted metals
“control” is not all he thought it was.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the recent flood of techni-
cal reports advocating molybdenum steel for
motor-car parts, railway-car springs and tool
steel, not to mention its value as a rust-
resistant and the talk of its universal adop-
tion in shipbuilding to save the eternal
chipping and painting of hulls, buyers of
the metal have lately been conspicuous by
their absence, and producers are wondering
who is perpetrating a joke, the ferro-alloy
users or the experts. Anyhow, molybdenite
has dropped in price. Invitations have been
sent to Australia for the supply of a thousand
tons (our yearly production barely runs to
a third of that) at “a reasonable figure,”
say £lOO per ton. But at £5 per unit there
is very little, if anything, in the business.
Only small profits were made out of
molybdenite- or tungsten-mining in the Com-
monwealth at that price during the war—
when, by the way, the British Government
was paying much better prices to American
and Norwegian producers. Nowadays the
British steel manufacturers are patronising
Chinese wolfram ; and if that continues the
Australian metal will inevitably go to the
continent of Europe, which sooner or later
means Germany. The chances of doing
business with the U.S. in an open market
have been shattered, for the imposition of
the long-threatened import duty prevents any
profitable business in that quarter.
Mutooroo (W.A.) is looking better, but
development has not advanced sufficiently
to decide whether the mine is going to yield
any tonange. The felsite bar, which impov-
erished the ore in the main shaft from 75ft.
to 100 ft., and which upset the market, has
gone west out of the north drive at the 100 ft.
level, and the shoot is now solid and encased
in well-defined walls. Values continue good,
though not as high as they were between
50ft. and 75ft. in the shaft, where the shoot
freed itself from the bar a few feet back in
the drive.
* * * *
Herbert J. Daly has written a eulogy on
the White Hope (W.A.) to the local Board
in Adelaide. He quotes expert opinion as
to the free milling nature of the ore and
gives an estimate of the mine’s gold-produc-
ing capacity. According to Kalgoorlie re-
ports he is merely awaiting the striking
of the lode in the crosscuts at the 100 ft.
level before making for London to discuss
Hampton Plains with Lionel Robinson. He
is due back about October, and will probably
bring Lionel Robinson’s partner, Bill Clark,
with him.
Mount Monger (W.A.) may soon require
the services of an undertaker. The much-
boomed chloride schist lode in the Lass
o’ Cowrie has narrowed and passed south
out of the shaft at a depth of about 40ft.
The bottom of the shaft is now in a poor-
looking formation, quite different from the
stuff which has been used to boost the mine,
and which apparently is of short length,
breadth and thickness, and, in all probability,
short-lived. McCahon’s Great Hope, about
which so much newspaper fuss was made
recently, is also sick, and so is nearly every-
thing else on the field.. The only show that
is holding its end up fairly well is the Mon-
ger Proprietary.
At present the shows around Ive’s Find
(W.A.) are merely in the pot-hole and
costeen stage, but several shafts have been
started and an assay plant erected, so it
should not be long before something definite
is known about prospects. Two grab samples
of ferruginous quartz taken from a couple
of costeens on one lease gave a return by
fire assay of just over the oz. and 19dwt.
respectively. The prospectors claim that the
show is worth ounces over -a width of 15ft.,
but claimholders’ deer are mostly rabbits.
Bullfinch (W.A.) has been attracted by a
show near Ive’s Find, in which assays from
two costeens 300 ft. apart ranged from one
to three ounces over a good width. As the
price asked was moderate, a deposit of £l5OO
has been paid for an option.
* * #
Though it was claimed that the stoppage
of the Edna May pumps would make no
difference whatever to Deeps, it now appears
that the latter has been a purchaser of
some of the big show’s pumping plant.
Deeps has been opened up expeditiously at
the 740 ft. level, but the grade of ore exposed
is low and dividends from that source are
doubtful. As a last hope, the old workings
which were burrowed before the underlay of
the Edna May reef was struck are being
explored, but so far without success. Edna
May’s cyanide plant has been acquired to
treat Deeps’ accumulation of sands, and
although there may be a little profit in them,
divs. to anything like the extent officially
prophesied months ago are very doubtful.
Edna May Central attached great import-
ance to the cutting of the Consolidated
Middle lode in its ground, but as far as
opened up the ore body is poor and the out-
look for the co. is depressing. Recent yields
have been fair, but these have been obtained
by taking out pillars and lessening the
already attenuated ore reserves. Central
has had more than its share of ill luck with
mining prospects and water, and capable
management is largely responsible for its
being alive to-day. The end, however, cannot
now be far off.
* * * *
Labor shortage, which has been playing
havoc with gold-production for some time,
is more acute than ever at Kalgoorlie. Gt.
Boulder, which in normal times treated 500
tons a day, is able to handle but a little
more than half that quantity, and further
curtailment seems likely. Other cos. on the
field are in the same predicament. Hamp-
ton Plains, with its surface and shallow
workings, and contract rates equal to £2
a shift, has enticed most of the best men
away from the deep Golden Mile mines.
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) has become inter-
ested in a new line of lode six miles east of
the Celebration, where a little surface gold
can be* got for the length of a lease or two.
Another of Hughes’s chickens has arrived
on the old perch. The miners at Collie
(W.A.) are demanding a rise of 60 per
cent., arguing that if Hughes is entitled to
it, so is the man who hews coal. But the
hewer can’t raid the boss’s cash-box to get
his 60 per cent.
During the half-year to March 31 B. H.
Block 24 derived £25,865 from final settle-
ments, and with the assistance of a Is. div.
from King Island Scheelite (£1972) it
showed a net profit of £15,409. This pro-
vided the prefs.’ div. of £l5OO, and a six-
penny (£5000) was also passed out, leaving
a £61.209 balance in the P. and L. account.
Apart from the mine and plant there were
assets of £72,970, while only £5480 was owirg
to sundry creditors. The co. thus closed its
books with a more or less liquid surplus of
£67,490.
Star Gully, Tingha(N.S.W.), is taking over
Cox’s section of 120 acres, which contains
the western extension of the Brickwood lead
now being operated on by the co. This
addition will bring Star Gully’s holding up
to a sizeable block of 331 acres. Of this
area 163 acres bored are estimated to average
2.71 b. oxide per c. yd., or 5183 tons oxide
in 4J million c. yds. To secure the £lO,OOO
cash for Cox a new issue of 16,000 £1 shares
paid to 18s. is proposed. The co. now has
a register of only 20,000 shares, of which
12,000 are paid to 18s., 4000 are fully paid
and 4000 are in reserve. The £4400 remain-
ing after the new area is purchased is to
go in bringing in water from some high-level
source in the hope of ensuring full-time work
with the nozzles.
* * * *
Drought having held up Kingsgate molyb-
denite (N.S.W.), and practically all the
callable capital having been exhausted, the
Board is considering a reconstruction where-
by the present 10s. shares will become liable
for a further ss. The management reckons
that calls of 2s. per share will put the co.
in a good position to squeeze profits out of
its 54 pipes of ore when the drought breaks.
* * * *
Coal, Ltd., has another shuffle on in Mel-
bourne. The concern is being reconstructed
with a £150,000 capital in 10s. scrip. The old
promoters and syndicaters are to be shorn
of 50,000 of their 105,000 paids so as to
allow of their transfer to the owners of the
St. Vincent property, while two new shares
go to the old contributing shareholders for
every £ of the £22,465 paid by them. This
will leave 150,000 shares to be issued, and
it is avowed that this should provide sufli-
cient cash to develop the Vincent seam. In
the light of past happenings it is akin to
impudence to be told to-day that the co.
was “over-loaded” and that that fact “de-
terred” investors. Failing consent to the
scheme, liquidation seems inevitable. 11
looks neck or nothing, not only with the
St. Vincent project but also with the old
ambitious Appin enterprise.
* * * *
“Briquet”: Because the average Mel-
bourneite still cannot buy brown coal, Mor-
well * s not increasing in popularity. Mines
Minister Barnes disclaims responsibility for
the city’s shortage, and Commissioners Lyle
and Swinburne testify to the same effect.
Yet if Barnes had had any push he would
have committed bis Government to the sup-
ply and the marketing of the fuel at set
depots in railway sidings, where stocks could
be bought at Departmental prices. That is
what Seddon did in Maoriland when his Min-
isters got their State mine going. If Pri-
vate Enterprise bad had half Barnes’s chance
with brown coal it would have long ago
hustled to possess a briqueting plant.
* * * *
Homeward Bound Bon Accord, Yackan-
dandah (Vic.), squeezed out a profit of
£689 for the half-year to April 30, thus
swinging its P. and L. account from debit
into credit once more, though the balance
therein would be quite insignificant had it
not been for the £393 of gold premiums re-
ceived. During the six months the battery
treated 992 tons for 3980 z., 1590 tons sands
gave a further 2170 z., and 560 z. were got
from concentrates furnaced. Manager Bol-
ster is out to test the lode below the adit
level, so a winze is going down 53ft. from
the main crosscut. Sinking has so far dis-
closed the lode to be small and low-grade,
but as it shows signs of widening and im-
proving there is still hope. When the winze
is down about 30ft. Folster will drive under
the good shoot met with higher up.
* * * *
After having spent £BB5O on leases, devel-
opment and plant and proved a copper lode
half a mile long and anything up to Bft.
wide, the Mudlo syndicate, Kilkivan (N.Q.),
is seeking further funds to provide a water
supply and finance development. So a
£50.000 co., in which vendors are to receive
15,000 paid £1 shares and 15,000 contribs.
paid to 55., with 20,000 offered to the public,
is to take over the show. A tunnel is in
560 ft., and driving is claimed to have cut
three lenses. The. Mudlo is already equipped
with a complete little milling and concen-
trating plant, and once water is assured the
management reckons to treat 66 tons ore
weekly, working one shift, for 18 tons 25 p.c
concentrates. On this basis, and not includ-
ing silver values, a profit of about £BOOO per
annum is figured. Since there are over 1000
tons ore at grass the management reckons
that ss. per share will start dividends.
A first conference of Speck mine-managers
was recently held in Burnie. Mining mat-
ters were dealt with in general, but the
industrial aspect was the big problem under
consideration. The matter of the various
State Wages Board decisions, with their
utter confusion of rates, conditions and
hours imposed upon the one industry, is to
be the subject of a protest to the Premier
at an early date. The conference is out
to secure representation for the mining in-
dustry on State industrial tribunals. The
Specks mining to-day is being dictated to
as to rates and conditions by employers and
employees who are only representative of
the secondary industries.
The Speck Geological Department is to
make a detailed investigation into the
quality and quantity of coal available in
the tight little island. Loftus Hills con-
siders Preolenna coal is “a higher gas-pro-
ducing coal than the best in N. S. Wales.”
The Electrolytic Zinc recently acquired the
Mt. Cygnet colliery.
Owing to shipping strikes and general
coal shortage, Speck coal-mines have been
experiencing a good demand for their out-
put, and are showing correspondingly im-
proved profits. Cornwall Coal last half-
year paid two divs. on an output worth
£15,809. The main heading, in 3000 ft., has
been passing through difficult ground, but
is now exposing a fine 6ft. seam.
■U- * * *
Laloki copper (Papua) has entered into
a contract with the Electrolytic Co. under
which the Kembla smelters are to put
through 6000 tons of its ore per annum for
10 years.
* * * *
Birdwood, formerly Blmnberg, in the Mt.
Lofty ranges, near Adelaide, is threatened
with an ochre-mine. A big deposit of yellow
ochres 20ft. wide has been proved to exist
down to 130 ft., and manager ,T. I*. O’Connell
testifies that 70,000 tons of sienna and ochre
are in sight.


w YcwK 1 never mtnd'im.
Trn selling <±>.V* 6k .
y»/o ndct*f ul oOod 5
should see
Ou«" harbor
" Ere ye &.r<z goods m
the /20.000.00Q wortt'
of <2.°^
" Roll up 1 1
Rr.r.r.oll up’’
Any intcres"!
you like.
<s>nd the.
joy o\
Kelp’' n< £>
+h<z c&yse
of Freedom
thrown in,"
'* Buy deb<zr\Tur<z from
pore, blind C over n merbt,
losl its c.red i 1
in the w&rs,
Ca r\t 5> e<z
its "
Ere, elp ,a>. State wots
on its last financial 1 <L‘qS
both of <zm having been
Shot off in the drought
Buy «£> debenture.
or two
ii~i< z. d
Dewd r op.
Wont you buy
rr>y pretty
bonds "
The. Widow " Please buy a Security that 1 mada
myself, One of my husbands is m England trying to get
help from his rich relations and the others have
ho money either •“
ypung Australia*:" Hera.. & big bloka like you caught to get work v .
Big bloke’. “ Work!! Me! Ga>rn . Im a chrome in 1
been suffering from intentional dafioit
for eleven yea.rs [*
THE BARROW-MEN.


ABBOTS
LAGER
STfie dßeor without
~ a Hival
stfadefrom
/Va/fty/fops
ONLY
. I
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear ?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
lias been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.'
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS-
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARITINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNIS
LINSEED
OIL
The verdict of the Melbourne office :
The Prince looks already worn by the fury of
nis official duties. At times there is abject fright
in his eyes, and the twitching hands, reaching up
in sudden apprehension of a misbehaving necktie,
are signs of sensitive youth held down by rigid
royal decorum. Physically he impresses you most
by his thinness, exaggerated to a graceful slimness
in fashionable portraits, but there is all about him
a suggestion of overtraining and underweight. He
is too fine to hope for the physical future of his
grandpa, and he will need solid food and freedom
from ceremony if he wants to go a couple of holes
beyond the present waistbelt of his father. His
voice is his most robust feature. It is manly and
grown-up, full and ringing, and, anointed with a
little of the Oxford bleat, his simple words have
a timbre and a rhythm foreign to the average Aus-
tralian ear. Speaking the other night in the Queen's
Hall he was the clearest talker it had ever heard.
The Queen’s Hall will volley the best voice until
it is smothered in its echoes, but every word came
trim and intelligible to the remotest listener.
Hughes and other orators must have yearned for
the vocal clarity and sincerity that account for
much of Teddy’s personal magic.
The Ross and Keith Smith titles give
quite a new air to the Debrett (or Johns)
of South Aus. Its titles have generally gone
to the old-fashioned William or George or
John in a great majority
t. Morphett, Downer, Bray, Gordon, Cock-
burn, Colton, Duncan, etc.). Josiah Symon,
Lancelot Stirling, Langdon Bonython and
Jenkin Coles
introduced
almost the only
variety. T li e
city knew
Bonython fami-
liarly a s J.L.
till his title
arrived. For
one day even
his own paper
called him ‘"Sir
John.” Then
the edict went
forth that it
called him ”Sir
Langdon,” and
at that it has
remained.
COLONEL
DAVE
YOUNG,
President of the
Speck’s Returned
Soldiers’ Assoc.,
and one of
Tassie’s racing
owners.
Australia lost one of its greatest sons last
sveek when George Ernest Morrison passed
over in England, after a long illness. Bom
at Geelong (Vic.) in 1862, and Scottish-Aus-
tralian on both sides of the house, he
crammed into his 58 years as much adventure
as would suffice for 20 ordinary men. At
-0 he walked from Normanton (Q.) to
Geelong i n 123 days, and before he was 30
he had been an explorer in New Guinea (he
bore the scars of two spear-wounds as sou-
venirs), a medical officer in Spain and
Morocco, and a wanderer in China, Burma
and Siam. At 33 he became Times repre-
sentative at Peking, and in 1900, when the
Boxers besieged the foreign Legations and
were reported to have massacred all hands,
the “Thunderer” commemorated him in an
obituary notice as glowing as it gave to
blowitz. But Morrison lived to continue
his explorations in East Asia (he visited
every Chinese province except Thibet), to
enter Port Arthur in 1905 with Nogi’s
army, and to become in 1912 Political Ad-
viser to the President of the Chinese Re-
public, which post he held to the last. He
had the finest library of books on China in
the world, and, by general agreement, he was
the most distinguished European in East
Asia. Australia lays a spray of wattle on
his grave.
Charles Goode, the Adelaide soft-goods
merchant, had a 93rd birthday last week.
After the strenuous local custom he' did not
let a trifle like that interfere with his attend-
ance at the warehouse.
Either persons with respectable old family
names like Smith, Brown, Jones and Robin-
son are too honest to try to get into Federal
politics or the electors like less common
monikers. Now that Bruce has gone there
is only one Smith amongst the 111 mem-
bers of the
Federal Parlia-
ment, and he
disguises the
fact a s much
as possible.
But when the
new Senators
take their
places there
will be two
Millens, the
Kepat. Min-
ister and J.D.,
late of Bischoff;
and two out of
36 is over the
odds. In the
other place
there are two
Cooks, Joseph
and Robert,
and two Pages,
Jim and Earle.
And Catts and
Gabb and
Lavelle and
Lazzarini and
Makin and
Prowse. But
never a Jones,
Brown or
Robinson.
T. J. RYAN.
M.H.R.
Lieut.-Gov. Irvine sat on the side next
Federal Parliament House as the Royal pro-
cession passed, and Parliamentarians and
official folk were so dazzled by his gold lace
and cocked hat that their attention was
taken off the Princeling. Most of the people
in the procession were an uncomfortable-
looking lot. Irvine in his glory looked as
unhappy as Premier Lawson in his tall tile.
. There is one Australian, at any rate, who
is a whole municipal corporation. S. Aus-
tralia’s idea is to turn into a delightful resi-
dential area the dreary flat lately occupied
by Mitcham A.I.F. camp. Returned soldiers
will mainly be the residents; and, as the
Advances for Homes Act is administered by
the State Bank, McNamara, the head of the
bank, has been appointed to take charge,
and has been formally gazetted a “municipal
corporation” for five years.
Richard Freeborn, Clerk-Assistant and
Sergeant-at-Arms in the S. Aus. Leg. Coun-
cil, was tutor to the Princeling’s mother
when she was a girl of 12. He was master
of a grammar school in the South of Eng-
land when he was selected to tutor Aus-
tralia’s first Governor-General, the late Lord
Hopetoun, during the lad’s vacations from
Eton; and from that job he passed on to
Kensington Palace as tutor to the children
of Princess Mary Adelaide and the Duke
of Teck.
Alex. McDonald, who precipitated the dis-
solution of the Vic. Assembly in 1902, when
Irvine was Premier, by carrying an amend-
ment which created a blank in a Civil Ser-
vants’ Salaries Percentage Deductions Bill,
passed out last week. He was 59 when he
ceased to be a member of Parliament 16
years ago, but he held on to public life as
a Footscray councillor to the last. It was
immediately after the McDonald epi-
sode that Irvine, with the aid of the Kya-
bramapootra, became the autocrat of Vic.;
but he got sick of power in 18 months, and
handed over the sceptre to Bent.
The late Henry Cargill, “The Dipsomaniac,”
once had trouble with the then editor of
Melbourne Punch over some matter he had
been invited to contribute but which the
paper declined to print. When the stuff had
been in the editorial hands for some weeks
Cargill wanted to know why it was not used.
“Well, to tell you the truth, Mr. Cargill,
because it is not good enough.” “My G —d !”
cried The Dipso., “you dare say that, print-
ing the muck you do.” Then, after a pause:
“The misfortune is that there is no means
of proving which is the infernal idiot, you or
I.” “I don’t think any reasonable being
would have the least doubt on that score,”
replied the editor with asperity. “Oh,”
said Cargill, apparently mollified, “it's very
generous of you to say that.” Then he left
the editor thinking hard.
“Don Ak”: Just-dead Colonel Billy
Mailer was a great roarer on parade, but
he suited the Digger because he had no
favorites, and treated officer and gunner
alike. Before a brigade parade at Larkhill
(Eng.) he shouted out several times to an
officer (call him Smith) who pretended not
to hear him, and finally hailed him in a
voice to be heard a mile away, as “Mis-ter
Smith!” "Yes, Mr.
Mailer, what do you want?” was the equally
heated reply, and the parade waited for a
verbal box-on, with odds on Billy. But
Mailer was too old a soldier for that. “Leave
the parade, sir,” he thundered, and specula-
tion was keen as to what would happen
afterwards. Billy liked a man to stand up
to him, and later in the officers’ mess told
the offender, “When two fools on par-
ade lose their tempers one has to go off, and
you couldn’t expect me to. because I’m the
C. 0., so it had to be you.” And there the
matter ended.
Only one white woman is buried on the
Mount of Olives, and she was an Australian
who volunteered for and served with an
English nursing unit —Sister C. Berrie, of
Inverell (N.S.W.).
Prowse, M.H.R. for Swan (W.A.), is a
confessed wowser, but of a rare species. A
lifelong abstainer, he kept a “spot” in the
locker, when Mayor of Perth, for the coun-
cillor who didn’t drink as he did, and
although head of the Orange lodge he was on
good terms, in temporal affairs, anyhow, with
the R.C.’s. There are few Reps, or Sena-
tors who can beat him at billiards, and he
was a rattling good boxer in his tepid youth.
Being a tall, raw-boned, hardy-looking cus-
tomer, he would take some beating even now.
But every man has his weakness, and
Prowse’s is smoking. He is a pipe-fiend.
When awkward interjections are fired at
Hughes his hearing troubles him. But his
deafness vanishes when he can score off the
in|>erjector, as witness his courteous rebuke
to bluff Jim Mathews :
Let me advise the honorable member to retire
into that cave oi silence which he keeps with so
much dignity and so much success. These outbursts
into speech, in which the honorable gentleman is
at once irrelevant, inaccurate, and not at all amus-
ing, only besmirch his fair reputation.
And then the Priminster told the House
a story he had heard in Paris when the
Peace Conference wasn’t sitting. The yarn
was so humorous that Hansard suppressed
it. Only unconscious humor is allowed to
appear in Hansard.
By the death of J. N. Taylor Adelaide has
lost one of its most typical merchants —
Church work and gardening were his two
hobbies. He came from Cornwall with
his brothers and sisters in the early ’fifties
at the invitation of their uncle, Philip Santo,
who _ was at that time Commissioner of
Public Works. After many years in the
drapery trade he became departmental man-
ager for the old firm of Donaldson, Andrews
and Sharland. and started business on his
own account 32 years ago. He was 79 when
his account was closed.
Brigadier-General Wisdom, chairman of
the central Gratuity Board, was M.L.A. for
Claremont (W.A.) when war broke out, and
as commandant at Blackboy camp licked
Harry Murray, Hugo Throssell and several
other subsequent V.C.’s into shape. He
was sent to France in time for Pozieres,
and his work in Picardy and Flanders won
him his present rank. When Coolgardie was
in the boom Wisdom ran a hotel there, and
he is part-proprietor of a fashionable cara-
vanserai at Cottesloe, the W.A. Manly. But
he looks too dapper a johnnie to have been
either a warrior or a bung.
When Masters beat Minister Hine in the
Stratford (M.L.) election, the latter had the
result upset on a technical point. In the second
go the other day Masters beat him again.
This was a fairly definite hint to Bill Mossy
to appoint another Minister, and an ex-
Aussie, George James Anderson, got the job.
Anderson scrambled into the picture at Back
Creek, Bendigo, in 1860. Like so many Aus-
tralasian politicians who have reached the
front rank, he served his time as a comp.
One of the pioneers of trade unionism in
Maoriland, Anderson is the only Minister in
the Mossy Cabinet who is likely to rush to
the ’phone if Labor rings up.
Colonel Dicky Dowse, the Ma State’s new
A.A.G., came to Bananaland from the Cold
Country in the long ago. In those day's he
was a clerk in the Brisbane office of the
A.J.S. Bank and put in his spare time with
the old Volunteer Rifles. Later he became
a permanent adj.-lieut. under the old State
military system and went to Africa as a
captain in the Ist Q.M.1., of wJiich 11. G.
Cliauvel was adjutant. Switched off to the
Commonwealth forces, he has filled various
billets in Bananaland and Victoria, and
served 'with the A.I.F. as A.A.G. and
Q.M.G. of the 4th Division, this last job
bringing him the D.S.O.
South Aus. has been established 83 years,
and the native-born 80-
year-old are beginning
to get into the obitu-
ary notices. J. A.
Bagshaw was born in
a tent under a gum-
tree in 1838. He helped
his father to build up
the Bagshaw Engineer-
ing Works, now a co.
of which he was chair-
man till his death. A
different sort of good
citizen was David
Wylie, born in 1841.
He was a Methodist
parson with a great
fund of memories of
everybody of note in
the remote past. His
one excursion away
from work at home
was a period of 10
years as a missionary
in Fiji, where he saw
all the unrest which
led up to British an-
nexation.
ROBERT GARRAN,
Solicitor-General of
the Commonwealth,
the official who stood
behind Prime Minister
Hughes at the Peace
Conference.
With £lOOO a year salary as a private
member and £4OO a year allowance as Oppo-
sition leader, Frank Tudor, M.11.R., is bet-
ter off than Lawson, the State Premier. The
Premier has much more to do, and out of
the £l4OO allotted to him lie has to pay
his share of the Whip’s screw and other
Cabinet exes.
Vic. has four ex-Premiers living—Pea-
cock, Irvine, Watt and Bowser. N. S
Wales has five—-Waddell, Carruthers, Wade.
McGowen and Holman. But S. Aus. has
the patriarch of them all—Dr. Cockburn,
who gave Fred Holder, afterwards first
Speaker of the Reps., his first Ministerial
job in 1889.
George Turner, the small, bird-like man
who was once Premier of Victoria, used to
have a favorite little pub near his residence
at St. Kilda, to which he would repair some-
times to take refreshment and hear what
the town was saying. One evening he went
to the half-closed door of the parlor and
heard his own name. Then followed: “Tur-
ner, I tell you, ’e ain’t fit fer his position.
Ini a Minister of the Crown ! S’elp me, he’s
just about fit to sweep gutters. I wouldn’t
trust him no further ’n I could see him,
and then I’d expect to be done in the eye.”
The speaker went on to accuse poor Turner
of every crime short of manslaughter, and
when George opened wide the door and stood
within the room, he found his traducer to
be a man who owed a great deal to his
bounty. The man gaped in consternation
for a moment; then he went on hastily:
“But one thing I’ll say fer George Turner —
lie ain’t the man to penalise a bloke for his
political opinions.”
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: I believe I
grow old. I was present at the ceremony
of the swearing-in of Chief Justice Martin
(N.S.W.). There were 28 barristers pre-
sent, three Judges, the Commissioner of
Insolvent Estates, the Master in Equity
and the Prothonotary. Of that formidable
crowd of legal men but one remains, Mr.
G. H. Fitzhardinge. Mathew Henry Stephen
was the last of the others to go. Ex-Judge
Fitzhardinge was “called” in June, 1868;
ex-Justice Stephen in 1850.
Early N. S. Wales had a man they
couldn’t hang, one William Curtin. Sen-
tenced to death for the murder of Joseph
Jackson, at Bringelly, William was strung
up on January 23, 1826, but the rope
slipped, and Bill lived to tell the tale. The
Deputy-Sheriff postponed the attempt to
stretch his neck and the Executive Council
let him off with a “lifer” on Norfolk Island.
There Mr. Curtin was joined a few months
later by John Boyd and Henry Drummond,
who had stolen some sheep and pigs from
the settlement at Moreton Bay and taken to
the bush with them. Finding that there was
“no remarkable atrocity in the conduct of
these two young men,” the humane Council
commuted their death sentence to transpor-
tation to Norfolk Island with hard labor in
chains for life. The authorities in London
later sent out a conditional pardon for all
three.
FLIES IN THE AMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
V\ hen all the world is one wide, eager grin,
A wilderness of sycophantic teeth;
When super-loyalism’s strident din
Shrills right and left, on high, and underneath;
When every eye is riveted on yours
To see you wave and smile and bow and mince,
As you must do, however much it bores,
Do'you not hate your splendid billet, Prince?
When turgid office-holders hem you round
And foist on you their old and pompous friends ;
When odd suburban fashionables bound,
And title-hunters chase their shoddy ends ;
While friendly Youth and Gaiety and Charm—
Things that have called to Youth the Deluge since—
Are held from you by Custom’s iron arm,
Do you not hate your splendid billet, Prince?
When you watch common people living lives
Which, howsoever strenuous, are free;
Watch them, untrammelled, choose their friends and
wives;
Watch them unnoticed pass on land and sea,
While you the irrecoverable years
Must waste in public gyves and never wince,
Are you as near to laughter as to tears?
Do you not hate your splendid billet, Prince?
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


’ ■
”, •»*' € « ~ *.
>
1 1 •
/
• , ■.
A, !
it\ i
M
'
/■ ' T
\., -fo\ S j&L '• v ' A x K
¥%m‘ rn \
> . •
MX
5*3
'
Lv r - ■ 4£gMfcs
Ml
- ■<= ■
• :
*# <^j3*j
’ - ,
■■L !»J*WWHI
■:
A $l
The Studebaker “Light Four
The car of many margins
A CAR that is calculated to meet certain defined conditions will
answer well enough up to the limit of those conditions. But often
a little more —a little something extra —may be asked of the car.
And it is then that the invaluable margins, present in the Studebaker
“Light Four,” manifest their worth.
There is a margin of power in the wonderful
Studebaker engine which equips it for the
sudden, searching demand amid congested
traffic or the strain of a pitiless country road
The engine is remarkably responsive.
There is a margin of comfort in the springing,
appointments and upholstery of the “Light
Four” that makes an otherwise exhausting
journey endurable.
There is a margin of grace and symmetry
quite above the actual need of even a boulevard
car. And there is a margin of economy in main-
tenance that enables you to save a little more
than you were confident of doing at the outset.
»Studebaßer Special Features
The famous Silent L-Head Engine; the newly-designed Gear Box,
swung on a Sub-Chassis amidships; the Double Thermoid Coupling
Forward; the Hotchkiss Drive; the Silent Spiral Bevel Differential;
Scientific Weight Distribution and Spring Suspension; Magneto
Ignition; Leather-trimmed Khaki Hoods; Goodyear Tyres throughout,
and Complete Equipment.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia: 1 77 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Hobart.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch, TimaiU,
Palmerston North, Wanganui.
JOIN THE NATIONAL ROADS ASSOCIATION (N.S.W.).


A MOTORIST’S COAT
BY PEAPES’ OF SYDNEY.
A coat that protects from lashing winds and biting frosts —a
warm, roomy, comfortable coat specially cut to cover the
wearer effectually whilst he is seated —a necessary feature in
a motor-ccat.
Made with deep collar and wide double-breasted fronts, three
outside patch-pockets, windguard cuffs, half-belt on back.
Material: Heavy, serviceable Brown Tweed.
READY TO WEAR, £6/15/-
l’eapes’ pay postage.
Please state height and chest measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- a
taAeltoman
I V % HIGH-CLASS
{specialties
Creams
?r d
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Aerents —
(WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St.. Melbourne.
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDOTS
AGENCIES • ALL * OVER • THE • WORLD
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3% guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A Sydney man whose office is away from
the track of the Royal procession thought
he might fluke a window at about the price
of a theatre trip and splashed 2s. 3d. on an
S. M. Herald advt. The only reply he col-
lected offered him a window “with the ex-
ception of three seats” for 20 guineas! He
drafted this reply :
Dear Madam, —Re window. I see (from the oppo-
site side of the street) that it is, if anything,
narrower than the average window. The three
reserved seats would, of course, be in front of my
party. Besides myself and wife there would be
our seven children and my invalid aunt who suffers
from the delusion that the Prince is her nephew.
She would require to be provided with a raised
couch, a heavy rug, a hot-water bottle and some
port wine and biscuits to sustain her during the
AND WHO SHOULD KNOW BETTER?
A RTIST: “And koto is young Brushe getting
on with his painting?”
MIMI: “Oft, exceptionally well — why, he’s
just finished his first, and he values it
at £1000.
long wait. As I have it and the bamboo pole in
stock, I will agree to provide the Union Jack with
“Welcome from Aunt Jane” on it in white letters.
This will be thrust out of the window when the
lloyal procession is approaching and waved vigor-
ously. My aunt will probably make some attempt
to sing “God Bless the Prince of Wales,” but we
will do our best to restrain her. Four of the chil-
dren have heavy colds and may cough a good deal
over the occupants' of the three reserved seats. But
we will have a liberal supply of eucalyptus and
handkerchiefs for them. Have you any' facilities
for heating baby food? Our little one is only three
months old and becomes fretful if not fed at regular
intervals. My eldest boy takes fits when over-
excited, but I hereby agree to pay one shilling extra
per fit if any are taken during our stay in your
office. Thanking you for your reply and looking
forward to a loyal and happy morning, I am yours
faithfully, .
Now he and Aunt Jane are waiting breath-
lessly for a reply.
* * * *
One of the cards left at the Prince’s
levee at Federal Government House bore
the name of a Benalla resident. On the
other side was the ominous message: “Don’t
forget to order the chest of tea.”
* M *
The case of a wife-slayer:—
A. fine-looking young man is Leslie Clive Worrell,
under sentence of death for the murder of his
second wife at Woronora (N.S.AV.), on February 12.
Tall, broad-shouldered, fair-haired, high-browed
and only 25 —a blond giant with the fea-
tures of a beautv-actor —he would command
attention in any company; but his proceed-
ings are strongly suggestive of bats in the belfry.
Having courted an Australian girl before he left
for Armageddon, lie returned in August with a
record of three years’ excellent war service and an
English bride. The latter dying in November, after
an operation for appendicitis, the widower promptly
resumed his addresses to his Aussie sweetheart and
married her on Boxing Day—two wives in five
weeks! Seven weeks later he took her to Como,
rowed her in a dinghy up the Woronora ltiver,
landed at a secluded spot, lunched on tea and bis-
cuits, and shot her. Then he returned to Sydney
and spent the evening at a “dancing academy.”
The manner of the murder suggests that Worrell
had been reading Poe’s “Mystery of Marie Itoget,”
but he exhibited none of the skill and resource of
Marie’s treacherous lover. • Before the body was
discovered he told a number of preposterous stories
to account for his wife’s disappearance, but in the
box he confessed that these were all lies, the truth,
he asserted, being that in a transport of jealousy
because he married the English girl she had grabbed
the loaded revolver that happened to be among the
picnic things, transferred it from the right hand
to the left, and committed suicide. It didn’t take
the jury long to determine that this was a more
preposterous story than the others. All the same,
the apparent motivelessqcss of the murder (there was
evidence that the couple had lived quite happily
together), considered along with the man’s perfectly
idiotic methods of concealment, his peculiar demeanor
before and after the killing, and his undisputed
statement that he suffered from shell-shock, points
to its being a case for the alienist rather than
the hangman.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Listen to the wisdom of the
poet Culverhouse, otherwise Sydney Yates.
Or not quite a poet, perhaps; rather, a phi-
losopher using verse as his medium of expres-
sion, like Bernard O’Dowd. When his Daisy
imagined, all too truly, that Another had
entangled his affections, lie sent her this
simple, heartfelt protest:—
If your tongue you’d only smother,
There would never be another.
It is the bitter, anguished cry of all the
world’s Sydneys to its Daisys, summed up in
one immortal couplet. And will they give
heed to it? No more than she did!
“Whitehall”: Svdnev Sun reprinted last
week a naif remark by an English visitor to
Berlin:—•
Like night-prowling wolves, men and women haunt
the approaches to the well-known hotels and offer
to conduct strangers to haunts of vice. If one
speaks English, there is a tremendous rush of these
parasites. “Come, Englishman, come,” they call in
English. Americans are also included in this invi-
tation, for both Englishmen and Americans are
respected, but not even the desire to earn marks
will tempt the pests to speak to a Frenchman. The
hatred for the French in Germany passes all belief.
To offer to lead a man to a house of ill-
fame is an odd way of showing him respect.
Of course the milk in the cocoanut is of an
entirely different vintage. The melancholy
truth is that Englishmen and Yanks are
regarded from Montmartre to the Wazzir as
the readiest and most generous patrons of
immoral side-shows; Frenchmen as the
worst. A pimp has no national prejudices
(he would grin at the idea of such weak-
ness), but he greatly fears the sharp blow
over the shins which custom permits the
importuned Parisian to bestow on him. The
Diggers dealt somewhat similarly with the
Cairo “guides,” though their punishment
was severer and was not directed at the
shins.
* * * *
“Hamer”: An odd by-product of industrial
law was the attempt of the Seventh Day
Adventists in Sydney to shift the Sunday
overtime clauses in the carpenters’ award.
Saturday being the Adventists’ Sabbath, they
contend they are penalised by being de-
prived of a sixth working day at ordinary
rates. But an ancient, unrepealed law of
good King Charles 11. prohibits the average
citizen (there are exceptions) from working
at his trade on Sunday; and at its last
appearance in Sydney a carpenter was fined
for working, as a carpenter, in his own
house.
* * * *
“Collins Junior”: Fashionable woman, a
beautiful but hesitating animal of large dis-
course looking before and after, has heard
some facts about herself from a Melbourne
drapery man. Being told by the Extor-
tionate Prices Court that the profits charged
on feminine gear seemed absurd compared
with those charged to men, he said that the
difference was partly the wages of the at-
tendant while the customer went into a
trance over the hat which she had called to
see and had brooded over four times already.
The other part represented so much an hour
ONLY A TEMPORARY MATTER.
WORKMAN (who is putting up some stands for viewing the Prince ): “There are several
ornamental tretes in the wag, sir, and I think they will obstruct the view.”
BOSS: “ Then what do you suggest?”
WORKMAN : “Well, if we could get permission we could cut them down for a couple of
days.”
for attendance during four visits to see how
the frock was getting on ; consultations on
the subject with odd members of the staff
who were called in as reinforcements;
changes of trimming as the lady’s mind
wavered; and final reconstruction of the
garment when at last she resolved that she
had been on the wrong track all the time.
Woman he regarded as essential, unavoidable
and ornamental, but with the same idea of
the value of time as a grandfather tortoise.
After this warning it is hoped that the sex
which goes three together to six shops to
look at 36 hats and finally buys a bread-
crock, Avill get a move on.
* * * *
“Kewpie”: Hughes is getting together a
remarkable collection of one thing and an-
other at his home in Cotham-road, Ivew.
Externally the house is a suburban brick
villa of the type evolved by a dull architect
in league with an unimaginative builder.
But inside the place is a museum of all
kinds of oddities, curiosities and valuables
acquired by the Prime Minister in the course
of his long and erratic career and his varied
wanderings. One room is pretty well
papered with testimonials and addresses
from unions and political labor branches.
Amongst the later spoils are the caskets and
“freedoms” acquired during the Hughes
boom in Britain, and all sorts of minor gifts
from admirers in various parts of the world,
some of them of great value, and a few of
them even beautiful.
* * * *
“Six-and-eight”: The N. S. Wales Full
Court, which seems to find congenial occupa-
tion in tasks of the kind, has discovered a
flaw in the Medical Practitioners Act. It
decided that an unqualified person may prac-
tise medicine and “use titles conveying to all
and sundry that he is a legally qualified
medical man’ 7 provided he does not use M.D.
or any of a few similar titles specifically
mentioned in the Act. The discovery
appears to have surprised the Judges, though
to many not learned in the law it has tor
long been common knowledge. There are
even quacks trading under the style of
“metaphysician” and dozens of people go to
them because they think a metaphysician is
an extra-special physician. They do not
know that metaphysics has no more to do
with medicine than Pegasus has to do with
a horse-radish.
* * * *
“Crabtree”: The names of five men who
went out on one patrol were Mann, Innes,
Pride, May, Paul. The patrol came back
with three casualties—Mann, May, Paul.
And this is dinkum.
* * * *
“The Dotty Scientist”: The fog that
blinded the Renown at Port Phillip Heads
is easily explained. When a number of
great journals have been vaporing for weeks
in a damp place like Melbourne the atmo-
sphere is overloaded and a sudden drop in
the temperature condenses the floating
loyalty. I noted the phenomenon with
pleasure, because it has decided the great
scientific question raised by Oscar Wilde:
Do fogs produce serious people, or do serious
people produce fogs?
“P.”: A recent adventure of the Presi-
dent of Prance calls attention to the import-
ance of duds. Clad only in pyjamas the
head of the Republic fell through a window
of a moving train. The fettler who picked
him up neither recognised him nor believed
his story. In fact. Jaques thought his visi-
tor had escaped from his keepers, and it
required a lot of telegraphing and hot-spur
work to get the sufferer out of his predica-
ment. Now, all the bother hinged on the
simple matter of clothes. Had the President
been in his ordinary rig the fettler would
certainly have recognised him from his
photos. All public characters should there-
fore be occasionally photographed in their
nightgowns. Until this is done no potentate
can feel any confidence in falling out of a
moving train.
(Continued on page IS.)
TO AN OVERWORKED YOUNG MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Knock off smiling, take your boots off,
Bash your collar on the floor;
As the last, lone motor toots off,
Take a drink and ring for more.
They have bobbed and squirmed before you,
Made of you a waxwork show;
Have a rest now, I implore you!
Sip your dfink and let them go.
Lord, how sick of pompous people
And “addresses” you must be!
Queues as long as any steeple,
Limp paws shaking endlessly.
In a sort of daze you view them
Shuffling past you till you wince.
It’s your job. You must go through them
So they’ll boast, “We met th’ Prince!”
Affability, suppression
Of the itch to snub dull fools—
This your part at every session,
Else their blesstd ardor cools.
Matrons fuss and maidens snigger.
Let them make their silly show!
You will meet Australia, Digger,
Any time the bugles blow.
N.S.W.
K.


tf/,
m
U
t
n
a
mnm
Cut out this Coupon and fill in your name
and address hereunder, and by return mail
will he sent catalog illustrating Pianola
Piano, explaining fully its advantages and
easy terms of payment.
Name
Address.
The Happiness to be
IN the making of your home and the realising of your happiest aspirations, must
N foremost the careful election of the m«n. '?i“Tth«
ment Beautiful music helps to make a beautiful homeland adds to it th
attractiveness otherwise conspicuously absent. Music brightens, harmonises,
inspire 1o the daily routine of life . plea»n. change and an ideal
recreation.
Choose as so many have chosen
The PIANOLA PIANO
and you find in it the best the world can give. The evolving of this aphndid m-
ssns sf J&rtsss SK&?=?£££*
Ue° production, so that you have in this Pianola Piano today exclusive benefit, and
pleasures that it alone can give.
It is so easy too to purchase the Pianola
Piano, because of its wonderful value, and
the convenient terms of purchase. You need
not let finance interfere too much with your
decision, nor outlay a large sum at once. A
first payment of £2O to-day will bring to you
immediately the beautiful Pianola Piano and
all its pleasures. Silent Pianos accepted in
part payment.
The “Pianola” is available in the Steinway. Steck,
Aeolian, Stroud and English-made Weber Pianos.
SPECIALLY NOTE:—“PIANOLA” is the registered
trade mark of the Pianola Company designating the
product of this Company only.
WARNING :-The use of the word pial \ ola " P pi'ano
in the promotion or sale of any other Player ria
is misleading and illegal.
The PIANOLA
Company Pty. Ltd.
“jEOLIAN” Registered Trade Mark
“The Centre for the World’s Greatest
Achievements in Musical Instruments”
384 George St., SYDNEY
77H
:J t
. V '
/
m
n
i-i
411111
m
ill
n
mr
KM
s
*
lik
<n »,.
fi
II
3tfi!
«v
n-A* &
=*o '-4
Oi
5\
\z&z


Clerks! Qualify and
Win Promotion.
Don’t wait for promotion. Earn it.
Master our Accountancy Course, win your
Degree, and success is certain. Thousands
of our students doubled and trebled their
salaries this way. You can do the same.
Write or call for a free copy of our book
‘Accountancy”—shows you clearly how to
qualify —the cost, etc. Apply to nearest
address.
SEND FOR
TH/S FREE
BOOK.
»
&
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings
Custom Street.
IN 18S7—FOREMOST EVER SINCE. 1
n
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
riMPii’ a puliw ’ man ' s life ” —Sydney Tele-
graph s version:—
J! e Jr ed th i 6 pol ! ce forcc on November 11 last,
and had never been in trouble before.
* * * ,
“Crabtree” : A. friend recently advertised
the arrival ot a son and heir —the first, lie
lives at Strathfield. The day the announce-
ment appeared a battered-looking postcard
ili :“ ve d from some friends at North Sydney
with the one word “Congratulations.” This
iwrmf CUnou * ly s V dden delivery for the
Lost (Mice, so when the new father met one
of the friends he said so. “Gordelnus
oorri ai T med e the frie^ d —“why, that’s the post-
caid 1 sent you when you were married!”
. * * * *
Bardi ’: The Australian girl can be
jocund enough, where the surf boils and the
rages, but slie has a pronounced
taste for the funereal in Art. My daughter
rJ; line ,,F lve , a birthday party last night, and
< tei Mum had washed up and put on her
best frock she dragged me into the droring-
room to hear the concert. Miss Mills began
it. She recited ‘Mad Kirew; or the Ven-
geance of the Little Yellow Gahd.” Mad
vnew having made his customary damp and*
crimson exit, Miss Shepherd
into^ the passionate lament of Tosti’s “Good-
bai. Miss Shepherd was perfectly thrill-
ing in the tremendous closing diapason:—
Good-bai! Good-bai 1 Good-bai-bai-hai!
Good —b —a —i I
Enthusiastically encored, she spent the next
ten minutes assuring us that her heart lav
buried irrecoverably “in Texas, daoun by the
Kio Gerande, the harrowing consequence
oi loving a lady who had the misfortune to
be trodden to death by stampeding bullocks.
AWFUL!
HIM: "I believe you had a terrible experi-
ence last Sunday?"
HER: Yes, I was rescued from drowning
by another girl."
During these moments of agony Miss Sharp
swung her pigtail petulantly and looked
m-oss; she had evidently planned to destroy
herself. Another musical interlude,
during which Miss Thompson intimated that
the angels had taken Sweet Dorothy May,
and Miss Williams signified her intention of
going some day to a grave far away to weep
over the remains of “This Dear Little Girl of
Mihine.” Then Miss Sharp got her chance
and made the most of it. She gave us that
beautiful story of the highwayman and the
landlord’s daughter. You know how it goes
—it s a pretty little thing:—
ei. s^ e .®th-knife flashed in the moonlight;
she killed him dead in the moonlight;
She stabbed him thrice in the moonlight,
With her baby upon her breast.
Mum and the girls wanted me to stay for
supper, but I said I had promised the Rev.
Lnnght to go and hear him rock it into
Rome. A man needs some relaxation after
a flappers’ concert.
* * * *
Bill o’ Costs” from his Adelaide web:—
Judging by the observations of “0.K.” (B. 6/5/’2O)
Sydney does not yet run a crematorium among its
permanent and reproductive public works. I fancy
South Aus., as usual, led the way in this hygienic
lefoim. Not that S.A. makes much use of its kiln.
Still a citizen who likes to think of restricting the
worm to its legitimate diet, keeping the water supply
untainted and possibly forestalling a conventional
devil, has the chance, and a fair number have availed
themselves of it. One suspects the comparative un-
popularity of the institution to be due to the influence
of Messrs. Mould, Crape and Co., the undertakery
specialists, whose 30-guinea oak and silver “caskets”
have to be replaced by 30-shilling pine shells. The
stupid wastefulness of burying valuable timber and
plate in a hole in the ground is out of place, and
indeed is barred by a system which requires only
materials easily consumed by fire.
Occasionally, however, cremation allows M., C. and
Co. a profitable look-in. Some years ago a resident
of N. S. Wales, possibly in ignorance of the benighted
RIGHT AGAIN.
"I suppose your idea of a man with plenty money is one that has all the money he
Oh, dear no one that has all the money I want."
state of things in Sydney, left directions for the
cremation of his body. Accordingly the firm men-
tioned had to be requisitioned to prepare and send
the body to Adelaide. One innocently supposes them
getting to work by wrapping the defunct up in a
length of old sacking or nailing him down in an
air-tight box; but the specialists had other ideas,
and the executor subsequently received a bill for
embalming, preserving, potting, or whatever the
mysterious process was, which called for £5O! Then,
of course, the local undertaker had to get his bit
for donning his raiments of woe and carting the box
to the crematorium. Also various medical gentlemen
had to be paid for certificates of one sort and
another, and some legal brethren earned a crust by
advising on the legality of the transfer. The cheapest
item was the modest fee (£2 25., I think) for the
services of the crematorium itself.
Incidentally, this cremation was accompanied by
the shortest burial service I have ever heard. The
coffin was taken into the mortuary chapel and laid
on the slab leading to the furnace. I was present
as the family solicitor (I specialise in funerals).
One stipendiary mourner stood on each side of their
burden, and as I dropped a tear into my belltopper
I heard one ghoul say to the other, “Give him a
shove.’’ Shove given accordingly, the furnace doors
yawned and closed—and finis! Then I shook hands
with everyone and went back to other business.
* * * »
Barring that old hereditary title “Mr. ”
the Order of the British Empire is now the
most frequent. It is about as numerous
a . s c *,° 8 ' way of cleaning up
the debris of the war 114 pages of the names
or new civilian members were lately pub-
lished in one whoop. Even then a Countess
who ran a buffet for soldiers at a London
terminus reported that her 84 lady assistants
should have been 0.8.E.'d and some of them
would never smile again. A few were even
sinking into an early tomb. In protest the
returned her own decoration with a
sniil that nearly blew down the Tower of
London.
“Copabella ’: The Vic. Dairy Supervision
Act contains some drastic clauses for the
regulation of dairies, but gross laxity is
allowed so far as milk-vending is concerned.
A license to sell milk can be obtained by
almost any person for
almost any old place in
which a milk-can can be
set down and a rag of
mosquito net thrown
over it. Milk is to be
purchased from shops
reeking with the mixed
odors of vegetables, fruit,
cigarettes, cheese, cook-
ing, barefooted children
and customers; and it
can be kept in the potato-
bin, among the lollies or
under the spare bed in
the room oft: the shop. A
license was granted the
other day in my town for
a papered room lately
vacated by a person who
had died of a contagious
disease! The Law sees
that the fluid is delivered to the door of
the small shop reasonably pure and unsul-
lied, and then does not care what becomes
of it.
* * * *
“General Practitioner”: With Melbourne
University throwing out hints that in the
near future it will be unable to receive any
more students, and Sydney Uni. packed to
the very doors of the dissecting-room with
embryo meds., it comes as a shock to a
believer in Australian brains for Australian
people to find that the final result of the
unfortunate dispute between doctors and
Victorian lodges will be the importation of
25 per cent, of the total number of doctors
required to run the Friendly Societies’ Insti-
tutes. The deputy of the Vic. lodges, who
has returned from his tour of Britain, was
able to bag 10 doctors right off, and saw that
they got safely out to sea. Another 25 have
promised to come as soon as they have fixed
up their affairs, and 15 more would have
come only the time was unpropitious. There
would seem to be no difficulty in getting the
whole number (100) in the near future, and
when they arrive the B.M.A. black list will
have to he extended to an unreasonable
length. The lodges may be backed to put
up a good fight when any attempt is made
to dictate the line of conduct to be pursued
towards their medical employees, and in this
particular case they seem to have scored.
All the same, this state of affairs between
potential patients and doctors will neces-
sarily tend to chill the enthusiasm of those
who were contemplating Medicine as a
m^ ns ° f livelihood ; and Australian science
will suffer in consequence.
“Fag”: The battalion was about to par-
ade before one of Wales’s ldd-brothers. and
the bush-lawyer in C Companv obiected
He said Vd ’ad a bellyful of this Prince
business. It, was a republican, ’e was, an’
e believed, with Shakspeare, that all men
were created equal, an’ Tennyson ’ad given
em the straight griffin when ’e wrote “The
rank is but the dollar-stamp, the man’s
the dmk. for all that.” But most of us felt
that 1 nvate Thumper expressed the con-
sensus of opinion in the battalion. Private
r^ l i m £ er , Said i “’ Ere - y° u ’ ]et the poor
littlo blanker alone. *E can*t ’elp wot J e is. ,J
* * *
‘ W.” on his State’s comings and goings :
The Westralian tabulator has discovered that 369
of the 1432 legitimate first births registered last
year occurred within eight months of the wedding.
Two of the mothers so distinguished were under 17,
four between 40 and 45, and two between 45 and
50. But this form of investigation should be dis-
couraged. It gives Australia’s enemies opportunities
of heaving bricks at her, and they don’t give her a
chance of heaving them back. What is it to do
A FRIENDLY DESCRIPTION.
THE MAN : “What kind, of hair has she got?”
THE MAID: “Unnaturally curly.”
with the statistician when people marry so long
as they do marry and their children are born in
wedlock? Anyhow, only about one in 19 of the
little Westralians born last year arrived ahead of
the time-table, and it is questionable if any country
in the world, except perhaps Ireland, could show a
better record. What is really serious is the decline
in the birthrate from 28 per 1000 in 1915 to 21.4
in 1919; the return of thousands of soldiers in the
early months notwithstanding. Moreover, the
death-rate jumped two per 1000 owing to ’flu.
The most cheerful thing in the whole gloomy mass
of figures is the evidence about the knock-out of
typhoid. It used to kill hundreds per annum, but in
1919 only 18 ’Gropers left by the typhoid route,
and none of them lived in the tropic North —the
healthiest part of the State.
* * * *
“The Mad Hatter” : My friend Robert the
ring-keeper doesn’t believe that the authori-
ties are making a really earnest effort to
suppress two-up. “All they’re after is our
fines,” he says. “If they want to knock the
game out altogether, why don’t they make
coins all double-headers or double-tailers ?”
* * * •
General French formally handed Ypres an
M.C. last week—the decoration which was
bestowed on every back-area staff-officer who
wasn’t senior enough to wangle a D.S.O.
It should have been one of the only two
distinctions that counted after the first year
of warfare—a Victoria Cross or a wooden
one.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Pick up a London paper and
you read in bold type:—
Sufferers from venereal disease are strongly urged
to continue treatment at the hospital where their
treatment has been started The administration of
salvarsan—or 606 —injections against syphilis may
be inadvisable; sufferers are warned, therefore, not
to seek these injections on their own responsibility.
Have patience.... Do not shift from doctor to doctor
oi hospital to hospital. Those who are in doubt
should write to [so-and-so]. This announcement is
issued by the National Council for Combating
Venereal Diseases, a responsible body recognised by
the Government.
The advertisement names Lord Sydenham as
president of the council and Mrs. Gotto as
general secretary. Britain may still be in
need of a drastic C.D. Act, but the Govern-
ment has at least beaten down the old forces
of prudery and hypocrisy which, not so many
years ago, would have made such an advt.
an unthinkable “outrage against public
decency,” or words to that effect. Where is
the Commonwealth’s N.C.C.V.D.?
* * * *
“Widgee”: Mildura’s present boom has
more substance in it than the effervescence
of the ’eighties. In those days, with Par-
liamentarians coming and going like hic-
corks on a shtream, wine flowed like water
and everything considered worth doing was
done between dark and daylight. During
the revels some of the boys killed the only
J.i. the village had. They tied up his
buggy-wheels one night, and the old lad
arrived safely home before daybreak. Next
morning, however, still unobservant of what
bad been done, the unfortunate official came
n-iwi aga * nst one his gateposts and was
killed. It was regarded as a great jest. In
the midst of the boom Lord Ranfurly bought
an estate of 550 acres at Old Mildura and
sent a manager out to run it, for the in-
tended ultimate benefit of the rising Ran-
tury,.Aeneration - The venture cost the
earl £20,000 before he pulled out. Nowa-
days there are few hic-corks, no earls’
estates, not many people with £20,000 to put
into a single venture, and the boomster-Par-
hamentarian is conspicuous by his absence,
the district being represented in the House
of Reps, by that plain, unvarnished son of
the soil, Percy Stewart, who doesn’t even
Perce worth tuppence.
IF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
If you can smile and keep the laughter pealing
When stern Mischance would brim your eyes with
tears,
Yet make your smile a balm for others’ healing, '
/A subtle sympathy, devoid of sneers;
If you esteem a little child’s caressing
A prize more precious than the Princeling’s smile,
The nightly jazz and ostentatious dressing
Luxurious folly, nowise worth your "while;
If you can claim your mate, when every other
Is seeking hers and finding him, too late;
If you can trust your husband with another
And trusting him no other woman hate;
If you can make your conversation glisten
Yet keep it free from gleams of petty spite,
And though to lazy gossip you must listen
\et slay Medusa-ed Scandal in her flight;
If you can gladly do without this autumn
The gown and hat you know were made for you
\nd walk “The Block” in last year’s dyed post-
mortem,
As proud as Birdwood at a grand review;
If you rejoice when trusted Bridget quits you
»And takes your lingerie and leaves you hers.
Concealing such annoyance as befits you
Thanking your lucky stars she left your furs;
If ; v °u can mix with man, yet ne’er proclaim him
. , , st >” a “pest,” a “horrid little brute,”
itesist the feminine desire to blame him
For every little rift within the lute;
H you can draw your cheque and keep within it
When fashions lure and profiteers combine
You re heaven on earth to any man that’s in it
And what is more—l wish that you were mine!
VICTORIA.
O. S. S.


-•s'",
-
•i
m
m.
■•■il
DINNER DANCES! DINNER DANCES!
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday—lo/6
FROM 7 P.M. TO 11.30 P.M.
GALA NlGHTS—Thursday & Saturday—f 1/1/-
FROM 7 P.M. TO 11.30 P.M.
The Balcony is now open to diners.
PARISIAN DINNER,
DRESS OPTIONAL.
7/6.
FROM 6.30 P.M. TO 11.30 P.M.
Watch the Wonderful Dancing, and hear the famous Wentworth
Syncopas Band. The Only Real Jazz Band in Sydney. To avoid
disappointment BOOK TABLES EARLY.
V
*. u
'
isi
* — Mammmrt /ali
,
~ >, .'--\ " - ' ■ ■ * -
ww**
ks\. ira* j
iv* »V 'i
•;_ :.,<•••
,
< I \ <«, *s
- '..
■ ..•<:> ■
? - '-* '■ ■"■■,. v ; ■' ■ . .
■ - r v.. H
THE WENTWORTH CAFE. SYDNEY—TEL. 9931.


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
1]
Jlluminated
Addresses
for /h e
P&INCE
/tlso Invitations
Programs, Menus Et?
Write to fo)
TROffiLSCOOPER%
letterpress , Lithographic &
Offset Printers dj Prtists.
BANK PLACE MELBOURNE
— rtCTOBta
WHO ARE SPECIALISTS IN ARTISTIC
|TEUPHON£<
7588
A Signal Success
*55
Ihe TOP-NOTCH’Scotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
Dear B.,—English, Irish, French, Italians,
Austrians, Americans and Russians supply fearless
horsemen. Perhaps, for war purposes, the Italians
lead. What about the Germans? Tell me of a
first-class German jockey. I never even heard of
one in Australia. I have ridden amateur races
in the Backblocks and ambled many thousand miles
on business, but never met a good German horse-
man in the bush. The German (born at home or
abroad, ’tis all the same) is a very brave man
while he has the advantage of superior weapons.
But it is asking too much of him to fight a man
and an animal at the same time. So he is no
cavalryman. But as a lion-tamer and a horse-
smasher, with the aid of elaborate apparatus, red-
hot irons and the elimination of all serious risk to
himself, your Deutscher may be an artist.—Yours,
Dr Nil.
* * * *
Jim C.”: “Skinny’s” white blackfellow
(B. 13/5/’2O) reminds me of a white black-gin I
saw on the Upper Barwon 25 years ago. She was
a member of the now-almost-extinct Maroo tribe and,
although a full-blooded abo., had a creamy-white
skin. Among the tribe she was known as Warra-
Wirri (white devil), and was almost worshipped.
She was very clean, and was employed as a house-
maid on the station. She never married.
“Wang”: Many are the uses to which the
country dweller puts his hat. To cover his head
is one of the least important of them. As a recep-
tacle to carry things in, from eggs to water, it is
first favorite. Little Billy gathers up the hen-
produce in his; dad, when the tyres threaten to fall
off in the summer-time, carries water in his from
the wayside hole to douche the wheels. In the
orchard Dan gathers the fruit from the highest
branches and drops the catch into his hat. Peter
A BAD MENTAL CASE.
WILLIE: “Met the most peculiar bloke on earth to-day. ’E works in the brewery,
and was goin' off a treat 'cause 'e was locked in over the 'oliday."
belts old Strawberry along with his, and Sandy uses
his to put a shine on his nickel-plated stirrup-irons
when he goes a-courting. Then it comes in handy
to stick on top of a post and fire shots at with a
pea-rifle. Sometimes Bushy uses it as a crumb
brush to sweep the remnants of food oil the table
on to the floor; then he uses it as a wisp to per-
suade the week’s accumulation into the fireplace.
As a sporting utensil it is hard to beat. Rolled
up tight and tied with string, j*ou can bowl googlies
and yorkers with it and belt it for sixers for a week,
and it won’t be much the worse. Fill it with grass
and wrap a piece of binder-twine around it, and
it makes a football. When it is too far gone for
purposes of personal adornment, mother can tack
it on to a piece of board and use it as a knife-
cleaner ; or artistically scissor it and lay it in
the soles of her boots; or plug up a hole in the
wall with it. Cut into strips, it comes in handy,
also, for box-hinges and fasteners. Wads for cart-
ridges are cut from it as well. Old boots are also
in great demand in the wilds. Bushy looks rue-
fully at his No. 10’s worn beyond hope of repair,
and cuts the tops off them for door-fasteners and
harness-patches, and the soles he nails on to the
brake-blocks of his waggon. But boots are not
in it alongside hats for general utility.
* * * *
“Expert Too”: “Sixo” (B. 20/4/’2O) is
quite right about the utility of bees. American
investigations have proved that they are essential
for heavy fruiting or seeding, especially where cross-
fertilisation is necessary. Owing to our favorable
climate and abundant native flora bees are more
numerous than they are in most countries; but while
in their aboriginal state they do much of the fertilis-
ing desired by orchardists, better and more certain
results would follow their introduction in proper
hives in every orchard. There is no better invest-
ment for the country dweller than a few hives
of bees nor a more wholesome sweet than their honey.
Children enjoying a liberal allowance of honey do
not exhibit such a craving for lollies, and generally
escape in later years the diseases consequent upon
too great a consumption of sugar.
* * *
“Toby C.”: In the various discussions
regarding freak foster-mothers I haven’t noticed any-
one respectfully mention the Oodnadatta goat that
reared a piccaninny in the most motherly fashion.
The little abo., born about two years ago, lost its
maternal parent a few days after its arrival. No
capable gin being handy or willing to succor the
youngster, it was promptly handed over to the
goat, under whose devoted care it thrived and grew
into a fine, healthy little nigger. Nanny took a
remarkably keen interest in the kid’s progress,
jealously guarding her charge from the annoyance
of flies, dogs and doting relatives. Critics who
should have known better than criticise their
superiors remarked that the old Oodnadatta nanny
showed more affection for her adopted kid than many
a matron of social tendencies does for her little
dinkum.
* * * *
Notice on a gate in Western N. S. Wales:
“Carriers wanting bolts or nuts can have them for
nothing if they ask at the homestead. Do not take
the bolts out of the gate.” Underneath some annoyed
traveller has scratched: “Blank your blankety
charity!”
“Wandi”: The other day, back o’ Mun-
gindi, the mailcoach capsized, breaking the driver’s
leg and pinning him underneath. There were no
passengers, and he lay for hours in agony before
assistance came. A happening like that explains
why the coach-driver on the long lone roads is
always ready to give a lift to a swagman when he
has no passengers on board. I remember two similar
cases. One was on the Hungerford-Bourke road. The
coach was blown over, and the driver was badly
injured through the vehicle being pulled on top of
him; but the one passenger escaped unhurt. This
person had to fix up the broken pole, then work
the rest of his way to Bourke. The other mishap
occurred on the S.A. side. A stockman from Wil-
gena discovered an overturned coach on Tarcoola
road, with the driver lying alongside with fractured
collar-bone, fractured ribs and other injuries; and
near him a lady passenger with both legs broken.
* * * *
“Baba”: The tidal bore which features
the Fly, Bamu and Turama rivers in Western Papua
is most powerful at the coming of the new moon
and at the full, when it attains a height of from
10 to 12 feet. Stretching right across the river, it
forms a wall of water which rushes on at a mad
pace, creating a loud roar and tearing down trees
that grow on the banks. The Kiwai-speaking peoples
of the lower Fly River estuary, where it has its
birth, call it Ibua. Those living higher up the
river, and who experience the bore' in its full force,
call it Uro, and have a legend that it is caused by
a monster spirit named Muki—of whom they are
much afraid—who lives in the Fly River further
down. At full moon Muki gets very wild and so
causes the great bore.
HE'D BE GLAD TO CHANGE PLACES.
WAITER: “Glad to see you back in ’ arness,
Mr. Collins."
MR. COLLINS (a returned soldier): “I wish
to goodness this steak was!"
“Mulga”: To find north in the bush it
is not necessary to look for ants’ nests as advised
by “Vin Blong” (B. 6/5/’2O). It is a fact well-
known among bushmen that fully 80 per cent, of all
bush timber has a slight lean in a northerly direc-
tion. Let “Vin Blong” try next time he is out on
a cloudy day.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE RHYME OF EDWARD GILPIN BROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A citizen of good repute
In famous Sydney town,
Although he wore a slop-made suit,
Was Edward Gilpin Brown.
He loved his simple children three,
He loved his tender wife;
And when he slew the verdant pea
He ate it with his knife.
This shows exactly where he stood
In social rank and pride—
A man of utter hardihood
Who liked his mutton fried.
He drove a cab, an ancient thing,
Yet persons filled with joy
To Edward Gilpin’s neck would cling
And hail him as “My boy!”
And wealth within their pockets hid
Passed safely to his own,
While night beneath a starry lid
Looked solemn as a stone.
But Edward Gilpin’s heart was high,
His bosom full of zeal;
He grew class-conscious as a fly
That bites a camel’s heel.
And day by day and half the night
He said between his beers
“The worker’s got to make a fight—
Damn all them profiteers!”
He heard of revolution red,
Of breaking State and throne;
And to his ancient horse he said
“We’ll do it on our own.”
THE UNSEEING PHILISTINE.
HEARTY VISITOR (taking morning dip):
“Magnificent sights round these Aus-
tralian beaches of an early morning!"
APPRECIATIVE YOUNG ARTIST: “ Ah-h! But
there's very few see them."
So Edward Gilpin to his steed
Made speeches somewhat wise
Before there rose the fatal need
To arm and mobilise.
And day on day he drank and swore
Great oaths above his drink,
For beer was up, and more and more
The long froth made him think.
One night he drove his lonely prad
Along the clacking street;
His thirst was great, the weather bad,
The rain with fury beat.
Four pounds was all that he had earned;
And soon the dawn would come.
His angry heart for vengeance yearned,
Chock-full of spleen and rum.
Then suddenly he heard a cal],
A great voice loud and clear:
“Up, Brown! The- sword of fate must fall!
Chase down the profiteer!”
A shadow in a mist of rum
Ran on before his eyes—
A shadow, evil, swift and dumb,
That left a smell like lies.
Crack went the whip! The streets fled by.
At Edward Gilpin’s cheer
The ancient cab-horse seemed to fly
Behind that profiteer.
The house-dogs barked, the children screamed,
Upflew the windows all,
Till half a mile of Enmore seemed
One universal bawl.
And from the farthest wards was heard
The rush of hurrying feet.
‘‘There’s something doing,” each averred,
“In Red Geranium-street.”
And “something doing” was the cry—-
A large and splendid hint
That brought the public out to try
How fast its legs would sprint.
God prosper long our noble King,
Our lives and safeties all!
The song of hate that Brown could sing
Was cheered from wall to wall.
“The profiteer! The profiteer!”
And loud the whip-lash fell,
While morning nursed a broken car,
Drum-shattered by the yell.
A wheel and a verandali-post
Got mixed in deadly fray;
A poley cow gave up the ghost
Just at the break of day.
And as the brave ten thousand poured
Through frightened Marrickville,
So loudly the commotion roared
One house fell off the hill!
“The profiteer! The profiteer!”
Uprose the vast appeal,
While Edward Gilpin with his ear
Replaced the broken wheel.
And now the pubs flew open wide
And courage came to some
Who, flagging ns their whiskers dried,
Sought new resolve in rum.
Loud ran the taps, but louder still
Ran on that human flood
That, foaming like a butcher’s bill,
Demanded traitor blood.
“The profiteer ! The profiteer ! ”
Ynother wheel was gone;
But Gilpin used his second ear,
And still the chase went on.
And when the brave horse broke in half,
As some cab-horses will,
Brown gave himself a feed of chaff
And nobly galloped still.
But now Cook’s River rose in flood
Before the yelling crowd ;
Encompassed by a mile of mud
It made a gurgle loud.
The wild cab raging bump on bump,
There rose another cry—
“Ho! See him take the water-jump!”
He spread his ears to fly.
A whirring sound of maddened boots
Was heard upon the wind.
He splashed, he rose; the water’s roots
Entangled half his mind.
Down with a sliding rush he fell,
Yetj high the cab arose.
To Undereliff was borne the yell
“He’s walking on his nose!”
Up, up the insect went once more
And, rocking to and fro,
He caught a little breeze before
The thing had time to go.
“The profiteer! The profiteer!”
Ere half the shout was done
He got the trade-wind in his ear
And melted in the sun!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


Australia’s Foremost Authors
are represented in the
“Bookstall” Scries of Australian Novels.
Ail One Price: 1/3 each (1/4-2 posted).
ALL BOOKSELLERS & BOOKSTALLS, or DIKECT FROM THE PUBLISHERS.
Write for New Complete Catalogue (free) of over 100 novels—
catering for every taste.
BUY AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
“Bookstall” Novels are easily the best value obtainable.
adventure
BULLY HAYES,
By LOUIS BBCKE.
RED MOUNTAIN,
By JACK MCLAREN.
WHITE SAVAGE SIMON,
By BEATRICE GRIMSHAW.
SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,
By A. J. BARRY.
HISTORICAL.:
SALLY: THE TALE OF A CURRENCY LASS,
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,
By ROY BRIDGES.
HUMOR:
LADDIN AND THE BOSS COCKY, A CURATE.IN BOHEMIA,
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD. By NORMAN LINDSAY.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S great series of humorous books.
SPORTING:
THE DOINGS OF DAVE, S pratt
By CON DREW. By AMBROSE PRATI.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S popular sporting novels.
NOVELS OF THE BUSH:
THE CALLING VOICE, BASE BRANDS,
By E. F. CHRISTIE. By H. M. SOMER.
STEELE RUDD’S Famous Selection Stories.
MURDER MYSTERY:
MOUNT MARUNGA MYSTERY,
By HARRISON OWEN.
MYSTERY OF THE BOXING CONTEST,
By BERT JAMES.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY,
y
m
m
m
When other lubricants fail
Texaco Grater Compound
saves the situation.
Crater Compound is a wonder for smoothing out difficult lubricating
problems. Day after day it is proving itself on jobs where proper
lubrication could not previously be obtained.
Crater Compound not only lubricates, but it protects. Its film of pure, rich
lubricant saves wear, saves rust and corrosion. It prevents the action ol
salt- or sea-water, chemical dust, dirt and exposure to all weathers.
Construction gangs should be supplied with Crater Compound, because it
means better service from Steam Shovels. Crater is used to coat the chains,
Sper arm, the drum gearing, the racks, hoist wires, rollers on the turn-
table, and many other places where great pressure, dirt or moisture are
encountered.
When equipment is lying idle, a coating of Crater Compound protects the
parts that are susceptible to rust.
The Engineering Staff of the Texas Company will gladly co-operate with you
in solving difficult lubricating problems. If your regular engineering supply
house cannot supply Crater Compound, write to
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON, or
GEO. P. HARRIS SCARFE & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
TEX'ACO
St
There is a Texaco Lubricant
for every purpose
TEX'ACO
Essential for All Occasions:
a LEVIATHAN NAVY SUIT
in
QUALITY
Material
£717 1-
MADE-TO-MEASURE.
Smartly tailored in guar-
anteed Indigo-dyed Navy
Serge, or Superior ALL-
WOOL Australian Tweeds.
Write for Patterns,
Home Measurement
Chart and Tape.
Important Notice to
Returned Soldiers.
Suit lengths, obtained from the
REPATRIATION DEPARTMEN T.
—The Leviathan Pty. Ltd. are
prepared to cut and tailor in the
smartest Sac Suit style, supply
all trimmings lin- C n o
ings, buttons, etc.
LESS 10 PER CENT.
DISCOUNT.
m,
m
A
■
m
SK
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Pty.
ltd.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
PLEASE NOTE—WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE
SIDED
3/6
EACH
MUM
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/6
EACH
10-inch Double-sided, 3(6 each.
G 7461
The Silver Stars Band
The Silver Stars Band
j Popular Hits, Part 1
( Popular Hits., Part 2
G 7165
1 Popular Hits, Part 3
( Popular Hits, Part 4
Tlie Silver Stars Baud
The Silver Stars Band
G 7466
j (Juan(l Madelon March
( Till We Meet Again, Waltz
The Silver Stars Band
The Silver Stars Band
G 7447
J “H.JI.S. Pinafore” Selections, Part 1
( “H.M.S. Pinafore” Selections, Part 2
Wingate’s Prize Band
Wingate’s Prize Band
G 7448
| “Patience”
j “Patience”
Selections, Part 1
Selections, Part 1
Wingate’s Prize Band
Wingale’s Prize Band
G 7449
j “Monsieur Ueaucaire” Selections, Part 1
| “Monsieur Ueaucaire” Selections, Part 2
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
G 7450
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
f “Kissing Time” Selections., Part 1
| “Kissing Time” Selections, Part 2
G 7451
The Boy” Selections, Part 1
The Boy” Selections, Part 2
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
G 7-167
f Missouri Waltz (Dance Music)
\ Over There., I’oxtrot
Regal Orchestra
Regal ''Orchestra
G 7453
Concertina —Alexander Prince
Concertina —Alexander Prince
f Hoses of Picardy
1 Love's Garden of Roses
G 7453
f The Great Tittle Army
] The Call of the Drum .
Concertina —Alexander Prince
Concertina —Alexander Prince
G 7471
5 List to the Convent Bells (I)uet)
) When the Heart is Young
Annie Rees and Joan Murray
Annie Rees
G 7454
f For You a Rose, For Me—a Memory
1 That Old-Fashioned Mother of Mine .
Eric Randolph, tenor
Eric Randolph, tenor
G 7455
( The Kingdom Within Your Eyes
| Back from the Eand of Yesterday
Eric Randolph, tenor
Eric Randolph, tenor
G 7470
\ Why Didn’t You Tell Me?
] When Dove Peeps in at the Window
vVilliam Thomas, tenor
William Thomas, tenor
G 7456
( When the Sun Goes Down in Dixie
1 Hello, Hello, Baby
Geo. H. Elliott
Geo. H. Elliott
G 7457
] Till We Meet Again
} Mickey
Lucille Benstead, soprano
Lucille Beustead, soprano
G 7458
(
1
You Used to Want Me When I Didn’t
I Call For You
AVant You .. Lucille Benstead, soprano
Lucille Benstead, soprano
G 7459
\ California and You
) That Wonderful Mother of Mine
Lucille Benstead, soprano
Lucille Benstead, soprano
G 7460
[ You’re Making a Miser of Me ....
1 Some Day I’ll Make You Dove Me
Lucille Benstead, soprano
Lucille Benstead, soprano
G 7469
[ A-be My Boy
) Panama
Fred Douglas, baritone
Fred Douglas, baritone
G 7461
( Hush-a-bye, Ma Baby (The Missouri)
] Everything is Peaches Down in Georgia
Fred Douglas, baritone
Fred Douglas, baritone
G 7463
f How 'Ya Gonna Keep
1 Down in Virginia ...
'Em Down on the Farm? Fred Douglas, baritone
Fred Douglas, baritone
G 7468
f ’N Everything
1 Where the Blue-eyed Marys Grow
.. Harry Marlow, baritone
... Fred Douglas, baritone
G 7463
( Parker’s Appeal, Part I.—Wanted for the Army,
j Parker’s Appeal, Part 2. —liefore the Tribunal.
Charles Austin & Company
Charles Austin & Company
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dakinsr House, Eawson Place.
MELBOCBNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q.— -King: and King:, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


as
THE
DURABLE
TPADC WSK
DURABESTOS
The great difficulty In procuring the many kinds of Building Materials
in the various trades and the skilled labor required is a serious
problem for the Home Builder.
DURABESTOS,” the ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS and SLATES,
has solved this problem for building the home with the very least of expert attention.
Any tradesman can erect a DURABESTOS Building. So sturdy, so simple, that it gives the utmost good wear-
year in and year out—that it is indeed “The Durable,” because of its satisfying Reliability and Permanence.
Booklets describing the method of walling and roofing with Durabestos. together with samples, post free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
Manufacturers,
Head Office: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Postal Address: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
Riverma' : According to bush gospel
all cooks are liars. Certainly most cooks babble
and are imaginative. This is easily explained. The
quiet hours of the day, when the station hands are
out on the run, give leisure for reading and reflec-
tion. Attractive yarns and lies that crop up in
print are absorbed, and told to the hands in the
hut after tea. And they linger in the cook’s
memory, and are repeated so often that eventually
he regards them as episodes in his own remote past,
and retails them to the newcomer as such. He
also acquires the habit of inventing adventures, and
“going one better” where bushmen foregather, till
he becomes a master liar, and commands attention,
if not respect.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: An abrupt, bare hill in the
background, brown with the rust of iron, growing
two or three miserable trees like the last, withered
hairs on a bald head. Under the hill, shrinking as
if not wishful of being seen, a small, weather-
beaten skillion house without relief of leaf or
vestige of paint. In the middle distance a little
man wearily grubbing stumps much too big for
him. Over all a fiery-eyed, morning sun, red with
y estei day s debauch. From the house comes a
small, brown woman dragging a small, brown child,
cairying in the other hand a hessian bag containing
her simple belongings. She stands for a moment,
looking at the man. He affects not to notice her.
I m goin’, Dan.” Silence. “I’m goin’, an’ I’m
takin Mord Alice.” The small man works on.
“After them words what you said to me, Dan,
about the bacon, I can’t stay with you no longer.”
The small man expectorates on his hands and con-
tinues his task. “No woman would stay with no
man after them bitter words about the bacon, Dan.”
Dan ostentatiously turns his back. “Well, so long;
I’m leavin’ yeh for ever ’n’ never. I’ll go into
Sandbag to me sister Helen’s. I expect I’ll soon
get a job or somethink. Good-bye fer .the last
time, Dan. Kish yer father, Mord Alice.” The
child goes to the man but is disregarded. She
kisses him on the leg. The woman and the little
girl have walked quite a mile towards the little
tin station before the man looks after them. He
looks a long time; then he says: “Good riddance,
too.” His words lack spirit. That day Dan
Barrow got his own dinner. The house seemed
desolate and dark. It was worse at night, when
Dan was doing his own washing up after tea. As
night wore on the desolation grew worse. Dan
went to bed ; he got up again within half an hour.
He had resolved to write Nan a letter, a real love
letter. He recognised that he had been unreason-
able about the bacon at breakfast. After all, it
was quite true Nan did not make the bacon. It
was no fault of hers if Gilling’s bacon tasted of
fish and kerosene. Dan would write a letter such
as man had never written to woman before, a
letter of love and longing. He had never written
poor Nan a love letter before; he would do so
now. He would put into it all his heart. Dan
found it a harder task than he had expected. He
NOT SO DUMB AT ALL.
WIFEY: “ Leave that cockatoo alone! That
is no way to treat a poor dumb crea-
ture!”
HUBBY: “Dumb, he jiggered! The beggar
called me everything!”
spent two hours over it, and then had to call
in his dim remembrance of a daily paper to his
assistance. When the letter was written, Dan
saddled Trooper, and rode off to Sandbag. He
felt he couldn’t trust the post with the precious
love-letter. It was just breaking day when he
reached the township. He stole up the path,
and slipped the letter under the front door of
Helen’s house, and then he fled like a culprit
and rode home. Dan was grubbing the same stump
when Nan returned that evening, leading Mord
Alice, and carrying her hessian bag. “Did you
mean them kind words, Dan?” Dan looked at her
sheepishly and nodded. “Them’s the kindest words
I ever read, Dan.” “Yes,” said Dan, with a touch
of pride. Dan put his arm round her; they walked
towards their wretched little home together. “I’ll
never forget them kind words you wrote, Dan,” said
Nan. She was weeping. That night Nan smoothed
an inky, dirty piece of paper, and put it carefully
in a safe place at the bottom of her box. It
was her first love-letter. It read: “If N.B. will
return to D.B. all will be forgot and forgive, and
no quaestions arsked. Sined, D. 8.”
“W. Blister”: Out Tibooburra way
(N.S.W.) the drought has reached an acute stage.
Most of those hardy goats of which “Jimmie Panni-
kin” once wrote have given up the struggle, and the
few remaining representatives of the race find great
difficulty in obtaining sufficient moisture to keep
their innards damp. The resourceful animals go to
HAYSEED (WHO HAS HEARD OF THE SCARCITY OF HOUSES AND THE
RAPACITY OF PUBS) GOES TO TOWN TO SEE THE PRINCE.
unbelievable lengths to obtain a little liquid refresh-
ment. The other day old Mr. Barnacle left his
car standing outside the Bagman's Arms whilst he
went in to see the barmaid about a caterpillar. When
he returned ten minutes later he was rather annoyed
to find Mrs. Binkle’s old brown goat sucking the
petrol from the tank through a straw.
A letter of George Augustus Robinson,
the bricklayer who persuaded the remnants of the
Tasmanian abos. to give themselves up and be
deported to the Straits islands, has turned 'up in
Dunedin (M.L.). Its owner, Peter MeCallum, has
sent it to the Mayor of Hobart (Colonel Snowden),
who is passing it on to the Royal Society of Tas-
mania. Writing on August 16, 1832, Robinson
mentions that he took a batch of 23 abos. from the
mainland to Hunter Island without force or vio-
lence ; in fact, he had no one with him but his
“aboriginal attendant” and no weapon of any
kind.
“Albatross”: Black Brother at Rabaul
has begun to interest himself in Australian polities,
coached, no doubt, by the Rabaul Anzacs. During
last Federal elections a Buka boy, evidently inspired
by an enthusiastic Ryanite, gave me his views of
the political situation. “Billyooze, he bad feller too
much,” he said: “he stop along bush all-a-time.”
“No,” I protested, “Billyooze he all right.” “No
savvy,” he replied; “Billyooze he ;
makem too much gammon 1” “What about Joe
Cook?” I asked. “Jokook he all-a-same,” he
answered; “he walk about along nothing all-a-time
plenty!” Ryan, he assured me, “he good feller
too much, all-a-same Jesus Christ. He stop along
big house. Bimeby he catchem Billyooze, and Billy
he go die finis’.”
* * * *
“Tip” : I have seen mention made of many
different varieties of fish-traps used by Black Brother
in the North, but never an account of the one that
I came across in the mouth of the Fly River (New
Guinea). It was made of lawyer vine, conical in
shape, with the thorns turned inwards, the base about
eight inches in diameter and the apex about one
inch. A crab was fastened in the smaller end, and
the trap suspended from a log by a piece of string
made of bark. The fish would force its way into
the trap from the base to secure the crab, and in
going astern the sharp thorns would pierce its skin
and so hold it prisoner until the violent agitation of
the string would notify the fisher that he had a
catch. I myself caught several fish with this kind
of trap, but they were all of the smooth-skin variety.
“Hargo'’: On Jim Crow diggings (Vic.)
in the ’sixties was a Cousin Jack who had struck
it rich and determined to give the missus and the
nippers a bit of a change (’twas said he had a
good lump of insurance on his cottage as well,
but that is by the way). Bill}' Dolittle was a
half-witted pilehard-chewer who earned a crust by
“doin' chars” and the like, and he was engaged to
keep an eye on the premises whilst the family was
away. Whether the owner returned clandestinely
under cover of darkness or not is still a subject
for argument amongst the old identities of Jim
Crow; all they know for certain is that one night
the kipsy was burnt to the ground, and when sub-
sequently he met Billy the owner swore soundly
at him for neglecting his duties. (Billy was igno-
rant of the existence of the insurance policy.)
“When are 'ee goin’ to pay me what ’ee promised
me?” asked caretaker Dolittle. “Pay thee!” roared
the other Cousin .Tack. “After thee's been an’
let the plaace be burned down ’pon me? I’ll gi’
thee a scat in the ear in a minnutl” His anger,
assumed or otherwise, was sufficient to make Billy
beat a quick retreat. But Billy got in a parting
shot. “Well, then,” he said, “I woon’t gi’ ’ee
the key 1”
“Veronal” : During the late ’seventies it was
not unusual to meet a smileless Celestial, armed with
a long bamboo slightly crooked at the end, piloting
a flock of serious, melancholy-visaged turkeys up
Tantawanglo Mountain, between Monaro and the
N. S. Wales South Coast. Gobblers or their brides
which strayed from the narrow but by no means
straight path, were gently recovered by John with
his long bamboo. There were, however, other
turkey-drovers besides Chinamen. One enterprising
Cooma man left that town in the ’seventies with a
flock of 270 turkeys, to be trucked to Sydney from
Goulburn, about 130 miles distant from Cooma. He
arrived all right, but managed to lose 45 out of his
feathered flock on the way. The remaining 225 were
duly trucked. A little turkey-raising is still done
on Monaro, but the solemn birds can no longer be
allowed to run at large on the flats. Ask BrOr Fox
why.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : A few years ago sharks were
captured at Bateman’s Bay (N.S.W.) for their oil,
and the beaches there used to be strewn with car-
cases. Johnny Milton had charge of the boiling-
down; and the smell—well, I’ve seen a dead whale
give a dead shark best in a humming competition.
The oil was readily disposed of for 6s. per gallon,
and the daily output was 200 gallons; but for some
unpublished reason the works, which gave employ-
ment to 20 men, came to a sudden stop.
* * * *
“Sarto”: “Budgerygar” (B. 13/5/’2O)
says Alf Parsons, in West Queensland, put in and
rammed the earth home on 505 posts in one day.
Could a man dig an 18in. hole in the sandiest
country that would hold a post, change tools, stand
the post, ram the earth home and pick up his
shovel again for the next onslaught in three minutes?
Well, if he could, it would mean for the 505 posts
25} hours, which wouldn’t leave much time in the
24 hours for tucker or the walk of about a mile
that would have to take place if the posts were
only 10ft. apart. But perhaps they don’t have a
24-hour day in West Queensland.
* * * *
“Wessel”: According to Dr. Breinl,
Director of the Institute of Tropical Medicine, the
worst devil in North Queensland is booze. “Alcohol,”
he told the Sugar Commission, “does more harm
than all other factors put together, including tro-
pical diseases, and intemperance is on the increase.
I am sure alcohol reduces the resisting power
against disease and considerably shortens life.” But
maybe it’s the quality of the Northern nose-paint
that does the mischief. If it is as bad as some
of the liquor sold in the N.T., no wonder the
doctor lashes out! Which reminds me that Stani-
forth Smith, Acting-Administrator of the Terri-
tory, is a “geographical teetotaller.” He never
touches it in the tropics.
“Werrimee”: Surprise parties were popu-
lar in our neighborhood until the night the oldest
inhabitant was chosen as host. He was given no
hint of the approaching invasion to get himself and
his place in order; the self-invited guests stole up
from the river in the darkness like burglars bent on
attacking the premises. They were laden with
refreshments and instruments
for producing noises, and in-
tended to make a sudden
musical announcement on the
verandah. But the old man
had brought in a young cow
that day, and she was stand-
ing in the yard keeping watch
over her penned offspring.
When her astonished eyes lit
on the silent crowd that
seemed to rise from the
ground, she plunged out with
a snort and scattered the
party and its baskets and its
concertinas about the land-
scape. Their screams and
yells brought the residents to
the rescue with dogs and
clothes-props. But the leader
of the party had lost his tem-
per and gone home, taking his
wife with him. One of the
others had run his eye against
a twig and couldn’t stand the
light; another had cut his
foot on a broken bottle; a
third had lost the bridge of
his violin; one concertina was
punctured, and the other was
lost. As a surprise party it
was a complete success, everybody being surprised,
including the cow.
* * * *
“Wobbegong”: “Ripper Jack,’’ of Swan-
sea, Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.), recently put up a
record. He arid the crew had just finished a haul
for garfish off Catherine Hill Bay, and Ripper was
wading out through the surf to bring the boat in,
when a wobbegong shark 7ft. Cin. long took a snap
at his foot. Ripper turned, smacked it with the
paddle, grabbed it in his arms, hugged it as a fisher-
man does his beer, and tossed it ashore. This
Inspector-of-Fisheries Barclay will verify.
* * * *
“Riverina”: If “Yarrum” takes “Bad
Australian’s” advice and sinks pit-traps along his
boundary fence, for Heaven’s sake let him make sure
that the things are inspected regularly and at reason-
ably-short intervals. Often these traps, though
laboriously constructed, are neglected, and then one
finds the bodies of birds, animals and reptiles that
have died lingering, horrible deaths in the stifling
things. Pit-traps may be ingenious affairs, but
when neglected they are damnable torture-chambers.
* * * *
“Jacey”: On the slopes of Mount Pring,
near Bowen (Q.), there grows a species of dwarf
pine which is seldom higher than 3ft., and more
often towers up in its majesty for just about 2ft.
I put in a couple of days collecting specimens, but
of 23 only one lived. They do not take kindly to
transplantation. The one living is 2ft. 3in. from
tip to toe, and is, to my knowledge, 11 years old.
* * * *
“Bowen”: Although Binghi generally made
his canoes out of bark or the trunk of a tree, he
could have turned out a passable craft if he had
numbered a saw amongst his crude tools. He knew
various methods of bending and straightening timber.
A moist heat generated by burning freshly-gathered
HOW COLUMBUS AND CO. DO IT.
“And what do you do if you lose the com-
pass overhoard?”
“ Why, we just take the hearings of the
nearest pub and navigate by instinet .”
gum-leaves was employed for bending any of his
wooden implements into the required shape. To
maintain and preserve the timber in the position
attained the wood was thickly coated with kangaroo
or crocodile fat.
“Bill Bowyang”: Someone stated in a
recent Bulletin that sardines were plen-
tiful in Torres Strait, and that good
money could be made canning them. I
hate to roll a boulder in the way of
a promising industry, but feel sure that
the fish which looks like the sardine is
really what Binghi calls the maray. It
is a rich, oily fish of the herring family,
and appears annually in immense shoals
in the waters within the Barrier Reef.
These shoals consist of small and im-
mature fish, which are most probably
driven in by larger ones, porpoises, etc.,
by which they are invariably pursued.
Professor McCoy, of Melbourne, states
that small shoals of maray were seen for
the first time on the Victorian coast in
1804. After remaining for a few weeks
they disappeared until 1866, when they
arrived in such countless thousands that
carts were filled with them by simply
dipping them out of the sea with large
baskets. The fish is known also in Port Jackson.


ws
m
s-rj
X
mvM •
V v «
■ *&
(mur,:.
J
m
Vji
.y
■m.
*
WM.
% >
fh
m
w
I#
«§
f/ti'i/
i
i(7////^
m
i
i
4*-
fjasifa
i
ft
vx
m
I
ige
K
,«r>
m
m
I
n
18
»//%•
V
m
/
%
gp
M
V
px
ij r
J
V
/ ✓
r
k --%
RE
v
:_, /
y
1
a.
ii
n
%
%
'M
'u^k*
r
Ur
////
?r
sac*-*
vw
I
1
i
///
•
/V
How Motorists talk when they get hold of something good
Satisfy a motorist by giving him service and value and it's amazing how keen he is on
spreading the news amongst his motoring friends. The remarkable popularity of our
"Railroad" Dunlop Tyre
and the insistent call by garages for more and more “ Railroads ” is largely attributable
to the goodwill this cover has won by its great mileage
average, its dependability,, its economical running. Of
course the quality and wear is built into the tyre—hence the
results. All the same it’s fine to see motorists so appreciative.
We value their patronage and goodwill, and in
return supply them with the finest and best
wearing covers and tubes that brains and money
can devise, and thus the army of “ Dunlop ”
users is ever on the increase—Have you joined
up yet? If not, Dunlop tyre satisfaction and
economy is obtainable at the nearest garage.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES
A\ T D N.Z.
m
TV
aft
<9
m
\


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY-
tm
i
i r. '*
-^L
5
COLO?]
COUCHS
LUNG
TftOUDUy
CROUP
■CHEST
AFFECTIONS
0
©
Butler. Looking boldly and unflinchingly at
life, he shared the artist’s disgust of those
who w r ork in the routine of academic dull-
ness. He loved the Rabelaisian spirit of
riotousness, the hilarious medievalism of
Chesterton and the gloom of the Russian
novelists. He was fascinated with the enigma
ot life; he laughed at its comedy and lived
its tragedy, to the accompaniment of alter-
nate moods of joy and despair. “Gloom,”
he says in the diary, ‘‘l love the word
fVT*?vk'i r ,» et me Wl- ite the word large—
GLOOM. The cry for life and the ecstasy
ot its sensations are not uncommon among
men of frail constitutions. It is the zest
that inspires Kea.ts’s poems and runs through
his letters. It is the same cry sublimated
in the lyrical prose of Barbellion.
It is a rare gymnasium to be sure. But it is
also a blood-spattered abattoir, a theatre of pain,
an anabasis of travail, a Calvary and a Crucifixion.
out therein lies its extraordinary fascination —in
those strange antitheses of comedy and tragedy, joy
and sorrow, beauty and ugliness. It is the stock one
day and the buskin the next. Marriage sheet and
shroud are inextricably interwoven. Like a beautiful
and terrible mistress the world holds me its devoted
slave. She flouts me, but I love her still. She is
cruel, but I still love her. My love for her is a
guilty love—for the voluptuous curves of the Devon-
shire moors, for the bland benignity of the sun
smiling on the just and the unjust alike, for the
sea which washes in a beautiful shell or a corpse
with the same meditative indifference.
And so he loved the full-blooded exuberant
life, about him; the beauty in every aspect
of it —the haunting melody of the “Unfin-
ished Symphony,” the perfect felicity of the
nude body, the microscopic mnrvels of
Nature’s profligate brood, the Turner sun-
sets and Corot landscapes, the silken tex-
ture. of negligent limbs, the fierce heat of
passion, the cold wonder of the falling star;
and all that uncertain, unaccountable fury
of man’s strange heritage which, in a ruddy
terror of birth, has slid down the loins of
Time from the chaos of creation.
REG S. ELLERY.
An Old Book off Magic
I have before me a very ancient tome
dealing with magic, legends and spells. No
history—known history, I mean—attaches to
it, for I bought it at a sale of stolen pro-
perty held in a shop in William-street, Mel-
bourne. When I realised the rarity of my
find I went back to see if any other such
goods were in stock, but the .shop had dis-
in the night. The buildings on
each siue—the Acropolis fish-shop and the
premises of Adam Genesis, pork butcher —
had closed up and filled the space. My book
is a palimpsest written on parchment made
from the skin of some obsolete or possibly
imaginary animal. Underneath the ancient
writing there are faint traces of a still
much older record done in the oldest and
crudest form of the Smithoglyphic language.
This latter appears to be a fragmentary
family record kept through a series of gener-
ations like the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle which
Alfred the Great edited and put all his vic-
tories into. The first straggling entry seems
to be an account of the Creation, written
by an eye-witness. The last, finishing with
a smear and 4 a blot, is a wash-bill dated on
the morning of the Deluge.
Having rubbed out or washed out these
priceless records some person unknown pro-
ceeded to write on the material his book of
magic, legends and spells. The volume is
strangely scented with frankincense, balsam
and myrrh, also ambergris and rose of
Sharon. And underneath these heavy, cloy-
ing fragrances there is a lower reef or
deposit—the faintest possible smell of fish,
or possibly fish-lizard. There is no such per-
fume in the fish-shop of Demetrius Acropolis
-—the one which moved up in the night and
joined itself on to Adam Genesis’s emporium
of pork, thereby blotting out the premises
which I wanted so badly to re-visit. I ex-
pect the particular kind of fish that left
these traces was drowned in the Deluge
along with its owner, the author of the
wash-bill. Possibly it was a pet and he lost
his life trying to save it.
My discovery is copiously but crudely
illustrated by a variety of artists. I can
recognise at least three of them. One was
an ancestor of Hop’s Understudy. A second
was a previous Edward Dyson, expressing
pictorially the same emotions which the
later Dyson uttered with his pen when he
wrote “Fact’ry ’Ands.” The third was the
founder of the school that I would have
belonged to myself if I had been able to
draw anything—which I can’t. There are
illustrated borders which are not exactly
Renaissance but rather Pre-Birth. Some
of the initial letters are illuminated in colors
that are now extinct. Probably they be-
longed to some old type of rainbow that is
extinct also. Dried and squashed and dead
fragments of some sort of mullusc still
adhere to page S7G. On a moderate esti-
mate the animal must have been ISft. in
diameter when alive and its weight was
probably eight tons. It was evidently of a
fierce disposition.
Many wonderful things are contained in
the volume, also many that are useless, un-
believable or incomprehensible. The only
landmark that suggests a date is an allusion
to Solomon —presumably the same old Solo-
mon. He appears, however, not as the
writer of wise sayings that we know, but,
after the manner of Arabian legend, as a
magician, a trafficker with dead or unborn
spirits, a collector of djinns and afreets,
a cabalist and spookist whose life was mys-
tery and his death also. There is no recipe
for raising the Devil such as appeared in all
the magic books of the Middle Ages; in
fact, the Devil isn’t once mentioned. Pos-
sibly he wasn’t born then. But there is a
chapter devoted to the habits of a particu-
larly malignant spectre that was prevalent
in those days and went about a good deal at
night. It was naked, misty, faintly lumi-
nous, and walked on all fours with the hands
and feet turned backwards and with its
hair either dragging on the ground or stand-
ing erect or absent. This apparition was
the ghost of a red-headed woman who had
died in childbirth. Those who met her were
doomed unless at once put under holy water
and kept there for two hours. A recipe fol-
lows for making holy water as it was then
understood. There are 247 ingredients, in-
cluding the roots of stones, bears’ breath and
the noise of cats’ footsteps—Manx cats
especially.
Then the Old Book of Magic deals with
a rare spherical male apparition that was
sometimes as much as Bft. high. It was a
time either of big things or of big imagina-
tions. The visitant had neither hands, feet
nor members of any sort, and was, in fact,
a globe, but without any map of the world
on him. He was naked, as no clothes would
lit him. His features, which were set level
with the surface, were scattered over him
anyhow. He progressed by rolling and was
of no appreciable weight, yet when he rolled
through a house in search of human beings
to eat he generally took the back and front
of the premises with him. The reason why
he was round was that while alive he hadn’t
been square in his dealings. No remedy was
suggested for him save to live on top of a
hill and keep a sharp look out. As it is
mentioned that he could roll up trees this
seems rather futile.
Many stories are told by the unknown
writer about monarchs, prophets and her-
mits who could make themselves invisible,
raise the dead and the wind, bring down
rain, and travel any distance in any time by
merely projecting themselves from here to
there. No explanation is given as to how
they did these things. Some of them lived
as much as 35,000 years. Allusions to
religion are frequent but indefinite. And
interspersed are such practical things as
recipes for making blankets out of cement
and descriptions of a tree-climbing cow that
could be taught to siug.
But amidst much puerility one matter
stands out which seems to be reality, not
legend. Among the lost arts which should
be recovered at any cost in loan money
the people of the date which the writer
neglects to give knew how to compress time.
Such a thing is hinted in the Arabian story
of the Sultan who was bidden by a magician
to dip his head in a tub of water. He
dipped it and lifted it out again. But in
the interval he married, reared and lost a
family, had to hustle many years for a crust
in strange cities, and had found years easier
to come by than crusts. According to the
Old Book of Magic, this mystery developed
from an isolated episode into an everyday
accomplishment. Compression at last reached
such a high state of development that when
a prisoner was sentenced to seven years’
hard labor and a flogging he did the whole
business in the yard attached to the court
inside five minutes and felt just as disgusted
over it as if the period hadn’t been com-
pressed. Of course the work that he might
have done in the time was lost, but the sav-
ing in gaols was wonderful. Bad-tempered
judges had a great time handing out
50- and 100-year sentences, though no
one ever discovered how to compress a life
sentence. Nobody, however long his term,
got a second hearing; there wasn’t time
for a fresh trial inside five minutes. No-
body got his sentence reversed, for, once
started, there was no string attached to
him to pull him back. But scientific research
was still at work, and it was expected that
it might be ultimately possible to pass two
cumulative life sentences on the same offen-
der and make him serve them both, includ-
ing death, burial and decomposition, in the
court-house yard during a single summer
afternoon, and even make him earn a divi-
dend by doing compressed stone-breaking
or oakum-picking during his term.
And here the Old Book of Magic ends
abruptly in the middle of a page with some
incoherent words and a faded bloodstain.
Chemical analysis (I got it done by
Hughes’s Bureau of Science and Industry)
reveals that it is a kind of blood that people
gave up using before historical times. Pos-
sibly some boundless catastrophe struck the
country (wherever it was) where the anony-
mous writer wrote the undated book which
I bought in the shop that was (but isn’t)
next to Mr. Acropolis’s fish emporium. And
possibly that event blew away the Ark of
the Covenant in which was kept the Recipe
for Compressed Time and many other won-
ders, and made a finish of a mixed or tran-
sitional civilisation in which the unreal
began to blend with the real. Possibly the
ghosts, with hands and feet turned back-
wards, of the red-headed women who died
in childbirth joined with the globular
spectres that had neither hands nor feet
and with the compressed prisoners who may
have been too much compressed and ex-
ploded. Maybe compressed time itself blew
up. There is a marginal note in a different
hand about the bosliodon, apparently a myth
or elementary spirit devised by Solomon for
carrying heavy loads. He forgot to leave
the prescription, so it got out of control and
multiplied and developed a habit of pro-
phesying in ponds and swamps at full moon.
Suspicions are entertained about the bosho-
don.
With all their powers the magicians seem
to have been a curiously helpless lot and
hag-ridden by their own inventions.
JAMES EDMOND.
Punch
In any upper or middle-class house in
England (they are still cursed with three
classes there) on any Wednesday morning
the head of the household has one invari-
able line. He hands Punch to his wife
across the breakfast-table, saying, “Nothing
in Punch this week, my dear.” Sadly often
the remark is true. Sometimes it is libel-
lous, or evidence of stupidity in the head
of the household, but rarely. By some
mails I get batches of the paper which have
already passed through the immemorial
London rite; and occasionally my house-
hold (which is cursed by no label of class)
cracks with happy laughter. But not often;
and this is matter for regret. I know the
household’s sense of humor is not at fault;
so I must blame Punch. It is very well
to be called fatuously an institution, but
you should be something else as well; —there
should be evidence of something originally
instituted. The persistently-recurring
absence of this in Punch forces the belief
that the beloved, weather-beaten, bound
volumes of my childhood were in their appro-
priate place in that age of man.
An English institution is hard to kill. One
can imagine the slippered Londoner keeping
up his subscription for the sake of his Wed-
nesday morning line, his Imperial echo of
his father’s and grandfather’s line. London
apparently does not get fed up; all you
have to do is to establish a thing and then
leave it at that. You can stop working,
secure in the certainty that you will go
on forever —and ever.
Naples is not famously less patient than
London; yet Naples has got fed up with
Punch a dozen times in the three or four
centuries of his existence. His last Neapoli-
tan interment took place a quarter of a
century ago. , Naples is luckier than the
rest of the world in this, but there is some
historic justice in the apparent unfairness.
Pulcinella’s birthplace suffered very badly
from him all through his long drawn-out
life. “A country clown, hook-nosed, shrill-
voiced. cowardly, boastful and often stupid,
a master of that art which reduced all life
to the level of the stomach,” Pulcinella was
evolved by the 16th century domestic drama
of Naples. Feeble, vacant and gluttonous,
he has nothing of the tragic distinction of
the French harlequin who came from Hell
via the rolling clouds of -folk-lore to take
his dignified place at last before the Christ-
mas laughter of children. Harlequin is a
personality; Punch is only a childish insti-
tution imposed on Naples for her sins. For
hundreds of years she had to put up with
him. Up to 25 years ago the lead of every
play produced had been Pulcinella —saving,
of course, in his buried intervals. Three
things abide in Naples: the Church, the
cafd and the theatre; superficially, these
are the only things existing there. The
first (with respect) is manifested in a curi-
ous vacancy, a traditional simplicity in the
citizen’s mind ; the second, in a childish
greediness both curious and unattractive;
and the third, in Pulcinella.
In the 10th century large companies df
players, conjurers and mountebanks lived in
Naples, and played there all the year round.
Their stock balloon became the beloved Pul-
cinella. The fat lines were his, the topical
allusions and all the easy laughs; his gener-
ally purely-local plays were kept up to date
from the scoffing Pulcinella point of view.
He was always sure of a good job and a
good part. As time went on and the theatre
moved from the street or a field, first into
a barn and then into a house of its own,
Pulcinella moved with it. The law of sup-
ply and demand made him a better actor
as his audience grew more fastidious; it also
made his plays better. If a promising actor
arose his playing of Pulcinella was the test,
not Hamlet or Shylock. Aniello Castagliola,
a modern Neapolitan writer, says that Don
Salvatore Petito played Pulcinella at the
San Carlino theatre for 30 years until 1852,
retiring then in favor of his son. “His
leave-taking was a singularly moving one.
Masked and fully-dressed, the old actor
appeared for the last time upon the stage,
followed by his son, also in the costume of
Pulcinella but without the mask. Then,
half-blinded by tears and with trembling
hands, Don Salvatore took off the mask
and fixed it upon the forehead of the young
Totonno. Don Salvatore lived to see his
son famous and to grow jealous of him; for
Antonio Petito raised the fame of Pulci-
nella to heights undreamed of before. Within
his limits he reformed the whole character
of the Neapolitan maschera. In him Pulci-
nella lost his attributes of stupidity and vice
and became something approaching an
honest and mirth-provoking citizen. Petito
could don his mask and play the small citi-
zen, the soldier, the banker, the doctor, the
merchant, the lawyer, the commercial tra-
veller, the tragedian and the clown, and yet
be always Pulcinella.”
Somewhere about 1895 Pulcinella disap-
peared finally (for this time) from the
stage, taking with him the sentimentalities,
grossnesses, and often clownish inanities of
his long reign. Part of his luggage was the
parochial stage of Naples. By that time the
city had presumably expiated her sins in
the long purgatory of punch’s screaming
voice, and was free to make her arrange-
ments for some real dramatic work.
Quite so. But all that is an offence
against the mere stage ; London’s institution
has meddled since 1841 with the Press,
which is a serious matter. Occasionally
some London featherweight writes something
so good that even Mr. Punch cannot send
it back, and the British households laugh,
but for the most part it is an institution
and no more.
F.S. —I have dodged the black-and-white
work because that still remains too good to
help my argument.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Died, at Nelson (M.L.), May 1, the
Colonist, a morning paper which has
arrived regularly with the breakfast toast
since 1857. R.l.P.—which in this and simi-
lar cases means Rise in Prices.
“Burdens.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“In a country whose verse-writers are mostly
singers, or, at least, talented whistlers, comparatively
little use has been made of the refrain... .It seems
strange.” —Harrison Owen (It. P. 13/5/’ZO).
Let us load “burdens” on every song,
“Burdens” that murmur in ebb and flow,
Or plod like a camel the whole day long,
Or puff like a launch with a tug in tow.
“Burdens!” Remember the sage advice.
Swinburne has shown how the lines should go.
Here’s one “melodic” and hauntingly nice:
“I am weary as sawdust of Harrison O.!”
Lacking a tail, we must trail our legs,
Adding a charm to our marching row.
Grandmother, thus shall you suck your eggs;
Harrison Owen has told you so!
All that you say should be mentioned thrice—
Or sixteen times if the thought runs slow —■
Here is a “burden,” and cheap at the price:
“I am weary as ashes of Harrison 0.!”
Nice little boys in a Sunday-school seat,
Hear the platitudes come and go!
Trim up your verses and make them neat;
Thinking has hardly a place in the show.
Tack on a “burden”; it’s sound advice
When the stock of your thin conceits runs low.
Here is a sample preserved in ice:
“I’m sick of corned mutton and Harrison O.!”
N.S.W.
C. G. M.


Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY
YOURS FOR A
LONG LIFE.
A Willard Battery with-
Threaded Rubber Insu-
•lation lives a long life.
It is a protection
against little battery
illnesses and re-insula-
tion as well.
Four years’ experi-
ence on many thousand
cars has proven that
this battery gives you
more real value, more
assurance of long-
continued efficiency,
less anticipation of
trouble than any other
you can buy.
It’s a battery that you
ought to know about.
STORAGE
BATTERY
1M
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
*


ri
" '"-.1-“THERE’S
“THERE’S MANY A SLIP
’TWIXT CUP AND LIP.”
w?th e ;«v isks wool
when it reaches market.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
“RED RING”
RABBIT TRAPS
COMPLETE WITH PINS.
Better, lighter, stronger, and very much
cheaper than imported Traps, and, above ail,
are
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
And giving universal satisfaction amongst
Trappers.
If unable to obtain “RED RINGS” from your
Storekeeper, write direct to —Sales Agent:—•
R. N. KIRK,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BS&3
ay
lifi
i+
THE
Brisbane 1 !
GRESHAM,
Leading Hotel.
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR ECONOMY
The money you spend daily on trams,
trains, and other conveyances, the
small items you are tempted to pur-
chase when walking, reckoned up for
the year, will give you some idea of
the economy practised when you decide
to purchase a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings.
With a little attention and care, de-
preciation is practically unknown, and
long service has become one of the
outstanding merits of B.S.A. quality.
It will pay you to purchase a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings in preference to
a so-called cheaper bicycle, because
the reputation of years is upheld in
the quality of each individual fitting
produced.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
PTTTINQ^
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR B.S.A. HANDBOOK FREE-
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. C 0.,. Ltd. I
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
tHAMviAftW
A
Australian
m
m
m
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
(a-*
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BH AS
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS^
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
%
—Y*?
Wi
fu
ft
S
%z
\
£
w
cti
ft
%
X
<3
AC
£
&
%
Je<? thir
forex i\ cl
On <?acll
riurt.
nave the materials and workmanship
that stand the tub-test. No shrink,
stretch or warp. Wearers of THIS! Lh
SHIRTS get everything in quality, refinement
and class that critical taste demands.
Look for the Thistle Label on the next shirt
you buy.
THISTLE SHIRTS and PYJAMAS are sold
by men’s clothing shops the country over.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers—BRISBANE & SYDNEY. AS 26
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
m
m
i
\ N
\vi
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.— (Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. L. S. BOTAL,
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
From all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from Cliatelain’s
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY: 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
[3
s
1
1
fill? I^s
Clean; ]
ILeguia
British
|elf.
Aak for OHQto Ink
g - j—?-■- ~Beat fop all Pens
Business, Robbery, etc.
“II.”: Dunedin dropped a bullock’s-hide
on the Maoriland record-book the other day.
It weighed 931 b., and at 3(h\d. per lb. yielded
£ll 10s. 4d.
* * * *
“►Sixenate”: N.S.W. publicans who are to
be helped to compensation at a time when all
licenses are more or less shaky look upon
the operations of the Licenses Reduction
Board with equanimity, but Sydney city will
suffer. The Act provides that in £,’.
member electorates there are to be foi.
pubs for the first 1000 electors, and three fo»
every 2000 electors after that. Which means
that Botany and Balmain, with only the
needs of their 35,000 electors to supply, will
have as many hotels in proportion as Sydney,
where the pubs cater not only for the resident
population, but for the hundred thousand
citizens who come in daily from other elec-
torates (including Balmain and Botany),
besides the large floating population associ-
ated with every big city and always partial
to pubs.
* * * *
Henry Jones, the joint author with Ach.
Palfreyman of the IXL jam factories,
told a Hobart audience lately that his
co.’s -N.S.W., Vic. and Tas. factories made
two or three times as much jam as all
Britain’s factories put together. It was
lately boasted of a leading British jam mill
that it turned out no less than 100.000 tins
of jam a day. Jones and Co.’s Hobart
factory could manage that before lunch!
Together the factories owned by Henrv
Jones Co-operative Ltd. could turn out
5000 tins of jam a minute. They made half
the jam consumed in Australia, the South
African branch made 90 per cent, of the jam
used in that country, and the co. had lately
built a factory at Oakland, California, giving
16 acres of floor space. The biggest
American factory was now making 300.000
tins of jam a day. but the Jones Co. isn’t
going to rest till it is turning out 100,000
tins a minute.
* * * *
“R.D.8.” from a timber stack:—
“F.N.T.” (B. 13/5/’2O) makes reference to
Borneo white cedar. This is my experience with it.
For 10 years I have worked it on the bench with
the ordinary bench-tools of the joiner and cabinet-
maker, finishing it into doors, tables, office furni-
ture and fitments. Up to now no work has “opened,”
“shifted” or warped. But sometimes white cedar
doors are panelled with inferior three-ply wood,
chosen to match or imitate the white cedar; and
in a damp house the dampness will, of course, attack
the alleged glue. An honestly made all-cedar door
will not shift.
Celery-pine is quoted by “F.N.T.” as a timber
from which unwarpable doors can be made. I
have seen a door made of celery-pine that had a
“cast” in it as bad as ever could be found in a
Tasmanian-oak door. Any honest manufacturer
will tell you that he has never turned out a batch
of 1000 doors without some of them “casting,” no
matter from what timber he manufactured them.
Then again, “F.N.T.” states that Australian
mountain-ash, though harder to work, will live far
longer than U.S.A. red-pine. It does not follow that
because a timber is soft it will not last longer than
a hard variety. Compare the life of the roof of a
house shingled with mountain-ash with a similar
roof shingled with red-pine. A roof of the ash will
last at most six to seven years; that of the red-
pine 50 years and over.
* * * *
“Simon” : Now that a little “easy” money
will be about in the shape of gratuity
bonds, it is time one who knows gave the
Diggers a bit of advice. The easiest-look-
ing way to get a living is to buy a motor-
car and go in for the private hire business.
Work? You couldn’t call it work. Nothing
to do only sit back and accelerate. Thou-
sands pay hundreds and hundreds pay
thousands to be let do it. That’s how it
looks, and when the boys started to come
home and draw deferred pay they felt that
they’d risked too much in the getting of it
to be caught missing a good thing like that.
A while back if you saw someone in a
newly-varnished car coming towards you on
his own you could wager that he wore a
badge in his lapel. The plain fact of
the matter is that a Digger who puts £3OO
or so into such a project has as much over-
capitalised it as if he floated himself into
a company, and has no hope of a return
commensurate with the outlay. When, as
often happens, the price of the ’bus is as
much inflated as its own tyres, and bought
on a hire-purchase agreement that carries
interest which an elephant would sweat
under, the thing becomes the same sort of
disappearing asset as a lollystick in a kid’s
mouth. Apropos of nothing in particular, I
might, mention that the fire insurance on
cars doing hire work is very much higher
than it is on the other sort.
THE HORGANISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Hey, Johnnie, keep yer pick up!
I seen it drop too fast —
Three times in ’arf a minute
The larst time I come past!
An’ ev’ry time yer drops it
It shifts an ounce of earth!
Yer 11 finish up by earnin’
’Bout ’arf of what ye’re worth!
You profiteerin’ robber,
Ye're scabbin’ on yer cobber!
Yer wants ter be a “wage-slave”
An’ earn six quid a week!
Now, listen ter yer uncle
An’ close yer blarsted beak!
It ain’t fer you ter figger
'Ow much yer goin’ ter work.
That’s fer the horganisei's.
You savvy? That’s the lurk!
The “job” you’ve got ter stick up;
So keep yer Manky pick up.
Yer says ye’re workin’ ’arder
By loafin’ on the job!
Well, wot the ’ell do we care?
We’re out for fifteen bob!
Yer kids are short of clothin’?
Yer missus wants an ’at?
Well, wot the blanky blazes
’Ave we ter do with that?
We ain’t no time fer workin’!
We’re goin’ ter win by shirkin’!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


a
l
/
“It’s all the same to me whether you want
a pot repaired, a garden-fork, or half the
parts of a traction-engine or motor-
car —the Oxy-Acetylene Process
makes them strong as new for a
trifle compared to the
cost of new ones!”
‘Tm a great fellow for saving money for householders, farmers, engineers,
motorists, manufacturers, and all who have that wasteful habit of throwing
broken metal articles on the scrap-heap. Those cast-iron parts of lawn-mowers are regular Tartars
for breaking, and you can’t replace them, either. But it’s easy for me to make the broken pieces
one strong section again. Broken pots, pans and garden tools come to me galore—l take pleasure in
demonstrating what a wonderful money-saving process Oxy-Acetylene is for anybody and every-
body. It joins cast and wrought iron, mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium and gunmetal almost as
quick as you can say ‘Jack Robinson.’ Is it any wonder, then, that Oxy-Acetylene is rated as the
greatest metal-worker in the world? If you don’t know the address of your nearest Oxy-Acetylene
Welder—we’ll tell you.” Write for illustrated booklet to
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd.
Foy Street, Balmain, Sydney, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE. Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street. ADELAIDE.—Geo. Wills & Co., Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE. Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street. LAUNCESTON. —Harrison Bros. & Co. Ltd., 20 Patter-
son Street. PERTH. —Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street. FIJI. —Brown & Joske, Suva.
PROSPECTUS
OF
New South Wales Government Loan of £2,000,000.
Rate of Interest, 5£ per cent, per annum.
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR.
Interest Payable, Ist June and Ist December.
First Payment of Interest, Ist December, 1920.
Principal Repayable at Par, in Sydney, Ist June, 1925.
List of Applications Closes, Wednesday, 30th June, 1920.
The Government of New South Wales offers for subscription a loan of £2,000,000, bearing interest at the rate of per
cent, per annum and having a currency of 5 years from Ist June, 1920, a guarantee being given that the interest will be free of both
New South Wales and Federal Income Taxes.
The loan is being raised under the authority of the Act of Parliament No. 27 of 1919, and is for the purpose of providing
funds to enable the Government to make advances, approximating to £2,000,000, to necessitous farmers who are suffering from
the effects of the prevailing disastrous drought, and also for providing funds for the completion of the wheat-silos scheme.
Applications for the loan should be addressed to the Colonial Treasurer, The Treasury, Sydney.
The principal, which must be lodged in full with the application, will be accepted free of exchange, and the loan may be
subscribed for either in the form of Funded Stock or Debentures, at the option of the subscriber.
Subscribers for Funded Stock may have the interest on their Stock i emitted to their Bank accounts in the country or outside
the State free of exchange, but the interest on the Debentures will be payable in Sydney.
Forms of application for the Stock or Debentures may be obtained from the Registrar of Stock, The Treasury, Sydney;
from the Branches of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales throughout the State, and also at all Branches in the State
of the Bank of New South Wales and the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited.
Applications for the Loan may be forwarded through members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
Interest on the Stock will accrue from the date of purchase, but, as a coupon for a full six months’ interest will be attached
to the Debentures, accrued interest, at per cent, per annum, from Ist June to date of purchase, must be added to any applications
for Debentures lodged after that date.
Stock may be purchased in multiples of £lO and Debentures in multiples of £ 100.
Purchase money lodged prior to Ist June, 1920, will be held on deposit at 5| per cent, per annum up to that date.
The Treasury, Sydney,
Bth May, 1920.
JOHN T. LANG,
Colonial Treasurer.


H°LEPRo°F
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of extraordinary
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may be mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUIE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
WALTE R
CAT H R O
PTY. LTD.
0 Yo»k c 't.
SYDNEY.
face Powder
Have you ever used
“Iridesca” the ex-
quisitely soft and truly
invisible Face Powder
—fragrant and dainty
—a powder that clings
to the skin till you
bathe it off.
“Iridesca " Face
Powder is of rare pur-
ity —it benefits the
tenderest skin and
affords ideal protect-
ion against winter
winds and summer’s
glaring days.
In White, also
shades of Natural
and Brunette.
Ask for it at Your
Chemists.
W. 16
a
k
is
An
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
'MSmi W
u'- /
i f 1
m
vxw'm i
vs
tm
vtm) m
m
!> I
ms*.' t &
%
irr
til
m
m.n
> vjjgfe l , t v
I/#/
f,g£%
r»W<O
'prafiriiinnw
w
I
oTJUBC
1-J3STO!
«•«*•**••*
C JOMNSONMOU
• AACIMf Wl% -
mm K?
i£j?HWlof«#4oK *»•«*' L
Here's the
Polish !
TO use Johnson’s
Prepared Wax you
need only a cloth —no
brushes, sprays nor mops of any kind. With very
little rubbing you can produce a lustrous, lasting
polish of great durability.
You can use Johnson’s Prepared Wax over any
finish, whether varnished, French-polished or
oiled, and the result will be a hard, dry, velvety
polish impervious to water, dust, scratches, heel-
marks and finger-prints.
Liquid and Paste
is more than a polish, for it forms a thin protect-
ing film which serves as a wonderful preservative
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
Sprinkled over any floor will immediately give a
perfect dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to supply you with this most
satisfactory polish.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Jack Walters, a young Westralian, reckons
that even if he wasn’t the youngest Dig-
ger he was the most youthful non-com. in
the A.I.F. He was a lance at IT, corporal
at IS, and sergeant at 19.
The N.S.W. Bookstall Co. has published
a 100-page Souvenir of Edward Windsor s
call on the Commonwealth. Numerous
photos depict the Prince from the time he
played at his great-grandma’s knee to his
embarking on his round-the-world roving.
“Gron”: Some of the Tommy cadets in the
artillery schools were lads.of resource. Ihe
horsemaster asked one genius what he would
do if, when riding, he found that his reins
were too long, lie thought hard and then
confided, “I think I’d dismount and move the
saddle further back.” Then, sotto voce, from
a Digger, “Say, choom, why didn’t you tell
him you’d get off and drive?”
Captain Somerset, who was divorced re-
cently in possessos & rcmfirkublG
father and mother, who also found married
life insupportable. Lord Henry Somerset
fled to Italy in a cloud of rumor 30 years
ago, and has stayed there ever since. He
wrote “Hush Me, O Sorrow,’ and many
other drawing-room songs whose gentle
melancholy greatly appealed to late-Y ictonan
taste. Lady Henry took to good works.
She is England’s most formidable temperance
advocate, and is the inspiration of several
benevolent feminine autocrats in the novels
of Mrs. Humphry Ward.
Now we know what a footman is for.
The summary dismissal of two returned-
soldier servants from Brisbane Government
House lias set the Diggers boiling around
Lieut.-Governor Lennon. Both employees
(one is a chauffeur and the other a foot-
man) have handed statutory declarations to
the secretary of the Returned Soldiers’
League. That of the footman records that
it was his duty to collect the eggs from 24
vice-regal hens. He doesn’t say whether he
had to wear full uniform for the job. One
day, he says, the Acting Excellency asked
him sternly what the catch was. When he
answered humbly “Six,” his Ex. ‘roared
like a bull.” This seems wrong. He
should have either crowed or cackled.
The movement to make Saturday a Baby
Killing Day in the Melbourne building trade
—a day when no work is done, so that the
scarcity of poor men’s houses may be in-
creased and poor men’s children may die
faster through overcrowding—ended when a
ballot was taken. To begin with, the bosses
of the movement didn’t see the need to con-
sult the common herd —the mere dumb-driven
cow who was sent into the world to take his
orders from some deitv of the pattern of
Tom Walsh, mostly imported. But as
about 60 per cent, of the men didn’t obey
orders a ballot became necessary to cover the
retreat, and the result being disastrous, the
Saturday strike was declared off, to disguise
the fact that it had never been quite on.
In his younger days a Victorian legislator
with a reputation for “having a cellarful of
it” put up a record for thriftiness. The
“snob” who did the repairs for his household
claimed that the plutocrat of to-day used to
send for repairs more almost-hopeless boots
than any other patron. In those remote
years the M.H.R. kept his figure neat by
attending to a good deal of his own outdoor
work, using up his re-soled back-numbers, in
tramping around his sheepyards and putting
the savings into one more breeding-ewe.
Some people regard this sort of thing as
stinginess, yet the breeding ewes’ great-
great-grandchildren have provided substan-
tial contributions to the nation’s wealth;
and there is a moral for Australia in that.
Hobart’s sassiety dames sustained a rude
shock the other day. A hundred of them
put in a petition to Mayor Snowden asking
him to hire out the City Hall to them on the
night of the Prince’s arrival, in order that
they might invite him to a ball, to which, of
course, they would have the right to ask
whom they liked. As the City Hall is the
only place in the town where any decent-
sized function could be held, and as General
C. B. White, the Commonwealth organiser,
had said that the Prince could visit only one
evening function on the day of his arrival,
and because Hobart’s Mayor happens also to
be an ex-soldier, the proposed “select ball
went out with a bang. The hall will be
used for a public conversazione instead.
“Murkah”: “Broker’s” par. of the invalid
whose last legs held him up for 38 years (B.
6/5/’2O) calls to mind a Queensland case.
At the time of the Palmer rush a Cooktown
property-owner died. His delicate son
arrived coughing from Melbourne to settle his
affairs. Among other things a bakery was
disposed of for £4OO down and £1 per week
while the seller (the son) lived. It looked
a good gamble, as the young man had all
the signs of an early break-up. But one
thing wasn’t allowed for —the infernal
Northern climate. During his month or two
in Cooktown the son noticed a considerable
improvement in his health. He therefore
settled in Cairns —and lived for 45 years.
P.S. —I hate to spoil a good yarn, but the
account for the bakery was marked “Paid
in full” at the end of three years.
“Searchlight” on the seed of dreams: —
I woke in a cold perspiration. I had just wit-
nessed an awful tragedy. The murderer had entered
by the window and stabbed the woman in the bed to
death. I was helpless even to cry out. He slipped
through the window and was gone, and all that
remained was his dreadful handiwork and the
creeping red stain on the carpet. I could hear the
drip-drip-drip of the blood to the floor. That s
where I woke. But was I awake ? I tried to strike
a match with my quivering fingers. The awful
drip-drip continued. I put my hand to my head
and mopped up the moisture. There could be no
doubt I was not asleep. But the gruesome sound
still continued. I reasoned that this must be one
of those instances in which a man witnesses a
crime with his subconscious self. I could remem-
ber the murderer’s face clearly. Where had I seen
it ? Oh, horror, it was the local baker’s! I pictured
the trial, with myself as principal witness. The
drip-drip came again more distinctly than ever. I
leaped out of bed, seized the electric torch and
sent its beams around the room. There in the
corner the mystery stood revealed. A mouse was
kicking in its death-throes in a basin of water. The
swish of its tail caused the blood-dripping sound.
So the baker was innocent and there would be no
trial, after all!


'H
Real
Pearl Necklets
L..A V
WE have in stock a choice range of Pearl Necklets and in
consequence of our long connection with the Pearling
industry at Broome, Thursday Island, and the Persian
Gulf are in a position to offer the very best value obtainable.
We have Small Pearl Necklets at £l5, £2O, £25, £3O to £5O.
In Larger Sizes we can supply Well-Matched Ranges of
Pearls at £75, £lOO, £l5O, £175, £2OO, £250 up to £2,000.
SINGLE PEARLS, for Matching, a Specialty.
Vice-Regal Jewellers
84, 86 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
L.R.W.
4,
0
9
9
3
8
wtacfox
163
We st cl ox— Sleep-Meter
The trimness of Sleep-
Meter’s lines suggests busi-
nesslike attention to duty.
Its artistic design makes it
attractive to the eye. Its
reasonable price makes it
pleasing to the purse.
The trusty way in which
it ticks off minutes and its
punctual habit of sound-
ing its rising call makes it
one of the most desirable
and dependable of medium
priced alarms.
The name Westclox on
the dial is the final as-
surance of quality —the
family name of a line of
good timekeepers.
Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 15/-; America, 10/6;
Jack o’Lantern, 22/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 20/-;
Boyproof 12/6
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
1
/
v
TOOTAL
ifLOTH
The' Gu a ran teed Velvet Fabric
With Tootal Cloth you can enjoy all the
subtle light-and-shade effects of expensive
silk velvet—at moderate cost. It is so rich, soft,
and sound, that it meets every turn of fashion.
See Tootal Cloth, and you will at once
appreciate its deep, non-rubbing colors,
its extreme serviceability, and its economy.
You will also understand why it is worn by
the best-dressed in Britain.
Tootal Cloth CORD is specially recommended
for hard wear. Also for children s clothes as
suggested by the illustration
27 inches wide, in Black,
White, and a wide range of
colors, PLAIN and
CORD. Name always
on selvedge.
ONE OF THE
TOOTAL
GUARANTEED
sr>
genuine TOOTAL CLOTH
name-stamped on selvedge.
Buy none without.
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
Each carries name on selvedge
TARANTULLE (Regd.): The quality Cotton Fabric for Lingerie and Baby-wear.
In three weight*—4o inches wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd) for ladies. Dainty exquisite self-white and
indelible coldr border designs. Lissue label on each
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd ) for men Correct self-white and indelible
color border designs Label on each.
NAMRIT—the Indelible Voile: In printed designs and self-colors. 40 inches wide
TOOTAL SHIRTING—-for all hard-wearing purposes. 32 inches wide. Woven
indelible color stripes.
TOOTAL PIQUE: White and indelible colors 43/44 inches wide
TOBRALCO (Regd.): The Cotton wash-dress Fabric in world-wide use. Self-white
and indelible colors. 27/28 inches wide.
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY, LIMITED MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
All Communications to
MELBOURNE, G.P.0., Box 1035.
9018


CUIURA HEALS
RASH IN PIMPLES
On Face. Skin Was Red
and Irritated.
“My face broke out in a rash which
formed into pimples. They came with
big white heads and the
pimples were scattered.
The skin around them
was a little red and they
used to irritate me when I
perspired.
“I sent for a sample of
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment which afforded relief. I bought
more and after using them about three
months lam healed.” (Signed) H.
J. S. Borland, 137 Thomdon Quay,
Wellington, N. Z., April 10, 1917.
Kerp your skin clear by daily use of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
CRtME EICAYA
It’s a Starved
Skin That Gets
Dry and Rough
that gives you lines and
wrinkles before you
know it.
CREME ELCAYA isthe ideal
treatment for your skin during
the day. Itisnon-greasy—just
a harmless cream that the
hungry skin absorbs.
Follow this simple formula —
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of faoa
powder over all.’*
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, noil' greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skip like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/C-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
201 Clarence Street, Sydney.
he largest selling;
cjualiiy pencil in.
iheyvovld,
r ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
1
fou have always wanted Electric Lights
YOUR home will be brighter and
more cheerful with electric lights-
move comfortable with electric
fans—more convenient with the many
labour saving devices that electric cur-
rent will make available for your use.
Fairbanks-Morse
“F” Electric Light and Power Plant
is a low-speed, horizontal, self-starting,
water-cooled engine unit —simple, eco-
nomical, long-lived—with every part
readily accessible.
It consists of a “Z” kerosene engine, a
ball-bearing dynamo, a switch-board and a
storage battery. The engine may be used
for other work wherever power is needed
on the farm.
See your dealer and learn more
about “F” Electric Light and Power
Plants. Fairbanks-Morse time-proven
quality assures reliability.
DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, Ltd., Sydney.
JAMES WARDI.E & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SOMS, Ltd., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MAI.LOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
ixtx:
p-*—^Zl—pXl
ip-.
ES
□r~
T~JZ
5E
s
E7J
fairbank* Morse&(§
INCORPORATED
MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept., NEW YORK. U. S. A.
London, England. Buenos Aire*, Argentina
Australians on Service Found
That There Is
NO BRANDY LIKE COGNAC BRANDY
and NO COGNAC
BRANDY LIKE
MARTELL’S
YALE-
The Bull Dog Grip
r-
m
.
i
(IWVW
vw:
The bull dog never
loosens his grip until bid-
den to do so by his master.
The world famous Yale
Padlocks, once locked,
never loosen their grip
until released by their in-
dividual keys. Their
tough, bronze construc-
tion will resist sledge-
hammer blows.
Yale Padlocks are in universal
use wherever security is needed.
The knowledge that no one has
ever successfully picked a Yale
Standard Padlock while in actual
use has increased their universal
use for all purposes where secur-
ity is paramount.
Climatic conditions do not affect Yale Stand-
ard Padlocks. They will not rust or corrode
under any circumstances.
‘•Yale,” the trade-mark is plainly stamped
upon Yale Padlocks, Night Latches, Builders’
Locks and Hardware Door Closers, Bank
Locks and Chain Blocks. The trade-mark is
your guarantee of safety and origin.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
Established 1868
New York
U. S. A.
L
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features
1 — Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
G—Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
No less than 58 per cent, of the popula-
tion of Vic. is entitled to vote for the Leg.
Assembly. This disproportion of adults is
alarming—and more alarming still because
there are 33,000 less men than women on the
rolls.
S. Aus. has a deficit to fund and a
£2,000,000 p.n. falling due, but Harwell,
the new Premier, talks hopefully of building
more permanent and reproductive works.
Apparently he intends paying for them with
the £2,000,000 p.n.
A Yankee aviator reckons on getting up
50,000 ft. when his new machine is ready, and
at that height he reckons that the pull of
gravitation w T ill be so diminished that amaz-
ing speeds will be possible. Also at that
elevation he may discover the high cost of
living. It should be somewhere up there.
lan Hamilton was unlucky to get nothing
more than the sack after the Gallipoli fiasco.
The battle of Festubert destroyed the Asquith
Ministry, and ruined the prestige of Kitch-
ener, who had all along denied the shell-
shortage which every soldier in France knew
about. So Kitchener was almost simul-
taneously superseded by Robertson and in-
vested with a K.G., which is the highest
order in the gift of the Crown. In a simi-
lar spirit most of the A.I.F. failures of high
rank got knighthoods, or billets in England,
or both.
Australia’s bill for imported paper of one
sort and another was nearly £5,000,000 last
last year, and the price has been going up
ever since. As was learnedly pointed out
the other day in Sydney Teleghapii, about
half this could be saved if Australia had the
habit of selling the bulk of its waste paper
to mills scattered over the country so that
it might be made up again, instead of burn-
ing it or using it to disfigure the streets
with. Unhappily (and the Telegraph
ought to know why) mills aren’t scattered
over the country to furnish employment, so
the community pays through the nose as
usual. In fact, its nose is almost worn out
with paying through it.
Broken Hill, always sensitive on matters
of social etiquette, has been assessing the
damage done to a girl by exclusion from a
public entertainment. The occasion was the
“euchre-and-dance” of the West Football
Club, and the offender a doorkeeper of
about 17, who explained that he was acting
by order of the committee. Some ladies thus
aggrieved would have hovered about the
scene and shown their disapproval by hurl-
ing offensive substances through a window
when the revelry was at its height; this one
took the more dignified course of consulting
her solicitor. She valued her anguish of
mind and loss of social prestige at £10; the
Court said they were worth just half that.
“Delhi” : One of the last to return from
the war is Captain Neill, who served in an
English regiment in the Boer affair. His
grandfather was General Neill, of the East
India Co.’s service, who just 70 years ago
stopped the Mutiny by the simple expedient
of tying the sepoys in revolt to the mouth
of the field-guns and blowing them away.
This raised a great outcry in London, but
the dour Scots of General Neill’s native Ayr
put up a monument to him It is just the
same to-day about the General who ordered
the troops at Amritsar to fire with ball
cartridges on the natives. When the ruled
subjects rise the rulers had better shoot
first—if they mean to have as little shooting
as possible.
“In 13 years, arising out of my public
duties, I have been served with six writs
for libel and have had seven prosecutions
under the War Precautions Act.” Thus
Catts, M.H.IL, explaining why an ungrate-
ful country should pay him another £4OO
a year. And then he confided to his fellow-
lieps. that if he hadn’t done outside work
on Sundays and holidays “I should, with
the little trouble that came upon me later,
have been bankrupt and unable to retain
my seat in Parliament.” But during the
same 13 years about 73 other Reps, got no
writs for libel, were never prosecuted under
the War Precautions Act and steered clear
of “little troubles”—the sort in which costs
smite the victim from every angle. A Com-
monwealth which owes £345,000,000 can’t
afford to finance Catts’s passion for liti-
gation.
“The Deacon”: Apropos the prevalence
of “guns” in the movies that call themselves
Australian, my experience tallies with
“Copabella’s” (B. 13/5/’2O). I was a boarder
at the Shadow of Death Hotel in Sapphire
Town (Q.), which sheltered souls from
all the Lost Legions. The only mob to carry
firearms were the German gem-buyers, and
the only time I heard a gun explode amongst
that mixed lot was when a German naval
deserter painted the ceiling with his brains
rather than face the horrors of a German
prison. Yet the crowd were the toughest—
colored and parti-colored as they were—that
ever drew r breath. North of Auckland, among
the Austrian gumdiggers, the same con-
ditions prevailed. The illiterate, obscene
and unwashed Austrian and his pal, the
Pole, were no children to handle; still the
übiquitous Australian was the goods with his
strong right arm. Finally, during one of
the deadliest strikes I ever saw—-that of the
Waihi (M.L.) miners a few years ago—the
only guns I saw were on the hips of the
Hops.
Upholding the Victorian judgment of
Mann, J., the High Court has thrown out
a claim by Horne and Palmer, stock and
station agents, of Terang, for commission
on the sale of an estate to the Closer Settle-
ment Board for soldier settlement, on the
ground that it was against public policy
for a member of Parliament to act as an
agent and get the highest possible price for a
client. Deany, M.L. A., the Warrnambool
representative of Horne and Palmer, it was
shown, conducted the negotiations, and was
entitled to share in the commission. “It
was immaterial whether the price was fair
or not, as Deany’s private interests and his
public duty as a watchdog for the public
conflicted.” So far only the politician has
been scarified; but the vendor has no right
to wear feathers in his cap either. Either
he expected these people to do a fair thing,
in which case he should be prepared to pay
for it, or he expected them to do more than
a fair thing—and that should mean some
other sort of payment.


Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
vJ
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just *s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co.j 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
im
i
n
0
/
%
n v:
1
m
tm
m
i
o
m
li vmatam Pictures
by—
Chamberlain's
Tablets -
A coated tongue What it means
A coated tongue means bad
breath—bad taste in the mouth—
languor and debility, which are all
signs that the liver is out of order.
The liver is an organ secondary
in importance only to the heart.
When we are constipated we
manufacture within our bodies
poisons which are as deadly as a
snakes venom.
The liver acts as a guard over our
well-being, shifting out these
poisons from the general circulation.
A blockade in the intestines piles
a heavy burden upon the liver.
When the intestines are clogged
up the blood becomes poisoned
and the system becomes loaded
with toxic waste.
It is then that we suffer from
headache coated tongue bad
taste nausea flatulence acid
dyspepsia languor yellow skin
or eyes.
At such times you need a pleasant,
reliable laxative, such as
zm.
n>
■ n
O Hived
70
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
:his disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
ana when this remedy is at hand all danger
may be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
safeguard your health
ptJ.Collis Broom's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co Ids, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Of all Chemists. Prices iti liny land, 1/3, Si-, 5/
Made in England.
Velvety Shaves with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
30/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
HOTEL
METROPDLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Consult Us!
On Water Supply
and Irrigation.
We have a Large 8 Yaried Stock of Pumping Machinery.
Some Specialities of our own make are:—
Hercules Windmills. 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping
Plants.
Hercules Oil Engines. 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Deei>-
Well Pump Cylinders.
Syphon Windmill Pumps. Pump Bods; Drive Well
Points.
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, and Water-raising
Appliances of all kinds.
We have also good stocks of Ball Valves, Foot Valves, Water Fittings; “National” Pipe,
Black, Galvanised and Steam; “National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
Standard).
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street
( pass* ls Bight, Brisbane
near by). Works: Yeerongpilly
/-/■-) l V s
t 3


A. Saunders’ Inkstand, pure Silver-plated, hand burnished,
Cut Glass Bottle, 25/*
A. Saunders’ Beal Ebony
Hair Brush, solid Silver
Mounts, finest-quality
Bristles, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Stud Box. pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, hand engraved,
Ribbon design, Silk-lined, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Shaving Cup, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand en-
graved and burnished, 30/-
'
■
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Collar Box, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, beautifully burnished and engraved,
Silk-lined, 80/ -
TOILET GIFTS.
EZ
IlMi
ii
as
3
&
w
"VC
snttoVJ
<
s.*^
ZE&
WT»WJ—I fcgaig
__ IJ 9 "W^PWWw*.
if>=»*
ti«"
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Toilet Brush Set, comprising Mirror,
Brush and Comb, hand burnished and engraved, in Silk-lined
Ca-se. £7/10/-
7/
m
i
ii
ii
3*
I
MUM
i?'-> r\
A. Saunders’ Glove Bor. pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
engraved “Ribbon” design. Silk-lined, £5.
richly
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street "ME* Sydney
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, A 1 Quality, pure Silver-
plated, highly burnished, Silk-lined, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, hand engraved,
Ribbon design, pure Silver-plated Lid,
Crystal Glass Jar, 13/6.
A. Saunders’ Head Salts
Bottles, solid' Silver
Mounts, Cut Glass Bottles,
7/0, 10/0, 15/0.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Hair Brush, ftnest-quality
Bristles, Empire Design,
* 42/-
A.' Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, Sterling
Silver Shields, finest-quality Bristles, in solid
Leather Case. 40/-
uujiuio
m
EST
Dt
SSJa
,/J
as/
w.i,
BgS>
Si^Es
MIS
V*
/
f?.
%
■ ,i--- ; H
“You want the Best?
Certainly - -
NESTLE’S! ”
Your grocer knows he is recommending the best
when he recommends you Nestle’s Milk, and only
because it is the best, is it good enough for you.
USE NESTLE 9 S MILK FOR COOKING.
Be a Better cook ! Try the new way of cooking by using Nestle’s Milk in place of
dairy milk ; you will be amazed how much more delicious your cooking will be.
A FREE RECIPE BOOK FOR YOU!
A Valuable Book containing over 100 Splendid Recipes for cooking with Nestle’s
Milk will be sent, free and post free, on application to Nestles, 347 Kent St., Sydney.
NESTLE’S CondiS MILK
\
\
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
NlB7
condensed
MILK
&
"6ST BB»»o
f)fc T( r=^ MAD E IN AUST*ALI*- £l
SvfeANGLO SWISS CONDtNSED^t,
MELBOLJftNE.
La '=e, Perth, H° 6


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Xl,eatres Ltd
Governing Director HUGH D. MclNlObii.
-p IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
every EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at
HUGH D. McINTOSH -presents MISS LEE Willie,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
MELBOURNE.
-IVOLI
THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents ______
THE VERY LATEST MUSICAL COMEDY SUCCESS,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Prices as usual.
|| k u MA.IES T V ’ S.
S V 1) N IC V.
Direction "i! C.“WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
Hv the J C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
C>. IC I 'l' 1C IC I O N T II IC A T It IC. SYDN HI.
* Direction .1. C. AVILLIAMSON LID.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinfies Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
CARTER THE GREAT
AND lIIS MAGICAL COMPANY.
A LINK WITH THE OTHER WORLD.
Plans at Paling’s.
Til EATIt IC It OYA L, SYI)N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
I. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their unique
combination of
DIGGEII-PIERROTS.
the keynote of the show— laughter.
Plans at Paling’s.
J. & N. TAI.T ATTRACTIONS.
ALAC E
SYDNEY.
T H E A T R E,
NIGHTLY AT 7.45.
MatinCes Wednesdays and Saturdays.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT’S
Record-Breaking Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
“The best yet staged at the Palace.”
—D. Telegraph.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
INIONI>ICTUIt E T II E A T R E S
THE PICK OF THE WORT.D'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
iTRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS.
lAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
LJEIt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
>■ Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.’50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present a musical
play de luxe,
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
rll It ATIt E It () V A 1,. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present a grand reproduc-
ion of one of the most successful Musical Plays in
•ears, v
GOING UP.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MEI,BOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY k GRANT
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
& N. TAIT present the fascinating English actress
EMELIE POLINI in
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL,
A Fascinating English Comedy Drama.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S
Proprietors
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY and GRANT present the last nights of the
jjreat Love and Laughter Australian Sunshine Play,
ON OUR SELECTION.
All the Rudd family come to town to greet the
Prince of Wales.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
The playhouse,- Melbourne.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
THEATRE. M EL BOURNE.
BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
and N. TAIT present the greatest of all Digger
Shows,
THE SMART SET DIGGERS,
in a musical barrage,
IE DIGGERS’ DREAM OF LONDON AND PARIS,
■ices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at-Allan’s.
•OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction CHAPPELL.
ENGLAND’S LEADING VOCALISTS.
AMY EVANS, Soprano,
and
FRASER GANGE, Basso-cantante.
MELBOURNE SEASON OPENS JUNE 8.
SYDNEY SEASON OPENS JUNE 29.
rO WN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
ONDAY, JUNE 7 ; WEDNESDAY, 9th (Matinge) ;
PIDAY, 11th; MONDAY, 14th; WEDNESDAY,
, 16th; and SATURDAY, 19th.
& N. TAIT present the Russian Poet of the Piano,
MOISEIWITSCH.
Prices, 6/-, 4/- and 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
OYT’S
MELBOIJ RNE.
THEATRES,
Also SYDNEY.
LUXE, BOURKE STREF.T, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
THEDA BARA in
WOMANHOOD TRIUMPHANT.
VIVIAN MARTIN in
HIS OFFICIAL FIANCEE.
Prices as usual.
I ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
; productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
DRLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MARY PICKFORD in
HEART OF THE HIRES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
including Miss FREDTSWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in LUCK OF THE NAVY,
THE ROTTERS, A TEMPORARY GENTLEMAN.
DUNEDIN, TO JUNF, 12.
No. 2 Company, “The Rotters,” now touring North
Island.
g RITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
*r HE HEYFORD-SMITH SCHOOL OF
1 DANCING.
THE LATEST ENGLISH BALLROOM DANCES
TAUGHT.
ADULT EVENING CLASSES.
PRIVATE CLASSES. PRIVATE LESSONS.
SCHOOLS VISITED.
For particulars apply
54 TOORAK ROAD, SOUTH YARRA, MELBOURNE.
CLASSES WILL RESUME FIRST WEEK IN JUNE.
Missing’ Friends.
miIOMAS CHARLES lIEITHERSAY,
I (late of Peterborough, South Austra-
lia), last heard of at Broken Hill about
nine months ago. The Executor of the
will of the late Samuel Heithersay, of Peter-
borough (S.A.), is desirous of winding up
the estate, and would like to hear from or of
the above before doing so. Please ccmmuni-
cate with
GEO. PHILP, Peterborough, S.A.
STEPHEN MOYLAN.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts or
fate of above will greatly oblige by
communicating with his brother.
J. W. MOYLAN,
No. 5 McArthur Street, Ballarat (Yic.).
-
Public Notices.
/ 1 IFT OF LAND-CLEARING INVEN-
TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING,”
Griffith, N.SAV.
Geelong R.S. 8 S. Woollen and Worsted
Co-operative Manufacturing Co. Limited,
Geelong, Victoria.
To be registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS.
Brigau.er-General ROBERT SMITH, C.M.G., D. 5.0., of Geelong, Wool Scourer.
Chaplain the Rev. CHARLES NEVILLE, of Geelong, Clergyman.
ALFRED JOHN FREEMAN, of Geelong, Inspector.
EDWARD NORMAN BELCHER, of Geelong, Estate Agent.
JONAS FRED SWITHENBANK, of Geelong, Instructor.
EDWARD JOHN FAIRNIE, of Geelong, Traveller.
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO, divided into 5000 Shares of
£2O each.
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allotment
is 1250 shares of £2O each fully paid up. •»
The requirements under Section 88 of the Companies Act 1915 have not been
fully complied with in this abridged advertisement, but copies of the full prospectus
and forms of application for shares may be obtained at the office of the Company,
Little Melop Street, Geelong.
Application for shares will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the prospectus.
No person eligible to become a member unless entitled to receive the War Gratuity.
No person to hold more than 5 shares at any one time.
A splendid opportunity to invest your War Gratuity.
APPLY AT ONCE.
A superb instrument
for your home
Any home will be proud of its New Edison —
an instrument of superb design that may be
had in various period cabinets.
Best of all. however,
The NEW EDISON
is a perfect reproducing instrument —it actually Re-creates
voice and instrument just as the ear hears them. All the
subtle inflexions of voice, nuances of tone, careful enuncia-
tion are rendered with truth and feeling.
The New Edison is the tangible culmination of Edison’s deep
research work in chemistry and acoustics it is the final
achievement in the musical world.
It is the only instrument capable of standing successful com-
parison with the original voice.
Music lovers (who view ordinary talking machines with dis-
favor) should certainly write for full details of the New
Edison.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
JSirot
By Appointment
€
Mr;
S'
The Bowler Hat again in
fashion and favored by the
Prince of Wales.
LEADING ENGLISH MAKES.
A. J. WHITE
HERBERT JOHNSON.
TRESS
WOODROW
SCOTTS,
etc.
Jkharii ;Stmt &CO,
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
Railway Station
Great Clock.
We have been honored with
the order to supply the great
Electric Clock for the Tower
of the Central Railway Station.
There are to be four dials,
each 15ft. 9in. diameter —a
noble-looking clock.
It will be the largest electric clock in Aus-
tralia, and the most up-to-date.
We made and supplied the largest
MECHANICAL Clock ever made in Australia,
and now will supply the largest ELECTRICAL
Clock in the Commonwealth.
We stock and make Electrical Clocks in all
sizes. If you are building, permit us to install
an electric-clock system throughout—the cost
is small, the convenience immense. Always
Observatory time, all clocks exactly to time,
no winding, no trouble. They last a lifetime.
Fairfax S Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
See Installation
in our Showroom.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
-L AUSTRALIA.
L.S. W. No. 5 OF 1920.
IN THE ESTATE of EDWARD WHELAN late 9f
Kalgoorlie in the State of Western Australia
Miner deceased intestate.
TO ANNIE WHELAN Widow of the said deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of Western Australia made in the above matter
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to ANNIE WHELAN
if living the lawful Widow of the abovenamed
deceased who died on 12th June 1919 at Boulder in
the said State intestate and Letters of Administra-
tion of whose estate were on 21st October 1919
granted by the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia to Kate Jay of Kalgoorlie Married Woman
TO GIVE NOTICE OF HER CLAIM TO OR OTHER-
WISE COMMUNICATE with the said Administratrix
at the office of her Solicitor Mr. George Hort
Joseph 20 Weld Chambers St. George’s Terrace
Perth in the said State on or before the 6th day
of September 1920 after which date the said Admin-
istratrix will apply for an order for leave to presume
the death of the said Annie Whelan prior to the
death'' of the said deceased and to distribute the
said Estate accordingly.
Dated the 17th day of May 1920.
C. A. SHERARD, Master.
BALFOUR, SCOTT and MUIR, Solicitors for the
Administratrix, Boulder, by their Agent, GEORGE
HORT JOSEPH, 20 Weld Chambers, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
Public Notice.
Bendigo Amalgamated Goldfields,
No Liability.
NOTICE.
A DIVIDEND, the First, of Sixpence per Share, has
been declared on all shares in the Company,
Nos. 1-1,769,038 inclusive, payable on WEDNES-
DAY, 30th JUNE, 1920. Transfer Books close at
the Company’s Office, Commonwealth Chambers,
Bendigo, on Friday, 11th June, 1920. Shareholders
holding scrip in other names must forward same
for transfer, otherwise the dividend will be paid to
the registered holders. J. G. STANFIELD, Manager.
Bendigo, 22nd May, 1920.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or cal! for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. '
bOORD & SON
LOUDON. ENGLAND *1
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
%
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN.
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOB INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANA3MIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating.
(Registered.)
me
SISTERE
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO,, LTD.. Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Eaunceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTII/LERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Kissing Time”
Criterion Carter the Great
Royal Digger-Pierrots
Palace “Mother Hubhard”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Her Majesty's .... “The Bing Boys on Broadway”
Royal “Going Up”
King's “The Little Damozel'’
Princess’s “On Our Selection”
Tivoli “His Little Widows”
The Playhouse The Smart Set Diggers
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
Town Hall (7th, 9th, 11th) Moiseiwitsch
Town Hall (Bth, 10th) .... Evans-Gange Concerts
♦
Lee White is a handsome vaudeville lady
with a friendly smile, a strong American
accent and a Carnegie library of stage cos-
tumes. “Bran Pie,” now open at Sydney
Tivoli, introduces her to Australia; and
a good many of 11. I). Mclntosh’s customers
show little enthusiasm about it until she leans
against a concert-grand and, accompanied
by Clay Smith, chatters and patters through
some ragtime with the ease of the specialist.
That is obviously their line, and it is a pity
they don’t keep to it. Victor Gouriet appears
fitfully as one of the ugly sisters in a Yank
diversion of “Cinderella” which is far too
long. Eccentric dancer George Gee keeps
busy all the evening as a memory-training
fool in a kitchen, and shares the best humor-
ous episode with Clarice Ilardwicke. Miss
Donalda Ayer supplies one burst of real
song, for which everyone is grateful, and
then vanishes. Gregory Stroud is a decor-
ous evening-dress singer who is heard occa-
sionally. From all of which it will be
gathered that “Bran Pie” isn’t conspicu-
ously rich in prizes, and playgoers who
remember Gouriet’s old-time work with
J.C.W. Ltd. will wonder why more use isn’t
made of him.
* $ * $
It is a privilege to hear the story of the
blocking of Zeebrugge and Ostend from the
lips of a modest Englishman who won the
V.C. in that extraordinary adventure; but
it must be confessed that the modest hero,
telling his plain tale as plainly as possible,
with only smudgy lantern slides to help him
out, doesn’t provide a show likely to attract
the jazzing public. So The Bulletin feels
doubtful about the brief lecturing season
arranged for Lieut.-Commander Rowland
Bourke, V.C., D. 5.0., at Sydney Playhouse.
To-night (Thursday) ami Friday will see
the closing lectures of the five-night experi-
ment, unless there is a sudden blaze of inter-
est at which J. and N. Tait can warm their
hands. Modern pictorial journalism has
rather spoilt the late lecturer’s pitch, and a
man with a long pointer indicating spots
of interest on “still” pictures seems like an
echo of 1880. Yet there is a hush of amaze-
ment as the gallant Bourke describes, with-
out flourishes of any sort, how he and his
crew heard English shouts for help and
again and again took their swift shell of a
motor-launch back through a hell of fire to
search for the three helpless survivors of the
Vindictive, whom they ultimately found and
brought off.
❖ >!' ']* Jfc
One of the most melodious of recent
feather-weight shows, “Kissing Time,” is
“The Little Damozel,"
at Melbourne King’s.
Raymond Lawrence
as Abraham.
assured in advance
of a long Sydney
r u n at II e r
Majesty’s. It is
brilliantly dressed
and undressed in
the right propor-
tio n s, has an
artistically - spiced
French plot which
gives all the prin-
cipals a chance,
never wearies the
audience with dia-
logue, and has a
full hand of ear-
tickling tunes. The
one department
where it might be
improved is the
star dancing, which
sacrifices grace to
be athletic. The
male dancing part-
ner of these days
has to be a heavy-
weight lifter in
evening-dress, and
some night a nice
plump girl will be
severely bruised
owing to her sup-
porting colleague
dying of heart
failure while holding her above his head
with one hand. Maude Fane and Gladys
Moncrieff are the twin feminine stars of the
production, and Maude’s doll-like fairness
contrasts prettil) r with the brunette beauty
of tall Gladys, who now acts as well as she
always sang. Leslie Holland, as the stage-
lover of one and husband of the other,
satisfies the most exacting feminine critics.
He has never made the mistake of getting
fat in the suburban-husband manner, but
remains the slim, well-tailored gallant of
musical comedy, and dances as lightly as
ever. What more can you expect? Chief
comedian Theodore Leonard is a hard-work-
ing nugget of a man who has to make most
of his own fun, the modern comedy being
built that way. He is funniest when imitat-
ing doddering age and (disguised as the cook
of his own household) stormily giving notice
to his wife’s doting old guardian-general
who is planning a family for the wrong pair
that “if any children appear in this house-
hold the cook leaves !” All these comedies seem
to depend on the amiable old ass with money
who mistakes the wife’s lover for the husband
and babbles of the restricted family birth-
rate to the confusion of everyone. Some
day the English drama may take him by
the slack of his French pants and throw
him into the next paddock. It’s time we
had a new dramatic lay-figure.
“Mother Hubbard” (accompanied by Mr.
,T. Cannot Hubbard) has done a six weeks’
non-stop run in the explosive motor-cycle
which is so carefully explained by the spec-
tacled Eton boy with the strong American
accent. Anyone who wants this riddle ex-
plained had better book seats at Sydney
Palace.
“MOTHER HUBBARD," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Mother Hubbard Lupino and her bibulous
spouse (Jack Cannot).
Evelyn Maxwell, the psychic expert, is not
the least remarkable feature of the magician
Carter’s show at Sydney Criterion. “You
are thinking of a young man,” she droned
cataleptically the other night, indicating a
confused maiden in the stalls. “No, not the
one with the prominent ears and the bull-
nosed shoes who is chewing gum on your left.
The one you are thinking of seems to me to
be fair, and he smiles —goodness, how he
smiles! lie is dressed in a naval uniform.
No, I am wrong. It is a military uniform.
He seems to me to be an admiral. Or, again;
he may be a scout-master. Anyhow, he is
beautiful. You are hoping to meet him
soon. You wish to dance with him. You
would not object to a mild flirtation. For
his sake you would gladly forego your rights
to Horace, on your left, and his Yankee
footwear. Am 1 right?” “Wonderful!
Wonderful!” murmured the blushing girl, as
the audience burst into thunderous cheers.
Sydney people can still find the J.C.W.
Digger-Pierrots at the Royal.
Sydney Crystal Palace, which for so long
tried to elucidate the Eternal Triangle
attractively, poising the given straight line
A B over the social abyss, now takes a
plunge into adventure, using his daughter
Sonia as an excuse for following up the life
of her fascinating dad, the “Lone Wolf.”
And, indeed, if Lanyard had not been on
the spot there would have been no royal
visit to-day, for he it was who foiled the plot
to kill off King and Queen, Lloyd George
and Billy Hughes, by running a system of
poison-gas through London’s mains. Mabel
Norma nd, as “A Perfect Thirty-Six,” dis-
plays curves and a beautiful back to inter-
ested audiences at Lyceum and Lyric. On
the same sheet “Nine-tenths of the Law”
mostly concerns itself with the North
Canadian backwoods and the finding of a
little boy in one of his bear-traps by a child-
less trapper. “Greater Than Fame” is the
Strand attraction, and in this Elaine Ham-
merstein is given a Melba voice and all the
temptations that bloom along the path of
the girl in the movies. Love, of course, is
the solution of the picture puzzle, and they
live happily ever after.
The Danish pianist Haagen Holenbergh,
who made such a good impression at his first
Sydney recital, will give a second on Friday,
June 11, in the Conservatorium Hall. The
programme will include groups of Scandi-
navian pieces.
The reappearance of “Going Up” at Mel-
bourne Boyal gives the local multitude its
first chance to inspect Gracie Lavers in the
part that was previously Ethel Erskine’s.
Grace has a sweet warble and a dainty per-
sonality, but her speaking voice hasn’t
enough volume and melody to give full
effect to the confectionery that is allotted
to the heroine. Floie Allan now twitters
in the r6le of the telephone girl, and her
beauteous utterance of “Mr. Street!” makes
that thoroughfare feel like a royal promen-
ade. Frith, as Street, continues his senti-
mental journey with a countenance trained
to express a vacuum, and his faithful cob-
bers, Harry Wooton and Cyril Ritchards,
are still waiting open-mouthed to get a
good bite at the dialogue. George Wil-
loughby, much thinner than before, looks no
longer in touch with his clothes, whereas
Field Fisher, as the spacious Sam Robin-
son, is almost a fly’s Marathon around the
equator. William Greene repeats in his Gail-
lard the old underdone Englishman with a
lick of French polish; and Cecil Bradley, as
Madeline Manners, remains a monument of
hopeless yearning for a sylph-like figure. For
effectiveness and physical charm, however,
Madge Elliott is the queen of the show. Her
two dances with Cyril Ritchards on Satur-
day were exhibitions of perfect poise and
grace of limb. The chorus is as smart ns
ever, but the orchestra isn’t over-abundant.
“Bing Boys on Broadway” wears a com-
pelling appearance in Melbourne Majesty’s
advt.; all the same, the large patchwork
looks unseasonable in the drear autumn of
Melbourne’s discontent. Except for gloom-
some scenes of the exterior and interior of
Li Wong’s opium joint, where Frank Haw-
thorne’s picture of the unspeakable Chow
is more than powerful enough for two
American melodramas, the J.C.W. show is
of the panto, order, and expects to be judged
accordingly. And one can’t feel as one felt
at panto, time. The edge of criticism gets
sharpened on the strop of early winter, and
the effort of Jennie Hartley (an American
actress) to achieve a Cockney accent
amounts to a public grievance. She talks
almost as unnaturally as Reg. Roberts looks
in the nondescript character of Shorty.
Seriously, “Bing Boys” is not all that Mel-
bourne pictured it, or nearly all. It wants
more pep, and it has the grave fault of
being heavier in the second act than the
first.
“His Little Widows” at Melbourne Tivoli
is still suffering from a superfluity of rag-
time and scarcity of vocal equipment. Other-
wise the story of how Samuel Lloyd de-
ceased bequeathed 11 wives to Rex London,
and of how the united efforts of Hugh Steyne
and Valentine were required to push the
legatee into matrimony, is up to the average
of. previous Tivoli contributions to the
gaiety of nations. Moreover, the artless
narrative can be commended for avoiding
the deepest pitfalls of Mormon suggestion.
It might be well for the Taits to adver-
tise “The Little Damozel,” at Melbourne
King’s, as a capital entertainment for people
who want to get away early, and object to
long waits between acts. Then the manage-
ment could confidently raise the curtain at 8
sharp, and drop it at 10.20 or earlier, instead
of spinning out time with a play that is
short enough to be linked to a curtain-raiser.
“The Little Damozel” is essentially a little
comedy to be enjoyed in a hurry. Mel-
bourne talks kindly of the sweet-voiced bands-
woman, and the amiable reprobate who asks
£15,000 reward for marrying her, and the
peevish-toned Brookyn who touts for life-
insurance business under the title of “sti-
pendiary patron” to the co. But why spin
out the performance?
One more week of “On Our Selection,” at
Melbourne Princess’s, and it will give way to
Courtneidge’s Comedy Co. Meanwhile the
present “Selection” is mostly an echo of the
past. A gloomy Dave, of uncertain age,
makes a brave endeavor to grumble in the
same key as the first Dave; Mum and Joe
and Sandy do their best to follow in the
vocal footsteps of the pioneers, and Uncle is
determined to squeak exactly like Willie
Driscoll of yore, or perish in the attempt.
The gait of Maloney Duggan (promoted to
the position of Dad) is imitated by the new
Maloney; and Lil, wife of Dave, jumps the
claim of a lady colleague by adopting the
pessimistic accents of the original Sarah.
* * * *
The Smart Set Diggers are still luring
hordes across Princes Bridge to Melbourne
Playhouse. One of the fascinations of the
company is the ravishing “Tiki” Carpenter,
and the impersonation is so clever that
strong, brave men have roared their in-
credulity at the mean suggestion that she is
really a man. Unhappily, however, it is
only too true, but previous knowledge of the
fraud doesn’t spoil the illusion. Fake or
not, “Tiki” is a picture.
Pianist Moiseiwitsch opens his Melbourne
season next Monday night. Further con-
certs follow on Wednesday (matinde) and
Friday in the same week.
* * * Hi
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, are screening Theda
Bara in her latest outbreak, “Womanhood
“The Little Damozel ,”
at Melbourne King's.
John Fernside as
Pepo.
Triumphan t.”
Theda begins
naughtily, but after
a space her con-
science lifts her
eyes to Higher
Things. One of
the las t-named
wears a collar back
to front, and she
ultimately flattens
out in his hungry
arms. The follow-
on is “His Official
Fiancee,” in which
Vivian Martin tra-
vels a road that
she has often taken
before. At the
Lyceum Vivian is
also on view along
with cheeky Olive
Thomas as “The
Spite Bride.” Mel-
bourne Majestic
has started a week
of Constance Tal-
madge in “Sauce
for the Goose,” in
which Connie is
the sauce and her
husband the poul-
try. The other
runner in the
Majestic tandem is
“Slaves of Pride,”
which alleges that the course of untrue opu-
lence never runs smooth. Alice Joyce plays
the principal part in this.
Norah Gurdon’s picture-show:—
Iler canvases at Melbourne Athenaeum are not
artistically great, but their sound color and modest
price should bring a swarm of buyers. The artist
makes her best score with her studies of St. Ives,
Cornwall, where the dancing shadows of fishing
smacks and the shimmering pearl of sunlit water
are fascinating subjects for her brush. She also
hangs numerous little canvases of the English
countryside—maybe only a hayrick, a cottage and a
field of clover or a glimpse of sky through wintry
trees —but each picture expresses the pleasure she
derives in painting the scene. Iler views of old
houses in Shrewsbury and elsewhere are also pretty
good, and she faithfully pictures the grandeurs of
mountain vistas in the north of England. She is
not so attractive in her French impressions. Her
feeling for high, flaunting colors, comparatively re-
pressed by the soothing landscape of England, is
tempted to extravagance by the larger contrasts
of France, and the result is not always agreeable.
Yet many will linger over her French fishing boats,
with sails of salmon, blue and apricot forcing into
notice the dark, dingy brown of their low fat hulls.
Another Melbourne picture-show:—
Violet Teague takes the prize in the Vic. Artists’
show for a capably-painted portrait of Lieut. Paton
Rede. Bernard Hall's portrait, “Looking Back,”
is in the cold, correct manner he first brought to
Australia. Leslie Wilkie shows better color in his
soothing portrait of a flapper. Mary Allen’s prin-
cipal subject, “Lucrezia,” is an intense, skimpy
young female whose eyes are trying to pretend that
her other name is Borgia. It is a great relief to
turn to the pagan freshness of G. C. Benson, demon-
strated in “Sleepy Hollow” and several other com-
positions. Penleigh Boyd also scores with a land-
scape study in sage green with a banner of light
sweeping over the middle distance. Streetoq’s
“Columbine Fan” holds the critical eye longer than
many adjoining potboilers; and there is some quality
in Norman Macgeorge’s landscapes, though his art
doesn’t sail under a large spread of canvas. A. J. Bur-
gess continues to splash pigment as a naval historian.
W. J. Macnally contributes “The End of the Day,”
which might be the lively beginning of another;
but he is more entertaining in “The Quarry, Lily-
dale,” with one of his favorite wind-blown skies.
Dora Wilson and Cumbrae Stewart pastel the con-
tours of undeveloped maidens with an industry
worthy of an occasional pause. J. G. Croft gets
cheers for his viridescent canvas, “Evening,” though
it is more like the morning after a bout of
creme de men the. George Reynolds’s “White Squall”
is an improvement on his previous work. W. D.
Knox’s landscapes remain ecstasies of peace in a
sun-kissed world; and Victor Zelman shows good
taste and discretion in his various sketches. The
miniatures and etchings have no special distinction,
and the sculpture section contains nothing more
memorable than J. G. Croft’s bust of an army nurse.
From an Adelaide critic:-
At Preece’s Gallery there is a small but good
collection of Penleigh Boyd’s paintings. They strike
rather a new note. Sometimes he has a restful bit
of coast scenery, or white foam in the Will Ashton
manner. But mostly he delights in a certain hill
and meadow on the Upper Yarra, and these he treats
by day or night in a misty style which has much
attraction, but is rather strange under the clearer
skies of Adelaide. His other strong point is massed
wattle-bloom, treated decoratively, but with tre-
mendous effect against an unearthly dark back-
ground.


MURDOCH-MADE
Pure Wool
COAT SWEATERS
(Super Quality)
3 Of-
V Front Style,
‘Pay less
to dress
better
m
'l'//'/ ////1 111 SC • -'\\
* 'I II . I I f ih
% m
ill ..".l il
Ml jJwMw ‘ \'
Oii^
I 1 c,/
XT’
...
Polo Style.
The Sweaters described below are all made in Murdoch’s sunlit workrooms,
from Pure Wool, hence the moderate prices; in addition, special
attention has been given to quality and finish —for instance, the cuffs are
double close knitted, all seams are neatly flat-seamed (no frayed edges), the
shoulders are taped. These details ensure perfect, durable shape and wear.
TWO STYLES TO SELECT FROM.
V-FRONT STYLE. —All-wool Coat Sweater, V front, special finish, winter-
weight quality, Navy, Brown, and Mid or Bark Grey. S. Men’s and Men’s
Sizes, 30/-; Out sizes, 31/6; Ex 0.5., 33/6.
POLO STYLE. —All-wool Coat Sweater, with polo collar, special finish, winter
weight. In Brown, Navy, Mid or Bark Grey. S. Men’s and Men’s sizes, 31/6;
Out sizes, 33/-: Ex. 0.5., 35/-.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
When ordering write to DESK R and state chest measurement and color
required.
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
The World's Largest Men's & Boys’ Wear Store
(Attained through consistent service to the people.)
The “Appointment” Watch.
THE Watch illustrated is the Firm’s “Appointment”
Watch—a very high-grade Silver Lever, and an
excellent timekeeper. Embodied in the movement
is a miniature gong which, by being set by means of an
indicator, serves as a reminder during the day of any
appointments made, and forms an invaluable asset to
the business man. The easel back, luminous dial and
hands enable the watch to be used as a bedside watch
during the night. Price, from £B. The Firm will be
glad to forward this watch on approval to any address
in the Commonwealth.
®SJm. Brummonb & Co.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
METROPOLITAN-VICKERS ELECTRICAL CO. LTD.
Electric Motors
There is a Metropolitan-Vicars Motor for every power application
purpose. They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and
direct current. They are built to withstand severe service and to
give maximum efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,750,000 li.p. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterised by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A Metropolitan-Vicars motor is the one that will enable you to
realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co. Ltd.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:—
84 William Street, Melbourne. 12 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
TURNBULL & JONES, LIMITED,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
MAXWELL
TRUCKS.
IN considering the cost of motor vehicles versus animal-drawn
vehicles do not overlook the dispatch with which the work
can be done, the carrying capacity, the less care and attention,
the saving in upkeep, and you will appreciate the saving in cost of
transportation in favor of the Maxwell Truck.
The Maxwell Truck works all day—every day. No waggon
can keep up with it. Weather cannot keep it indoors. No animal
or machine can equal it for willing and competent service.
Investigate the daily savings in hauling cost Maxwell Trucks
are accomplishing for others. You will wonder why you have
not bought a Maxwell Truck before. Magneto, Worm Drive,
10 foot loading space, Electric Lights and Generator.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OP DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —New York.'
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


Alkali Causes Soap
To Injure Hair.
Nearly all soaps and ready-mixed shampoos
—even the most expensive—contain too much
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
scalp and makes the hair brittle.
Really the most elegant and safe thing to
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—but is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things.
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces lasts you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it through—thoroughly. One
or two teaspoonfuls is plenty to create a big
quantity of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully and rinses out easily.
The hair dries quickly and easily, and comes
out brilliant, soft, fluffy, wavy and fresh as a
daisy, looking much thicker than it actually
is.
Best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. And yet
It loosens and carries off every bit of excess
oiliness, dust, dirt or dandruff scurf.
IMPORTANT. —Do not confuse colinated cocoanut,
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, as recommended above.
Girls! Women! Give this a Corner on your Dressing-
table. Never Let a Corn Ache Again!
Like a Flash! Few Drops Stop Corns Throbbing,
Then Corns and Callouses Wither Up, Loosen
and Lift Out Like a Cork—Painlessly!
NNB
THE Australian people owe a
debt of gratitude to tbe wizard
in chemistry who formulated the
new ether discovery named
Frozol-Ice.
Little phials of this
wonder liquid are now
obtainable from any chem-
ist for a few pence. You
merely apply a few drops
of this Frozol-Ice on a ten-
der, aching corn or tough-
ened callous. Right away all
soreness vanishes, and soon you see the
corn or callous that loose and withered
that it lifts out with the fingers, like a
cork. Not a twinge of pain or even irritation
is felt when using Frozol-Ice, or afterwards.
No soreness, no inflammation of surrounding
healthy flesh or skin.
Only a few pence now gives one freedom
from all and each soft corn, hard corn, corn
between the toes, likewise tender callouses on
bottom of the feet. Every Australian who
tries Frozol-Ice sings its praises, for it
honestly does not hurt one wee bit.
Step in at your chemist’s to-night and in-
sist on having a small phial of Frozol-Ice.
in the green-printed carton. Stand on “your
dig.” and refuse spurious imitations of this
great compound.
Easy Way to Get
Rid of Indigestion.
Although you may have indigestion so
severely that anything but the simplest of
foods cause you the keenest suffering, there
is a simple way to get back safely to pleas-
anter, more nourishing foods. Just take a
teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia in a little
hot or cold water with eacn meal, and begin
at once to eat a little of any . food you crave.
Salix Magnesia, which comes in the form of
powder or tablets (never as a liquid or coarse
granules) is not a laxative, but neutralises
the excess acid in the stomach, and so prevents
or stops all the pain of indigestion. Its use
cannot, like pepsin, soda-water, etc., do the
stomach any injury, and it will soon enable
you to eat good, hearty, satisfying meals of
the foods you like best without fear of bad
results. Your chemist should be able to sup-
ply you with Salix Magnesia.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“0.K.”: Verbrugghen in Melbourne did
the right thing in suggesting that Alberto
Zelman should be appointed conductor of
the Vic. State Orchestra—if it eventuates.
Alberto Zelman the Younger (his quaint old
father before him had the same front-name)
was born and educated to the musical pro-
fession ; also he has shown his enthusiasm
by organising and conducting a symphony
orchestra, and is a solo violinist whose in-
strument talks more feelingly than Ver-
brugghen’s. And he is as likeable as he is
capable. In his freedom from affectation
he is typically Australian.
“Norbell”: When George Rignold did
“Henry V.” at Perth, manager Sammy
Marks had hard work to find a suitable
white horse to carry George Rex’s lOst. and
armor in the procession into London. At
last a fine animal, a bit on the heavy side,
was secured from a milk cart, and duly
Clay Smith in "Bran
Pie,” at Sydney Tivoli.
attended rehearsal
to get used to the
limelight. Every-
thing passed off
satisfactorily, and
then Rignold asked,
“B y the way,
Marks, what* have
I got to pay for the
hire of this moke?”
“£1 a performance,
paid in advance,”
said Marks. “It’s
either that, or no
horse !” “Holy St.
Crispin!” swore
Rignold, “t h a t\s
more than I pay the
Duke of Gloucester
or Charles the Sixth
of France!” How-
ever, dobbin was
engaged, and on the
opening night,
richly caparisoned,
he was ready at the
O.P. Somebody,
however, recognised
the charger and
yodelled “Milk
oh-h-h !” just as the
king was riding
“on.” The war-
horse stopped dead,
and not even Rig-
nold’s fervid rhetoric could make him budge.
At last the resourceful G.R. rattled his
royal armor like a cartload of milkeans,
and the faithful dobbin obediently went on.
Robert Courtneidge, giving “Billjim” a
trial in Adelaide, plays an old Scotchman,
which is. of course, right into his hands.
All the same, it must have been somewhat
of an ordeal; for Courtneidge has been man-
ager and producer these many years past
and not an actor. A previous re-appear-
ance in greasepaint happened in Australia
17 years ago, when Musgrove revived “On
’Change’’ at Melbourne Princess’s for one
performance only, in order that bis old
friend shouldn’t leave the country without
figuring in his original capacity. Court-
neidge had come to Australia for the second
time, and had produced “A Midsummer
Night's Dream” and “As You Like It” for
Musgrove, who had bought the beautiful
fixings in Manchester. Even then he had
been sufficiently long out of histrionic har-
ness to feel nervous about going on as an
old Professor.
The conclusions of Moses Baritz
I have heard the Sydney Conservatorium orchestra
three times —once over a year ago, and twice last
Bpring. The improvement made in every branch
was phenomenal. Verbrugghen reached the highest
point when the Prelude and Leibestod from “Tristan
and Isolde” was played. I think lam able to dis-
cern the idea of the conductor as against the results
he got. And in the end he extratted from the orches-
tra what he could not have obtained at the beginning.
I put the greatest conductors elsewhere into three
classes: (1) Dr. Hans Richter, Nikiseh, Karl Muck,
Hertz and Mengelberg; (2) Sir Thomas Beecham,
Sir Henry Wood, Landou Ronald and Hamilton Marty ;
(3) Walter Damrosch and Leopold Stokovsky. For
a half-century these men have been accepted as the
greatest in their respective spheres. Verbrugghen
stands high among these, and highest as an ex-
ponent of Brahms. None of the living conductors
would dispute his position. When the war broke
out the London Daily Telegraph started a relief
fund for the Belgians, and one of the means adopted
for increasing the funds was an orchestral concert.
That concert was conducted by Henri Verbrugghen,
who had his usual Bach, Brahms and Beethoven pro-
gramme. At that concert Sir Edward Elgar con-
“MOTHER HUBBARD.” AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Maurice Dudley as Entwhistle.
ducted the first performance of his “Carillon.” Ver-
brugghen’s manipulation of the items he selected
created such a sensation that a special Bach, Brahms
and Beethoven festival was held in London for six days
in April, 1915, and Verbrugghen presided at the desk.
Let some of his critics here turn up the London news-
papers of that date and read the commendatory
notices he received. The London Times was very
glowing in its praise of his Brahms work: it ad-
mitted that new beauties were uncovered that had
not been heard before. Each of those conductors
mentioned above is an expert in some particular—
Beecham for Mozart and the modern Russian school;
Wood for Dvorak and Tschaikovski; Stokovsky (con-
ductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra) as a Wag-
nerian and interpreter of Mahler. Yerbrugghen
need not worry when he can get encomiums from
Ernest Newman and Samuel Langford, now the
critics for the Manchester Guardian. It would be
far more interesting for the development of music
if some of the Australian “critics” of Verbrugghen
were to get a wider view than is permitted in Aus-
tralia. By what standard do they judge Yerbrug-
ghen? Have they some new standard unrealised in
the rest of the musical world ?
Lillah McCarthy, Wilson Barrett’s leading
lady on two Australian trips, lias got married
again. Her first husband was actor-author
Granville Barker, whom she divorced. She
is now Mrs. Keeble. Her new husband is a
professor of botany and a widower, and was
connected with the Board of Agriculture
during the war. Lillah continues to act as
well as she looks.
“Peter”: Herbert Ranson, who came to
Australia with Cyril Maude, is doing
“Daddies” for the Taits in Maoriland with
his wife, Ernita Lascelles, as principal lady.
Ernita is rather a striking personality and
was selected by G. B. Shaw to introduce
Fanny and her First Play to American
audiences. The Taits think so much of the
actress’s possibilities that they talk of bring-
ing her to Australia and putting her up in
a couple of new pieces.
“Lex” : Daisy Yates may have been “fairly
entitled to her verdict for £5OO damages
and costs” (B. 27/5/’2O), but between that
and collecting the money there is a wide
gap. According to the evidence Yates has
an earning capacity of £lO a week —termin-
able on illness, during rehearsals, etc. It
is already mortgaged for £100; his other
assets are nil ; and meanwhile even a dancer
must live. It was almost certainly not so
much the merits of the plaintiff’s case as
the defence set up by Yates that produced
the verdict. Even juries understand nowa-
days that in Bohemia alliances such as theirs
are lightly entered upon and as lightly
broken, with not much damage to either
party. But the Lothario who complains, as
Yates did, that the woman tempted him is
always regarded with impatience. The case
has another aspect. The plaintiff must
have known —none better —that she could
not hope to get £2OOO, or for that matter
2000 shillings, out of her friend of other
days. All she has achieved has been to
“show him up” and possibly impel him to
refuge in the Insolvency Court. Gratifying,
no doubt, to a woman scorned; but in no
sense the purpose for which the Act was
drafted.
“S.S.”: At the Old Colonists’ Home in
Melbourne the other day Eloise Juno cele-
brated her 80th birthday. For many years
the old-time popular actress has been an
inmate of this favorite resort for venerable
and incapacitated pros.—a resort which
owes much to the generosity of the late
George Coppin, and in which George’s family
still takes a lively interest.
“T. D. Erndee”: Matheson Lang and
Bourchier do not appear to have left the
beaten track as Othello and lago. What
has always seemed extraordinary to me in
the Othellos I have seen is that they dressed
them as Moslems, whereas the Moor was a
self-declared Christian. The barbaric dress
is entirely foreign to the text. George Rig-
nold was the worst offender, for he wore
most voluminous garments, with a turban
and a scimitar hanging at his side. Ilis
lago, Harry Diver, was a sardonic, pussy-
foot villain of the Mephistopheles type. J.
Carter Edwards, who played lago with Wil-
son Barrett, was the real “honest lago”—
a rough soldier whose uppermost thought
was to get even with the Moor.
“C. Ockney” : Recently in the same week
three stars whose ages totalled 229 years
were playing “leads,” in each case an exact-
ing part, in London—Arthur Roberts, in his
70th year, still “topping the bill” as a com-
edian in a new musical piece at the Seala ;
Louis Bonwmeester, a famed Dutch tragedy-
merchant, who was Shylocking at the Duke
of York’s at the age of 75 ; and, most re-
markable of the trio, Australia’s old friend
Genevieve Ward, just turned 84, who was
thrilling audiences at the old Vic. as Vol-
umnia in “Coriolanus.”
“Fax” : It was announced lately in London
that Mrs. Kendal had that day completed her
71st year. The understating of the age of
an infant phenomenon begins in infancy, as
a rule. An old “Dramatic List” says that
Ellen Terry and Mrs. Kendal were born
in the same year. The Bancroft lady ad-
mitted that she first appeared in London
in ISSG, playing the boy in “Belphegor” and
Perdita in a burlesque of “The Winter’s
Tale.” Ellen Terry is credited with hav-
ing taken a child’s part in a revival of
Shakspeare’s “Tale” the same year, and Mrs.
Kendal admittedly figured four years previ-
ously at a London theatre as the Blind Child
in “Seven Poor Travellers.” Of these
three famous lights of other days Lady
Bancroft is doubtless the oldest. She is
well into the 80’s, anyhow. And if Ellen
Terry, whom Australia remembers as a pic-
turesque old woman some years ago, is only
the same age as Mrs. Kendal, the latter
must have worn much better than Ellen.
At what time of life does an actress begin
to' brag of her agedness, like the late Mrs.
Iveeley ?
“Orb”: Terry Goodwin, who has toured
the smalls in Bananaland with bellowdrama
for years, joined forces for a time with
Tommy Burns, when the ex-champion was
showing pictures. Tommy, who didn’t
mind meeting Jack Johnson, was rather
afraid of facing the audience at Gadgetville
when one of his films went bung and an
apology was necessary. This rather amused
Terry, who thought nothing of changing the
bill from “Romeo and Juliet” to the “Worst
Woman’s Wishbone” without explanation, if
the exigencies of the moment so required.
“What kinder hot-air am I to hand out to
the guys?” implored Tommy. Quoth the
experienced Terry, “Tell ’em if they’re dis-
satisfied you’ll be delighted to meet ’em and
explain things to ’em one by one!”
“Fax”: Australia has almost forgotten
Tom Wootwell, an English music-hall com-
edian whom Harry Rickards imported be-
fore he had made anything of a name in his
own country. Wootwell was an active ana
intelligent humorist, and his appearance as
a ragged, wandering minstrels with a penny
whistle at his mouth, was particularly
funny. On a second visit lie was one or
the principals in a panto, that Rickards
staged, and then Wootwell said good-bye
to Australia. He is a mummer of some
importance these times, one of his popular
specialties being Bert in “The Better Ole.
“0.K.” : Lawyer Joe Woolf is figuring as
recoverer-in-chief of damages to theatrical
professionals in Melbourne. Daisy Yates
“Bran Pie,” at Sydney
Tivoli.
Victor Gouriet as
Evphronia, a Cinder-
ella burlesque.
was only one of
three lady clients
in the same week
who achieved a
£5OO verdict, with
Woolf in charge
of the case. An-
other was a girl
who sued a book-
maker for breach
of promise, and
the least conspicu-
ous of the three
was a married
woman who had
followed her hus-
ban>l from Eng-
land, where he had
left her with .an
allowance of 15s.
a week for 18
months whilst he
played up a legacy
of £4OOO in sweet
communion with
another woman. In
this case the wife
got a decree, and
defendant agreed to
pay her £520 in
satisfaction of her
alimony and main-
tenance claims.
Early in the next
week Joe Woolf
fired a writ for
£5OOO damages into
the J.C.W. firm, on behalf of Dan Agar, the
claim being for breach of contract.
“T. D. Emdee”: “Copabella’s” reference
to the Browning automatic (B. 13/5/’2O)
recalls.another anachronism. It was in Rig-
nold’s prduction of “Flesh and the Devil,”
a dramatisation of Sardou’s play “La
Patrie,” at Sydney Criterion. The story
deals with the Duke of Alva’s campaign in
the Netherlands, and Harry Diver, who was
the Duke, looked as though he had walked
out of the pages of Motley’s “Dutch Re-
public.” But Rignold armed his super-
soldiers with Martini rifles, and when one
of the critics described this as an anachro-
nism George growled to his agent, Ernie
Blackstone: “I’ll bet the beggar had to look
in the dictionary to see how to spell it.”
“Stargazer”: Another new musical com-
edian from London is showing in Melbourne.
He only emphasises the wonderful alikeness
of musical comedians from London. The
extraordinary similarity is easily accounted
for. A Cockney comedian makes a hit in
his native village, and immediately there
jumps up (almost in a night, in fact) a
prolific crop of exactly similar comedians
doing what the successful humorist has done,
looking as he has looked, saying what he
has said in the same voice as he has used,
and being in all essentials exact counterparts
of the original. In due time we get a num-
ber of samples- at the Antipodes, and we
usually accuse these of shamefully imitating
each other, giving full credit for originality
to the firstcomer, whereas they are all imitat-
ing somebody else. The low comedian who
did the melancholy Peter Dood.v in “The
Arcadians” here was introduced to a Mel-
bourne man in a Swanston-street bar. The
latter shook the comedian heartily by the
hand, and said how glad he was to see him
again. “Do you know me?” asked the actor.
“Why, yes, of course I know you.” “But
I don’t think we ever met before.” “No.
but I often met the chap who originated
Peter Doodv in London, and it amounts to
the same thing.” The Australian Peter was
quite angry about it.
“Fax”: A Melbourne theatrical critic,
writing of “Bing Boys,” said that the revue
class of entertainment was “a war-time ex-
pedient.” Ye gods! Such remarks almost
justify the dictum of William Morris
Hughes that “newspapers will say any-
thing.” Revue came into fashion at the
same time as the tango, or earlier, and every-
body ought to know that the war happened
because something awful had got to happen
when civilisation had recently given birth
to revue and tango.
“O.Iv.”: Recent theatrical gossip from
London mentions the imminent appearance
of Basil Gill as Plamlet, and predicts a great
'artistic success for him. He was one of
Wilson Barrett’s young men, and the lead-
ing juvenile of the second company that old
battler brought to Australia.
BILLY AND THE PRINCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The Royal visitor took his gloves off in the
official set of lancers, and shortly afterwards the
Prime Minister followed his example.”
’Twas in the high official set—
The opening set of lancers—
The Prince and Little Billy met
And mystified the dancers;
For neither of them knew the moves,
But both declared them silly ;
And when the Prince took off his gloves—
Well, so did Little Billy.
Barehanded waltzed the smiling Prince
(Brisk exercise he needed) ;
Oh, not before the Flood nor since,
Hath mortal hopped as he did;
His partners, blushing, like the rose,
Emitted gigglets shrilly,
And when his Highness blew his nose—
Well, so did Little Billy.
In supper-room, or cool retreat,
Away from watchful minions,
The Prince and Billy oft would meet
To interchange opinions.
Of pretty girls spoke they—eh, what?
Of matron fair or filly:
And when the Prince remarked “It’s hot” —
Well, so did Little Billy.
The Prince may have a mind sometime
On etiquette to trample;
The Minister entitled Prime
Will follow his example.
The Prince’s views on Church and State,
Or subjects light and frilly,
Will be repeated, sure as fate,
By imitative Billy.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Il
ft
*
iMlMnttt
MMim
f
I llllllj DIIIIIJ
aiiuftmijJi
iiHmnu
Ul mi n ,
jiilumi.
rrv/114
Wii
1 iiliimmiiwi!!
dhm
IIUIUJiIM
IlllUJllUjJM
lUliDiltß
• lUJlliuiluJß
life
nnmr' 11 "'
ulLm'n
III))
ilUi/JIIDIIII
JiiJiliilUli)
lll)lilllllllllll
l|/ll)l)Hll)lJI
*4^
lIlHIli
iMUJIII
j.)wn))H))i
CT*
!4>!UI
l)jlll|l))lllllilj!ll
m
lumwj
liilDll)
Stimuli
ffiui
•Run
min
M i
/ee all timo/
“That which is written, remaineth!’’
u Lit era seripta manet.”
It has been said that the true difference between mankind and the brute
creation is the gift of speech. This is but half-truth, for how could we be “the
heirs of all ages” were it not for the perpetuation of race-memory by means of
WRITTEN Speech—by means of BOOKS?
Hence it is the duty—the unquestionable duty—of every civilised man and
woman to collect and to use a library ; not necessarily an expensive and exhaustive
library such as the privileged few alone may possess; but a little collection of
books such as are vital to the mental, spiritual and cultural well-being of their
possessor.
The question arises: Which are the books vital to such well-being?
Surely History must come first, for only in the light of history can the
riddle of to-day’s world be read.
There is one presentation of the world’s history which is more thrilling
than any tale of adventure, more absorbing than any novel.
This monumental work is simply and truly entitled “THE WORLD’S
STORY,” and it is in no sense the convential work of historical references. Its
sub-title, “A History of the World in Story, Song and Art,” conveys some idea of
the ideals which animated the men who compiled it.
It is HISTORY TELLINQ ITSELF, in its own language. Far back as
written records exist, these wonderful volumes show you history unrolling itself
AS IT APPEARED TO THOSE WHO WERE LIVING IT.
The world’s slowly evolving thought is shown in extracts from the great
thinkers of all ages, from Homer and Plato to Tolstoi and Carlyle. The world’s
magnificent deeds are recorded in vivid pictures—pen pictures and brush pictures
—from Zenopton to Captain Scott.
There is at once a contrast and a wonderful similarity between the exploits
of the former and the latter. Right down the ringing ages comes the glad cry
“Thallatta ! Thallatta!” While scarcely yet in its power perspective on the gigantic
canvas stands that infinitely heroic scene of one dying man stumbling out in the
snow that he might relieve his comrades of a dead weight. “I’m going outside for
a little while, you chaps!” said -Captain Oates, “I shan’t be long.” Not long—
dying!
How many heroic, how many pathetic, how many joyful scenes lie between
those two?
In so far as Life is Art and Art is Life, in just that measure is History at
once the story of Art and Life.
And here, in “The World’s Story,” we have history in prose, in poetry, in
painting—-history that can be seen and heard and felt; history to which one must
thrill as no mere imaginative story can have power of thrilling us!
Fourteen volumes of vivid life! Fourteen volumes of vibrant Art! Fourteen
volumes which are in themselves such a treasure-vault of inspiration, of education,
of stimulation, of cultural value as may justly lay claim to the title of a library in
itself.
What do YOU know of the magnificent epic of human story?
Will you not know more? Surely, SURELY, the fascination of these
volumes is irresistible to any civilised being?
From 3000 b.c. to a.d. 1914! What has mankind accomplished, sung, said,
painted, suffered ?
Can all this have no bearing on YOUR LIFE? 'Nolens-volcns, it has.
But if you know something of this wonderful world’s evolution from precedent to
precedent you may be able to APPLY some of the lessons painful experience has
taught humanity.
Else you cannot be “the heir of all the ages.” Else the world’s lessons are
lost upon you.
Lose no time ; you can secure these wonderful books by sending the coupon
now —TO-DAY! These wonderful books, 14 volumes, cost only £lO 10s. on terms.
Vital to All People in the Country.
There is one danger to which ALL country people are liable. Sickness and
accident while the doctor is many hours’ journey away—or is altogether out
of reach.
You who live in the Bush —what happens if .you fall sick, or your wife or kiddies
get ill or, even worse, have an accident —break a leg or arm? Do you know
what to do and how to do it? Or do you travel weary miles only to find that
the doctor has gone to another case the “other side of nowhere” and won’t be
back for hours? Meantime the wife or child is suffering. What do you do? What
can you do?
If your home contains a copy of the
“MODERN PHYSICIAN”
the evil effects of accident or sickness can be mitigated—you can relieve pain
at least until you CAN get the doctor or get the patient to a township hospital.
The “Modern Physician” is a work in 5 volumes, edited by Dr. Andrew Wilson,
F.R.S.E., F.L.S., etc., and compiled by experts—it tells you all the symptoms of
diseases and ailments, both adults’ and children’s, and tells you how to treat them.
TLese volumes are NOT intended to take the place of a doctor, they are to aid
you, teach you the right thing to do until the doctor arrives.
The “MODERN PHYSICIAN” is d guide to the attainment and preservation
of health. It includes complete descriptions of the causes, symptoms and cure of
diseases and ailments; the structure and functions of the human body. Sick
nursing and invalid cookery; Hygiene and the laws of Health and Development;
care of children and infants; Health and ailments of women ; First Aid, etc.
Everything is explained in clear language and easily understandable form; the
volumes are copiously illustrated throughout.
You should not be without the “Modern Physician” a day longer—it may mean
saving life, limbs or great suffering.
For a total sum of £5 ss. on monthly payments you can secure these life-saving
books Mail the coupon to-day.
Can You?
Have yon ever been in the awkward predicament of having to suddenly
stand on your feet to make a speech—not knowing one single thing you are going
to say? Do you “Er—li’m, er Ladies and Gentlemen, er,” and so stumble through
with beads of perspiration on your forehead and your knees feeling shaky under
you? Or do you stand up ready, with the words flowing easily and wittily from
your lips?
How many times have you had to address a hard-headed business meeting—
not to lecture, but with an impromptu speech, to urge a specific course of action?
There are a thousand and one occasions when the ability to make a good
speech means a lot. In business it will help a man to success, in politics it is
essential for success, in social life it means popularity.
Every man should be able to make a speech and make a good one, and
every man can learn how with the aid of “The Book of Public Speaking.” These
7 volumes contain all the finest speeches ever delivered. It contains, besides,
articles on—
HOW TO MAKE AN EFFECTIVE SPEECH. By the Rt. Hon. T. J. Macnamara, M.P.
THE ART OF ORATORY. By Sir Wm. Robertson Nicoll, LL. D.
THE ART OF LECTURING. By A. C. Benson, M.A., C.V.0., F.R.H.S.
HOW TO PREPARE AND DELIVER A SPEECH.
By Arthur Bourchier, M.A., the Actor-Manager.
AFTER-DINNER SPEAKING. By T. Lewis Griffiths (U.S.A. Consul-General).
THE CONDUCT OF, AND PROCEDURE AT, MEETINGS. By Albert Crew.
Each of whom is absolute master of his subject and famous for his speeches. All these
speeches, anecdotes and points about speechmaking are yours if you own the “Book of Public
Speaking.” It will enable you to rise to the occasion—ANY occasion—and acquit yourself well —
giving pleasure to others, swaying people by your will, influencing crowded audiences. These
volumes will tell you how to speak and what to say.
There is no need for you ever again to be nervous or awkward when called on for a
“few words.” Get the “Book of Public Speaking.” Now, send the coupon and start in to fit
yourself for the occasion which is bound to arise sooner or later when possibly your whole career
will depend on your ability to make a goood speech.
These books only cost £5 ss. on the pay as you read Standard way.
For Every Man in Business
There are always small points cropping up in every office, factory or shop;
difficult little problems of procedure, law, accountancy, sales, etc. Can you
settle all knotty points as they arise, or do you have to refer to Mr. So-and-So?
The Business Encyclopedia authoritatively explains every detail and operation
of all business from Ato Z. Authoritatively because it is written and compiled by
practical men who have made a big success of life and business.
The Business Encyclopedia contains articles by such men as
Sir Richard Burbridge Bart, Managing Director Harrods, Ltd.
Sir Thomas Dewar, Managing Director, John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.
H. G. Selfridge, founder of Selfridge & Co., Ltd.
J. Murray Allison, Advertising Manager, The Times.
W. Wentworth James, Advertising Manager, Remington Typewriters.
Lawrence R. Dicksee, M. Com.; F.C A., Professor of Accountancy—late
London University.
A. W. Gamage, Managing Director A. W- Gamage, Ltd.
Conrad P. Fry, Director of ,T. S. Fry & Son, Ltd.,
etc., etc.
These are but a few of the names of the world-known men who have contributed
to this wonderful Encyclopaedia.
Surely you can learn something from them—something which will be of use in
your business, something which will help you to find a better position if you are
an employee. You are not one of those men who “know it all”—you are prepared
to learn from whoever can teach you, and these big successful business men can
teach you lots of things.
The Business Encyclopedia is the only work of its kind ever published—it. is
complete—absolutely complete. There is no detail of business left out, and its
wonderful system of cross-reference enables you to find any given thing inside a few
moments. There are 12,000 referencs- Think how useful this would be to you—
you need never be in doubt about any point; these 9 volumes will always be there
to assist you and guide your judgment.
Nine volumes of the finest business information for the low sum of £6 65., paid in
monthly instalments.
Send the coupon now to-day and get these 9 wonderful volumes.
BuL. 620.
CUT OFF HERE AND SEND TO-DAY.
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO,,
The Rialto, Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Send me, all charges paid, one set of
If unsatisfactory I will return them at your expense, otherwise 1 will send £1 within jive
days and £1 per month until the total sum is paid.
NAME
ADDRESS


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Reclfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder ooop
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
$5
VS
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than the shillings you are
asked to pay. It is genuinely
welted —all "EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-day.
47/6 pair.
“EMBASSY” Shoes are
the Standard.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville.
LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Toowoomba.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
One of the most interesting entrants for
the National Hurdle is British Arch, lately pur-
chased by Leslie Stuart and transferred from Sydney
to Melbourne. The exact strength of this son of
Marble Arch is hard to judge. The year before last
he won a couple of hurdle races in Sydney and was
placed in two others, but his attempt to win over
the sticks at Williamstown was a failure. In
October last year he seemed of some importance
when he won the Waverley Handicap. A month later
he ran moderately in the Melbourne Cup, but was
close to Chrome and Two Blues at the finish of the
V.R.O. Handicap, which is the same distance as Die
Waverley at Ranidwick. S'o it looks as though l:j
mile is as far as British Arch cares to go on the
flat. All the same, he may be quite equal to three
miles over hurdles at Flemington, if jumping is as
much his game as it seemed to be 15 months ago.
Like Beltane, another hurdler with some flat-race
form to commend him, he had his beginning in
Maoriland.
* * * *
An incident on the Caulfield training
track the other morning should warn trainers and
owners of the unwisdom of giving a mount to a
jockey who has had a nasty spill earlier in the
day. When Wedderburn fell at a fence and broke
big neck the rider, A. Doy, was bound to be shaken:
but as there were no bones broken, and as the boy
professed to feel none the worse for the mishap, he
was presently allowed to ride another nag in work.
After which Doy’s nerves succumbed to the effects
of his fall off Wedderburn, and the doctor was
called to him. The fact is that a man, no matter
how fit he may be, who comes a severe cropper
will probably be quite unfit to ride satisfactorily
in another race the same day, especially a jumping-
race. Nevertheless, it frequently happens that a
mud-stained jockey, feeling not half as clear-headed
as he tries to think he is, takes the mount on a
horse that carries a lot of punters’ money. And
as a rule, he has made the matter rather worse
by having a drink to “pull him together.”
Bright Plume’s running in the hurdle race
at Moonee Valley was a matter for inquiry by the
stipendiary stewards, after the much-talked-of
animal had finished a neck behind the second. On
the face of things the zeal of the stipes was due
lather to the horse’s reputation, which may not be
well deserved, than to his performance in this event.
At the opening of the betting punters were disposed
to rush Plume, but he cased in the market and
started at seven to two. The race was a soft win
for Garvegh, who got a lead of 10 lengths while
the first and second favorites were lagging further
behind than Blight Plume. Nor did they ever over-
take the horse the stipes had got their eyes on.
Why was lie singled out for an inquiry? The explana-
tion of Cairns, the jockey, and Godby, the owner-
trainer, was accepted as satisfactory, but Bright
Plume’s price for the G. N. Hurdle was bound to
be shortened by the stipes’ action. It seemed a
fair thing, all the same, for Godby’s horse to be
ridden steadily, instead of being pushed hard to try
to overtake the runaway leader. He’s a young
jumper, and not one of the cast-iron sort.
Doiran, from South Aus., has turned up
in Melbourne once again with a view to the jump-
ing season. Last year he fell in both the National
at Flemington and the V.A.T.C. Australian Steeple-
chase. But in the previous year he was reckoned
by some people unlucky to lose the National owing
to a bit of a jostle at the last fence. Anyhow there
was a good deal of ground that Doiran might have
made up and didn’t, after taking the last fence, and
a month later, in the long steeplechase at Caulfield,
he tired to nothing at the finish. Perhaps he stays
better than he did, in which case Doiran is not too
old to be a possibility—a slight possibility.
* * * *
Although Lord Setay and Pistolarie, in
the same ownership, accepted for the City Handicap
at the Adelaide R.C. Meeting, the former was with-
drawn in favor of the Parkside Stakes at w.f.a.
The ancient Antonio gelding Anotto won the
handicap from the tiring Mareca, who found the
extra furlorg a bit far with her Goodwood penalty,
and Lord Sttay was two lengths behind King of
the Sea in the Stakes. Pistolarie, by the way, ran
third and first in the Goodwood of 'l7 and 'lB.
Molly’s Kobe was a very popular choice
for the Stradbroke Handicap at the Q.T.C. Autumn
Meeting—Ereanil being strongly fancied also. The
Queensland Derby winner Syce Lad, who had been
placed in this race when a two-year-old, however,
got the verdict by a long head from Sheila R.
* * * *
The Adelaide E.C. Birthday Cup, to be
run next Saturday, will include Alacrity, who won
last year with 6st. 121 b., but has to carry Bst. 101 b.
this year; Dependence, who has 31b. less than last
year ; and Wee Gun, the winner in 'lB, with 61b. more
on his back, which should not stop him.
* * * *
This year there will be a month and more
of burning interest in the V.R.C. Nationals before
they come on for decision. Weights have been issued
in advance of the June meeting at Flemington, and
the June meeting is to last two days, instead of one,
because the Prince is in Melbourne. Also the “no
penalty’’ stakes will be attractive, and nearly all, or
quite all, of the best jumpers will be having a go.
* * * *
After much thought, Onkaparinga (S.A.)
Racing Club has decided to spoil its old record of
using only one day in the year. Its Easter Monday
fixture has gradually been built up from a mere
picnic meeting to one of the most important in
the State; and leaving the course idle all the rest
of the year has at last been voted a pity. The
programme has just been issued for a second day.
As at Easter, the chief event is to be over jumps,
an October steeplechase.
* * * *
Died at Homebush. Sydney on May 20,
Frank Gaxieu, retired bookmaker and racehorse-
owner, who had been on the committee of Sydney
Tattersall’s Club for the past quarter of a century.
He used to make a double-hook, and boasted that
he had never been struck. For years a digger in
Victoria and M.L., lie gave up the pick for the
pencil after a chat with a friend and a look at his
book. His best horses were Kurile, by Carbine—
Venice, and a mare ca’led Confidence. Fucile was
once a big pot for a Melbourne Cup, but he broke
a blood-vessel, and that ended it. Gaxieu’s one
hobby of late years was to watch the interests of
Tattersall’s Club, and he attended there daily almost
to the end. Born in Corfu, he was of Maltese origin,
but was always ‘Frank the Greek” to the old-
timers.
With a thoughtfulness that deserved the
reward it reaped, Victoria’s Football League arranged
its holiday games so as not to clash with the “Royal
procession.” In the forenoon Richmond met ’Wood
on Richmond ground, while, after lunch, when Ed-
ward was supposed to have passed by, the ovals at
St. Hilda and South were occupied by cheering
crowds. Somewhere in the neighborhood of 30,000
persons tried to squeeze into the little Richmond
ground—and things gave way, first the inner fence,
then an overloaded verandah. Luckily no one was a
casualty. The play was gaudy, fast, willing and ex-
citing, right up to the end. It was goal for goal
and point for point right through, the unbeaten
yellow-and-blacks getting "home finally with 78 points
to ’Wood’s 71. Five of Richmond’s goals came from
the toe of Bayliss, an ex-Richmond junior, a good
mark, and about the surest kick in the nine clubs
to-day. In the afternoon ’Don downed the Saints by
63 to 54 ; and South walloped its old rivals, Carlton,
by 8 goals 10 behinds to 4 goals 15 behinds.
A huge crowd viewed this show, alternately cheered
by the Old Blues’ spectacular play and disgusted by
their painfully erratic kicking. They had for excuse
that their star forward was on the casualty list, but
a. team that depends on one man to get its goals
is liable to fall in. Carlton fell.
* *■ * *
Because of the lack of personal enmities,
inter-State football games are generally better spec-
tacles than club matches, and that in Melbourne on
Saturday was no exception. From start to finish the
play all round was better than first-class, speed,
cleverness, dash and marking being right up to
standard. Also the kicking, especially of the Crow-
eaters, was superb. Right through the two hours’
play a goal or so would give either side the lead, and
when the bell rang only five points separated them—-
South Aus., 10 goals 11 behinds; Vic., 9 goals 12
behinds. Old reliables Leahy, Treadrea and Mori-
arty played as well as in their younger years, while
in Dewar they have a long-distance hooter who can
hardly be matched in the Commonwealth. The
Vies, played strongly, and the only reason why
they were beaten on their own ground was that
they met a better team. The 29,943 who attended
seemed satisfied, anyhow, and could hardly regret
the £lBl6 they handed in to view the episode.
Before a crowd of 30,000 and the English
footballers, Eastern Suburbs put the kibosh on the
hitherto unbeaten Wests at the Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday. The scores, 18 points (4 tries
3 goals) to 14 (4 tries 1 goal), just about sum
up the relative merits of the teams. Sandy Pearce,
the Eastern hooker, decisively beat C. W. Prentice
for the ball ; and the Oriental back division worked
like a high-class engine and tackled like ferrets.
Bluey Watkins, the idol of the crowd, played the
best forward game on the ground, whilst Caples,
East’s stand-off half, outplayed and outgeneralled
Ward Prentice, his Western vis-a-vis, in every de-
partment of the game. Rex Norman at full-back was
sound, and Thumbling Wright on the right wing,
got moving whenever an opening offered. Rav
Norman and Gi ng-pr Hume at centre showed to
advantage, but Wally Messenger lacked confidence.
However, his kicking proved a big factor in winning
the game for the Seaside brigade. West’s forwards
weren’t clever or fast enough for Pearce Watkins
and co., nor did they win the ball for their backs.
McGowan at half played finely, but his work was
discounted by Ward Prentice, who could do nothing
right. Wall at full-back played poorly; his line
kicking and tackling were execrable. Collins and
Vest, the West wingers, might have done better if
they had been decently fed.
The other games provided no surprises. Balmain
downed Glebe bv 11 points to 8. Norths skittled
Annandale by 28 to nil, Horder contributing 10
points. Newtown exterminated ’Varsity by 30
points to 4. Souths had the'bye, and took a trip
to the country for the week-end.
Next Saturday the English Northern Union
Rugby footballers are to engage Sydney’s best League
thirteen. The old bicycle track has been torn up
and the fence enclosing the playing area has been
moved some 20 feet inward. Which means that
10,000 extra spectators can be accommodated. The
Pommy forwards, besides being fast, are a much
heavier lot than ours—an important factor in winning
the ball from the scrum. The visiting backs how-
ever, are on the light
side. Many will dis-
agree with the exclu-
sion of “Pony” Hallo-
way from the Sydney
team. He has played
head and shoulders
above any other
scrum-half this season.
There are really only
two young players in
the local bunch. V.
Lawrence, the South
Sydney centre three-
quarter, who last year
was playing second-
grade, and H. Caples,
the Eastern Suburbs
star. One of the most
popular selections is
that of Sandy Pearce
a s centre-forward.
Sandy has repped
every year but last
year since 1907.
McGowan as half will
be called on to face a
stiff proposition in the
English vanguard.
HAROLD
WAGSTAFFE,
captain of the visit-
ing English ( N.U.)
footballers.
The fifth round of Sydney Rugby Union
football produced two surprises —the defeat of Easts
by Manly, after the former had drawn with ’Varsity,
and Newtown’s win over Wests. ’Varsity now head
the competition. Mosman, though licked by 24-11,
played a good game against the leaders, the ’Varsity
quarter-line alone being superior. The brothers
llodgins were always prominent for Mosman, and
the forwards more than held their own against the
Uni. pack, Oatley and Garnsey always being in evi-
dence. Lawton, the winner’s five-eighth, was most
elusive, and his kicking has supplied a long-felt
want; Morgan also answered every question. Easts
put a strong team in the field against Manly, but
W'ere well walloped by 22—5. The Villagers are an
even lot, admirably led. Scott was most luminous
for Newtown against Wests —he scored 14 points
for his side (winners by a bare two points) and
could do nothing wrong. In this game the umpire
was the hardest-worked man on the field. Kuehanan
and Hunt of Glebe-Balmain showed to advantage
against Norths, and Mayne’s strong running gave
him two tries. For Norths Humphries played solidly,
although his backs were no match for the opposition ;
Cooney, however, was always there or thereabouts.
Leonard and Wilson were prominent among a fair
lot of forwards.
Tlie Maoriland Union team will soon be
in Sydney with their hale a which so intrigued the
Prince of Smiles. They will worry the selectors
on this side, more especially in the matter of the
forwards. The best of our present ones are a
poor lot. It will be hard also to pick the backs,
but for the opposite reason—there is so much talent
available. Beith, of Easts, is sure of the position
at full-back; Farquhar’s as right and Mayne’s as
left wing threequarters, should be certainties. And
then there are Wallace. Cooney, Wogan, Buchanan,
Hodgins, Mingay, A. Walker, Humphries and A.
Lawton.
* * * *
N.S.W. soccer team clambered all over
Queensland at Brisbane on Saturday. A. Doerner
(Eastern Suburbs) —a rattling good forward—kicked
three of N.S.W.’s five goals. The Northerners never
found the net once.
Melbourne ’Varsity inter-collegiate cham-
pionships brought to the front a new topnotcher
in 17-year-old R. L. Almond (Ormond), who took
the 100yds. (10 4-ssec.) and the 220yds. (23 3-ssec.)
and finished second in long jump (19ft. 9in.) and
120yds. hurdles. Ormond annexed the champion-
ship with 72 points, followed by Trinity (54)
Queen’s (28), and New (16).
* * * *
Sydney had an overwhelming victory in
the inter-’Varsity championships at Sydnev' last
week, winning eight events to Melbourne’s two On
points Sydney amassed 21, Melbourne nine and Bris-
bane ml. Jack Leadley (Sydney) won the lOOvds.
(10 2-ssec.) and 220yds. (22 3-ssec.—a record),
and W. Hutton (Sydney) took the 440yds. (50
4-ssec.). W. E. Macmillan (Melbourne) romped
home in the mile (4min. .37 4-ssec.—l l-ssee.
better than record), and was second to S J
Young (Sydney) in the lialf-mile (2min. 5 2-ssec.)!
The high jump was a Harbison family affair in
winch J.K. (Sydney) won with sft. 9fin. from H.W
(Melbourne) sft. Bin.
* * * *
One of the Olympic games athletes is a
sexagenarian. This is Dr. Graeme Hammond, who
will captain the American fencing team Born
in 1858, he was only beaten in the Stockholm
fencing bouts eight years ago at the finish of a
competition in which such cracks as Montgomerie
and Amphlett competed.
* * * *
Sid Godfrey, who met Macario at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, has, perhaps, as solid
a punch in either hand as any boy of his weight
who ever entered a ring. Yet it took him eight
rounds to out the Filipino—a considerable tribute
to the latter’s pluck. Godfrey missed the alien a
good times , but there were other occasions
on which he got home at full pressure. Not till
the fifth round, when he started bombarding the
visitor’s waist-line, did the assailed party begin to
look really harassed. He was worn down in fairly
quick order after that, and a couple of sledge-
hammer right-and-left jolts put the ultimate finish
on him.
* * * *
The offer of £45.000 for another match in
London between Carpentier and Beckett vividly
illustrates the wild prize-fight boom that is now
raging in England. Neither is a champion in the
true sense of the word, and at their last meeting
the Frenchman won in a round. Before the war
people talked breathlessly of the £20,000 which
was put up for the Johnson-Jeffries fight; and in
1008 the comparatively humble purse offered by
Hugh D. Mclntosh for the Burns affair constituted
the world’s record. Of course, the spending value
of the paper money in which the pugs now receive
payment is about half that of the gold which
they could claim and get if they wished in the
days before civilisation went mad. Yet the fact
remains that the business of stoush has somehow
got an incredible distance from the state of things
which prevailed in 1855 when James Kelly and
Jonathan Smith fought just outside 'Melbourne,
with bare knuckles, for six hours 15min. for the
sum of £2 ss.
The latest development of the sculling row
is that Paddon, going on the strict letter of the
rules and his suspicion that Felton and Barry
have not adhered to it, claims the world’s champion-
ship. So that there are now in a sense two cham-
pions, as at various times in the past there have
been two Popes, and no means of definitely estab-
lishing which is the pretender and which the
genuine article. The way the general public, which
lias no taste for hair-splitting, looks at the matter
is that if—as, in fact, happened—Paddon was able
to restrain himself from going after Barry and the
championship during the past five years, when he
might have had a free passage to England, his
clothing and keep and a minimum wage of
£2 2s. per week, then to wait another
few weeks till the winner of the Felton-Barrv
match is ready for him should represent no great
hardship. Neither Felton nor Barry is likely to
shirk a match with Paddon in Australia, now that
the sculling boom has been got fairly’ going; but
Paddon may easily manoeuvre himself into a posi-
tion which will make it difficult, if not impossible,
for the of the match to meet him.
Back-markers did well in Sydney cycling
road-races on Saturday. J. Dent (Petersham) won
over, five miles from scratch in 13min. ssec.; and
Mick Little (Dulwich Hill) was first from scratch
oyer eight miles of dust in 21min. 52 3-ssec. The
riding was as good as the roads were rotten.
» * * »
The veteran F. M. B. Fisher, the ex-
Maoriland M.P., has surprised his warmest admirers
by winning the Singles and the Doubles (with R.
Lycett) in the recent Surrey championships; aid
lus defeat of men like Ritchie, F. G. Lowe and
Mavrogordato in the Singles looks ominous for
Britain’s chances in the next Davis Cup. After the
reliable Kingscote, Lowe and Mavrogordato are about
Britain’s next best, and on their present form they
cannot hope to beat any of a trio of Yankees—
Johnston, Tilden and Williams—or the brilliant
I 1 rench pair, Gobert and Laurentz. The fact that
they ale talking of selecting the ancient Roper Bar-
rett as Kingscote’s partner in the doubles shows a
lack of youthful talent in the British Isles. Roper
Barrett is older and more experienced than our Nor-
man Brookes. He appeared for J. Bull in the
first Davis Cup battle.
Somebody in England questions the sport-
ing right of R. Lycett to play for England in Davis
Cup matches, on the ground that he learned the
game in Australia and is likely to return there.
But as a native of England young Lycett must be
entitled to play champion tennis for his
birthland as an Australian cricketer, born in Eng-
land, is entitled to go there at any time and play
for his native county. In the old days of Spofforth,
Murdoch and
Boyle a first-class
Australian cr i ck-
ete r, Midwinter,
played against
them in England.
Mid. was a Glou-
cestershire small
boy when his
parents took him
off to Australia, so
it came to pass
that the Glouces-
tershire county
club bought his
services after he
had learned hi s
cricket under the
Southern Cross.
B. CRONOW, the
English goal-
kicker, with the
N.U. team
now in
Sydney.
‘Plum” Warner, who was turned down as
physically not fit enough to go into the firing-line,
has already begun making centuries this cricket
season in England. Yet there were scores of men
doing useful work on every mile of the Western
Front who couldn’t have stood up to such a test to
save their lives. A queer feature of the late war
was the abundance of apparently-hefty sportsmen
who were kept on home service and the equal abun-
dance of physical ruins—to be seen not only in
Labor Corps and the A.S.C., but in crack battalions
and batteries-—who were considered sufficiently lusty
to personally engage the Boche.
In the circumstances the perturbation of London
Daily Chronicle is understandable at the rumor
that Australia will only play men who have actually
fought in the war. “If the M.C.C. makes a similar
decision,” remarked the Chronicle last week, “the
British team will be vastly different.” Of course
no such idea was entertained in Australia, one good
reason being that several of the crack soldier-
cricketers do not intend to play regularly again.
Notably, Gregory, who, as a bowler, a punishing
bat and a wizard in the slips, is as remarkable as
anything that the Commonwealth has produced in
a generation. However, some of the men who did
not reach the firing-line might well be left out of
an Australian test XI on other grounds. Bardslev,
for example. It would be a shame to ask the public
to pay double entrance fees to watch one of his
efficient yet funereal exhibitions.
COMIN’ HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Night coming on fast in his jacket of grey
Takes the lead at the turn and is cantering in,
While the race-train creeps home at the close of the
day,
yhike a weary old serpent—the serpent of sin.
(They tell me that Connolly had a big win!)
The faces are wan in the wintery light,
The hopes of the heart are as dust in the breeze.
(Why, blimc, Frank Dempsey, ’e said it teas right!)
Or the will-o’-the-wisp which eternally flees.
(These joke s are the things that a stipe never
sees.)
In a far, twinkling cluster the lights of the town
'(They backed it all right, but it isn’t the stuff!)
Appear on the fringe of the sk3’’s purple gown,
(My oath, I should reckon that mob is too rough!)
A sleeper’s deep breath is the sad engine’s puff.
With a scream like the damned through the stations
we flee
Down the silvery ribbons of shivering steel—
(The last jack-pot, blokes, and the cards are with
me !)
The prodigal soils hurry home to their veal.
(Here, shake it up, Jim; for the love of Mike—
deal!)
VICTORIA.
CUTIIBERT CUTPURSE.


TOO OLD AT FORTY? NO!
If you are, it is your own fault. For that matter, if you let
yourself run to fat—let your muscles grow flabby from disuse —
let vour energy and vitality run down for want of proper exercise,
you will feel too old at 30. A man is only as old as he feels.
Let me keep you young!
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will keep you in that happy condition of “feeling fit” —
bursting with energy —and able to stand fatigue and con-
tinuous strain both in business and the field of sport. It
will give you the clear eye and springy step, the quick,
graceful carriage that will mark you as a man to be
reckoned with.
My instructions are clear and concise, and a few minutes
practice every day will keep you young and in robust
health.
Write your name and address across this advertisement and
send it to me with three stamps to cover postage, and I
will send you a copy of my interesting booklet, Health
and Strength from Self-Culture,” which tells all about my
methods, fees, etc.
&
REG. L.(wß AKER,
Specialist in
Physical Culture,
274 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the W orl d*
The Secret of Easy Shaving
Do you want quick, easy,
pleasant shaves? Do you
want to keep your face
in the pink of condition,
free from pimples, in-
growing hairs or cuts?
Then Sot vour Razor on
a PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
be the same—a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
TRY THE PERFORATED HONE
If it doesn't make your razor shave to
your satisfaction, return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 5/0 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11 123 Sussex Street,Sydney.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
• A
9.
*
:*v
• •■."
mm
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines,etc.
Any size hole up Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
to ly-i in. in
f6in. plate.
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WARES —Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND —Blair, Reed & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
MALAY STATES, JAVA —Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Magnesia
for lndigesfion.
The “High Cost of Clothes”
Need Not Worry
YOU.
You need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes out of keeping
with your income, since you can,
in actual fact, still obtain GOOD
Clothes to Order at Moderate Cost.
“ Lincoln-Stuart ”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED —at prices
to suit any pocket.
Featured in our present Display of
Suitings for Autumn is a Splendid
Selection of
All-Wool
Australian
Tweeds.
These Textures in Quality and Design
have nothing to lose by comparison
with materials made abroad, and it is
only by reason of the fact that they
have been made in Australia that we
are able to quote them' in Honestly-
made Suits to order at prices from
£4/10/- to £B/15/-
At these Figures they,»represent truth-
fully the Best-Suit Investment in Aus-
tralia to-day. Don’t place that new-
suit order till vou’ve seen samples of
our ALL-WOOL, AUSTRALIAN-
MADE Materials.
PATTERNSARE POST FREE.
Lincoln,
Stuart 8 Co.
PTY.
LTD.,
“ Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders St, Melbourne.


MARABOUT
CAPES & RUFFLES
Very fashionable this Season are
Ruffles and Capes of Marabout,
favoured both for day and evening
wear. Farmer’s offers a wide choice.
IR i. —Charming Feather Ruffles and
Boas, in colors white and black
included. Prices .... 29/6 to £9/9/-
IR2—Very becoming Capes in Mar-
about, in shapes completely covering
the shoulders and coming well down in
front. Colors dark brown, black,
nigger; s!lk ined. Price 45/-
IR3 —Colkr Capes in Marabout, form-
ing a square effect down front; lined
silk; finished satin bow. Price, 37/6
Fur Salon, First Floor, Pitt Street.
We Pay
Carriage
FARMER’S
:: SYDNEY ::
ft
n
JUS
Wise women realise that there is
proportionately more value in the
large bottles of
BONNI
BONNINGTONS
BONNI
mjt
NNII'IUO
IHISh
Bt5H
a,-;
IRISH MOSS
IRISH MUSS
UORC
3?53335»
FOR COUGHS AND COLDS.
Now that so many colds are going about—
a " tr . Ke bottle of Bonnington’s may provide
sufficient doses to prevent Colds, Influenza,
Coughs, Bronchitis, Asthma, and Chest com
plaints, affecting the whole of your
S. family. Sold everywhere.
BA. 21.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The. morning of Landing Day was blan-
keted in fog. Even when the belated war-
ships and the royal yacht came up the bay
it was through wreaths of mist, with blue
sky and blue sea showing between. In the
afternoon the sun broke through and made
a great picture of the aircraft. The aero-
planes released flocks of pigeons; the birds
looked like pieces of silk fluttering down
the air. Night and the illuminations were
dreamlike. Fog muffled all sounds, and
the crowds moved about like ghosts. The
blaze of the electrics was softened to one
wide, gentle glow, and all the world seemed
to have its goloshes on.
At the Government House ball on the
night of the landing the Prince disdained
the dais and came down into midstream to
shake hands with each guest in the long,
single-file parade. lie wore ordinary even-
ing dress with an astonishingly high collar
and used his left and right hand alternately.
Ihe stout, nervous matrons were shaken off
politely with the left; pretty girls and Dig-
gers got his right hand always. lie fre-
quently held up the procession for a yarn
with a Digger.
After the reception the inevitable lancers
were got through. The Prince threw him-
self on the mercy of his partner and begged
in a stage whisper, “What next?” Billy
Hughes danced with Mrs. Pearce and per-
sisted in. making a curtsey whenever his
partner did. That ordeal over, the orches-
tra sighed and drifted into a hesitation
waltz.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine’s daughter danced
the first waltz with the man of the
hour. She was a self-possessed young per-
son in blue and white and silver. The
Prince’s partners were carefully pushed into
the front line ready to be asked to dance. It
was like a partridge drive. The Prince
spotted his bird, then made a little dive and
bow: “Will you dance with me?” There
were no refusals. Aide Duncan’s Sydney
bride had the second engagement. She was a
clingsome figure in cherry pink. The Prince
jazzed with great vigor and went on dancing
till a late hour. The elders grew serious
about the supper question. Supper could
not begin without him, and he seeemd satis-
fied to merely take his partners up to the
buffet for a drink. He was enjoying his
freedom whilst he could.
The crowd was so great that the Very
Best frocks might have been abo. blankets
for all one knew. Lady Helen wore so many
diamonds that they had a glassy effect. She
was draped regally in white and silver bro-
cade. The Irvine dame was wrapped in an
astonishing blue curtain embroidered in pink
roses. _ The G.-G. looked happy hurrying
about in the freedom of ordinary evening
dress. The drawing-rooms were all open,
but were mostly deserted, the terrace and
corridors being favored by the youngsters.
There were not many present, as the old
brigade had to be asked first; the second
ball, on June 4, will give the juniors their
chance.
Senator “Jack” Grant came in an alarm-
ing yellow tie which livened up his grey
morning suit. He seemed pleased with it.
The Prince has set a faster jazzing pace;
apparently Melbourne has been taking it
languidly.
After the belated supper—an elaborate
spread of food and drink in the State ban-
quet hall—the elders drifted off to their cars
in the fog, and the young people took posses-
sion of the ballroom and danced till the early
hours.' The Prince tried once to bolt. He
slipped into the lounge to pick out a part-
ner not scheduled in his official programme.
Two large aides frowned and hopped out
after the truant. He was gently yarded
back into the whirl. By the expression on
his face, the social shepherds did not get
off scot-free. The royal nose was not built
of that pugilistic type for nothing.
Courteney Dix’s daughter Gertrude had
two dances with the Prince at the G.-G.’s
ball, and the smile is with her still. Gwenda
Grimwade feels that her honors are equal to
Gertie’s. She had only one dance; but that
time the royal youth demanded an encore
and still another.
In Federal Government House there is a
little staircase that leads in a roundabout
way from the ballroom to the musicians’
gallery. The lights on these stairs got des-
perately out of order in the late-early hours
of the Prince’s dance, and Miss Toorak and
the Navy had to look into the matter re-
peatedly.
The Prince had an evening at Federal
Parliament House. He arrived about seven
and was immediately whisked away by
Prime Minister Hughes to collect a couple
of addresses before tackling a oig spread in
the Queen’s Hall. The whole business was
fraught with terror for the nervous young
man, and the first smile broke through the
alarm on his face when the magnesium smoke
of the Senate flashlight started the ladies
coughing aloft. Headed for dinner, he was
more himself, and with the ebb of the soup
he recovered large quantities of his royal
calm. The tables were trimmed with the
Wales colors, purple and yellow, and Aus-
tralia and the Southern Cross were also
introduced into the decorative scheme.
Parliament gave its Prince party in the
Library and Museum on Friday. The guests
shed their wraps among the mammoths and
stuffed birds, and were then moved on to
wait in the picture galleries. Someone with
a big voice announced theatrically: “The
Prince approaches! The streets are densely
packed and the progress is slow. The
Prince _ will receive in the reading-rooms
and will say a few words to the people.”
Then began a surging journey down stair-
ways and round corridors. Most of the
guests got back with their lives, but the
flimsily-dressed women were like distracted
hens. Tulle and feathers were stripped
from the saving draperies of .strong bro-
cades ; fans —the precious three-ostricli
feathers of the moment —were smashed ; hair
was wrenched from tidying hair-nets, and
something like a panic left dozens of women
fainting on. the shoulders of their escorts.
Cars were in a double queue right up to
the gaol (the entrance was from Russell-
street), and the placid Chinese and
Afghans crowded round and peered into the
motors. Batches of hysterical women and
sulky men wheeled for home in the early
ho,ms when they had ordered their cars for
( The dressing was gorgeous. Mrs. Mt.
Schank Clarke—who has been told she re-
sembles Queen Mary—wore the lioyal coif-
fure under a tiara and a dress of black chiffon
with a hatful of diamonds on her neck.
Lieut.-Gov. Madden’s widow was a quiet
little bit of grandeur in black and diamonds.
Mrs. Granville Ryrie wore brocade. The
Admiral wore a weary air. A magnificent
cleric appeared in purple cloth and gaiters.
General Hoad’s widow was in black and dia-
monds, and carried a silver-and-ebony stick.
Mrs. Cabena kept to diamond-sparkled black.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes showed up her vivid
Titian hair with white. Mrs. Donald Mae-
kinnon got into pink satin and gold shoes,
and her daughter hit up the color-scheme
with vivid blue brocade.
Rehearsals were all the rage for a fort-
night before the arrival of H.R.11. In a
St. Kilda household there was quite a pic-
turesque performance in which John Henry,
the second-eldest son, wearing his mother’s
tiara, represented H.R.H., while mamma
and two daughters were carefully put
through the business of being “presented”
by a hired master of ceremonies, a teacher
of dancing reputed to be well up in all
matters of Court etiquette. At one stage
the irate mother boxed Prince Edward’s
ears for his dilatory impersonation. An
unexpected joy may attach to the royal visit
if by any chance mamma forgets herself and
proceeds to correct the real Mackay in the
same fashion.
The. Rose Society decorated the table for
the Prince’s afternoon-tea at the special Agri-
cultural Show. Some careful worker out-
lined the whole of the pattern of the damask
with rosebuds—and then 11.R.H. cut out
the tea-party ! •
Mrs. Leslie Stuart hosteased a gay jazz at
Logan House on Thursday night for the naval
visitors. A glorious rumor circulated that
the Princeling would drop in at midnight.
But the girls powdered their noses in vain.
The Mayoral Ball on Saturday night was
a joyful scrum. Guests were admitted as
early as 6.80 to roam about and admire the
decorations. The great crowd out in the
street wanted to come in also, and there
were some angry mutterings. After the
arrival of the Prince the big outer doors
had to be closed, or the whole of Melbourne
would have surged in after him and taken
the place by storm. Inside, things were
just as crazy, the only difference being that
the invited mob were gorgeously dressed.
They surged and scrambled upstairs and
down and bumped and jostled in an attempt
to dance. A little green gate in a corridor
was almost captured ; it was through this
that the Prince and his party drifted to
supper.
The Prince shook hands with the women
and gave the men a nod. The girls are crazy
about the way he holds their hands all the
time they curtsey. The poor dears stay
down in an. adoring attitude as long as pos-
sible. After supper he made a solemn pro-
gress round the room and departed. The
G.-G. and Lady Helen backed him up in
the procession and the large retinue fol-
lowed.
Mrs. Stein was gorgeously arrayed in sil-
ver - and ivory brocade that started at the
waist and dwindled off into a train. Ostrich
feathers perked out all over the bunched
draperies, and she carried three silver plumes
in the middle of the bouquet. A brace of
small Stein daughters were presented to the
Prince and then sent home to bed.
The tragedy of the ball was that the debs,
had to dance before the Prince arrived.
However, he did not dance at all, so all
hopes were equally dashed. The over-
worked young man had attended two dinners
before he reached the ballroom, and the
crowd had closed in and wearied him.
The decorations were very Australian.
1 osts and pillars were turned into gum-
trees with stringy-bark and gum branches.
Mosses and native shrubs were banked
round the balconies, and there was a real
bush scent from crushed bark and some
pungent scrub.
In the gorgeous sunshine of Sunday our
young visitor motored to Sassafras. At
10 a.m. a procession of hundreds of cars
went uir, taking visitors from the Renown
and other ships. To Sassafras the road
winds through the mountains, revealing from
ie T , va^e y a l° n 8 series of gorgeous views
ot h ern Tree Gully. When the motors were
done with the Prince got a saddle-hack and
rode with Priminister Hughes through the
gullies, cool shadowy places among tall tim-
ber and full of ferns, mosses and birds. The
locals got him to plant a tree in the long
soldiers’ avenue. His host gave him billy tea
at his bush hut, and then motored him back
to Melbourne.
Adelaide’s week:—
Passed out in Sydney last week, one of the
wittiest of men, Gordon Simpson, who for many
years practised law in Adelaide and helped to
brighten the social whirl. lie served through the
war in the ranks, and the hardships, no doubt,
hastened his end. lie was a nephew of Mrs.
Humphrey Marten.
There has been a lull in festivities this week:
hostesses are in Melbourne, or reserving their forces
for tile royal visit. Mrs. R. 11, Lathlean gave a
cheery coming-out dance for daughter Lois and
young Jean Hart at Prospect, the guests being
as young and festive as the hostesses. A particu-
larly happy dance was given on May 28 at Osborne
Hall, the Misses Brown, who have taught several
generations at the Wilderness School, Medindie,
entertaining their past and present pupils.
The Palais de Danse is going in for Thursday
carnivals. This week “The Allies” was the title of
the revel. Some of the costumes were beautiful
and their wearers charming, but who told the girl
who came in bathers that her figure warranted such
daring?
Amy Evans and Frazer Gange have been delight-
ing audiences at the Town Hall. They are accom-
panied by Harald Elvins, and assisted by Cecil
Parkes, who has reached the age when he might give
up velvet knickers and white silk shirt.
A number of practical women are showing their
loyalty to young Wales by preparing a clubhouse
for the use of the sailors while the Renown is in
port. Instead of wandering aimlessly round the
streets they can drop into a cheery room where
good meals are provided free, with music, good
fellowship and the care of the women of the Cheer-
Up Society thrown in. There are 1000 plum pud-
dings to be cooked, and already the workers are
deep in the job of. making 48 a day.
Mrs.. W. Todd, shown in the adjoining
photo, is probably the oldest woman organ-
is t in Australia.
She had half a cen-
tury at the organ of
St. Paul’s Church of
England at Linton :
she took over the
job as a mite of 11,
and continued with
few breaks right
through her ma r-
ried life until her
retirement the other
day. The good lady
is now the head of
a lar g e musical
family, one of which
is a promising
singer, while four or
five others in addi-
tion to dad help
to give body and
soul to Linton’s fine town band.
There are two engagements in the Kin-
sella family of S taw ell. Both girls went
to Europe in 1915 to give a hand in the
Great War, one as a V.A.. the other with
a Comforts Fund. Now Emily is to marry
Arthur Irvine, brother of political Hans, and
kin to a title or two in the peerage. Sister
Eileen is promised to Captain Martin Cahill,
of our army, and of StaweH, too. He has a
Military Cross.
Sam McCulloch’s second chick by his first
wife (she was a Miss Wagner) has just
cabled that she has been made one with her
cousin, Major Hammans.
Poet Bernard O’Dowd’s fourth son, Amer-
gin Oisin, is still collecting honors. When
he completed his third-year Arts at the
Uni. before he was 19, he was cited as
a record-breaker. Last December he took
the Law Degree, and the latest results show
he has secured final honors in Law at the
March exam. And still barely 21.
Sheepman Turner Shaw, of Camperdown,
who is in the same class as "YVingen”
Abbott as a polite writer of political letters
to the daily press, has bought himself a
town house at Sandringham. It is near
Rickett’s Point, and has a nice room over-
looking the sea, where Mr. Shaw may think
up further sound conservative reasons for
keeping the present in the past and the
future well on into the next century.
“Bulldog” Tom Roberts has gone to Tas-
mania to rest. He knows the fascinating
dreaminess of the island; he spent his
honeymoon there.
The officers on the Renown have a busy
time sorting parcels—mostly ilowers, photo-
graphs and sentimental notes. All the
sweet young things who have had a smile at
a ball or reception are daydreaming.
Between the soup and the savory at the
Federal Government’s banquet the royal
guest had a try at host Billy’s ear-trumpet.
“The first Australian conductor at Covent
Garden.” Aylmer Buesst, the young Digger
of the picture, has that distinction. He left
engagements as a
conductor in Eng-
land to go to the
war and be “Ser-
geant Poppy” to the
other Diggers; and
now the war is over
he has picked up the
old threads and is
going forward to
greater triumphs.
There is a saying in
the musical world
that a man must be
40 to be a conductor;
and “Poppy” Buesst
is only in the early
30's. But he has the
benefit of a musical
ancestry. He is
the grandson of the
late Mrs. Pett, well known in the Austra-
lian musical world ; his mother is a talented
pianist; and dad —a manufacturer, who
adopted Australia in his boyhood and whose
foreign-sounding name has come down
through many generations of Staffordshire
Britishers—was a well-known choirmaster
and tenor. The son finished his musical edu-
cation at Brussels and Leipzig. “Samson
and Delilah” was the opera he conducted at
Covent Garden ; and previously he had con-
ducted at the Beecham revival of Wagner in
“The Meistersingers.” Young Aylmer has a
small daughter, Isolde, who is leaving with
her grandmother for England.
Military officialdom has done its best to
snub Australia’s citizen-soldier Monash dur-
ing the Prince’s Melbourne visit, and con-
trived to cut him out of most things.
Melbourne pressmen enjoyed a smoke and
a drink with visiting scribes at the Grand
Hotel on Saturday night, and the Prince
popped in for a hurried word before joining
the two-steppers at the Town Hall. The
show was enlivened by song, music and
story; but interest centred in speeches by
Hughes and Editors Cunningham, Schuler
and Innes, and by Keith Murdoch, who is
alleged to have slain lan Hamilton’s reputa-
tion. . Hughes was humorous, Innes pleasing,
Cunningham and Schuler dull, and Murdoch
egotistical.
Midshipman Geoffrey Carter, of the Re-
nown, was welcomed home with food and
wine .at Grevi lie’s Hotel last week. State
Premier Lawson, Peacock, and various politi-
cal notables showered the blushing youth
with good wishes.
Brendon Doyle, chief of railway telegraphs
for 15 years, has been forced to retire, at a
comparatively youthful age, owing to a
breakdown in health. In spite of his strenu-
ous job, Bren, managed to devote much time
to literature and art. He was an enthusi-
astic supporter of the Repertory Theatre,
and as an amateur did good work in many
parts under Gregan McMahon. His stage
name was F. B. Reeve. He frequently lec-
tured, too, before the highbrows of the Shak-
spearean Society, and the Dickens Fellow-
ship also enjoyed his learning.
The late Bob Power’s huge, gloomy, brick-
and-bluestone stables at Toorak, where many
horses have rested from their track labors
during the several decades of their owner’s
turf activity, are undergoing a transition.
Those who saw workmen commencing to pick
holes in the fabric naturally thought the
white elephant was about to have its bones
sorted out and sold as second-hand material.
Instead, with a sweet little gable inserted
here, a neat portico there, and up-to-date
orioles and casements dotted over the build-
ing, the place has been miraculously trans-
formed into a “palatial modern mansion.”
Presently some wealthy Toorakite will have
a. grand piano in what used to be the prads’
dining-room, and the missas will be doing her
toupet in the hayloft.


%
. \N\v
V'\w
u'nauu//////fi
'm-
V/a
#//
sy/;
H
MM
rm^»))i } yy ~f\
I
%
JS
Q
H
i»
»
&.•:
?y/v
s^/y
vv
X -PH
S 3
1
'//
£
V/
»* .♦
♦.«
♦ * <
y;
:
i
m
V&ss/s/ASSSSM
WMi
s/
m
m
&
x '
#"
CD
\\V
Si
m
.pi)
i
V\Vv
1
STA
,ii i <1 1 1 .»
&x
»
1
y y
«
\ij»asMa
; \ \ \ . r.• ifrf i•
y ;
. -
■,<\mw
“Fifteen
>1 Genuine
Post War Model.
AR superiority does not lie merely in
beauty of line. To buy a car for its
fine appearance is a mistake that has
often been made in the past. Now,
however, it is realised that TRUE, car
superiority” lies deeper and is to be found in
the perfection contained in the mechanical
construction. It is because of this fact tnat
the “Wolseley” immediately takes foremost
place amongst the many cars offered to the
public.
It embodies the perfect construction which stands for absolute
dependability, durability and safe and powerful service, and
yet it combines such elegance and beauty of appearance that
ezch and every purchaser secures complete satisfaction from
every point of view.
The “Wolseley” Fifteen stands unexcelled in hill-climbing
ability, in riding comfort, in speed and in flexibility. Its
complete weight is under 23cwt. Taken from the stripped
chassis weight of 15cwt. and brake-horsepower of 4j h.p.
the power-weight ratio equals 3 h.p. to the cwt.
Full Information Respecting the “Wolseley”
Post-War Model “Fifteen” on request.
REPRESENTATIVES:
VICTORIA.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., 136-138
Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., 64 Hindley
Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., 105 Macquarie Street,
Hobart.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
THE ARMSTRONG MOTOR &
CYCLE AGENCY, LTD., Hay
Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland.
INGLIS BROS., Wellington.
BETT & BAYLY, Palmerston North.
TODD BROS., LTD., Christchurch.
TODD BROS., LTD., Dunedin.
WINTRINGHAM & MITCHELL,
Blenheim.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LTD.,
Head Office for Australia:
125 William Street, Melbourne.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.
Works:
Adderley Park, Birmingham, England


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsierk
<-HAMPAGNt
Ctorteslleidsiecfc
Reims
%y) >*»**'
sgnßsgrg2^
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
“Join the 'National Roads Associa-
tion ( N.S.W.)”
FOR YOUR FORD.
Endorsement of the L. and R.
Auxiliary Oiler as a valuable fitment
to a Ford Car by one owner would
prove nothing.
Endorsement by one hundred owners
would prove little.
But when thousands of Ford owners
throughout Australia consider this
patent saves their Connecting-rod
Bushes, and Reduces their Lubricating
Oil Bills, surely it is worth your
knowing more about it.
Why not write us to-day for fuller
particulars?
Your local garageman will also tell
you of its utility.
WHOLESALE ONTA’.
BennettS Barke'l Limited
“The Traders’ Service House,”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
m
Every pair of Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves is backed by a
rigid guarantee which says
that if the finger tips wear
through before the gloves
have been washed or have
given reasonable wear, the
gloves will be replaced free
of charge.
Try a pair and get extra wear
s/
X
Enter a Princely Era.
The time is now come when, by a
specialised knowledge of the figure
feminine and of the elothes-making
art, Shave’s can make the most
perfect-fitting Gowns and Tailor
Suits without fittings. To those at
a distance it is a decided boon.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETER
David
Jones
Calalegue
There is a mild frenzy raging in Sydney
social circles in connection with the ap-
proaching festivities. The big Town Hall
ball is designed to placate the suburbs and
the politicians, and none of the usual Gov-
ernment House frequenters want to be seen
at it. (It should be understood that the
social climbers do not regard these affairs
as so many opportunities of paying then-
respects to royalty, but merely as public indi-
cators of their status in the world -o<!
fashion.) But the two small rooms where
dancing occurs at Government House are
incapable of holding a fifth of the hetero-
geneous crowd which now has the entree to
the place, while the supper-room couldn’t
accommodate a twentieth. Hence, many
who consider that they have a prescriptive
and every other sort of right to attend the
more intimate vice-regal shows have been
outraged by receiving invitations to the
entertainment for the lioi polloi. Old and
respected families, the members of which
have possessed money for as much as three
generations, point bitterly to the fact that
they have been passed over in favor of up-
starts who a generation ago were living
obscurely in places like Burwood, or even
in the outer darkness of country towns. The
blame for the infamy is being heaped on the
A.D.C.’s: and some of them are understood
to be going abroad only at night just now,
and in impenetrable disguises at that.
The Australian Historical S-ociety, having
combed N. S. Wales for antiques, put the
collection in the Education Galleries and
threw it open to interested students, who
one night last week included the State Exes.,
she in black velvet. To revive the
old argument over the discovery of gold
descendants of Hargraves and Lister and
lorn wandered about the room another
evening, Mr. Tom displaying the original
nugget found at the Fitzroy, a perfect
heart in shape. There were documents and
seals and a few rags of Governor Mac-
quarie s day, though little of silks or corals
to speak of his lady’s extravagance. Some
dresses worn by the first and second Aus-
tralian editions of the Marsden family were
on view. In 1822 Ann, daughter of Samuel,
tucked away inside a lumbering coach, went
to a ball at Government House. Maybe it
was that very night she won the heart of
Tom Hassall. The dress was of the faintest
blue silk, round and low as to neck, and
puffed as to the baby sleeve, and altogether
of such dimensions that it would not fit a
present-day healthy girl of 12. Near the
ball-dress is the prim wedding-dress and
(alas, moth-eaten!) the veil worn by the
little bride and her mother before her. The
Blaxland family ran to silhouettes, and their
profiles warranted the expense.
To the many descendants of Governor
King and of Governor Bligh, to E. V. Mann
descendant of Surveyor-General Mitchell, to
" ilshires and Milsons and hon. sec. Cramp
and (among others) to City Librarian
Bertie the collection owed its being.
Mrs. George Yivers, the same beautiful
liene Marks, is back once more and staying
at the Australia, which she finds has changed
only in two respects: one is that the Winter
Garden that was never profaned after din-
ner by anything less sacred than a dinner-
coat, now shows tweeds and ready-to-wear
millinery even unto a late and early hour;
the other, that the old-fashioned five-course
dinner has disappeared, and you order one or
two things and eat them, in the American
way. The sunshine and the glorv of her
own country and climate thrill her. The Aus-
tralian woman in London is not half patriotic
enough, she insists. There are Australian
women married to Englishmen who admit
their nationality only after it has been
dragged from them. Simplicity is the keynote
of the “good families” of England' and
America. There is practically no service at
breakfast or lunch. Everybody helps her-
self from the dishes on the sideboard, and
even when there are guests the sideboard
rarely has more than two dishes to choose
from. In America the Cornelius Vanderbilt
family don’t do themselves any better in
the food line than an average Australian
family whose staff consists of one cook and
two maids.
Ciro’s has slipped back to its pre-war
glories, and the frocking is shorter and more
decollete than in the old days. .Timmy Alli-
son was in Cannes, and Favette Perry in
Nice when Mrs. Vivers was in the South
of France. Fayette was the same little girl
with the baby-blue eyes, the same blobs of
curls each side of her face and the same
little hats. Said Fayette to a very slow
waiter one day when he finally brought her
order: “You know, you really should be in
Grand Opera.” “But Madame makes the
mistake, I cannot sing.” “No,” said
Fayette, starting her delayed dish. “But,
then, you cannot wait.”
A gorgeous uniform sends this from M.L.:
Just a breathless gasp of advice while the Renown
stretches another silken bond across the Tasman. lie
can’t waltz, and except in defence of Imperial unity
doesn’t attempt to. The official set is the last straw
but one on the Royal hump; the ultimate hump
is the encircling of a bare back. But he’s just the
whole jazz outfit in free-gaited trotters.
Mrs. William Collins is one of the very
few private hostesses who will give a party
for the Prince in Australia. There is to
be a dance for him at Nindooimbah, her
place in Queensland, during his Bananaland
tour. Nindooimbah is a show station with
every sort of modern comfort. Mrs. Col-
lins is slight and fair, and spends a lot of
her time in Sydney; most of it between the
Queen’s Club and her friends the Alex.
Hays’ house in Macquarie-street.
This doesn’t flatter Mrs. Henry, who
used to be Esther Crawcour—the brilliant
girl, who, having a few hours to spare
lately (her two baby-boys were doing nicely
in Sydney), sat for her M.A. degree in Mel-
bourne and took it
as she has taken
every other aca-
demic honor she has
gone after. She
went with a scholar-
ship from the Vic.
State schools to the
P.L.C., and with
sundry exhibitions
and more scholarships
passed t o Ormond
and set out on the
Arts and Law
courses. Afterwards
she abandoned law
and dived deep into
languages, incident-
ally for three years
handling th e poly-
glot correspondence
of Path 6 Frferes. Then she married —in
1915 —and continued her studies with her
husband. Incidentally, she has three soldier-
brothers of whom she is very proud, and
not the less proud because two of them can
now muster only a couple of legs between
them: each lost his right support. The lady’s
portrait is from Broothorn’s.
Kenneth Mackay is one of the N. S.
Wales squatters who will put the Prince up.
He saw service in the South African War,
but was over the age for the purposes of
this one. He had charge of the Australian
Reserve till a few weeks ago—the force
which was created by the ingenious military
bosses of the Commonwealth in order to
soothe the returning A.I.F. men with the
idea that some military use was to be made
of them. The returned men are no longer
considered dangerous by the martial office-
men, so General Mackay has been demobi-
lised and the Reserve is expected shortly
to follow suit.
The smiling young man from Windsor
should be very comfortable during his stay
at Government House. Dame Margaret is
giving up her suite of rooms —including the
boudoir which the family makes its living-
room. The walls carry new creamy rep
paper with a thick gold stripe; the furniture
is being brilliantined. and new loose covers
are going on all the chairs of the old-
fashioned, quaint, rose-festooned designs.
The young man will step on to his balcony
o’ mornings to be wooed by the three beauties
that dwell in Farm Cove, the wooded slopes
of Kirribilli and Mrs. Macquarie’s chair ;
while spread before his eyes the glow of sal-
vias contrasts with the emerald of the lawns.
But it was a very small allowance of the
taxpayers’ money that a hard-up Govern-
ment would allow to go into the wallpapers
and the chintzes.
The Rodney Dangars are entertaining the
Prince in July on his way back from Bris-
bane. Not in their own home at Sutton
Forest, but in the family stronghold—-
Barooma, Singleton. The Dangar family
is in England, so son Rodney has to host
the occasion. Mrs. Rodney’s sister, Peggy,
from the Malay States, is to be one of the
party.
The Prince is no gourmand, and allows
only five courses for dinner —soup, fish,
entree, roast and sweets; so the way of his
hostess is made easy. Australian wines are
preferred. Queen Mary is said to be re-
sponsible for that item.
Faulconbridge, on the Blue Mountains, is
in a flutter. It’s said that H.R.H. on his
way to the Caves will drop in to see the
trees planted by his father and Uncle Clar-
ence on the mortgaged estate of old Henry
Parkes. The sprig planted by Clarence
flourishes; that by George is dead and gone.
The Duke of Edinburgh also planted a tree
out that way, at Bathurst; but it went
further west long years ago.
Booked for matrimony, Dr. Katie Ardill,
who held a commission with the R.A.M.C.
(British forces). She is a daughter of G.
E. Ardill, who befriends the outcast, and
the husband-elect is Charles Christie Brice,
who served with the A.I.F.- —a son of the
Brices of North Sydney and Rhodesia.
The Hon. William French, second son of
Lord de Freyne, has just married in London
the youngest of the large Dalglish Bellasis
family. Her mother was a de Lauret, of
Goulburn, a sister of Mrs. Ted Simpson,
who is now in England, and an aunt of
Alick Dalglish, of Pomeroy. The Dal*
glishes recently took their only boy to
Oxford—Alick Dalglish is an old Christ
Church man—but the climate was too much
for him and he had to come back.
Mrs. Alex. Hay and her sister Miss Bur-
dekin are off to London again, chiefly to
see their only brother. He was a captain in
the R.F.A. when the war ended, but has now
begun practising at the London Bar, pre-
paratory to being “called” in Australia. The
elder brother, Sydney, was posted missing
early in 1915, and was never heard of after-
wards.
Brisbane’s social observations
Died at Coorparoo last week, Mrs. H. W. Atkin-
son, wife of one of our best-known architects and
daughter of former Mayor of Brisbane James Hip-
wood. One of the cheeriest and most hard-working
of war-workers, the lady received a heavy blow,
from which she never recovered, when her son,
Capt. Jimmy, and her son-in-law, Lieut, lteg. Verl'y,
were killed in France on the same day.
Mrs. Guy L’Estrange, who sailed for England
in the Euripides, was guest of honor at a farewell
tea in the Gardens. Mrs. F. Lord, Mrs. E. F. Lord
and Mrs. Harold Brown were the hostesses.
George Brooke and Eddie Cahill warn friends by
letter that they will not be back for another year.
After finishing their Indian tour at Simla and MUs-
soorie they go on to Burniah, China, Japan and
the Philippines.
Ross Smith had crowded houses at the Exhibition
for his great flight story. The Lieut.-Governor and
a pretty daughter occupied the vice-regal pew.
Lloyd Rees opened his picture exhibition here on
Friday. The rain kept away all but a few enthu-
siasts, but the cheering red spot was well scattered.
Mrs. Stanham, who wan a Macarthur
Onslow miss, has presented Australia with
an aide in the making.
Deputy Town-Clerk Layton is joint-
secretary with Town-Clerk Nesbitt of the
Mayor’s Fund, which will put Up the final
shutter when the last married soldier comes
back to Aussie. The Fund was started in all
the cities of Australia and was governed by
an executive of the big business men of each
centre. Its purpose was to augment the
allowance Billjim bequeathed to the girl he
left behind him with the youhgsters. At the
time of the Armistice £150,(K)0 was being
paid out a year in Sydney, and at one time
or another Mr. Layton had interviewed each
claimant. Every application was investigated,
and the case of Mrs. Billjim who wrote in
asking for a pre-birth allowance showed that
this was necessary. Her letter was very
pitiable, and the inspector was sent out to
see about it. A very worried official re-
turned and announced “nothing doing.” Two
weeks later came a more tearful letter. Bill-
jim junior had arrived three days previously
and had found the layette practically
empty. Again the inspector was sent out, this
time with five pounds
in his pocket. To his
knock Mrs. Billjim
opened the door.
“Come to see the
baby,’’ announced
the inspector. “Can’t
see him,” replied the
woman, “he’s got
the measles. Besides,
my husband’s home
from camp and
doesn’t want strang-
ers about.” Just then
Billjim in khaki
came to see what
the talk was about.
“Mornin’,” said the
inspector; “come to
see the bab y.”
“What baby?” asked
Billjim suspiciously. Then poor little
Mrs. Billjim broke down and cried, and what
could a worried inspector do but warn her
not to do it again ! The working expenses
of the fund were almost nil. The paysheet
consisted of two typists and an inspector
Mr. Layton (whose photo is given herewith)
put in free evenings doing overtime on the
books; and men like Russell French, Deni-
son Miller and Alfred Meeks, of the A.M.P.,
can tell you how smoothly the big organisa-
tion that stretched into every by-way of
every suburb of our city worked.
Mrs. B. E. Minns has arrived in Sydney
and is up at the Grosvenor, listening rather
doubtfully to her big, quiet bushman-artist’s
alluring picture of his mountain gully at
Gordon, in the heart of which there’s a real
cave. Food and clothes get more than a
passing word. Of air-raids she tells nothing
except of the last one she was in. When
the alarm sounded she was getting ready
for bed. It was a chilly night, and she
thought of the basement. She thought a
second time of the basement —and hopped
into bed. And didn’t wake till the “all
clear” sounded.
The always effectively-dressed Rix Nicho-
las lady chose the Women Painters’ Club
one night last week as a background for her
smart lilac-and-silver froeking and a mon-
ster fence of tortoiseshell with which she
hedged in her back hair. She talked on
Morocco, of which she has done so many
vivid chalk-sketches; and members of the
club lent themselves to be living demonstra-
tions of seller and sold in the markets of
“the East.” Finally the bright young
woman ran Minnie Love’s Chu Chin Chow
a close second when she appeared first as
a Chinese Mandarin and secondly as a
Chinese Prince. Royalty is in the air these
times.
Lee White, who left a London success to
come to Sydney and “Bran Pie,” extended
the festive hand first to as much of Sydney
as Mrs. Mclntosh could pack into the draw-
ing-room of the Australia. Next afternoon
the tall woman with a Way of looking you
straight in the eyes—it makes you feel
she's a real man—slipped like an eel in and
out of her Reveille confections before another
congregation in the Tivoli. That dress-
artist, it appears, can take 870 kilometres
of tulle, the plUckihgs of a. feW hundred
ducks and a mile Or two of jet, find Whisk
the lot into a creation as quickly as you
or the next woman could turn the whites
of two eggs into a souffle There were a
basic-wage Or two at the party. No
doubt they Were gdih’ttg experience in cheap
dressing On behalf of little-sister Factory
’Ahd, who earns 80s. a Week.
Carrie Lahceley is leaving for America,
and raises her soprano in farewell ih the
Town Hall on Friday next. Funds go to
the North Shore Hospital.
Mrs. Maurice Moseley* who sails for
England this month, is going to leave a
vacancy in neatly every charitable organisa-
tion Sydney knows. The Girls’ Realm
Guild will feel the blow most.
Evelyn Chapman, an ex-studeht of A.
Dattilo-Rubbo, had this year three pictures
accepted at the Paris Salon. Since she left
Sydney Miss Chapman has been studying
hard and has made a lot of sketches on the
battlefields of France and Belgium, which
she will exhibit on her return to Sydney.
Mrs. A. E. Macleod, who will entertain
the Prihce during his stay at Canonbar in
July. Was at the Australia last Week doing
a final bit of shopping for the event ahead.
Returned lately Captain and Mrs. Pri-
deaux Brune. She was one of the Garvans.
He was with our Light Horse for a while,
but later joined the 8.E.F., finishing up as
an Unwilling guest of Fritz.
Flora Sandes, who is travelling this Way
in the Nestor, will be the guest of the
Women’s Service Club at dinner on the 21st.
At Bombay, a while ago, Captain Basil
Holmes, D. 5.0., of Sydney, married Nellie
Miller, an Irish colleen, niece of late Police-
Magistrate Heron, of Geelong. The cap-
tain, who left with our 17th in the early
days, and later transferred to the Indian
Cavalry, is a son of that General Holmes
who was killed while showing ex-Premier
Holman around one of the battle areas in
France.
The business that men do lives after them
—a truth that was exemplified last week
when a couple of York-street buildings,
which old John Frazer is said to have got
for £2500 half a century ago, were sold to
Arthur Cocks for £40,000. The chief benefi-
ciary is the already enormously rich Ewan
Frazer, who married Jessie Middleton, of
Goulburn, and did some racing in N. S.
Wales and Victoria a dozen years ago, but
now lives permanently in England. His
sister, who divorced the youngest of the
Fairfax brothers the other day, is also inter-
ested in the estate.
The Girls’ Realm Guild is once more
listening to calls that come from nearer home
than France. One little girl is going to feel
the benefit of the Guild’s helping hand; for
a dance held at Double Bay the other even-
ing is the first of a series that will mean
the rounding off of her artistic education.
Mrs. Lion and Mrs. J. Scott are attending
to the funds, and the girls are being the
fairy godmothers.
At 3 o’clock on Thursday the Junior
Red Cross showed wdiat it could do and has
been doing for so long past for the soldier's
kiddie. There was a flutter of white-clad,
crimson-emblemed Marguerites on each side
of the stage, and at the word “Go!” the
wheels went round. Very pretty, and the
kiddies looked sweet; and down at the bot-
tom of the hall stood the great, ugly hand-
looms evolving beautiful pieces of cloth, Aus-
tralian through and through. Their Exes,
and J. O. Fairfax blessed the meeting, J.O.
like the hurrying rabbit in Alice in Wonder-
land, with his eye constantly on the clock.
Bookbinding, toymaking, basketweaving—all
the industries for which our returned boys
have become so famous, were represented.


%&\
I':.. - ' ■'■'■: v s«- ■ .... ; AW*.;/- j|
m^mwam%
wmm
S 3 :
- • -^
r
’ - ,r - ••'
i
■
IIIIS
i : «ir%
J
,
■
gig
;■:■ •- .
mm
mm
■■■■■I ■
MS
•v.:
.
a
.-m ■
, < #*. * **'
1 .
1 ::
; *>£.
ilium
’*: ' §#sBllll
~*iS9M
- •.v : ■•• ••v- * -,:
mm
m
___
uniiiiim
&
HR R
■
v-:i
.
MH
*
Bill
■
HHI
■i
■i
H
■
- i
a
mm
m
m \
"Wfm
■
wmm
s . ••;
ill
Ilil
illlillll .. •9 i
r, i m
wm
m
i
«§SIIISSII
wMi
II
:. ■■ ■
v- -J
s i b
>«
':
■Bfy
it
■
■v-
: ' . i
■ :
*j
#
: •
I i
■
I m
m
M
■>
■
.
mm
BU
.t’i ■
s/j
M
■ J s’*' ■*■.,"*• ii
■
JS >' • > ' ,-Ci | - MMppMMBMI
' A* * **• : > * *■ -y,
1
Hfl
11
■
m
m
V.
I
few
■
vV<- -
■
S& -
H i
IS
Is
S 1
i®
■■Ml
n
1 s
: : -;'l
music and Imagination
Phillips Brooks—that man of keen perceptions
—once said: "A school song in the heart of a
child will do as much for his character as a fact
in his memory or a principle in his intellect.” In
other words, music as a means of culture, is a
potent factor in human civilisation. This being
true, how essential it becomes that the young
mind should drink in nothing but the best! Let
him practise, certainly, but not rely on his own
puny efforts as a stimulus to imagination.
The Beale Player-Piano combines in one instrument the best
means of attaining ideal results. The finest compositions in
the musical world can be played with the roll and used to im-
press on the child’s mind the full beauty of correct rythm
and tone colour. Aside from the enjoyment you will person-
ally derive from the instrument, this educational value is a
highly important feature of the Beale Player-Piano. And at
all times it is available for hand-playing. The Beale Patent
Tuning System ensures an instrument always in tune, and
this, despite the great amount of use a Player always gets.
The better musician you are the more you mill appreciate the ‘Beale
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTDI
Showrooms:
333 George Street, Sydney.
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale.
BRANCHES
N. S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


A GREAT Australian
Garden.
THE FINEST APPLE COUNTRY ON EARTH-
STONE FRUITS AND VEGETABLES TO PERFEC-
TION. Perfect soil and climate and certain rainfall
provide the ideal pursuit of agriculture.
Secure an orchard in any stage of development or
production on terms to suit.
R. E. BEDFORD, Stanthorpe, Queensland.
£lOOO PER YEAR
at 23 Years of Age
There’s Money
in the Pen.
ir-i
m
We know
of a young
lady—an Aus-
tralian commer-
cial artist, who
makes £lOOO a
year and over, l>y
designing fashion
drawings. We know
of many other
artists who make
considerably more.
Why not you ?
Under the per-
sonal direction of
Mr. Ilarry J.
Weston, one of
Australia’s most
successful commer-
cial artists, we can
develop your talent,
and put you in the
way of making
money in this con-
genial manner.
LEARN BY MAIL
Send three
stamps to cover
postage, and we
will forward
you our illus-
trated booklet,
“THERE’S
MONEY IN
THE PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
207 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
©
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you.
GET THE GENUINE
PARIS GARTERS
EVERY TIME YOU BUY.
Imitations at any price cost you too
much.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
BflßiliPKUm
V Flannelettes
SAFETY
COMFORT
Mn R ROCK SES'HORR
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
You Will Not Know Real Comfort
Comfortable as
an Old Shoe.
Until You Rids in
The “Longreach.”
Right from the jump the “Longreach” is
comfortable, and needs no long breaking-in
period to make riding a pleasure. In this
saddle the flap is seamed direct on to the
seat, doing away with the usual skirt and
giving a narrow non-chafing grip. The pads
are a deviation from the usual shape, and are
set high up almost level with the head of
saddle and along the rider’s thighs, giving
perfect security. The leather used is nice,
flexible kip, and the fittings are folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l5/15/-
Freight Free for Cash with
Order to any N S.W. Port or
Station on N S W. Railway
System.
SEND YOUR HEIGHT AND WEIGHT.
Horsehair Saddle-cloths Just Arrived.
HORSE-HAIR COVERED WITH FELT, 35/-. POST FREE FOR CASH.
WRITE FOR OUR FINE SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd., 595 Sydney.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during a
period when it has not been easy to live
uo to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. We will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
80 Malden Lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.B.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred.”
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
New YofK - San Francisco. U.S.A.
The Drills You Want
are those that will cut accurately at the highest speed.
Gain this end by using
“ULTRA-CAPITAL” HIGH-SPEED TWIST DRILLS
They cut accurately at highest speed in all classes of steel, and hold their
cutting edges longer. That’s why leading engineers everywhere prefer them.
Supplied in all sizes with square, straight or taper shanks.
For prompt attention address requests for prices, etc., to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
When Your Engine
Signals S.O.S.
Every motorist learns to dread that knock—knock—knock—
which, coming from the engine, signifies its dire distress. Nine
times out of ten the cause is carbon, and the cure costly. It
may mean “taking down’’ the engine, reboring cylinders, new
piston rings, or other lengthy and expensive repairs.
The Smith British
4-Jet Carburetter
will save you all this, as the carbon
deposit is most frequently the result of
burning an uneven mixture. You can’t
do this without a Smith 4-Jet Carburetter,
as the strength of the mixture is auto-
matically controlled to a nicety in the
simplest possible manner. Let us show you how you can
save 25 to 30 per cent, on your petrol bill, and secure at the
same time the maximum of comfort and efficiency.
ASK YOUR GARAGE.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South Wales,
S. SMITH & SONS (MA.) LTD
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY;
and 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Maine and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stumps accompany.
Grabal: Everything hangs on the power
of Parliament to fix its own salary. The Constitu-
tion doesn’t limit that power. All it rays is that,
pending the exercise of the power, the salary shall
be £400... .Ex-Missionary: When the R.C. side of
any sectarian controversy in Australia becomes
unusually heated there is invariably an Irish cleric
at the bellows, not a French, Italian or English one.
And of his 105 extra degrees of temperature 2}
degrees are religion and 1021 arc honest Irish
national patriotism. When the Irish republic is
recognised and has settled down religious heat will
become so cold here that mutton will be frozen on
it.... Inquirer: The figures given are those of Sir
L. Chiozza Money. But no one can dogmatise on
the question. The seasonal flow of the Shannon was
found last year to fluctuate between 1,600,000 cubic
feet per minute (winter) and 75,000 cubic feet per
minute (summer). The only point the writer fought
to make was that Ireland has plenty of “white er.nl” ;
and that is beyond doubt... .D.L.S.: It’s a lovely
thing:—
.... L.L.G.: Has corns on its feet and white whiskers
on its ideas.... Cebro: Shocking 1 What a naughty
boy!....Ric. Toe.: The best idea in it was unfor-
tunately worked by that fellow Kipling... .C.H.S.:
“Franks” doesn’t make g00d.... Frances B.: Poor
attempt. .. .F.P.11.: But surely you don’t contend
that you can test the value of either of the New
Guinea territories by present trade-figures ?.... Vact-
hell: That yarn reads poorly, but the material is
there... .A.II. (East Malvern): The youngster may
do better. The verse is not very much at present.
....Alfred S.: Not up....A.5.: “Delilah” moves
well until it reaches the last passage. But the sub-
ject is a bit threadbare S.R.P.: May be a good
translation; but it isn’t good verse... .Southern
Soul: Verse not up.... Chas. A.: Can’t find
any mirth in it Carlyle C.: Nothing
.... Heigh-ho: Pretty lame stuff.... Eileen McG.:
Verse says nothing 1.A.C.: You can’t hope to
build a sonnet of commonplaces... .M.P. (Adelaide):
It lacks interest... .Blister: The verse isn’t strong
enough to carry it L.P. J.: “Paddy” won’t do
C. 0.11.: Not up F.G.E.: Horrible yarn which
doesn’t persuade the reader that it’s true R.G.S.:
Why should “R.G.S.” be “R.F.S.” ?.... J.M. (Bondi) :
Too poor to print Frank G. E.: Topical verse
must do something more than merely paraphrase a
press item.... Paul McC.: What on earth do you
mean by “I care no wit for social strife” ?... .Half-
moon : Misses; but “the she-oaks banshee to the
night” lives on hauntingly.. . .A.J.S.: That’s sur-
prising enough :
. ...B.C. (North Sydney): Doesn’t say much more
than that the troops have left Egypt... .William S.:
“Children” rather off our beat....R.M. (Dalby) :
“Deals” is one syllable, “ideals” three. A thing
as small as that wanted perfect handling.... Darby:
“Tale of Two W T eddings” is bad verse... .W..J.C.:
Don’t like “Dorothy.” The other may get through.
....Belle T.: The cheap paradise of a dream in a
dentist’s chair doesn’t get us. We have just had
an eye-tooth out ourselves.... T.W. (East Mel-
bourne): Verse doesn’t score a try. .. .G.R.: “The
Denouement” is the usual sort of 510 p... .Y.C.C.:
Events on the “gutties floor” are not thrilling....
Sirod: Interest in “cinquains” and other trick verses
died some years ago. “When you are near” and
“Meditation” are too thin... .P.McG.: Not up....
One Who Knows: Discussion of the matter in this or
any other paper may do more harm than good—at
this stage, at any rate. May we send the letter
to the Minister who bosses that department and
probably knows nothing at all about it?
Along the road the cyclist came,
On a throbbing steed filled with flame
Dodging the ruts on every side,
As he swept along on his perilous ride.
Crack 1 went a sniper’s rifle
As he took a shot from behind a stone,
But from the rider not a cry came, only a moan,
Though it had shattered his wrist bone.
On, on he rushed till he reached the place,
Which he had gained by that awful pace;
But he received another wound,
And he fainted ere he reached the general’s room.
But he had come through with the despatch,
Although not without a scratch,
But then he received the D.C.M.
So he didn’t care a a-hem.
What is Enough ? A thing we strive to gain,
Unmindful of those lives we wrack with pain;
Worshipped by men, in love that shall not swerve,
A venomed monster, there for all to serve.
What is Enough? When tired eyes grow dim,
And Death bends low to chant “Life’s parting hymn”
A light shall shine and part those clouds of mist.
Then we shall know Enough does not exist.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.C.P.: Suggestion so weak that it had to be
given a chair and fanned with the office t0we1....
M.O’C.: You are still young enough to improve
or swear 0f1....C.G.: Killed your cheerful idiot.
. ...0.F.: Struggle on. Try to kick yourself out
of the scrap-book stage... .R.M.L.: Young, nervous
work. Incidentally, David Low did him for this
paper long ag0.... A. 11.8.: Billy isn’t excited, and
he hasn’t been rushing. His father looks like a
badly-stuffed scarecrow.... Ern S.: The naturalist
is now busy amongst the office fantods. The humor-
ist with the caged parrot is still standing where
you drew him, wondering how he is going to get
out of his buttonless waistcoat...-H.A.F.: The
lady visitor seems to have a crippled hand, and
her feet are too big.... D.C.: Refuse to attempt pro-
phecy, beyond saying that you’re a very raw ama-
teur who with practice may improve. ... D.G.: Small,
stiff, expressionless figures... .L.A.H.: Don’t make
the world groan... .F.S.S.: No demand for twisted
people and people with pantomime heads. .. .E.P.A.:
Gloomy scratchings.. . .R.G.: Two lunatics sitting at
a table during an inkstorm. Can’t accept them as
John Bull and Uncle Sam F.M.G.: Take it away
and bury it —deep... .S.J.H.: What is the doleful
caller talking about? Is he angry because his legs are
so short? E.S.: You don’t know much about it,
and you’ve a heavy hand.
“Caly”: We all know what happens when
Greek meets Greek. Recently saw Greek
meet'Chinaman. Fruitopolos contemptuously
watched At Chop empty a basketful of
wares at the end of the counter. “How
muchee, John?” he drawled superciliously.
Ah Chop’s answer was drawled, too: “Twoa
da seex!” I nearly pressed my crayfish
upon him.


Shipping^
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabtnes-de-
] lU xe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
r irnte Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, (i Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By. way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 16,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; lion. A. J. TITYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - B BIS BAN E.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq. '
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places Throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£500,000
600,000
£1,100,000
. 125,000
625,000
£1,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 88 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. ' . .
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINEN 1
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. MAKURA, June 3, 3 p.m.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, June 24.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—t'le Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara l ulls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
Marama, from Wellington, June 15.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, June 10.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
• UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ill
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
Directors :
- £4,765,700
- 3,375,000
- 4,765,700
£13,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksa.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors- A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Buis
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
J£aitk°'Huotralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,462,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
1-lon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Slumping.
INTERSTATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. CoTLtd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 4C9 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly ' to: —
TWEED,. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads— I steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address •
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Intuited.
Fitzroy Estates limited.
Blackheath Collieries Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line ('Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney'. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller .
Life of William Booth, the Founder
the Salvation Army. Bv
HAROLD BEGBIE. With Three
I hotogravures and numerous other
Portraits and Illustrations. Two
Vols. fo 2s. n et.
I J I ' E “ Mr - Begbie’s book will be
welcomed widely as the good thing which it
undeniably is—-a book frankly written and
ii ee from prejudice or exaggeration. There
s . '. 10 ne p. to dwell on the absorbing interest
for all students, of tho roliofious
and the social problems and progress of
the last ninety years.”
Through Deserts and Oases of Cen-
tral Asia. By Miss ELLA SYKES,
I< .R.G.S., Author of “Through Persia
on a Side-Saddle,” etc., and Brigadier-
General Sir PERCY SYKES,
K.C.1.E., C.M.G., Author of “A
History of Persia,” etc. With Illus-
trations and Maps. 21s. not.
FIFTEENTH THOUSAND.
The Economic Consequences of the
Peace. By JOHN MAYNARD
KEYNES, C.B. Bs. 6d. net.
Stabilising the Dollar. A Plan to
Stabilise the General Price Level with-
out Fixing Individual Prices. By
IRVING FISHER, Professor of
Political Economy in Yale Univer-
sity. 21s. net.
The Press in War-Time: with Some
Account of the Official Press
Bureau. An Essay by SIR ED-
WARD COOK, K.B.E. 7s. 6d.
net.
The Times : “The general public may read
w’lth curiosity the particulars of an organisa-
tion which they never liked, but the chief in-
terest of this book lies in the exposition of
the principles which governed censorship.”
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politic!} of
the British Commonwealth.
ss. net.
Annual Subscription, 20s. net, post
free.
Leading Contents for March:
AUSTRALIA: THE DEATH OF MR. DEAKIN
—LORD JELL! COD’S REPORT—THE
FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
THE BRITISH EMPIRE, THE LEAGUE OF
NATIONS, AND THE UNITED STATES.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL CO-OPERA-
TION.
THE GROWING RESPONSIBILITY OF
LABOR.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE: THE PARIS CON-
' FERENCE AND AFTER.
REVOLUTION AND COUNTER-REVOLUTION
IN RUSSIA.
TANGIER: A STUDY IN INTERNATIONAL-
ISATION.
The Problem of the Commonwealth.
L. CURTIS. The after-war rela-
tions between Great Britain and the
Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.; cloth,
4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing. Gs.
net.
The Story of Milk. By JOHAN D.
FREDERIKSEN, Graduate of the
Royal Danish Agricultural College.
Illustrated. 9s. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLANS CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE &. LONDON, W.C.2.
ABBEY
SHOES!
If you desire n correct and distinctive
style for every occasion, you cannot do
better than rrake a point of wearing
ABBEY SHOES.
ou are assured perfection in fit, as they
are made in half and full sizes, and in
three fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
VVo feature a smart made-to-order style
in Tan Willow Calf.
PRICE 40/- & 55/-
Pat-nt Bals., Dull Legs, 55/-
Postage extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
We Desire
to Buy
PLATINUM, at £lB per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gen„s.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., 23 BY H "'
Government Notices.
ORDER NO. 4.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Sheepskins)
Regulations.
Sheepskins to be made Available for
Appraisement.
T WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
, the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Sheepskins) Regulations
(Commercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the re-
commendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
(а) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of dry. sheepskins of the
value of £5O or over which has or have not
been appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins for appraisement; and
(б) require every person firm and company at
any time after the date of this notice and
before the 30th day of June, 1920, holding
or having under his or its control any stock
or stocks of dry sheepskins of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available within 14 days from the
date on which such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins is or are first held or had under
his or its control, such stock or stocks of
dry sheepskins for appraisement.
And I declare that this Order does not applv to
sheepskins purchased or held bona fide by a fell-
rnonger for fellmongering in Australia to a quantity
not exceeding normal supplies for his fellmongering
plant, provided a return of the quantity so held
is furnished to the Central Wool Committee on or
before the 28th day of April, 1920, or within such
fourteen days as aforesaid, as the case may he.
Dated the ninth dav of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (W T ool) Regulations.
Wool to be made Available for
Appraisement.
T WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
- 1 -, the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Wool) Regulations (Com-
mercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the recom-
mendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice :—-
(a) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of wool of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of
wool for appraisement; and
(b) require every person, firm and company at any
time after the date of this notice and before
the 30th dav of June, 1920, holding or hav-
ing under his or its control any stock or
stocks of wool of the value of £5O or over
which has or have not been appraised under
the said Regulations to make available
within fourteen days from the date on which
such stock or stocks of wool is or are first
held. or had under his or its control, such
stock or stocks of wool for appraisement.
Dated the ninth day of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/» post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
83. Harrington «nd Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top, lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about sAlb Freight paid,
£6/10/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS B RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman’s
Mecuin.
“SURE
Guide.
Vade
It
j
«2». Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
inch barrels both h 1 En S lish D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28- or 30-
patcrt' fore ends top actlon cross-bolt. spring strikers. rebounding looks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7ilb. Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving St cks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing- to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
JMutaJwL
812. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
iffCOll Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71l>. to 7711 b.
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid, 3L. 147 * 4*/“
We can also supply the “Ithaca” Gun, similar description to No. 12 but ovr . _ .
higher grade 3 2-gauge at Freight paid, 3LIO/10/“
ih
834. Remington Browning Autonn
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71h Freight paid,
itic Repeating
barrels, take-down
£l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
B2G. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2iin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7slb Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
SUNOL TOBACCO
High-grade Virginia—Natural Aroma.
SEND FOR 2oz. SAMPLE PACKET TO DAY
Dark 1/4, Post Free; Bright 1/6, Post Free.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid ease-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, SOin. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6Alb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B 7 Ejector, 55/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State-
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
1C
'J
mjsnwLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS •
mD TOB7JCCOJYISTS
I City Sports Depot
39 Kind St d/so at
Itewcastle £ Brisbane


Did You Ever Hear of a More
Wonderful Cure than This?
mi
Mr. W. J. EDWARDS (from a photo).
I feel it my duty to send you
a testimonial for the way 111
which your wonderful Rexona
Ointment cured me of Trench
Feet. I am a returned sol-
dier, and served in the 27th
Battalion, A.1.F., France, and
whilst abroad I got what is
known as Trench Feet or b rost
Bite, which causes decay. 1
was sent to England, and was
for 18 weeks under electrical
treatment to restore life back to
my feet, until my feet decayed
that much that my toes dropped
off, and my foot was almost
eaten away, and they decided
to amputate the left foot and
the toes on right foot. bor
weeks I was lying in hospital
not making the slightest head-
way, when they decided to send
me back to my own climate,
while my feet were decaying all
the time. I had to have two
more operations.
I arrived in Adelaide on tne
12th April, 1918, was sent to
Kerwick Hospital, and was
there six months, in which time
I suffered terribly. I was an
experiment for the doctors, for
they tried everything, all with-
out success. I had four more operations, and was finally dischargee as
incurable. ,
For vreeks at home I tried all sorts of Ointments and different tni g ,
until at last it worried me so much that I decided to go and have my le
leg amputated. I told my parents what I intended to do, and they got m
to give your Rexona Ointment a trial, so I gave it a trial, and by tne tim
had used six small tins of Rexona my feet were completely cured, a
saved me from losing my leg, and from that day I have never bad t
slightest trouble, and am able to walk with the next one, and when I n en*
for my artificial foot they asked me where I got cured, and when l toio
them they were greatly surprised and would not believe me.
So, trusting you will use this testimonial as you wish, and it requiring
further particulars I shall only be too willing to give you them.
Yours truly, (S,gd.) W. J. EDWARDS,
60 Ashley Torrensville, Adelaide, S.A.
REXONA THE KING OF OINTMENTS.
Rexona the Rapid Healer is a necessity in every home. It is the most woniler-
ful Ointment of the age, as the above letter shows, and heals even long-standing,
obstinate sores and skin diseases. .... „ „
Rexona at once exerts its antiseptic, soothing and healing powers, causing a
new. health skin to grow, and soon all trace of the wound has disappeared.
0
o
o
Remember,
in a large si
Rexona is sold only in triangular pots at 1/0, ana
ze. bolding nearly four times the quant’ty. at 3/-.
THE RAPID HEALER
Rounding the Buoy on Plume
Plume has made good cn all types of motors,
from the big cruiser to the portable motor on
the row-boat. Satisfactory motoring de-
pends upon freedom from engine troubles ;
therefore the question of benzine quality is a
most important factor with motor-boat
owners.
Motor experts agree that
PLUME BENZINE
4
%
%
wm.
PI
m
El,
ftu/y.
t . •
is ideal for motor-boat owners
Plume vaporises instantly—that means easy starting.
Plume forms a perfect gas, leaving no trace of raw fuel
to cause carbon troubles. flume is uniform ;it gives
sweet running and steady, reliable power always, and
a gallon takes you further.
Whether it’s a motor boat, a car, or a motor cycle,
Plume will give you maximum engine efficiency.
Don’t ask for Benzine —say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 22
The Going of the Grey Geese.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“At the end of March /XfTnd^then
■ d H eSrt V o their nesting haunts within the Arctic
Circle.” , ,
ERE Spring has come with song o er the
sobbing outer seas,
And the sough of April rain to the
green Hebrides,
Crowd the wild geese all a-gabble in a
strange excited rabble,
For it’s northward go the greylags,
The greylags,
Honking north go the greylags grey.
There’s a whisper down the wind, there’s a
call across the sea
Of a nest among the crags of a white
countree,
And it’s gather from the hushes of the furze-
land and the rushes;
“Gather in!” cry all the greylags,
The greylags,
“Gather!” cry the greylags grey.
Never year but comes the sign from the
barren and the neak,
Where the merry dancers trip and the polar
skies are bleak,
And it’s wing and wing together from a
world of whins and heather,
Honking homeward go the greylags,
The greylags,
Honking home go the greylags grey.
Like a shooting star at eve, like an arrow
from a bow,
Cleaving straight in trackless blue the clean
way they all must go,
To a hot huzza of greeting and the roll ot
pinions beating
Sails the king of all the greylags,
The greylags,
The king of all the greylags grey.
Oh, was it magic flute or enchanted viol’s
sigh _ .
Floating down from Heaven s gates ! Hark,
the rapturous reply!
Hark the clamor and the hustle of a million
wings a-rustle!
“We are coming!” cry the greylags,
The greylags;
“Coming!” cry the greylags grey.
Nor’-nor’-east across the sky, wing and wing
and neck and neck,
Till the blurred ranks gloom to cloud and
the last cloud is a speck,
Nor’-nor’-east for far fields flying, and echo
answers, dying,
“Honk, a-honk, a-honk !” the grey-
lags,
The greylags;
“Honk ’onk” the greylags grey.
So Spring comes in with song o’er the sob-
bing outer seas,
And the sough of April rain on the green
Hebrides.
And the wild geese gabble-gabble, in a
strange, excited rabble,
For it’s northward go the greylags,
The greylags,
Honking north go the greylags grey.
' victoria.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Cunning of Li Ling.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
LI LING had been drunk; sociably
drunk. He did not deny it. If
Ling’s intoxication had been aided
and abetted by opium instead of the white-
man’s whisky, so much the better for Ling.
Where the whisky-drunk man saw only
blood and murder and variegated monkeys
that gibbered, the opium-drunk bibbler saw
gorgeous cool groves of peach-blossom,
wherein silken-attired maidens flitted like
sprites from tree to tree, ever beckoning
and luring the stranger on with insinuating
promises of something better round the
corner. So the smile on Ling's face broad-
ened as he listened to the arguments of the
law-makers. For was not Ling sipping tie
wine of life in double measure? The saving
grace of humor had ever been his. W hile
he revelled in recollections of his glorious
tipple of the night before, he also fooled, with
a wonderful cunning, the wisest law-makers
of the land.
Ling was being tried for his life. It was
a great joke. While the law-givers wrangled
and cajoled and threatened and argued they
did not know what Ling knew.
Chung Soo had been discovered early one
morning on the river bank, as many another
Chinaman had been before him, dead. He
had been strangled. The livid cord marks
round the neck and the gaping mouth and
protruding tongue showed that. Half an
hour afterwards Li Ling had come in and
given himself up as the perpetrator of the
deed An hour after that Louie Pong had
called and claimed the distinction, at the
same time saying harsh things concerning
the veracity of Ling. .
It was a great distinction in the Lower
Quarter to have killed Chung Soo. Chung
had been a braggart. He wore white-man s
clothes; moreover, he swaggered. And swag-
gering was not countenacGd in tho
Quarter —unless one had killed a man. .
But there was more than mere notoriety
in it for Li Ling. Had he not made a bet
three days ago, of three thousand tael, that
any man with sufficient nerve could fool
the Court? Had he not specifically stated
that he, Li, possessed that nerve? And
had he not been taken up? It was a great
thing to be the slayer of Chun" Soo. It was
a far greater thing to win three thousand
tael. ~ . , .
From his place at the table —it was hot
and they had accommodated him with a seat
—Linr smiled a complacent smile.
Louie Pong was being examined.
Yes. he admitted that Li Ling had given
himself up first. But that only went to
prove Ling’s lying nature and his vindic-
tiveness towards himself, Louie. It was
known that Ling was jealous of him. It
was known also that Ling was an inveterate
talker. He talked whenever and wherever
he could secure an audience. It was said
that he was a direct descendant of the Yel-
low Emperor, 2G9S b.c., who talked from
birth and whose mother was made preg-
nant by a flash of lightning. Ling was a
terrible talker. No doubt he calculated the
present case would provide an appreciative
audience. _.
He admitted that beyond “I lalleem” Ling
had not spoken since giving himself up ; but
that only showed the perversity of Ling’s
nature, and his low scheming afer notoriety
to have the unusual phenomenon chronicled
in the papers.
How did he, Louie, account for his
going to sleep alongside the body of
his victim, as he said he had done? That
was simple, and easily accounted for.
Though Chung Soo was a braggart,
and wore white-man’s clothes, and swag-
gered, he was also a great athlete and
very strong. He did not believe he could
have managed to strangle him alone had
he not come upon him while he was resting
upon the river bank, and unprepared. As
it was, owing to Chung’s squirming and fight-
ing, the cord slipped thrice before he was
able to secure the strangle-knot. Chung
was very stubborn, and clung to life much
longer than he had any right to do. Even
when his tongue was hanging out he made
gurgling noises in his neck and tried to
curse him, Louie. But at last he gave in
and grunted and died. Then lie, Louie, being
very tired, put the cord back in his pocket
and went to sleep. Examination would
show that the cord Ling said he had em-
ployed for the killing of Chung was new
and had never been used, whereas his cord
was much frayed owing to Chung’s wriggling
and squirming. Chung’s neck had been very
tough.
How came Ling to give himself up at
the right time if he did not know anything
about the killing? He did know about th(
killing. He had heard him, Louie, say hi
was going to kill Chung. Also, he had
followed him. While Chung was squirming
and making funny noises in his neck, he,
Louie, had seen someone run off into the
darkness.
* * * *
It was very hot. The droning of the
voices in the court sounded far away like
the low humming of swarming bees. Li
Ling was drowsy. His head nodded, and
his eyes would not keep open. Why must
Louie keep chattering like a woman? Any-
one with eyes could see that the Court be-
lieved him, Ling. He had clearly proved his
claim to the slaying of Chung. Moreover,
he wanted to go and collect the three thou-
sand tael. Ah Wong had it locked away in
his safe ready to hand over. He had always
wanted a joss-house of his own. With the
three thousand tael he could get Wo Wung,
the best builder in Tientsin, to put one up
for him. He would have a real dragon
over the entrance and a new mat. With
what was left he would buy joss-sticks and
incense; enough to last for three years.
Of a sudden he sat upright, wide awake.
The law-makers also had tired of Louie’s
chatter, and were summing up their ver-
dict. The three thousand tael was very
close. On the evidence they could not pos-
sibly award the verdict to Louie.
The headman pronounced the judicial deci-
sion. In scathing language he flayed Louie
for wasting the valuable time of the Court.
It was plain to anyone that Louie was an
impostor. Learning that Ling had killed
Chung Soo and given himself up, he had hur-
ried to lay claim to the perpetration of the
deed. Also, he had talked too much. While
saying that Ling was a terrible talker, he
himself had done all the talking. Ling, on
the other hand, was a most exemplary pri-
soner. Beyond admitting the killing and
answering questions he had not in any way
interfered with the course of justice. The
Court unanimously gave its verdict in favor
of Li I.ing. He it was, undoubtedly, who had
strangled Chung Soo. In pronouncing its
decision in favor of Ling, it would order
him to be brought before the Public Execu-
tioner that day seven days, to have his head
severed from his trunk as the law of the
land demanded.
Passing Ling on his way out. Louie paused
and spat in his face. Ling snvled com-
placently. The three thousand tael were
very close.
* * * *
A great crowd had assembled on the
beach. It was a very great crowd. Ropes
had to be stretched along to keep them from
pressing in on to the execution-ground.
Everyone who was anyone, and all the rest
of the town, were there. There would be
great sport. Fourteen there were to have
their heads cut off. There would be much
spurting of blood, and much wriggling. Per-
haps some of the heads would be available as
souvenirs.
The Public Executioner bad arrived early.
His scimitar could be clearly seen flashing
in the sun’s rays as he moved about from
place to place. It was rumored that he had
been supplied with a new scimitar especi-
ally for the great occasion. It was said it
could cut clean through the sinews, spinal
column and windpipe, from only a shoulder-
Ir'srh swing. That he was anxious to try.it was
plain from the way he hurried his assistants
as they moved along the line, trussing up
the hands and feet of the prisoners as they
knelt in a row upon the sands.
Li Ling was thirteenth in the line. But
I.°> had no more significance for Li than
two, or nine, or 14. Superstition could not
upset his solid equanimity. And. moreover,
was the three thousand tael not very near?
As he knelt with his head bent so that the
sinews and spinal column of his neck stood
clearly outlined beneath the skin, he could
see the real dragon over the entrance to his
new joss-house, and feel the caressing crunch
of the new rush mat beneath bis feet as he
entered. He could see. too. the disgust on
Ah Foo’s face when he learned that Ling
had won the wager.
It was all very simple. When the Public
Executioner finished the man before himself
in the line, he would roll over and cry out
that he had fooled the Court: that he had
done it to win a bet; that Louie Pong had
(Continued on next puye.)


BACKACHE DAYS and NIGHTS
Do you realise that Pains in the Back, Limbs or Joints, Weak Heart, Irritability, Languor,
Sleeplessness, Dizziness and Urinary Troubles are symptoms of SERIOUS KIDNEY
WEAKNESS?
Kidney Disease comes on quietly and may take you unawares, for often its symptoms
are put down to other causes —a serious mistake in many cases. Early symptoms are pain
and tenderness in the back and groin, bladder irritation, stiff or aching limbs, scarcity or
excess of urine, sediment, night sweats —chilly, moist or swollen extremities, drowsiness, blurred
sight, dizziness and morbid depression.
For when diseased the kidneys fail to purify the blood, so that uric acid and other poison-
ous matter is collecting in the system, causing rheumatism, stone, dropsy, gravel, sciatica,
lumbago and other complications.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a tonic for the kidneys, which they heal and strengthen,
enabling these all-important organs to rid the system of poisonous deposits that are setting
up disease throughout the body. They promote a healthy flow in the urinary channels, which
relieves irritation, soothes the bladder and dissolves stone and gravel.
Keep the kidneys well and they will keep you well, but you must get the right medicine.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. Isaac Swales, 97 Fitzroy Street,
Moore Park, Sydney, says:—(“Twelve
months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for a severe attack of Backache and
kidney trouble, which had defied other
remedies for a long time, and I am pleased
to publicly state that these grand pills cured
[ me. I used to suffer agony from backache
and other symptoms of kidney disorder, and
I was sometimes so ill that I could hardly
get about. The pain in my back was par-
ticularly severe when stooping. I was also
troubled with headaches, restless nights and
disordered secretions, but after taking a
course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I
felt in splendid health, and have remained
well ever since.”
Seven years later Mrs. Swales confirms her
previous statement: —“Eight years have
elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me, and I have had no return of my
old complaint all that time.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Henry Adams, Annerley, Campbell
Street, Waverley, Sydney, says:—“For a
long time I suffered from backache. I got
little rest at .night and would toss and turn
for hours. I began using Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills and they gave me relief almost
at once, and a course of the remedy com-
pletely banished the pain. They have
proved a marvellous medicine, for it is
eighteen months since they cured me, and I
have never suffered with my back since. I
am glad to tell others what Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills have done for me.”
Eleven years later Mr. Adams confirms
the above, and says:—-“I have had no re-
turn of backache since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me, nearly thirteen years
ago. I always keep a bottle in the house
and take a dose now and then, for I think
the kidneys need a tonic sometimes.”
Picture
Tells a Story:
«S
i
M
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold at 2/0 per bottle, at all Chemists
and Stores, or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
killed Chung Soo ; -and that Louie was the
man to have his head cut off. It was very
simple, and no man could say he had no't
fqoled the Court and won the wager.
But Ling was forgetful. In his anxiety
to win the bet. he had overlooked the fact
that he was hard of hearing on the left
side. And the Public Executioner came
down the line from the left. Ling did not
hear the rounds of applause as one after an-
other, clean and quick, the heads of the pri-
soners were severed from their trunks and
sent rolling many yards across the hard
sands. Often had he watched the perform-
ance nimself, and knew to a nicety just how
long it would take to chop off the 12 heads.
\\ ith his eyes to the ground, and listening
intently, he waited. A complacent smile
flitted across his face as he thought of the
hubbub there would be when it was found
that he had fooled the Court and deprived
the spectators of part of the scheduled per-
formance. They might hiss him. and it was
just possible he would be ordered a
but he would have won his wager.
.V sudden loai as of an express train
cleaving through space broke upon Line’s
hearing; for one great pulsating instant a
terrific volume of sound like the roar of all
the breakers of all the oceans of the uni-
verse dashing themselves to pieces on the
rocks, welled into and choked liis ears; a
narrow, streaky shadow, carving a half-
circle, slithered across the sand under his
nose and a mighty twinge, like the toothache
multiplied by a billion toothaches, shot
through his body. Quivering all over he
knelt bolt upright, while his head from its
place on the sand, the comnlaeent smile still
ncross its face, watched the blood spurt from
his neck like a silvery fountain against the
clear rays of the morning sun.
G. L. THOMAS.
Around the Corner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ A DVENTURE waits for all of' us
/-\ just round the corner, but mostly
we keep straight on, our eyes fixed
on the stars or else bent on the dust at our
feet, and the greatest happiness of life goes
for ever untasted.”
Mrs. King-Wallen read this thought-com-
pelling sentence in an otherwise dull book.
She realised that she had been keeping
straight on along the conventional track
trodden by most women whose husbands earn
two or three thousand pounds a year. At
times she had found it rather dull, for Mr.
King-Wallen had many things to attend to
besides his wife. Occasionally it was a
little disappointing. Not a couple of hours
ago he had rung up to say that he was '
dining in town and going to Melbourne that
night on a matter of business. Business had
to be attended to —she knew that. Busi-
ness was always most important. It was
business that provided the elegancies of the
King-Wallen menage. It was business that
provided the costumes of its lady, frequently
entitling her to mention in the society
columns of the press.; and this was not the
first time that business had left her stranded
at the heel of a wearisome day to read a
footling book with only one good line in it.
“Adventure waits for all of us just round
the corner.”
She threw the book away and rose to look
at herself in the panel mirror of her sitting-
room. A striking figure, thirty or maybe
thirty-five ; tall, slim and dark eyed, wearing
a blue-green costume with a transparent
over drape of black sparingly powdered with
silver. From a platinum necklet studded
with emeralds hung a pear-shaped black
opal. A slave-bangle gleamed on her upper-
arm. A black ribbon, low on her brow,
bound her black hair, and a tiny emerald
shone in the pink lobe of each ear. Surely
more than chance had garbed her to
queen it in some high quest on a warm
summer night, with a declining moon in the
sky and a city of nigh upon a million ‘souls
for her to adventure in.
She chose a small dark toque from her
hat cabinet, pulling it well down over her
ears. She posed imperiously before the glass
and smiled to think she was not unlike Theda
Bara. A china clock on a side-table tinkled
ten. She caught up a Mother Hubbard
cloak necked with black satin, and, wrapping
it round her, stole down the back stair,
through the deserted kitchen and along the
bricked path leading by the kitchen garden
to the tradesmen’s entrance and out into the
world so that “the greatest happiness of
life” might not be forever untasted.
The Little Lane of Back Gates was full of
darkness. The moon was too low to touch
more than the tops of things with silver. A
turn to the right and one to the left, and
she was in the main thoroughfare. Around
corners Adventure waited.
She was in a fairly fashionable avenue
with few people about at this odd hour.
The houses stood high and well back in
umbrageous gardens. There were lights in
most of the windows ; she caught snatches of
song, jubilance of laughter, the wail of a
violin or a flute sobbing in the shadow. The
street stretched to where the harbor gleamed
invitingly. She walked aimlessly, her mind
openly receptive, content to take the cup of
happiness from the first hand that offered it.
She was at the end of the street now. A
strip of park lay between her and the harbor,
where a ferry-boat like a jewelled insect
slid along the smooth water. She stood by
the white painted turnstile and noted the
couples that sat in the shelter of the trees.
A pair detached themselves from the friendly
shadow and passed arm-encircled though the
gate. For all the notice they took of her she
might have been on another plane—an
earth-bound spirit with whom they had no
concern. She also would seek where they
had found such happiness. She walked,
mincingly along the asphalt paths to the
rhythmic lap of wavelets on a sandy beach.
The path held pools of moonlight for her to
wade in and masses of shadow where she
could hide and watch far lights dancing to
the music of the stai’s.
The park was very lonely here. She sat
down on a broad seat under a whispering
pine, a smile of expectancy trembling 1 under
her drooped eyelids. A motor-car hooted in
the distance and a man came towards her
from the water’s edge. Slight of figure and
with bowed head he stumbled as he walked as
if his shoulders bore a heavy load. Water
dripped from his coat sleeves and the legs
of his trousers were quite wet. He sank
almost at her feet, his elbows on the seat
and his face buried in his hands.
Did he pray?
He crossed his arms and laid his head
in the crook of his elbow. His face was
towards her —a boyish face, haggard yet not
unhandsome. Ilis hat fell off and uncovered
a crop of short, sandy hair. Ilis eyes were
red and swollen as if they had wept much,
and his pointed, girlish chin gripped a mouth
that could kiss or curse with equal fervor.
Ilis body sagged as if he slept, and she drew
the skirt of her cloak around his shoulders.
A ship’s bell chimed across the water. A
cloud blotted out the moon. She bent over
him and, wrapping him in her garment,
drew his head into the warmth of her bosom.
With a deep sigh of content he nestled close
like a tired child, his chin, rough with a
day’s beard, pressing pleasantly on her bare
flesh. He sobbed in his sleep and she crooned
him an almost forgotten song which she had
last sung to her dead child. In time he
awoke wonderingly, but she soothed him into
silence and kissed his pale lips.
Neither explained. It was an episode
planned in the beginning of time. Ilis
cheap, slop-tailored clothes and his ill-kept
hands showed her that otherwise they could
have never met. The richness of her dress,
the fashion of it and the scented softness of
her body was a new experience to him. He
played with her necklet like a shy child with
a strange toy. He wove his fingers in her
hair and caressed the delicate modelling of
her ears. He thrust his hand among her
gauzy chiffons and embraced her as if she
were his day-old bride.
As the gibbous moon set behind the head-
land they rose and turned towards the city.
They spoke little-only some vague words
of endearment. The one cloak covered them
both and the friendly night kept them hidden
until they came to a naked portico where a
great light glared like the blare of a trumpet.
“Dearest,” he said, “I must leave you
here.”
She made no protest: it was all of a piece
with the night's happenings. She kissed
him on the eyes, on the ears and on the
mouth, and he, sensing a ritual, sealed her
thus also.
“Good-bye,” she said, as he walked up the
steps, and a sleepy policeman blinked at
them from a grated window.
The sharp wind that precedes the dawn
swept across the city and set her shivering.
Day was breaking as she reached her trades-
man’s-entrance again. She crept up to‘ her
room unnoticed. The wonderful night of
adventure had passed.
She .slept dreamlessly until afternoon,
when her maid woke her, relating the latest
tragedy detailed in the early edition of the
evening paper. Her senses, still tangled
with sleep, lagged behind the narration.
"Terrible
What teas it that “went forever un-
tested” ?
"Early this morning
Not terrible — wonderful!
“At the foot of our own street, almost at
our very door
Yes , it was just grey daylight!
“Found her out with another man
Was it a door where the bright light was ?
“Strangles her and holds her under the
water
Whatever on earth is the girl talking
about?
“Serves her right: no man should hang
for a woman like that
The sleeves of his coat and the legs of his
trousers were quite wet.
“The detectives are on the track of a
fashionably-dressed woman who kissed him
good-bye on the steps of the Paddington
Police Station. I suppose she was no better
than the other woman : it’s a pity he didn’t
strangle her too.”
D. H. SOUTER.
The Great Gate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
m HE North Head is the Great Gate,
A lion in his state!
The South Head is his lioness,
Whose w ard is with her mate:
Sleepless, and proud and sentinel,
With deep and brooding eyes,
They keep the place inviolate
Where our great city lies.
The North Head is the Great Gate:
The South Head lifts for him
Her candle of the wilderness,
Her flashlight of the dim —
Her fiery eye, that through the dark
Runs, semaphores the skies,
And keeps the watch inviolate
Where our loved Sydney lies.
The North Head is the Great Gate —
Indifferent to the seas,
Indifferent to the hurling wind
In torment at his knees,
Mighty, imperial and strait.
Though nations fall and rise,
He keeps the gate inviolate
Where this our city lies.
O lion and O lioness,
Holding her outer gate,
Couched, pad to pad, to keep for us
Her pride inviolate.
Let the wild jackal howling cry!
On one fierce day thy roar
Shall shatter him to flinders
Upon the ocean floor!
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
\
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD ,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N. 2. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
ORLICKS
MALTED
-MILK
**ins. invm-'® 4 :
S^wfwvt'.
•S SS9*
OR MILS
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat, 1
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never ’
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made,
in a moment, any-J
where. Only water!
is needed.
t
In hot climates it
invaluable.
"A
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(jd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
J
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Urnnc-hes in nil parts of the worW.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
USE
For
IMar&iM
All linen
iVi'/H>VpiWNfVrf^U'w*VrVb-;H|;:::
TO ENSURE PROTECTION
AND INDIVIDUALITY , .
CASH’S WOVEN NAMES are in
World-wide favour, through Quality and
Utility. Any name is woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Colour. Easily
sewn to any article or garment whatever
Fabric.
Be Sure and Ask for Cash's Names
Prices— 12doz. 4/6,6d0z. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St,, Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
c-s;
* A*-*J i*iuwvj.uwvii ctppcaxxiig in JL XXJCJ
Julletin takes your fancy, write to the
lanager, who will quote you price for it.
OENBY
MQ^QRLORRIES
m
E
-
Economy and Convenience Paramount.
SPACE is too meagre to enumerate each
single point the designers of Denby lorries
figured out scientifically for economy and
convenience to the user. Simple statements of
Denby merits might seem like egotism.
We prefer to let the user speak its praises. Detail
specification in our catalog will impress upon you the roast ns for
the Denby’s popularity.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2|, 3i, 5 tons.
THE HALLIDAY ENGINEERING CO.,
’Phone: City 4399. 79 pj tt Street, SYDNEY.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appe 1 e, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
urmg the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
6 wi 1 the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
BEEGHAM’S PIUS
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings,’generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beeeham’s Pills
AND MARK THE DIFFERENCE I
Sold in boxes, labelled price 104 d (36 pills), 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
m
ft
m
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 tittle Collins St., Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under ' all
conditions. To prove what we sta e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
TAN KS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter's Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill m the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
L i ver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
J
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist has
tnem. Lrood for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dose-Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
ZZ Cal. Rifles l
and Cartridges]
TWENTY-TWO calibre rifles are more universally used than any
other. It is with this calibre that every boy learns to shoot—the
adult sportsman uses it for target and field shooting—it is the arm
of small bore rifle clubs the world over.
UMC
for SKootingJßi^Kfi
Special descriptive booklet, showing various repeating ana single shot models,
together with much interesting information on ,
shooting, will be sent you, post free, upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant. Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
“Dreadnoug'ht”Wire Strainer
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
*4*
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
f.o 6
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
'3NUnoai3IAI HJLfIOS ‘pnoy AqunuuoN
‘Aundiuoo BuuniovinuviAi unj.!J.


!jsa.!
J
'
;;;
■
■
From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong
4ft
(banks!
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND
