

RESTAURANT
' %
PARRAMATTA
WHARF
CIRCULAR QUAY.
x^i
St
m
it -
u
jifc
II
I'll
'D
m
r <*
kt
E
%'S, ■~- *
13
s_r _sn
i§ * J
-*2
is c^:
THE “PAVILION,” Sydneys Restaurant de
Luxe, is the most popular establishment in
Sydney for Luncheons, Afternoon Teas,
Dinners and After-Theatre Suppers.
All the best society “Catering Functions” are
regularly carried out by us.
The “Pavilion” is one of the City’s greatest
attractions for visitors.
Orchestral performances at all meals.
Open Good Friday, Sundays, and All Holidays.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2093.
Thursday, March 25, 1920.
PRICE fid.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


PAR
PLATE
100 Per Cent Value
V
**■!
For low priced silver-plated cut-
lery, rich in design and artistic
merit, none can surpass ONEIDA COMMUNITY
PAR PLATE. For its grade, the quality is
irreproachable and its variety of choice patterns
is unrivalled.
It carries a good plate and is guaranteed for ten years -the
first silverware of its class ever backed by a definite time
guarantee.
Par Plate gives distinction to the table, and is pleasing and
beautiful to look upon, for the artists who originated the high
grade Community Plate designs are also responsible for the
exquisite patterns that have made Par Plate famous in the
eyes of all lovers of the beautiful. Go to the leading shops ana
see what a sovereign will buy.
ONEIDA
COMMUNITY
LIMITED
THE BANKING HOUSE,
228 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Established 1848,
Incorporated 1881 at Oneida,
New York, U.S A.
tf u*r**
Also Makers of
COMMUNITY
PLATE
Guaranced for $0 years
AND
Oneida Community
RELIANCE PLATE
Guaranteed for if years
MAKE YOUR SHOES LAST LONGER
The secret of prolonging the wear of shoes is to keep the uppers SOFT AND
PLIABLE.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSING, which is produced by leather experts,
REPLENISHES THE NATURAL OILS of the leather, and
this prevents the uppers becoming hard and cracking.
COLORS —Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, Champagne,
Light Grey and Dark Grey. IN BOTTLES & TUBES.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO LTD., SYDNEY.
the sign or
A GOOD SHINE
llllllllllllilllllllllHlllllllil
ritish.
Ail
The
v
m
im
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agents:
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
fd
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. lon may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good’’ as Hudson's Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation ox
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson s
Eumenthol Jujubes. >rl n /A
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forwaid l/o
in stamps to. the Manufacturers,, Hudson ,s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney,
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption,
m
»
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
c. The -Bronchial
Tubes of a Dissec-
ted Lur?- , „
D. The Lobe o£ one
of the Lungs.
Red Page
Tho Technique of Galsworthy
As became the author of “Justice,”
“Fraternity,” “Strife,” etc., John Gals-
worthy declined the knighthood offered to
him in 1918. One wonders if that rebellion
was artistic or social. I remember a
fugitive paper of Galsworthy’s, printed some
years ago in, I think, The English
Review, in which, watching from his club
window a march of unemployed, he laments
his financial security until death. What-
ever happens, he complains, he must always
be safe and rigid until the end. So I think
his refusal was artistic. More power to
him!
“Fraternity” is a dream of economic con-
tent, tender and subtle, and unreal as a
dream. Perfect in technique, it is a text-
book of the literary craft. It was written
in the eight years of hard work before full
recognition was given to Galsworthy. If
that deplored monetary impregnability existed
then, more power still to him for the eight
years than for the refused gaud ! In 1906
the hit came, good and hard, with “The
Man of Property,” proving that literary
skill is not always a bar to popularity. The
teuderness had gone, and the subtlety had
come down to the decorous popular level.
Tln> sensuous color and power of the book
and of “The Country House,” together with
the rare types and characters, made the
popularity in spite of the literary perfection
of the work. The subtlety had broadened
into the strong, certain, characterisation of
the Forsythe family, the “drunk” and his
exotic wife waiting for the decree msi,
and all the other lightly-touched-in but per-
fectly-presented characters. In one of the
books there is a description of a May even-
ing drive in a hansom-cab from London to
Richmond and back which sticks in my
memory as a masterpiece of sensuous inspira-
tion. Hanging over the incident there is a
carnal sin, and the matter is written from
the point of view of the sinner’s state of
mind. The skill with which all the imagina-
tive burgeoning quality of the spring twilight
is caught and fitted into the rich, sensual
picture is astonishing. Throughout the
chapter, long and difficult to write, not one
false note is struck; and as a whole it can
only be described as beautiful.
That is rather the characteristic of Gals-
worthy’s work: the beauty of the writing of
perhaps unworthy subjects. Naturally, in
the fastness of his own “Island Pharisees”
it was too much to hope that “Fraternity”
would be a paying mood for an author, but
in the inspiring strength and richness of
“The Country House” and “The Man of
Property" even the impressed critic feels
bound to admit a decline in punch. As if
the unworthy subjects had worn thin or
had been confined too rigidly to* one un-
worthy subject. The only literary reason
that I can see for putting imaginative sex-
matter on .paper is that the sex-relation
described is permanent. And then it is a
matter of the artist’s choice of manner ;
half a pungent sentence will generally indi-
cate a thing more powerfully than two pages
of technically beautiful writing. If there
is the fear or the sad certainty in the
author’s mind that the sex-relation he deals
with as his main theme is not permanent —
is, in fact, a sin—then literarily he had
better not write the book, however much his
technique tempts him to exorcise it. It
seems rather like writing a book with a good
meal for its main incident.
The three early plays read as well as
they act,, a distinction they share with few
modern serious plays. The power of the
cliniajJ of “Justice” or of “Strife” is as
great; ou paper as iu the theatre. The close
argument and direct economy of “The Silver
P.ox” are as impressive in the theatre as
in tlic book. That is achievement of a
high order. Shaw does the same thing, I
know;; but Shaw lias lighter, more everyday
themes usually, which lend their qualities
more ensily to both appeals. There is in
the Galsworthy plays a satirical bitterness
too apparent, an echo of the hopelessness
which nearly spoils Synge’s plays; but the
work;is too good dramatically and literarily
to isearch for faults merely of viewpoint.
It is not much, fun tearing a man to pieces
in’ 'criticism, especially if at one time lie
meant a good deal: but the men don’t seem
10 plhy the game. ' I suppose it is hard to
do sq in England with the barriers and tlic
Universities, the country houses and what
not. Anyway, Galsworthy refused that
handle: and in his collections of short pieces,
as “The Dark Flower,” lie is pure artist,
writing of dogs and their natures, poor
women, and other decent tilings. But in
“The Patrician” of 1911 tlic punch is
nearly gone; and in “Saint’s Progress” of
this year it is for me quite gone. The theme
of “The Patrician.” the domination of phy-
sical romantic love, is argued with all the
old beauty of color and soreness of touch;
' ut the severance in the climax, the re-
> hiiffiing according to the demands of the
; atrihian caste, are false in nature, and,
worse, make the thertw of the beautifully-
written book unworthy.
Noel’s father, a devout, clergyman, is the
ihiint of tile Progress. His progress is diffi-
cult. ; He has forbidden the marriage of
Nqel-and her man until the man shall return
from-the Front. On the evening before his
departure, Noel and he anticipate their lines,
lip goes to the battle area and is killed,
naturally; and, equally according to the
rules; of modern fiction, a baby is born. The
“progress” is the rehabilitation of Noel and
her babv in the mind of the Saint and the
world. Galsworthy cannot put his hand to any
waiting work which is .not finally well and
brilliantly done. Tin* movinv figure of the
pathetic, thin-blooded, “universally, beloved”
man stands out with his ineffectualities, his
muddled elicMs and second-hand beliefs, as
sharp!v and strongly as Major Pendennis.
T.oflg before the middle of the book you share
in the universal affection —the tolerant, half-
contemptuous affection. But that, in life,
von should not do; the man is a saint and
a teacher. The problems of his progress you
ha ye solved before he has got to the point
of their statement; and that in literature
you should not be able to do. And will you
notice how thin the subject has worn by
r. !.w ?
Nothing that Galsworthy ever wrote —is
moment: -on the contrary, his mastery of
technique in the .mass and in detaiL reduces
that to an impossible thought. Yet that
mastery works both. ways. The piling up
of vivid, glowing thoughts and words will
almost convince the critic that this imper-
manent thing is as important as the writer
would wish him to'think it. That "almost’'
is bad. In literary expression it is some-
times much worse to miss by an inch than
by a mile. The inch encourages the exam-
ination of the technique, which in its turn
discloses the thinness or unworthiness of the
subject which the powerful craftsmanship sq
nearly informed with life.
He has all the craftsman’s qualities. The
brutal economy and force of the rebellious
plays make them literature as well as voices
out of the 20th century English depths. The
bitter sharpness and poison of “The Little
Man and Other Satires” must surely give
the book a long-lasting place on the shelves,
beside the tender dreaming significance of
“Fraternity” and “The Dark Flower.” He
takes the place in modern English letters
of the arbiter of rules, even. If he wishes
to qualify his verb before the meaning of
the verb is in the mind, he takes his own way
to arbitrarily split the infinitive in the faces
of the dons and critics. These applaud his
courage; it is Galsworthy the stylist who did
it. therefore it is good. I’erhans so. But for
the sake of the refused prefix and of the
earlier books and papers (and my reading of
them when I didn’t think I knew so nine
I wish he would write on some other subject.
HILARY LOETING.
Blasco ibanez
Some literary astronomers have discovered
a new star, Vicente Blasco Ibafiez, and have
characteristically enlarged him to about
1000 diameters. The American -William
Dean Howells, who ought to know better,
has created an illusion of perfection about
the Spaniard that diminishes Wells, Ilardy
and poor Anatole t rance to the rank of
Garvices in contemporary fiction. “There
is no Frenchman, Englishman or Scandina-
vian,” says Howells, “who counts with
Vicente Blasco Ibanez, and, of course, no
Italian, American and unspeakably no Ger-
man, equal to this first of living novelists.”
This statement shows the sort of thing that
can happen to a foreigner who has had
the rare delight of becoming an American
best-seller. Ibanez’s story. “The Four
Horsemen of the Apocalypse,” has reached
a sale of over a quarter of a million copies
in the United States after being serialised
and read by another million or more in a
popular Yankee magazine. The sales in
Britain have also been large, and Ibanez has
attained such a portentous stature that some
critics of taste send discretion have scorned
the usual compromise of praising with faint
damns, quite willing with Howells and the
author’s countrymen to enrol “The Four
Horsemen” among the classiest This rap-
ture is inexplicable, for it is plain that
Blasco has written an average war story,
which suicides half through, bored by • its
own superfluity. The tragedy is apparent
to the most casual reader, and all the
author’s- fine footling, wherein he care-
fully rations his supply of blood and
disaster. are only attempts to hide
the body. The trouble with Ibanez is
that he has tried to visualise war by impro-
vising a smell of chloroform and cordite.
Strictly, he is an armchair, realist, and some-
times appears vivid and commanding until
one recalls that Zola in “The Downfall”
figuratively kicks his chair from under him.
Zola’s mass attack on your sensibilities,
achieved by combining the jobs of coroner
and descriptive reporter, makes the
Spaniard’s war a parlor game for delicate
old ladies. It is a sort of literary Ivriegspiel,
and one can almost hear the author yawning
between the moves. Ibafiez must have had
an intense struggle to write the novel at
all, and, only a commercial spirit could have
kept him prodding his lath and plaster fig-
ures in their last exhausting effort to reach
the finale. No doubt he wrote the yarn
for propaganda purposes in Spanish-speak-
ing countries, but it cannot be regarded as
literature, however admirable its motive.
Propaganda of this kind shouldn’t become
literature until it has been remembered a
hundred years.
If Ibanez’s irony has survived bis oopu-
larity. he mqst derive amusement froni the
fact that be lins been acclaimed a genius on
the strength of one bad novel, while two or
three superior performances have remained
practically unknown outside his own coun-
try. A few years ago he wrote “La Ilorda,”
a' studv of the submerged proletariat of
Madrid that showed him using a camera of
almost skiagvaphic power. His ruthless
veracity earned some applause and sustained
him through “El Intruso,” a Bilbao story,
and “La Cateclral.” dealing with life in de-
cayed Toledo, end won him a vogue as a
revolutionary thinker. Unhappily those
naturalistic novels never stirred the audi-
ence they were intended to serve, so, with-
out varying his method or discarding his
philosophy, he made irony his secret .vibe
and became a Baedeker of human futility.
It is impossible to escape the quiet derision
of “Sangre y Arena,” a tale of a matador’s
love for an aristocratic female, even though
the drama occasionally suffers from low visi-
bility and the art is too faiut to create a fair
ladv. He didn’t do so well with “Sonica” :
but there came a real leap in achievement
with “La Barraca” (translated abroad as
“The Gubin”), which particularises that
peculiar earth-passion that the* English
novelist. Sheila Kay e-Smith, depicted in
“Sussex Gorge!.” “The Cabin” is the best
of Ibanez’s productions. The narrative fur-
nishes a bitter picture of the Va lend an pea-
sant’s cruelties and gaieties, and rftns along
in a bubble of tragedy, culminating in an
irony that seems wry enough for laughter,
hut is obviously an artistic final curtain. If
Ibanez had weakened in his attitude to his
peasant hero, the last chapter would have
faded away in the usual strained diminuendo
of success and contentment. Blasco. how-
ever. refused to soft-soap this book for an
oa.sv run through the circulating libraries.
The consequence is that the only Cabins
familiar to English-speaking readers are
associated with Aho Lincoln and TTnele Tom.
Ibanez was, born at Valencia, and seems
to. have aimed at self-determination by fol-
lowing all available intellectual pursuits.
In his time lie has been journalist, pam-
phleteer. controversialist, politician, repub-
lican orator and member of the Spanish
Cortesl and has had to fight hard with both
sword and pen. After years of fevered fan-
fares for the social revolution, he developed
(Continued on page 2^


Autumn tad Winter
Fashions at Anthony Horderns’
rit
r,
*
0 7571
D 7571 (as illustration) is a
Cosy Coat Of All-Wool Blanket
Sergo, having smart panel effect at
back and front. Cosy wrap-over
collar, or may be worn open
rovers. New strap belt. Colors:
Saxe, Bottle, Grey, Navy or
Black.
Price .... £7/17/6
JX77O (as illustration), a
Pretty Day or Evening
Wrap of Soft Black Pin-point
Serge, 1. long roll collar and
cuffs faced with violet-shaded
Velours, and an imitation panel
back and front is adorned with
very wide Military Braid and
Black Silken Fringe. A decided
cachet is given by the tassel-
finished sash lined ">ith Oriental
Silk of a rich, col'orful pattern.
Price .. . £l2/12/-
JZ.VYQ
D 4 is a Serviceable and Warm Tweed Coat,
with large square collar of natural New Zealand rabbit, patch
pockets, and belt at waist. In smart Fawn shades.
Price 83/-
D 5871 is another Cosy Coat. It is of All-Wool
Blanket Tweed, in Medium Grey or Brown shades, with
large tab collar, fancy patch pockets and belt at waist,
The smart panel back is finished large self buttons.
Price 84/-
ď
0.313
1)7854 (as illustration). — Serviceable
Walking Skirt, in Black and White
Check, trimmed pockets and butters.
Price 32/6
1)313 (as illustration).— Stylish Skirt,
in Black or Navy Serge, with braided em-
piocemeiits on hips, finished belt and buttons.
Price 59/6
Other Full-valug-for-money Skirts: — . .
I)7B4l.—Smart Skirt, in Tartan Cloth,
inlaid panel at sides, finished tabs and but-
tons.
Price 63/"
D6o6—Neatly-cut Skirt, in Wool
Gabardine, inlaid panel at sides, trimmed
self strappings and buttons, in Black or
Navy.
Price 84/-
BY selecting your Autumn and
Winter Wear at Anthony
Horderns’ you can rely upon
obtaining the latest in the world of
Fashion —good quality, good-looking
and good-wearing attire which it is a
pleasure to wear or to be seen worn.
And the money you spend is returned
to you in value. You may post your
order, with remittance, to us —an
efficient staff will attend to your
needs. We pay the carriage to any
part of State; to nearest port in other
States.
my
La
Wil\
D 422
u
ie
Jk
0404
m
YfJ
D.65U
Warm Coats.
0422 (as illustration), a Velout* Cloth Coat,
arranged with fancy front panels, has large collar
and cuffs, interlaced folds of self, finished at waist
with belt and buckle. In Grey and Mole shades.
Price £7/19/6
1)404 (as illustration) is a Dressy Coat of All-
Wool Black Cloth, having large collar, cuffs and
pockets of Black Silk Astrachan; new American
sleeves, and smartly belted at waist.
Price £5/5/-
D 6511 (as illustration) is another Warm
Winter Coat, designed from Soft All-Wool
Velour Cloth. It has smart collar and revera, inset
sleeves, with cuffs, patch pockets and all-round belt.
In Bottle, Nigger, Mole, Saxe, Navy or Black.
Price £5/19/6
Serviceable Costumes.
0686 is a Fashionable Coat and Skirt
Costume in Fawn Gabardine. It has Sac coat,
roll collar with deep revers, double flap at sides
falling from all-round belt. Lined throughout white
silversheen. Plain skirt, slightly eased at waist.
Price £7/19/6
0807, a Coat and Skirt of Fawn Gabardine,
the coat having cross-over front, forming vest, with
roll collar and all-round belt. Thy well-cut skirt
has shaped empiecements at sides, trimmed self but-
tons. In Mole, Navy or Black.
Price £9/15/-
Dl3l is a Handsome Coat and Skirt in
Mole Gabardine. The coat is cut on straight lines,
with roll collar, three narrow strappings, forming
all-round belt. Sleeves and side of coat trimmed
buttons. Skirt to correspond with coat. Also in
Fawn or Grey.
Price £l3/12/-
If you have not yet received a copy of our
Autumn and Winter Fashion Book, write for it
now. Posted free.
It is an authoritative guide to the new season’s styles.
Vi
D 9571
J
W/ :
11X4% 2
JX422 (as illustration) is a
striking Wrap, carried out in
Cardinal Wool Cloth. A large
stole collar and wide cuffs of rich
Black Fur relieve in a wonderful
manner. The wing effect is intro-
duced, but on a moderate scale.
A touch of fur on the Back gives
the suggestion of a belt—but
that is all.
Price .. . £lO/19/6
Another Attractive Coat
D 9571 (as illustration). It is
fashioned from All-Wool Blanket
Serge, with long protective stole
collar of Black Silk Coney Cloth;
the fancy side panels are orna-
mented cable stitching to tone.
In warm shades of Saxe, Bottle,
Grey, Navy or Black.
Price .... £B/18/6
These suits also offer grand value: —
1)680.—Well-cut Coat and Skirt in Fawn Gabar-
dine. Smart roll collar with pointed revers, novel shape all-
round belt. Skirt slit and buttoned at foot, finished belt,
and self buttons.
Price £6/19/0
Dll7. — Exclusive Suit in Cream Gabardine. Coat
double panel back and front. Shaped piece at sides, effec-
tively trimmed cable stitching and buttons. Roll collar, all-
round belt. Lined throughout .Tap Silk. Skirt cut on simi-
lar lines.
Price
£ll/17/6
45
1X1045 (as illustration) is an Excep-
tionally Pretty Model Blouse, car-
ried 'out in rich Black Georgette. Shell
stitching adorns the round yoke and the
abbreviated sleeve tips. In addition, black
or white beads enhance the front, shoulders
and sleeves in quite a novel and original
way.
Price . . . v 55/-
1X1039, an Ivory Georgette Blouse,
has roll -collar, fastening high or low, revers
trimmed button and buttonholes, hemstitched,
smartly turned-back cuffs. In shades: Pink,
Fawn, Grey, Navy, Mastic or Black.
Price 32/6
ANTHONY HOEDEBNaSONSM
BRICKFIELD MIL
SYDNEY.


Holiday
time
is KODAK
time.
v ~
MS
M
mm
No matter where you go for your Easter holiday, be sure
and take a Kodak —then the memory of your happy
times will never fade.
A holiday without a Kodak is a holiday wasted. Don’t waste your holiday this year
—take a Kodak and bring home a picture-story that will be a source of lasting pleasure.
A handy model is the Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak—takes pictures If x2f inches. Price 47/6.
Others range up to £lB.
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Rrisbnne;
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Sensational reductions in the price of
TETRAZZINI.
“His Master's Voice"
Celebrity Records.
Because of readjustment of the rate of royalty paid to Celebrities exclusive
to “His Master’s Voice” it is now possible to make great reductions in the
prices of these particular records.
10-inch NOW 8/6; 12-inch NOW 12/6.
We quote a small selection from the lengthy lists to illustrate the REMARK-
ABLE SAVING on the world’s most famous records:—
12-inch Records, 12/6 (previously 16/6).
033062 —On m’appelle Mimi, “Boheme” MELBA
2*os3osB—Polonaise, “Mignon” TETRAZZINI
052224—Celeste Aida, “Aida” CARUSO
045560 —Hark, Hark the Lark PADEREWSKI
043152—Rosine-arie, “Barbier von Sevilla,”
FRIEDA HEMPEL
053176 —Un bel di vedremo, “Butterfly,”
GERALDINE FARRAR
2-053054—Ritorna vincitor, “Aida” DESTINNOVA
10-incH Records, Now 8/6 (previously 11/-)
7-53002—Entrance of Butterfly, “Butterfly,”
GERALDINE FARRAR
7-33012—Habanera, “Carmen” KIRKBY LUNN
2-52641—La donne e Mobile, “Rigoletto” CARUSO
2-52642 —Questa o quella, “Rigoletto” CARUSO
CONCERTED
12 inch Buff label
12 inch Green label. .
12 inch Blue label
12 inch White label. .
NUMBERS:—
formerly 19/6, Now 14/6
formerly 22/6, Now 15/-
formerly 27/6, Now 16/6
formerly 35/-, Now 21/-
All dealers now quote the reduced prices. Complete monthly lists and record catalogues may be obtained
from anv accredited dealer or from
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. ETD.,
“GRAMOPHONE»
Read. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
“His Master's Voire”
Read. Trade-mark.
umiTii
MASTER'S VOICE
HIS
m
m
mmiimminiTTiininnim


An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help your di-
gestion and take care of the over-
load, by taking one Pinkette, the
little sugar coated laxative pill after
a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are
greatly superior to old fashioned
medicines which over stimulate the
liver and, when their use is stopped,
leave it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the stomach
or cause griping.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Or. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarali 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
fd
Ike largest selling;
quality pencil in
the woxld
ENUS
ď
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN.
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Australian Mutual
trmilXL, Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Casli Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ..£39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Jfeyfcs. Jett tke Tat
I:;".: &e.sh£>r<?.v
■ •’"s£&i f : bll Ji
m
mm
or 8. Auxil
mm
PACKET
URODONAL,
THE GREAT FRENCH REMEDY FOR
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, GRAVEL, CALCULI,
OBESITY, ACIDITY, ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS.
f
d
URODONAL
dissolves URIC
ACID as easily
as warm water
dissolves sugar.
Recommended by
PROFESSOR LANCEREAUX,
late President of the Academy of
Medicine, Paris.
Prepared by
Etablissements Chatelain,
Paris.
Price per bottle, 10/9
From all
Chemists ami
Druggists
throughout
Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions
can be obtained from their Aus-
tralian Agency, 353 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Hotel tie Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3/4 guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
Wanted to Buy.
OLD SILVER aud GOLD. We wish to BUY any
quantities of Silver and Gold for melting
purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd.. 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
c k*a
£
o
£
<
V
SQOO^
«•
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Going Away—Easter?
Wherever you go—
whatever you do—
you’ll need a good,
sweet-smoking pipe to
take along.
If you’re buying an-
other get the real
French Briar by choos-
ing a
=
(®
—the perfect pipe.
Many shapes. Sold everywhere.
ď
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Old Garden.
The summer wind no longer blows,
The roses droop along the fence,
So strong and sweet about them flows
The slumb’rous tide of indolence.
The butterfly can scarcely lift
The painted splendors of its shape,
But like a galleon adrift
Swings idly round a flowery cape
Where drowse beneath translucent veils
The lavish coverts of the bee —
The glittering isles whereto it sails,
Singing across a golden sea.
And o’er the glories, honey-dewed,
Where gauzy creatures flit and play.
Great, gracious shapes of # leafage brood,
Dreaming their placid lives away.
No turbid surge of busy years
The fragrance of this cloister sours.
But, petal-like, the spirit hears
The gentle fall of faded hours
As each dav. like a rose o’erblown,
Drops its bright beauty, and the night,
Soft-stepping to its pearly throne,
Scatters rich largesse of delight.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Sun Worship.
All night the longing and enduring grass
Whispered that soon the sun would come to
pass,
And little drowsy birds within the trees
Dreamed of the solace of a sun-warmed
breeze.
Flowers, full of sun-love, breathed the night
away, , ,
With petals closely curled till the new day
Should glorify the heavens and recall
Green fields where poppies on the brown
earth-pall
Spilled crimson heart’s blood to the rustling
sound ,
Of wind among the amber corn-sheaves
bound.
For in the thin grey apathy of night
There seemed no courage. Sealed lay sense
and sight
In the wan light of chill indifference
That baffled every aim with insolence
Through the slow sequence of abysmal hours
When night assumed such weird, malignant
powers....
The world lay like a void futility
Borne on wings muffled in infinity
Of self-oblivion, till that too was lost
In desolation like a pallid ghost.
Then clouds that hung about the east took
flame,
And called the briar roses by their name;
And a young sparrow, like a brown priest
garbed,
Mounted an altar that the dawn had barbed
With points of fire. Sweeter than innocence
He twittered out a paean from the fence,
For Morn was born —that youngest of the
sons
Of Father Time to whom creation runs
With feet apace as, glorified, is hurled
The symbol of the sun upon the world.
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.
Morning at Albury.
The big black New South engines come to
the break of gauge,
Through the wheat of Wagga and Culcairn
and the Ettamogah vines;
Through the growing green of the plains and
the hills the color of sage.
And the steel track losing itself in a maze
of crossings and lines.
By the fecund fields of the Murray side, and
the cuttings of brown and red,
In the iron clays of Kenilworth that slope
to the Murray bed.
The quiet town still half-asleep in the quick-
ening glow of dawn,
The green flame of the poplars, and the
pines and the pepper-trees ?
And the blue back hills that rampart field
and meadow and lawn,
And the wine-like Kiverina air that is
sweet to the utter lees;
And Albury in the hand of the hills, cupped
and secure, and held.
And life serene is, or seems to be, with the
city’s noises quelled.
I am fain to live in the quietness of the
vineyards and the wheat.
By the swelling grapes, in the day-break
scents, and the ecstasy of morn ;
By the feather- and flame-shaped poplars
shading the quiet street,
And the bloom of the river orchards, and
the tassels of the corn ;
But we race from city to city, hither and
thither and yon.
Like the homeless catching a glimpse of home
and quiet, and passing on.
QUEENSLAND.
RRANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Pool.
There is a shaded pool
Friendly for tired feet,
Graciously deep and cool
After the cruel street.
Lined with the leaves of trees
Flung by the kindly breeze.
Here, where the world is still,
Hushed in a quiet calm,
Breezes and sunlight spill
Freely their gentle balm,
Where "on the ruffled grass
Sknv-moving shadows pass.
Safe in this hollow ’curled
Under the stooping tree
I would forget the world
Straining so far from me;
Here let me only know
How the grave shadows go.
N.S.W.
ANDREW H. WALPOLE.


To Those Visiting the ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW
WHO ARE INTERESTED IN MACHINERY.
Be sure and call upon Stand No. 45, where you will have the opportunity of inspecting three of the latest Machines
introduced into the Machine Tool world by Alfred Herbert Ltd., of Coventry, England, the largest Manufacturers of Machine
fools of Great Britain and Europe, with probably the largest organisation dealing with Machine Tools of the World.
On exhibition will be the Alfred Herbert No. 16 Vertical Milling Machine —without doubt the finest Machine of its
class yet produced. Also there will be the Alfred Herbert Four-Spindle Ball-bearing Drill, and the Alfred Herbert No. 1 Hexagon
Turret Lathe, for Bar Work.
in addition to which we have running under belt in our Showrooms, a big-production Machine for nearly every operation,
whether it be in the Factory, the general Engineering Works, or the Repair Shop.
We also carry a comprehensive stock of the most generally used small tools and requisites. In Grinding Wheels we
have the largest selection in Australasia—all grits and sizes.
All inquiries receive expert technical advice. Your inquiries are solicited.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Ag'ent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.,
Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England,
Teleplion s: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic ami Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: Union, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
The PopularShillingTooth Paste
Cleans fbe leert) wifbouf scrabchmg
\be breach;hardens fbe gums
MADE
IN
Australia
I
M'
f
If your chemisf or storekeeper
cannof supply, send l/z> in stomps
to Rocke .Tompsitt d Co. Melbourne.
pTMTH
V
"I Can't Imagine Taking
a Pie from a Tin”
Ventured one woman to
her triend quite recently.
They were discussing the subject of—
“ Rex ” Camp Pie.
Of course that is a mistake a woman
will only make once. Shell find
many a pleased user to tell her there's
no pastry or crust about “Rex"
Camp Pie.
It’s a concoction of the choicest of meat com-
pounds. seasoned, cooked and packed with a firm
jelly surrounding it.
You serve it cold—right from the tin, with any
kind of salad.
It is the ideal warm weather “Cold Tea” end
may he sliced thin for sandwich-making.
Try it once—that’s all we ask. You’ll always
have it in your pantry. All Grocers sell it.
FOGGITT. JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products
Carers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon.
3. 14
IS
II 111. .Iff
ESSEX DID IT.
A New World's Long-distance
Endurance Record.
A stock ESSEX chassis was driven 3037 miles
in a straight-out run of 50 hours, averaging
60.7 miles per hour for over two days.
This endurance test was made on the Cin-
cinatti Speedway, 1 3th December, 1919, under
A.A.A. official supervision.
A few days previous to the 50-hour run, two
attempts were abandoned owing to snow
storms.
In the first, at the end of the 28th hour, 1 790
miles had been covered.
On the second occasion, 1 040 miles were reeled
off in hours.
Thus, this absolutely stock ESSEX ran 5870
miles in 94 hours 22 minutes driving time.
What greater test than this could any man
ask of a car ? Have you drivf A a car at sixty
miles per hour for five minutes? If so, you
will appreciate this unique ESSEX perform-
ance. It is the old story of the HUDSON
patent compensated crankshaft, which elimi-
nates destructive vibration in a motor engine.
It is an outstanding ESSEX feature.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST LIGHT-CAR.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Magnificent Australian-built Bodies for early delivery.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2093.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1920.
i'iUCE Ol).
TIRED.
GRANDMAMMA: “Now I’ll read you some more about the dear Prince of Wales.”
HER DARLING; “Oh,"give us a rest. Gran!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMB TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ l 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £ l 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the. form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
MOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention . Further , The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and IV. Dauson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London K.C.I/;
V. Hole. Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.I/.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
.’i-’i Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Boston Hat Works, Eighth Avenue,
West Calgary, Canada.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets. San Francisco; Western News and Publishing
Co.. 10 Third Street, San Francisco. Cal., V.S.A.;
J. Poland Kay Co.. 181/9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
V.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
IKS.A. : Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street.
New York; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
('lark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey. Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., V.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singavore.
Ceylon.— lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Bail lie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — . 4. Barker, Suva; F. Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
!60z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
■in each packet — otherwise: Boz., I id.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d,; lOoz. to 120 z., 31 d.; elsewhere, l/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Easter number of THE BULLETIN
will be on sale on WEDNESDAY,
MARCH 31.
THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1920.
CAN THE COLORED MAN WORK IN
THE TROPICS?
The muddle aud confusion over the affairs
of the isolated community which showed
signs of going off its head through isolation
at Darwin, or developing a separate civilisa-
tion, which may be much the same thing,
raised a lot of side issues. One was brought
up by the inevitable human remnant who
wanted to know if colored labor wasn’t neces-
sary in the tropics, and thought that brown
(also black and yellow and golden) brother
was the only person who could work there.
Of this school was Judge Ewing, of Hobart,
who found his snowshoes useless in the
North and was refused whale-oil at Dar-
win’s leading hotel, and failed to fit into the
landscape Anywhere. Yet the question really
arises whether the colored man isn’t the
one individual who cant work in the tropics,
or who has failed to work there, which ought
to mean the same thing. By the term ‘work
in this connection is not meant the scraping
of a bare, dirty existence by few people from
a rich land, which a wart-hog accomplishes
iust as well, but the doing of things worth
doing. The people of the great fertile tropi-
cal lands were rather a skimpy crowd so
far as is known, and may have been a de-
creasing crowd before the white man began
to interfere, bringing along his mediciue and
surgery and hygienic ideas and peace propa-
ganda. The spade work they did, until they
came under the supervision of light-colored
races, was infinitesimal except in a few iso-
lated spots like Mexico, where our brother
was something of an exception, and even it
seems to have been exaggerated. Their men-
tal effort was smaller still. And the work they
didn’t do—the forests they didn't cut down,
the roads they didn’t build and the cities
they left unconstructed —was amazing. In
the valley of the Amazon, in Central Africa,
in Northern Australia, in Borneo, the unfit-
ness of our murky relative for tropical exist-
ence, judged by what he made of it, has been
appalling. Whether he is fitted for any other
place than the tropics is a different question.
Certainly he has done things in China and
Japan, Persia, Northern India, Egypt and at
one time in Northern Africa generally, which
suggest that he has possibilities in a tem-
perate land, but the tropics don’t seem to be
his proper country. Possibly when matters
are sorted out, if they ever are sorted out,
it will prove to be the white man’s place.
He is the only person who has done much
good there.
* * * *
There are cities in the tropics—big cities
or growing cities or small cities —of which
the world isn't ashamed, but the energetic
white man made them. On the list are
Mexico, Puebla, Guadalajara, San Luis
Potosi, Guatemala, San Jos€, San Salvador,
Leon, Bogota, Caracas, Quito, Guayaquil,
Lima. La Paz, Rio Janeiro, Sao Paulo,
Bahia, Pernambuco, Belem, Port Alegre,
Havana, Bulawayo, Salisbury, Khartoum,
Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, Colombo, Ran-
goon, Batavia, Soerabaya, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Charters Towers, Cairns and
many others. In a few cases there
was a native nucleus; in most cases
there was none. Colored labor was employed
in construction work where it was cheap and
plentiful and the scarce white man was in
a hurry, for much of the work was done in
days when machinery had hardly been in-
vented. But the incompetence of brown
brother was an aggravation. Where colored
labor was non-existent the white man did
the work himself and generally did it better.
In many of these cities the colored people
outnumber the whites, but that is mostly
because the white rulers played the heavy or
Christian-father part, and by keeping the
peace and by sanitary devices and medical
assistance artificially cultivated the colored
man in a not specially suitable environment.
Still, the colored man in the tropics is gen-
erally short-lived by comparison with the
white, and owes his increase only to rabbit-
like multiplication combined with some mod-
ern supervision of rabbit junior. In the very
few hot places where colored brother is still
left pretty much to himself there is no rea-
son to suspect any remarkable increase, and
the land is as a rule thinly peopled, accord-
ing to European ideas. Always, as at Dar-
win, the colored quarter of a tropical town
is the unhealthy quarter, and the colored
community is the unhealthy community.
Colored brother has done some remarkable
things off his own bat towards piling up
the census in temperate regions like China
and Japan, and he showed traces of mind
when he created Delhi and Pekin and Nan-
kin and Tokio and Susa and Nineveh and
Babylon and Damascus and Memphis out-
side the tropics. Perhaps that outside region
is where he really belongs if he particularly
belongs anywhere.
* * * *
The white man in the tropics and still
more so outside the tropics has been less of
a success than he should be where black
labor was abundant and cheap and where
the whites were so few that they constituted
only a small ruling caste and had to pose as
gods to avoid being mistaken for mere men
and be revolted against accordingly. No
one ever saw a god carrying bricks. Where
the white man multiplies and outnumbers
the colored person, either through white
immigration from adjacent white countries
or because the colored person was not ex-
ceedingly plentiful to begin with or was
killed off to finish with, he gave up his god-
like pose and started to carry bricks for the
good of his health. Where he remained a
small, god-like minority he kept up his pose
and loafed and rotted. Wherefore he digs
and hoes and is healthy and happy in Flori-
da, and calls the place the sanatorium of
Uncle Sam’s country, while in Delhi and
Amritsar and Lahore, in cooler latitudes,
he is supposed to be the yellow husband of
a yellow, faded, loafing wisp of a wife who
has to flee periodically to Europe to save
herself from destruction. The white man
drives cabs and tramcars in the great city
of Pernambuco within gunshot of the equa-
tor, yet he would rank as a disgrace to his
race if he tried to do so in the snows of the
Himalayas. And in the days when there
were white serfs as well as colored ones it
would have been equally revolutionary for
one of the ruling caste to be seen driving
a cab or working at any honest employment
in Petrograd. The light-colored races always
had a tendency to move towards the tropics,
wherefore they have abandoned
everything higher than latitude 60° in each
hemisphere. They haven’t yet fully estab-
lished themselves in their natural haunts
because of wild animals, wild forests and
wild deserts, and • because of wild niggers
whose neglect to clear away the first two
and to open up the third left thousands of
years of arrears of work to be overtaken.
But the problem may settle itself in some
way some day. Where the races are very
much mingled the white man in the tropics
is the fit person—the best worker and the
supreme organiser—and the colored one is
the unfit. The status of a tropical land where
white people have gone to stay and be accli-
matised (in India they are merely a shifting
military and commercial garrison) is great-
est where the fit white man is most numer-
ous and least where the unfit colored person
is most abundant. The minimum of colored
population in a tropical land is found in
Northern Australia, and even the advocates
of colored labor there, like Judge Ewing,
seem to admit that the ugliest blots upon it
are occasional quarters like that at Darwin
where colored folks congregate and show
their unfitness by their mortality records
and do no good to. the country or the human
race. Yet the Tory idea of improving the
place is to make it more blotted —in fact,
to make it all blot.
DUNTROON AND OTHER MATTERS.
Tiie Assistant-Minister for Defence hinted
a few days ago that the Government may
bring in a pensions scheme for members of
the Permanent Forces. But more than that
is demanded. Take, for example, the case
of a Permanent man who left as a subaltern
for Egypt five years ago. Assume that he
was brilliantly successful; that he was one
of those remarkable youngsters who, accord-
ing to lan Hamilton, were “worth their
weight in gold.” In that event he would
return to Australia with the rank of major.
(Those who stayed at home fixed it with the
politicians that lie should not rise any higher,
however splendid his qualifications.) On
disembarkation he would revert to his rank
of five years previously. (Under section 22
of the Defence Act he would have retained
the rank which he had won and ably held
in the field; but, in his absence, the
politicians were prevailed on by the stay-at-
homes to alter this section.) The present
position of the officer with the major’s quali-
lications and the subaltern’s status is that
he draws a shade under o a \uvk, plus two
biennial increments of £25, which brings his
total annual income up to £3OO a year. Out
of this he has to pay for his board and
lodging, his fares and ins uniforms, and meet
every other expense; help such members of
his family as may require it, and provide
for his old age. The essence of the system
which produced him is that he should not
necessarily come of a well-to-do family.
Brains, physique and character were also
required.
* # * *
In the British Army there is less insist-
ence on capacity and more on social posit on
and wealth. ’ More particularly on wealth.
Before the war the minimum private income
permissible in the case of a subaltern join-
ing the Household Cavalry was £lOOO per
annum ; in a Foot Guards regiment it was
£500; in some of the line regiments—the
10th Hussars, 9th Lancers and so on —the
figure was in practice still higher. Moreover,
in the British Army there is an elaborate
system of adding to income by means of per-
quisites. Allowances on a generous scale
are drawn for fuel, lights, horses and their
keep, and so on ; while ouarters and servants
are thrown in free. The mess helps those
who wish to save. And, of course, there is
a retired and half-pay system. Yet, despite
it all, a British subaltern starts with £149
a year more than an Australian of the same
rank, while a British colonel of regulars is
paid, apart from allowances, £2 for every
£1 that an Australian gets. In the Indian
Army the Australian standard is about
trebled: which is the sole reason why so
many distinguished Australians are serving
there at the present time.
To revert to the case of the ex-A.I.F.
major, his job, as an officer in the Permanent
Forces, will probably consist chiefly in
instructing C.M.F. trainees. He was more
suitably employed, possibly, as, say, second-
in-command of an infantry battalion or
artillery brigade in France; nevertheless
bis work is valuable in the other sphere.
The youthful Australian is notoriously diffi-
cult to handle on a parade-ground ; and good
results are only got in his case from officers
and n.c.o.’s who have seen active service. A
fourth-year Duntroon graduate has ahead of
him on the promotion list, roughly, 80
officers in the early twenties and the best
of health. So that there is every likelihood
of his remaining an area-officer at some-
thing under £6 a week for at least 10 years
to come. He is thus debarred, for all prac-
tical purposes, from marrying; though on
the score of eugenics he is just the type of
citizen who should be encouraged to add to
the population. In fact, he will be a lucky
man, and a skilled financier, if, in the effort
to keep up the style demanded by his
position, he eludes the Insolvency Court as
a bachelor. Meanwhile the College where
he learnt his soldiering is grinding out each
year between 30 and 40 young officers with
the same barren prospects as face him. At
present about 75 per cent, of the area-
officers throughout the Commonwealth are
ex-A.I.F. men who are not members of the
Permanent Forces. It is intended, as time
goes on, to replace them by Duntroon
graduate.
* * # *
One of the platitudes of supply and
demand is that poor pay produces poor
workers. If Australia continues to cling,
as regards its regular soldiers, to the pay
standard of a quarter-of-a-century ago, one
of several things will happen. Either picked
boys will go to Duntroon as heretofore, and
after getting the benefit of its training,
will by one means or another transfer to
British or Indian or even foreign units. Or
the best available military material will
cease to look to Duntroon. Our brilliant boys
who want a military career will aim instead
at Sandhurst or Woolwich. In that case
Duntroon will begin to turn out an inferior
type, and their influence will have a disas-
trous effect on the value of the C.M.F.
Rather than that such a calamity should
happen it is advisable that the area-officers’
jobs should be held indefinitely by ex-A.I.F.
men who, in the intervals of soldiering, may
earn money at civilian work—a privilege
which is denied to members of the Per-
manent Forces. The corollary would be
the scrapping of the College: and as a
result of that, if war came ir 10 years’ time
or more. Australia would be without a class
which did priceless work for the A.I.F. in
the days before the rankers began to gain
commissions. The alternative is to pay
these young men commensurately with the
responsible positions they assume as soon
as they graduate. If it is unavoidable that
they should be denied promotion for many
years (and it apparently is, except in the
case of the few who have the luck, from
time to time, to fill positions on lI.Q. staffs),
then it should be made possible financially
for them to marry without lowering their
standard of life while they are still lieuten-
ants. Their position (and, incidentally,
that of their seniors, and in a slightly lesser
degree that of the other ranks) is so bad
relatively to the economic changes of the
last- five years that the Government’s
belated mention of a superannuati m.
arrangement does not amount, at best, to
the. offer of half a loaf. It is the merest
crumb.
DARWIN.
Darwin Harbor is big and beautiful; more
beautiful even than that in the monsoon
season, when the poinsianas fling out their
rouge-flame blooms, and seas and skies blaze
king-blue and scarlet and amber at stmset
and all the young soft foliage glows emerald
and pomegranate and peacock.
Beauty, says the sage, is but skin-deep
So, with all this growth and verdancy we
wither for want of fresh fruit and milk’and
vegetable. Or our children do, which is
worse. Eight years ago all these abounded
A splendid milk supply was served twice
daily in sealed jars. Lau Ivee or Wangy
Hoo came each flay, his baskets piled high
with fruit and “vege” and all one could wish
in the way of salad, the dew still sparkling
on it. Also eggs and market-stuff came down
the line in abundance. But it has all ceased
One blames the Administration. Yes, saws
the other, but the unions demanded ’white
labor. At any rate, the Government deported
Lau Kee and Wangy Hoo and 40 more of
his tong at the cost of much good Aus-
tralian gold. And white labor promptly
went to work at Vestey’s !
The Batchelor (Government Experimen-
tal) Farm has done nothing. All its
product is a crop of bills. Once upon a time
it did produce a pumpkin, which was sent
(by special train) to Darwin—just to show
them ! There it disappeared. Some dastardly
Greek, no doubt! Ten miles further along
the line an old foreigner works a garden. It
brings him in a clear thousand a year.
Once upon a time, too, the Botanic
Gardens were the delight of Darwin. We
basked on the shady lawns and gloried in
the possession. Special trains were run
from the wharf for tourists. All that is
gone. They are now a cow pasture—a
pasture that produces no milk; at any rate;
none for the mob. And Kahlin Beach, too.
It is the only good and easily-accessible
beach near Darwin. Its really fine fore-
shores were gazetted a Native Compound.
“Trespassers will be prosecuted.” So, though
we live by the seaside, there is no beach now
for our babes to play on. But there is plenty
of dirt and disease to blow across Darwin
from the compound.
There is a hospital, managed and con-
trolled by the Commonwealth Government
at gregt and totally-unnecessary expense to
the taxpayers. Its conduct rests entirely
with the Melbourne-appointed surgeon anil
staff. At present the community is fortunate
in each. The State hotels bump badly.
Each has a manager who is relegated to the
position of a sort of managing-clerk. He
has no say in the brand or quality of liquor
stocked nor in the running of the hotel he
is supposed to be responsible for. The
Department is headed by a supervisor. His
salary is £750, or thereabouts, a year. There
really should be nothing for him to super-
vise. To give it its due, the Administration
had no say in this appointment.
As to population, Darwin to-day is an
army of directors, inspectors, supervisors
and advisors, reinforced by battalions of
typists and chief clerks. And Greeks and
other outlanders. Under the South Aus-
tralian administration we had none of this.
And it was much easier to get anything
done. But the Darwin folk, the truly-
Darwinites, smile patiently, biding their
time. They say they begin to feel more
settled. There are good times coming, what
with the new wharf probable and
(especially) the overland railway. A
really nice man, a returned soldier, too, at
the Residency. (No longer is it “Government
House.”) And some day Dr. Strangman
may come back. The real Darwinite is a
broad-shouldered, deep-chested man or
woman; and what an advertisement for
Tropical Australia ! The third generation is
some of the finest to be found in any part
of the British Empire. The Territory has
little or no sickness. What it gets it
imports.
Up to eight years ago Darwin was a
delightful place to live in. “Society” con-
sisted of two divisions, the Ins and Outs.
Folk had to be very impossible to be Out
Domestic help there was in plenty. The
standard of living was much higher. Then
Social Unrest, which riots over the world
these days, dropped in and voiced its resent-
ment of mushroom vice-regality and its
satellites. Then Darwin said what it thought
of Mr. and Mrs. Officially-Just-Arrived
■who patronised the Rest —the Rest being the
real Territory. It was nothing to write
about, really. Just a little lack on the part
of the Newly-Arriveps of tact and savoir
faire and, say, training. But it was enough-
We women, we are only human, n hen
there were no maids or housemen to be got
for love or money, frying trek-steak over a
smoking stove at tropical midday in a cor-
rugated-iron kitchen did not make for fine
feeling. Nor did a little desultory washing
and scrubbing assistance unwillingly given
bv an unreliable and dirty Binghi, who came
and went as he felt inclined; and often
stayed away for days at a stretch. One
had no redress. It was Binghi or nobody
And Government House was so lug and
cool and beautiful, with electric lights and
electric fans in every crevice (we others
wrestled with kerosene lamps). And a house
staff of splendid Chinese servants; and
tennis-courts and horses and cars. And a
coachman to take one driving. And no-one
at the war. And what had they done to
deserve all this? And £6OO a year to enter-
tain with. And —endless ands.
At last even the North Australian, who is
the most easily pleased person in the
universe, stood up and hit out. And all the
ands crashed.
S. S. SEVERN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Repudiation.
“There were three promises embodied in the
Federal compact. Two had been honored. “n e
remained to be redeemed. Westralia had been
promised that the transcontinental railway would be
constructed ; South Australia that the Northern lerri-
tory would be taken over. Both these promises had
been fulfilled. But the third promise, which was to
N. S. Wales—that the Federal capital be built
remained to be carried out.’' —Mark, ne ' l
'Federal member from N. S. Wales.
It is just possible that, one of these days,
the law will require candidates to pass some


sort of examination in the Constitution, laws
and finance of their country, so that the
community may be. protected from quack
members just as it is from quack doctors
and bogus lawyers and alleged parsons
whose marriages are not valid. Mark re-
presents the large tribe of half-fledged consti-
tutionalists in a bad form. As a matter of
fact, neither the building of the Westralian
railway nor the taking over of the Northern
Territory was in the Federal compact, nor
was the absurd Metropolis in Two Pieces at
Canberra, though there was, and is, and will
be, unless the Constitution is altered, a pro-
vision that the capital should be in the Ma
State and at least .100 miles from Sydney —
at Armidale, for instance. There is plenty
of time to attend to this provision, for no
one professes that the country is endangered'
or settlement hindered by the delay, and it
has already been attended to up to more than
£1,000,000, though it is the fashion to talk
as if nothing at all was being done. Plenty
of more urgent matters have waited longer.
The Westralian railway, like the selection
of Canberra, was based on an Act of Parlia-
ment, but the work being practically com-
pleted it is beyond recall, which Canberra
isn’t. So the Northern Territory business
is in a category by itself. It wasn’t a
question of the Territory being ‘'taken over”
as a concession or benefit to South Austra-
lia ; it was a question of South Australia
disposing of a vast and rich property to the
Commonwealth instead of to a syndicate, and
doing it for a .specified price. Statistician
Ivnibbs summarises the transaction (Offi-
cial Year Kook No. 11, page 1081) .
The Commonwealth assumes responsibility for the
State loans in respect of the Territory, paying the
interest yearly to the State, providing a sinking fund
to pay off the loans at maturity, and paying off the
deficit in respect of the Territory. It also pur-
chases the Port Augusta to Oodnadatta railway and
AGREES To COMPLETE THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
Transcontinental Railway from Port Darwin to
Port Augusta.
The completion of the railway and the as-
sumption of certain liabilities were the
price. The value given consisted of 024
miles of completed line and a property nearly
twice the size of N. S* Wales, and much
better watered, including a great harbor and
10 rivers over 100 miles long—one 225 and
another 350 miles, and including much navi-
gable water. The unfinished railways paid
badly, but they weren’t worse than a lot of
others in N. S. Wales and elsewhere—in
fact, they were better than some until the
Federal Government loaded them with ex-
penses at the same time that it filled the
Territory with Excellencies and cocked bats.
S. Aus. originally drifted into possession of
the Territory when both Queensland and
N. S. Wales refused to carry it and it was
liable to be sold to a co. or used as a new con-
vict settlement or made a nigger dependency
of Calcutta. The province refused all offers
to sell or lease it to nigger syndicates or to
trade a great part of it off on the land-grant
railway system. Now it begins to wish it
had done a gigantic deal with Private Enter-
prise, for it would at least have had part of
the freehold left and would have retained the
lordship of the property and have got its
railway. As things stand, it has lost the
property and has so far been diddled out of
the railway. In many quarters the idea of
keeping faith is treated as a joke ; and sorry
politicians of the Mare type talk as if there
was no obligation and S. Aus. had been paid
in full. In fact, repudiation seems to be
taken almost as a matter of course by
people who talk as if the Canberra capital
was a holy obligation and the heavens would
fall if it wasn’t attended to on the instant.
There is no alternative to the railway, but
X. S. Wales is full of better alternatives
than Canberra—all perfectly lawful ones.
Pushing: Him Out.
When once a man is “put on the land,”
with a towering mortgage, on his head and
a time-payment plough tied to his feet, the
paternal Government feels that it has, to
some extent, got rid of him. He can’t strike,
for there is no one to strike against but him-
self. He isn’t likely to be an unemployed
problem, for at the worst he can keep himself
and -his horse busy in drought time
carting water for absurd and impossible
distances. He won’t demonstrate out-
side Parliament House. He isn’t a 48-
or 44- or 40-hour per week problem, for
he has the whole 168 hours per week to
work in. He isn’t much of a child-labor
question, for he works his children pretty
much, anyhow: or a drainage and sanitation
question, for the slops and debris can be
thrown out of the door; or a housing ques-
tion, for his mode of living is his own
business. He serves as an excuse for borrow-
ing when he is being put on the land, and
there is much satisfaction and much
boom in the handling of loan money,
and the Ministry gets or takes great
applause for “promoting settlement.” After-
wards he is an excuse for railway
building, which means more loans to
spend, more boom, more employment at high
wages, more unearned increment, and more
applause because the Ministry is “opening up
the country.” When failure comes along
liberal help can be given out of loan funds,
and the Ministry gives loud cheers for itself
because it has stood by the agricultural in-
dustry in a broad, statesmanlike spirit at a
time of need. Therefore it was quite in keep-
ing that this sort of thing should have loomed
up large in the N. S. Wales press while the
election campaign scrambled to its end:—
Mr. Holman said that, in spite of four years of
war during which there was no market, and in
spite of the last year of drought in which there
was a market but nothing to sell in that market
—in spite of these years of repeated and concentrated
misfortunes, the wheat-growers of N. S. Wales,
instead of being driven into bankruptcy and ruin,
as they would have been if a less courageous Gov-
ernment had been in power, were still on their farms
facing the future with every prospect of success.
It requires a good deal of assurance to tell
a tale like that. Measured by area, half the
wheat-growers of Holman’s State are no
longer on their farms, but have disappeared
inside four years—either vanished altogether
or vanished as wheat-growers. This wasn’t
entirely because “there was no market.”
The local market was there as usual, and
but for the murder of country manufacturing
industries, and consequently of country towns,
it would been much bigger and more access-
ible. And bad as things were, a foreign
market did exist. In 1915-16 Australia man-
aged to get away £13,3i 4,511 worth of wheat
and £3,463,363 worth of flour, which w-p
nearly twice as much as ever it .shipped before.
Still the export was insufficient, for the two
years 1915-17 were the culmination of a
wheat boom such as Australia had never
heard of —a boom fostered by politicians who
urged the farmers to shove in gigantic crops
to feed the armies in Europe and lacked the
sense or knowledge to build ships to carry
the goods to Europe. Half the industry hav-
ing disappeared so far as N. S. Wales is con-
cerned, the other half is being maintained:
(1) By having its products carried by rail as
usual at less than half the cost of carriage;
(2) by Government assistance out of loans
for fallowing; (3) by a grant of £1,000,000
out of loans; (4) by a guai’antee of a price
for the crop ; by the advance out of loans
of £2,000,000 to repair roads and incidentally
supply work for distressed folk in the
country; (6) by the expenditure of many
millions of loans to put new heavily-subsi-
dised, heavily-mortgaged men on the land by
way of partly making up for the defection
of the old men (this is called repa-
triation) ; (7) by the incessant building of
new railways which are not expected, at the
present cost of loans, labor and material,
to even pretend to pay working expenses, in
order to give agricultural settlement an
artificial shove and galvanise the corpse into
sitting up. It is a heartless business, this
pushing of men on the land further and fur-
ther out. further and further away from the
One Big City, when the little industrial
towns which should furnish a local market
are not only not growing but are dying.
The Bagmen Choose a Capital.
Just when some of the old gang in Parlia-
ment were getting up a fresh heat over the
sacred obligation to build a capital at Can-
berra, and talking ns if it wasn’t being built
already, a new factor appeared in the game.
It was the Associated Chambers of Com-
merce. This body had been holding high
converse at Sydney on matters relating to
the middleman interest, and it decided,
among other things, by an almost three to
one vote, that the Federal capital should be
planted in Sydney, the biggest city and the
one where the biggest importing interests lie.
Real Australians want to see the country
dotted with prosperous little manufacturing
towns so that the farmer may have customers
close at hand, and may buy his boots and
clothes from makers close at hand, and dis-
pense both in buying and selling with the
city middleman and his foreign ships and
his profiteering foreign principals. The whole-
sale trader in imported goods, on the other
hand, wants the fewest possible manufac-
tures and the biggest possible trade, and his
interests centre in the coastal city. The
Australian seeks to spread population over
the land. The alien-souled trader wants to
concentrate it around his warehouse door so
that it may be handy to trade and job with.
There is a notable streak of the Semite in
him, and his dream is of another Carthage
or Sidon or Tyre, with the hinterland as a
mere subject excrescence. The genuine Aus-
tralian at least talks decentralisation —the
cutting up of the land into manageable
States with little inland capitals where
politics won’t be dominated by the roar of
the importer and the brassy assurance of the
foreign middleman ; where there will be an
outlook on the country’s interests and the
Legislature can’t be overawed by demonstra-
tions of wharf-lumpers. The foreign trader
hopes for a system by which six big cities
will, by their congestion and their inflated
voting power, control the six States, and he
will control the six big cities. Melbourne is
the lawful temporary capital as provided by
the Constitution, and Sydney would be an
unlawful capital as the Constitution stands.
But Sydney is the centre of the Freetrade
and importing cult, and would be an ideal
bagman’s metropolis. Even if the capital
were only shifted to it temporarily, with
all the Federal officialdom added to its
population it would become so overwhelm-
ing that the rule of the One Big Bagman
City might be fastened on the country for
another generation. The interests of Aus-
tralia demand that it shall not be done.
♦
Will the Boche Bolsh?
The lightning revolution which has just
collapsed in Germany was greeted with
sour disfavor in Australia. Yet the alter-
native may be more serious than most of
us realise at present. For this revolution may
have been one of Germany’s last hopes of
evading Sovietism. In a Republican form of
government a vast number of Huns see
nothing but ultimate disruption. And rightly
perhaps; for the caste system is so in-
grained that the negation of it —governmen-
tally, socially and so on —is almost bound
to lead to chaos. Denikin and Koltciiak
envisaged the same truth as regards Russia
when they began their forlorn-hope cam-
paign against the Reds. Like the German
monarchists they started too late. No
Frenchman believes that the Republicanism
of Ebert and his colleagues is sincere; and
only the Bolshevists in France pretend to
believe in it. That is very significant: it
strongly suggests that Germany’s alleged
Republicans favor Sovietism as the ulti-
mate means of evading the colossal debt
which their country has incurred. The
Soviet Republic which was declared in Ber-
lin a few days ago may, it is true, come to
nothing. It is possible that not enough
Germans yet realise what they are in for
during the coming years. But when they do
realise their prospects an attempt at Com-
munism on the Russian model is so likely as
to be almost inevitable. Meanwhile move-
ments are in progress to infect first France
and then the United Kingdom with the new
doctrine, the idea being that if all Europe
becomes communised no one will demand in-
demnities from anyone. The Conservative
London Spectator said in a recent issue:
These men [Lenin and Trotsky] realise that
their power in Russia cannot long be maintained
unless they can convert the rest of Europe. .. .They
are rich enough, fanatical enough and have a
sufficient instinct of self-preservation in them to
believe that they can and must practise propaganda
in Europe, and above all in Britain.
Australia has several lessons to learn from
the situation even in its present stage of
development. One is the necessity of check-
ing the propaganda work on behalf of
Sovietism which is likely to start in a big
way everywhere once Bolshevism is officially
recognised by the Powers as Russia's form
of government. Another is the danger to
the State of the bad employer, the swindling
tradesman, and the rich man who flaunts
his wealth. And, above all, the anti-Bol-
shevik arguments most likely to appeal to
the Australian temperament should be put
forward. It is not so much necessary
to establish that Bolshevism stands for
murder and rape. These crimes may be only
its adjuncts, as they are the adjuncts of
war and of every other form of disorder on
a big scale. What it is necessary to urge
is that it is anti-National. It accepts the
Brotherhood of Man principle, making no
distinction between the colored man and the
white. The Australian is strongly National-
ist and racially exclusive. Also he is
strongly individualist and a worker —essen-
tially a competitive type. The possible vir-
tues of Bolshevism are therefore likely to
repel him almost as much as its known
vices. But however we regard it the thing
has to be faced seriously.
«,
Friendship First, and Damn the
Regulations.
The Australian Permanent Army has always
been a more or less rag-time institution.
There was a vague idea abroad before 11)14
that it did nothing and would never have
anything to do, and that it should be remu-
nerated accordingly. It has never enjoyed
a pension scheme, though pensions are given
to every other army in the British Empire.
The pay both of officers and of other ranks
is so meagre that it is impossible for the
thriftiest of warriors to put by enough for
his old age. The outcome is a scandalous
state of affairs which has been greatly inten-
sified by the war. It goes without saying
that the flower of the regulars rushed into
the A.I.F. when the Great Row began. The
best of them did wonderfully well. Of the
59 generals of the A.I.F. 20 were perma-
nent men. Duntroon poured a stream of
brilliant youngsters into the field year after
year. On the other hand, the permanent
forces notoriously supplied a number of
failures. In addition, a few permanent men,
for reasons good, bad and indifferent,
declined to face the cannon’s mouth. The
reason usually given was that they were
physically unfit. But under the regulations
any officer or man who is found unfit for
active service must at once retire: and the
medical examinations are supposed to be
made every year. All these incapable fight-
ing men were kept on the strength of their
units, since, owing to their financial posi-
tions, it would be barbarous to put them
off it. Their numbers were augmented pre-
sently by the “dud” permanent men who
had been returned as useless. Every one of
them is back at his old job in the perma-
nent army. After the fighting hdd ended
the successes began to drift home. In addi-
tion to White and Ciiauvel, whom we all
know about, there came men on whom little
limelight has fallen —Bkown. who went
away as a gunner in the R.A.G.A. and
returns a captain with an M.C.; Smith.
formerly a corporal and now a major and
D. 5.0.: Robinson, also originally a regular
corporal and now a lieut-colonel with a
D.S.O. and bar. Under section 22 of the
Defence Act, tvhich section was in force
when these men left, they would have been
entitled to-day to retain the rank, pay and
privileges won by them “for distinguished
service in the field.” But the Section was
wiped out in their absence, and some of
them have returned to find the jobs which
should have gone to them in the possession
of men who weren’t considered fit to hold
any job on the other side. Without a single
exception these men of proved worth are
back where they started from five years ago.
It is natural, and even in a sense admirable,
that the senior permanent officers should
stand by those with whom they have messed
and lived for so many years. But the coun-
try which is finding the money should have
a say in the matter. And those who have
earned their rank by their services if ever
men did should be considered. This paper
is waiting interestedly to see what line of
action the various alleged “Diggers’ friends”
in the Australian Parliament propose to
take in the matter. So far they have been
as impassive as statues.
.
Our Big River’s Steady Job.
A Bulletin man has a look at it:—
A 150-ton lock-gate being swung into position
by a fussy engine showed us that, while the dis-
tant cities forget and the river people argue irriga-
tion v. navigation, the engineers have been driving
along with steel, concrete and steam. Australia
will wake up one day to find that the work is done
and the wandering Murray handcuffed to the vine-
yards and orchards that sit on its banks from Mil-
dura in Victoria to Waikerie in South Australia.
Because the Australian Dried Fruits Association
reckoned its case strong enough to stand investiga-
tion from all angles, it loaded 55 pressmen on a
special train which started one hot afternoon from
Spencer-street. All night long the train climbed
upwards through the State, making towards the
furthermost dot on the Victorian railway map. By
request the travellers were up early to see the sud-
den transition from the arid mallee country to the
irrigated area. It was very striking. In the grey
dawn the stunted scrub looked the driest and most
hopeless vegetation on a forgotten earth. At inter-
vals of miles a ghostly sheep picked amongst
dwarfed trees. Then suddenly the dry waste became
flourishing orchards, and tired eyes rested gratefully
on the vivid green of wide-flung vineyards. Cosy little
homes sprang forward to meet us at friendly intervals.
The Murray that we could not yet see had touched
the good red soil with its magic. So we came through
to the inland river-city of Mildura. We found it
full of optimists and motor-cars, and for eight days
the optimists used the motor-cars to show us pump-
ing stations, packing-sheds and “blocks” in all
stages of growth. At one interval in a pilgrimage
of instruction that stretched from Mildura to Adel-
aide, the string of cars whirled away into 30,000
acres Of dry virgin country soon to be irrigated
and occupied by returned Diggers. The experienced
growers from Mildura and the younger settlements
murmured enviously at the richness of soil which to
the inexperienced eye looked dry as the outside
of a bank. The returned men of Gallipoli, Egypt
and France who secure holdings at Red Cliffs ~aie
going to be much envied.
Undoubtedly there is to be great planting and grow-
ing and the A.D.F.A., with publicity-director C. J.
P E Gabis working as only an enthusiast can, is try-
ing to educate Australia regarding the high food-
ralue of its fine products. It is no use growing
fruits if someone won’t buy and eat them, and Aus-
tralia’s production will jump this year from 13,000
to 18,000 tons. With new areas gradually coming
into bearing, the figures will move up rapidly; so
the far-sighted A.D.F.A., remembering the duty of
3d. per lb. which helped the industry on to its feet,
has sought the goodwill of the Australian consumer
during the war by reserving sufficient fruit to
meet local requirements at the low fixed prices
before accepting any of the higher rates offered
from abroad. (The A.D.F.A. claims that the
prices to the consumer in Australia ranged from 3d.
to Is. 6d. per lb. less than was paid by other coun-
tries.) In 1919, when, without notice, the Govern-
ment lifted the embargo on export, growers outside
the A.D.F.A. sold to speculators, who shipped the
fruit and made big profits. It is claimed that the
speculators even bought from the grocers at con-
sumers’ prices ar.d did handsomely out of it. Natu-
rally that angered the men who had grown the fruit,
and to exclude the speculator the present season's
prices have been advanced from 2d. to 2sd. per lb.
over last year’s. But the A.D.F.A., having protected
itself, guarantees prices on the basis of last season’s
sales if the Commonwealth Government can get all
exporters of dried fruits to make statutory declara-
tions that Australia’s cupboard is well supplied with
dried fruits until next season’s harvest is safe. That
cumbrous alternative looks as if it would break down
in the first lap. Meanwhile the Australian con-
sumer pays and makes appropriate remarks about
the food-speculators who have driven the A.D.F.A.
to this defensive step.
When the Old World drops its gun and gets back
to its vines, the overseas markets that the Aus-
tralian speculators have been so eager to exploit
for their own benefit will be loaded with fruit from
the Mediterranean, which is much closer and has
lots of cheap labor. Then the returned Digger in
any of the settlements strung along the Murray will
find another fight on. In his spare time he will
probably pray for vegetarianism. Even with the
A.D.F.A. distributing its cookery-books with both
hands, Australia will not be able to eat two pounds
of sultanas instead of one, and Christmas will come
only once a year as usual. Of late irrigation blocks
in full bearing have changed hands at from £l5O
to £3OO an acre. That sort of thing is possible
when there is a jolly irrigationist at hand who is
able to swear that his block (virgin, scrub-covered
country 10 years ago) could now pay a dividend on
£BOO an acre! Still the lonely irrigationist who
lately sold out and bought into the hotel business
must have doubted whether the day was going to
be as rosy as the dawn.
Meanwhile the big pumps along the river keep
drinking up the grey-green Murray water and lifting
it on to the trees and vines and the places where
there will presently be more trees and vines to com-
plicate the great dried-fruits problem. But it will
only be a problem so long as the consumers who
ought to be in Australia making its woollens and
its machinery and its cotton goods remain in some
foreign country, helping its husbandmen and paying
tribute to its tax-gatherer instead of ours.
Bumping a Vested Interest.
“Solomon Malaprop” reintroduces his old
friend:—•
The. Anzac Tweed Industry, which is commend-
able both as an Australian affair employing Aus-
tralian materials and as a returned soldiers’ affair,
makes some progress. There are now six looms
working in the cramped Melbourne premises, and a
great struggle is being made to find room for 25.
What the management really wants is room for
500, but that is a matter for the dim future.
Anzac tweed, sold direct to retailers, is cheaper aim
better than the alien goods. Yet it doesn’t boom.
In the first place, as there are no capitalists or
shareholders or profiteers in it and no dividends
to collect, it is nobody’s business. The Labor
party in politics should enthuse over it as answer-
ing to a Labor ideal. But the party is so good
at denunciation and so bad at details, so used to
oratory and so unused to organisation, that it is
as unhandy in the matter as a kind-hearted gorilla
with a human baby. Besides, it likes big things
with a great dashing around of loan money. The
Government also prefers things with big loan money
and long speeches in them. One half of it is, or
was, frankly hostile to any new Australian industry.
The other part has always been chary of any serious
attack on the huge importers’ monopoly. In that
respect it exactly resembles the Labor party, which
never attacks the importing interest either. That
interest doesn’t much object to proprietary factories
like the old tweed mills and hat mills, because
the importers sell their goods for them. The makers
might do a little direct trade in the city, as
Anzac is trying to do, but when they are big
enough to have to hunt for country customers they
find that the average country store is more or less
“tied” to the “warehousemen.” The result is that,
though Geelong has five mills making Australian
tweeds, Geelong can’t get a suit of the material
except through great importing firms, mostly with
their headquarters in. England—unless they steal
the stuff. Anzac tweed ought to be the centre
of an attack on these particular middlemen that
Labor and other politicians treat with such polite-
ness. It has made an honest . attempt to do
without them, though it may end by having to let
them in as capitalists and first robbers so as to
get money for extension. It doesn’t ask for a
railway or a big £10,000,000 dam, or for seed
wheat, or for carriage of its produce at half rates,
or for recognition as the backbone of the country.
It doesn’t even ask for a loan of many millions
for an indefinite number of years, though it could
do with a little money for a comparatively short
time. It aims at helping to supply a dead-sure
local want, not at raising something that will
have to be sent on spec, by profiteers’ ships, to
a market 12,000 miles away. It is so small that,
unless it grows, it really doesn’t matter; but it is
interesting as showing how little sympathy there
is from any party for an affair which bumps against
the biggest, most potent and most silent vested
interest in Australia —a vested interest which
admitted to the Fair Profits Commission in Mel-
bourne last week that it charged the retailer 13s.
6d. for Marrickville tweed supplied by the mill at
6s. 6d.
♦
“There Was a Time.”
Dear Bulletin, —With that title “P.0.M.”
(B. 11/3/’2O) drew a picture of a past time
when even “the poor of England had roast,
capon at one end of the table and roast beef
at the other”; and he went on to say : ‘Tt
all has a meaning and a clear one. That
fourteenth century marks the very top of
the wave of individualism and of individual
responsibility.” All very well in a small
population and a wide world ! But what
abou.t.a lav: population and a narrowed


SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Easter number of THE BULLETIN
will be on sale on WEDNESDAY,
MARCH 31.
d
yiusfraJicL
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections apd Cool Drinks to
yonr fancy.
Say or ’Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE DINING HALL, A LA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Slipper. Latest Music.
*
mi
world? The fourteenth century still had
great common* on winch to run the roast
beef and the capon free of' charge. Grass
was still a native herbage which needed
neither ploughing nor sowing. The forests
were still huge and free to the baconer.
I tents were peppercorn at most; and on
peppercorn rents you can have meat to your
pepper (instead of just onions and dump-
'd ugs without meat) and pepper to your
meat. You do not need to go back to the
fourteenth century for this kind of thing.
We had it all here in the days before aliena-
tion of public lands and increased population
asking for available small areas. Give us
back the free land, and we’ll ask “P.0.M.”
to the roast beef and capon. Aye, and even
to the “frothing tankard”; only it will be
a tin pannikin, and the froth will come from
native hops or wild centaury. All “P.O.M.’s”
argument just goes to show that wide spaces
mean wide freedom, wide tables, and. occa-
sionally. wide mouths. (Though I will
grant the last are not confined to wide
spaces.) As to the other side of the pic-
ture, the poor slept on straw along with the
fleas, the dogs and the pigs. The game laws
were still in force, and transportation of
the very poor asking for something human
was just about to come into full blast in the
Indies and the Carolinas. —Yours, Mary'
Gxi-more.
. ♦
Home Rule for Syria.
More trouble brewing in what the English-
man calls the “Near East”: —
A cable message that “the Emir FKiser has been
crowned King of Independent Syria amid much re-
joicing,” has in it the material for another disturb-
ance. Fejsui/s army had as much to do with hurling
the Turk and his legions from Syria as almost any
other. It was first into Tripoli. The Emir, who
is as fervently Nationalist as Dr Valera himself,
promptly started to govern the surrounding country
and was only persuaded to desist by a promise
on the part of General Alleby that England
would see at the Peace Conference and else-
where that he and 1113 people got their
national rights. Feistjl thereupon hauled down
his flag and went back to his job as one
of Allenby’s generals. Among the unpleasant
tricks played by the Russian Bolsheviks on the
Old Diplomacy was the throwing open of the Petto-
grad archives to the'serutiny of the world. In a tail
pile of “secret treaties” which were thus exposed
was one made early in 1915 between Britain and
France. The practical effect of it was that if
Downing-stveet scratched the back of French Jingoism
in the matter of Syria, official France would do its
best for the Empire in Egypt, Ireland and other
troubled parts. France has a particularly difficult
problem to face in the Hedjaz regions. Its only
Ulster, so to speak, is in the Lebanon. In Damas-
cus the French are detested, and likewise in Beyrut,
which was also taken from the Turks by
Feisul’s troops, and also yielded up to the
British on the same terms as Tripoli was
handed over. Broadly speaking, the Arabs all
through Northern Syria are determined to have
nothing to do with the French. They asked for an
American mandate, and they would have welcomed
a British one (though, in point of fact, they are
quite capable of governing themselves, and are well
aware of it) ; but the French imperialists regard ail
Syria as part of their share of the war's proceeds.
The awkward position is that if Britain denounces
the bargain made between itself and M. Piciion five
y ears ago every Frenchman will be scandalised
whether he is an expansionist or not. And already
•the feeling towards Britain as reflected, even in such
sober sheets as the Temps is growing steadily less
enthusiastic. On the other hand, if the agreement
made between Allenby and the new King of Syria
is olishonored, Downing-street’s reputation for com-
mon honesty will suffer another severe shock, more
especially throughout the Moslem world. If France
decides to fight for Syria, will Britain stand aloof
and be pointed at by white Europeans for a traitor?
Or will it help its former ally against its late
mercenaries and arouse the fury of Mohammedatis
already exasperated at the collapse of the Ottoman
Empire? The situation is typical of the sort .f
little legacy vhich was left to the world by the
secret diplomats.
-+
A passionate feature of the N.S.W. elec-
toral campaign has been the demands of
Storey and Dooley and Corcoran and
Botch and others that the Premier should
meet them openly and manfully in debate on
a public platform. It is assumed by a large
class, not by any means all Laborites, that
a point has been scored against Holman’s
courage or confidence when the challenge is
ignored. It is a sign of political degeneracy
or inefficiency that such challenges should
be possible, and especially that they should
be common. The man who is responsible
in the last resort for all the multifarious
public activities of a great State hasn't time
for brawling on platforms. He has no
leisure for shouting competitions in ill-ven-
tilated halls, with anybody who can crowd
in acting as judge and referee. Nobody
expects the manager of the A.M.P. Society
to hold debate on a platform with the man-
ager of the National Mutual, or the
B.N.S.W. man to hold tempestuous public
discussion with the Commercial Bank man.
They aren’t even required to sit all day in
a public place answering queries and holding
discussions with the policy-holders or share-
holders and being orated at by depositors.
The idea that the people who run public
affairs should be gramophones first and cap-
able workers as a sideshow is one of the
blunders of the system.
“Copabella” : Shortage of trucks at Lara has
been chronic for months, and all the pleas of
Geelong district’s eight members of Parlia-
ment have not availed to stir the Depart-
ment to more than a postcard saying “ lour
complaint will receive attention”; but it
was made clear through local officials that
the Commissioners simply had not the trucks
to send. To add to the cockies’ annoyance,
when at intervals the Department did man-
age to dig up an odd truck or two they
were snared by an agent for a monopolist
lime co. under some preference clause. Mean-
time chaff and grain piled up at the station,
and the rats, mice and sparrows had the
gavest time. At last a cocky, driving in 10
miles, found instead of the expected rake of
trucks to his order a miserable couple—and
those earmarked for the preference customer!
The exasperated Hayseed decided on direct
action: he pulled five loads of hay across
the lime co.’s ramp, effectively blocking its
use and that of the favored trucks it guarded,
sent his horses home, and, having a sense
of publicity, got promptly into touch with
the two district and three metropolitan
dailies. Next day a railway department
TWO THROWS OF THE DICE.
UNCLE SAM: “You don’t put them thar goods on this ship!"
THE WORLD: “But your 'skipper’s already signed for them."
UNCLE SAM: “We don’t take any notice of the goldarn skipper ."
THE WORLD: “Well, what d’you have a skipper for? So’s you can get two chances ,
eh—his and your own?”
which had affirmed that it had no trucks to
spare for Lara dropped no less than 18
where the very smell of a truck was almost
forgotten. What pleas, argument, logic, fair
treatment, rotting produce, quiet string-pull-
ing and common justice could not do in
months, direct action and a few headlines
in the dailies did in about five hours; The
flooding of the little place with 18 trucks
was on a par with the rest of the months’
bluffing: it was a trick to discredit the pro-
test by asserting that trucks the day after
the complaint were lying idle in Lara yard.
But the cocky grows less green every har-
vest. A motor carried the fiery cross and
the news from Ghent round the farms, and,
working all day and into the night 35 cocka-
toos loaded every one of those trucks before
midnight. This is the railway system which
its own experts reported the “best managed
in the world” or something.
Compulsory arbitration has failed, so the
Federated Chambers of Commerce have decided
almost unanimously at their Conference. But
has it ever had a fair trial? The other week,
when the marine engineers were on strike,
the Government ended the trouble in about
48 hours. Instead of taking similar steps
on previous occasions politicians have en-
couraged workmen to strike and go on strik-
ing till they got what they wanted, whether
it was a fair tiling or not; and employers
got so much out of the “settlement” on at
least two occasions that they, too, were
encouraged to prefer that brand of “arbitra-
tion.” The people who have every reason
to want the other sort are the vast army who
are not concerned at all as employers or
employees in any particular trouble, but are
tremendously concerned as customers —as
in the coal-miners’ strike, for instance. If
compulsory arbitration is abolished, then the
way will be opened for any number of
“settlements” similar to the one Hughes and
Judge Edmunds made in the coal trouble;
and the public will be bled without mercy—
butchered to make a politician’s triumph.
“Kismet” : A section in Papua desires to
follow in the footsteps of Darwin and re-
move its Governor. There is this difference
between the two cases. Gilrutli had a fair
field and no favor. The position was his to
make or mar. He had no ready-made
enemies. Murray has had a hard row to
hoe from the start. His appointment fol-
lowed on a Royal Commission, before which
he was chief witness. The Foreign Office
ex-Governor who resigned as a result of this
Commission left several members of his staff
and followers behind him. From them Judge
Murray has had bitter and determined oppo-
sition. Of course it is irritating to traders
and planters to see hundreds of natives loaf-
ing about the villages, provided with free
Government food when they are too lazy to
work their gardens and sago swamps- this
when the increasing cost of living calls for
all the labor one can get. Blit Murray is
not responsible for this. His is no autoc-
racy : he takes his orders from Melbourne.
In him every section of the community finds
a courteous gentleman. His staff is on his
side to a man.
Before anything is settled up over Nauru,
the phosphate island of the Pacific, and cer-
tainly before any of the Commonwealth’s
millions are pledged to pay for it, R. R.
Gamin, who is Hughes’s legal eye, should
be quite satisfied that the co. which it is
proposed to buy out has an equitable title
to all it claims to possess. There _is in
existence a petition signed by the chiefs of
Nauru, “in council assembled,” praying the
King to look into their grievances. The
Germans, they say, seized the island and
formed a co. to work the phosphates, pay-
ing a royalty of a ha’penny per ton. “Ever
since the wresting of the island from the
Germans this co. is carrying on and per-
petrating the same iniquity, namely giving
us one half-penny per ton for phosphates.
The petition is no doubt wildly worded;
but it at any rate makes it clear that not
only the chiefs but the few educated men
of the island believe they are suffering under
a grave injustice. They blame the Germans
for it, in the first place; and they have every
right to ask that, under the administration of
people who take a different view of native
rights, the w r hole business shall be investi-
gated.
The United States Senate, in its best
Josh Billings mood, has accepted the League
of Nations agreement all but Article 10.
This article pledges the Leaguers to stand by
each other against unprovoked aggression,
annexation and robbery—in other words,
against another Hun attempt to own the
world. So Uncle Sam’s cheque promises
everything except payment of the money—
everything except the one thing a cheque is
for.
Holman had a slice of rotten luck, mixed
with rotten management, just before elec-
tion day. He had started a libel action
against a N.S.W. North Coast paper, and.
evidently without knowing the writer of the
alleged libel, was foolish enough, to apply
to the Court for an order calling on the pub-
lisher to disclose his name —a thing papers
hate to do, and which they don’t think it
a fair thing they should be asked to do.
However, in this case, the application was
pressed, and Ferguson, J., concluding appa-
rently that the Premier knew something and
that a hostile politician had made use of
the paper, made an order. And then the
crash came; for the writer turned out to be.
not a politician whom everybody knew, but
a returned soldier whom nobody had heard
of. The old Holman with the genius for
winning friends and elections would have
said, “Sorry, my mistake!” The overworked
Holman fired in, instead, a writ for £5OOO
against the returned soldier, who, so far as
the public could judge, at any rate, was
merely the paper’s humble employee.
A ; ic. Premier Lawson is feeling more
uneasy as the elections approach. Outside
fanatics with influence in the House are
pushing for a poll on Scripture-reading.
Likewise Cold Tea wants him to prove his
wowserism by making local option depend
on a simple majority. Another matter that
is spoiling his sleep is the possible defection
of supporters to the Farmers’ party. Cocky
is all that and more since his 11 in the
Reps compelled Hughes to drag in the
Speaker, Iliggs and an Independent to save
the Government the other day, and the little
triumph has not been lost on the rural
followers of Lawson. One of the suggested
deserters is Oman, but he may bo kept in
the Lawson retinue by the prospect of
bigger chances if the Premier is returned.
Oman’s attitude will determine the behavior
of two or three others, but at present they
are not keen on breaking away owing to the
threat of having Bowser for a leader. That
mild old gentleman is highly regarded by the
Farmers, and if he joins the party, as he
probably will, he will be a big candidate for
commauder-in-ckief. Meanwhile Labor is pre-
paring for battle with the intention of
placing Hayseed last in its affections at the
polls. Hayseed is promised Labor’s third
vote in return for a similar disfavor in the
reeent Federal struggle!
Latest news and guesses from Berlin: —
That blighted nuisance, the Censor, spoils many a
good revolution. Shadowgraph figures have been
dancing on the Hun curtain for days past. The
military rose under ostensible leaders of no import-
ance, presumably with bigger shadows behind them,
but how many of them rose and how high they
rose is doubtful. The object was apparently to
restore the Hohenzollerns, or to establish a military-
republic dictatorship which would tend that way.
The Bonapartes came back by Napoleon the Little
becoming President of a republic and upsetting it,
and William the Less, ex-Crown Prince, might do
the same. The spectral Ebert Government fled from
Berlin and carried its ghostly carpet-bag down south
A spook named Kapp arose and became boss spook.
Then there was an unaccountable pause, and the
shadows danced up and down instead of going
forward. SucTi news as side-stepped the Censor or
was invented by him suggests that the wraith of
Bolshevism or Spartacism rose from the sepulchre,
and the Ebert ghost and the Kapp ghost became
scared lest a third party might annex the spoil
v ’rile they were throwing clouds at each other. So
apparently the revolution is postponed, and there
are two Governments like the two kings of Sparta
or of Barataria, and there is to be an election at
which the biggest shadow will count the vote, and
then or previously or subsequently operations of
some sort will resume. The fact that Prince
Joachim Hohenzollern was drunk for several days
before the misty upheaval, and pervaded the caffe
of Berlin with a crowd of Mohawks throwing crock-
ery at foreigners, suggests that the Kaiser had his
bag packed, and that much bigger and more definite
things were expected than have happened so far.
When Joachim gets drunk again it will indicate
that the struggle is about to recommence. Great
Hun movements, are always heralded by somebody
getting drunk.


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had heen decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will he primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence.'’
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions!
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Federal Government, according to
Prime Minister Hughes, “will not place any
more paper money on the market.” It is to
be hoped that it won’t. On December 31
the issue included £22,992,000 of £lOOO notes.
In the bad times the Government passed to
the banks over £28,000,000 of these and
demanded good money or its equivalent in
exchange. The banks received no interest on
them and were not allowed to use them. In
fact, it was an indefinite forced loan of the
depositors’ money without interest. If the
banks asked how they were to pay their
depositors when their assets were thus
seized without interest, they were probably
told to go and rob or swindle somebody, and
make up the loss somehow, and take the
obloquy and the responsibility. For quite a
long time the Treasury gold reserve wasn’t
enough to redeem this forced loan, and even
at last December, when things were a little
better, if they had been redeemed there would
have been less than £1.000.000 of gold left
in the reserve against £33.000,000 of notes.
It is time to swear off compulsory note-issues,
anyhow. The legitimate issue to meet the
actual wants of the public keeps growing,
but the £lOOO bits of paper were too much
like blackmail or armed solicitation on the
highway.
N. S. Wales Ministerialists ask plain-
tively why the Diggers, for whom the Gov-
ernment has done so much, didn’t rush to
their support. Well, chiefly because the
Digger believes that —outside the Lands
Department, perhaps—the Government has
been bluffing; and any chance it had of per-
suading the Digger that the preference-to-
soldiers law wasn’t more bluff was first
rattled by the appointment of Bryant, who
wasn’t a returned Digger, to go to England
as special immigration agent, and then
knocked out by the Millions Club appoint-
ment of the Premier’s sec. as its secre-
tary and the refusal of the Court to inter-
fere.
There is a nice little row brewing between
Hughes and the woolgrowers. After some
hundreds of thousands, probably millions, of
profit had been lost to Australia, an arrange-
ment has been made between the Com-
monwealth Government and the Sydney tops-
manufacturing concern in which the other
Hughes and J. C. Watson are interested.
The co. is to get 10.000 bales of wool at
once at a price that will, it is expected, work
out at about 2s. per lb., and it is to pay the
Government 80 p.c. of the profit it makes.
On present appearances this 80 p.c. will
amount to over half a million; and the wool-
growers are beginning to claim that money
for the pool. But Hughes is hungry and
has no present intention of letting the squat-
ters get it; and seeing that they have made
millions out of the war and might have made
millions more if their business hadn’t been
mishandled, they may • find that silence is
the better part of discretion.
Some sort of a vote has been taken in the
Eastern division of Papua, and by 75 votes
to 59 it has been decided -that Lieut. -
Governor Murray is no longer the man for
the job. It is possible, however, that no
more importance should be attached to this
vote than to one taken on the same question
at Boggabri. If the matter at issue is the
view Australia takes of its responsibilities
in Papua, then Boggabri has as much right
to be listened to as Moresby. Commonwealth
policy in Papua ought to be put in black
and white. Then Moresby would be en-
titled to be heard as to the manner in which
that policy was carried out by the Lieut.-
Gov. or any other officer. At present it pro-
bably doesn’t know what that policy is, with
the result that part at any rate of the popu-
lation. misled by a dismissed official or
somebody with an axe to grind, may be
attacking Murray for doing his job too well.
Moresby, or a part of it. is demanding
that Staniforth Smith should replace Judge
Murray in Papua. As far as officialdom at
THE PLEDGE.
“He wanted to say to the manufacturers of Australia that they must not think to find a safe
and permanent shelter behind the tariff wall, and think to live all' the rest of their days in sloth-
fulness and ease, and content to browse on the succulent pasture, seeking not to extend their opera-
tions." — W. M. Huohes.
THE NURSE ( nervously ): “Now if I give you this and make you grow Mg and strong
y' goiter promise me y’ won’t go about suckin' it when you’re a man!”
the Home and Territories Department is
concerned, Staniforth Smith can go to
Papua or some other place. There was a
general impression outside that his mission
to the N.T. was to conciliate the exasper-
ated citizens; but from the official point of
view he has done too much conciliating. His
actions and promises in regard to changes
demanded in the State liquor business, police
pay and other odds and ends have put head-
quarters in a hole. Moreover, there is a
feeling that he has overdone the fraternising
with the leading actors in the little depor-
tation drama staged last October. The
really sensible thing, of course, would be to
appoint Nelson to run the Territory. He
knows the place and the people well, is the
strongest man up there, and what he says
goes most of the time.
The British Profiteering Committee has
lodged a protest to the effect that a trust,
largely British, controls 90 or 95 per cent, of
the world’s electric-lamp industry, and sells
at 18s. 6d. lamps that cost 3s. But J.
Bull hasn’t half so much to grieve over as we
have. The 15s. 6d. profit made by selling
lamps in England is spent in England, and
Bull’s Government gets a lot of it. The
15s. 6d. profit made by selling lamps in
Australia is also spent in England and the
Bull Government sets a heap of that also.
Our Government collects none. We can get at
these people and at the shipping and woollen
and linen and carpet and silk and paper and
other profiteers by making the goods for our-
selves. and it might be done if there was a
strenuous 48-hour working week and less
labor absorbed over hopeless crops and the
building of loan works. But it Can’t be done
in any other w T ay. Little popgun Storey
and little pea-rifle Ryan promise to shoot or
gaol the profiteer, in return for which they
want merely an assured three years of office,
and the run of the Treasury, and the ap-
pointment of all officers and a free hand
generally. The spectacle of these pigmies
shooting the electric-lamp trust at 12,000-
miles’ range will be a sight for the gods.
It is given out that all addresses to the
Prince must have this heading:—
To his Royal Highness Edward Albert Christian
George Andrew Patrick David, Prince of Wales, Earl
of Chester in the Peerage of the United Kingdom,
Duke of Cornwall in the Peerage of England, Duke
of Rothesay. Earl of Garrick and Baron of Ren-
frew in the Peerage of Scotland, Lord of the Isles,
and Great Steward of Scotland, K.G., G.M.M.G.,'
M.C., etc., etc.
Must they, indeed? Who said “must”? Not
the organisers of this tour, who know that
the monarchy is battling for its life, and
have sent the carefully-trained young
man to show himself as of the new order
of democratic princes. It might have been
difficult for the old brigade to recognise
this before the Canadian tour: there is no
excuse for the blunder of mistaking it now.
Per cable:—
Stated that the English cocoa firm of Cadbury,
Limited, proposes starting works in Australia.
Stated that the English firm of Cooper Nephews
proposes to start manufacturing sheep-dip in Aus-
tralia.
Stated that similar action on the part of other
English and American firms is likely if the new
tariff is suitable.
Stated that the new English P. and 0. bank will
open branches in all the big Australian cities. Some
new American banks may do likewise.
It seems that everybody is starting a new
industry in Australia except Australians.
Pity Pharaoh the Brickmaker is dead. Aus-
tralia spent nearly £20,000 on imported
bricks last year.
Ex-Senator J. T. Walker gets in a heavy
blow on those who are crying aloud that
Sydney should be made the permanent capital
of the Commonwealth. As such, he points
out. it would be Federal territory, and not
entitled to any representation at all in the
Federal Parliament.
At the final rally before the poll was taken
to see who would give N. S. Wales more
trouble in the Assembly, Premier Holman,
in the Sydney Town Hall, pointed to his
backing and said :
On this very platform, surrounded by the men
who have borne the heat and burden of the day.
Perhaps he was misreported. He may have
said that he had been surrounded by men
who had borne the wheat and burden of the
pay.
With Queensland Premier Theodore on his
way to London to borrow a pyramid ot
money it was necessary to “restore confi-
dence,” so Agent-General Hunter has been
anxiously telling people there that it is all a
myth:—
Mr. Hunter said that, although he was a Queens-
land Minister during' the whole of the war and had
been intimately associated with the Laborites during
the conscription referendum, he had never heard
the slightest hint or suggestion of alleged republican
plans.
Probably, yet a speaker at a Sydney Town
Hall function hailed Ryau in Ryan’s pres-
ence as “the future President of the Republic
of Australia,” and Ryan didn’t make a fuss
about it, not because anybody supposes that
he approves of any such thing, but probably
because he hated to tell a supporter that he
was a fool. Still, it is darned annoying that
these, things should turn up just when a big
loan is wanted, especially as the last Queens-
land loan cost between 6,1 and 6$ per cent.
During February 218 Victorian “estates"
averaging 422 acres each were “resumed,”
and £068,496 was spent, making £4,892,041]
up to date. The old small proprietors were
paid off with loan money and the new and
less experienced ones were put in with loan
money ; and with all the borrowing and the
spending the State got no new land under
cultivation, nor did it supply itself with a
penn’orth of the goods that it now has to
import at the foreign profiteer’s prices.
Early in the war Foy and Gibson, of
Melbourne, decided that there would be
something doing in woollens presently, and
resolved to get going. But when they came
to look for machinery they found that some
of it wasn’t obtainable, and that reps, of
British makers could bold out no hope of
being able to supply it. So they turned loose
two young graduates of the Melbourne
Workingmen’s College on * the problem of
carders, about the most intricate and diffi-
cult of the lot. These the “green” Aus-
tralians turned out all right, but at a cost
much in excess of the price quoted by British
makers when the war began. Foy’s put up
with that and went ahead with their works,
and their home-built machinery enabled them
to have a great run on a great market. They
are still making their own carders, and
now can produce them at about a quarter
of the price asked by British makers to-day.
The so-called “lazy strike” among Mel-
bourne electric tramway employees casts a
nastv shadow on the management. So long
as the regulations were ignored it was pos-
sible for the trams to run to schedule time,
but as soon as the men took to enforcing
them the journey between termini was pro-
longed by 10 to 25 minutes. So the alleged
“lazy” strike has proved that the prompt and
efficient working of the lines is contingent
upon the wholesale fracturing of regulations
which, .seemingly, were drawn up for the
protection not of the public, but of the Trusts.
Thus, if a passenger is jolted off the foot-
board as the result of a sudden application
of what is claimed to be an ineffic.ent brake,
he can be informed, in the event of a claim
for compensation, that he had no right to
be there. The Trust makes such regulations
and then derives revenue from those who
disregard them, and arcuses its servants of
“disloyalty” for carrying them out. ,Of
course there is public inconvenience; but
criticism equally pungent is due to the autho-
rities for making rules which if adhered to
result in chaos.
The Fair Prices Commission in Melbourne
professed to be astonished at the confession
of a Flinders-lane merchant that it was his
practice to mark goods at “replacement”
cost. A lot of nonsense has been talked
about the sins of men who. having old stock
which they bought cheap, charge present high
prices for the goods. That is alleged to be
profiteering of the most villainous kind. The
point is: What is the merchant going to do
when the slump happens? If he tries to
sell at the old high price he will probably
go broke, because somebody who can buy
cheap will get his trade.
The annual conference of the A.N.A., held
at Sale (Vic.), declared in favor of a con-
vention elected by the people to revise the
Federal Constitution. There were 240 dele-
gates present, the largest number that has
ever assembled, and offly about 50, including
Peacock, supported an amendment to have
a mixed convention of 69, chosen partly
by the people and partly by the Federal and
State Parliaments. Lawyer Moir, the new
chief, who scoffs at State frighters and their
forebodings and advocates a large extension
of Federal powers, stressed his view that a
revision conference into which public interest
had not been breathed by direct election
would be doomed to failure, and he just
about hit the mark.
MARS AND MAMMON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘What is the use of having a war if nobody is the
better for it ?’ said a millionaire spinner in the
course of an interview. ‘lf we hadn’t made high
profits,’ the millionaire added, ‘somebody else
would.’ ” — Cable.
What use, I ask, would there have been
In having had a war,
If no spoil to <yur coffers came,
And profits lingered at the same
Percentage as before?
The deaths of thousands were in vain
If dividends reveal no gain.
Though widows weep and orphans moan,
Someone must benefit;
And who more worthy are than we,
Who, while war’s flames from land and sea
The far horizon lit,
Saw to it cotton was not sent
Up more than 98 per cent.
While soldiers fought we stayed at home
And threads of kinship made.
To rob our people we disdained,
The highest prices we obtained
Were by “Colonials” paid.
.At thirteenpence a reel we will
Yet bind the Empire closer still,
Although we waxed exceeding fat,
We were the tools of fate
Who took Pactolus at its flood
When rich with gold and red with blood.
If we must now abate
One jot, then it were time the God
Of War were re-named Ichabod !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


A FORECAST.
View of the Capital site 50 years
hence. In" the picture the Comer-
.tone is still there, but you’ve got to
look for it.
THE PRINCE AND THE STONE.
Among other strenuous things the Prince of Wales is expected to do* during his brief,
visit to Australia is to lay the corner-stone of the Federal' Capital.
Hop’s Understudy rises to the occasion as above. He depicts the Prince (.with others)
in masks for two reasons: First, because the Health Authorities will from force of habit
probably enforce ’Flu precautions; and, secondly, because the artist has not yet (as he
puts it) “got the run” of the Prince’s face.
A STRENUOUS HOLIDAY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
d
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
, Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated). Spelter,
and the following,Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACIvELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, EC. 2
A. J. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
£15,000,000.
THE TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE CONTROL OF
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
EXCEED THIS FIGURE.
Thus Showing the Confidence in which it is held by the Public.
THIS COMPANY OFFERS MANY
ADVANTAGES OVER THE
PRIVATE TRUSTEE.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET SETTING
OUT PARTICULARS OF ITS
METHODS AND CHARGES.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The British Tobacco Co. (Australia),
Ltd.: —
, Dividends.
6 p.c. To Re- Ke-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves, serves.
•lan., £ A A t
1915. . 532,824 89,081 12 p.c.= 438,618 5122 24,-498
1916.. 538,632 89,084 12 „ „ 443,495 5953 30,451
1917.. 536,974 89,084 12 „ „ 447,175 715 31,166
1918.. 589,543 89,084 12 „ ~ 449,562 897 32,063
1919.. 541,951 89.084 12 „ ~ 451,762 1105 33,168
1920.. 544,773 89,084 12 „ „ 454,587 1102 34,270
The feature of that table is the very slender
margin of surplus profits after payment of
dividends. During the past six years
£3,219,708 has been distributed among share-
holders, hut meantime reserves have been
strengthened by only £14,594. Thus it
would appear that a continuance of 12 p.c.
divs. to ordinaries might be quite easily dis-
turbed. The B. T. Co., however, is merely
a holding concern —the mouthpiece fog half-
a-dozen or so older concerns which, though
amalgamated, continued to lead more or less
independent existences, and whose affairs
have remained dark office secrets since the
big concern took over. The B. T. Co.’s
profits, therefore, depend entirely on the ex-
tent to which the directors tap the sub-
sidiary concerns. That these have made
more than ample to provide the holding co.’s
shareholders with 12 p.c. divs. is evident
from the directors’ statement each year that
the published figures “do not include the
co.’s interest in the undivided profits of the
subsidiary cos.” Nobody but those right
inside knows the extent of these stored-up
surpluses. At the general meeting last year
an attempt was made to squeeze a little in-
formation on this point, but beyond the
chairman’s admission that there were sur-
pluses and that they were “well maintained”
shareholders got no satisfaction. Obviously,
under these circumstances, the published
balance-sheets are of little value; they
merely tell shareholders that profits permit
of the payment of 12 p.c. and provide a bit
for the employees’ profit-sharing scheme,
with just enough for reserves to swear to.
For the rest they must trust to the manage-
ment that the affairs of the subsidiary cos.
are in a healthy condition. A lot of people
are apparently well satisfied that the B. T.
Co. is doing very much better than its
accounts admit; shares are being exchanged
at 395., at which price the 12 p.c. div. gives
the investor slightly over half that rate. For
his 395. the investor is purchasing net assets
with a book value of only a penny over the
face value of the share. In other words,
if he is not investing blindly merely on the
prospects of regular 12 p.c. divs., and per-
haps with the hope of something more later
on, he is chancing, if the worst should hap-
pen, that there will be assets in the subsidi-
ary cos. to represent the 19s. per share
which is not covered by B.T. visible assets.
It’s a lot to expect, for, after all, there is
no guarantee that the .subsidiary cos. are
worth even what the published accounts say.
The parent’s interests therein are set down
at something over 4% millions, but whether
there are tangible assets to represent all that
amount, or whether it includes a heavy good-
will loading, is not ascertainable.
The only thing that is clear about this co.
is that, whatever the actual value of its
assets may be, it has shown itself capable of
earning more than sufficient to pay regular
12 p.c. divs. over many years. It is doubt-
ful, however, whether undisclosed surpluses
in the subsidiary cos. have lately been so
large as formerly. Tobacco was declared a
necessary commodity in N. S. Wales nearly
two years ago, with the result that when
the management wanted to increase the
prices of its smokes, it had to satisfy price-
fixing commissions that heavier costs war-
ranted the increases. The fact that the co.’s
applications have been readily granted sug-
gests that the price-fixers, who have seen
more of the inside workings than most
shareholders, were satisfied that, lately at
any rate, there has been nothing very fat
about the huge business. Of course, during the
war years a couple of hundred thousands
of the co.’s best customers were temporarily
lost to it. But the return of the Diggers
must have had a big effect on the figures
during the past 12 months. All that, how-
ever, would show up only in the subsidiary
cos.’ accounts. Perhaps the increased vote
to the employees’ share fund may indicate
the way things have been going:—
1915. . £33,536 I 1917. . £32,285 | 1919 ..£ 19,185
1916.. 38,708 1 1918.. 15,771 j 1920.. 24,989
Probably because it suspected that some day
an attempt might be made to nationalise
the Commonwealth’s tobacco traffic, this co.
thought it wise to get solid with its em-
ployees. During the past six years £104,474
of profits have been devoted to purchasing
shares for its staffs. These shares carry
12 p.c. p.a. (now calling for £19,737), and
employee-shareholders acquire all the privi-
leges of the ordinary holder after they have
held their shares a short period.
Howard Smith, Ltd., proprietors of coal
and shipping interests :
, Dividends. ~
Pref. To Re-
Dec., Profits. (6 p.c.) Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1915.. 30,000 8 p.c~ 111.200 \ l3 553 13 553
Prelim, exes, written off, £425 J
1916.. 221.449 30,000 10 p.c.= 147,169 44,280 57,833
1917.. 195 30,000 10 „ „ 148,597 18,598 76,431
1918.. 196,794 30,000 10 „ ~ 149,790 17,004 98,435
1919.. 201.823 30,000 10 „ „ 150,000 21,823 115,258
This is also a co. of the hush type. Like
the British Tobacco. Co., it is little more than
a holding concern, though it may make a bit
on its own as managing-agent. Anyhow, it
says no more about itself and its family than
the law requires. Six years ago the direc-
tors of the old Howard Smith Co. decided
that it was advisable, ‘‘for several material
reasons,” to separate shipping and coal in-
terests. Australian Steamships, Ltd., there-
upon took over the fleet, and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd., did the same service for
the coal-mines. Howard Smith’s holds all
the steamship co.’s shares, and since that'
subsidiary concern is no longer under any legal
obligation to make its affairs public, its
balance-sheets are not brought into the light
nowadays. In Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.,
however, there are other shareholders besides
Howard Smith, Ltd. —apparently this co.
holds scrip for £932,934 of a paid capital of
£1,191,755 —and Caledonian Collieries is ob-
liged to present its accounts regularly. In
addition to these two cos. Howard Smith’s
has interests in other properties, including
the Invincible, a N. S. Wales western col-
liery which it nowadays manages. Its
revenue is thus derived from these sources: —•
(1) Dividends from Australian Steamships, Ltd.
(2) Dividends from Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
(3) Interests in unspecified cos.
(4) Earnings as managing agents of subsidiaries,
etc. ; and
(5) Income from funds invested otherwise than
above.
When last heard of, Australian Steamships,
Ltd., had a paid capital of £839,023, all but
£5 of which was held by Howard Smith’s.
This, with the £932,934 of Caledonians held,
accounts for £1,772,552 of the £2,047,383
“shares in other cos. at valuation” in the
parent’s balance-sheet. Caledonian Col-
lieries for the past three years has been pay-
ing 6 p.c. p.a. on all shares, and that means
practically £06,000 each year which Howard
Smith’s has collected on its holding of 237,253
prefs. and 095,081 ordinaries. Six p.e. is
a mild-looking return, but, as will be shown
subsequently, it by no means represents the
return on the actual money put ihto the
enterprise. The rates of dividend paid by
Australian Steamships are not disclosed, but
even were the information forthcoming it
would throw very little light on matters in
which the investor is interested.
The Howard Smith balance-sheets show
that after paying prefs. 0 p.c. p.a., and giving
ordinaries 48 p.c. altogether, during the past
live years £115,258 of surplus profits have
been stored up, equal to practically Is. Od.
per ordinary share. In addition there are
the undivided profits of the subsidiary cos.,
and, though in the Caledonian Collieries
there is but a trifle visible, The Bulletin
would be greatly surprised if Australian
Steamships has not been having a good time
during the war years, and that the parent
concern has not visibly benefited to any-
thing approaching the full extent of its net
earnings. A significant fact is that in 1910,
when Howard Smith’s disclosed a record net
profit, it apparently got no dividend on its
Caledonian ordinaries, or, if it did, at most
it was the final 3f p.c. paid out of the coal
co.’s previous year’s profits. All that is
definitely known about Howard Smith’s is
that, according to its sworn accounts, it has
for the past four years made ample profit to
provide 10 p.c. dividends. There is, after
all, no evidence that Australian Steamships
has been piling up a big reserve of undivided
profits, and if it has it is not at all certain
that the accumulation is going to help future
earnings to anything like the extent the
market evidently anticipates. The £1 shares
have recently changed hands at round about
465., the 10 p.c. div. at this price giving a
return of under 44 p.c. It is a stiff price to
pay for an interest in a co. winch effected a
big watering only six years ago. When
the old co. was taken over three-quarters of
a million of alleged internal reserves were
disclosed, and shareholders were handed five
£1 shares in the new concern for every one
previously held. On this vastly increased
capital handsome 10 p.c. dividends have been
paid, and it is unlikely that, in the com-
paratively short, though prosperous, interval
since then the co. has got itself into the posi-
tion of being able to undertake any shuffle,
or even to increase its dividend rate directly,
to an extent that would warrant the present
market value of the shares.
As already remarked, Australian Steam-
ships publishes no balance-sheet, and its pre-
cise position is known only to the few around
the Board table. The record of the other
big subsidiary concern is given hereunder: —
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd:
Dividends. Nominal
Net ( A N To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1913.. 79,721 20,200 8 p.e.= 47,328 12,193 45,290
1914. .101,831 20.200 10 „ „ 60,001 21,030 66,920
(7 p.c.)
1915. . 52,769 17,675 7 „ „ 42,000 60,014
(6 p.c.)
1916.. 17,192 15,150 Nil 2,042 62,050
1917.. 59,131 16,224 6 p.c.= 38,148 4,759 66,815
1918.. 77,666 21,935 6 „ „ 49,570 6,161 72,976
1919.. 71,631 21,935 0 „ „ 49,570 126 73,102
Before Howard Smith’s took over, this coal-
mining enterprise was run by a Scottish co.
whose paid capital was £850,000 and which
had about £25,000 of reserves. Paid capi-
tal is now £1,191,755, but no less than
£842,500 of that was issued as fully-paid
when the new co. was established, flow
much the old Scotch crowd received for
parting with their mines is not ascertain-
able ; but when the Howard Smith people
floated off the enterprise as a subsidiary,
they capitalised it at a figure far in excess
of what they had paid. The “valuation”
was so much in advance of the cost that a
special indemnifying clause was inserted in
the co.’s Articles to protect the directors
who engineered the float: —
The directors are hereby absolved from all liability
or duty to take further steps to ascertain the value
of the property... .and are also further absolved from
all further responsibility in regard thereto... .and
every member both present and future of this co.
is to be deemed to join this co. on the above basis
and to have assented to and agreed to be bound by
all the provisions of the said agreement.
Sq when Caledonian Collieries pays G p.c.
on its ordinaries, the return to Howard
Smith’s represents considerably more on the
actual money it put into the show. But all
the writing-up of Caledonian assets was
apparently taken credit for in the parent’s
reconstruction, and though the Maitland
mines owned by the subsidiary co. have great
prospective value, the Howard Smith share-
holder cannot expect to be fattened for a
long time yet. The mines worked and total
production for the five years to 1918 were as
follows: —
Mined
Acres. (tons).
Greta seam (Maitland) —
Aberdare . . . . .. 4655 2,098.720
Aberdare Central . . . . 188,520
Aberdare Extended . . . . 3998 2,179,760
Aberdare South . . . . .. 2495
Borehole seain (Newcastle) —
West Wallsend 1 f 868,360
West Wallsend Extended .. j OUB4 ( 394.640
Burwood seam (Newcastle) —
Waratah 3214 571,870
Two of the Aberdare propositions were
lately still more or less in the development
stage.
It is impossible to obtain any accurate
idea as to how well Caledonian Collieries is
doing. The balance-sheets are of very little
value. One line alone is inserted to record
the result of operations: “Balance for the
year, £71.632.” Nothing whatever is whis-
pered concerning the amounts provided for
depreciation. But though the disclosed fig-
ures do not indicate that the co. has been
having a very prosperous run, Commissioner
Campbell’s report showed clearly that the
Maitland mines, particularly those backed
by shipping interests, were on a very
good wicket during the war years. In fact,
the field was so well placed that the Com-
missioner found it “impossible to avoid the
conclusion” that the increases in wages and
prices granted by the Federal Cabinet last
year were “unwarranted by anything in the
existing situation.” A further record of
progress as disclosed by the balance-sheet
figures is given for what it is worth: —
1913. 1916. 1918. 1919.
Pref. capital £252,500 £252,500 £365,582 £365.582
Ord. capital 600,007 600,007 826,173 826,173
Liabilities . . 39,710 285,192 154,731 222,380
Collieries, rail-
ways, plant,
etc 898,771 1,099,319 1,255,851 1,353,411
Cash and book
debts . . 42,909 23,908 48,745 62,365
Other assets .. 29,766 84,102 150,618 119,604
Considerable additional capital has been
outiayed on the properties since 1913;
113,082 further prefs. and 226,166 more
ordinaries have been issued and fully paid-
up, bringing in altogether £339,248. The
book value of the properties has meantime
expanded by £454,643, while the 1913 sur-
plus of more or less liquid assets over lia-
bilities of £26,799 has been converted into
an excess of liabilities of £40,411. So besides
the additional capital and accumulated pro-
fits, visible and concealed, which have been
put into the mines, some outside money has
also gone the same way. The 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. by the way, participate equally with
the ordinaries up to 8 p.c.
Manly Hotels. Ltd. (N.S.W.), which
began with a deficit of £2930, representing
preliminary expenses:-^-
To Reduce
Dec., boss. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
£ 2930
1910.. £496 5426
Further preliminary expenses, £54 3480
1911.. 874 4354
Profit.
1912.. 43 £43 4311
1913.. 104 104 4207
1914.. 2782 2782 1425
1915.. 3076 5 p.c. = £1750 1326 99
Lost.
1916.. 1092 H9l
Profit. Reserves.
1917.. 2072 2072 881
To Reserves.
1918.. 2799 7 p.c. = 2450 349 1230
1919.. 3561 8 „ ~ 2800 761 1991
This co. will be more in the public eye in
future, for after 10 years in business its
shares are to be listed on ’Change. Perform-
ances to date have not been brilliant, for
instead of the smooth track which the pro-
moters foretold the management lias found
itself engaged in a sort of obstacle-race. War.
rising costs, early closing and ’flu have all
helped to upset the tips. Last year was the
best so far, but ’flu spoiled some of the most
profitable part of the season. However,
after making what is claimed to be full
allowance for repairs and renewals,' net
profits were equal to just over 10 p.c. of
paid capital. The directors complain that
•‘the perpetuation of the unreasonable hour
of six o’clock closing for a seaside hotel
hampers trade.” But it’s no use kicking, for
Manly and other pleasure resorts are not at
all likely to get preferential treatment. Con-
sidering the weight of the no-liquor move-
ment, hotel managements may well be thank-
ful if they survive the attacks which will be
presently made upon the Trade. Certainly
the public is not likely to concede extended
trading hours, though some provision should
be made whereby the after-six diner might
moisten his food with wines or beers. It is
the man who wants to make a meal of alcohol
who deserves to have his supply cut off when
the dinner bell is due. Manly Hotels, Ltd., runs
the Hotel Pacific, and has a paid capital of
£85,000. But it also has £20,202 of deben-
tures and a small bank overdraft. Owing to
difficult times slow progress lias been made
in lifting the load of debt since the hotel was
opened:—•
1912. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities .. .. £30,330 £24,771 £23,917
Liquid assets . . . . 3,340 6,240 6,505
Excess liabilities .. £26,990 £18,531 £17,412
Buildings, etc £57,678 £56,161 £56,153
After payment of the final div. of £1750, the
balance-sheet improvement over the past
seven years was only £O3OO, shareholders
meantime having had an average of under
2 p.c. p.a. on their investment. Under more
settled conditions they might reasonably look
for something better.
* * * *
The Equitable Building Society
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Divi- Added to
Dec., Profits. dends. Reserves. Reserves.
1906 .. £2774 £2445 £329 £14,694
1907 . . 2431 2155 276 14,970
1908 . . 2541 2257 284 15,254
1909 . . 2504 2303 261 16,515
1910 . . 2573 2779 15,309
1911 .. 3002 2826 176 15,485
1912« . . 2990 2917 73 15,558
1913 . . 3568 3287 281 15,839
1914 . . 3756 3344 412 16,251
1915 .. 3819 3355 464 16,715
1916 . . 3758 3300 458 17,173
1917 .. 3506 3088 418 17,591
1918 . . 3714 3024 690 18,281
1919 . . 3945 3094 851 19,132
Launceston is very proud of its little build-
ing society, which has just been celebrating
its jubilee. During its 50 years it has pro-
vided the incentive for the locals to save
£706,400, representing the amount paid out
on matured shares, and has lent altogether
£1,154,150 to help Launceston acquire its
own home and make improvements. For
the outside investor it has found employment
for £1,836,878 of deposits. Not a bad
record for a little Speck city smaller
than most Melbourne and Sydney suburban
municipalities. Having a very limited field
to operate in, and having already well worked
it, there is not much opportunity now for
quick expansion. Nevertheless, this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures over 20
years shows the extent of the good work
the society is still doing:—
1899. 1909. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Capital . . £56,366 £47,794 £58,575 £44,733 £46,889
Deposits . . 89,336 58,844 55,190 47,949 55,474
Mortgages 146,263 112,540 112,345 96,861 97,316
During the war years business fell off, and
most figures contracted. War Loan opera-
tions, which competed for the savings of the
thrifty, and the general doubt as to the
future were the principal causes. Last year,
however, applications for loans amounted to
£45,214, and £29,926 of this business found
its way on to the books. Repayments came
in so well, though, that the book value of
mortgages advanced only £455. Besides
these mortgages, at Dec. 31 last there was
£24,960 in public securities, deposits and
cash, £ll9B in sundry loans, and premises
and office furniture with a book value of
£2096. The depositors are thus well
secured; to meet £30,514 of deposits not re-


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Batterv
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
Convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a batterv, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. "You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
-Water is nature’s thirst quencher for both man
and beast, and unless your supply is pure when you
receive it, much ill-health may result. Dwellers
in the country suffer the greatest disadvantage, as
they depend mainly on tank and river water, which
very often contains impurities and vegetable matter.
One pound of Aluminoferric will clarify 2000 gal-
lons of water. It will not affect the taste, but will
give you a supply of beautifully clear and pure
water. For further particulars write to William
Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
1] —Advt.
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Call Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, ami
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [8
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter received
from G. H. Odling, Parramatta Road, Sydney, dated
26th March, 1919: “Dear Sirs, —In reply to your
inquiry we have pleasure iri stating that the wood
pipe laid down in our smiths’ shop, which conveys
tiie blast from the fans to the smiths’ forges, has
proved in every way satisfactory. We have not had
to renew any paTt, and the pipe is as good as when
laid down five (6) years ago. (Sgd.) G. H. Odling.’’
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian
Wood Pipe Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road,
Longueville, N.S.W. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
• ♦ * 4
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * *
The ever-increasing wages for labor are causing
more attention to be given to mechanical appliances
for saving labor wherever possible. Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, who
maintain a special engineering department for this
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates of
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pro-
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austra-
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * W *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. IT. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. ’ ’— Advt.
* * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital.. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS-.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals,
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
l heFacif ic Cable Boai d
niiST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary, Deferred. Week-end.
/ 9d. (minimum
(16/-, 20 words)
1/6
I 7d. (minimum
i 11/8, 20 words)
Gt. Britain ~ 3/-
New Zealand.. 41d.
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
U.5.A... ..2/4t02/8 l/2to 2/4{'^ =
1 leek-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
the pacific cable board,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. Citv 1346 (3 lines).
Quean’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 258.'.
J. MILW ARD. Man io-er in ri--,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ~—
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER LeatHer Belting'.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI CD. SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne—Sydney Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.'
presented by very liquid assets there were
the £97,316 of mortgages and £3294 of odds
and ends —assets with a book value of £3
6s. to meet each £1 of liabilities not covered
by cash, deposits and public securities.
Veteran James Barclay has been a director
of the society from the beginning, probably a
record for an Australian public co.
" * # 4
The Queensland bank-clerks have been the
first to get an award through an indus-
trial court. The other day McCawley, J.,
delivered a judgment which provides a mini-
mum of £2OO for employees 21 years of age,
rising by £l5 per annum during the follow-
ing four years and by £2O in each of the
next two, making the salary £3OO at the age
of 26. But when it came to the higher-
salaried men the Court shied; and that per-
haps was the best thing it could do. Another
point of interest about the judgment is that
while present female clerks can be retained
at the rate for typistes, any -women engaged
in future must get the full male wage.
Which means that, with very few excep-
tions, no women are going to be taken into
banks’ employ in Queensland. In N. S.
Wales an effort is still being made to pre-
vent bank officers securing registration; and
that is simply another way of looking for
trouble.
* * * *
Badak cheek-borer W. Wilson’s sampling
results look good, but a little investigation
is necessary before things can be definitely
declared to be actually quite so good as they
look. To Wilson has to be conceded the
ability to do good work, and there is do
doubt that he would watch his job so as to
prevent any salting tricks. His assay
results confirm this. They run from 50 to
70 p.c. impurities, mostly titanic iron. The
average grade of 70 p.c. concentrates at
8.981 b. per cub. yd. compares with prospector
Orton’s 9.951 b. Such an approximation, con-
sidering the distance between the check bores
on the 100-acre block, must be more than a
coincidence. If the ground works out
under treatment at the average of say 81b.
of 70 per cent, tin oxide, then Orton not only
deserves the bit allotted him, but Wilson
should get more than kindly consideration.
But there is still the question whether
Orton or Wilson has got quite to bedrock.
Are the samples brought down themselves a
concentration? If they are, what allowance
has to be made for the impurities in any
discards? If no allowances have to be made
in that way, then Badak has the best of
starts on its career. But Wilson might tell
how he handled the stuff from his bores, aud
whether he swirled off as much foreign
matter as possible before bagging his
samples.
The big question, however, is what would
black tin with from 50 to 70 p.c. of
impurities be worth at the smelters? Cabled
inquiry towards the end of last week showed
that, with London tin prices at £2OO, £250
and £3OO for 35 p.c. ore delivered at Penang,
duty paid by the seller, the two smelters
there were quoting £33 65., £43 ss. and £53
2s. respectively. Duty would call for £l9
135., £23 12s. and £29 10s. respectively. And
since the average cost of producing a ton of
tin Malaya way is between £5O and £6O,
there still remain a few things about Badak
calling for more definite information.
* * * *
There has been a considerable weakening
of practically all Hampton Plains boom
stocks. The cause is obvious. Adelaide
bought into almost every lease submitted to
it by the punter, and as there is a limit to
absorptive capacity a reverse was inevitable
in the absence of any strikingly good de-
velopment. Melbourne went guardedly into
Hampton Plains and fluttered out quickly
when any halt occurred in the advance of
prices. There has not been a development
out of the ordiuaiy during the last fortnight
in the hundred claims floated. Most of the
shows on parallel lines . conform to old
Euclid’s axiom that extensions under
such circs, cannot converge. On the
evidence available Hampton Plains ap-
pears to offer fair prospects in the oxi-
dised zone in the Celebration, with little
in its neighbors north or south; good
samples in dense sulphides at the White
Hope, little in the shows north, south
east or west of it; sft. to 6ft. of good-grade
ore at the Mutooroo in the 50ft. crosscut,
but nothing in the shows around it; and. last
of all, some variable samples at Pernatty
Central. Mutooroo has agreed to increase
capital to let someone in with cash (for a
consideration) to develop. Will H. J. Daly
bite?
* * * *
N. Giblin, late of the Edna May, has taken
charge of the White Hope, Hampton Plains,
and is awaiting the arrival of two portable
roek-drilling plants before rushing develop-
ment. At 40ft. the show looks as well as
any of the Ivalgoorlie big mines did at the
same depth.
* * * »
Sinking below 100 ft. is now proceeding in
the Celebration, and as the shaft is going
down in payable ore interest in the mine
should easily be sustained until the sulphide
zone is reached. A lot of hard things have
been said about the prospects of the Celebra-
tion, but judging by the appearance of its
ore body at 100 ft., most of those things
seem entirely unjustified.
* * » *
Every week sees the flotation of a dozen
or more wild eats at Hampton Plains, and
the public will get some nasty scratches
before the present excitement is over. The
limit was reached the other day when a block
in the bush 10 miles from Boulder, and about
the same distance trom Hampton Plains,
was described in the prospectus as being
•‘north of the Celebration and south of the
Golden Horseshoe”!
The experiences of several hurriedly-formed
Westralian boom cos. should make others
careful. In each case the ventures were
floated and big dealings done in shares on
the Stock Exchanges before written agree-
ments or transfers were obtained from the
vendors. When the shares soared to a
premium,' the vendors opened their mouths
wider, and the cos., discovering that they had
no title to their areas, were an easy prey.
* •* *• *
Sample-grabbers have become a nuisance
to managers of lease-owning cos. at Hamp-
ton Plains. Some steal openly in the day-
time, but the majority work at night. The
manager of one well-boomed show recently
put a shot in a new surface find, blowing a
hundred or so pieces of rock into the air.
He declares that there were so many touts
witnessing the ceremony that every frag-
ment was snatched from under his nose, and
that some were caught before they reached
the ground.
# * * *
The little Westralian Development Syndi-
cate has declined Mayman’s Consols, after
examination. If Mayman’s was deserving of
powder and shot the question all along has
been why didn’t some of the Kalgoorlie big
men buy into it? Still experience costs
a bit, and as Collins-street did not take long
to make up its mind, the W.D.S. still has
some cash to go scouting after something
else.
* * * *
Owing to labor difficulties Boulder Per-
severance (W.A.) worked only 10 months
during 1919. In all 61,565 tons, including
22,914 tons of the now exhausted broken-
ore reserve, were treated for gold worth
£177,861. Royalties from tributors, £31,359,
and other receipts made total revenue for
the year £264,395. Expenses absorbed
£244.971, leaving a net profit of £19,424.
The liquidator has decided to continue opera-
tions, the manager estimating that at least
£2OOO a month might be expected from
royalties during the next two years. Mean-
time, as a sort of solatium to shareholders,
3d. per share is being distributed.
* * * *
From Alex. Peacock’s office comes a modest
circular sealing the fate of the Edna Con-
solidated’s Westonia mine. It records the
abandonment of the old workings. Their
fate months since was merely a question of
time, for trouble with the shaft, heavy
ground and the size of the shoot of the ore
all made it obvious that only one end was
ahead. As a last kick the co. is moving to
an adjoining Golden Point shaft, whence
it will drive into its own lease to test the
extension there of the belt of gneissic schist.
This is pure prospecting, and as such com-
mands respect.
* * * *
C.S.A., Cobar, has got something worse
even than a strike—a fire underground; and
it isn’t a good mine for a fire to start in.
The trouble about an underground fire is
that, as a rule, you can’t get near enough
to fight it. If the mine is timbered (and
there are few mines that are not) the man
who approaches dies the same death as tfie
suicide who shuts himself up in a sealed
room with a charcoal fire. The Broken Hill
Prop, has a fire that is over 20 years old;
and even the comparatively small Many
Peaks had one that lasted two years. In
the case of the C.S.A. it is hoped to smother
it by sealing that part of the mine.
* * * *
Arrangements for the re-opening of Mil-
burn Creek copper-mine (N.S.W.) are pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. This is the show
whose title, 40 years ago, led to a political
upheaval. In between troubles it produced
some very rich ore, a thousand tons or so
going between 11 and 13 p.c. Lawsuit fol-
lowed lawsuit, and the show eventually fell
into the hands of one H. Haege, a moneyed
individual who asked so large a considera-
tion that terms satisfactory to any crowd
willing to give the show another run could
not be agreed upon. The amended Mining
Act of last year, however, released Ilaege’s
hold, and a Cowra syndicate, headed by W.
C. Easdown.. who had cast longing eyes at
the . proposition for many years, got pos-
session. This syndicate since August last
has been sending small parcels aggregating
over 200 tons to Ivembla for returns go : ng
between 7.86 and 10.46 p.c. copper. The
flotation of a little development co. of
£1.i.000 forecasted by this pa ere several
months ago is now proceeding. The vendor
syndicate takes 375 £2O paids as full con-
S’derat'on, 250 shares have been offered to
the public, leaving 125 in reserve. This will
give the management £5OOO with which to
erect a 10-hd. battery and concentrating
plant to handle the 4000 tons 5 p.c. ore at
grass, and in which the management reckons
it sees a clear profit of £12,500. This will
help the cost of development proposed from
the six shafts which were put down on
the lode over a distance of G4oft. in the old
days. After repairing the old workings the
co. will set out to ascertain tonnages in
sight, and as the manager declares that he
“can go on breaking ore at any level between
100 ft. and oOOft. in the No. 1 shaft with
highly profitable _ results,” the co. thinks it
can find out quite a lot about mine pros-
pects with the £5OOO of cash raised by the
float. A feature of the Milburn. Creek ore
is its self-fluxing character, which has
induced Kembla to make substantial conces-
sions in smelting charges.
* * * *
Mt. Hope (N.S.W.) has been stuck up
by a new and utterly futile strike; the
engine-drivers were responsible this time.
Fortunately the executive is a level-headed
body, and at latest it was giving the far-
away branch some straight talk and telling
it to go back to work.
* * * *
While Constellation keeps the pot boiling
at Bendigo Amalgamated, Moline and his
team are hunting around for a runner-up.
Unity at one time looked a promising colt,
but was overweighted. Now the tipsters
see hopes in a development off the Nelson
shaft. This is the deepest working on the
Derby line, which, although not a New
Chum or Garden Gully run of stone, has
so far as worked been a consistently good
belt of country. Sinking has been slow
along it, probably because in past days no-
thing was_ got at depth from the Nelson.
Below 1445 ft. a run of quartz has now been
bored into for 22ft. Diamond drills have
a knack of getting along any run of stone
that provides the least resistance, so the
strike may be the thread of a leg or a
big make of storfe. A little shaft-sinking
and crosscutting will soon give the strength
of the find.
*****
The Irvinebank Co.’s Koorboora(Q.) proper-
ties have been taken over by a co. formed
by Fred Brown on his last trip to Eng-
land. The properties include the once-
fainous wolfram producer, the Neville and
the Two Jacks, Tennyson, Shakspeare, etc.
\\ ith an energetic mining policy these shows
should more than pay their way. The Two
Jacks is a good tin show, but development
m the past has been on the hand-to-mouth
plan. The ore body proved by the big
wjnze in the bottom of the Tennyson was
of such a grade that it paid to mine when
tm was £4 a bag; so its chances at present
high prices look good. Development in the
Shakspeare is showing some nice ore missed
by only a few feet in the old workings.
VV hat the field badly requires is a little sys-
tematic prospecting with a diamond drill.
A new mill and a modern system of ore
transport are on the programme. Peberty,
one time of Cloncurry and afterwards in
Burma, but who has been on service in
France, is to be g.-m. and will see the old
Irvinebank Co. off the premises.
* * » •
From a Bulletin man in the Speck
Most Tasmanian mines have been experiencing con-
siderable trouble owing to water shortage and bush
fires. The latter cleaned up the milling plant of
the S. and M. mine, Bisehoff’s aerial loading station
and Extended’s firewood tram system, and Mt. Read’s
mine office also went up in smoke. Most of the
East Coast alluvial mines have ceased production, the
drought being very severe there; and the crushing
mills of the Wdst Coast are just able to hang out.
The Great Pyramid tin-mine, Scamander River,
was recently rej'ected by a Melbourne co. after
examination. The deposit is low grade, but a moder-
ately-large tonnage would be available by open cut
stoping. Power and transport facilities, however,
would be costly. John Taylor and Son, of London,
spent a few thousands on the property just before
the war.
Tin-mining at Renison Bell is on the wane. Recent
developments at the Boulder-Dreadnought are said
to be satisfactory, but optimism was always a strong
point with the co. Meantime Renison Bell tributors,
led by ex-manager Scott, are working along on ore
giving about .S p.c. tin. The camp has been badly
hit by water shortage.
At the Federation, Heemskirk, everything is pro-
ceeding quietly awaiting sanction from Slowbart for
the continuation of the narrow gauge line from the
old Comstock mine to the mill site. The Department
is doubtful about recommending the outlay, but a
proposition to transport 1000 tons of iron ore per
week from the Heemskirk deposit to Strahan may help
the proposal. Meantime, Lewis appears to be well
satisfied with the result of his check of tonnage and
tin contents. He is at present constructing the
main water race which is to provide power.
Magnet has connected up with its new dam, which
this time is of steel, and hopes to be free of water
troubles soon. Once the dam is full normal output
should soon be possible. By eliminating the costly
steam plant and effecting other economies, the show
should soon do well for shareholders, particularly if
the silver boom is maintained.
Osmiridium has reached a new record of £3B
10s. per ox., and, naturally, the diggers are jubilant.
Some of them are making small fortunes, though the
field, like most other alluvial workings, only returns
a pittance to the majority. The deflection of the
Savage River by means of a tunnel through the Burnt
Spur, by Wood and party, is now almost completed.
It has been a race against time, but the party ex-
pects to know its fate before the winter’s rain mAc.-s
work on their section impossible. A factor in the
high price of the metal is in evidence just now.
Flinders-lane firms importing from the U.S.A. are,
owing to the adverse exchange rate, using the metal
to establish credits in New York. The American
consumers of osmiridium are being squeezed to suen
an extent that they are endeavoring to get into direct
touch with the producer in Tasmania, and, of course,
the digger doesn’t mind how many competing buyers
pursue him. The State’s output of the metal last
year was worth over £39,000.


THE MORNING AFTER THE LANDING.
COOKED HAT: “Well, y’r Royal Highness, and how do you think things went?”
ROYAL HIGHNESS: “Frankly, rotten! Haven’t you people here got nous enough to see that it’s dungarees I’ve come to make friends with, not tall hats? The hats are on our side already!’*


ABBOTS
LAGER
in
X.'
35 t +
{Made from
Malt e, Hops
ONLY
A PERFECT
BEVERAGE
FOR A
SUMMER'S DAY
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
ď
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mears’ Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you arc not perfectly satisfied.
We would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Guarantee Proves Its Bonafldes.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George sue?t. Svdnev.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARftING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESE MAS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
April birthdays :—•
l)r. Joseph Abrahams (Melb. Rabbi), 65, pastoralist
“Wingen” Abbott, 70, and ex-Judge Docker
t.V.S.W.), 78, on Ist; Bishop Armstrong (Wan-
garatta), 63, on 2nd; Archdeacon Boyce, 76, on 6th;
artist Arthur Streeton, 53, on Bth; ex-Prime
Minister J. C. Watson., 53, Chas. A. Bernays (Clerk
of Q. Leg. Assembly), 58, and T. Trumble (Sec-
retary for Defence), 48, on 9th; poet Bernard
O'Dowd, 54, on 11th; Geo. Brookman (S.A.), 70,
and ex-Mayor Allen Simpson (Adel.), 45, on 15th;
Lieut.-Gen. 11. G. Chauvel, 55, on 16th; John
AValker (Ballarat Kirk), 65, on 17th; David Barclay
(Speck), 74, on 18th; Tom Hughes, M.L.C. (Syd.),
57, and J. 11. MacFarland (Chancellor Melb. Uni.),
69, on 19th; Governor Davidson (N.S.W.), 61, and
L. A. Adamson (AVesley Coll., Melbourne), 60, on
20th; James Edmond, 61, on 21st; Federal Minister
L. E. Groom, 53, dramatist C. Haddon Chambers, 60,
11. N. P. Sloman (Sydney Grammar School), 35, and
Jack Virgo (Y.M.C.A.), 55, on 22nd; Vic. Minister
Arthur Robinson, 48, and Prof. Dakin (AY.A. Uni.),
37, on 23rd; editor W. J. Sowden (Adel. Register),
62, ex-Senator J. G. Drake, 70, and J. MacCallum
Smith, M.L.A. (Perth Sunday Times), 52, on 26th;
G. J. Cohen (Syd.), 78, and AV. M. Shannon (Vic.
Railway Comm.), 52, on 27th; and Richard Teece
(Syd.), 73, on 29th.
Don Cameron, the new editor of the Social-
ist, vice Ross, began his career in a printery
N. A. WEBB.
President of the
Wheat Commission,
South. Aus.
and switched off
into plumbing be-
fore taking another
sniff at the inkpots.
Born in Victoria 40
years ago, he
adventured to Cool-
gardie at 15, and
started there as a
junior machinist on
the Miner. A t
Perth he after-
wards attained
some notoriety as
secretary and ora-
tor to the Social
Democratic
League ; an d he
crossed over to
Melbourne last
year to take a job
as organiser for the
V.S.P. Thence he
recently stepped up
to the secretaryship.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Hughes’s deterioration as a speaker becomes more
noticeable daily. The former fluent orator, who
threw sudden invective into the faces of his oppo-
nents, has slowed down, and frequently needs a
search warrant to get the right word. The other
night a full House heard him fumbling for plain
English on an extremely dull matter, and there were
great pauses in the painful proceeding. He has
worn the fine edge off his tongue, and the conscious-
ness of it has increased his irritability. Never
nice, he is now at times unbearable. He bellows at
his staff, and there are two or three of his Ministers
even who face him in covert fear and trembling.
The other day in the House one of his prominent
colleagues thought it necessary to warn people that
the Chief's condition made it dangerous to approach
him; so the autocrat sat in splendid isolation, crea-
ting about himself an impassable No Man’s Land.
If his colleagues had the courage of their thoughts,
they would bundle him away on a holiday. He
needs a long spell. He is the victim of chronic
neurasthenia.
On telling Wise that lie was to take the
P.M.G.’s portfolio, Hughes added his con-
gratulations in this formula : “And may the
Lord have mercy on your soul!”
After the Belaud Mayor’s send-off to
Willie Watt iu Melbourne, a well-whiskered,
fair giant of a man Avas led up to Watt by
a mutual acquaintance. “Mr. N desires
to have a few words Avitli you, Mr. Watt,”
said the acquaintance. “Well,” said Willie,
prepared for the Avorst. “Yo» don’t remem-
ber me?” said the big man. Mr. Treasurer
shook his head. “You may recollect a bet
I made with you Avhen you first addressed
the St. Ivilda electors. I got up in the
audience, and bet you tuppence you would
count for absolutely nothing in the Federal
arena.” “Well?” said Mr. Watt. “Well,”
said the big man, “here’s your tuppence!”
On his trip to England to plead the cause
of the prodigal son, Commomvealth Treasurer
Willie Watt took Douglas Reid, son of Yes-
No, as his private secretary.
No matter what sort of person he may
appear in the eyes of rival traders or the
public, “Bill” Angliss, Melbourne’s biggest
butcher, seems to be on excellent terms with
the 4000 or 5000 men he employs. Nobody
ever hears of a strike at any of Angliss’s
Avorks. He runs a variety of plants to
“feed” his butchering business, making
boxes, bags, bricks and other items used in
the carcase-handling enterprise. His method
of keeping the men on the job is a simple
one and apparently AA’orks out all right.
Whenever there is a complaint capable of
being met by his plan. Angliss puts on a
suit of blueys and goes on the job for an
hour or two. If he finds the matter one
Avhich should be remedied, the men get their
adjustment of Avages or conditions. If it
isn’t, they don’t. Angliss is alleged to run
his business on the apparently trifling but
highly succulent margin of 1 per cent.
Just dead, George Sweet, of Brunswick
(Vic.). The bricky subuib’s leading potter,
he was wealthy, and influential in various
spheres. He was devoted to science, and
had tAvo scientific daughters, Dr. Elizabeth
Sweet and Prof. Georgina Sweet, of Mel-
bourne University. In Methodism he was
a poAver. Before amalgamation he Avas
leading man of the Primitive Methodists in
Australia. The Bible Christians, who also
amalgamated, were led by Adelaide’s into
Chief Justice Way. Without the hearty
co-operation of these tAvo there AA'ould have
been no fusion at the time.
Stanley EdAvards, who Avon his fourth
King’s Prize in Adelaide the other day, is
no pot-hunting rifleman. On coming back
to Australia from Bisley after his 1913 visit
with the Commonwealth team, he tied with
the late D. L. McAlister for the King’s Prize
in the N. S. Wales competition, McAlister
Avinning in the shoot-off. Later both enlisted.
Mac was killed in action, and Edwards went
on from Egypt to service in France.
Amongst those Avho are to retire shortly
from the Permanent Forces, and, in default
of a pensions system, be compensated on a
long-service .basis, is Colonel “Billy” Mailler
of Queensland. Originally a Tommy n.c.0., he
made an immortal name for himself at Lark
Hill (Eng.) during the war a.s a discipli-
narian of the very old school. His bark was far
Avorse than his bite; but the noise was ter-
rific. Diggers used to gather from 'near'"find
far to listen while he was performing; and
humor-loving Imperial officers were said to
have ridden as much as 10 miles before
breakfast in order to observe one of his
famous 9.30 parades. Despite his habit of
speech, the old man was popular in the
A.I.F. He tried to give everybody a fail-
deal. and he bore no malice. In a sense
those who served under him were privileged.
They were in at the death of an epoch.
Birdwood found a tOAvn bearing his name
in South Aus., and not a new one either.
During the war there was a crusade against
the many names given by the German colo-
nists of 1843. Blumberg was one of those
to be rechristened, and the General’s name
Avas borrowed for' it. He paid it a special
visit to lay the foundation-stone of a war-
memorial, the names whereon Avill be mostly
Schmidt and Schneider.
The. Rejected Volunteer, the organ of
the R.V. Association in South Aus., points
out proudly that the new State Governor
will be one of themselves, as the last Avas.
Galway, though a professional soldier, Avas
considered too old for the Avar, and was told,
to his great disgust, to stick to his job.
Weigall, Avho is to succeed him in Adelaide,
tried to enlist, but Avas put off AA-ith a junior
captaincy in the Lincolnshire Yeomanry.
His main job was looking after the commis-
sariat, and he developed .such a genius for
feeding troops in the east and north of Eng-
land that he Avas sent to France on the same
job. It is claimed that he saved the coun-
try a million of money, and yet gave the
men better food. At any rate, Rhondda,
Avhen Food Controller, made Weigall “Sur-
veyor-General of Food Consumption.” Inci-
dentally, he gaA’e up his London house as an
office of that department.
Adelaide has neAvs of the sudden death of
Arnold Davey in France, where he AA’as
travelling for his Avife’s health. He A\ T as
head of a big S. Aus. milling firm, a great
traveller, local Consul for Peru, director or
committee-man of a host of companies and
charities, and president at one time or other
of the Chamber of Commerce. IbA.C. Old
Boys and the Y.M.C.A.
The Australian long-distance record for a
team race in school attendance is claimed
by the Solomon James family, of North
CresAvick (Vic.). There are six youngsters,
and not one of them has missed a morning
or afternoon session, still less a day, for
nine, seven, six, fiA r <e, three and three years
respectively.
Paddy Glynn, having lost his seat in the
Reps., is turning again to his practice at
the Bar. He refused to accept a brief while
he Avas in Parliament; but they are coming
along freely now.
“Gallery” : The most pathetic figure in the
Reps, is Austin Chapman. Nominally a
Nationalist but really an Independent, he is
ostracised by his dislike for the Hughes brand
of politics and his inability to fit haloes on
the other parties. Nowadays he sits on Iris
special perch on the gangway feeding Han-
sard with chuckles and interjections, but
LIEUT.-COLONEL EMBLING.
Commanding Officer No. 11 3rd, Military
District A.G.S. Hospital.
rarely revealing political interest in a larger
form. The only subject that attracts him
is Drybeyra, and any aspersion on that will
bring him to his feet. He still cherishes the
delusion that he will yet see the Desert Capi-
tal spill ‘a suburb into his own back yard,
and he uses much ingenuity to prevent the
village- fading from the . Government’s
memory. His latest idea is to get young
Wales to lay the foundation-stone of some
public building there, but he doesn’t mention
if his suggestion is adopted that he will be
able to supply the necessary camels.
Reflections from the Gallery:—
The late Henry Parkes was not the only vast
politician to express his sentiments in a disappoint-
ing bleat. When addressing a large audience pon-
derous Tommy Bent was put to much trouble to
make his voice heard—so much so that his accents
sounded not unlike those of a squeaking doll, difficult
to hear from afar, and, near at hand, as irritating
to the ear as an ungreased axle-box. Nowadays there
are few spotlight Parliamentarians worth listening
to if one wants thrills. Hughes, whose method has
not improved with age, has the mechanical style of
a University lecturer—hard and unattractive. Of
all the Labor and ex-Labor bunch. Chanter, of the
Riverina, has the most dignified and convincing
style. Maloney can ‘ have his out-of-Parliament
audiences shedding tears inside 10 minutes, with his
shrill, quavery utterances regarding the Saviour,
starving chuh-chooldren and the old-age pup-pensioner.
In the House, however, the little doctor’s sob-speeche-
are inclined to set members giggling. Prendergast.
leader of the State Labor party, is about the most
passionate platformist the movement has, swelling
up like a turkey-gobbler every few moments, accom-
paliving each fervid outburst with a few agitated
steps to the right, and then returning to his base
to make another dash towards the left. Frank
Tudor now speaks with a superior air of consciou-
vivtue. Those in search of dialectic thrills could
do worse than give the Parliamentarians the go-by
BRUNTNELL, N. S.
Wales Minister for
Health.
and vi>it the
speakers’ dump
on the Yarn
Bank, where
an occasional
sparkler may
be discovered
among the
piles of ora-
torical rubbish
deposited {here
week by week.
“Murkah”: Luscombe, O.C. Roebourne
wireless station (W.A.), deserves honorable
mention. A spark having set alight to the
ISO-foot pine mast, Luscombe improvised a
galvanised-iron umbrella (red-hot bolts were
tumbling down out of the blaze in dozens),
and, taking an axe aloft with him, chopped
the mast off 90 feet from the ground. How
he might dodge the blazing severed portion
he didn’t stop to inquire. This happened in
1916, and, ns told in a recent Bulletin, the
severed portion was never rebuilt. For trans-
mitting purposes the station is, therefore, of
little use.
One trophy which Ross Smith collected on
his journey is the wing of a hawk that got
mixed up with the aeroplane near Calcutta
and was picked out, what was left of it, when
they got to the next stop at Akyab.
“He travels 15 miles for every ton of fruit
he sells,” is a Mildura business man’s sum-
ming up of C. J. De Garis, the restless young
Australian who, as director of publicity for
the Australian Dried Fruits Assoc., startled
old advertising men by his Sun-Raysed suc-
cess. During a recent press tour, when as
many as 23 cars were throwing the dust of
the Murray Valley into the air, De Garis
was generally racing for the head of the pro-
cession. Thanks to their motors, the growers
on the scattered irrigation settlements are all
neighbors whose frequent visits enable them
to see eye to eye on most matters —especially
when “C.J.” is there to explain things—and
it is just this that has made the A.D.F.A.
When the A.N.A.’s annual corroboree was
held at Sale 28 years ago. the imps among
the delegates summoned G. H. Wise, now
P.M.G., to receive a presentation, and
hinted at “a piece of plate.” Laudatory
speeches were made, and Wise took the
parcel with some reserve. His response was
also cautious. When the “gift” was handed
to him he removed the wreath of tissue
paper enshrouding it, and found that it was
the brass-platQ showing “G. H. Wise, soli-
citor,” which the leg-pullers had unscrewed
from his own office-door. The incident was
recalled when the conference met once again
at Sale a week ago.
Even Victoria was not founded too late
to have its duels. At Balnarring, on the
Mornington Peninsula, an old horse-pistol
used in a “little affair” of 1842 is still pre-
served. Two squatters, A. Meyrick and Dr.
Edward Barker, quarrelled over a water-
hole. Meyrick started to dig it near the
boundary-fence, and Barker sent his men to
fill the hole"mr ns fast as Meyrick’s men
dug it out. So Meyrick sent in a challenge,
and they met with horse-pistols and due
formality ten paces apart on the beach half-
way between Cape Schanck and Point
Nepean. Meyriek’s bullet is alleged to have
gone close to Barker’s head, and then
Barker fired in the air and honor Avas satis-
fied. What happened about the waterhole
the Oldest Inhabitant doesn’t remember.
Who named “Western Australia”? G. F.
Moore, who went there in 1830 and lived on
the Swan River for many years, hints that
the discredit is his. At the first ball given
by Governor Stirling at Perth in 1831 he
sang a song of his own composition, entitled
“Western Australia for Me.” After men-
tioning that the place was originally called
the Swan River Settlement he adds: “I dare
not say tb it I christened the colony, but
certainly after the above song the name of
Western Australia Avas adopted.”
THE SMILING WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The new Governor of South Aus., in a speech at
the Junior Constitutional Club, described the Prince
of Wales as the Empire’s greatest ambassadorial
asset. He predicted that his Royal Highness would
‘smile his way across Australia into the hearts of
the people, and leave a trail of strength and loyalty,
which would make the task of every representative
of the King there infinitely easier.’ ” — Cable.
E’en as bold bushmen blazed a track
Which later was the road
Where, each with swag upon his back,
Our hardy fathers strode,
So, cast for pioneer part,
His Highness, due in May,
To Young Australia’s inmost heart
Will smile and smile liis way.
Where’er he goes, by road or rail,
In streets with people lined, ft
The Prince’s smile will leave a trail
Of loyalty behind.
Aye, in its sunshine crowds will bask,
And where its beams are shed
Henceforward witli a lightened task
Vice-royalty will tread.
The populace in future years
Vice-royalty will greet
AVith waving hats and ringing cheers,
A welcome truly sweet :
And Avhilst the masses bow and bob,
The Governor will say:
“AVell, mine is quite an easy job—
The Prince has smiled this way.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Austral Tailoring is
founded on Quality
As important as a good foundation-stone to a building is the
knowledge on which a suit is built. Knowledge in tailoring
embraces many things. First, selection of the quality of
material; second, the cutting-out—the inimitable touch which
enhances or mars the best material; third, the faithful and
careful workmanship which does justice to the materials and
to the expertness of the cutter.
An “Austral” Sac Suit will prove more to you about clothes
than all the talking in the world. An “Austral” Sac Suit is
one that wears well, fits well and has a distinctive appear-
ance to a degree a little above your expectations. “Austral”
Sac Suits are noteworthy because they give their wearers
that air of personal refinement which only good suits can
give. They are noteworthy because they have everywhere
established a newer and higher standard of worth at the
price.
Figure to yourself the qualities you want in a suit; then be
measured for an “Austral” Sac Suit, and you will find you
get them all.
“Austral” Sac Suits
TO MEASURE
95/-, 105/-, 115/-, £616/-, £6/15/-, £7/7-, £B/8/-,
£B/15/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-, £lO/15/-
Country Customers write for Patterns.
To any address throughout Australia wc send patterns with
tape-measure and forms for self-measurement free on request.
And not only do we pay the carriage, but guarantee the
customer absolute satisfaction.
Carriage Paid o n all Country Orders.
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is
allowed Returned Soldiers in Uniform on all Cash
Purchases of £5 or over.
GOWING BROS. LTD.
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
486-490 GEORGE STREET.
3-17 ROYAL ARCADE,
Branch Store at 304 George St. (near Hunter St.),
SYDNEY.
m
r
yiiiip
M
1
Vi-,,:-!*.
1111 I
■ ':■
a
r
i
■Pfe- , 5
mEk » -5:
1
■
i
&
:
:
'<•• V
Lj
wm
Wrnrnmm*
:
:V : ; ■
I
mm
i


*
Acute Shortage Certain
—Order Underwear Now.
Advice f-rom the mills warns us that only HALF of' our order
for Underwear can be delivered this year. This rationing of
output is GENERAL. In view of this and steadily increasing
costs, the advisability of ordering now will be readily realised.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
Please state chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
KAeltonian
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
Creams
?rd
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
All KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
Frrm All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANQ LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St, Mo.bourne.
d
E. DROWN <§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES » ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL
ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION LTD.
Head Office, A.P.A. Building,
77 King/ Street, SYDNEY.
FIVE YEARS’ PROGRESS.
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
Ordinary New
Business.
£325,925
£ 32,069
£609,030
£1,268,012
£1,839,076
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
Accident
Revenue.
£BlB
£3.689
£11,717
£23.280
£33,304
Total Revenue.
£17,287
£28,662
£56.978
£101.258
£166.317
NOTE. —The 1918 totals cover a period
of fourteen months. .
The A.P.A. Combined Benefit Policies, in
add tion to the ordinary Endowment ana bite
Benefits, give Weeklv Compensation for Sickness
and Acoice t, also Hospitil and Medical reto.
The Association transacts all classes of per-
sonal Accident Insurance. Live representatives
may secure exceptional contracts on the A.i -a
staff. . ...
S. P. WOOD, Managing Director.
SOCIETY
Here’s grit for you. A horse bolted, pull-
ing out of its harness, and left two men,
brothers, on the road in an injured con-
dition. The less-smashed of them managed-
to arouse one Manuell. Having sized up the
situation he put the two men into the buggy,
got into the shafts himself and dragged them
five miles to Sofala hospital. And the roads
in those parts are not asphalt and rarely
move half a mile without climbing a hill.
* * * *
“North Shoreman”: Amongst the useless
lumber that cumbers my mind is this junk
of alliterative rubbish. A spectre roamed the
streets night after night before election day
bellowing it through a phonograph trumpet:
Wiggles will work! Wiggles will win! Wiggles
won’t wobble!
I decided at once to mark Wiggles No. 21
on my ballot-paper; nut that won’t keep
Wiggles from wobbling through my brain for
years to come. I have also had the Wiggles
masterpiece megaphoned at my morning ferry
from a plunging motor-boat. At first I
thought it was a wholesale drowning acci-
dent that was happening overside; but it
THE HOUSING PROBLEM.
“Smith struck a bit of lack. Got Brown’s
house.”
"Why, what .will Brown do?%
"Oh, he’s got twelve months for embezzle-
ment. You see Smith’s Brown’s lawyer.”
was only the latest American publicity idea.
When next elections are due trains and
ferries will probably be pursued by fast aero-
planes trailing spruikers at the end of long
ropes. I won’t object if the ropes are at-
tached to the spruikers’ necks.
“Sixenate”: For the levanting husband
who tries to evade his responsibilities the
future isn’t what the past has been. The
order that a Court makes against him. in
Sydney may henceforward meet him un-
expectedly in Jo’burg, or land him in cold
cells in London. Before the war started a
movement to secure reciprocity between all
parts of the Empire was started, and now
Canada alone stands out. Already there has
been one surprised Digger faced in Maori-
land by a stinging order made for the sup-
port of the girl he left behind him in Blighty.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: Anyone who wants to rival
the late Robinson Crusoe can get a lease of
not one but three islands,
the Ashmores, about 200
miles off the coast of
the Kimberley country
(W.A.) and half-way to
Timor. The biggest of
them is 600 yards by 400,
and the resident popula-
tion consists entirely of
rats. (Lord knows how
they got there, but it
smells' like a shipwreck
in the old days.) There
is guano on the islands,
find trepang and trochus-
shell round about. It is
alleged that Timor natives
once tried to make a
settlement there and
planted cocoanuts, but
that the rats were too
strong for the young
trees. When Westralia
stretched her boundary to
Scott’s Reef, nearly as
far out, so that she
could warn off the Koe-
pang sea-scavengers, she
overlooked the Ashmores.
They are still a direct British possession,
run by the Colonial Office, which is offering
them on lease.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: I don’t know how it is else-
where ; but all that Sydney, soldiers who are
applying under the war service homes
scheme can now get for the £7OO which is
the limit of any advance is a cottage con-
sisting of two rooms and a kitchen. The
position would not be so bad if liberal veran-
dahs were provided: in a country where
sleeping-out is healthy and alluring, suffi-
cient room for the man who has more than
himself and his wife to think about would
then be provided. But the war service homes’
architect appears to regard verandahs as
luxuries. When the scheme was first
launched a house with four rooms, includ-
ing the land, could be had for the money;
but men who applied in .Tune of last year are
only now being attended to, and with prices
still soaring and work going slower, it is a
black lookout for the men who got in late.
By the time their turn arrives it looks as
though all they will get for £7OO will be a
kitchen with wall-beds.
“Murkah”: I agree with “Filament” who
states (B. 11/3/’2O) that Marconi has done
little towards improving wireless. On the
contrary, the world-wide monopoly of which
he is the head has often retarded progress.
Tied to the Marconi chariot, Britain was
eight years or so behind the times at the
outbreak of war. The TJ.S.A. and Germany
had long before discarded “spark” systems
(like Marconi’s), and adopted one or other
of the “arc” systems. Soon after the war
began the British Government parted with
£700,000 to break its Marconi contracts and
take up the arc system. Power for power,
the 30-k.w. arc station adopted by the Brit-
ish Government is, in my op'nion, the finest
transmitter in use to-day. Sitting in Syd-
ney Radio I have heard Aden, Port Said,
Mauritius and Seychelles bidding each other
good morning. The wonderful receiving
results of to-day are due to the audion detec-
tor. invented by De Forest, of America. An
audion of this type (though Sydney-manu-
factured ) was used by Fisk, of Amalga-
mated Wireless, when he heard Cook and
Hughes from Carnarvon, Wales, some rime
ago.. Without the super-sensitive Yankee
receiver this feat, pre-arranged though it
was, would ( have been quite impossible.
* * * *
“Centurion” lectures on swords :—-
Writirg in a recent Bulletin on Bedouin anus,
“Gouger” describes a sword which would bend until
the point touched the hilt, and he judges, from the
Latin motto on the blade, that it was a Crusader’s
weapon. Wrong! The swords of the crusading days
were exceedingly rigid and heavy, made to shear by
weight Of stroke through plate and chain mail.
Such swords were found among the Mahdi’s followers,
and even in later days in the hands of the Seuussi's
troops, as were also complete and beautifully-made
suits of chain mail. The latter, however, are prob-
ably not of the Crusade periods, but of Persian or
Indian origin. The supple, tempered, thrusting epee
came in with gunuovvder and the vanishment of armor.
The Moro-Spar.i»h smiths of Toledo were famous for
their sword-blades arid their test was the bending
of the blade in a circle, as described by “Gouger.'’
Some of the Italian makers were also famous, and
a blade by Andrea of Ferrara was once as ueces-
sary to a fashionable soldier of fortune as a
Stradivarius violin is to a modern virtuoso. It is
curious that the use of the point, as far as the
sword is concerned, is a specialty of the Latin races,
derived no doubt from the thrusting sword of the
Roman legion. Briton and German clung to the
cutting-edge long after the French and Italian
masters of fence had discarded it. All “Eastern”
nations use the edge. The Indian tulwar, the curved
Arab scimitar, Burmese dah, Malay parong and the
twin Jap swords are all choppers. Latin or other
AFTER THE DIVORCE.
“How much does George allow her, d’you
know?”
“A tenner a week, I believe; five for ali-
mony and five for gratitude.”
mottoes seldom appeared on European swords of an
earlier period than the Renaissance. Then they
became common. “Draw me not without cause;
sheath me not without honor” is a famous one.
On the other hand, early Scandinavian swords were
engraved with magic runes, and Indo-Persian blades
often bear verses in gold inlay.
“Silas Snell”: The little old
man who for years took round
the plate in a tabernacle in
our suburb has been superannu-
ated at last. He was zealous in
the interests of the church, and
had contracted a bad habit of com-
menting sotto voce on the contri-
butions as they dropped into the
plate. “A thripny bit! A paltry
thripny bit!” he would say.
“They expect to get to Heaven for
the same price as they get to a
picture-show.” ! Little
enough, too!” “Half a crown.
That's something like!” If by
chance a worshipper dropped a
half-sovereign in the plate the old
chap was delighted. “Excellent!”
he would say. “Excellent,
excellent! Pity there are not a
few more like you.” As time
passed and he grew older he be-
came more and more garrulous, and
more splenetic towards “thripny
bits.” There had been many com-
plaints from insulted contributors
of small coins, and' the necessity
of removing the old chap from his
office had been long discussed.
Then came the explosion. He had
come to a man in a back pew. And
the congregation was startled to
hear: ‘‘Damned if he hasn’t put in
a penny!” The thripny was bad
enough; the copper was the last
straw.
“Two Seas” : The champion absent-minded
beggar lives in a little township on the
N. S. Wales southern line. A few days ago
he started off with his horse and cart to fetch
a bag of corn from a local store. An hour
later, when he dropped the bag of corn from
his shoulders and wiped the sweat from his
face, his astonished wife inquired where he
had left the cart. “Burn me!” he groaned,
“all the way home I been thinking there
was something I’d forgot. I came out the
back of the store and left the blighted cart
at the front.” He picked up the bag of corn
to carry it back to the cart, but his w'fe,
fearing that he might leave the corn in the
store and have to return again with the cart,
persuaded him to bring the cart to the corn.
• * * *
“Poilu”: Leave was up and I had to get
back to Havre by the 10.15 p.m. from Paris
which arrives at Havre at 7.45 next morn-
ing. I am a Frenchman, and served in the
129th Infantry; but I was born in Australia
and speak both languages. I picked out
an empty carriage, lay down on the seat and
prepared for sleep. Presently along came
another poilu and curled up on the other
seat. We both slumbered on till next morn-
ing. At about 6.45 a Digger came along to
our carriage and asked me in his best Aus-
tralian-French. “Quelle heur arrive Havre?”
And I replied in Australian, “At about a
quarter to eight, I reckon.” He was sur-
prised, and called to his pal to come and
listen to “the Froggy who speaks as good
English as I do.” But he was not so sur-
prised as I was when the chap on the other
seat sat up and asked. “Are you from Mel-
bourne by any chance?” “I live in Mel-
bourne,” I said. So did he. On arriving at
Havre we four sons of the South, two of
the A.I.F. and two of the 129th and 329th
Infantry respectively, dug out a cafe where
we swapped lies and talked of the land
where beer and ’baccy were plentiful.
“0.8. E.”: General Monash, a great if
somewhat self-satisfied soldier and a good
Jew, is overdoing it. Last week he gave a
boost to a London scheme for rais'ng a
fi.000,000 memorial to the Jews who fought
for the Empire in the war. Previously he is
alleged to have claimed that 5000 Jews
fought in the A.I.F. The Jewish effort in
the United Kingdom was poor. There is no
other word for it. The percentage of Jews
in the A.I.F. was 0.3: there were 66 officers
and 995 other ranks. When the average
Digger remembers the hefty young Hebrews
he left behind him in Australia, and recalls
the myriads of youthful Yids whom he en-
countered in London, he finds Monash’s pro-
testations and appeals rather irritating than
inspiring.
* * * *
The Sydney branch of the R. S. League
prosecuted the Millions Club last week under
the pre-election Act wlr'ch aims at having
preference given to a soldier when a job is
to be filled. One Capt. Cohen took an in-
vidious role, and told how he had enlisted
and gone to Egypt and back, and been dis-
charged as unfit, and how the club had
nevertheless omitted to make him its secre-
tary. The defence was entertaining. The
young man who beat Cohen claimed to have
a genius for climbing back stairs. The Mil-
lions Club has to employ many stratagems,
it seems, in order to induce people to eat and
drink with it: and he is a pastmaster at
snaring guests and a sort of super tourist-
thug. The magistrate avoided the embar-
rassment of deciding which of the two was
the better stalker of lions by dismissing the
information on the ground that the club
HE’D TOLD HER HOW.
HER HUSBAND: "Surely you’re not going out
to rote dressed Wee that.”
HIS WIFE: "Why, for the last week you’ve
impressed on me the necessity for mak-
ing this voting a strictly formal affair.
wasn’t an “employer.” Which was a par-
ticularly asinine view to take of the law.
By the same reasoning the A.J.C. and the
Union Club —one of which occasionally em-
ploys hundreds while the other permanently
employs scores —are not employers. Neither
of these institutions is carried on “for profit
as a business.” The Millions Club, on the
other hand, is very much a business —an ad-
vertising business.
(Continued on page 18.)
A RECIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For the making of a perfect world, please take
A bubble of foam and a peacock’s feather,
The shimmer of a cloud in a mountain lake,
A warm piece of sky from the summer weather,
And a rose’s scent, and the sheen of fur;
With a maiden’s eyelash blend together,
And stir.
Add a mellow flavoring of old, old wine,
Then a little star-dust lightly scatter;
Warm it with the cloudy breath of lowing kine.
Color with the tint of a baby’s chatter;
When the early sunbeams' from their sleep awake,
Place it with care upon a pearl-shell platter.
And bake.
When nut-brown, beneath a green fern slowly cool,
Spread a tablecloth of sun-kissed bracken,
Garnish with the chuckles of a cheerful fool
Fresh from a soul life has failed to blacken,
Touch it with her red lips to make it sweet —
Then lazily let your old belt slacken,
And eat.
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


WXwl’lffJSvl
as
wmmmmm
m
m
x-x-xrarexix-x
■mm
x-st.
m
|:%¥SiS:‘
£
Pi*
x**
m
$888!
IvMvMv/XvlvXvMv
vXy.v.vi’.v.v!'.
JHi
*Wx:
i*:®?:*:*:*:*#:*
MM
IE
••
*•
••
TUe
JHiiherto
7
BEFORE the GRADUOLA, the in-
genious patented tone controlling de-
vice in the AEOLIAN VOCALION
was invented, it was hitherto unknown
how to mechanically imitate the voice
perfectly.
The GRADUOLA achieves the seem-
ingly impossible. Like a singer’s throat,
it perfectly controls tone
Similar to the vocal chords the GRADTJOLA
is elastic in nature and of great flexibility. Like
the throat it expands and contracts ana can di-
minish or increase a tone slowly or rapidly and
by imperceptible degrees. The
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is the only phonograph that can accomplish this.
Even if the VOCALION did not possess
other outstanding features, this one overwhelming
attribute alone, namely, the GRADUOLA, would
be sufficient to make your choice a VOCALION.
m
y
1(8^
dl a
Cottipatty®.
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
Please send me the AEOLIAN VOCALION
Catalog.
Name.
Address.
384 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


Become a
Qualified Accountant
Our splendid course of lessons and expert coaching service will make
you a competent accountant rapidly yet thoroughly, and at small
expense.
Qualification is essential to success in the business world. No good
position can be yours if you remain unqualified.
Write or call for “GUIDE TO ACCOUNTANCY ”
Explains clearly “how to qualify” and how 5000 have already
qualified under our methods.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Ban\ Chamber,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings l
Caxton Street.
“FIRST IN IS97—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England.
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“YVai-hoi” : You’ve got to look pretty hard
to-day to find any traces of Fort Dundas
at the northern end of Melville Island
(N.T.), where on September 30, 1824, Cap-
tain Bremer in the Tamar, with soldiers of
the 3rd Regiment and convicts, landed and
established the fort. Bremer sailed from
Port Jackson on August 24 and reached Port
Essington three weeks later, but as water
couldn’t be found there the expedition, moved
on to Melville. On October 21 the settle-
ment was completed and the good work was
celebrated with gunfire and a drop of rum.
The post was! held until 1827, when a shift
was made across to the mainland at Raffles
TEE MISERABLE MINORITY.
THE SCANDALISING SHE: “Everybody knows
about it. Some people take her part
and some her husband's.”
THE MERE MALE : “And a few eccentric
individuals mind their own business.”
Bay. and, later, at Port Essington. Just
94 years later I anchored in Garden Cbve,
Apsle.v Strait, and clambered up through
Melville’s jungle and scrub, but the only
features of the settlement at Dundas I could
recognise were the big trench, a sort of
moat which surrounded the post, a few rocky
platforms where the guns had been mounted
and a well that used to be the centre of a
fine tropical garden. A wide-spreading tree,
apparently about 50 years old, is growing
straight out of the well. Towards the head
of Garden Cove, on a patch of clayey soil.
I struck the old kiln, -where the bricks
lying about are as good as when, made in
1824.
* *
“Tuan” :• China—at any rate, the part I
know—is making an earnest effort, to carry
out the opium-pro-
hibition decree, and is
doing it in character-
istic fashion. From my
office in Hankow I
saw almost every day
a batch being marched
to the execution-
ground, their crime
being that they had
been found smoking or
in possession of opium.
I’ve seen batches of
20 or 30, each having
one hand tied to
another prisoner’s
wrist by a piece of
stout string, the whole
procession guarded by
only three or-- four
soldiers. The con-
demned mostly seemed
unconcerned, but some
of them had their
faces partly covered
to prevent recognition.
While the Chinese
authorities are earn-
estly striving to break
their countrymen of
the opium habit, in
the foreign conces-
sions, and particularly
the British, one can
buy as much of the
drug as one desires.
The British are not
playing the game in
regard to opium in
China, and the
national credit among
the solidest Chinese is
suffering in consequence.
* * * »
“Emnnco”; This is how two Diggers
showed a good profit. Any estaminet-keeper
in Belgium would give up to 300 francs for
a gallon of army rum. Bill and Jim
pinched an empty demijohn and waited for
a cold night, which always meant a liberal
issue. The demi. was filled nearly to the
ton with water and set out to freeze.
Arrangement was made with the estaminet-
keeper to take delivery at 3 a.m. They
poured their allowance in on top of the
ice and carried the fake to market. The
purchaser tasted to satisfy himself that the
quality was right and paid over.
* •* * #
“Wyndhani” | Some of the big empty
spaces in the so-called maps of the North-
ern Territory are likely to be filled up soon.
David Lindsay, who has been working on
topographical surveys
from the Roper River
right doAvn to the Mac-
donnell Ranges, is now
nearly through the big
job of plotting out the re-
sults. In his wanderings
he •went into that very
little known corner of the
Territory out towards the
meeting-point of S. Aus.
and Queensland. After
a 00-mile trek across dry,
sandy hills, he came
across some very decent
saltbush country along
the valleys of streams
which once every few
generations run from
the Macdonnell Ranges
down towards Lake Eyre,
and are even alleged to
reach the lake every thou-
sandth year or so. There
/is. water in native wells
from sft. to loft, deep,
but the trouble about the
country is the getting
into it or out of it over
the sandhills. Farther
north, in the Davenport
Ranges, Lindsay came across something
that made him wonder about the allegedly
worthless spinifex country. A big fire had
cleared out rump and stump a lot of old-
man spinifex, and goods grass was knee-
high, with no signs of spinifex coming
through it. #
What a fine sense of honor the average
Digger had! Eight or nine years ago a
Christchurch (M.L.) man died owing £2OO
and leaving nothing to pay it with. When
the war broke out his young son enlisted,
insured his life and provided that in the
event' of his death his father’s creditors
should be paid the full amount owing. The
lad was killed at Gallipoli.
The promptest, most practical woman of
the year has been a client of a Maoriland
Divorce Court. She was the wife of a
M.L. Digger who, while in Blighty, had
strayed from the., chalk-line. Unfortunately,
he didn't arrive back in M.L. in time to
collect, the letters the erring damsel wrote to
him after he left her, so the billets-doux fell
into the wife’s hands, and the grease was
in the fire. She didn’t go into hysterics.
She just marched hubby to the cable office
and stood over him while he wired a message
to the English girl that his wife was going
TRAPPED.
“Don't you think yon need something round
your neck?"
“Please don't he fussy, Cecil—whose fault is
it that I haven’t got a diamond neck-
lace?”
to divorce him and that he would “act hon-
orably” to her (Miss Blighty) and marry
her. Next the prompt lady shoved a pen
across to him and made him write a confirm-
ing letter. She posted it herself and then
presented herself to the Judge in divorce,
who promptly knocked off the shackles.
“Canuck” : Met my friend the tailor lately
in a state of great unrest because he had
recklessly promised a good customer a pair
of white serge trousers. “Look here.” he
said. “I think I tried every blighted house
in town and found it no go. Finally I ran
down a few yards at Slash and Sohem’s, and
what do you think they had the nerve to
ask me for it? Three pounds a yard.” (In-
terval here for violent thoughts and excited
words.) “I’ll bet it didn’t cost them ten
bob.” (Further interval for .self-suppres-
sion.) “And I was reckoning on making
six or seven quid on that little job.” The way
these profiteers take one another down is
positively disgraceful.
• * * *
“0. Biin” : One of the fragments of the
Vic. State Federation recently held a meet-
ing to howl about its low wages ; but before
vowing to charge the Government with de-
liberate sweating, it determined not to be
laid out by a similar aspersion. Where-
fore it called up its previously-unpaid secre-
tary and handed him a whole five guineas
for his work during the last six years. By
some oversight everybody forgot to warn him
not to buy a motor-car or start a corner in
sugar.
* * * * *
“V.D.L.”: A good deal of classifying,
indexing and overhauling old Tasmanian
State records has already been done, and now
the Ministry has put J. Moore-Robinson,
journalist and *>ther things, on to complete
the work. It has an idea, too, of bringing
out an abridged history from' the records.
Anyway, tons of raw material which has
been all smothered up and buried away will
be get : at-able, and other cwts. have been lost
or stolen. Some of this old stuff has got
into the Mitchell Library in Sydney, blit
a lot more has come into the hands of pri-
vate collectors, and a great deal has no doubt
been destroyed. The best things in the records
are the despatches of the old-time Governors.
From 1824. when the island was cut partly
loose from N. S. Wales, down to the begin-
ning of Responsible Government in 1853,
these despatches are a diary of the develop-
ment of the colony, for the Governors then
ran most.things, kept their fingers on every
pulse and sent very full and complete
accounts of all that went on to the Colonial
Office. There is a rare lot of stuff about
the working "of the convict system, but it is
likely that an embargo will be kept on that
for some time to come in order to spare the
feelings of many frock-coated and fur-clad
citizens. This is the line, however, which
has been specially favored by the thieves of
the past; and many an old tale can only
be retold now from memory.
* * * *
“Copabella”: What really did happen to
his Gracious that time in 1915 when George
V. met with an “accident” in France? It
has now been “released” by a medical man.
unnamed but admitted to be a colonel, that
George was treated just like any other
wounded; and the heart touch has been
added in the cable that he was amused by
the matter-of-fact way in which stretcher-
bearers and others handled his kingly per-
son. Does this lifting of the veil portend
a full disclosure? Did some dastardly Hun.
not realising that the stage was set for a
movie show, send over a real Johnson; or
did some Tommy Bolshevik take the chance
to end the war by “potting” his sovereign V
Now that the whole incident is very ancient
history, can no Digger tell?
* * * *
“Doc.”: It might not be a disaster if
Australia had to do entirely without the
paregoric which “Bodaeh” (B. 2b/-/'-
states is now a Jap monopoly at a tremen-
dous advance in price. In the U.S., where
the “dope” maniac is a very frequent person,
evidence is accumulating that the craving
for a “shot” has in a multitude of cases
been planted in the subject during infancy,
through the over-free administration of
paregoric in soothing syrups and doctors’
prescription^.
“Ex-Dig.”: Is it known that a D.C.M.
was handed to a man in the Field Bakery
for the cool way in which he continued his
Work of turning out bread when bombs were
falling? It was a well-deserved medal, too —
and so was that won by one of our cooks,
who carried on the preparation of meals for
the front line in spite of the fact that tin 1
cook-house had already been struck three
times, with Fritz continuing his perform-
ance. Fighting with the stew-pot or the
baking-shovel does not seem very glorious;
but, when all that it meant to the boys is
considered, how far ahead it was of those
tinselly honors that were handed to soldier-
politicians !
» * * *
Some of these Billjims have quite brusque
manners. One of them —his name is Horace
—visited a Repat. department the other
day with papers ready for official signature.
He followed several others who had been
kept waiting a long time while Red Tape
went about its work with maddening
NO MAN IS A PRESENT FOOL.
“When a man's young he thinks of the time
when lie'll he an old fool."
“Yes, and when tie's old he thinks of the time
he was a young one."
deliberation. When he breasted the bar
with his papers the leisurely party on duty
turned away to make a few social remarks
—part of a serial—to one of the young
misses employed by the department. Horace
pulled out his watch arid waited 60 seconds.
Then “Hey!” he said. Nothing happened.
“Hey!” he roared. The official turned.
“Look ’ere.” said Horace, “I’ll give y’ four
minutes more. That’ll make five. If I
don’t get that signature on th’ tick you, V
me’ll be at it, ’n’ chance what’s cornin' t’
me.” He didn’t have to wait.
A CHANT OF AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Autumn is here
And the air is clear,
For the voting is done;
And the yellow sun
Has a word of cheer
For the man who won. '
But the leaves drift down,
Yellow and brown,
From deciduous tree--,'
Where the lilt of the breeze
Sings of counting the cost
To the men who lost.
Count and explain,
Explain and protest!
Sunshine and rain—
The wind knows best;
But it never will tell
Why the leaf fell.
It couldn’t hang on
And is simply gone.
Ninepence a yard,
One-and-fourpence a pound—
The days are hard,
But the world goes round.
Why it goes
Nobody knows;
And I don’t suppose
It would matter at all
If it stopped for a while
AVith a big rovind smile
To ask why the prices
Have grown so tall,
AVhy the sagoes and rites
And peppers and spices
And all the good things
Have grown wings.
The leaves fall down
And the price goes up,
And the beer is brown
And the wine in the cup
Is about as red as it used to be
Wht'n l’liaraoh was drowned in the deep Red Sea.
But the vertical motion is nothing to me,
Nor the circular shape of eternity,
Nor the fact that six is the double of three;
But what really troubles me early and late
And makes me gird at the boots of Fate,
Is that William who borrowed a threepenny bit
In the days ere the fires of war were lit,
And borrowed it often and borrowed it well
When the sun shone red or the green rain fell,
Now that the leaves are crisp and brown
On deciduous trees ere they tumble 1 down
lias put up his price to lialf-a-crown 1
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


The Studebaker' Light Four”
Summed up in one word —SATISFACTION
YOU do not buy the Series 19 Studebaker “Light Four” for
any single feature or attribute. You do not buy it only for
its endurance —however lasting*, for its comfort however
luxurious; for its economy —however saving in upkeep, tyres or
petrol.
You buy it for all of these qualities. You buy it for “Satisfaction”
in all departments. And that is what it delivers to you.
The Studebaker “Light Four” embodies a rare combination of
design, balance and mechanical perfection. It provides the maxi-
mum of comfort both in driving and riding, transmits ALL its power
and will hold the crown or side of a bad track without whip o
“side sway.”
The famous L-Head Engine, the newly--designed
Gear Boa', swung on a sub-chassis amidships, and
the Silent Hotchkiss Drive are special features.
.Magneto Ignition, in addition to the separate
starting and lighting motors; a handsome leather-
lined Kliaki Hood; the world-renowned Zenith
Carburetor, and ■’> Goodyear Tyres arc pari o]
the excellent equipment.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office For Australia : 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney*
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited, Christchurch,
Timaru, Wanganui, Palmerston North.
The Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
:'v’#
mm 'v‘
•• j
WBmu -
.
m
m
mm
fm ■ *
w - |Bhi i ■
■ ;* ,-,• .
\rv?/¥Wi ■
v%
r
SB
: r
s
! 1,1
gy
m
t\
*2
■ -JE*
§HLi
IS ;4sf
1
w
Wi-
fe
\ ! /
w -
B
■ ti
1
fi
&
ip
1
is
0
11
! t- »
'
■
/I V
ti
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
rwM
ft
-
.
HBi
■vv.
.. .......
■
.-• 7
feS
'Mm
. .
" "4 V'- 0,
■ u
m
'■U-.U
mmm
4-6


hu
Pi.UG^ LICE
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH
F
deaf?
You can HEAR,
and we prove it
by posting you an
e a s y-t o- w ear
Acousticon
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAL
No deposit, obligation, or expense. Over
330,000 delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has been using
the “Aeousticon" for more than five years!
I »m«rti\ s!tort! frt 102 D aking House, SYDNEY
LdUlovll Service vQ • Olderfleet, CollinsSt, MELS.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St.. Ghri&tc’h.
W.A.: H. Little <£• Co., 851 Hag Street, Perth.
A Signal Success
e
King Cjeorge IV
the TOP-NOTCH Scotck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Bardoc”: I’ll back Tasmanian blue-gum
against “R.A.Y.’s” (B. 12/2/’2O) bloodwood and
ironbark for general wear and tear. On the banks
of the Derwent, near Hobart, there used to be an
old ferry-boat that was composed of blue-gum in
1818 by Blackman. It had been lying between high
and low water for half a century, and showed no
signs of decay. A chunk cut from this vessel is
at present in Hobart Museum to convince any
ironbark enthusiast that; there is timber in the
Speck which comes nearer the quality of Pharaoh's
heart than anything else he has seen in the plant
line. Timber-cutters in Appleland will take an oath
that bluegum has broken more circular saws and
white ants’ hearts than anything else that grows.
# * * *
“Pick”: The yarns about abnormal wool
shorn from long-unpenned sheep are bosh. Sheep are
like other animals that grow their own raiment,
and wool, whether the beast be shorn or unshorn,
reaches to a certain length and no longer. In the
scrub-clad ranges east of Kiandra (N.S.W.) 1 have
rounded up many wild sheep, some of which had
been abroad on their own for years and had weathered
many snowy winters. In these conditions their over-
coats might have grown long with advantage; but,
though ragged and frayed, the wool was very little
better in staple than that on the same breed of shorn
sheep.
“Bright”: “Buw Newehum”(B. 10/2/'2O)
asks what becomes of the egg when it has been
stolen by a crow. I have often watched the thief
on the job. Tie would hang about the fowlyaril,
usually perched high in a tree, and wait till he
heard a hen cackle; then he would fly over and
locate the nest. Having assured himself that there
was nobody about he would fly straight to it and
pierce a hole about (he size of a threepenny-piece
in the end of the egg. He would then move off to
the butt of a tree and suck the egg. By giving it a
tilt to make it run better he could finish it off
in remarkable time, and his appetite for this tucker
seems unlimited. Apropos Crow’s capacity for lying
low, you may be in the bush for hours and not see
or hear a sign of his nibs; but immediately you
light a fire you will hear him give his dismal call.
* • * * *
“Te Wlnire”: Certain ants, as is well
known, keep “cows,” i.c., they sidle up the stems
of roses and other plants and milk sweet juice
from aphis. I have also seen ants serving some squashy
scale-insects which infested very young wattles in
the same manner. These scale-insects are rounded
in shape, White-skinned on top, and darker skinned
underneath. When pressed they exude a purplish-
red juice. Aphis seem to enjoy the milking process.
Darwin records that he stroked some aphis with a
hair, in imitation of the pressure made by the
forceps or antennae of an ant, but the “cows” would
yield no milk; but when the ants again operated,
the aphis responded and allowed the milk to exude.
A LIKELY INDICATION.
"Do you think the new baby’s conic to slay?"
"Well, lie's got all his things off.”
"Mulga ": About 18 years ago at Warnbo
station the late Will Lawton, of Drillham (Q.), in
one day rode 47 brumbies that had not looked
through a bridle before. Has it been beaten?
THE COM PLEAT ANGLER.
WALTON, JUN. ( after a yarn): "Perhaps you're a fisherman yourself, sir?"
PARSON: “ Well, in a way — I’m a Fisher of Men!”
W ALTON (looking at the girls) : "You’re got devilish- good ha it, sir!”
“Biologist'’: The cable that Huxley, jun.,
by feeding tadpoles on the thyroid gland, had as
a result 90 p.c. males, is possibly an error in trans-
mission. Normally the hermaphrodite tadpole pro-
duces an equal number of male and female frogs;
but long ago Yung proved that, by stimulating food,
the percentage of females Was increased to 92 p.c.
There is stacks of evidence that, with some insects
and reptiles, starvation of the parents or embryo
results in an excess of males. Girou and Dusing
claim that ewes have a 20 p.c. increase of female
lambs when well fed during the mating period and
some time later. This is the only alleged instance
of nutriment affecting sex in the higher vertebrates.
I wonder if any Australian observations have been
made on the subject.
“Billy T.”: The two Bensons, Fred and
George, and Tom Aber pitched their common tent
on the bank of Pipeclay Creek at Tanyard, opposite
the township, and were content with the location
for about three weeks, when they discovered that
in settling there they had adopted
serious responsibilities. Pipeclay
Creek carried all the slurry from
the Euchre Pack, the .Joker and
the three Aces, and was in some
places six feet deep in oozy,
treacherous white mud. Where
the boys were camped they were
well within hearing of the stone
ford, and of any hapless inebriate zig-
zagging home late after a spree and get-
ting himself bogged in the clay, as they
found happened too often for comfort and
the quiet life. When they had turned
out of bunks one wet, dark night to
rescue Poleman, the fifth victim, Fred
Henson struck. “We get out of this hole
to-morrow,” said he. “I’m sick of this
game. We’ll shift up the hill and let
somebody else have a shot at rescue
work.” “But what about any poor devi)
that may get bogged?” said Aber. “Let
him stay bogged till the morning,” re-
plied Fred. “It will teach him decent
living.” So the tent was shifted, and
George awoke on the following Sunday
morning, and shook up Tom. “Fred ain’t
in his bunk,” said he. “I suppose he's
shickerin’. I must get up the town-
ship on his track.” He hurried off, and found a
miserable wretch bogged well above his waist in the
slurry bv tlie ford and nearly done for. The un-
fortunate had been there for hours. It was Fred.
“Bill R.”: When your rifle-barrel has be-
come bell-mouthed from long usage and begins to
throw the bullets round the corner, try this. Insert
an unused bullet, nose first, into the muzzle, and
judge how far inwards the wearing permits a lateral
movement. With a fiat file or hack-saw cut the barrel
square off at this point and the gun will do accurate
shooting again.
“Rosalie”: I corroborate “TimoV state-
mont (B. 4/3/’2o> that W. It. Carver was the
champion horseman of Australia. Apart from hi-
horsemanship, his stat ing powers were as great as
John Bull’s. It was a gay occasion when he en-
livened the otherwise dreary proceedings of country
sllows by casually strolling into the “wild west"
° utflts where an umvar - v Proprietor was offering £5O
tor an ? onc who co . uld sto .v aboard his outlaw for
more than three minutes. The climax was reached
when Cal ' ver > having completed his part of the
Contract, demanded the £5O, which he had as much
hope of getting as Australia has of redeeming her
national debt. Still, he got a lot of fun out of
thc i ok< ‘-
CRIBED, CABINED AND COSFIXED.
OUTBACK BILL (who has suddenly “hit" the
overland telegraph line about 500 miles
inland) : “(laud 'strath!) more blarstcd
civilisation!"
(Continued on page 22.)
THE WOOLSHED BALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They came from the stations near and far,
And they came from the fettlcrs’ camps,
And the shed was bright with the flaring light
That shone from the swinging lamps;
The ladies nodded and wagged their heads
As they sat beside the wall
With the giggling girls, their hair in curls,
That came to the woolslied ball.
And the men stood round the door,
Or scraped candle on the floor,
While the fiddle quavered softly and the concertina
crooned.
"Select per partners for the first set!
Prominaid. Prominaid!”
The men came up with a rolling gait;
But the younger ones were shy
In their slop-made suits and their heavy boots
And collars inches high;
And some wore spurs, and the Bathurst burrs
Had clung to their colored tweeds;
But they pleased the girls, who’d their hair in curls
And their necks adorned with beads.
And the colored tweeds were soiled
By the saddles newly oiled;
But they promenaded gaily till the fiddle found the
note.
"Soloot partners! Double. IJetty!
An’ half-right an’ left.”
There was swishing in and swishing out,
For the ladies’ dresses trailed,
And a rustling sound as they whirled around
And the concertina wailed;
And jokes were flung as they swayed and swung
Or slipped on the greasy stands,
The nimble toe and the .lull and slow,
Till the M.C. clapped his hands;
And the perspiration dripped
As the dancers gaily' tripped
By the matrons gazing proudly on their daughters
in the set.
"Places! An’ order for Mister Mabbs's recitation.
Onloh !”
Then Mobbs recited a stirring tale,
’Twas of hunger, death and snow ;
They said “Ongcore!” and shouted “More!”
But the boys yelled “Let her go!”
Then the mothers crept where the babies slept
By the press or in the bin,
Where a sagging skirt or a misfit shirt
Was fixed with a safety-pin.
And the men went out to see
Were the horses getting free.
And some to take their socks off, for their boots
began to pinch.
“Select partners for sirklir iralsc.
An’ prominaid. Prominaid!”
Then old and young got to their feet
And tiie tunes were sweet and new.
”J’was “After Hie Ball” ; then, best of all,
Came “Two Little Girls in Blue.”
And the pace was fast as they circled past
The fiddler in his chair,
And some of the dancers sang the words
And some of them hunipied . the air.
Then the girls hung "close and tight,
Goggling eyes with all their might,
While the older ones were winded and were troop-
ing- to their seats. *
"W a lance an’ reverse. Prominaid to supper.
Prominaid. Prominaid!”
The tables creaked with the loads they boro
Of beef and mutton and sweets, '
Dry-salted ham and home-made jam,
And the wool-bales did for seats;
All round the shed and overhead
Were wattle and gum-tree leaves—
They laughed and joked, for the tea was smoked,
And the men rolled up their sleeves.
Then a veteran made a speech,
Praising all and thanking each.
This disturbed a friendly ’possum that was camping
lip above.
"Miss (iilcs will oblige the comp’ng with a tong,
‘Sweet Marcc.’ Ordah .”’
Polka, quadrille and circular waltz,
Till the dawn came up the shoots,
With measured beat, (he aching feet
Bagged round in the heavy boots ;
Then “Ladies’ Chain” to an old refrain
When the lamps were burning low,
And the sky was grey with the break of day
And the stars began to go.
Patient horses gnawed the rails,
Hunched their backs and jambed their tails;
For the break of day was chilly and their hair stood
up on end.
“Should old erquaintence be forgot
lliu the dogs uv old lung syne.’’
Then the harness straps were buckled,
And the traps were turned around,
But a joke was played, and rugs mislaid ;
Then a search till they were found.
And the young ones wait, by rail or gate,
Or hunt for the things they miss,
And some of the girls (with their hair in curls)
Hang back for a parting ki>s.
And when they get away
II is past the break of day,
And the horses need no urging when their heads
are facing home.
“117.0 n hack, Blossom! Bail tip , Hose!
Bail up! Bail up!”
N.S.W.
JIM GRAUAME.


A FEW GOOD NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
The Best of Australian Authors at
1/- per volume; 1/1i posted.
“WOLAROI’S CUP,” by Ambrose Pratt.
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER,” by Ralph Stock.
“SILVER STAR,” by Randolph Bedford.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH,” by Don Delaney.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,” by Con Drew.
“THE MYSTERY OF THE BOXING CONTEST,”
by Bert James.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR LAUNCH,”
by Arthur H. Adams.
“LYDIA’S LOVERS,” by Gerald R. Baldwin.
“THE CALLING VOICE,” by E. F. Christie.
“SOUTH SEA SINNERS,” by Arthur Crocker.
“SALLY: THE TALE OF A CURRENCY LASS,”
by J. H. M. Abbott.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,” by Norman Lindsay.
Steele Rudd’s Selection Stories.
Thomas E. Spencer’s Humorous Novels.
Beatrice Grimshaw’s Island Adventure Yarns.
Arthur Wright’s Famous Sporting Novels.
All included in the “Bookstall” Series. .
Write for a Complete Catalogue (free)
of over 100 Australian Shilling Novels.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers, or dineCt from the Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY,
Y/,.
mM
x
w
ts
e
Shirfs
O
THISTLE SHIRTS are never skimped
in material or rushed in the making.
They are cut on generous lines—they
fit, are comfortable, and have all the
niceties of style that characterise Shirts
sold at considerably higher prices.
All Clothing Stores sell THISTLE SHIRTS.
Try THISTLE PYJAMAS also «
A lexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.
Makers—BRISBANE
& SYDNEY, as. 25
%
gfrhirl-
3€*€> thi
br
r
c?&
pud
%
M
JY 92
Mat*
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
Qf J.Collis Browne's
sc
I'he Original, and Only Cenuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE TOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS ami effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
.NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
- ACTS LIKE A CHAUM IN
Diarrhcea &. Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemist). Prices in England, lit, SJ-, 5]
Made in England.
Our New Soft Collar Shirt
with “TEE” Soft Collar to Match.
The Leviathan “TEE”
is the ideal shirt for
general and holiday
wear. You will notice
the stripes are round
the collar, and a
special eyelet for pin.
Shirts fitted with re-
inforced necks, sleeve
lifts and soft gauntlet
cuffs.
In CAMBRIC, in a
variety of black or blue,
block or fine stripes.
Sizes .Him to 1 Tin.
neckbands.
10/6
A
'
y.
S’
riot
IN FANCY ZEPHYRS,, splendid washing material,
unequalled for service, in black, blue or lielio
designs. In white grounds, complete
with “TEE" collar to match.
13/6
THE HAT WE RECOMMEND.
PURE FUR—Australia’s Best.
Absolutely l\cnv. Stylish, Hat set brim,
and cait edge, in assorted green effects
olive, ivy. myrtle and bronze, with self
bands; also slate and grey, with contrast-
ing bands.
SPECIAL VALUE, 21/-
Order by Post. We Pay Carriage.
d
I r **
Leviathan
PTY. LTD.,
Corner Svvanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
A
rn*m
THE NEW MAXWELL"
THREE Hundred Thousand Maxwell Motor Cars, built upon
the original, simple motor design, speak well for the
designers.
Ride either at the wheel or in the tonneau, and you will
discover the reason for the Maxwell’s popularity. There is a
certain ease that only comes with motor cars that are designed and
built right for genuine riding comfort.
In operating a Maxwell you will appreciate the luxury of
motoring without prohibitory cost.
Maxwell owners say they run more miles per gallons of petrol
and most miles per tyre.
The appearance of to-day’s Maxwell adds distinction to
economy—it is a car that any owner may be proud of.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICM..
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address; “Liandum —New Tori:."
ell
%0
More miles per gallon.
More miles on lyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


ART
TRADE MARK.
Sterling facts
concerning Metal Ceilings.
On Economic and Artistic Points Stamped Steel is now employed for every class of Building—
ECONOMICALLY, because of its Permanency, Adaptability, Simplicity in Fixing, and light weight for Transport.
ARTISTICALLY, because it is the best possible medium for accurately reproducing the modeller’s art.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
MANUFACTURERS.
SHOWROOMS: —SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE. HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W. POSTAL ADDRESS: Box G.P.0., Sydney.
“Jim Carew”: Entry from my father’,
diary, dated 1839, relative of the scarcity of white
women
I was at Blackman’s Inn, Mudgee, when a well-
dressed man rode into the yard with a young blade
gin seated behind him. She was good-looking- and
cleanly dressed in a skirt and ’possum-skin rug.
The horseman was a Government official and had
ridden in to conduct the court. He lived down
the river, but always brought his gin with him
for fear some inconsiderate Binghi would steal her
during his absence. Mrs. Burgess, the cook at Black-
man’s, got half a crown to provide dinner and keep
the gin sober while the court was being held. She
(the gin) belonged to the Bathurst tribe, and for
a gin was quite a beauty.' Her name was Dithabba
(meaning Pretty Flower), but she was generally
called Biddy.
That Government official, between ourselves, founded
one of the “first families.”
“Zanthus”.: Away out in the country
along- the border between AVestralia and the Terri-
tory, back of the Sturt’s Creek region, there are
aborigines who have never seen a white man. Last
year a party went out from the Sturt’s Creek cattle
country to have a look at the unoccupied lands to
the south, taking some natives with them. The
blackfellows they came upon bolted for life, and
when the tame blacks managed to get in touch with
them they asked what sort of beast this was. They
supposed that the white men and their horses were
all of a piece, and some new kind of horror that
they hadn’t heard of before.
SAVING HER FACE.
THE PARSON: “Conic, just a little gift for
the poor heathen —you must have some-
thing in that large purse.”
THE PREY: “Yes, but pink looks simply
atrocious on a dark skin.”
“Pongo”: “Budgerygflr’s” application (B.
4/3/’20) for recognition of Chris Larsen’s alleged
feat of putting in 417 posts in a day wants a heap
of evidence to support it. Four hundred and seven-
teen posts! ’Strutli, I thought I was a fair fencer
after slapping up 60 in nine hours at 7s. a chain,
seven posts to the chain, holes 20 inches deep, three
wires. (This price included splitting posts.) How
deep did Larsen sink his holes? What sort of
country was it, and did he buy his post-holes at the
store ?
“Ida D.”: The native name of the Snowy
River is Margolong. “Mar” means snow and “ong”
refers to water, so it might briefly be translated
as “snow water.” Another Monaro name is Jiinen-
huen, which means bandicoot, and the owners of
the station have the figure of a bandicoot on their
motor-car.
AT THE CLUB HOUSE
“Is that fellow a new member?”
“Yes, sir.”
"Humph! I see he does the whole course with his iron!”
“Expert Too”: While a father and son
were rabbiting on Strickland (Tas.) the other day
the boy was bitten oti the thumb by a black snake.
Having no other means of meeting the emergency
the father told the kid to hold the thumb to the
muzzle of the gun, which he did, and dad blew the
member away. They come of a sturdy stock in that
part of the Speck—the upper part of the valley
of the Derwent. The only curses are snakes and
squatters. As in many other parts of the Com-
monwealth the population has been sacrificed to
build our bloated cities. Not so many years ago
you might stand on the highlands above the town-
ship of Hamilton and the breeze would waft you
the hum of scores of harvesting machines, and the
landscape, dotted with farmers’ cottages, hedges of
hawthorn and undulating fields of waving' corn, would
make a man feel glad that he had eyes to see. The
old mill on the banks of the Shannon ground fidui-
all the year round. To-day this fair land is ■in
the grip of the squatter. Cottages have been razed
to make way for sheep. Near the township of the
Ouse 32 farms were wiped out along the main road
within a distance of three miles, and the old mill
at Millbrook on the bank of the Ouse just below
them has been idle ever since.
• • * •" •
“D.F.”: Port Phillip seems to be a
favorite breeding-place for the catossums or poss-
cats. Portsea has long had one or two with a
’possum’s fur and tail and a cat’s face, build and
habits; and now Portarlington, on the other side,
has sprung a family of three. Some suppose they are
the result of a cross between cat and ’possum, but
that is impossible—the races are too far apart to
mix. The explanation, no doubt, is pre-natal in-
fluence of the same type as sometimes results in a
human youngster being born with some animal
markings about his bod.v.
“Mulga”: The best horsetailer I ever
knew was on a large Western Queensland cattle-run.
We were working about SO prads in the muster
and he had about 18 bells. He knew the tone of
every one of them when he. heard it, and could also
tell what other horses would be running with the
wearer of that particular tinkler. One frosty morn-
ing he bet the cook a pound of tobacco that before
leaving the camp he would tell him where every
horse was running (about 20) that he had to bring
up that morning. We were all borrowing a pipeful
from the tailer a few days afterwards.
“Widgee”: The new young man at Ding-
dong Downs was in the township for the first time
since his arrival from England. Outside the Far-
mers’ Arms a wild-whiskered soak bailed him up
with a hoarse “Coin’ t’ shout a bloke a shleever ?”
Arthur gazed at the apparition for a moment, open-
mouthed. “Sorray,” he explained, “but Ai don’t
speak Owstralian,” and passed inside to take a glass
of waine with himself.
“Hawkesbury”: “I have only come for a
flrestick”—thlß is a phrase still in use along the
Hawkesbury to describe a short visit. In the old
days matches were not used, and if your fire went
out you ran to the nearest neighbor for a flrestick;
and not having the skill of the abos. you had to
hurry back.
“Lou”: Some stock-horses get so accus-
tomed to having a few “pigroots” on being ' mounted
that it becomes a sort of sacred rite with them, and
when, years after, they are too old and stiff-legged
for stock work, and are put on to the easy jobs
of the out-stations, it is amusing to see them still
doing their act. One old prad in my lot used to
put his head down and run backwards a few steps.
Another would gallop off with his head hanging and
think he was doing something terrible. Another used
to wheel round three times and then prance off with
head high and tail out and reckon he was Snips
himself. An old fleabitteu grey used to buck with
her hind part only, and that was her worst. They
all did their turns with amiable regularity and
seemed well pleased and satisfied that their wicked
reputations were still intact.
“Pick”: When --the mob have ceased
skinning me because of my assertion that Binghi
was an expert at cannoning a nulla on to his
object from the side of a tree or a hummock of
earth, some of ’em might take
time off to consider the peculiar
shape of the implement and why
it was formed that way. For a
direct throw the warrior invari-
ably used his most effective
weapon, the spear; but when a
foeman was protected by an inter-
vening vegetable or anthill, the
only way to visit him with a clout
was with a missile that could be
glanced round the corner. The
elongated taper of the nulla’s
rounded but somewhat flattened
handle-end and the abrupt taper
to a sharp point at the business
extremity were fashioned to facili-
tate the ricochet. A few hunters
among the South Coast (N.S.W.)
and Gippsland darkies are still
expert with the nulla, although
the gun is nowadays more in their line, and I have
seen at least one clever shot made with the old-
time projectile. That was when Charley Alexander,
a Delegate (N.S.W.) black, killed our drover-
overseer’s delinquent cattle-dog crouching behind a
wire-netting fence. ' Charles got him by glancing
his nulla from the top rail.
“Wandi”: In reply to “U.P.” (B.
5/2/’2O), it is a common practice of Willie Wagtail
to murder his progeny if they have been handled by
humans. If Wra. doesn’t go the length of murder he
doesn’t hesitate at desertion. The lyre-bird wiU also
abandon its nest if an egg has been handled. Most
species of feathered parents, though they will not
leave the young or eggs, fuss around angrily before
renewing domestic relations.
‘•Melos'’: Tell ‘-Dolphiu” (B. 20/2/’2O)
that the swift passes the summer on the mainland
and departs in early autumn for Asia. One bana
passes up the eastern side of the continent, thence
by way of Torres Strait and Malay Archipelago to
China ; another lot takes the western route, and, it
is supposed, joins the other travellers among the
islands north of Australia. Far up toward Eastern
Siberia the bird settles down for a period of house-
keeping, for all birds, except those of the tropical
parts, breed in the coldest portion of their itinerary.
“Weasel”: The common trapdoor-spider
which makes his home in the ground has a cousin
on Moa Island (Torres Strait) who lives in just
the same sort of home but makes it on the trunk-
of trees. When Dr. Brooke Nieholls was up there
lately on a bird-hunting expedition, sent out b>
H. L. White, of Scone, he found several of them.
It shows the spider's sense, for in the rainy season
he would soon be flooded out if he lived on the
ground.
“Onlooker”: I want to know something
about this. At Deewhy (N.S.W.) sandhills I caught
a couple of white sand-crabs, and discovered that
the right claw on each was twice as big as the
left. In case they were the freaks of the family
I collected seven more, and in every case the right
paw was large and stronger than the left. Have
these crabs got the Digger Evans characteristic?
• * * *
“Eddyson”: A long, low hill, with two
staggering, hump-backed trees, a sandy creek-bed
and a four-roomed weatherboard house that seemed
to simmer in the heat like something frying, a few
decrepit outhouses set down promiscuously about the
home, a dog jumping on his chain, a morose cow
using the hen-house as a scratching-post—it was
a delightful landscape to be sick in, but Grove-
had no choice. The arid emptiness of the creek
had been the last provocation. He could not even
make the house, but lay down in the stunted shadow
of a stump, and here Mrs. Morris found him, already
a little demented. She helped him into the house
and put him to bed, and it was a week before he
could get about again. In the second day of his
convalescence lie spoke of a possible Mr. Morris.
“You seem to be very much alone here,” said he-
“is it quite safe? While I’Ve been sitting out
there I have noticed a man slinking about the hill.”
Mrs. Morris seemed a little confused, but assured
him she was all right. Next day Groves said, “1
think I can make Mailend now, Mrs. Morris. Some
day I will pay you for all your kindness.” The
woman blushed and stammered. “I can’t ask you
to stay no longer,” she said, “ ’cause of my hus-
band.” “What, is he jealous?” “Jealous? Oh, no,
only shy. He’s that shy you wouldn’t believe. He
clears out the moment he sees any one cornin’, and
won’t come back while they stay. That man you
saw sneakin about the hill was my husband.” Groves
went his way, not particularly surprised, having had
much experience of the shyness the solitudes breed.
Ten months passed before he had an opportunity of
calling to repay Mrs. Morris. He inquired after
Morris. “I ain’t seen him for weeks,” said Mrs.
Morris. “You see they’re buildin’ a bridge oyer
the crick, and two iv the men are boardin’ with
me. Ah, there’s Bill now!” She pointed to a
figure visible on the ridge of the hill. “He’s coinin’
round.” Groves got a job on the bridge, and in-
duced. Mrs. Morris’s two boarders to join him in a
batching establishment. He then set himself to
cultivate Morris’s acquaintance, but couldn’t get
within a quarter of a mile of him. One day, how-
ever, when he went up to the house while Bill was
at work in the yard, he noticed that Morris had
not taken to the hill as usual, and flattered himself
that he was getting along. While he remained in
the house, however, Mrs. Morris betrayed marked
uneasiness, and at last she said, almost in tears,
“Please, I wish you'd go, Mr. Groves. My Bills
bin and jumped in the well, and I’ll never get him
out while you’re about.” Then Groves gave Morris
best.
HOW THE SCHEME WORKED OUT.
COUNSEL FOR THE DEFENCE: “You told the
accused yon suspected a certain person
stole the money, and at your request he
pave you a pound to make this party
drunk so that he would talk. Mow, what
did he have to say?”
THE WITNSS: “I don’t remember; you see.
I had to have as many drinks as he did.
An apple shown in Melbourne the other
day weighed 21b. 2oz-, and measured 17in. round
the waist. Any bigger?
COOLGARRDIE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Owing to the scarcity of building materials
in AVestralia, brick houses at Coolgardie and other
decadent mining towns are being pulled down, and
tiio bricks transported elsewhere.”
The Old Camp drowses in the noonday heat,
A faint mirage gleams on the salt-bush plain,
And, ghost-like, down the echoing sunlit street
An errant footfall beats the slow refrain —
“Passed on!”
The gaunt, grey dumps stand stark against tin
Pity,
The human anthills of a vanished day,
And shattered brace, and poppet-head awry,
Accent the desolation and decay—
Passed on 1
Gone are the roaring, reckless nights and days,
The forthright, urgent men who fought and strove,
The life and laughter of the crowded ways
AVhen comedy and drama interwove—
Passed on!
The eager men who crossed the seven seas
To dare the dangers of the desert track,
Foredoomed to hardship in a search for ease,
The pioneer, the sturdy knave, the quack—
Passed on!
The crowded trains go roaring east and west,
AVherc sweating teams to the condenser toiled;
The hum of labor, all the fevered quest
For gold, is stilled, the Old Camp lies despoiled-
Passed on!
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


DUN l-OPS
GIVE THE BEST SERVtCE
wm
*^s.,
JL
*■<
, - - r_r_ jMiintf
>
.Jfjjgfe >'»' "
; - «rr
SP<*#_-«*- * -
B«pi
.
~ ' ;: « *
12f«3
Vt*-***" -S® s^
jutdnstaH
§um
V't* "w £*j
C ! s?%*??
,«'!T'.
t£2fc*3
: &'AHs
|M
' A-
■.. .s.a*k
•• f ~
-
,
IS*#
* v
W '
■V«
PfgifgS
Hfe **3s ,^*§s
**#**»■:*
■*W
■
.. S&Jmmx'Mdk ••
■
V
M
50-
StSl
r
ifS
'■m.
~ *%< ** &&'' -7f"
.■SMB
77
- «*. *
. 7\, • ..
-~7 V
® I i I ’>«< ''f
■
gkpy
K>
■
#/i:
'
‘
- :■:
w*\
% . ‘
f ; ;^
**
T ; .
Sg£
:*M
■ *••■;
■ ’
Mgs
' A • r < V
:
I wU
: %>»
1181111
~'■■«-■■ ';** . .. :
»*&>»■ •
■
• '' y % ■s£-&’ '*w v - 7 , ' ™ ' %
' •■ 3£/t -
iliiliiflSßSsll
-' X
m |
ld% ?»Ml» i ,' * •?'"
*S
»•.# '"4^
*
J|nirai — *~ '
"
llrtJlisS
' "‘ / -•
is*** : ' :
Mmm -t“
*.4j<i^! l^S^SS^ T ~cf^
m
A
■
The illustration depicts a Crossley Car being
towed— owing to magneto being under water—
across the Kiah River (near Twofold Bay, on the
N.S.W. and Victorian Coastal Route), owing to
>the bridge being washed away by floodwaters.
It’s one of the unexpected incidents that lend
zest and interest to overlanding, but despite such
experiences this fine route affords one of the most
picturesque and sporty motor tours in Australia.
It's a run that calls for the best of tyres—covers
that will stand up to hard work without undue-
wear or trouble. It's a trip that emphasises the
superior wearing qualities and dependability of
and its such runs that convince motorists that for
reliability, satisfactory service and economy
these Australian made covers and tubes stand
right out by themselves for value and mileage.
Always use “Dunlop.%" it pays! Agents can
supply in Grooved or Railroad types, for all cars.
List on request.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States
and N.Z.


Arp j/ou sure* that's
PLUME
That is what careful motorists say.
They feel sure then of getting
Benzine that will ensure easy start-
ing, sweet running, more miles.
It is significant that Plume is the
choice of Government flying men,
Government Departments, Fire
Brigades, Ambulance Associations,
and thousands of motorists.
Put Plume to the test in your car.
Follow the example of the men
who say:
“Are you sure
that’s Plume?”
Tv!?
w
»
w
\N
Vacuum Oil Company
Fty. Ltd.
sxnvq NHor
SOMETHING About RAMS
Not our friends the woolly kings of the Merino world, but the Hydraulic Ram,
a very profitable self-acting machine for pumping water.
All these machines require to actuate them is a head or fall of water, even as low
as four feet, and they will pump water day and night without attention.
The motive force is the descending stream of water, which, entering the ram,
compresses the air therein, by means of a dash valve and air chamber, to a higher
pressure than that of the static head of the water. This hydraulic pressure forces
the water out of the ram through the delivery pipe to the point required. These
rams will deliver water to an elevation as high as three hundred feet, or half as
high again as the height of the tower of the Sydney General Post Office. They
will deliver as much as 4SOO gallons in 24 hours, and their limit of delivery from
the source is nearly half a mile.
•
A Danks’ Ram and a Running Creek Mean a
Plentiful Water Supply.
Have you a running stream or a dam with a fall? Why not use it for cheap water
to the home and farm? We make these rams on scientific lines from tested
formula?. They are durable, efficient, and require little attention. If you have a
stream, creek or dam available, let us know the fall, the height and distance to
which you want the water delivered, and we will tell you what size ram and
piping to use, and quote a price for same. Are you interested? Then write for
the informative pamphlet, “The Hydraulic Ram on the Farm,” by the late Mr.
Henry Lord, G.T.C.A.C.
We are also manufacturers and patentees of the “BILLAB9NG” Windmill, and
manufacturers of "BILLABONG” Pumps and Cattle Troughing.
Our stocks and experience are at your disposal.
Visit the Danks* Exhibit at the Royal Show,
and inspect a working Exhibition of these helps to primary
production.
We will be in “Main Street,” at the sign of the two big flags—
DANKS and DASPYL.
JOHN DANKS * SON PTY. LTD.,
324 Pitt St. (near Liverpool St.), Sydney; and 391 Bourke St., Melbourne
composure and started ou a career of travel
which brought him at length to the Argen-
tine, where he became a farmer and man of
substance and appeared to have surrendered
to a staid middle-age. But the war wrenched
his mind away from his superphosphates and
tractors, and he was soon back in Spain
preaching the cause of the Allies to an army
and aristocracy dangerously smitten with
Prussian valiance. Subsequently he went to
Paris, and is still living there, apparently
held by new Inspirations. Ibanez is a fine,
handsome black-bearded fellow, and is the
subject of a great portrait by his country-
man Sorolla, which presents the remarkable
eyes in their favorite fighting attitude.
JEAN SIBI.
A Page of Irish History
“Ulsterman's” view of it:—
The writer of the article on Ireland (Red
Page, 19/2/'2O) makes some strange state-
ments and arrives at some strange conclusions.
His most startling statement is: “The ancestors of
’tile electors of the United Kingdom’ invaded Ireland
in 1170 just as Germany invaded Belgium in 1914.”
As a matter of fact, the “invasion” of Ireland was
begun through Dermot Macmorrougli, King of
Leinster, inviting adventurers from Wales to assist
him in regaining his kingdom, from which he had
been driven. Before King Henry 11. of England
followed these adventurers he received a “bull” from
(he Pope making a present of Ireland to him on
condition that he brought the “barbarous” people
of that country to a proper observance of their
religious duties, and in particular that they should
be compelled to pay “Peter’s pence” regulai’ly.
Certainly Dermot. who had been kicked
out of Ireland by his subjects for what we
would call “Prussianism,” came bac-k there
with Welsh and English mercenaries whom
lie had levied under the authority of Henry
of England. But this was a mere raid. The
Anglo-Norman invasion proper was begun
14 years later by the Englishman Strong-
bow and completed by Henry in person, and
as the Hibernian chronicler, quoted on the
Red Page, said. “Saxon foreigners have been
in Erin since then.”
The alleged Papal “bull” has nothing to
do with the ease. A Papal “bull” wouldn’t
have justified the invasion of Catholic Bel-
gium. But, in any case, the “bull” story
is now held to be apocryphal. The only
first-hand evidence in support of it is found
in the “Metalogus” of John of Salisbury,
who visited Pope Adrian IV. at the behest
of King Henry 11. He claimed to have
brought back “a letter” from the Pope
giving Henry the overlordship of Ire-
land. He probably felt that he had
to claim some result from his trip. The
“Metalogus” appeared after both Henry and
Adrian had died. No contemporary chronicler
ever saw the original letter, though an
alleged copy figured, many years after John
had passed away, in the “Expugnatio Hiber-
nica”; Henry did not preserve the precious
document; and no references to it exist in
the Vatican archives. For the past half-
century commentators have regarded it. as
mythical. (See Round’s “The Pope and the
Conquest of Ireland.”) The legend survived
so long, probably, for the reason that Pope
Adrian was an Englishman, and was likely
for that reason to be thought to favor the
idea of Ireland being Seized by his fellow-
countrymen.
Another Australian Verse-maker
Ernest Watt, of a well-known Sydney
family, who published a translation of Pros-
per Merrim&e some years ago, has now pro-
duced a book of poems. Rejected for active
service, Watt released a fit schoolmaster in
England and held his job for him till the
fighting ended. The life has colored his
verses; but one set rather anticipates the
event: —•
Bravo, old Oxford! Passing strange
Thou shouldst inaugurate the change!
So thou hast east aside at last
The old traditions of the past,
And wilt no more perforce instil
Into thy sons against their will
Those solid tomes of classic lore
Which always were their fate before.
Greek is not. dead! It lives again:
For, limiting the classic vein
To those alone who beauty' seek,
Thou hast prolonged the life of Greek.
In fact, the classics only became optional
at Oxford at the beginning of this month.
In “My Grave” the writer hits on a happy
idea :—•
When I am dead and softly laid to rest
Plant o’er my grave a tree,
That there the birds may haply make their nest
And sing their songs to me.
And when you come, whom once I lov’d so well,
And hear their voices thrill,
You’ll know my friends are singing just to tell
llow muc'h 1 love you still.
(From the publishers, Harrison and Sons,
London.)
A Satchel of Books
The Specials, by Col. W. T. Hcay (W.
Heinemann). Ten years ago the Melbourne
Herat, it’s managing editor went to London
as the paper’s correspondent, and being still
there in 1914, but too old to beat his pen
into a sword, he got, instead, into the uni-
form of a special constable, and became
Inspector-General of the useful war-time
force. Twenty-thousand men were wanted
to police London in short shifts, and this is
the story of how they were organised and
what they did. It might have been made far
more interesting than it is for the ordinary
reader, but the narrative was “written for
and dedicated to” the men who formed the
force. Still, incidentally, there is something
of general interest in the story of the air
raids.
The Defeat of Austria as Seen by the
Seventh Division, by E. C. Crosse, who chap-
lained with the force (Deane and Sons.
Loud.). The story commences with the sud-
den movement of the Italo-British Army in
North Italy on October 12, 1918; and as
the Austrians asked for peace and quietness
on the 30th the campaign covered IS days.
As the Hun tail was from the beginning a
mere wet-blotting-paper tail, the happenings
along the Piave were not inspiring—nothing
like those on the French or Serbian or Pales-
tine front. In a time of big things they
were hardly worth writing about even by a
better writer.
Prisoners: A Ploy, by E. U. Davidson
(Endacott, Melbourne). An attempt to
wrap two or three commonplaces in an atmos-
phere of great mystery. Except at one
point where it becomes incomprehensible the
thin thing is nicely clone.
The Vital Message, by Conan Doyle (Ilod-
cler and Stoughton). A sequel to “The New
Revelation,” a confession of spiritualistic-
faith published last year. The writer fore-
casts a world-wide awakening of spirituality
due to the tragic testing of nations in the
fire of war, and makes the extraordinary
claim that “it is only the occultist who can
possibly understand the Scriptures as being
a real, exact record of events.” In spite of
much that is grotesque, The Vital Message
is comparatively free from that dogmatic
bluster which creates immediate antipathy.
The illustrations could have been omitted
with benefit. The photographic plate is a
lying witness.
From Croft and Claehan . by Murdoch
Mac Lean (Deane and Sons. London). This
is a book of verse from the Scottish High-
lands ; and the claim is made that Mac Lean
is the first poet of his race to write of his
own land in English. The verse is not had,
but there is not much poetry in it and not
much light on the Highlands in what there
is. The writer, in addition, very often intro-
duces the Gaelic word or phrase in the, midst
of commonplace English; and the effect is
not cheering. Here is a sample of tin- purely
English stuff: —
Broke (he storm in its anger foul,
Heaven with the lightning’s flame was rent.
Demon’s shriek and the kelpie’s howl
Kang- through the rending firmament,
Pitiless, white, at the rocky shore
Hash’d the waves with a surly roar.
The Inky Way
“Albert W. Mclnnes” : Because Harrison
Owen has the shamelessness (and also the
ingenuousness) to confess that “about half
the book [“Mount. Marunga Mystery”] con-
sists of padding, introduced for impurely
commercial reasons”; and because he later
states that the avowed object of both Ham-
son Thackeray and William Makepeace
Owen is to “give the publishers what they
want”—because of these tilings, I commend
to him the following passage:—
By the inevitable law of self-perfection, the
poet must sing, tire sculptor think in bronze, and
the painter make the world a mirror for his moods,
as surely and as certainly as the hawthorn must
blossom in spring and the corn turn to gold at
harvest-time, and the moon in her ordered wander-
ings change from shield to sickle and from sickle
to shield.
If a man is not nromnted hv “the inevit-
afitawo?kSClf‘PerfeCtion,M ™ him b 0 Silent
oi gee woik.
Jack Bridges, one of the sub-editors of
work tor the chain of papers in the Com-
monwealth and Maoiilaud. Voting enough
to be brimful ot enthusiasm, Bridges will
bring to bear on his job experience gained
in Adelaide (whence he came), Newcastle
and Sydney. S. E. Wilson, another News
sub, goes to Sydney StTN and has been re-
placed by the athletic ex-Queenslander
Graham Kent.
“0.K.”: Maxim Gork.v’s belated denun-
ciation of Bolshevist rule as “the vivisec-
tion of human beings and great workers”
recalls the consternation of Frankenstein
when the Monster got going. Gorky did
his bit to encourage the new rulers, whom
he now accuses of being “as brutal as their
predecessors.” And he cannbt plead that
lie acted without knowledge of Russian
character. For an analysis of it one can refer
to, say, “The Man Who Was Afraid,” and
having read that pessimistic novel one may
wonder at the author having ever dreamed
that violent revolution in Russia could be
followed by “intellectual regeneration”
within 20 years.
“Patrian”: Re Havelock Ellis (Red Page
4/3/’2O) and his theories re “Birth Con-
trol,” I latelv came across an article of his
in which lie quotes Australia and MX. as
shining examples:—
The result is that Australia and Maoriland, where
preventives of conception are hawked from door
to door, instead of being awful examples of race
suicide actually present the highest rate of race-
increase in the world.
I am keeping an eye on our vegetable John.
IGNIS Eatuus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Novelists were basing their novels not on romance
and sexual passion, as previously, but on the relation
of mankind with the future world and the after life. - ’
Departing I V.A. Governor Ellison Macartney.
Many a time I've heard these Governors
Talking the rot that is their sign and patent;
But Ellison, departing from these shores,
Newly discovers foolishness long latent,
Saying that literature is done with life,
And all its hating, loving, calm and strife.
He who should write as if he knew beyond
The crime called death is ready for the proctors- -
Ready to have his will contested as one fowl
Of being closely tested by two doctors;
A maniac who loves the life that may be,
And scorns the books about love and the baby.
When all the Conan Doyles and dotard Lodges
Are brought to silence, still each street shall
see a
Couple begot of Adam tr\ the dodges
Common to love since the first girl said “Dee-ah,"
And all the spirit-world be as of old
Unnoticed, tempted not by girl or gold.
Life still shall kid us on to our desire
That there shall he new kids for us to nourish;
Life still shall string us on to play with fire,
So that accoucheurs and the Gamps shall flourish;
Life still shall kid us on to buy time-payment
Furniture, and foot the bill for one girl’s raiment.
Life, knowing more than dupe or Governor,
Shall make us in self-pity groan and anguish
For that far distant she (who’s nearer move
Than we suspect) and who for us shall languish;
Life still shall teach the writer in his school
To write romance to fool another fool.
If one could come back in two years (or millions)
To hear the story of the world told then,
"[’would only he the tale we told quintillions
Of times, as told by many a million men:
IVe’d hear suvburban tenors sing “I love you,
Through all the years, by all the stars above you."
qCEKXSI.AMV
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


CRAIGPARK
ARK
M
TRAD
C.M.A. WIRES and CABLES
a**
For all classes of service where reliable
cables are required.
Manufactured in Glasgow (Scotland) by
CRAIGPARK ELECTRIC CABLE CO. LTD.
specially for
fS
usbalian
\ A /
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
Cr. of Queen'fc) Little Collins sts
M ELBOURAJE
ADELAIDE. SJK. —Charles Atkins &c Co. Ltd., 88-90 Cu me St
BRISBANE, Q —The Engineering Supply Co of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C A ), Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts.
NEW ZEALAND —The National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
SIN3DV
TASMANIA —Oliver 6C Oliver. HOBART and LAUNCESTON
PER TH, W.A.—Charles Atkms dC Co. (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House/’
894 Hay Street
AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON


ď
f
Consider
betore you
Consign
your Fat Stock to market. As owner, that s
your right. But if you want to make quite
sure of top values, Bail or Ship your sheep
and cattle to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
successful salesmen, because they work hard
and push hard in clients’ interests.
Homebush Yards,
SYDNEY.
Enoggera Yards
BRISBANE.
&
$
**"TN
Make Your Skin
Like Velvet
DON’T you wish your
face was as smooth
and fair as ypur body? It
would be if protected
from wind and dust. If
you want a clear smooth
skin.
Follow this simple formula —
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
powder over all ”
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Eleaya Face Powder, 4/C-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/0-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Dtil.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CrSmeEicaya
r
d
PARIS
CARTERS
No metal
can touch you
FOR WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A Stein & Co., Chicago.
13
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
y®USjfRMfiLATi
mm
ELEGTROLYTIC ZINC
ďf
BRAND
Containing about 99.93% Metallic Zinc
(.99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
d
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES- Various grades.
SPUE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Svdnev Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings,
IT IS FOUR
CARBURETTERS
BUILT IN ONE.
ď
The Smith British
4-Jet Carburetter
contains Four Jets and Four .separate Choke Tubes. This design makes ft
possible to control the strength of the mixture at any point throughout the
range of action, by varying the sizes of the Jets, and it makes tuning up
a very simple matter.
PETROL CONSUMPTION
REDUCED 25 to 30 PER CENT.
In addition to possessing all the features of the PERFECT CAR-
BURETTER. the Smith British Four-Jet will reduce your Petrol Consump-
tion 25 to 30 per cent. We can quote you many local instances where the
saving lias been even greater than this. t>end for full paiticulais.
Wholesale Only. Ask Your Garage.
S. SMITH & SONS (M.A.) Ltd.
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. 109 Flinders Lane. Melbourne
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE HEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWRKY, Proprietor.
CAC'
-<=Q_<^- c7 li
mi
,== f<
0
• <
I
ft
0
<
_u
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BX\ND
Cv^vC
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City itu
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone
n
>
n
f
I } ’ /
*' ':C
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing' WorKs Pty. Ltd-
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. 1~
Business, Robbery, etc.
“T. 0.1.”: Decentralisation, or, rather, non-
centralisation, seemed so natural a thing in
the early days that the Bathurst Bank was
instituted in January, 1835. Capital was
£10,000; A. K. McKenzie was president,
George Rankin, D. M. Irvin, George Busby
and John Liseoinbe, directors; John Slade,
cashier. The bank issued notes and dis-
counted bills and p.n.’s. The capital was
subsequently increased to £30,000; but, ot
course, it was swallowed by a big city com-
petitor in the end.
* * * *
“Weasel’': One of Darwin's chief imports
from. Hongkong is pak-a-pu tickets. The
gamble does not appeal to Chinese only;
plenty of white folk drop down to "mark a
ticket.” Probably it is illegal, but no one
worries about that. They take these things
in a broad spirit in Darwin. A witness be-
fore the Ewing Commission stated that dur-
ing the influenza scare the authorities sent
word to the Chinese who ran the . fan-tan
shops that they must not allow more than
20 persons in a room at once.
“F.N.T.”: The preparation for keeping
apples, mentioned bv "U.P.” (B. 4/3/20)
as "an invention which may be a big thing
for exporters,” is probably the lime, blue-
stone and sawdust idea, particularly as
“U.P.” indicates that it may also do for
potatoes. Anyhow, try this with the surplus
from the trees in your back-garden: Soak
the apples in double-strength Bordeaux mix-
ture for two hours, let them dry and then
pack in sawdust, with no two fruits touch-
ing. Eight weeks is nothing to the time
Jonathan will be good under this treatment.
But unless the law prescribes de-bluestonmg
the fruit before it is marketed I foresee
plenty of stomach-ache in store for those
who cat the apples.
* * * *
“OX.”: The profit of Ss. suggested by
“G,P.” (B. 4/3/’2O) as the bit probably
made on the “new and shiny” sovs. his
vegetable-John is willing to buy at 225. each
isn’t the only divvy the latter gets. On
their way to China, all being well, the sovs.
go into a chamois bag. Every time their
owner has a few hours to spare he keeps
turning the bag end for end, clashing the
quids interminably together. At the end of
the voyage, all still being well, the sovs. go
into circulation, and there is a profitable
clean-up of the chamois. To do the same
thing in Australia is a gamble. A white
Westralian used to draw a pile of sovs. from
his bank every day or two and sweat them.
After a time these proceedings got him
watched by the police. Then they got him
five years.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: There wasn't
a stream of summer tourists from Australia
to Tasmania 70 years ago, and bookings
across the Straits were few; nevertheless
there is a record before me of a passage
booked for “Mr. and Mrs. -- and luggage,
per Corsair, cabin to Pt. Phillip, Dec. 21,
1841,” and Mr. and Mrs. got the lot
for £l4. That same Corsair had ups and
downs besides those she suffered from the
sea. She was otic of the first Australian
ships, probably the first, expressly equipped
for carrying stock, the idea being to supply
the southern settlements from Sydney; but
she couldn’t work up a trade, so she was put
on the Melbourne-Launceston route, running
twice a month: fares, cabin £6 (“exclusive
of wines”) ; steerage, £3. Next, having two
engines of no less than 751i.p. each, she was
working as a tug in Sydney ; and finally, a
few years later, deciding that these new-
fangled engines were a mistake, after all, she
got herself rigged as a three-masted schooner,
and set sail for Ilongkong.
• * * *
“Padjud” on telegraph worries:—
The speed of the automatic telegraph is roughly
three words a second, which means about 45
separate impressions of current. About half the
second is used up in spacing between letters and
words. Palpably a line has to be in good “live”
condition to carry such fleeting pinpoints of current.
Any “deadness” means that a proportion of the
impulses fail to reach the far end, and this results
in mutilations. Further, line deadness appears to
react on the thing mechanical fingers that govern
the electrical impulses, so that they drag, and there
are more mutilations. But the percentage of errors
is trifling. The real trouble with Australian tele-
graphs is delay. There are not enough lines to
carry the traffic. For instance, yesterday, though
the Melbourne-Sydney auto, worked splendidly all
day, business was four hours in arrears at 6 p.m.
The heads (not the telegraph managers— they know)
appear unable to realise that the volume of telegraph
business increases yearly. As an example, four
years ago two men at either end easily coped with
the business on the duplex lines running to the
repeating centres at Wagga, Cootamundra, Orange,
etc. Now four, and sometimes five, men fail abso-
lutely to hold it. Seven years ago the inter-State
telegrams handled by the auto, occasionally soared
to 7000 in the day. Now the number arerages
10,000. And not one extra line.
TYPICAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Hughes applauds the idea of giving a striking
pre-ent to the Prince of Wales on his birthday, and
expresses the wish that the article chosen will he
typicallv Australia n.
We want some swell Australian thing
That’s typical, so haste to bring
Our charming present to convince
This very excellent young prince.
What shall it be ? A rare and gay
And well-conceived Amurkan play?
Or, smartly-planned and very cute,
Some Yorkshire worsted for a suit ?
Or it might be a china set,
The brightest and most brittle yet,
Inscribed to please the fine young man
With this remark: “Made in Japan.
Or, boldly shaped with swanking rim.
We might with grace present to him.
With speeches eloquent and pat,
An up-to-date Italian hat.
For each of these things ’neath the rule
Of our Protrade Freetection school
Above all else that you may plan
Is typical Australian.
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


. w „™,—-
1 '
m 5
v
SißllSi
ml!
< -
j’j |£ |n'»|||
m v t
w
fc.
■ ■
V M
f m
/ ,i| 1 pH
Ij.
Ililiiliiaiß
|| : ■:
Hill 11
■■
; .
mmm
mm 1 ■,
' - * \-:y, p 7 \ 5,*.,.. "'
H
ffiSgi
• 1
W:
Hi
M
'^l
lings!
nrn k . -
y?\itr J T-
mm
111!
nil
■■
!ii?
1 m\
y„„l
m
# ]|jj
Us IJ
Hi
I
V
III!!!
1 HR.
#>.
w
II II
H
% i
11
f ii
i.
Iflllf , j
r
il l
Er.
1
ill
HI
II
Blliil
IPIPiP'II
111
liiii I
IliS!
■II
11
■
m
WM.
IH
IS
Hi
111111
H
1 ill
aliffllSlill
«
■
1
ii]
1
.< I* ;
v v L
Jah
iil
Oav-
fill
. ’l. .j
mi'Mt
IP ]:
ipyjj
m-*
§®s
itii
Australian Industry
Delivers its Masterpiece
Since the advent of the Motor Car,
tyre trouble has ever been present and
the large proportion of such trouble
has occurred in the wall of the tyre.
Exhaustive tests by the Perdriau
Technical Staff have resulted in the
design of what is known as the
"Reinforced Wall” and in the pro-
duction of this wall, Australian In-
dustry can justly claim leadership
in tyre construction.
This wall consists of extra ply of
stout British Fabric specially treated
with a scientific preparation for the
prevention of perishing.
Severe'and exacting trials have demonstrated
the efficiency of this new wall, which with the old reliable
Perdriau Tread is responsible for remarkable mileages.
Fit Perdriaus for absolute Tyre security
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE
BRISBANE AND
PERTH
The “Reinforced Wall” Gives Added Strength at Vital Spots.


Hose of Luxite
is made in your favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street SYDNEY.
BURNS AIR
df
d
One‘BEST’ Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or Ona
Hundred Candles.
Burns Air Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Wick! No tireaio!
No Smoke! Ns Odor! Hang or Set
It anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
NSP
I THt WORLD'S |pMjj||p| BEST VALUE
tssLa%sb
I
ai'ji
.•>
/;
*v
\
a*
2 4s;
A
£
£
«k
Os:
u
3
f
g m
\
T - £
HrtoHS.' '
toFAHEDWAX
'Vl'.«(jA{V 5 !!ii'-li ?"(S NM
IFUPtfP^
SSSSSKSCE :r:*;S»«S®8«
It Works
Wonders on the
Car, Too
Not only is John-
son's Prepared Wax
a boon to the house-
wife-protecting her
furniture, piano,
gramophone and
woodwork with a
beautiful and enduring dustproof polish—
but it works wonders on the motor car, too.
ďf
produces a hard, dry, glasslike polish of great beauty
and durability on any finished surface. It forms
a thin protecting coat over the varnish, adding years
to its life and beauty. It covers up mars and
scratches —prevents checking sheds water and
makes a wash last twice as long.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil —does not
become sticky in warm or damp weather and im-
parts a surface so hard and dry that dust cannot
adhere to it.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is but one of the John-
son Products which includes Johnson’s Cleaner for
use on motor cars that are greasy, mud freckled
and stained; Johnson’s Carbon Remover for carbon
clogged engines and Johnson’s Radiator Cement for
leaky radiators.
They are obtainable at all good dealers.
S. C. Johnson & Son
Manufacturers 379 Kent Street Sydney, N.S.W.
d
KING OF TABLE WATERS
Sparkling
Contains -Lime JUtiito
Soda. and Magnesia.
TRY IT WITH A SLICE OF LEMON
WIY
LTD
&
5 ; S
USTRAUAN
E.Rowi3@M£
MUMXT.n
Diogenes found his more-or-less honest
man in the IS. M. Herald one day last week:
Most Superior Residence, nearly new, and in perfect
order, 8 large rooms. Land, 50 x 206. Torrent.
Worth £lOOO. A Great Sacrifice at £2450.
Agreeing with Tiie Bulletin view, Itos?
Smith says it is very little use having air-
craft legislation relating to the air space
over each State. Whatever regulation is
decided upon should be. applicable to the
whole Commonwealth. The State Brenners
have listed the subject for discussion at tn*
conference to be held in Hobart in the last
week of April, and there is now a fair pros-
pect that they will agree to ask the Federal
Government to go ahead. For his part,
Hughes says he is willing.
South Aus. is again seeing visions of a
local coal supply. A seam of brown coal
has been discovered three miles north-east of
Moorlands. A shaft 63ft. deep has been
sunk; the coal is proved 25ft. thick, and the
bottom is not yet. reached. Several claims
are pegged out, and more syndicates are
starting to operate. If the coal proves the,
right stuff it is probable that Victoria’s lent*
will be followed and a plant for generating
electricity erected. Moorlands is 86 mile s
east of Adelaide and much handier than the
far-distant Leigh’s Creek.
A tragedy that would be called absurdly
unreal if it got into a novel has occurred at
Lochiel (S.A.). The oldest inhabitant or
thereabouts —he was 75 —was driving home
from Snowtowu alone. At a house he passed
the back of the buggy was noticed to be on
lire, but his attention could not be attracted.
After a slight delay a motor-car was sent
after him. By that time the buggy was in
flames. The horse was with difficulty un-
hitched in time, but the driver was fatally
burnt.
The late Vic. Police-chief Sainsbury's
closest call happened when he captured
McCarron, the leading demon of the cele-
brated Kaarimba case nearly 30 years ago.
On the way home with his prize Sainsbury
dropped into a pub for dinner, and put his
revolver on the table. The temptation was
too great for the handcuffed McCarron, who
made a great effort to get his linger on the
trigger. The captive declared afterwards to
his counsel, the late ,1. L. Purves. that at
the moment when Sainsbury sprang he
thought he had won, and counted on an <?asy
escape in the confusion.
“Superbus” writes about ugliness:—
If I had the chance of ordering myself I would
specify an ugly dial, a large nose, bony legs, teeth
like a horse’s, and a knock-kneed figure. Ugliness
is an asset if you want to attract attention. Brains
may make a man famous, but it is significant that
most famous men have been unhandsome. Billy
Hughes would probably have been unknown bad
lie been a beauty. God was very kind to Billy. lie
is ugly enough to draw a crowd in a desert. Artists
and caricaturists give attention to certain poiitii.il
and theatrical people, not because they have done
anything to deserve it more than others, but
simply because their faces are out of joint and their
figures lopsided. Nor does deformity catch the eye
of the caricaturist more thau it does that of the
public-. It is only necessary for a man with awful
legs and a blemished nose to walk on stage and grin
and a laugh is a certainty. If a handsome man did
the same thing he would get the “bird.” lam sorry
for the goodlookers—they’re fighting an uphill battle
all the time.
Captain Frank Green, assistant clerk of
Tas. Assembly, is compiling an official his-
tory of the 40th Battalion, the Speck’s only
complete regiment. The book will be pub-
lished shortly by the Govt. Printer, and if
the Brass Hats have not censored the
proofs the narrative will not fall dead with
dulness before it gets away from Salisbury
Plain. Indeed, judging by Green’s letters
during the disturbance around Peronne.
the history might even get into a second
edition. But one never knows. A very
small shop in the faded end of Liverpbol-
street. Hobart, exhibits a window-full of
Dr. BuftonVs “Tasmanians in the Trans-
vaal War.” It was published at a guinea,
contains about 600 pages, the name and
photo of about every Tassy who took part
in the harrying of Oom Paul, an accurate
account of the expedition, and is well
printed and solidly bound. All good-as-
new, and now ticketed at 2s. O tempora,
O Mafeking!
Concerning the miner’s health: —
The chief complaint of the Broken ITill miner is
that he gets “leaded,” which so debilitates him that
lie becomes an easy prey to a wide variety of diseases.
A Commission lias begun an inquiry, which covers
all that and even includes hookworm. All the cos.
joined with the A.M.A. months ago in urging the
N. S. Wales Government to appoint a Commission
to inquire into occupational diseases generally. When
the Government appeared to be going slow on the
job the combined cos. made an offer to the men to
pay the expenses of ■an independent preliminary
medical inquiry representative of both sides. This
was accepted by the A.M.A. Meantime the Board of
Trade had got a move on and recommended to the
Government that a Technical Commission should be
appointed to inquire into the whole question of
occupational diseases, not only at Broken Hill, but
at Cobar and Ardlethan and in sewer-mining and
other operations in Hawkesbury sandstone. The
estimated cost of £15,000 scared the Government,
and the Board was asked to frame an inquiry to cost
half as much. The Broken Hill cos. wanted the
question settled definitely by the best science and
skill available, and, although the inquiry was to
embrace other centres, they offered to pay half the
cost, thus making themselves liable for £7500.
This offer was accepted by the Government, and the
A.M.A., under pressure from the Coal and Shah'
Employees’ Federation, eventually agreed to release
the cos. from their undertaking to have an indepen-
dent inquiry, and to take the larger one by the
Board of Trade. On the Commission with Dr. Chap-
man, who is Professor of Pharmacology at Sydney
Uni., are Dr. W. A. Edwards, Roentgenologist; Dr.
W. Sawyer, zoologist , (of the Rockefeller Institute) ;
and Dr. Halero Wardlow, bio-chemist, with Dr. S. A.
Smith as clinician and consultant. The staff includes
a physician, bacteriologist, two chemists, three
chemical assistants and two microscopists, together
with laboratory attendants, X-ray photographers, a
registrar and clerks. In order to facilitate its work,
the cos. have made available to the Commission all
records of their employees, and have given the mem-
bers of the Commission free access to the mines. The
only thing likely to hinder the Commission is the
A.M.A. strike, which prevents it investigating the
actual working conditions - .


Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY
99
“T. R.
Insulation
Beats
Re-Insulation.
“T.R.” stands for “Threaded
Rubber,” of course—the insula-
tion found only in Willard
Batteries with the red trade-
mark. The insulation that lasts
as long as the plates, so that
90 per cent, of those who buy
The Red Trade-Marked Willard
have no re-insulation bills to pay.
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
STORAGE
BATTERY
tur
%
A
O
%
&


YEAR OLD BOY
___»
Started With Watery Blisters On
Face, Guticura Healed.
“My little boy was about two years
old when the eczema began. It started
4U
with watery blisters on
both sides of his face. It
used to make him scratch
his face and the skin was
red and inflamed ail round
it. I used to hate to take
him anywhere.
"I read of a cure by Cuticura and
sent for a sample and kept on using
Cuticura Soap and Ointment. In one
month the trouble had disappeared.”
(Signed) Mrs. M. Maloney, 111 Darley
St., Newtown, Sydney, March 12, *l7.
Why not prevent these distressing
troubles by making Cuticura your
every-day toilet and nursery soap aided
by touches of Ointment as needed?
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
Williams
Talc Ppwdep : |,:
\/ ,1 O' tu fe "TV
'Vi
IV
i>*;•
IV
. u
L. ■■-•* -
Williams’
Talc Powder
violet
NET WT 4 oz
ORSfI
0
TRY Williams’ Vio-
let Talcum Powder.
Learn how fine and
smooth it is how
delicate and pleasing
is the delightful per-
fume—how refresh-
ing it is to your skin.
The patented hinged cover
which opens with press of
thumb makes it easy to use
the powder and retains the
full fragrance of the per-
fume in all its freshness.
Choose also from Williams’
Carnation, English Lilac,
La Tosca Rose, Matinee
(new) and Baby Talc
all equally delightful and
soothing.
THE. GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s beading Hotel.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ď
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
V
>»cl
have always wanted Electric Lights
ou
YOUR home will be brighter and
more cheerful with electric lights—
more comfortable with electric
fans —more convenient with the many
labour saving devices that electric cur-
rent will make available for your use.
F airbanks-Morse
44 F” Electric Light and Power Plant
is a low-speed, horizontal, self-starting,
water-cooled engine unit—simple, eco-
nomical, long-lived—with every part
readily accessible.
It consists of a “Z” kerosene engine, a
ball-bearing dynamo, a switch-board and a
storage battery. The engine may be used
for other work wherever power is needed
on the farm.
IMI
JO-JJ.-!
in
5
See your dealer and learn more
about “F” Electric Light and Power
Plants. Fairbanks-Morse time-proven
quality assures reliability.
DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, Ltd., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MALI.OCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks, Morse (* @
# INCORPORATED I*l MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept., NEW YORK. U. S. A.
London, England. Buenos Aires, Argentina
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/* Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens—Obtainable Everywhere
MARK
The Bull Dog Grip
PA
7%.
m
'/A
=.3 ,
25
i
* yJ
(l\Wb
\W
Climatic conditions do not affect Yale Stand-
ard Padlocks. They will not rust or corrode
under any circumstances
,- Yale,” the trade-mark is plainly stamped
upon Yale Padlocks, Night Latches, Builders’
Locks and Hardware Door Closers, Bank
Locks and Chain Blocks. The trade-mark is
your guarantee of safety and origin.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
Established 1868
New York
U. S. A.
The bull dog never
loosens his grip until bid-
den to do so by his master.
The world famous Yale
Padlocks, once locked,
never loosen their grip
until released by their in-
dividual keys. Their
tough, bronze construc-
tion will resist sledge-
hammer blows.
Yale Padlocks are in universal
use wherever security is needed.
The knowledge that no one has
ever successfully picked a Yale
Standard Padlock while in actual
use has increased their universal
use for all purposes where secur-
ity is paramount.
f
d
®LE) triplex blocks
ďf
Special features: —
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50',c overload(336olb.).
4 Can be tilted to any length of lift.
5 Sjiare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
354 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street. Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Taranaki (M.L.) farmers’ meatworka
have dressed a giant ram which turned the
steelyards at 1461 b. It was the biggest sheep
killed at the works and is claimed as a
record also for the Dominion.
“047”: Westralia’s new Governor, fresh
from the- cocked-hat job in Tassy, is, or was,
the possessor of a rare book —in fact, his is
the only known copy. This is “Pandosto,
The Triumph of Time,” by Robert Greene,
the sixteenth-century poet. Shakspeare bor-
rowed the plot of the romance from the first
edition (15S8) for “The Winter’s Tale.”
Con Wallace has got his reward. Having-
abandoned his sure Federal seat at W est
Sydney to make room for Ryan, and being
thus left with nothing payable to sit down
on, Ryan’s old State colleagues have ap-
pointed him Shipping Master at Brisbane
over the heads of infuriated local applicants.
This is not corruption, of course. It is
party politics.
“Gleniris”: While he is waiting for the
Government to "take up seriously the busi-
ness of beet-sugar making,” so that there
may be sweetening for the missus’s home-
made jam, “8.P.” (B. 26/2/’2O) might
start growing a few cwt. of sugar-beets
in his own back yard. Boiled down, 1001 b.
of beet will make many pounds of jam-
syrup—practically as good as crystallised
sugar and a long way better than no sugar
at all.
After remaining in the hands of the Clhirn-
side family for S 3 years, ever since the
original Chirnsidc pioneer picked it out in
1837, the Point Cook estate, which nowa-
days butts up against the Flying School
area, has been sold to Captain Sydney Dal-
rymple. Though the land is within 15 miles
of Melbourne and slap up against Laver-
ton railway station, 2000 out of its 3000
acres of flat land have never had a plough
in them.
Northern Territory Missioner James
Watson, to the Adelaide Methodist Con-
ference:—
The Chinese were the wealthiest people in Darwin,
and were educated business men. lie thought there
should be a modification of the White-Australia
policy, which would permit the teeming millions
near at hand to enter under certain restrictions.
There were many men with colored skins who
were fine fellows.
And it is precisely because men like Watson
say such things about them that they must
be kept out. It makes the possibility of a
half-caste breed a certainty.
Hume Cook, chairman of the Vic.
Orcliardists’ Co-op. Association, is pushing
a newish idea, for the mutual benefit of pro-
ducer and public. It is to have fruit-sales
depots at the main Melbourne railway ter-
minals, for the direct supply of the grower’s
crops to the consumer. Since the Govern-
ment has helped to place many citizens- on
orchard lands, Cook reckons that the pro-
posed move should be seriously considered
by an Administration recognising its respon-
sibilities. The Railways Department has
no City Council regulations to ponder. All
it has to do is to find the space at the right
price and let the growers’ reps, do the rest»
“R.S.V.P.”: How is it that one never
hears nowadays of prosecutions for “adul-
terating” firewood? Some Melbourne fuel-
merchants make a hobby of mixing up
“common” wood with their expensive split
box. During the interference with trans-
port caused by the marine engineers’ strike, box
blocks ran short, and inspection would have
disclosed that much wood of poor heating value
was sold as box at a big advance on its
proper price. Not one housewife in 100
can tell the difference between box and other
burning woods; but let the fuel-man be ten-
dered a bad half-crown in payment for his
mixture and he will soon let the housewife
know what he thinks of the deal.
“Widgee”: They’re all doing it. The
coming winter promises to be a busy one
among rabbit-trappers, owing to the con-
tinued high prices of skins. At the close of
last season second-hand traps could be bought
at 2s. 6d., though ss. was the normal price
for new ones. To-day hardly a trap is on
the market. It isn’t that the big houses
haven’t got them. They are just waiting for
the winter demand to set in and lift the sell-
ing value of their hoarded stocks. Probably
10s. will be the price by June, providing
the demand for skins continues anywhere
near present rates. Strychnine is dear,
too; but-there will be far. more rabbits
poisoned than trapped next winter.
“W’gabba’s” plea for a new industry
Australia imperatively needs potash for her agri-
culture, and the need will increase rather than
diminish. Germany with her Stassfurt beds held
a world monopoly prior to the war, for the Alsace
beds were not developed, and the Ilun held them,
too. Now, of course, we can get potash from
France, but we must pay a mighty stiff price, for
shipping freights alone are staggering. However,
there is no need to face the foreigner’s bill, for we
can produce sufficient potash ourselves. This is
the position. The United States has immense Port-
land cement works, and in the clay shales which
she uses for producing cement the infinitesimal per-
centage of potash (K2O) makes a large tonnage
bj'-product of high commercial value in the run of
a year. The following is the latest information as
to the establishment of potash-recovery plants at
cement works since 1914: U.S. America, 15; Japan,
one; Spain, one: Sweden, one; Norway, one; Aus-
tralia, none. In N. S. Wales alone there are three
large cement works at Portland, Kandos and Gran-
ville, and the production for 1918 was 143,250 tons.
In 1908 the production was 08,333 tons. The
duplication of the annual output in 10 years gives
an idea of the probable future expansion of the
industry. For the 1918 output nearly 60,000 tons
of clay-shale were mined, and, according to Pitt-
man’s “Mineral Resources of N. S.- Wales,” these
contain from 0.50 p.c. up to 2 p.c. potash. Averag-
ing the. material at 1 p.c. K2O, and disregarding
the smaller percentages in limestone used, which con-
stitutes over 70 p.c. of the original materials before
losses by calcining, the N. S. Wales cement plants
are throwing away sufficient potash to yield 1200
tons of soluble potassium carbonate at a present
price of £lOO. Of course, this policy of pitching
£120,000 a year into the gutter is not new in
Australia, but the loss will be growing nearer
millions sterling, taking the figures for the whole
of Australia, in a few years, and meantime the
agriculturist on the land is insistently jelling for
cheap potash fertilizers. It’s outrageous waste.


11
*=7
If
X
V
«. I
N
m
PABCO
PRODUCTS
n
MALTHOID
READY ROOFING
Ten years from now
You can judge the quality of ready
roofing only after it has been tested in
actual use. When you buy it, you must
rely for your selection upon the experi-
ence of others and the reputation of the
manufacturer.
The ideal of The Paraffine Companies
is to make Malthoid the best ready roof-
ing that can be made. The Company has
succeeded, as has been proved thousands
of times under widely varying conditions
of climate and use.
If you roof your farm buildings or
home or factory with Malthoid, in ten
years from now you will know why it has
become the recognized standard of ready
roofing. Malthoid is made to last. It will
not dry out or rot and it is particularly
fire-resistant. If painted every two or three
years, it will give good service indefinitely.
Malthoid has met successfully every test
of time and service to which it has been
subjected.
The reputation of The Paraffine Companies
stands back of Malthoid. It is the best ready
roofing that we know how to make.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES, Inc.
(F. M. Prince. Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
Koofings.
Felts.
Building Papers.
Waterproofing
Materials.
Wall-Board.
Floor Covering.
Industrial Paints
Pabco Metal
Paints,
etc.
The standard of its kind and “NOT the same as others.
QVER four hundred
= miles of Malthoid were
purchased by the Govern-
ment in Australia during
the war.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Watch, 20/-, 25/-,
50/-, 40/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-. Gold,
£5/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £O. Black, Brown or
Grey Strap. Guaranteed.
S 3
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Lever,
£5, £5/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-.
Extra-jewelled, £O/10/-, £7/10/-. Gold-
tilled, Waltham or Elgin, 10-year ease,
£5/10/-; 20-year, £5/10/-; 25-ycar,
£O/10/-. Extra-jewelled, £7/10/-.
Solid Gold, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O, £5O.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS,
WATCH SPECIALIST.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever Movement Compensation Balance,
£B/10/-. Others, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £tO, £l2/10/-, £l5. Guaranteed.
w«»'JWWfr/i
VOS
/?
& V
i 1
A. Saunders' Silver Hunting' Keyless Fly-back Chronograph,
guaranteed reliable, £B/10/-; Extra Jewelled, £lO, £l2/10/-
Gold Hunting, Extra Jewelled, £2O, £25, £5O.
A. Saunders’ Ont.'s Silver Open-face Lever
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled, £3 ? £3/ 10/-,
Gold-tilled, Waltham or Elgin, £3/10/
£4/10/-. Oct. Gold, £5, £5/10/-’,
£6/10/-. Guaranteed.
/
A. Saunders’ Gcnt.’s high-grade Nickel Lever,
25/-, 30/-
Extra Jewelled, 35/-, 40/-. r ‘“ l
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£B/10/. E xtra-jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
Guaranteed.
Send for Our Latest Illustrated Price List.
We Post All Orders Free.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
■*s oSaooo 819*908
(Opp. Railway
Station),
Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever Movement, Compensation Balance,
£lO. loot. Gold, £l5. Extra Jewelled, £l7/10/-.
Guaranteed,
s
y
f
Be a Better Cook!
If you are still cooking in the old fashioned
way give it up !—be a Better Cook from to-
day onwards. Cook better scones and better
cakes, tastier trifles and more delicious
blanc-manges. It’s so simple !
Instead of using dairy milk, cook with
Nestle’s Milk ; you will be delightfully sur-
prised at the results and so will Hubby and
the children.
The “ Milky Way ” Book Teaches You Free !
Write to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street, Sydney, for
Free Copy of Valuable Book containing over 100
recipes for Better Cooking with
NESTLE’S
Condensed
MILK
(Made in Australia)
1 condensed
MILK !
N*ST 6BANO
made in austral'*
SWISS COKMJSss
Melbourne, D -
°e, Perth,
A f>t
La
hoc*
N!88


AltillHPllM'tll*-
Harry Rickurds Tivoli Theatre* Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MclMOsH.
-|» ivOLI THEATRE, SIDS EY.
last tw o nights of buzz buzz.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 27.
For the first time in Sydney.
A DELIGHTFUL NEW REVUE.
TAILS UP.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“piv
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
TIIE FANTASTIC MUSICAL COMEDY,
AS YOU WERE.
Prices as usual.
T“
EAT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
GRAND OPERA.
The J. C. WILLIAMSON GRAND OPERA COMPANY
Will Open its Easter Season in Sydney on
WEDNESDAY NIGHT, MARCH 24,
with
TALES OF HOFFMANN
(First presentation in Sydney by present company).
Hrc It ,\l A.IKST v ' S. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE REVUE OF A THOUSAND AND ONE
DELIGHTS,
THE PASSING SHOAV OF 1020.
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast,
plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
p A I. A C E
THEAT It E, SYDNEY.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
EM 1C LIE POLINI
and All-Star Cast in
KINDLING.
A DRAMA OE TENSE INTEREST.
Box Plans Nicholson’s.
JM() N i» ICTU It 15 TIIIS A T RES
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
LACIAIt ID M, J 1 I! IBOU It N K
G
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
MISS HUTCHISON'S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets S/6
Reserved Table 2/6 extra.
Situations Vactat.
Queensland Forest Service.
APPLICATIONS are invited from candidates for
the following positions in the Queensland Forest
Service.
Applications should be lodged with the under-
signed on or before 15th April, 1920.
Two Deputy Foresters at £270 per annum (wi‘h
range to £360) and £3O camp allowance, all
equipment provided and maintained by the Forest
Service. Duties: The carrying out of boundary,
classification, valuation and organisation surveys
upon Crown forests. Candidates are expected to
develop a general • knowledge of forest practice, and
will be eligible for appointment to the higher grades
of the Forest Service., Qualifications necessary: A
practical and theoretical knowledge of surveying
and a bent for and capacity to learn the theory
and practice of Sylviculture.
Three Cadet Foresters at £7O, with regular
increments. At 21 years of age appointees will be
paid £175 per annum. Camp allowance paid to
make salary equal to £lOO per annum during first
two years. Duties: General training for appoint-
ment ultimately as a forest officer. The course of
training begins with attachment to forest survey
camps and nurseries, etc., and will be followed by
a course in forestry at the School of Forestry.
Qualifications: General education to matriculation
standard, with physical and temperamental fitness
for forest work. Candidates should be between 16
and 19 years of age.
Three Forest Guards at £lBO per annum, with
range to £230 —equipment supplied and maintained
by the Forest Service. Duties: Log measuring and
supervision of bush operations, including timber
estimating and marketing, and the making of re-
ports and calculations.
Forest Engineer.
Applications are invited from candidates for the
position of Forest Engineer, Queensland Forest Ser-
vice.
Duties are the planning and supervision of general
forest engineering and logging works in connection
with the harvesting and marketing of timber from
the State Forests. The appointee may be required
to spend part of his time in instructing students at
the School of Forestry in forest engineering subjects.
Qualifications: Candidates should be graduates in
engineering of a recognised University or have
equivalent qualifications. They must be under 35
years of age.
Salary £4OO per annum minimum and travelling
expenses, but during the first year the appointee
must be prepared to undertake a special course in
forestrv and forest engineering at the University of
Washington, Seattle. U.S.A.. during which time
the remuneration wHI be £250 per annum, plus
actual expenses, in"l-ding first-class passage to and
from Seattle and Brisbane. A bond must be entered
into for the repayment of the costs of the special
course should the annlicant not remain in the Forest
Service for seven veins.
E. H. F. SWATN, Director of Forests,
Executive Buildings, Brisbane.
Public Notice.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRA-
LIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
We beg to intimate that we are Candidates
for re-election as Directors on your principal
Board.
We appreciate the confidence you have re-
posed in us in the past, and respectfully
request a renewal of same on the present
occasion.
Yours faithfully,
R. J. BLACK,
ALEXANDER MacCORMICK.
Amusement*.
H
I,'ll MAJESTY'S tUK at kb. sikmiou knb.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
’ll |. ,\ -r It IS KOV A 1„ MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present London’s Most
Successful Comedy,
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
King’s tiikatkk.
Lessees: BAILEY
M 10 I. It O ti It N 10.
& GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 27.
J & N. TAIT present the great Belasco play,
TIGER ROSE.
The Greatest Drama of a decade.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
OYT’S TH EAT KIOIS MlO Llto UK NIO
Also SYDNEY.
DIO LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge!.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM RUSSELL in
SACRED SILENCE.
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS in
STRUCK OIL.
Prices as usual.
Amusement*.
yy HALL, MELBOURNE.
* EVERY EVENING AT 8.
T and N TAIT PRESENT THE RENOWNED
* BIG-GAME HUNTER,
HARRY IvAIGH EUSTACE in
MOVING PICTURES OF THE
AFRICAN JUNGLE.
Matinee every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.40.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allen s. _
ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
mwm P* WAKES CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY
SSmxfc THE s.lver d k.|o, the midnight
Napier, March 25 & 26; Waipawa, March 27 ; Mas-
terton, March 29 & 30 ; Christchurch, April 3 to 24.
|y|A,JESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ANITA STEWART
in
KINGDOM OF DREAMS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at t
M
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
<?howin» the nick of the world’s films, including
he productions O P f CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATEIE,
VO 11 T.D and SET.7NICK.
g KIT AN NIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
ROSS’ Celebrated
Racing and Field Glasses
are again procurable at the leading jewellers in each
large city throughout the Commonwealth. For years
past the British Government took the entire output
of the great Ross factories for Army and Navy uses.
“RosS” Binoculars proved in extensive tests against
all other makes of glasses to be the BEST, and so
were adopted for the British Army and Navy
authorities.
They are retailed throughout Australia at Ross’
Catalogue English prices plus only duty and importing
expenses.
FAIRFAX g ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES —CASH ONLY.
mi
Australian Agents for Ross Ltd.,
23 S 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
d
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting); starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4,5, 6£ and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET, PETRIE’S BIGHT, BRISBANE.
(Trams pass near by.) Works— Yeerongpilly. W
Wm §!! ’"r, I
Shaving: with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no nevy invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
JO/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 eacln
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 10/6,
The “Army and Navy” Razor has Our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG § AITKEN,
654 Georgs Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
!
Legal Notice.
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
HELD AT BRISBANE.
The Minister of State for Home and
Territories, applicant; John Griffiths,
respondent.
To John Griffiths.
TAKE NOTICE that an application by
the Minister of State for Home and Terri-
tories pursuant to Section 89 of the Lands
Acquisition Act 1906-1916 to determine the
amount of compensation payable in respect
of the compulsory acquisition by the Com-
monwealth of Australia of Resubdivisions
133 to 140 (both inclusive) 144 and 145
of Subdivision 3 of Portion 374 Parish of
Enoggera County of Stanley State of
Queensland of which land you were at the
time of the said acquisition the registered
proprietor will be heard at the District
Court at Brisbane in the State of Queens-
land on Monday the seventeenth day of
May 1920 at ten of the clock in the fore-
noon.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of Febru-
ary 1920.
W. H. CARVISSO,
Registrar.
Chambers McNab and McNab, Solicitors.
30 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Agents for Gordon Harwood Castle,
Commonwealth Crown Solicitor,
Melbourne.
TV THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND,
X TARANAKI DISTRICT.
CRAIG v. CRAIG.
Abstract of Citation.
TO JAMES CRAIG formerly of Wellington in the
Dominion of New Zealand Clerk but now believed
to be in Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at New
Plymouth citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of JANE CRAIG of Hawera in the said
Dominion of New Zealand wherein she prays for a
dissolution of her marriage with you on the ground
of desertion and such citation intimates that in
default of your so doing the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence. NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are on or before the thirtieth day of April
1920 to attend in person or by your Solicitor at the
Supreme Court office at New Plymouth and there
enter an appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceeding. . ,
A copy of the said citation and petition will he
supplied you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court office at New' Plymouth.
Dated this Ist day of March 1920.
(The Seal of the Supreme JAMES JORDAN,
Court New Zealand.) Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment. Patrick O’Dea of Hawera is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner whose address for service is at the
office of Messieurs Govett Quilliam & Hutchen,
Solicitors, Deven Street. New Plymouth.
O’DEA, HASELDEN & BAYLEY,
Solicitors, Hawera.
qOUTII AUSTRALIA.—IN THE SUPREME COURT.
C 5 —Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction, No. 37 ot
1920.—Between ELI ERNEST TOIIL Petitioner and
ALICE AMELIA TOIIL Respondent, and EDWARD
JAMES McAULIFFE or MACAWLEY Co-respon-
dent.—To ALICE AMELIA TOHL of Goulburn in
the State of New South Wales and to EDWARD
JAMES McAULIFFE or MACAWLEY of. Goulburn
aforesaid Wheat Lumper. —TAKE NOTICE that cita-
tions have been issued out of this Court respectively
citing- you TO APPEAR and answer the petition
of ELI *ERNEST TOHL of Prospect in the State of
South Australia out of business praying for a dis-
solution of marriage. IN DEFAULT of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid within 30 days after the last
publication of this notice an appearance must be
entered at the office of our Supreme Court Victoria
Square Adelaide in the said State in accordance with
the Rules in that behalf. „
W L. STUART, Master. BAKER, GLVNN, PAR
SONS and CO., Morialta Chambers, Victoria Square,
Adelaide, Proctors for the Petitioner.
To be inserted once in the Adelaide Advertised
newspaper and twice in each of the following news-
papers: The Sydney Morning Herald, Sydney
Daily Telegraph, The Bulletin and one other
weekly paper published in Sydney.
OOUTII AUSTRALIA.—IN THE SUPREME COURT.
vJ —Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction, No. 5 ot
mo.— I To CLARENCE CATCIIILL of South Gap
Station near Port Augusta in the State of South
Australia Station Hand and to HARRY BENNET'I
of South Gap Station near Port Augusta in the
State of South Australia Station Hand. TAKE
NOTICE tljat Citations respectively bearing date
the 7th day of January 1920 have been issued out
of the Supreme Court of South Australia respectively
citing! you to appear and answer th 6 petition ol
KENDALL KENDALL formerly of South Gap Station
near Port Augusta in the State of South Australia
but now of Oakden Hills Station near Port Augusta
in the said State Station Hand praying for a dis-
solution of his marriage with his wife TOTTIE
KENDALL on the ground of her having committed
adultery with you and each of you. In default of
your so appearing the Court will proceed to hear
and determine the said charge in due course of law
and to pronounce sentence therein your absence not-
withstanding. THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
from the date of the last insertion of this advertise-
ment to attend in person or by your Proctor Solici-
tor or Attorney at the office of our said Court Vic-
toria Square Adelaide and there to enter an appear-
ance in accordance with the Rules in that behalf
without which you will not be allowed to address
the Court in person or by Counsel at any stage o 1
the proceedings in the Cause.
DONIALD KERR, Pirie Street, Adelaide, Proctor
for the Petitioner. W. L. STUART, Master.
To be inserted twice in each of the following
newspapers: The Sydney Bulletin, the South Aus-
tralian Advertiser and one daily newspaper pub-
lished in Brisbane in the State of Queensland, a
fortnight to intervene between the first and last
insertions.
Public Notice.
The Tongkah Harbour Tin
Dredging Co. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
OTTCE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend (the
-■> 36th) of 10 per cent., or two shillings per
mare, arnou. tin- to £15,000, has been declared
jayable on the 2nd April, 1920, and tor this pui-
rose the Share Regrister closes from the 15th to
he 22nd of April inclusive. i
By order of the Board,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Dated at Hobart, this 13th day of March, 1920.
N
Missing Friends.
LBERT WILLIAM MORGAN, late of Coonamble.
L Drover. Anyone knowing his address kindly
mmunmate with Juanita Morgan, TooloOn Street,
onamble ; or F. S. Hegarty, Solicitor, Coonamble,
S.W. Information rewarded.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUBTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. ’
&
rOORD &> SON
V* LONDON. ENGLAND V
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Swift 8t Company Ltd.. Australian Acents, 26 '3O Clarence St., Sydney
%
DT
■
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
4s
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than, the shillings you are
asked to pay. It is genuinely
welted—all “EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-dav.
47/6 PAIR.
“EMBASSY* ’ Shoes are
the Standard.
PIKE
Townsville.
BROTHERS
UMITES,
Brisbane. Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Passing Show of 1920’’
Royal Grand opera
Palace “Kindling’’
Tiyoli .. “Tails Up’’
Hoyt's .Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kissing Time’’
Royal “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
King’s “Tiger Rose”
Tivoli “As You Were”
Hoyt’s Du Lute & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Athen.eum Moving Pictures
Ulaciakium Dancing
♦
The plot of the new comedy at Melbourne
Royal is a reminder of the simple tale that
served Tom Robertson for “Caste,” hut the
character types are more numerous and up-
to-date (in most cases) than in the
earlier and cruder work, and conven-
tional “fun” is sometimes introduced
without regard to the dramatic unities.
For instance, au incredibly absurd
curate in the first act is but a passing
interloper; and the whole incident of the
Welwyn family-tableau rehearsal, in the
second act, js irrelevant to the subsequent
action of the flustered family when their
high-toned Maiuwaring guests arrive on the
scene.
* * * *
lan Hay, the author of “Tilly of Blooms-
bury,” seems to satirise the Englishness
of his comedy by choosing two names which
are not spoken as spelt. The “Manaring”
crowd comprises a hearty, subjective hus-
band ; a titled, conventionally-aristoeratic
wife; a beauteously cold, young cat of a
daughter, who poses as an advanced thinker,
hut is in manners if not in morals as repel-
lent as Ethel in “Peg o’ My Heart”; and
an incredibly blithe and guileless young son
who loves at first sight the first sweet little
thing he ever met on top of a ’bus. A
visitor to the Maiuwaring abode is Con
stance Darner, pal of son Richard, who
angelically befriends Tilly of the ’bus-top
when Richard brings her to his scandalised
home. The palship of Connie and Dick is
ideal, like the harmony that reigns in the
home of Tilly. When the wealthy relatives
of Dick visit the enemy’s camp with a view
to preventing the boy’s marriage, they And
that father “Welyn” is an irresponsible,
gentlemanly, non-teetotal scholar with a
tooted distaste for work; that mother is an
unpolished pearl of inestimable domestic
value; that Tilly’s younger sister is as sweet
as herself, and. therefore, both of them are
quite undeserving of their affable bounding
brother; that Mrs. Welwyn’s aged mother
is an additional “impossibility,” and that
the lodgers chase one another with murder-
ous intentions. Also Tilly informs them,
when her pardonable pretence of gentility
is exhausted, that the low-comedy scarecrow
who masqueraded as a man-servant was
really a sheriff’s officer in disguise, but for
which startling information the visitors
might have suspected the man of having
blown in from a lunatic asylum. The play
leaves the young couple in a state of
“Tilly of Blooms-
bury,” at
Melbourne Royal.
George Blunt as
Mr. Stillbottle,
the sheriff's officer.
mut u al embrace,
and the subse-
quent tactics of
Richard’s parents
is left to one’s
imaginatio n.
Nevertheless it is a
sufficiently enter-
taining last act, in
spite of its series of
conventional situa-
tions, and a super-
fluity of monologue
b y the sheriff’s
officer.
(ieoige Blunt, a
new-comer from
England, plays the
absurd bailiff with
m u c h unctuous
h u m o r. Ii e
has a wheez y
cough, an effective
pair of rolling eyes
and a smile which
lie uses with dis-
cretion. With less
working time on
the stage he would
make a deeper im-
pression. The boy
(Frank Freeman)
and the girl (Dor-
othy Manville)
equally justify their importation. This is
a play of types, and they are true to theirs
—idealised types, of course. Freeman is an
English version of Louis Kimball, with a
much wider range of histrionics than the
American young man. It is hard for any
actor to seem as unaffectedly good as Dick
is supposed to be, but the newcomer gets
there in a quiet style. Miss Manville. with
a similar handicap, is also a winner, although
her limit in emotional power is reached
when she and ’Melia (Dorothy Seacombe)
weep together on the family couch. This
Dorothy, not long escaped from infant-
phenomenon parts, is a valuable asset to
the company. She looks pretty and acts
pretty as the sweet young flapper, and her
agility goes straight to the point. Pirie
Bush gives a not uhlikeable exaggeration
of bounder brother Percy, and Beryl Bryant
is a quite convincing representative of the
haughty maiden who mostly sits and broods
on her hereditary superiority to everybody
around her, whilst trying to think of her-
self as an edition de luxe of Christabel
Pankhurst. But it seems a pity for beauty
to be wasted on a repellent character.
* * * *
Of the four parents Emma Temple is
forcible and humorous as Mrs. Welwyn.
Percy Rhodes, imported, brings a fine voice
and scholastic elocution, as well as a righl
sort of personality, to bear on the part of
the sententious rotter who lolls on the family
pedestal. Styan is the likeable Mainwar-
ing, ready to be a genial old dawg if he
gets the chance; and Mrs. Brough, who
received a warm welcome on Saturday night,
seemed too restless and emphatic for Lady
M. Connie Metters supplies a winsome
sketch of a sporty pal in petticoats, and
Frank Hawthc/ne contributes colored
photos of a farcical curate and a melodra-
matic Indian law-student. Scenic-ar'tist
Upward is presumably guiltless of the well-
conditioned carpet which glows in the
Welwyn drawing-room, instead of a worn-
out fabric which the sheriff’s officer values
at 14s. Gd. Within the next three month?
or so the management should be able to pick
up a more suitable carpet, three months
being a reasonable estimate of the length
of “Tilly of Bloomsbury’s” run.
"Tilly of Blooms-
bury,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Percy Rhodes as
Lucius Welwyn,
Tilly's father.
Though the attend-
ance looked thin at
the B airy Lupino
“send-off matinee” at
Melbourne King’s.
Barry, who was too ill
to be present, will pro-
bably be handed about
£250. Boxes had been
sold for such prices as
£2O; many tickets
were bought apart
from those that were
used; and .Tack Can-
not and others indus-
triously vended signed
photographs, besides
doing their bit on the
boards. The organis-
ing was in the hands
o f smiling Wa 11 e r
Baker, who is almost
forgetting what it was
like to he a Bland
Holt hero.
Arthur 8 tree ton’s
Arthur Streeton’s war
pictures at the Vic.
Artists’ Galleries, East
Melbourne, have more
topographical than human
interest; nevertheless the
sound color and masterly
craftsmanship give every
one of them a definite
artistic value. Streeton
did most of his work
around Amiens, and he has several arresting
studies of that battleground in which the great
cathedral is conspicuous. The largest canvas,
Amiens, Ivey of the West,” affords a fine view of
the Somme Valley down which the Huns threatened
civilisation in April, 1918, and the artist also pic-
tures the formidableness of Villers-Bret., where the
Diggers Shattered the delusion of World-Empire.
Mont St. Quentin mentions its military advantages
in another large canvas, and the Bullecourt end of
the St. Quentin Tunnel, showing a semi-circle of
darkness over deep green water, is framed for
inspection. Streeton’s eye is voracious for details,
as you can see in the crowded study of Peronne, with
tie lines of trains stacked with artillery. Of
actual battle he has nothing more intimate than
“Eero” and “The Eighth of August Advance,” but
ho gets the thrill in the former with the distant
flashes of the creeping barrage. Some riight scenes,
presenting the skeletons of bashed houses against
blue-black skies, are more suggestive of desolation
than the daylit glimpse of a battered pulpit or an
amputated stairway waving its stump in mid-air.
Many of the latter sketches are hasty flickers in
water-color probably memoranda for bigger en-
deavors—but they all glitter with that wristy, virile
brushwork which is such a feature of Streeton’s ait.
Pictorially he is most impressive in “Blue Depths,”
an eagle’s-eye view of Mt. Buffalo scenery. Further-
more, he includes the spacious and exhilarating
“Australia Felix,” which won a Paris Salon Gold
Medal in 1909. Incidentally, he finds room for his
early and crude “Golden Summer,” which was painted
in 1889 and looks now like the evidence of a mis-
spent youth.
“Kissing Time,” formerly of Melbourne
lioyal, is passing its eighth week at Her
Majesty's, and the balmiest airs of that
popular entertainment come merrily whist-
ling down the street with the butcher’s cart.
An improvement in the appearance of Bert
Clark’s coat is remarked by constant visitors
to “As You Were” at Melbourne Tivoli.
Also the new Sir Walter has improved on
his earliest attempts to make a noise like
Claude Flemming, and Vera Pearce con-
tinues to imitate a French accent most of
the time on the ground that the London per-
former of her parts was unavoidably French
all the time.
‘‘Tiger Rose” show will open at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday, the panto having gone
elsewhere this week.
** * *
On the screen at Melbourne Athenaeum
Hall lecturer Harry K. Eustace continues to
be knocked down and out by the ostrich :
but the largest wild animals on earth
threaten him in vain, and he drags the
python back by the tail to meet the
camera. Moreover, in a silent pool
The hunter dares to swim, Where hippos,
share his pastime cool And crocos. weep for
him. Each crocodile that sheds a tear His
bones would love to crunch ; And in the big
white rhino’s ear The tick-bird looks for
lunch. P.S.—This is poetry.
* si: * si:
A new Repertory venture makes a modest
beginning at Melbourne Guildhall to-night,
when Shaw’s “Overruled,” Barrie’s “Twelve-
Pound Look” and Wilde’s “Florentine
Tragedy” will be presented by an amateur
co. under the direction of Arthur Goodsall.
As the price of admission is only 2s. (with-
out tax), there ought to be a good roll-up of
citizens who profess a fearful hunger for
“literary” drama.
* si: * *
Maggie Moore and H. R. Roberts are hold-
ing Iloyt’s Melbourne screen for a week in
their own movie version of “Struck Oil.”
Maggie is an enlargement of the Lizzie of
the past, but she doesn’t damage the pathos
of the narrative, which is often kept very
close to tears by the line work of Harry
Roberts. Harry’s Stofel is artistic all
through, and he deserves a special mention
for his eloquent doddering pantomime when
he returns from the war. On the same pro-
gramme William Russell finds that in erotic
disturbances every meddle makes a muddle.
llow he is tangled up in another man’s pas-
sion is told with some suggestive black-outs
in “Sacred Silence.” At the Melba Louise
Glaum has been appointed “The Goddess of
Lost Lake,” hut is hereby disqualified for
lacking the requisite divinity. At the Britan-
nia Clara Kimball Young is exposing the
Hun espionage system in “The Road Through
the Dark.” “Camera-ing Through Africa”
is trailing behind with the latest zoological
news.
* «: II : :I:
A one-woman show in Melbourne:—
Miss Cumbrae Stewart’s standing as a pastellist is
not improved by her exhibition at the Athenaeum.
She has mobilised a large quantity of lolly-limbed
maidens and provided peeps at their contours with
the presumable intention of furthering masculine
illusions regarding the beauty of her sex. In that,
no doubt, she succeeds very well; but this sort of
art is too near the American magazine-cover for
Miss Stewart to achieve a reputation from it. Some
of the nudes have the loveliest figures, but the
artist was so keen to prove their right to undress
that she hardly troubled to draw into their faces
any consciousness of a spirit. She can do better
than this, and when she employs the pastel in por-
traiture she establishes the sitter’s personality. Her
portraits of Mrs. Rupert Atkinson, “The Lady in
Black,” “The Lady in Pink” and “The V.A.D.” are
all handled sincerely, and with a precision and
grace that emphasise her manual dexterity.
** * *
After last Saturday's experience at Sydney
Agricultural Showground the police will
probably apply some sort of acid test to
“Wild West” shows that strive to collect
the money of the tame city. The advertising
drew a big crowd at good prices; but there
was such short measure of genuine enter-
tainment that the patrons were soon a lot
wilder than the show, and when some sort
of false-alarm -Indian knocked down a boy
who with others had come into the arena
by invitation to ride a donkey, the crowd
got d—d wild and the show went west alto-
gether. Thousands boiled over' the fence,
and the police had a strenuous time rescu-
ing hasty old Rain-in-His-Face. Then the
crowd let loose some yarded cattle. Wild
bullocks. would probably have provided a
long casualty list; the “Wild West” cattle
sent only one man to hospital with a slightly-
wounded back.
The managerial advt. of “The Passing
Show of 1020” placards its time-table as
if the big show were an express ripping
through the night with a wmwser hanging on
to the buffer of the luggage-van. Passengers
for the round trip assemble each evening at
Sydney Majesty’s.
“Kindling” gets along with a minimum
of fresh air at Sydney Palace, and Miss
Polini's dresses (bv Dustbox. Ltd.) make
fashion experts shudder. A nice girl crying
in pretty clo.thes drives the chivalrous male
world to exclaim “What a damned shame'”
Put the same sniffling girl in Maryann dud's
and the same world is pretty certain to ask
what the fuss is all about.
“Buz Buzz” will buzz off at Svdney
Tivoli on Friday night. “Tails Up” is due
on Saturday; and Winifred O’Connor, back
home from London, will begin work in it.
The J.C.W. Grand Opera Co. made a
start on Wednesday night with “Tales of
Hoffmann,” and that part of Svdney which
loves its music heavy, and the probablv
larger part which pretends to, are now
streaming to the Royal. To-night (Thurs-
day) the singers will earn their money with
“II Trovatore.” Friday is marked off for
‘Cavallena and “Pagliaeci.” Saturday's
matinee is Hoffmann” again. In the even-
“Kindling,” at Sydney
Palace.
Mr. Howland (Cecil
Brooking) takes notes.
ing “Tosca” will
freeze the blood
of Sydney for
the first time
this autumn.
** * *
'Die property
whisky flowed
for the last time
at Sydney Cri-
terion on Wed-
nesday night.
“Lightnin’ Bill”
is transhipping
hi s cellar t o
M.L. this week,
and bottle-mer-
chants will not
b e accommo-
dated at the
Market - street
establish-
ment later than
the evening of
April 1 next.
On the 3rd
(Easter Satur-
day) ‘‘The
Sleeping
Beauty.” an en-
tirely non-alco-
holic panto-
mime, is to be
r e v e r e n-
tially staged.
Eugene O’Brien is back at his old game
of winning hearts, but this time the bold,
handsome fellow makes up to his dad's
young wife. Of course there’s a row in the
marble halls, and the family linen gets thor-
oughly laundered at a big reception given
by dad Marchbanks to show off the points
of his young possession. After that the
neighbors don’t call on the Marchbanks any
more, but keep an interested eye on the
three lights burning in three separate win-
dows every night. Sydney Strand and the
Empress show what is happening inside. At
the Lyceum the screen-master of the heavies.
Frank Keenan, leads a rotten existence as
Mathias, the innkeeper, who had the mis-
fortune to weigh down his victim’s body with
the village, cow-bell instead of a nice quiet
lump of lead. This is the worst of doing
things in a hurry. Keenan’s Mathias is a
fear-haunted fellow warranted to give the
shudders for a week. In addition to “The
Bells,” the Lyceum has “One Week of Life.”
At the Crystal Palace Connie Talmadge
serves up “Sauce for the Goose” in one of
her nearly-over-tlie-edge adventures. And
“Other Men’s Wives” have a miserable sort
of life at Haymarket and Globe.
From an Adelaide critic: —
Lionel Lindsay, whose work has gained great favor
in Adelaide in the two or three years since he first
gave it a chance here, has a show of nearly 100
works at the Preece Gallery. Half the water-colors
are devoted to Spanish scenes, but there are also
his familiar peacocks (the Art Gallery of the State
already has one), and thistles and careless sepia
landscapes. In fact, the variations in technique are
most marked; sometimes he g,ets his effects with,
apparently, the least labor possible, and sometimes
he puts in loving- care. In another room are etchings,
some of them already familiar—the portraits of
brother Norman and of Henry Lawson, for example.
Here, too, is the remarkable “memorial” to Hilder
--a careful reproduction of the last painting he did.
Interesting to note how Lionel has been careful to
avoid comparison with Norman—except in a single
audacious nude, which might quite well be the other
man’s work. Lindsay made a first visit to Adelaide
for this show, and Hans Heysen made one of his
rare visits to the city to do honor to the visitor.
Adelaide had been short of theatrical enter-
tainments, and now the only difficulty of
manager Myers is to find room for the
crowds that want to See “The Sleeping
Beauty.” The lady-like dame of Marriott
Edgar is a strong feature, Welch shares in
the cross-talk, and the humor of the brothers
Egbert, even if it is mainly buffoonery, goes
with a yell. Of the scenes, perhaps the
most beautiful is the sliding woodland which
leads by degrees to the castle-gate. Claude
Beresford supplies unusually good topical
verses for the songs. The Majestic seems
merely bucked up by the fresh competition.
Gorman ans his rather pretty sense of
humor have gone, but Fx-ed Bluett remains,
and the programme is being strengthened on
the athletic side.


m
mm
%
m
mM
wm
THE Firm has received from Paris a selection of Real
Ivory and Tortoiseshell Mounted Handbags. They are
of a rich quality not previously seen in Australia, and
may be had in finest leather, silk and hand-made bead designs.
©Hm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
10=INCH
DOUBLE = SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH
ďf
FROM
4-
EACH.
A Few Selected COLUMBIA RECORDS
From the New List (No. 42).
ALL BRITISH MADE.
12-inch PURPLE LABEL, Single-sided, 8/<i eaclw
7206 —“God Save the King” (Key “A” Flat), with Chorus and Orchestra.
Madame Clara Butt, contralto
7187 —Rigoletto: “Caro Nome” (Dearest Name), (Vercli). In Italian with Orchestra.
Maria Barrientos, soprano
716:? —Traviata: “Di provenza it mar il suol” (from Sour Home in Provence). In Italian,
with Orchestra under G. Polacco K. Straceiari
7208—“ Home, Sweet Home” (Bishop). With Orchestra . ...Hulda Laakanska, soprano
12-inch LIGHT BLUE LABEL, Double-sided, 7/6 each.
I,l3lo—“Keonore No. 3” Overture (Beethoven). Parts I and 2.
Sir Henry J. Wood and Orchestra
( “Keonore No. 3" Overture. Part 3 Sir Henry J. Wood and Orchestra
K 13,0 j Minuet from Septette (Beethoven) «3r Henry J. Wood and Orchestra
Ll322—John Ireland Sonata No. 2 In “A” Minor. (1> Allegro. (2) Poco lento quasi
adagio. Part 1 , Sammons and Murdoch
10-inch LIGHT BLUE LABEL, Double-sided, 5-/- each.
( Ninetta (Weatlierley and Brewer) John Coates, tenor
l Awake! (A Morning Love Song). (Edgar and Pettier) John Coates, tenor
| Love’s Quarrel (C. Scott) Hubert Eisdell, tenor
141407 j Ijo((kin|f Rack (C. Scott) Hubert Eisdell, tenor
12-inch DARK BLUE LABEL, Double-sided, «/- each.
743—Fifth Symphony—Andante. In Two Parts. (BeOthoven).
Philharmonic Orchestra ol‘ New York, under ,1. Strausk.v
.. . j On the Quarter-Deck. March (Alford) Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
744 j March—Ellesmere. (J. E. Grace) Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
[ Recit. and Aria from “Ads and Galatea” (a) I Rage, 1 >lclt, I Burn;
747 | (b) O Ruddier than the Cherry. (Handel).
[ Mephistoplieles Serenade, from “Faust” (Choriey-Gounod) ... Norman Allin
10-inch DARK BLUE LABEL, Double-sided, 4/- each.
2887—“ Tales of Hoffman" (Offenbach) ; Part l “Barcarolle.” Part 2 “Minuet”; Yalse.
Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
~ ) Rigoletto-—“ Ladonna e mobile” (In English). (Verdi) Hughes MackUn
„88« £ Maritana —“There is a Flower T
j Levinsky at the Wedding, Part I tulian Rose
2891
) Maritana—“There is a Flower That Bloonieth.” (Wallace) .. Hughes Macklin
i Levinsky at the Wedding, Part I tulian Rose
( Levinsky at the Wedding, Part 2 Julian Rose
l Fill up a Form (Lee and Weston) Ernest Hastings, entertainer
l Bow Beils (Lee and W’eston)
Ernest Hastings, entertainer
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Itawson Place.
MELBOI BNE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street. 3lelbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd.. 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth. Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.—Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Alien Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —W'ebley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
\ •
CHAS-ffuWOI.T Y D -
pI£L6OUfTHE.
BLOCK floss
Cast Steel Rock-crusher Frame and Manganese Steel Jaw Faces.
L.v
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London,
as Manufacturers of
Steel Castings
CRUSHING SPARES
FOR ALL CLASSES OF
Ore Reduction
Machinery,
CAST STEEL—Battery Liners,
Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing,
Truck Wheels, etc.
CHROME CAST STEEL—For Battery Shoes and Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts, which
“HEAT TREATED.” have to be machined but which are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL—For Rockcrusher Jaws, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
5
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS FOB NWW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


This Simple Rule
Soon Strengthens
a Delicate Stomach.
It really Is unnecessary to dose yourself
with pepsin pills or artificial digestives, or to
live on a miserable nursery diet. If you will
observe one easy rule you can eat the hearty,
nourishing foods that your appetite craves
and your body needs. That rule is to take a
teaspoonful of Salix Magnesia in a half-glass
of hot water with each meal. Salix Magnesia
Is non laxative, and harmless, and possesses
medicinal qualities that promptly overcome
Impaired digestion, fermentation, acidity,
catarrhal conditions of the stomach, gas, dis-
tress after eating, and other stomach dis-
orders. As magnesia is prepared in various
wavs, be certain to insist on obtaining it from
your chemist in the Salix form (in powder or
coni pressed tablets form), especially recom-
mended for stomach purposes.
Instantly! Com Pains Vanish!
Corns Loosen! Lift Right Off!
No Hurts! Few Drops Loosen Corns and Callouses so
They Brush OS—Never Let Corns Pain
Twhe—No Joke!
d
For a few pence you may obtain
a little pbial of the wizard inven-
tion, Frozol-Ice, recently dis-
covered by an eminent chemist.
Merely inquire of any chemist
for a tiny bottle of
Frozol-Ice. Put a few
drops on to a sensitive,
throbbing corn or callous,
and like a flash all soreness
goes away, and soon you find
the corn or callous so loose tnat
you can lift it right out with the
Just fancy! Not one trace of pain in apply-
ing Frozol-Ice, or afterwards. Not the slight-
est inflammation of surrounding healthy flesh.
Corns between the toes, hard corns, soft
corns, also toughened callouses on the bottom
of the feet wither up and fall off without
hurting one wee bit. Frozol-Ice is a scientific
substance manufactured from ether, and the
genuine is always sold in these little bottles,
inside a round, green carton.
Refuse false imitations with similar names.
Cccoanut Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to beep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated.” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse Colinated Cocoanut
Oil with cheaper, stickv. emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one Genuine
Colinated Cocoanut Oil, as recommended above.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIÀL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
“Hiphen”: It used to be Claude Ban*
lock’s boast that he never wasted a clean
pair of gloves on an undemonstrative audi-
ence. If the house was warm he sported
spotless whites; if it was chill, last month’s
rejects were good enough. He was wont
to stand in the wings and inquire of any-
one coming off stage: “How are they?” The
company, knowing his idiosyncrasy, would
answer: “Clean ones. Claude,” or “Put on
your dirty 'uns.” One night Fred Leslie
retired in disorder from an audience which
fairly froze the marrow in his bones. To
Bantock’s usual query he replied: “Wear
your black ones, Banty; they’re blanky
tombstones.”
“Vic.”: Rogers and Lambert acted only
once together. This was at the Melbourne
Royal, with Rogers as Sir Peter Teazle and
Lambert as Sir Oliver Surface. Lambert
came to Australia
in 1855 with his
wife, who played
old-women parts,
and his niece
Fanny Morgan,
who made a hit in
Melbourne as
Whittington i n
the 1857 panto-
mim e. He ap-
peared in Sydney
as King of Bavaria
with Lola Montez.
Later he returned
to England, but
came to Australia
again. When h e
finally went back
t o England h e
settled in his
native town of
Wells, Norfolk, in
which county his
first theatrical
experiences were
under Chopin’s
father. H e left
with his nephew in
Richmond about
half a dozen
volumes of his
manuscript auto-
biography, in the
belief that their
publication would
take better in Aus-
tralia than in
“Kindling,” at Sydney
Palace.
Harry Roberts as
Heinie Shales.
England. However, nothing has ever been
done with them.
“E.J.M.”: The first dramatisation of the
Kelly Gang story was written by E. C.
Martin 40 years ago. The play was named
“Ostracised,” and as Martin was a member
of the Age staff and in conjunction with
Joe Melvin had been doing the special writ-
ing up of the Kellys, the stuff was true to
life—hammered off the anvil, so to speak.
Staged at the old Princess’s in Melbourne, it
was an instantaneous success. A few songs
were written by Pat Finn. Gilbert Probyn
Smith was also associated in some way with
the production. But although “Ostracised”
proved a financial success in Melbourne, the
author did not collect in full, for every
barnstorming co. in Australia froze on to
the play with more or less distorted versions
of it. As they were financial duds Martin
had to philosophically smile at the infringe-
ment of his copyright. Joe Melvin and
E. C. Martin belonged to the old brand of
pressmen who had to be writers as well as
reporters. Melvin ended his days on Mel-
bourne Herald. Martin, after bravely
breasting a “sea of troubles” —he was a
mechanical genius without funds—passed
out in the service of the Age.
"Old Pot”: Winifred O’Connor, who will
appear under the Mclntosh management,
seemed too prim and proper to be the ideal
musical-comedy artiste. It was dainty Maie
Sydney who was the star of the first produc-
tion of “The Arcadians.” Winifred, like
I lorence Perry, one of the Firm’s singing
leads, was more interesting as a cantatrice
than as an actress. Musical-comedy ar-
tistes who combine these gifts are rich and
rare. The O’Connor tripped it nicely, but
she was not a classy dancer like Dorothy
Brunton. Mclntosh, by the way, angled for
Ivy Shilling, too. She wouldn’t bite,
though the bait was good; but later she
flirted with J.C.W., Ltd. She would prefer
to come back under their auspices.
“Jake B.”: “M. 8.” (B. 11/3/’2O) says 11.
Fraser-Simson composed the music of both
“The Maid of the
Mountains” an d
“T h e Southern
Ma i d.” I don’t
know whether it is
merely camouflage,
but the score of
“M aid of the
Mountains” bears
the name of Jas.
W. Tate. Tate is
the husband o f
Clarice May n e,
an d visited A u s-
tralia as her
accompanist. H e
still appears i n
English m usic
halls as “That” in
“Clarice May n e
and That,” but has
lapses during
which he produces
pantos, for the pro-
vinces. Regarding
“The Southern
Maid,” I saw the
Manchester pr o-
duction t o which
“M. 8.” refers, and
will be much sur-
prised if it has
anything like the
success of its pre-
decessor at Daly’s.
Jessie Lonnen was
in the cast, and
“Buzz Buss,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Minnie Love (sob-
song expert) smiling
through tears.
got much praise from the Guardian.
“Mid-Channel”: “Stargazer”(B. 18/3/’2O)
is wrong—Flora Graupner didn’t play
Phoebe in “The Yeomen of the Guard.” She
played Elsie Maynard, and was deservedly
famous for her part in the duet. “I
have a Song to Sing-oh.” The Phoebe
of “The Yeomen” was Violet Varley,
and after her death Nina Osborne
played this part. It can scarcely be
contended that Violet Varley and Flora
Graupner were “rivals,” as they had parts
quite distinct. Certainly no other two artists
have been produced in G. and S. operas here
the equal of either. “T. D. Emdee” (B.
18/3/’2O) is also wrong in saying that
“Princess Ida” wasn’t a success; and “Rud-
digore” has not been produced professionally
here at all. It was a comparative failure in
England because the impression was that
Gilbert had lost bis punch, but no one con-
tends that the Sullivan part isn’t of the best
quality. The only production I recall of
“Ruddigore” was one by the Petersham
(Sydney) Amateurs somewhere about 1903
or 1904 in the local town hall. As for
“Utopia, Ltd.,” one can scarcely write that
down a failure. The crowd that handled it
was totally unsuited to its proper produc-
tion, and that’s the only sort of production
that it is fair to judge a G. and S. opera by.
“Hamer”: After a hard struggle, the
Actors’ Union is safely registered ; and the
moribund Actors’ Association, formed origin-
ally to help the managements in squelching
a union, goes into liquidation. The secre-
tary to the liquidators, now invitins the
creditors to send along their bills, is 11. W.
Varna, who came to Australia in the first
place to help the Williamson people stage
“The Darling of the Gods,” and has since
then done a good deal of stage-management
for the Firm. At one time, while Julius
Superbus Knight was doing a spell in hos-
pital and Plimmer was swanking through
his parts, Varna doubled the holding of the
book with the playing of considerable rbles,
one of them Nero in “Sign of the Cross.”
“E.T.”: When Robert Courtneidge pays
his projected return visit to us middle-aged
playgoers will be reminded by the goods he
displays of the Brough and Boucicault days.
For Robert as a producer of comedies is
equal to “Dot” at his best, and his plays
are the brightest and breeziest on the market.
In addition to “The Man from Toronto” we
shall no doubt see his latest acquisition,
which was down for production last month
at Manchester. This is a version of Gert-
rude Page’s novel, “Paddy, the Next Best
Thing,” done by Gayer Mackey and Robert
Ord, the authors of that entertaining piece,
“Doctor Wake's Patient.” *
“C. Ockney”: The attempt to push Shaw
back on to the English stage didn’t come off.
The piece, “Arms and the Man,” came off
instead, after a very few weeks. That man-
agers are still hopeful of restoring the erra-
tic playwright’s prestige is, however, evident
from the fact that a revival of “Pygmalion”
is being tried at the Aldwych, with Mrs. Pat
Campbell in her old part of the Cockney
flower-seller, Liza Doolittle, and Aubrey
Smith in the late Beerhohtn Tree’s character.
If that piece, with its sanguinary adjective
still retained, doesn’t do the trick, Shaw
will be able to conscientiously call himself
a retired dramatist.
Maurice Sheehan, the new president of the
S.A. Licensed Victuallers’ Assoc., toured
with the J. C. Williamson firm for four
years and then had two in Europe. He has
been settled contentedly in Adelaide since
1912.
“D.”: The realism of the frying liver-and-
bacon in “Kindlin’,” at Sydney Palace, is
nothing to the star feature of “Jeanne
D’Arc” as produced in Paris by Bernhardt.
There was an immense stake and the flames
were real. Sara was placed in position and
securely lashed. As the devouring element
crept about her legs and waist a ghastly
smell of roasting flesh permeated the theatre.
Supers were burning unclothed rabbits over
braziers in the wings.
“Stargazer”: Having witnessed “An
Auction of Souls,” displaying the horrors of
Turkish rule in Armenia, I am satisfied that
such films should not be displayed to mixed
audiences. The guffaws of hoodlums in those
moments when Turkish ferocity is most in
evidence are proof enough that the picture
is not taken in the spirit in which the adver-
tisement puts it. The display of a little
bare feminine hide is quite enough to rob
the scene of its appeal to human compassion,
as is made evident by the yaps of juvenile
spectators. The care with which several of
the screen actresses concerned undrape at
crucial moments is sufficient proof, too, that
the proprietors of the film aim to score
through those pagan emotions which the young
toughs in .my vicinity freely demonstrated.
The “Auction of Souls” cannot possibly be as
bad as the Turks were in their dealings with
Armenian women, but it gets close up with
suggestion that is apparent to the humblest,
and my hoodlums got on to it with uncouth
bellowings that expressed anything but grief.
Many, more such moral, elevating and pity-
inspiring spectacles, and decent patrons of
the pictures will be driven to dominoes as
a means of passing the winter evenings.
“0.K.”: All this talk about making every-
thing in the garden lovely for the Prince of
Wales reminds me of a story of the late
Fred B. Norton, of Melbourne. His friends
had sentenced him to a brief confinement in
a paying ward of the Alfred. It happened
that the Governor’s wife came along, eaiTer
than was expected, to do the amiable, so the
institution was thrown into a flutter of
hasty preparation. To the ward where
Fred B. was coughing and grumbling the
weary hours away came an excited nurse
making all things tidy. “Let me shake up
your pillows, and, for goodness sake, do
lie straight /” said Nursey; “Ladv Talbot
will be here in a moment.” ‘‘Heavens!”
replied Norton. “You mustn’t let her Lady-
ship see anything so unsightly as me! Keep
her out of the ward until I crawl under the
bed.”
“Row A.”: “Smike” (B. 11/3/’2O) re-
marks on the absurdity of baritone Claude
Flemming going to London to fill a good
engagement while Tivoli Mclntosh is reach-
ing out by cable for a similar voice to sing
in his “Pink Domino.” It’s the audiences
that are to blame, not the managers. Com-
ing away from the first performance of
“Kindling” at Sydney Palace, I heard a jaded
playgoer say that Emelie Polini was “going
off.” She isn’t. But that playgoer, hav-
ing seen the clever woman in several plays,
pines for somebody else with different
methods. Hence the move-on law.
“Norbell”: Fred Esmelton, now stage-
manager for the “Lightnin’ ” co., toured
Australia with Dampier in the ’nineties. He
came up to join us at Toowoomba (Q.)
“Buzz Buzz," at
Sydney Tivoli.
Billy Elliott, the
black-faced Caruso.
the co. was having
a week's “rest” in
Brisbane, and I
happened to be the
only one to meet
him on the Downs.
We spent the week
together rehears-
ing. I did Star-
light, Eile e n.
Moran, Dick, War-
ri g a 1, e t e., tout
ensemble, whilst
Esmelton mastered
his bit as Store-
field. We opened
in the old Assembly
Rooms (now a
livery stable) in
August, ’96, to big
business. There
were a number of
binghis about Too-
woomba i n those
days, and we
arranged to bor-
row a piccaninny
for Warrigal, dis-
guised as a black
gin, to carry on iu
one scene. The
whole tribe waited
at the stage door
to collect the baby
and to clamor for
t.ickapenny a head
for its services.
That kid was an
effective bit of
r e a 1 i s m—l can
smell it yet! I was Warrigal.
“Georges le Blank” on Turkish etiquette:
The great number of errors of detail in the much
boomed “Auction of Souls” Him lead me to suspect
that the help given its producers by a genuinr
Armenian was very slight, indeed. A Turkish officer
in ordering his men to approach is made to accom-
pany this command with an upward jerk of the
chin. That motion to a Turk means “No.” The
correct gesture would have been made with the
arm slightly extended and the hand going through
the action of patting the empty air a couple of
times—much the same performance as we go through
in waving good-bye, with the difference that the
arm is held at a much lower level by the Turks.
(It was in connection with this “come here” sign
that I first realised that signs do not have a univer-
sally accepted meaning. A party of us, 10 in
number, wounded and helpless, decided to surrender
to the surrounding Turks one Sunday morning four
and a half years ago. We cast away our rifles, and
those who were able stood up and held up our hands.
Luckily this sign is understood everywhere. We
waited and then saw a hand making signs, as we
thought, to get down. As there seemed no sense in
doing this —no cover was available and we were not
in any line of fire —we stood still in wonderment,
which increased when Jacko let fly with three rounds
One man was killed and one wounded. Afterwards
an officer explained to me that as we did not obey
the order to approach the Turks were quite right
in firing on us.) Again, the mission lady frustrate?
the evil designs of the Turkish officer in whose
power she is by breaking his bread ration in halves
and then claiming the protection of the laws of
hospitality on this account. In the first place,
though these laws may be honored, by a few tribes
of homely desert Arabs (personally I would not
trust to their observance unless I had a Lewis-gun
with me), the army officer, be he Turk or Arab —
and it s was to such the lady appealed—has a whole-
some contempt for the desert Arab and an utter
disrespect for his customs. In the second place,
bread is a holy thing with many Mohammedans, and
anyone breaking it as carelessly as does the girl in
the picture would find life rather exciting. As a
rule, bread is not broken but cut, and in any case
the greatest care is taken that no crumbs fall where
they can be trodden on.
Last session the Speck Assembly wiped
out the State picture-censor Board by the
simple pi’ocess of refusing it funds when
the estimates were considered. Members
reckoned that the Federal censors were
enough. However, the other day the
Mothers’ Union fainted at the showing of a
picture that had been turned down by the
defunct Board and had not, it is alleged,
been before the Federal body at all. Cabinet
promptly resurrected the corpse, and now
the State Board is in full operation once
more, and the Speck has been saved from
Perdition!
SUPERANNUATED:
The Lament of an Old Shakspeaman Actor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M.v life is drawing to a close; I make no lamentation,
For what of joy have I in this suburban desolation?
I mix with scullions who for years have been so well
attended
By good Morcutio, whose wit is very much com-
mended.
I had a friend, Horatio, of pleasant parts exceeding,
And Rosencrantz and Guilderstern were gentlemen
of breeding.
lago may have been a rogue, but was a mannered
fellow,
And Falstaff was no loutish wight, though very often
mellow.
Foregathered 1 in Arden with the Duke, a noble
gentle,
And relished Touchstone’s folly, which was quaint if
elemental.
1 roamed with Jacques, a man of birth; and wliat
is here to walk with
But scurvy knaves who trade in goods,' a sort one
cannot talk with?
I’m thrown 'inid chambermaids, who oft- with Rosa-
lind went wooing;
I kissed with Desdemona, and sweet Juliet pursuing
Have tasted Paradise, and lurked where Portia shared
my blisses;
Oft lovely Cleopatra hung about this neck for kisses.
Here in a boarding-house I face the deadly round
diurnal.
Is’t strange, then, that I long to pass away to realms
supernal,
To play my old rbles o’er again where millions
seventy-seven
Are gathered to applaud my art? ’Tis my idea of
Heaven 1
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
THE SEATS OF THE FLIGHTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Winning the war claimed the whole of one’s
attention, and the majority of women gave clothe -
thought a seat very much in the rear.”—Sun.
The fashions change, and girls are kind;
In gladder rags they now appear
Before, the clothes-thought was behind;
The seat of war’s now in the rear.
it.s.w.
NORBELL.


EVERYTHING FOR THE HOLIDAYS
AT MURDOCH’S
a
SHOPPING for a holiday is always a worrisome sort of business. Needs are many, yet
you want your expenditure to be as light as possible—it’s hard to decide what to include
and what to do without.
Knowing just where to shop will help a lot, for Murdoch’s
values will enable your limited spending money to include much more than it otherwise would.
Consider, for instance, these
SMART READY-TO-WEAR SUITS
VERY MODERATELY PRICED.
Si
III!
r
63/-
Ready-to-Wear Sports Sacs and
Trousers. Australian Tweed,
smart check design, cut in the
latest style, 4 patch pockets, half
belt, 4 small pleats gathered into
back. No vents in back. Trousers:
Side and Hip Pockets, permanent
turn-up bottoms. Loops,
side straps
Australian Woollen Tweeds, in
Medium and Dark shades of Grey,
small broken check designs. Sacs
have 2-button fronts, roll lapel, *
plain backs, smart cut, cutaway fronts.
S.B. Vests —4 pockets, long points.
Trousers—Side and Hip Pockets,
permanent turn-up bottoms
701-
THE SEASON'S
SMARTEST FELTS
will make all the difference in the world to
your holiday appearance. You’ll look smart
and sort of pleased-with-yourself; and when
you LOOK as though you’re enjoying yourself
—well generally you are.
Smart Line of Mens Soft Felts, 2inch cut edge, loose side bows, in Slate, Grey, Black, Brown and Fawn.
All sizes 15/6
Dressy Soft Felts for business or holiday wear, 2i-inch brims, in Green, Reseda, Brown, Slate and Steel, 8/11
Similar lines in 2i-inch brims in Slate with black band, Steel with black band, Fawn with black band,
Brown with self band 8/11
Murdoch’s Genuine Velours, in Black, Olive, Slate and Brown 27/6. Extra quality. .. . 75/-
ď
f
Leather Kit Bags, cloth-lined, nickel-
fitting, side lock.
Sizes 12in. Min. 16in. 18in. 20in.
Prices 25/6 30/- 34/- 38/- 42 6
Brown Fibre Suit Cases, iron frame, nickel fittings,
eight capped corners and leather handle.
Sizes 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in. 28in.
Prices 26/- 28/- 30/- 32/- 37/-
1)
5^
a
Zephyr Golf Shirts, with detachable
soft collar to match. Blue or Black
stripes, on white ground.
Price, 7/6 each; 3 for 22/-
MURDOCH’S in Park Street Ltd., Sydney,
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special li i
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS 00 ROUNJi ?
«ectAZ
LEWIS &WfIITTy MAKERS
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOB INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANAEMIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Kxliilarating.
SUL
SISTERE
(Registered.)
A.B
ď
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
and sustaining qualities.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
I ! *
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 354-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD.. Clarence Street. Sydney, Agents for S.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little ipore.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
There was nothing about (lie appearance,
behavior or running of Chrysolaus (imp.) at Rose-
hill on Saturday to support Melbourne’s unfavorable
opinion of him. The evidence was' all the other
way. lie was conspicuously tractable, carried pleifi''
of muscle, and with fist, on top took the Railway
Handicap without effort from a top-class field.
George Graves and Kcnelis were nearest at the end,
but it was obvious that Lillyman could have in-
creased his length-and-u-half lead. Over the last
furlong nothing had a chance with the winner. For
the Doncaster Chrysolaus takes 101 b. off in a field
not much better than Jic beat on Saturday. Assum-
ing he doesn’t go mad at Rundwick —it was in his
favor on Saturday that he happens to live at Rose-
hill—-and that lie gets decently served at the barrier,
Chrysolaus must be tremendously hard to beat in the
big mile.
Artilleryman had an exercise gallop in the nine
furlongs Rawson Stakes, w.f.a. Getting in front of
Cetigne, AVestcourt, Mi Heine and Yarraldool a couple
of furlongs from the line, he ran home, under a pull,
a couple of lengths in front of Milleme. Old
Cetigne could make no impression on him. AA’est-
court stopped half-wav up the straight and MeLach-
laii got off. The old Melbourne Cun winner took
nearly a quarter of an hour to hobble back to the
paddock. The ligaments in one of his forelegs had
gone. There will be no more racing for him.
Artilleryman’s effort showed no more' than every-
body knew- —that he is a thumping good colt. 1-Ie
had a big pull in weight over the two older horses,
and at w.f.a. is certainly a long way ahead of Mil-
leme, though this colt is improving and will be
heard of again. Compared with Poitrel’s perform-
ance in the Club Handicap, the three-year-old’s ex-
hibition was a tame affair. In this Poitrel lia<i
fist. 121 b. aboard, and among the runners were
Kennaquhair fist. 61b.. lan ’Or Bst. 51b., Bunting
Bst. lib., Kenilford Bst. lib., Emblematic 7st. 41b.
and 10 others, the range of
weights in the handicap
being 471 b. As usual, the
little horse was slow to
move and was well back
at six furlongs. There he
started to unwind himself.
Travelling on the extreme
outside, he was half-way
up at the turn, and at the
Leger about six back. At
this stage Bunting and
three or four lightweights
were going strong in front,
but the little chap, gallop-
ing like a sprinter with
his big cargo, collared
them in the last few
strides and arrived with a
gallant head sticking well
out from Bunting, who
ran an exceptionally good
race. Poitrel ran the 11
furlongs in “20-1,” a record
i'or the Rosehill course.
The abbreviated champion
was wildly cheered as he
trotted in. A peculiarity
about the race was that
Bracken kept him well out
on the course all the way.
He never went inside a
single horse on the trip.
SAM P. MACKAY,
owner of Macadam,
winner of Australian
Cup, 1920.
At the S.A.J.C. meeting Lord Nangar, in
the second division of the AVelter, paid £B3 for
every £1 invested. The Forestville Handicap (6fur.)
went to the ancient gelding Arotto (Antonio- —Otter :
in the smart time of lmin. lojsee. The Somer-
ton Handicap (1£ mile) was an exercise gallop for
the Pistol mare Boontree.
* * * *
The St. Simon horse St. Savin, brought
here from the U.S.A., sired the winner of the Plate
at Albion Park (Q.) in Lord Duf'our. The Purse
at the same meeting went to Buranda, by Little
Beriiie, who got a break on the field and was taking
no risks with the cartloads invested on him.
The stipe stewards at Caulfield the other
Saturday brought little reasoning power to bear
mi their consideration of the Franklin-Ipoh case.
Ipoh is a hard-mouthed, self-willed animal that
made straight for the inside rails, towards the
finish of a race, as soon as he was well ahead of
the field. In cutting across the track he didn't
actually interfere with anything, yet he won by
three lengths. His jockey. Franklin, it was obvious
to everyone, could have had no end to serve in
pulling his mount across the field: he simply had
to let the horse have its way. The stewards might
very well have advised him to have no more to
do with the beast, seeing that the same nag had
got him into trouble once before by playing the
same trick. Instead, they chose to suspend the
jockey for two months for careless riding. Stipes
seem ever ready io distinguish themselves by doing
something which is no sort of chock on roguery.
“Sheila”: At the Port Adelaide meetiug
Intolerance won St. Patrick’s Handicap, beating Green
Cap. At Orange in the Sarsficld Handicap Kumally
beat Sliamus O’Brien. The 700 years of persecu-
tion Krin has endured are still being commemo-
rated.
There were only three nags left in the
Juinbuck AVolter, and a bookie from the metropolis
yelled his willingness to lay tenth to von against
Ncverbudge. A rural punter took 20 to two. “You
can have it again if you like,” announced Palestein.
The rustic and on being again dared took
a third helping'. Ncverbudge won and Palestein
paid out with the air of a man who had been the
victim of cruel mischance. A city punter who hail
■witnessed'the transaction approached the successful
bettor. “I say, did you know when you made that
bet that Palestein is the owner of Ncverbudge?” he
inquired. The rural innocent nodded. “Yes, but he
didn’t know that I own the other two.”
“0.K.” : Is modern jockeysliip rough and
foul enough lo justify racing reporters in offering
such excuses for the defeats of first-class horses as
were never heard in the days of Carbine and Aber-
corn ? Tliis sort of par. is now an every-week item:
“Poitrel went out favorite for the Club Handicap
at Rosehill, and finished out of a place; but lie is
stated to have experienced a bad passage, and there
is no reason to he apprehensive as to his condi-
tion.” Some horse or another is constantly being
instanced as the victim of “a had passage,” with
tlic tacit insinuation that it is all in the game
and not to he grumbled at. Seeing that the Club
Handicap was 10 furlongs, and only 12 starters
were concerned in it, the “bad passage” apology is
unsatisfactory. How many bumps, blocks and
pockctings did Poitrel experience in this race, in
which seven of the 12 starters finished close together?
Tlic great horses of the past used to assert their
superiority in crowded fields. Handicaps or w.f.a.
races came all the same to Carbine. He finished
second for the Melbourne Cup and first for the
Sydney ditto in one year, and next y«ir he won
both Cups. There was much talk beforehand of the
bad passage he was going to have at Melbourne,
and doubtless some of the 40 and more starters
did get in his way and bump him for a while,
but the champion came when required and won by
several lengths. Either “bad passages” must be a
lot worse than they were in Carbine’s time, or the
top-notcli performers of to-day are very poor succes-
sors to the old champions, or the riding is less
respectable. Poitrel, who is called a champion, has
run unplaced in half a dozen handicaps or more.
Compare his record with that of Carbine, who ran
in two Melbourne and two Sydney Cups, one Aus-
tralian Cup and one Newmarket Handicap, and was
placed every time. Or AVakeful, winner of a Sydney
Cup and Newmarket, anti second in a Caulfield and
Melbourne Cup!
* * * *
Automatic Totalis:i tors, Ltd., is among
the many concerns which have demonstrated that
they can do it better in Australia. This co.’s machines,
made from end to end by Australian engineers and
artisans in the Commonwealth, are to be inspected
shortly by a special Commission of French racing
men. And they have used totes, of a sort, on French
racecourses for 20 vears.
* * * *
It is about time the local “buckjumping”
shows were classed with cock-fighting and bull-bait-
ing. They are really horse-baiting entertainments.
Not one of the alleged "outlaws” in a thousand will
buck worth tuppence without a flank rope, and a
flank rope should no more be permitted in a civilised
community than a picador’s dart. The attitude of
the crowd towards the unhappy animals which per-
form was well shown in Sydney on Saturday at the
“AA'lld AVest,” exhibition on the Show Ground. The
onlookers flooded the ring, tied bullocks together by
their tails, attached tins' to other animals, and
generally did things- which in (say) England would
have produced some hundreds of S.P.C.A. prosecu-
tions. Macaulay’s Puritan hated bear-baiting because
it gave pleasure to the spectators: our show-patrons
appear to like the sport for the anguish which it.
Causes the victims. ‘
* * * *
Cabled that Tommy Buriis is coming out
again in pursuit of championship honors. He was
26 when Jack Johnson stopped him at Sydney
Stadium 12 years ago; and though only sft. Tin. in
height, he was reported last year to weigh 3 6st.
“Silas”: The fight had occupied an hour
and a half, and been a quaint exhibition of sparring,
ducking, slipping and side-stepping, each man
apparently directing his opponent by signals how
to evade tlie blow he had telegraphed' ahead. AA'hen
not manoeuvring in tliis way, the boys were in
affectionate holts, and giving the referee much
trouble in boring between them, or trying to tear
them asunder. Finally the verdict was given t<>
young Fitzgammon on points, and the victor joined
his friends at, the ringside. There was a small
abrasion on the side of his nose, where he had
rubbed if too affectionately against his cobber’s
bead in the course of their embracings. A relation
pointed to the scrape. “AVhy, there’s blood!” he
said. The hero rubbed the spot, gazed at the stain,
and turned a little pale. “Gorstruth,” he groaned,
“he must ha’ hit pie!”
* * * *
The Digger Evans who faced Sid Godfrey
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night was a very
different pug from the cocksure fighting-machine
that had crashed so gaily into Jamito and Green.
The Digger looked well and strong, but anxious.
His opponent also looked anxious; but then he
always does. The featherweight champion mastered
the soldier practically from the start. A wicked
light to the Digg-cr’s head early in the first round
nearly ended the proceedings out of hand. Evans
stayed down for seven seconds, and on rising boxed
gamely and well. But his experience had taught
him nothing: or else Godfrey’s famous right is un-
stoppable, as Tommy Burns averred Jack Johnson’s
uppercut was. Early in the second round Godfrey
swung a terrific punch which landed with a dull
thud full on the point. Down went the ex-soldier
dead to the world. Godfrey's right resembles
McGoorty’s left, and many who watched the outing
of Evans recalled the tragic futility of Dave Smith
—strong and brilliant boxer though he was—in the
presence of his master. On Saturday’s showing the
Digger will be a wonder if he goes 3 0 rounds with
the Raglan boy at. their next meeting.
Wests had a near shave against Sydney.
Still, the result did not affect the Sydney cricket
premiership. They now lead ’Varsity and Gordon by
six points. Glebe have given way to C. Cumberland
at the tail of the procession. The rest of, the teams
stand pretty much together.
A more wretched performance than that ol Central
Cumberland against Glebe lias never been seen in
Sydney Club cricket. In reply to Glebe’s 178 C.C.
fell short by 315, and foUowing on gave Glebe 33
to win. This cost Kelleway’s team three wickets.
Kelleway himself took six wickets for 47. Norths
against" ’Varsity once more felt the want of a bowler.
They can pile up the runs, but are impotent to stop
the other fellow. Uni. managed to stick it out with
seven for 274 against North’s four for 515 (declared).
Rock’s 126 for ’Varsity was the most brilliant bit
of batting of the afternoon. The rejuvenated O’Con-
nor bowled with his old swing for Svdney in West’s
second innings. He got seven for 54 against that
strong batting side. Sydney lost by only six runs.
They have a weak team on paper, but Asher, Cohen
or O'Connor rise to the
occasion. Petersham
looked to have a
chance against Gordon,
but Macartney was
in both batting and
bowling form. lie
quickly outed the Pete
batsmen who were left
over from last Satur-
day and then got 108
in Trumperesque style.
Down, Tozer and Dwyer
assisted. Balmain’s win
against Middle Harbor
was foregone. Except
for Scott and AVoolcott.
in the village’s second
knock, nobody seemed
to care who won, and
Folkard and Bassett
improved their bowling
averages. Paddington
could not get 200 in
reply to AVaverley’s
327. Ives, Tusbin and
Hendry bowled well for
the Boneyarders, and
AA'ells, who lias not
quite fulfilled his
earlier promise as a
batsman, got G 8 in
workmanlike fashion
for Paddington.
J. H.
CLAYTON,
President
N.S.W. Cricket
Association.
“Hamer”: Politicians being the most
original people on earth, it has occurred to one of
them to say in Sydney that cricket needs bright-
ening. Although true, the remark is a cheeky one
for a politician to make. If cricket was played on
the lines the politician uses to govern the country,
Carter, after leading his men into the field, would
stand in the centre of the wicket and talk in a loud
tone to the umpires about what his men intended to
do; and when he called upon Mailev to start bowl-
ing, that player would drape himself against the
wicket and make a fervid peroration for all the
ground to hear. Then, switching ronruj to take his
run and start bowling, he would be held by the
warning hand of the opposing batsman, who would
desire to place his views about the rottenness of
the bowling before the public. When the game
really started, there would be a wordy scene every
time a bowler was no-balled ; and if a player in the
outfield brought off a catch he would turn to the
onlookers, and, commencing with “Mr. Umpire,” tell
them all about how he did it. But the game would
probably not get as far as that in one day; for.
after the debate which arose after the first four had
been hit, Norman, the Minister for Erratic Bowling,
would move the adjournment of the field; and further
proceedings would be postponed till to-morrow.
An old cricket point turned up again in
Adelaide lately, AA'ith AVest Torrens batting against
East Torrens, one batsman was “backing-up” over-
eagerly when the other had strike. The bowler
thought it was being overdone, paused in his
delivery, and removed the bails of the wicket at his
end; and the backer-up, being out of his ground,
was given run out. Some have suggested that this
is sharp practice, but of its legality there is no
doubt, and it may be argued that the “point,” if
any, was being taken by the other fellow in start-
ing to make a run before the ball had even left the
batsman’s hand. This was a favorite trick of AA". G.
Grace when in company where he thought it safe
to take liberties.
Wally Marks, the new Federal member for
Wentworth (N.S.AV.), friend of Lipton and best-
known of Australian yachting men, is going out of
that sport. He has just followed up the sale oi
Culwuila IV. by handing over Oenone to Jack Brno
ton, who owns Gladwood, Double Bay. Off Gladwood
there lay for years another famous cruising vacht,
the Electra, first owned and sailed by Carlton
Kelly and after his death by T. 11. Kelly".
* * * *
Norman Peach landed the City of Sydney
singles tennis championship on Saturday, defeating
R. >'eil by three sets to one. Peach’s volleying was
the feature. These players have clashed in half a
dozen finals this year, and Peach has lost onlv one
of them. X. and F. Peach also took the men’s
doubles, and F. Peach and Miss Lance won the chal-
lenge pairs.
Yankee cyclist Hans Ohrt won the 10-mile
scratch race brilliantly a week ago in 23min. 46sec.
(.an Australian record) ; on Wednesday he was second
to Alex. Mcßeath in the live miles, and on Saturday
he only went down by inches to C. J. Walker iii
another five-mile scratch event. Bob Spear-
(America) won special matches against Mcßeath and
Ohrt.
Last week Oscar Dickman, of Sydney,
again took the X. S. Wales League of Swimmers halt-
mile championship. Time, 12mi.ii. 29sec. The speedy
pro. is the holder of the half-mile "Australasian recoi l
(llmin. ISsec.), put up at Leichhardt (Sydney) in
January, 1012.
* * * *
The improving Violet Walrond clipped
another slice off the M.L. lOOydsj ladies' swimming
record at Christchurch on Saturday when she did
the hundred in Tlsec. This is five seconds away front
Fanny Durack’s world’s record.
That clinking tennis doubles pair O’Hara
Wood and R. V. Thomas took the Australian cham-
pionship at Adelaide on Saturday, defeating H. Rict
(N.S.W.) and R. Taylor (Vic.) by 6—l, 6—o, 7—o.
It is the third title won by them during the present
season.
* * *
Jack D’Aicy, who stroked the leading eight
in the Vie. Championship in Melbourne the other
day, is a notable young athlete. He was champion
of Xavier’s in 1918, winning the 100, 220 and 440
yards in brilliant time. In the united Public
Schools’ sports a little later he was first in the 100yds.
and second and third in the 220yds. and 440yds.
He started rowing two or three years ago, had his
first success at Nagambie as stroke of the winning
maiden eight, and did the trick again at Colac last
New Year’s Day. On January 24 he led the maiden
four home on the Upper Yarra, and he followed
this up by snapping the Junior Fours (Ballarat) and
Maiden Pairs (Geelong). D’Arcv, who is about the
lightest stroke on record (fist. 51b.), has just turned
21, and will captain Victoria in the Australian
Championship at Brisbane on May 10.
*■ * . *
The general wage unrest has affected Mel-
bourne footballers, and clubs will be compelled to
pay a bit more to keep their stars. The other day
some of South's warriors expressed their annoyance
at the size of their “allowances,” and there was
deep pain in their voices when they mentioned the
club’s extravagance in spending .€3OO on the grand-
stand —money which might well have been handed
to them! Some of the other clubs are yet to have
their annual shindies, at which, by the way, there
should be some talk about the play of certain
champions at tlic end of last season. Allegations
of strange lassitude are being wafted about, with
yams as to the amount of “influence” that was
necessary to produce the feeling.
Something doing in billiards this winter
in England. Falkiner, who doesn’t appear to have
received any points, defeated plugger Inman by
1100 in a game of 10,000, whilst Newman, in a
struggle of the same length, beat Reece by nearly
9000 points. If the nervous and dyspeptic Reece
played up to the form lie showed in Australia a
few years ago, Newman .must be a mightily-improved
artist. But there is a feeling among billiardists in
this country that young Walter Lindrum needs only
a little more time and the necessary opportunity
to make him better than the best of the Englishmen.
He and brother Fred are unlucky in having nobo.lv
but one another to meet on equal terms.
__ “Bromide” : The other morning I counted
15 parties* trawling in Rose Bay alone. It is about
time that Sydney Harbor was closed to netting, and
the Dago sent further afield. The scarcity of fish
has already caused “Footy” Pearce, who for 50 years
kept his boats at Double Bay', to go out of a busi-
ness which was a boon to many Saturday afternoon
and Sunday sportsmen.
A humorous interlude in last week's
Sievier-Wootton libel suit was the plaintiff’s cry of
incredulity when his enemy claimed to be a member
of the Australian Jockey Club. The Continental
Jockey Clubs arc on a par with the London Turf
Club, an exclusive institution which has blackballed
many a respectable peer. Sievier plainly didn’t
know that even he could become a member of the
A.J.C. by the simple process of tendering his sub-
scription (he is already a member of the National
Sporting Club and of many r racing clubs), and
neither did his counsel nor the learned Judge. In
fact, probably not a soul in court was aware of
the position—always excepting the wily Richard
Wootton.
The motor-car is as yet too young an insti-
tution for its bearing on the health of its maddest
devotees to be instructively averaged, but mean-
while one ma.y remark that Henri Fournier, the
earliest of the “champion” French racing motorists,
has already passed out. Nineteen years ago Fournier
won the races from Paris to Bordeaux and Paris
to Berlin, and he subsequently made nerve-racking
journeys in England and America.
» * » *
“Dial Sighs”: One evening at Tel-eJ-
Kebir, to relieve the tedium of camp life, Ticli,
the saddler-sergeant’s offsider, bet his cobber that
lie would get a Gyppo who was busy bowing to
the dipping sun to do a little praying for him.
With the aid of a piastre Tich soon had the 6011
of Allah spmiking vigorously to the Deity the
prayer which Tich had set. After 10 minutes of
earnest invocation and much obeisance Tich stopped
the saieeda and gave him a half-piastre for back-
sheesh, still winning a hit off his cobber. The
words of the prayer were: “Five to one. Five to
one the field!”
THE MARTINET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat upon the wind-swept wharf, a bream-line in
his hand ;
Beside him was his bait, a piece of meat:
He fished for hours and hours, yet failed consistently
to land
llis prey, (lie fish which gambolled near his feet.
I proffered him the thing which ov'ry sportsman, gets
- -advice.
My criticism found expression thus:
“Your bait is wrong. Bream sneer at meat, how-
ever fresh, and nice,
And yours is old and black, and verminous.
“Tempt them with fresh-caught worms, or, better
still, an uncooked prawn:
Cast burle.v in their eyes to lure them near.
AA’ithout sueli ruses you will sit until to-morrow's
dawn
And do no good: that fact is crystal-dear.”
Then up and spake the fisherman, his voice raised
to a shout:
“To pamper .them 1 scornfully decline.
They’ll take the food I offer, or they'll damn well
go without.
You’d spoil ’em. That way never has been mine.”
N.S.W.
10-2-1.


EVERY MAN SHOULD KNOW HOW TO BOX.
Sooner or later YOU will have occa-
sion to defend yourself—every man
worth while DOES. When your time
comes, you’ll find yourself at a mighty
disadvantage unless you've had scien-
tific training in the useful art of self-
defence. You want to learn how to
.stop your opponent’s blows with your
arms —not with your face. You
wouldn’t like to get a thrashing,
would you?—especially from a man
smaller than yourself.
I Teach Boxing by Post.
My methods are simple, practical and thorough. Yon
cannot fail to progress rapidly, and will quickly
acquire a sound knowledge of the best moves of the
world’s most celebrated boxers. The course is very
complete, and deals with every punch, and the most
effective stop for it.
Y'ou’ll find my instruction a really pleasant occupa-
tion, which will while away many an enjoyable and
healthful hour.
Write for my interesting Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,’’
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc. Send your name and
address, with three stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
225 Municipal Buildings. Oxford Street (Cor. Crown Street), SYDNEY.
f
d
“SNOWY" BAKER K.O. BOX-
ING GLOVES, in two Grades,
16/6 and 22/6 per set of four
gloves, POST FREE. Every
pair personally selected and
guaranteed.
m
y
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World'
•IvWFtr
Shave in Comfort.
ďf
If you could shave your-
self in three minutes as
well as the Barber does,
wouldn’t you rather
always do so than waste
valuable time at a bar-
ber’s shop?
Then try a PERFORATED HONE.
It puts Easy Shaving within
reach of every man. Requires no
skill or experience to use. Give
six strokes or a hundred —you
can’t hurt your ra?or, for the
perforations PREVENT WIRE-
EDGE and automatically produce
a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading HARDWARE
MERCHANTS at 5/-, or POST
FREE 5/6 FROM
The Perforated Hone Co.
Dept. 11 —123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 Ci.P.O.,
MELBOURNP.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
>
h
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WALES—Arthur Lepiastrier & Co.. Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND—BIair, Reed & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
MALAY STATES, JAVA—Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
'kC
\y^
The “High Cost of Clothes
d
Need Not Worry
YOU.
You need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes out of keeping
with your income, since you can.
in actual fact, still obtain GOOD
Clothes to Order at Moderate Cost.
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED —at prices
to suit any pocket.
Featured in our present Display of
Suitings for Autumn is a Splendid
Selection of
All-Wool
Australian
Tweeds.
These Textures in Quality and Design
have nothing to lose by comparison
with materials made abroad, and it is
only by reason of the fact that they
have been made in Australia that we
are able to quote them in Honestly-
made Suits to order at pi-ices from
£4/10/- to £B/15/-
At these Figures they represent truth-
fully the Best-Suit Investment in Aus-
tralia to-day. Don't place that new-
suit order till vou’ve seen samples of
our ALL-WOOL, AUSTRALIAN-
MADE Materials.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln,
Stuart 8 Co.
PTY.
LTD. r
“ Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders St, Melbourne.


$Hf
S 5?
uHUW- v '
* ' of good tobacco is the means of
keeping it fresh and fragrant—an air-
tight Tobacco Jar. An equally potent
factor in the enjoyment one derives
from smoking, is the quality of the
pipe itself.
Every item obtainable in Farmer's Tobacco
Dept, is of tested merit—a fact borne out by
the satisfaction of increasing numbers of
regular patrons.
English Airtight Tobacco Jars, various sizes
and colorings 10/6
Farmer s briar Pipes, made in London; hand-
cut vulcanite mouthpieces ... ... 6/6
farmers' • SifdnQif
The SltoreJorMen
We pa xJ Girna 6c,
7io\ q.p.o.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUR business is primarily that of exporting American
chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash. chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
SO Maiden Lane, Holbrook Building:,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred.”
BUSH.BEACH S,GENT me.
NewYorX - San Francisco. U.S A.
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
In preparation for the Princelet’s visit
the Exhibition Building is to be furbished
up. Remembering a previous experience,
the trustees will probably get a clear under-
standing this time about the exact extent
of State help. When George and Mary
came 19 years ago as deputies for Edward
and Alexandra, the trustees had a little
reception which cost £4OO, and Peacock,
who was then Treasurer, stuck up the bill.
The matter came before the Assembly, and
Tummas Bent, who was an Exhibition
trustee, explained what happened. “George
Jenkins” —George was the Clerk of Parlia-
ments with the beautiful whiskers and w r as
helping to run the show —“popped in to see
L. L. Smith. George said, ‘How do, doc?
The Dook and the Dookess are coming up
to see you and your pals and it’s up to
you to do the thing properly.’ L.L.
replied, ‘Properly is the right word.’ ”
Tummas got no further. Boiling with indig-
nation, or professing to be, Peacock rose
from the Treasury Bench and rebuked
Brighton’s pet for having spoken slightingly
of the future King and Queen by calling
them the Dook and Dookess. Bent didn’t
turn a hair, and the House was only offic'ally
shocked. Peacock got his knighthood a
couple of years later.
Premier Lawson, to the great joy of his
State friends, got in with a message ahead
of Prime Minister Hughes so soon as it was
announced that the Renown had sailed.
Lawson entrusted to Agent-General Peter
Mcßride a greeting to the Princelet and an
assurance that he would be given a good time.
But what is one man’s good time is another
man’s boredom.
The A.N.A. made trouble because, the Aus-
tralian flag is almost neglected on national
celebration and other days. Hughes was out
of town, too busy or unapproachable, and
his sec. replied, assuring the irate Cornstalks
that Mr. Hughes shared their sentiments.
This was in December, and nothing but that
preliminary and “save-the-situation” memo
has been received. In the intervening weeks
the bit o’ rag which the French were proud
to honor as it floated mast-high on Amiens
Cathedral has been treated like a poor rela-
tion at the seat of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment.
The completion of Parliament House in
Spring-street, with a noble dome as an
Alfred Deakin memorial, is being discussed.
It would cost £IOO,OOO or thereabouts,
and it is suggested that some Australian
Croesuses might shell out liberally to supple-
ment Commonwealth and Victorian Govern-
ment contributions. As the Federal Parlia-
ment has paid nothing for rent, presumably
a dome donation would be a gift of goodwill
to the State Parliament as well as a tribute
to the dead Prime Minister. An endowment
for Melbourne Uni. is the other proposition
aired. Some sort of memorial seems cer-
tain.
Admiral Grant gave an imposing party
at Cliveden last week to let Melbourne mpet
Commodore DUmaresq. Gold lace and braid
made the naval seadogs gorgeous, and Sas-
siety put on its most expensive wear to
match. Food was served in the common
dining-room of the swagger flattery, but the
party was in Grant’s own quarters, with
an overflow on to the balconies and lawns.
Kitchener’s dog was patted by all hands.
The Admiral brought K. of K.’s water-
spaniel to Melbourne with him, and the
animal takes its airings with a burly sailor
on the other end of the leash.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine came with his lady
and daughter Beatrice. The Australia boys
were surrounded by adoring girls. Major-
General Sellheim and his wife and Chauvel
and his family party were in the crowd, with
Commander Boase and his lady and
Engineer-Commander Doyle. Toorak came
to a woman. The Manifolds, Garrans,
Emmertons and Mackinnons were there, and
Mrs. Willshire from Sydney brought
daughter Nona in her frilliest. The Mayoress
was in a copper-colored frock. Mrs. Fred
Payne got a smart effect with pale almond
green. Mrs. Maxwell Scott was bolstered
in a jumper dress, and her pearls were start-
ling.
The Harry Sargoods, back from summer-
ing at Mornington, plunged into the party
whirl with a frivol of their own. Wandai,
Toorak, wore all its frills, and Lorna Reid
gave a musical entertainment while tea was
handed round. The Curries, Rutter Clarkes,
Barretts and Larkings were in the crush.
The Myers fluffery is introducing to Mel-
bourne a fashion show calculated to educate
our womenfolk in the matter of color and
cost. During the first few days the demon-
strator counted among her patrons many
giddy young male things in their 57th spring.
In one breathless interlude, whilst some
irresistible undies were being dangled before
the audience, a self-possessed matron, dis-
daining argument, tapped her young man
of 60 or so on the shoulder conclusively.
He had been revelling in a perfect view
in a front seat. He departed in confusion.
There are tear-marks on this paper:—
There have been many sad affairs in Melbourne’s
social history, but nothing to equal that which
happened on H.M.A.S. Australia at an At Home last
week. The prizes of the Navy were taken possession
of by a select set, and the rest of us looked on with
the hungry eyes of the match-seller outside the cafe.
Some fled, without even a cup of tea, and vowed
that they would never, never accept another invita-
tion. The wife of one high-placed official felt the
strain so much that she fainted.
There is a bitter rumor circulating among
the Best People that a daughter of one of
Melbourne's nicest, newest, wealthiest fami-
lies will shortly leave for overseas to pick
up her prospective bridegroom at Reno, the
TJ.S. divorce-hatchery at which he is now
going through the throes of unmarriage.
The venerable Thomas Pockett, who owns
an international reputation for his chrysan-
themums, has just had a narrow escape
from deatli by lightning. When he retired
from his job as curator of the Malvern
Gardens he bought a place at Ileales-
ville. Here, while he was watching the pro-
gress of a storm, a bolt struck a sapling
beside which he was standing and threw
its splinters 40 yards. But, luckily, they
were thrown away from Pockett. or he
might have made a record as a citizen who
survived obliteration by lightning only to be
transfixed by stringy-bark javelins.
.Tolm Lang, having done some Red Cross-
ing overseas and tasted London in the
early summer, has sold up his South Yarra
establishment and is taking his family for
a long sojourn in England, where the two
boys are to be taught the raight things at a
public school. Lang himself swatted at law
while at Melbourne Uni., find the and sp' ,en l of
“the John Lang law library” was a feature
of the disruption at Overwells, lie made
but one attempt to enter public life: that
was when he, Arthur Robinson and the late
Henry Skinner nominated for a Leg. Coun-
cil seat. Then he “retired in favor of Mr.
Robinson” ; but, all the same, Skinner w r on,
and Lang’s self-immolation was' wasted.
In the new House of Reps. Sydney’s
yachtsman Walter Marks already looks
politely bored. He has been heard to won-
der, even at this early stage, how so many
of the chaps put in time.
Willie Watt took his little wife on a well-
earned sea-trip to England. Mrs. Billy
Hughes saw them off. Mrs. Watt is a little
fair slip of a thing with no taste for the
limelight.
Architect Muriel Stott, whose dad is Syd-
ney Stott, the man who made a fortune out
of shorthand, is off to the U.S. to extend
her knowledge of house-building. Her talent
has already been crystallised in several har-
moniously-designed dwellings in Melbourne’s
outer suburbs.
Irene O’Brien, elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
J. W. O’Brien, lately returned from Europe,
with a fine polish
on the rich mezzo-
soprano which had
been well trained in
Maoriland before she
took it abroad for
further culchaw. A
Warrnambool native,
Miss Irene is still
(as the Talma photo
shows) a typical
Australian girl, de-
spite her schooling
in Italy and Eng-
land, and a success-
ful ddbutontbe con-
cert platform i n
Dublin. She will
produce the Voice in
Melbourne, at the
Assembly Hall, on
Wednesday in Easter week, under Chappell
management.
Poet C. G. A. Colies, who is a bank-
manager in his spare time, has been shifted
to South Melbourne from the Haymarket
branch of the “Scottish,” and the other even-
ing his friends at the old stand crystallised
their regrets at his departure in a nice line
of domestic goods, with a cheque to boot.
Trade-joufnalist Elsuin accompanied his
bestowal of the keepsakes with suitable talk.
Architect Cedric Ballantyne has departed
for N’Yark to add some technique to his store
of Anglo* Australian building experience.
Ballantyne distinguished himself early in
life by marrying the dashing Ruby Bell, a
Gibsonesque beauty whose father, the late
Thomas Bell, was for long one of the land-
marks of old Malvern.
“The Revel of Pan” will cost a guinea
a h’had at St. Kilda Town Hall on April
16. The" Crivellis, Ballieux, de Bavays,
Clarkes and Fairbairns are backing up Ray
Whiting in organising the big jazz. The
orchestra is such a special affair that it will
run away with 70 guineas between nine and
four. The profits are going to the war
orphans, and most of the expenses will be
paid by the Naicest. The revel will be
masked and fancy-dressed. The craze of
the moment is to copy the costumes of
“Chu Chin Chow.” Some of our military
boys’ brides set this fashion.
There is a hideous new fashion which
demands the skirt to be gathered into elastic
at the ankles—or calf. It is reminiscent of
a Mid-Victorian idea in children's clothes.
Overdresses were banded below the knees,
and made every plump youngster look like
a bolster.
Mrs. Mills, who has had some big wins
with her horses, went in a sporty way to
Caulfield last race-day. She flew from Sale
to the racecourse in a nice limousine air-’bus.
Here is Tom Roberts, after 16 years’ ab-
sence from Australia. Roberts has spent
the few weeks since
his return buried in
the beloved bush,
transferring his re-
newed impressions to
canvas. These will
be shown at the end
of the month, along
with a collection of
60 or 70 canvases
brought from
abroad. The Sydney
Gallery is lending
one of his best-
known pictures; and
Trenchard, of Mel-
bourne, will lend
another. It was
hoped to get the
famous “Break-
away” from the
Adelaide Gallery, but there is some lion in
the path. Roberts likes testing his work
against white walls —an uncompromising
background—and his Melbourne show will
have that treatment.
There still are wise men in the law. One
was mentioned to Justice Hood in the
Divorce Court the other day. The lady said
her husband had quarrelled with her so
violently that she fled to her lawyer for
advice. He asked her what the trouble was
about, and she confessed that it was her
cooking. “He told me to buy a cookery-
book; and that was all I got for the fee,”
she mourned. And then apparently it didn’t
have the right recipes. At any rate, the
husband soon afterwards fled.
St. Pat.’s procession through the city
wasn’t so much a demonstration in honor
of the patron saint of Ireland as a street
exhibition of the soldiers of Hibernian birth
or descent who served abroad. It was, in
fact, a great military display, in which over
a dozen V.C.’s figured prominently, and a
smashing answer to the screech that the Aus-
tralian Patlanders stayed at home when the
guns were shooting. Incidentally, the occa-
sion served to show off the Vic. mounted
police and their horses, for there was a large
number of the force on duty. The Dust
Fiend, bribed, of course, by Deeper, Cabena
and Worrall, did his level best to make things
uncomfortable for those wearin’ the green,
and he succeeded. But never were cheers
bestowed more generously. It was a great
day entoirely.
Melbourne citizens will soon have to take
in each other’s washing, not for a living, but
to get clean things to wear. One after
another the private laundries are going out of
business owing partly to the keen competi-
tion of “charitable” laundries and partly to
labor and fuel troubles. Very shortly Ah
Goon and Suey Doo will be the only rivals
left to fight the “charities” for Melbourne’s
dirty linen.
Adelaide takes stock of the week: —
Oapt. Clare, this State’s ex-Naval' Commandant,
has acquired Japan’s Order of the Rising Sun. Eng-
land made him a C.M.G. some time ago.
Journalist Edith Abbott, of the Register, is off
for a trip to England with an honorary commission
to inquire into matters concerning education and
immigration of domestic servants —if she can find
any. She was farewelled at the May dub, with
Mrs. McKain and Edith Aird as joint-hostesses.
Verbrugghen’s success has inspired Us to try to
do likewise, and Dr. Harold Davies is advertising
for fiddle and. other players for “the South Australian
Orchestra.” The Brewster Jones Concert at the
Town Hall —the first of this season —was packed, and
it looks as though Adelaide is going to earn some
of the reputation it is always assuring itself it has
for being a music-lover.
Songstress Ivy Philips leaves this week for Lon-
don to study with Mrs. Bryceson Trehearne.
Tlie Weigalls are booked to leave London on May
1, bringing with them as A.D.C. Capt. Somerset.
He’ll be the first imported genthelp we’ve had since
the declaration of war sent Galway’s staff back to
England.
The Birdwoods have gone. He was at the Port
Adelaide races on Saturday with the Mayoral Moul-
dens, and both of them, with the Murrays and every
civic, political and military or naval official we
could muster, were at the pantomime in the evening.
Lady Birdwood came with Miss Murray to a tea
given by the Mayoress in her rooms at the Town
Hall, where Ivy Philips and Mr. Bermiiigham sang,
and the room was fragrant with early autumn roses.
“The season” is getting in early. Already there
have been teas and lunches innumerable and a wed-
ding or two, and a ball is booked for early April.
New and prospective brides have been responsible for
some of the frivolities —among them (the p.b.’s not
the f.’s) Miss Squires, who is to marry the Frank
Fishers’ only son. The Law Smith-Hawkes wed-
ding was at the Cathedral on Tuesday, with a
reception afterwards at the Frank Makins’ house in
Brougham-place.
Our D.A.A.G., Lieut.-C6l. Logan, is to go to N. S.
Wales as chief inspector of Light Horse. His billet
here falls to Lieut.-Col. Wynter.
The week has brought us two exhibitions of pic-
tures —James Ashton’s, at his studio, and a Lionel
Lindsay show, opened by Mayor Moulden at
Preece’s rooms. The former is largely the result ot
the painter s recent trip to N. S. Wales—glimpses
of the Blue Mountains and of the harbor and coast.
Lindsay’s buyers have so far been mostly lured by
his Spanish pictures.
The city Town Hall is over half a century old, and
much too small for the public functions it is
supposed to house; but rebuilding is out of the
question at current prices. Frugal Adelaide has
therefore remembered that the place had not even
been thoroughly painted since 1897. Coulter, of
Melbourne, has been called in to apply his know-
ledge of decorative work to the interior walls.
Lieut. Ron Bruce Smith and Felice Hig-
gins have an appointment at the altar this
week. The marriage is listed as one of the
frilliest.
Art-director Bernard Hall’s eldest boy,
Basil, sometime of the Digger Artillery, has
married Nell Nicolls, a Welsh girl from
Rhavader. The pair walked the plank at
St. George’s, Malvern, the ancient church
where various relatives of the bridegroom
have helped to swell the offertory for many
years. Basil’s mother was one of the Shuter
girls, of an old Malvern family with a useful
civil, naval and military record. Mrs. George
Higgins is a Shuter aunt.
Dr. Roger St. Clair Steuart was married
on March 10 to Audrey Lascelles, and his
old place at the top of the eligibles list is
vacant. The wedding was heavily gilt. The
bride’s wealth was indicated in her dress—
heavy ropes of gold on ivory crSpe satin,
with gold horseshoes hanging to the ribbons
of her orchid bouquet. She indulged in the
full complement; of wedding detail —satin
train, veil, orange-blossom wreath and all.
Little I’am Crowtber, who looked like a
powder-puff in tulle, carried the train. Mrs.
Lascelles hostessed the after-party at Talla-
x’ook, the family’s town house. Jean Man-
deville from the Apple Island (she is a niece
of the G.-G.) came over to be bridesmaid,
with Cecily and Hilda Lascelles. The trio
were in the blue, mauve and pink of hy-
drangeas and carried sheafs of the big blooms.
Dr. Steuart took his bride off to Sydney,
and the company came back to Tallarook
in the evening for a dance,
Mrs. Peterson, widow of the late Profes-
sor, is exhibiting a large oil paintinsr.
“Christ Before Pilate,” at Bernard’s gal-
lery. Larger areas of canvas have been
covered by amateurs with less satisfying
results.
A large easy-to-please audience sat out the
Weber-Rice physical-culture demonstration
at the Town Hall. The magnificent Clar-
ence hopped, skipped, jumped, wrestled and
posed with his customary agility and ease,
while partner Rice lifted heavy weights and
broke nothing but records. Some remark-
able cases of partially- and wholly-cured
paralysis, curvature and neurasthenia were
shown, and one example of “how to be happy
though short of a leg” was particularly
interesting. The culture girls were disap-
pointing in that they lacked grace and
rhythm. Unbecoming bloomers did not
improve their appearance. A weight-whirl-
ing turn was given by Weber and two of
his several children; the kiddies caused
amusement by waving hands to the gallery
and calling out a greeting to their grandma.
Australian publisher McCubbin is about
to launch a high-class monthly dealing with
literature and art. Its editor is already
chosen and comes from the University. The
Max Meldruin book is a proof of what
McCubbin can do in the art line. For the
literature department of the new venture a
number of bright young pens are being
mustered.
In the note on the Hug divorce case last
week the name of the co-re. was given as
Scott. It should have been Steele.
The Speck’s Education Department took
a jump ahead the other day when it decided
to make domestic science compulsory for
girls in the high schools. Mina and Florrie
will, after this year, have to learn what
the potato is made of along with the mystic
qualities of the letter w. Premier Lee is
no doubt responsible. That good blacksmith
says that the woman who is able to look
after her husband’s digestion is doing her
bit towards soothing the general after-war
cantankerousness of the community—is, in
fact, a sort of unofficial Court of Universal
Conciliation.


t «
BLACK .„a WHITE
»»
an
im
if
®a
m
m
-
w
m
m
ills
II
■ f:--
M
II
■ :<
m
iSi
it
■
m
1“
7
wuttemm
.....
-M*
avMMMMtui
: '.*•
*
mm
mjM
• '
■
'
m
y j£jim
- V,'
...
;
'
PHH
r:
m
1
SA:, «T«*IT:
n
*
'
qm
■
i
WMm
HI
. u
lli
..
'
:
*
■I
"' '■'
•■
,
.
it®
: ;
I
V'V-y:
-
Wmm
.....
I
V
iMfl
.
tv-
; -i,
*
m ■
“ ; V
is
:
H
:•• ‘ '
..
u
'
- *
Mm
m
4 ■"
® -®
mk
■§&* ■
m
8 • ?
• *i
y.;'
H
. "
SSi
« :
: i
;..
m
r
&
3®
J £ ;
/■
s
Si
. .-®
■
: -v -
7®,
f§ ‘‘ J ‘ ®
I
&
S 3
“YORKSHIRE LIGHT INFANTRY.”
The WHISKY of RENOWN
Obtainable in
BOTTLES
HALF-BOTTLES
FLASKS
HALF-FLASKS
JAMES


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
ďf
CHAMPAGNE
Qwries Heidsiecfc
d
ďf
'JttrlesHridsitfJt
Reims
(y s****
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Tuthills are the Best
for Replacements.
Tuthill Guaranteed Springs are made
for every make of American Car. Quite
apart from the fact of “the guarantee
against centre breakage for ever” or
any other kind for twelve months,
their super qualities impart an added
comfort, all the more appreciated be-
cause their cost is no greater than
that of the ordinary spring. Garage
owners recommend Tuthills because
they increase Garage Goodwill, which
naturally follows satisfactory service
to the motorist.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett 8 Barkeil Limited
“The Traders’ Service House.”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
ityyait%
L
- "*.170.
The finest and strongest
silk threads the markets of the
world afford, woven with th utmost
care—no ‘ weighting” of the fibre, no
adulterations this explains the
wearing quality of Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves—the gloves sold with a
guarantee.
V.F. 21
LATE SOMMER
J,
BRINGS NEW
WITCHERIES
to the House of Shave
—the Mecca to which
all women turn in their
devotion to fashion. It
is enough that mg
lady desires it —Shave
mil express her every
mood of the Autumn
in goums of the most
exquisite design. Be-
cause of the Shave
model-fitting system it
is not required that
she spend tedious hours
in fitting.
Visits to Sydney and
Adelaide twice yearly.
Dates on request.
SHAVE,
Ladies' Tailors, Centreway,
Dressmakers, Melbourne.
WE INVITE YOU TO
OUR NEXT DISPLAY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The villagers of Narembura got as many
thrills from the T. J. Dalton-Warn wedding-
on Saint Pat’s Day as they would out of
a many-reeled movie. The little church
of St. Leonard was filled hy the attendants
at early mass, who were awed by the trail-
ing white satin draperies, sprinkled with
crystal-embroidered shamrocks, and the point
de gaze lace of the bride, and the grandeur
of the elderly bridegroom's Consular uni-
torm. The real panne hat of the pink-
lrocked bridesmaid helped the bride’s dainty
slippers to make hearts beat enviously. The
ceremony was safely negotiated, but' during
the Nuptial Mass the congregation ivas
thrown into confusion by the bridegroom’s
sudden collapse. Best-man Stanley Fraser
and Dr. Power rushed to the rescue, and
the terrified bride (who had not even signed
her new name) was motored off to Wheat-
leigh, there to await her husband’s coming
by ambulance. Father Sherrin performed
the marriage ceremony, and the ’grooms’
cousin. Father P. Dalton, S.J., who lately
arrived from England, celebrated the mass.
Last Thursday Noel Edmond, son of a
former editor of The Bulletin, took unto
himself a strikingly-picturesque bride, Miss
r ;,p ra l ChalcrafL of Avoca-street, Randwick.
Ihe bride s late father ran, and her brother
stUl runs, a large printery, so there is ink
in both families. The event took place at
iitt-street Congregational Church, where
the Lev. Cocks did all that was needful
without a hitch, like the veteran he is The
bride s get-up was of white georgette with
a veil of Brussels netj a shower bouquet and
accessories. A younger sister on each side,
Hilda Cbalcraft and Dorothy Edmond in
crepe de Chine gave support. A youngest
sister, Mollie Edmond, had to be left
out for lack of another Chalcraft
maiden to match her. Brother Fred
gave the bride away, and the faint-
ing bridegroom was supported by Stan
Hatts, a returned warrior, and Karl King
who would have been the same only he suf-
t “i® contumely of repeated rejections.
After the usual comestibles at the Went-
worth the married pair went for the usual
South Coast run in the usual motor-car with
the usual shoe dragging behind.
A sign of the strenuousness of politics
A letter was pushed into the bride’s hand
immediately after the ceremony. It was the
first one bearing her married name, and
came from parties unknown. The contents
urged her to mark Ephraim Blenkinsop first
on her ballot-paper, and wished her much
happiness as a side-issue.
Our Proudest Primary Product lifted its
ivooHy head on Saturday at Sutton Forest,
when Connie Frances Johnson, only bud of
Mrs. Bell Johnson, of Gunning and Sum-
merlees, Sutton Forest, married Donald Rov,
heir of the Boombah Ross Munros, of St
George (Q.). Connie made the usual threats
before Pastor Corlette in All Saints’, the
little old church with the ivy-grown porch
(same as you see. in the movies), its interior
a f 0 dahlias and Michaelmas daisies
and floral wedding-bells. Besides the family
diamond necklet the bride was clothed in
white satin that finished in a pink-lined train
and a pearl tassel, and her veil was of Lim-
erick lace, a treasure of the ’groom’s mother.
sistc : r and the bride’s cousin
Winifred bridesmaided in pink georgette, the
n- caught in at the hem giving the
effect of harem trousers. Above the waist-
line they were bronze tissue covered, with
pink satin coats —altogether they looked
rather like a corner of the Balk.an States
or an Armistice celebration— and they fin-
ished the charming anachronism of their
costumes with Queen Anne posies of pink
and blue. Nearly 200 guests were enter-
tained at Summerlees, Mrs. Johnson sustain-
mg the strain of hostess-ship in a grey dress
and a black velvet hat. The georgette frock
worn by the bridegroom’s mother, Mrs Ross
srey, while Lady Davidson, who
brought Sir Walter along to the party/wore
black satin with Chantilly lace. Wool and
” r^ ln -\T an c! Irtrll?y 1 rtr 11 ? y fr° m Queensland. Victoria
and N. S. Wales stood together; and there
Ch!’isti?s ddinS preSents enou 8 h to stock
Submarine J 7 was left to look after her-
self on Saint Patrick’s Day, when command-
ing-officer Lieut. John Drinkwater R N
the rr ßvro^ dl St C pf- ar y? uir ’
the Bjion St. Clair Muirs, of Cremorne
The ceremony was performed at St. Peter’s'
Neutral Bay, by Canon Wilton, whose
address was based upon the text: “I could
not love thee, dear, the less, Loved I not
honor more.” Brother officers from vari-
ous subs, came to form a guard of honor,
and the crew of J 7 drew the newly-weds’ car
(with its floating white ensign) from church
to Warringah Hall, where the compliments
were passed. Bride gave her promise in
layers of pink georgette, silver lace and tulle.
Pale-blue georgette with silver tissue and
French flowers, and hats combining all three,
adorned the two bridesmaids. The small
train-bearers frolicked around in white net
and coral-pink roses. Lieut. Ollerhead, R.N.,
came over from the Base to look after the
ring. The ’groom’s late father used to be
British Consul at Naples.
Hilda Love, whose dad is James Love, of
Townsville —and he has been selling war-
horses to the Indian Army for years and
years—married Flag-Lieutenant Conway
Lyon, of the Australia, last Mofiday. She
did it at St. James’s in a frock carrying
a fortune in pearl-trimming down its front
panel. The bridesmaids wore mauve geor-
gette. The Navy formed the guard of honor,
and the Wentworth harbored the double-"
decked wedding-cake with its model of the
Australia on the conning-tower. Mrs. E. L.
Robinson (sister of the bride) helped dad
to entertain. Mother died some years ago.
Aide Lamb and Effie Stephen have posted
their entry for the Matrimonial Stakes to
be run on April 14.
Marjorie Street sends word of her engage-
ment to Stewart Richardson; he is still
another who was here on A.D.C. work.
Marjorie in the not-so-long-ago went to
London to live with Lady Poore; and the
young man and she fell in love as a pleasant
interlude to their war-work. He w-as in
Australia before the war as a Denman
aide. He is a large, loose-limbed, cheerful
Scotchman, with a passion for violent danc-
ing. He put more collars out of action dur-
ing a ball than any other man in Australia.
Ihe family was somewhat impoverished, but
its fortunes were restored by the marriage
of the 14th baronet to the daughter of a
wealthy Nova Scotian. The present baronet,
brother of Miss Street’s fiancA is best known
as the husband of Lady Constance, the
bare-footed society dancer.
The marriage of Barbara Gordon and
Lionel (“Black Sandy”) Jaques is scheduled
to occur as this week’s Bulletin goes out.
Ihe function will be cheered by the victory
in Eastern Suburbs of Harold (“Sandy”)
Jaques. Both young men were severely
wounded in the war.
, Lieut. Quick, of H.M.A.S. Encounter, who
manned pretty war-widow Mrs. Joseph Mar-
shall, at St. David’s Cathedral in Hobart, has
tt ever P en . f° r black-and-white work.
Hobart felt quite a thrill to see the wreath
aloft on the Encounter; for this was the
first naval wedding it had had since the war
carried our ships away.
Marie Fitzgerald (Ara Gerald on the con-
cert programmes), whose dad is in the
unsteady Ministry, cables that she has mar-
ried her tenor, John Clarke, in New York
He has been raising a successful flute in
Monsieur Beaucaire” in that money-centre •
and she is to appear in opera there in Sep-
tember. The pair were fellow-toilers at the
studio of Borghi of Milan. They contem-
plate a song-bird flight to Australia towards
the end of the year.
Christine Crichton-Imrie is the latest bit
of Maoriland with the Sydney stamp who
goes to make London a cheerier place.
Already she has emptied many a fountain-
pen in the interests
of Australian indus-
tries, and the good
work is to be con-
tinued in the Aus-
tralian information
bureau of a firm asso-
ciated with the Lon-
don office of Gibson,
Battle. Her princi-
pal job will be to
write, talk and sell
Australian goods,
and who more fit
than the woman who
has lived among
Australian factories
for the past five
years, and has an
intimacy with them
dating back 10? Miss
Crichton-Imrie has done work on almost
every Maoriland paper, her widest experi-
ence being gained on the West Coast, when the
entire stall—editor, printer and devil—being
devastated with measles, she once played a
lone hand in issuing the weekly edition. The
Makura is the address for the farewell
bouquets.
Sisters of the inkpot met at the Mary
Elizabeth to say good-bye and good luck to
Christine Crichton-Imrie. Besides roses
and cactus-dahlias and tiny personal gifts,
the afternoon’s guest received a beautifully-
tooled leather writing-case and a pen with
a resplendent red quill from the pooled
pennies.
These are cold days for sister and nurse,
scores of whom are “resting.” Hundreds
have come back from the war to find that
hundreds more have been trained while they
were away; in some instances the period of
training was shortened to push them into
uniform. There would thus have been a
plethora of caps and capes in any case; but
just when the troopships were coming in
fastest the A.T.N.A. in Sydney advanced
nurse’s fee to £4 4s. a week, and, whether it
is a fair thing or not, the result has been to
slacken the demand. Last month a matron
was wanted for the Maitland Hospital, one
of the largest in the State outside Sydney,
to succeed matron Skuthorpe, retired after
12 years’ service. Though only a shade over
three guineas a week was offered for a posi-
tion carrying very large responsibilities,
there were 60 applicants, half of them mili-
tary nurses, and many of them decorated.
The dweller out back is to have the news
of the world delivered to him, so the Vic-
toria League and Bush Book Club have
decided. At a meeting at Stanway House
a number of members pledged themselves
to post papers and periodicals to addresses
supplied by the secretary. Lady Davidson,
who presided, led off with a promise to un-
load the weekly edition of the Times on to
some starving soul in the mulga. The Cul-
len lady was responsible for the idea of cast-
ing this literature abroad, so that the coun-
tij may. know about the ’orrors of the city,
and incidentally the fashions and bargain
sales.
Laurence Godfrey Smith’s recital drew
a long line of cars to the Conservatorium.
It was not a usual Conservatorium audience
better coiffured, but not so well behaved,
and the one-sheet programmes crackled an
accompaniment all the evening to the pianist’s
Hying fingers. Some Chopin, Handel’s Fugue
and Variations (Brahms), with captivating
morsels by Palmgren. were among the finelv-
played numbers. Mrs. Goossens sang Folk
hongs from Alsace-Lorraine, charming in
their daintiness. The soprano was in black
tulle and jet, with a spot of cheerfulness on
the corsage, of jade.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener was one of the
best-known workers at the Soldiers’ Wei-
come in the Cathe-
dral grounds, where
her apple-pies were
a famous institution.
On the day lately
when the Welcome
closed, one of the
men at the back of
the room made his
way forward. In his
hands he carried a
large bunch of pink
roses—a slight token
from the Diggers
who had used the
shelter to “the lady
who made the apple-
pies.” and who was
npver too busy to
cut up his dinner for
a man who had the
use of only one hand.
Tremayne, at Kirribilli, which for many
years has known the vicissitudes of a “gen-
teel” boarding-house, has been acquired by
the Y.W.C.A. as a hostel. Originally a de-
lightful old home set in charming grounds
with a tennis-court and flat roof swept by
the high winds that blow off Neutral Bay
and Cremorne, its front gate opens on to
Carabella-street —one of the prettiest of
North Sydney—and its grounds on the other
side run down to Ellermang-avenue, as yet
unprofaned by boarding-house or flats. Its
neighbors are a Milson home in a beautiful
garden, the Loretto Convent, Edmund Bar-
ton’s old home, and a jacaranda that bursts
upon the Spring twilights like the whisper of
an old song.
The Osterley pushed off on Saturday in
spite of the cables of colored streamers moor-
ing her to the Quay. She was crammed
from bow to stern, and carried four pairs of
episcopal gaiters and a candidate for a
bishop’s apron. Besides Sydney’s own rosy-
cheeked shepherd, Goulburn, Adelaide and
Bunbury sent their heads to wrestle in the
Lambeth Conference. Nora and Isabel
Wright left with the party to acquire the
English polish so necessary to the daughters
of an Australian bishop. Daughter Mar-
jorie, having already made her curtsey to
George, remains in the background of New-
castle.
Sara Allgood, who finally and regretfully
has torn herself away from Australia, drop's
a line to say “God Bless Sydney !” and also
to tell with pride how brother-in-law G. H.
Moir, who was London editor of the Man-
chester Guardian and author of several
books, of which his “Modern English Litera-
ture” is perhaps the best known, has been
decorated with the order of Michael and
George in recognition of his war-work.
Lady Dalmeny, who was divorced by her
husband (Lord Rosebery’s son and heir) a
few weeks ago for desertion, has re-married.
They generally do. Her new venture, Cap-
tain Bob Brassey, is a son of Albert Brassey,
whose brother owned the Sunbeam and
“governed” Victoria.
Mrs. A. M. loung, a good-looking war-
widow, now in Sydney, is the heroine of
a cause celebre which has provided a stead’
income to some leading London barristers in
the last three years. She had a dispute
with the committee of the Ladies’ Imperia
Club, and was asked to attend on a given
day and explain herself. As she didn’t her
name was erased from the list of members
Her response to this astonishing piece of
feminine Czarism was a writ. Marshall Halt
—the distinguished brother of Australia's
old musical friend—led for her, and Hnmi>
Williams for the Club. She lost; and imme-
diately appealed. On this hearing she has just
got damages against the committee, and an
order requiring her reinstatement as a
member. She is travelling with Miss Good
win, who on her mother’s side is a Spooner
( Spoonerisms” were Oxford’s most popular
form of humor at the beginning of the cen
t i up y)». a n <i is related, in consequence, to the
Archbishop Wright family.
Bertie Kelly got back from England in
time to record his vote. He is one of dm
“bosses” of N. S. Wales Nationalism. Tom
the son and heir, has been settled at Eton
which lias already educated four Kelly*
including “F. 5..” the greatest sculler Oxford
ever knew. Mrs. Kelly is returning with
the other children at the end of the year.
The Pacific Mansions, please! That’s the
new tram stop for Sydney Hospital’s nurses
The girls don’t much care for it, but the
’eads have bought the property, and there
you are. So ridiculous to object when there's
a nice, clear stretch of Domain before your
front door, and Crown-street just around the
corner, and the fine old historic address of
Woolloomooloo to go on your letterheads, and
a nice tram ride every time you are coming
off or going on duty.
From March 30 until April 1 the Mother-
craft and Infant Welfare Exhibition will
pervade Sydney Town Hall, and the organ-
isers of Baby Week want you and the
other fellow to foot the milk-oh’s bill for
many a long day to come. Australia has the
finest babies in the world, and it can’t afford
to lose one of them through neglect. Dur-
ing Baby Week every woman can learn
more about motherhood than old Dame
Nature will ever whisper to her. Lady
Davidson declares the Children’s Welfare
open at 3 p.m. at the Town Hall on the
30th instant.
Nellie Stewart has started classes ill
dramatic art at Mrs. Slapoffski’s studio,
And who more capable than our sweet Nell'/
She is specialising with children, and already
several show promise of becoming Bern-
hardts or Duses.
On April 35 the committee of the Ilyde
Home for Incurables will hold a flower mar-
ket in the vestibule of Her Majesty’s. No
institution is more worthy of help than this;
and the committee -hopes that besides buy-
ing its flowers and cakes, friends will bring
gifts to keep the stalls full.
The Makura brings home to the William
Sandfords their youngest son, Esk. who got
into khaki in time for the New Guinea
expedition. Discharged when that job was
done, he made for Blighty and joined up
with the air forces. Now he is a squadron
commander (which means a major) in the
regulars, with a decoration for experimental
work, and comes on his first long furlough
since acquiring wings.
The Ivor McCrays returned by the last
boat from ’Frisco, after about nine
months of Java, Nippon and California. He
is a son of Uncle Sam, but has three sons
born in Australia, and a fourth who arrived
in the movie centre of Los Angeles some
years back.
Mrs. Ivenelm Dormer, one time Toohey, is
making her way back to her husband’s plan-
tation at Nairobi, in East Africa, round
which lions do roar at eventide.
Bishop Radford, of Goulburn, goes to the
Lambeth conference with a substantial
cheque in his pocket from the laymen and
clergy of his diocese. Mrs. Radford accom-
panies her lord ; also the little Radfords.
“Haddon Hall,” the light opera which
Sydney Grundy helped. Arthur Sullivan to
write, has two performances this week by
the Rand wick Musical Society at the Coro-
nation Hall, Bondi Junction. The funds
to benefit are those of Scarba, the Wel-
fare Home for Women and Children at
Bondi, and the Randwick Relief Society.
Saturday is the only chance left to -see the
opera, which is stage-managed by J. Jamie-
son and business-managed by J. C. Leete.
Lady Vernon is played by Mrs. Leete. a
Tivoli star of Harry Rickards’s day. The
little lady became better known during the
years of war for patriotic work and unfail-
ing success with chocolate wheels.
Zelie Bristow, of Fort-street High School,
won the John West medal and Grahame
Prize for general proficiency at the recent
matriculation examination. Only two other
girls have wrested this honor from male
students. A few other distinctions have
come the remarkable girl’s way—the Bow-
man Cameron scholarship, the Fairfax prize
and the Queen Victoria scholarship.


d
"LINES OF WHITE IN
A SULLEN SEA”
ONLY in such songs as
Tosti’s "Good-bye” is the
wonderful tone-control of the Beale
Player-Piano fully appreciated.
Here is a composition whose sub-
tleties tax many pianists’ technique.
Not because of its complexities of fingering
--rather the reverse. Its simplicities are its
pitfalls. To know how a composition should
be interpreted is not equivalent to actually
securing that interpretation.
In a Beale are combined a technique and tone
which render you master of the most difficult
songs. Your control of every shade of ex-
pression is absolute.
You play exactly as you wish to play.
T he better musician you are the more you 'will
appreciate the C Beale.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
Showrooms:
333 George St., Sydney.
Factory:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale.
BRANCHES
N.S.W Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulbum,
Wagga. Victoria: Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania:
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia:
John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. West Australia : J. A. Thompson
Co., Ltd. Perth.
BEALE 6i CO. (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane , Maryborough ; Townsville ;
Rockhampton ; Mackay; Cairns.


Learn to Draw.
There's Money
VSI j Pen.
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
"THEßE'S
MONEY
IN
TlfE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal .Vchool of Drawing,
191 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
jiMljlilUllllimail?/fefi^»Ti&nnninimnrnsiii|
Motor 8 A | Bicycles
for Solo ?& Sidecar
You can take any kill or
the roughest road with ease
and comfort when ridb g a
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle or
combination. The special
advantages and efficiency
of the
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
make this machine one of the
most economical models on the
road. The comfort and reliability
of the B.S.A. Motor Bicycle under
all conditions have gained univer-
sal popularity and unequalled
praise for its services.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE SHOWING
MACHINES IN ACTUAL COLOURS.
•
/ r V r
C ' } - J CTv'VO!
K
U
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing 8.5.4. Co., Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
BENNETT 8 WOO]) LTD., Pitt Street. Sydney.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
If any illustration- app aring in 'j.un
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will nuote yon price for it.
PLATINUM at
£3O to £36 an ounce.
We desire to BUY in any quantities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
m
[ THE
“LONGREACH"
RIGHT FROM
THE JUMP
This Longreach Saddle
is Comfortable as an
Old Shoe.
It needs no lengthy breaking-in period, and
you will be pleased with it from . the
moment you buy it. See how the flap is
sewn direct on to the* seat., doing away with
the usual skirt and giving a narrow non-
chafing grip. The pads are another great
feature —they are set very high up, almost
level with the head, and along the rider’s
thighs, giving the utmost security. The tree
is our best quality “Fouright,” with steel
stirrup-bars, and the fittings are bevelled
leathers, folded girth and solid-nickel stirrup?.
, SEND YOUR
HEIGHT & WEIGHT WITH ORDER.
£l4/15
Freight Free for Cash
to any Port or Railway
Station in N.S.W.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG CATALOGUE SHOWING 70 SADDLES, INCLUDING
THE “WINTON,” THE “BOULIA,” THE “KEMP” AND “BULLETIN.”
393
George St.,
Sydney.
V-lA
\ />
All
You’ll Still Smell the Dip
in the Wool!
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there —and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin-free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
‘Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stores—everywhere
Manufactured by A. \ICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
38
St
X6B.—Latest novelty Real Morocco
Lady’s Handbag, with numerous com-
partments, centre purse and nickel frame,
leather-lined. Fitted with purse and
mirror. As illustrated.
Size Osin, x B|in.
„ B|in x BJin.
.. 7-Jin. x 7Jin.
~ 7in. x 7in.
The same bag can
Leather,
Size 9-Jin. x BJin.
„ 7in. x 7in.
Price 55/- each
Price 49/0 „
Price 42/- „
Pricp 37/6 „
he had in Suede
Price 55/- each.
Price 42/- „
Also in Suede Crocodile Grain,
Size 9Jin. x SJin. Price 50/- each.
EXPERT MAILORDER CO.,
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT G.P.O. Box 2570.
ONLY address— THE AMERICAN BAG STORES,
Strand Corner, Pitt Street; and Sydney Arcade, George Street.
The whole World has heard of
Sir Ross Smith, the Dauntless Aviator
—But it will be news to many to learn that when repairs had to be effected
at Ipswich Workshops to the Rolls-Royce motor, the steel chosen for the
important job of making the connecting rods was
“An Eagle on a Globe*' Brand
S.D. 21 Chrome Vanadium High Tensile Steel,
—the preferred Axle Steel, because of its 66.5 tons per square inch tensile
strength.
Supplied in round bars, from 1 to 3 inches in diameter.
Full particulars on request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Makers of Ultra Capital
370-381 Kent St., Sydney.
261 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle,
John Iteid anil Nt-pncws, Brisbane.
Fanl and Cray, LUI., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
e
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ko notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. _
Clyde: But there was a better discussion
of the blinded soldier some weeks ago... .R. 5.8.:
For the nth time, the contributor who jambs his
type-written lines so close together that the shadow of
a drought-stricken ghost couldn’t be squeezed in gives
himself list, in the handicaps... .Syd C.: No, that
was a Queensland man... .Hermit: Perhaps, if you
could put it in one-fourth the space....P. Pin: Yes,
but what relation does the cost of materials bear
to the total bill? Eight-inch: You misunderstand
that military man, who has written acres to urge
that the man with actual war experience (he has
had it himself) should have preference. His point
is that, as the law stands, the man who slays at
home is within his rights, and is doing all the
law says he should do; wherefore the law should
either be amended or the man who stayed at home
should not be penalised. His own view, of course,
is that the law should be amended.... Mid C.: No.
he is not on the staff Helena C.: The bouquets
this paper has hurled at regulars, from White and
Chauvel down to the youngest of the Duntrooners,
would stock a flower-shop. But it has attacked the
out-of-date Permanent Army system, with its 19t.h
century pay-sheets and its absence of pensions; and
it has pointed out that the promotion of brilliant
regulars is blocked by incompetent limpets who
should have been in retirement years ago. They
are the “discredited” members of the Army who
would be out of it under a reformed system....
Percy A. F.: The muses would weep over it.. . .N.A.:
“Jimmy’s Crime” has nothing in it Tunga: Not
a hint of promise C.C.M.: Put some life into the
yarn... .Traviata: It has been done too often. This
spoils work that is distinctly hopeful... .P.W.8.:
Verse far too rugged... .A.8.G.: You don’t make it
interesting... .1.U.M.: A bit too mad... .5.H.8.:
Says nothing new and nothing we 11... .D.G.T.;
They’d all be nodding before that sermon was
finished... .C.E.H.: Doesn’t move U5....A.V.: A
discordant yell (we don't mind that) which says
nothing new (and that is fatal)... .Barney Broken:
The sonnet needs more than that. Choice of words,
melody and moving thought up to the final line
are all necessary... .F.C.C.: Well enough done, but
not enough marrow in it Eric R.: Wants to he
better... .Wan Doer: Better turn your attention to
something else. .. .A.B.C. (Yerong Creek): No use.
....Oliver B.: You have caught the very essence
of the imperial spirit:—
... . A.E.G.: “Station Master” doesn’t make a yarn.
Daisy R.: Never heard of it; and, on the
quotation, it doesn’t seem a cause for heartbreak
Rob. F. B.: Don’t know. Write 1 to a good book-
seller ; it’s his job.... Owen M.: Doesn’t catch the
thrill... .Richie: Verse poor and theme worked to
death... .Jackie B.: You’re the first to rhyme
“weather” with “heaven” and- “wonder” with
“Holman” The Moralist: One dainty stanza: —
Splendid ray, lighting my desolation, your reply
Condemning, still hope whispers “Not good-bye.”
Confessedly deserving of your scorn.
Because the Potter did ill-use my clay,
And shame-faced thoughts revive each cheery morn,
Resolving to be worthy all this day.
E.S.B.: We don’t reprint, but even if we did
we wouldn’t... .Klink: Not up by some distance
H.M.C.: The verse is pretty good for 17, but not
printable... .J.H. (Mount Garnet): Deserves better
telling. Try., . .Doe T.: The material is there ; don’t
jerry-build with it... .E.M.J.: “White Feather” moves
stiffly. It would make a good paragraph... .Ignaw:
“Romance” fails... .L.C.R.: The verse wriggles like
the snake it tells of and flops occasionally like a
sack of blood. Terrible* stuff to flop, blood ; especi-
ally when you put it in a sack Lena W.: It isn’t
strong enough to get there Ex-M.L.A.: Defeated
here too C.N.B.: Nothng there Ursa Minor:
It’s lame verse and it lacks point Frank B.:
“Nocturne” is poor verse... .B.C.B.: Send them
to America... .John S.: “Sweet the music as the
waters lathe an island.” Wouldn’t it be sweeter
if the ocean grindstoned a continent? D. Fitz:
Not up Nidgera: No earthly use. (P.S. —We’ll
take it on ourselves to say no heavenly, either.)
H.C.J.: Commonplace... .C.R.D.: You want to
know if it could be improved. Try burning it....
W.P.J.: What? When? How? Let it go, any-
way :—
I’ve been thinking of a statue,
I here beg leave to state —-
One that would come at you
Every time you’re running late:
When the Parson pulls the trigger,
It moves the saint’s outrigger,
And the hand shoots from the'figure *
And stretches out the plate.
. ...C.S.O.: Too long and thin Wagerette: Adver-
tised stake money of Eclipse Stakes (Eng.), £10,000 ;
of (English) Derby, £6500; of Melbourne Cup,
£6000.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.G.P.: No humor in it... .H.M.L.: Evidently a
bright youngster. Refuse to issue any prophecies,
but if she is interested buy her some tuition....
S.R.: Stiff and solemn figures. .. .J.McC.: Put away
your saw and learn to draw people as they are.
....Jack P.: Give yourself another year or two....
Harry C.: Close the dwarf factory M. H.
Reserve: The old man has too much stomach and
the young man has the head of a snake J.D.S.:
Not a gleam in it M.C.: You should have got
in while the war was on. Study hard and be in
time for the next... .K.W.C.: No lack....F.P.R.:
Why has the mad demon such large hands?....
Billy M.: The war is over... . A.McK.: You’re very
young and your drawings are younger than that... .
J.H.W.: A long way off yet. Go ahead and study.
Oh! Ilow we’ll remember dear old Birdie,
The heart and soul of Anz^ie;
They love him like a cheery,
We’d love to have him back.
Oh! How we’ll regard him as a brother,
As the world will know no other;
That brought the love of a mother
In the hearts of the boys together.
Oh! How we love our dear old general.
Our hearts can never tell;
To think of those, those that fell,
To meet again their dear old general.
Oh! How glad we were to see you,
You brought joy on such a happy family;
Of one we love so true,
Now take our heart-feelings with you
With ever success and prosperity ;
Across the ocean blue.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers ail fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries,
tor all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, ■), 4. (i Spring Street,
4iio. Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 11,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, IT Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
-telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Hanking, Public Companies, ike.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000,
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWI.KY,
Kt. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. : Hon. Sir ROBERT PJIILP,
K.C.M.G. ; lion. A. .1. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL RANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1868.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Line 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . £BOO.OOO 0 o
Paid-up Capital . . .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund . . .. -rT .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 b
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ; I
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0. !
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... HltiSItAN E.
Dranehes— London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queen stand.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E, P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for I
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales I
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of !
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at ali I
Chief Cities throughout the World,
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS .VS?,. .'S
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled Capital 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ~ 625,000
£1.820.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collects
rirocn-eds remitted. All usual banking busine-
transacted.
Shipping, ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE .LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. MAKURA, March 26.
The most beautiful Scenery In the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the AU-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
MOAN A, from Wellington, April 22.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, April 15.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
hhhßh
. * %
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liabilit.v
Directors:
f 4,639,160
8,200,000
4,639,160
m,478,320
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.. President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Kobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D
The lion. .Tames T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —2B Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Catde remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
CommomvealtbjSfe JBanfc of Huotmlta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDMEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at ail Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1»20 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up £8,162,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. {2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000' 0 0
£7,082,578 2 G
ďf
Oibgctobb:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C,
J. W, Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank, Limited: Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROCGHOrT THE WORF,R
Shipping.
Huddart Parker Lh
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
! STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDaRT PARKER LIMITED,
Co lins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street. Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four wepks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 2d
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, 01 ' Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLOA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence River--,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. Cd.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. fid. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zainboanera, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
ul-Generul for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To pro\e what we si e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Btreet, Melbourne, Vic.
.iiier-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United steam Navigation Co., Aitd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blaekheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS EOK:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
p. & o. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Alesspgeries Maritime® Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Uuddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London -
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bnndabel'g. Bowen and CooHovvn.
Head Officer Mary Street, Brisbane.


d
“FOOTWEAR
DISTINCTION”
is achieved by the wearing of
ABBEY SHOES.
They are specially designed and care-
fully modelled to give the utmost in com-
fort and long service.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal., in a smart “made-to-order” style.
PRICE 67/6
In Tan Willow Calf, 60/-
Stocked in half-sizes and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Friends
BIG Brother B . Please cable me at
once. Am not well and need you.
ALMA, 1035 Maple Avenue, Evanston,
Illinois, U.S.A.
skkrii;§utit
Ih
V
EASTER HATS.
K*
IN THE NEWEST
SHADES AND SHAPES.
MAHOGANY BROWN,
GREY SLATE,
MOSS GREENS,
FROM STETSON,
KNOX,
MALLORY,
TRESS,
SCOTT,
HERBERT JOHNSON.
JlicharU
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
ď
AMBEROLA evenings
are happy ones.
There are no dull evenings in the home «*
which boasts an Amberola.
If a guest or two has “dropped in,’’ or the
family are by themselves, it is just the
same —the Amberola is always ready and
waiting to provide an entertainment that
gives real enjoyment.
Illustrated is the Amberola 30—available in fine golden
oak cabinet—the instrument for YOUR home.
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for details, or write
for illustrated catalogue, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only,), 364-373 Jyent Street, Sydney.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
fd
“A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 211 b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
2 5/ =
ď
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
f
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath (lie fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, ISin. long, bored
and rifled With the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b., fitted with plain V-back sight r» r> /
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
d
“Suitable for small game and target shooting."
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round
length over all. 35in. ; weight 441 b.; slide action, blade
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
barrel;
7 5/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without, notice.
mm
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy .”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s|lb. ..
Freight paid,
-/oi/fi'ar
ďf
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. pflj££ POST FREE
d
“A suitable iceapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., cliambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights: weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.}
37/6
ďf
d
ď
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model. ICA, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 16 cartridges. Weight silb.
. Freight paid, S*o/IU/"
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water- and Moisture-proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled. T/JJL
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free, *2
f
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £.7/1 51-
With Octagon Barrel .... Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, _
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid.JX*/
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Fvce to any address.
iSC
mSTRTILm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St; also at
Tiewcastle i Brisbane


■* , -- 3
■
'
■
.
SHraM
~4- ,;>,
HHaHirai
KB
iS«
s «f
'
Hi ■•;
wm
liaby LESLIE O’BIIIEN, aged U months (from a photo).
Another Bonny Rexona Baby
Is your little one a Rexona Baby too?
Enclosed you will find my baby’s photo. Leslie was 9 months old
when photographed, and he is a beautiful, healthy boy. He lias been
washed with Rexona Soap since birth, and has a lovely, clear skin. I can
thoroughly recommend Rexona Soap to any mother for her baby.
Trusting you will like my baby’s photo,
Yours faithfully.
Mrs. J. W. O’BRIEN,
“Emohruo,” Louden Avenue, Haberfield, N.S.W.
Bath your Baby with Rexona Soap.
Wealthy baby always enjoys a batli, ami Rexona Soap makes your child a
healthy baby. It keeps his skin fresh and sweet., bis scalp so clean and wholesome.
Any irritation of the skin which keeps baby awake or makes him cross and peevish,
Rexona Soap will quickly soothe. A refreshing bath witli Rexona Soap, and gently
anointing with Rexona, will cool his skin and take away all discomforts, so that
baby and mother will sleep quietly. The pure, sweet emollients used in Rexona Soap
are suited to baby’s delicate skin, and keep it in the best condition. Rexona babies
are contented babies, because they feel well cared for and
comfortable. Get a tablet of Rexona Soap from your
chemist or groeer. You are sure to like it. I’rice 1/-
per tablet.
A
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
II
!
CAtnfAiN]|fj«j
Ml .'I
m
• Aw'D-c.
AROMATIC
AROMATIC
mmm
HEMI
m
H
1
m
tum tnitir* kftrit HMM
Ihl bcri mm.
Mtt Avtluhnn &*>*,
■Uhmf » b*vcr«c« •»telfffc
nt WMlily and ct juiTMUri
tody.
PROPftKTOM
rm Wstmuan Dutiuow
C»L?t
mi»ou*Ne.
426-r
A Beverage of Guaranteed Purity,
Distilled from Finest Australian Grain.
ALL HOI ELS and LICENSED ONCERS I
f
CS
1
N
Salt licks
At all Storekeepers, Produce Merchants, Saddlers 8 Blacksmiths.
For All
Animals.
HANG THEM
BY THE
LOOP.
Wanted to Buy.
Diamonds, pearls and other fine gems.
We wish to BUY in any quantities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in Thk
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Toarra Mara Mona.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Toarra Mara Mona was the old name (aboriginal
Tasmanian) for Maria Island —once a convict
station, now a forgotten place of graves.]
A BLACK shape flits by starts and fits,
Or sits
Like a leper down by the tumbling
foam;
By day or night, through sunshine white, .
Or bite
Of star-teeth stabbing the turquoise dome ;
Where a banshee everlastingly
Cries to the sea.
A demon shape with jaws agape,
An ape
Bred like a man and browed like a beast,
Savage, malign, with the cat o’ nine
For sign.
England, this was your strong High Priest!
This slave of the whip and the convict
ship.
With your name on its lip!
To the hate of you and the fear of you,
Red dew
Sprang by the bloody triangle bars;
Smoked from the sod like a cry to God,
Vengeance-shod,
And clothed in a shuddering cloak of stars.
“Hope of all clay. Time is thy Day,
Thou wilt repay!”
The black hulls rot, in shame forgot;
Red clot.
Triangle and gibbet and singing cord
Tremble and pass ’neath Ilis emerald grass.
Tremble and pass
To the black gehenna of things abhorred.
Only shall reign here by the main,
Ghosts of old pain!
Where grew the road 'neath lash and goad,
Or glowed
The soft green flame of a garden close,
And mercy deep as the velvet creep
Of sleep
Was the holy touch of a garden rose.
There is sobbing of waves in the
hollow caves,
And graves.... graves !
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Hero Talks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE last of the children had disap-
peared in the pine scrub swinging
his water-bag as though with its for-
ward thrust to help himself forward; for
the heat of the day had made him leg-weary.
The slow, monotonous day’s work was at
an end, and, thankful that it was so, I put
away the books, cleaned the inkwells, whose
liquid contents the heat had evaporated, leav-
ing only a kind of black mud behind, closed
the school-door, and took the track to Flana-
gan’s. Being the middle month of summer,
the sun still hung high in the sky, and his
rays had lost little of their noonday inten-
sity—so little, indeed, that as I trudged
along the red track, which hoof and tyre
had broken and made dusty, I envied my
shadow that I was not it and it I. There
were other things I envied, too —the surfer
surrendering himself to the cold keen thrill
of the breaking w r ave, and the drinker lying
back on his cane lounge with something
long and iced at his elbow.
There was no wind except at intervals,
when the air, circling in the heat, caught
up the dust and whirled it along the track,
dancing a mad Dervish dance for a distance,
and then suddenly vanishing. In the pine
scrub there was no movement of bird or
limb, excepting, now and again, when a
crow which had been filling itself, beak and
craw, on some wayside victim of the drought,
rose at my approach, or a mallee hen, dis-
turbed by my footfalls, scuttled through the
undergrowth.
Where the track turned to take its way
around a corner of Flanagan’s boundary-
fence, I met Barker.
He came out of the pine scrub to my
right with a furtive, embarrassed look in
his eyes, as though he were shy of some-
thing, and sought to hide his shyness. On
the moment I knew that it was not I but
Mary Flanagan for whom he had been
waiting.
“Hallo, Tom,” I said —“hot enough for
you?”
He grinned a reply, falling into step beside
me. “I’m going your way a bit,” he ex-
plained.
I liked Tom, because he had about him
the big, frank simplicity of the bush. The
town, being a wise place, teaches a man
to regard this as a foolish possession and
to get rid of it; but Tom and town wisdom
were strangers. There, were many things
that the Town could have taught him, but
(being as much of it as its own clean,
strong, tall gum-trees) the Bush had not
been negligent in the matter of his educa-
tion. He was a good axeman, ploughman,
horseman, and knew all there was to know
of sheep and cattle —wool, hide, flesh and
bone. Harnessed to any work on station-
or farm, he would not lie back in the collar,
but pull all the time with all his strength.
He was a big man, too, with a hand on him
that it was not good to feel except in the
way of friendship. But with the ladies he
failed disastrously. In feminine company,
if it happened to be the kind of company
that takes hold of a man’s eyes and in-
spires him to show his paces, he limped
awkwardly, and found v T ords hard to come
by. As a friend, pretty Mary Flanagan
thought no end of him. but as a suitor — 1
“That feller Bailey,” said Tom, digging
the dust up nervously with the toe of his
furry boot, “he seems to be a great bloke,
don’t he?”
I nodded, not wishing to say just what I
thought of Bailey, which didn’t amount to
much.
“He seems to be a bit of a ’ero,” continued
Tom: and then, the heat of the sun get-
ting into his tones, “been everywhere, seen
everything, done everything. A bloke like
that’s hard to beat.”
“To beat?” I queried.
“Yairs,” said Tom; “a man’s got no
oharnce with ’im.”
I knew what Tom meant, the chance that
was troubling him, and because I had seen
Bailey and Mary Flanagan together —the
suave manner of the man, as he sat beside
her telling his fine stories, and the light of
admiration in the girl’s eyes as she leaned
towards him listening—l feared that Tom
was right.
“Gawd, how lie can talk!” said Tom.
“There’s nothing that he don’t know—excep
just the few things that belong around here.
Trees and sheep and cattle and such.’’
Like Tom I had been impressed by Bailey's
breadth of knowledge and facility of phrase.
But now and again, when he talked of the
few things that I knew, he had not talked
convincingly, and thus where Tom believed
and wondered, I watched and doubted.
Still harping on Bailey., Tom went on: “1
heerd him telling Mary the other night that
once, when he belonged to the troopers in
Africa, he’d saved a white woman from
the niggers—himself alone at the time and
them armed with spears and arrers. When
he hasn’t been a trooper he’s been a whaler,
or a pearler, or’’—with abysmal despair
in his tones —“Gawd knows what!”
I laughed, but on the instant, because he
was in no light mood, didn’t like myself for
having laughed.
Where the track was crossed by Flana-
gan’s sliprail gate Tom turned to leave me
and retrace his way. Something in his eyes,
despondency; something in the slouch of
his broad shoulders, hopelessness, appealed
to me, and I said to him: “Cheer up, Tom.
You’re a long way from being dead yet.”
He gave a queer smile at that, and held
out his hand to shake mine.
“It’s this way,” he said. “Bailey’s been
born to make good, and I haven’t. Things
don’t happen for the man that stays at home.
A bloke’s got to travel to have a chance of
doing anything big. What show have I
had to make good in the ’ero line? And it’s
the ’ero that takes the girls all the time.”
He spat in the dust, and then continued
dully; “It’s no go. He’s got her yarded all
right, and she’s going to be his, and I’m
about as much account in her eyes as one
of her father’s sheep.”
He gave a shrug, forced a laugh and went
on down the track ; and as I watched him
I thought that one has not always to travel
in order to be a hero. Every day lie was
doing big things—not talking of having done
them, as Bailey’s way was. He was fighting
drought, he was bitting and bridling Nature.
He was bringing the hard, stubborn soil
into willing servitude. And, if heroism
means a good thing done in the teeth of
peril, according to local report lie was a
hero in that respect too. His brave act at
Brown’s Creek, his swimming of it when
no one else would dare its flooded, swirling
waters at the dead of night in order to
bring a doctor to Mary Flanagan’s father,
lying almost at the point of death, was a
brave, big thing, as everybody who
heard it said. And then there was the
fire at Kennedy’s, and Kennedy, drunk and
full of fight, refusing to leave the burning
house and threatening any man who dared
to attempt to rescue him with the father
and the mother and the whole ancestry oi
a “bating,” till Barker, stepping out from
the crowd and going into the smoking-room,
landed him one on the point, took one on
the point in return and emerged from the
place of peril with Kennedv, still blasphem-
ing and swearing that he Wild fight the five
continents, dragging at liis heels. That
was no ordinary deed, and it showed that
Barker owned not only a hard fist but a
good heart as well.
Mary and Tom had been neighbors from
their birth. Their parents’ holdings ad-
joined, and they had played together, schooled
together, ridden together, from the beginning
far back as either of them could remember.
Tom was Mary’s refuge in difficulties,
her champion in trouble; but to Tom’s way
of thinking he was only this and no more
to her. It was not because they had grown
up together, not because they had been play-
mates, schoolmates, riding mates, that they
should necessarily love one another. Yet Tom
devoutly hoped that by some miracle it should
be so, while Mary—well, Mary had her secret
wishes, too.
Then, just before I came on the scene
to take charge of the district provisional
school, Bailey appeared. He was some sort
of relative of the Manseys, who owned
Hetherington, the station near by with the
big mortgage on it. Shortly after his arri-
val he met the Flanagans at the local race-
meeting, and saw that Mary was good to look
on. Thereafter he came often to Flanagan’s
to look on Mary. He was a dapper charac-
ter and small-bodied, but, if there was any
truth in his tale of what he had achieved,
with a big soul. I did not like his eyes,
nor did Tom: they were small and shifty;
but, for that matter, perhaps, he did not
like mine or Tom’s—perhaps he did not care
enough about us to either like or dislike
them. _ Neither did I think much of his
chin —it was weak and characterless. I
thought it mean of Nature that she should
handicap any hero with such a chin.
Yet he had a way with him that won the
women. . He had stories to tell, stories with
a thrill in them, and he told them well. Talk
of what topic one would, in some subtle way
he would discover an experience of his own
to which it was mysteriously linked, and
thereafter he posed as the chief figure of the
occasion, with the limelight upon him.
According to himself there was nothing that
he feared, but there were things that he
loathed. He loathed all creeping, crawling
things, things that wriggled on their bellies
and crept behind wainscots.
It was a great occasion for the women of
the district, the young and impressionable
daughters of the locality, when they had him
to talk to them. And when he came to
Flanagan’s Mary would sit at his feet, listen-
ing to him with eyes enlarged, much as the
lady in the play listened to Othello. To her
simple seeming, it was evident that he was
a great man, a man to be proud of. Often
of an evening he would ride over from
Hetherington, sitting his horse with that
careless grace of the riding-school which the
bush horse is unused to; and, hanging the
animal up to a verandah-post, and bidding
us a suave good-night, become instantly lord
of all. Sometimes Tom would be present, his
hat on his knees, his spurs on his heels, his
eyes on Mary. Sometimes he would stay
on for an hour or two, discarded and lonely,
(Continued on next page.)


GET RID OF THAT BAD BACK!
In these days of high prices it’s poor economy to worry along
with a bad back that makes the simplest work a torture and a full
day’s work impossible. If every day brings morning lameness,
sharp pains when bending or lifting, nervousness and a dull, tired
state, there’s surely something wrong. Likely it’s kidney weak-
ness. Urinary disorders may give further proof. Don’t neglect
it. Though easily corrected at first, delay may run you into
gravel, dropsy, crippling rheumatism or incurable kidney
disease. Get a bottle of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to-day.
They have helped thousands.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Backache Cured.
Mrs. C. I. Hunt, Music Teacher, 47 Edgeware
Road, Enmore, writes: “For years I used one
medicine after another hoping to get relief from
aching pains in my back. They were very trying
and I could not move without getting a severe
twinge, and at night my rest was broken. A friend
recommended Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and it was good advice, for they gave me relief
after a few doses and a thorough course completely
banished the pain. I did not write sooner, as I
wished to test my cure, but now that I have
been well for some time, I am quite justified in
saying that my cure is permanent.”
Eighteen years later Mrs. Hunt says: “Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are worth their weight in
gold. They cured my acinus: back eighteen years
ago and I have been free of the ailment ever since,
but I always keep them in the house, and take a
few doses every now and then just as a preventive
against any return.”
A MAN’S CASE.
Backache Cured.
Mr. Cecil H. Tooth, 63 Pier Street, Sydney, says:
‘‘About twelve months ago I was suddenly seized
with sharp, shooting pains across the small of my
back. As time went on I got worse instead of
better and was often so bad that every movement
increased the torture. I felt sure my kidneys were
out of'order, as I always seemed tired and had no
energy for anything. A doctor prescribed for me,
but his medicine only gave a little relief. A friend
advised me to take a course of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, so I got some at once and began using
them. They acted on the kidneys straight away
and I have just finished the sixth bottle and feel
jplendid, in fact, can safely say I am cured. Doan’s
Pills are a grand remedy and no mistake, and should
be used by all who suffer w’ith their kidneys.”
Two years later Mr. Tooth says: “I have had
no return of my old complaint since Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me over two years ago.”
&
m
A
w.
Sk
j
‘Every Piciure
Tells a Story.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
d
Backache
Kidney
ď
but often he made his excuses and went off
straightway. Mostly I bore him company
for a mile or tw T o down the track, through
the pine-scrub. On these occasions, inspire
him as I would, he had little to say. With
his heart all on Mary it was difficult for
him to talk of anything else, and of her he
would not talk.
Once he said, bulking big in the darkness,
with the gloom of the pine-scrub about him
and the breadth of the plains to give him
setting: “What in Gawd’s name made him
go and do all the big things he skites about,
and why doesn't he talk of the little things
he didn’t do?”
I laughed. “It’s his chin, Tom,” I said.
"He’s got to fight against his chin. A man
with a chin like that has to put up as big a
light as you put up against Kennedy to make
good.”
Tom chuckled. “I did notice he hasn't got
much chin,” he remarked.
Towards the end of summer rain fell —
thick, grey, refreshing rain that called out
all the scents of the pines and the odors of
the gums, and gave life and movement to
the seed in the soil and a green sap to blade
and stem. The full creeks and dams and
tanks brought the water-fowl back from dis-
tant places, and the songbirds to the
scrub, so that there was song and sport on
every side. The people of the district, too,
heartened by the good thing that had befallen
them, rode and drove away, as opportunity
offered, to ball and race-meeting and festive
gathering on farm and station.
Caught by the mood of the moment the
Flanagans gave a dance. A full score of
couples attended, tall fellows amongst whom
Tom Barker was the tallest, and pretty girls
of whom Mary Flanagan was the prettiest.
They came, most of them, early in the even-
ing, and Tom came earliest of all. As he
dismounted from his horse and shook hands
with me, 1 saw that his eyes were heavy,
and when he spoke his voice was without
merriment.
“I’m going to put it straight to Mary to-
night,” he said, “and if she turns me down
I’ll get away to Queensland or somewhere.”
“Good, Tom,” I replied. “Get it over
somehow, whatever happens.”
Afterwards, when the fun .started, and I
saw Bailey and Mary together for so many
dances, and Tom a mute looker-on, 1 felt
like taking him away and filling him up with
whisky, so that he might forget the whole
world and all the misery it held in store for
him.
After a couple of hours of dancing supper
was served, and during supper I heard a
voice, suave, insidious, persuasive, that stole
through all the other voices, winning them
over to muteness, and compelling men to
become silent and women to listen. Having
won what it wanted it paused suddenly, as
though afraid that it had somehow offended.
And then I heard Mary say : “Oh, go on,
Mr. Bailey, do let us hear what happened
then.
Bailey smiled and shook his unfinished
chin to and fro. * “But the rest of the com-
pany?”
“Go on, please go on,” they cried, the
women leaning towards him. I noticed that
the men mostly remained silent —the recital
of his heroic achievements no doubt making
them feel small.
We drew our chairs back from the table
and Bailey began.
“Since you will have it," he said
deprecatingly—“well, I suppose you will
have it.”
Then, with all eyes upon him, sitting care-
lessly in his chair, one knee thrown over
the other, he told his story.
“When I w r as a member of the Cape
Mounted Police —a fine body of men, big,
strong fellows, every one of them —I was
sent with a detachment to do frontier duty—-
keep the natives in subjection and that kind
of thing.”
He went on with his story, but I did not
listen to it word for word. I was thinking
of Tom, and the fate which I feared awaited
him. It was a pity that this man had come
between them; for, if ever a couple were
meant to mate, it was surely those two. Then
I somehow forgot Tom, and found myself
listening again.
“Macpherson went off with his gun in
search of game, leaving the rest of us in our
tents. About a half-mile away was a foresc,
and it was towards that forest Macpherson
headed. I watched him disappear among
the trees, and lay back on my stretcher
thinking, smoking, reading—passing the time
as seemed best. Soon I fell into a doze,
and then, suddenly, I was broad awake and
on my feet. From far away had come the
report of a gun, followed by a human voice
shouting. I could not distinguish what was
said, but by the piercing quality of it I
knew that it was the cry of a man in peril.”
He paused—it was the fitting' moment to
pause—looked around to gauge the impres-
sion that he had made, and then, in level,
tense tones, continued.
“Stepping from my tent I saw a sight
that perplexed me. In the distance I saw
Macpherson. His arms were stretched out
before him as though in appeal, and he was
running, hardly setting foot to ground as he
came on, running like a man with seven
thousand devils behind him. I looked to see
the cause of his flight, but at first could dis-
cover nothing except a cloud of dust moving
rapidly at his heels. As he came nearer,
crying hoarsely for help all the time, from
the cloud of dust emerged red, hairy, long-
armed shapes that sprawled along, screaming
with rage. Then I knew these shapes for
what they were, and my heart almost stopped
its beating. They were baboons. Macpher-
son had killed one of their number, I
learned afterwards, and the rest of them
were in pursuit of him. Catching up my
rifle, I began to run to his assistance, for I
knew the dreadful fate that awaited him if
they should reach him first. As I ran I
counted them. One, the nearest, a big,
whiskered fellow, I shot, pausing only
to make my aim sure, and that left five
to be dealt with. That gave Macpherson
new life, and he passed me, running like a
locomotive.”
Bailey paused then and., parenthetically,
as though in explanation only, remarked:
“Some men do that kind of thing—even
brave men —when they are frenzied with
fear, but it left me in a perilous position.”
He paused again; and again, though we
hung on his words as if the peril that he
pictured were ours, and not his, went on in
cool, level tones:
“I did not hesitate. I went in and fought
them. The first I smashed with my ritie-
butt. The second I struck down in the
same way. The third met the same fate.
Then luck deserted me, and I tripped and
fell. In a moment the two gaunt-armed,
hairy brutes w'ere upon me, clutching at my
throat. I thrust them back, but they came
at me again, and then, struggling to my
knees, I seized —I seized”
What had happened? His face had be-
come pallid. His lips had fallen apart. He
was shaking in every limb, in every muscle,
in every nerve. And he was looking, his
eyes out-thrust by horror, towards a corner
of the room. Then he suddenly rose to his
feet and, like lightning, leapt on the table.
“A rat! A rat!” he screamed.
His attitude, his behavior, seemed so
much in keeping with his recital that at
first we thought he was only acting. But
when we saw that he had planted one foot
in a dish of jelly and the other in a heap
of trifle, we realised that his terror was
genuine. Then across the room ran a rat
scurrying for cover.
“Kill it —kill the brute,” he screamed.
“Won’t anybody kill it?”
It was Tom Barker who put his boot upon
it. And it was Tom Barker who held it up by
the tail so that Bailey should see that it
was truly and genuinely dead.
And it was Tom Barker who said, with
a droil twist in his voice: “And now, Mr.
Bailey, like the ’ero you are. you might
take your foot out of that jelly and come
dow’n and tell us how you dealt w'ith them
baboons.”
Someone laughed. It was Mary.
RODERIV QUINN.
The Dinkum O.C.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HR went nway with the Originals in
the Old Black and Greens and got a
D.C.M. at Quinn’s Post and his first
pip soon after. He had his left wing knocked
off at the elbow' in the next stunt and was
sent to England, where he filled in time for
a couple of years as O.C. of various com-
panies. Then he took leave to see his uncle
in Belfast, but coming back the boat was
torpedoed and poor Laraday was drow'ned.
He was one of the best, and if he could keep
a man out of the boob he would always
do it.
The last time I saw him was at Verne
Citadel towards the end of T 7, and he was
O.C. of A Company there. The boys were
all waiting for boats to take them home, and
most of them were pretty well smashed up
or very sick, so things had to be black against
a man to earn more than “admonished” from
old Laraday. But you know' what some of
those convalescent camp sergeants were like
—too proud to 1 fight, but very big dogs when
it came to dealing with broken Diggers a
hundred miles away from the guns.' We had
one such, pearl in A Company. He was
marked “Cl, home duty,” on account of
synovitis, and the boys said that every night
for a week before a medical board was to
be held he sat out on the embankment with
a wet bandage on his knee, tapping it with a
big spoon to bring up the swelling around
the cap. His duty was to detail the various
fatigues each morning for our company, and
there was always trouble about it. Boaring
sort of brute he wms.
Of course, Laraday didn’t care for him, and
mostly either dismissed the cases he sent up
or “admonished” them. The old man grabbed
any excuse to do it. One morning Sergeant
Brasteed (the name w r as always slightly
corrupted by the entire company) was short
of fatigues among the platoons w r ho were not
too weak, so he went to the Flying Squadron
in the rear to see if he could pick out a
leadsw'inger. The members of the Squadron
were mostly on crutches or tw'o sticks, and
as a body were exempt from fatigues; but
occasionally a fairly able-bodied invalid
slipped in with them to dodge a bit of work.
This time Darky Bates was with them
and he was the only one without a stick.
He had shock and a hurt spine and was a
total wreck —just able to crawl about.
The sergeant spied him at once and roared,
“What’s your name and number?” Darky
gave him the information, and was told his
duty for the morning w r as to carry coal to
the officers’, mess. This was a job for a
strong man, as the stuff had to be lumped a
good 200 yards. Darky stood at attention
and said, “Look ’ere, surge, I can hardly
carrv these Verne ‘chats’ about, let alone
coal.”
•'That’s your job,” said Brasteed, glaring
at the wreck in uniform. Darky worse than
glared back at him, and you could see he
wms swallowing a family history of the ser
geant, word by word; but he kept quiet.
The two of them stared at each other for
half a minute until the sergeant inquired
what Bates was looking at. Then the words
rushed out, “How the ’ell do I know? I'm
not a zoologist.”
Jack Frazer and I escorted Darky to the
orderly-room, and at 10 o’clock 'ho was
charged w'ifli “dumb insolence and insubor-
dinate language to an N.C.0.” lie pleaded
not guilty. The sergeant glibly stated the
usual facts—-“ Sir, at 9.15,” etc., and told
how viciously Darky had eyed him. Then
Laraday broke in with, “Cut out the dumb
insolence.’ sergeant—l’m fed up with that.
Go on with your other charge.”
Then the sergeant detailed Darky’s fatal
speech, and stood waiting to hear the delin-
quent get seven days.
“Anything to say?” queried the O.C. of
the prisoner.
“Only this, sir—whatever I said was true.”
Laraday looked at Bates’s papers and
hastily turning over the rest read his enlist-
ment particulars : “Bates, John Calvin, Bed-
fern. 22 years three months, sft. 9in., single,
Presbyterian, bookmaker’s clerk,” and his
face brightened at once. “I see, sergeant, he
enlisted as a bookmaker’s clerk. Perhaps the
man is not a zoologist. Case dismissed.”
CIRRER.


►
-
%
i
v
WESTIN CH 0 USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highesj: effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 4 14.
THE WtSTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featiierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office 99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WA
0
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Suppi.t—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams,' Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VTC.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
TAN KS
wc speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’* Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enfkmy. Iry them to-day, your chemist has
tnern. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dosa- Small Prlca.
GENUINE must
fITTLE
IVER
PILLS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
the Standard Remedv which has outlived the Gentunu,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tlie Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
-m
Uswi since l.wr,. CURES Write for Rook
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
ft? GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton's"- refuse all substitutes.
Y
motor lorries
/
The Denby a Lorry Leader.
THERE are leaders and trailers in men and machines.
Leading lorries last longest because they operate with
the least possible friction. Denby lorries are built
to absorb the greatest possible starting, stopping, climbing
and tugging strains imposed by the heaviest loads.
Load capacities: 1, 2, 2£ s 3i, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
/ * Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
BE PERSUADED
to try Beechani's Pills! All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that “ Beecham's
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box”. This is what people say who have
taken them—who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of cases—is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you ? Beecham's Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medici ie of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing and, at. the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEEGHM’S PILLS.
Prepared only by TIIOMAS BEECHAM. St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9 (16$ pills).
REMINGTON BMC
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
«c
2 2.
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to lire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 13 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted With Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
YV eight, 4.{lb. PRICE £6 net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK. LTD. J. 1\ KNIGHT.
COWLES & DUNN. E. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS. LTD. NOCK & KiRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. ,MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.
JOHN BROOMFIELD. LTD. NOYES BROTHERS. LTD.
T. B. HOOPER & CO., Brisbane, Q. PAUL & GRAY, LTD., Brisbane, Q.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers:—
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
wmmrn
Whenever
YOU SEE A SWAN, OR
A PICTURE OF A SWAN,
OR THE WORD SWAN-
THINK OF THE VERY
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN—
'SWAN'OP&fI
Self-filling;
Safety, an<l
Standard.
Like the bird-—it's so clean,
smooth-gliding, easy-flowing'
and lives to a good old age
Use Swan Ink,
Catalogue free from the makers
MABIE, TODD & CO., “Swan” House, 133 Oxford Street, London, W.I.
Australasian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE, 255 a George Street, Sidney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news fro"in Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge. . •
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library. Macquarie Street, Sydney.
* For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD.
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
f
10/-
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
M
0/-
each
rree
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
F,»
The simplicity, lightness ami- excellence of tha
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normahby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


%
MS
4^
rjut&em
ii-
«£SF’
s£
:
?:.S5
S®sg
!*■'?, S
X«fe3
*8
■r:.
sfrs?>*XrV*Jrds'.x# -
’ S !' SK
■tRSCSTr
W|iP 3?
illlll
/ £
»3
*:i-
fipp
The Curvilinear Concentrator.
“Dorr” Thickeners $ Classifiers.
Rockbreakers, Rolls, Screens, Jigs, Classifiers.
Rock Drills, Steel, Wire Rope, Explosives.
Complete Plants Designed and Erected.
Brace Peebles Generators, Motors 8 Converters.
r'i
**
M 4
'••'V
=«2
I*3*
jm-
: I
&
,iV.'«>
"wSv
< «K&!I
B&sr
*a ijuffi
3
W>»3
33M3
«S
■ *
■ .-:
&
r u V»
m
rs
yy
2!
’V-
&£
as
iVJ
1 :
■>■'■
I*2®
««
MS
i'Ac
»sj«
STrfer?
>.ttV*w
v*i-V
srm
Aiy
