

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. Gr. WATKINS «SC CO.,
' Machinery MercKantt, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—ROB—
Mining and Contractors' Plant, Engineers' and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,,.
Specialty ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74t St-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
tf/a/Tcks at 215*17 Swanston SUlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St.,Hev/castkr. l97*Castlereaqh St, & 69 George St.,West, Sydney. _
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone City932s.
Joseph W.Hill, General Manager.
THE ‘‘AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says; ‘‘The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, mid although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
' Piete 1). and 1.-Co. Ltd.”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
i
Head and
Shoulders
above alt
others.
Sizes:
1/4 h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and >
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton $ Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Argue'^
'Sfllfc
a
v’l’i .!■:
O
n4li\
\r
<O7
<?
■c>
"A
if/
m
Nothino
to Argue
About!'
m
/A /
m
O
Aw
6 BA c
"life. “Aretheßest
JUNKET- made from theSe genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive or
HANSENS
Par INDIGESTION
*na DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
1
Ready-Roofing
“Not the same as others.”
Malthoid Roofing is made to last. It stands the test
of time and weather because the finest quality is built
into it.
Malthoid costs less than galvanised iron, yet it has every
advantage you could find in any roofing.
Handsome for homes; durable for woolsheds, stables,
kennels, fowlhouses, etc.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions, Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sitgar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
The Old Gaelic Whisky
I
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., JLTD.
ROUGHING and
FINISHING.
Sole Australian
Bepresentatives:
.
available from 2£ln. x ljin. to 6in. x
& Go. Ltd.,
115 Pitt Street, SIDNEY
506 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
Inter-State Stocking Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
184 Edward Street, BRISBANE. Grenfell Street, ADELAIDE.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.). LTD.. 891 Hav Street. PERTH.
to;®
'to©
.
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
mistake— the “PAVILION,'’ Circular Quay, is the most popular establishment in Sydney for Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners and After-Theatre Suppers. Orchestral performances at all
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2120.
Thursday, September 30, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCICS BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
Owners’ opinions
World-wide tributes to the Supreme Sunbeam
From a New Zealand
owner :
“ I am writing to say
that I cannot speak too
highly of the Sunbeam
car you shipped to me
last November lam
extremely satisfied with
it in every way.”
From a Shanghai owner :
'I Have done over
1,700 miles so far with-
out a Hitch of any kind.
1 am very pleased with
the car, and consider it
to be one of the best
in Shanghai.”
SUNBEAM
SUNBEAM -COATALEN AIRCRAFT ENGINES
The SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR Co. Ltd.
Export Dept.: 62. OXFORD ST., LONDON. W. 1. ENGLAND
Cable Jlddresi : Head Office :
“SUBEAMOCO. LONDON'* WOLVERHAMPTON. ENGLAND
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WIIXSFORD, 823 George Street, Sydney-
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
" MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
- *
“THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAYERLEY PEN."
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL & 500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes ol
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture.&c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BABTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Messrs. METHUEN’S
NEW BOOKS.
Send your- name and address to Messrs. Methuen
and you will receive regularly their Illustrated
Announcement List.
GENERAL LITERATURE.
Economics. By James Qunnison, M.A.,
Lecturer in Social Economics in the
University of Glasgow. Grown Bvo.
ss. net.
This book aims at a brief presentation of the
underlying principles of economic life, a know-
ledge of which is essential to citizenship.
A Social and Industrial History of
England, 1815-1918. By J. F.
Ross, M.A., Lecturer on Economic
History in the University of Edin-
burgh. Crown Bvo. ss. net.
This book deals with the evolution of Eng-
lish industrial conditions from the close of the
Napoleonic War to the outbreak of the Great
European War.
Social Economics. By J. Harry
Jones, M.A., Professor of Economics
in the University of Leeds, one-time
Fellow of the University of Wales.
Crown Svo. (is. net.
The Battle of the Marne. By George
Herbert Ferris, Special Correspondent
of the Daily Chronicle with the
French Armies, 1914-1918. With 18
Maps and Plans. Crown Svo. 10s.
Od. net.
This important volume presents for the first
time in English (indeed, on the same scale, in
any language) a full view of »the greatest
of historic battles.”
METHUEN’S POPULAR NOVELS.
Sestrina. By A. Safroni-Middleton.
A story with an adventurous hero, full of
tropic mystery and thrilling realism.
John Bull, Junior. By F. Wren
Child.
A story of public-school life in which humor
and mystery are skilfully blended.
Methuen 8 Co. Ltd.,
36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
' 'i v THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWBEY, Proprietor.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards tbeir food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson's Kuxnen-
-thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to «ct,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.: —
The Lancet, The Pbaotitioneb, etc.
[7
HUDSON
aA jwmcw. ,
The Red Page
The Digger Spirit
Some day, when events fit into the right
perspective, a great book will be written by
an Australian about the war which made his
countrymen a nation. The task is impossible
yet, for the facts are still imperfectly known,
and the mind is still oppressed by the tumult
and horror of the time ; it will be years before
Australia’s part in it all can be viewed
stesidily and whole. But materials are accumu-
lating for the future historian or writer
of historical romance, and such are The
Story of the Twenty-First, by Captain A: It.
Macneil, M.C. (the 21st Battalion Associa-
tion, Melbourne), an account of the achieve-
ments of a distinguished Victorian forma-
tion; To the Last Ridge, by W. 11. Down-
ing (Australian Authors’ Agency, Mel-
bourne), battle-sketches, recalling now and
then the grim realism of Verestehagin; and
Padre Gault's Stunt Booh, a popular chap-
lain’s narrative of his work behind the lines.
All three books are honest and human, and
the best of Downing is so very good that it
is a pity his best is so small in bulk. The
Last Ridge could have been improved 50
per cent, by a skilful editor. It includes
newspaper articles that weren’t worth re-
printing, and it includes these vignettes of
Fleurbaix, that aimless and fruitless dis-
aster :—•
A bald man, with a red moustache, lay on a board,
very still, his face to the wall. Someone cried con-
tinually “Bill, Bill!” all that night, but Bill did
not answer. Between the salvos of shells one heard
him again and again till dawn; and then that
voice also was stilled.
The bays and traverses were jambed with dead
and wounded lying head to foot for two miles, in
a treble row, on the fire steps, beneath them, and
behind the blockhouses. Wounded came crawling
in, rolling over the parapet and ‘sprawling to the
bottom. A white-faced boy, naked to the waist,
was being led along the trench, a hole in his side.
He cracked some joke; then, “I think I’ll spell a
minute; it’s all going dark.” He sat down. An
hour later someone shook him, but he was stiff
and cold.
It was a night of horror and doubt. There was a
muse in the shelling. One in delirium was singing
a marching song far out in front—
My mother told me
That she would buy me
A rubber dollie,
A rubber dollie,
But when I told her
I loved a—
A machine-gun rattled somewhere, and suddenly
stopped—
But when I told her
I loved a soldier ——
Tiie voice rose an octave —
She would not buy me
There was another burst of fire and the singing
ceased.
It is powerful writing, and in describing
the miseries of that Somme winter, the
coldest for 30 years, and the privations of
the troops in the Flanders mud. Downing
is equally graphic—and grim. But he is
not always grim. This picture of the First
Division going into action at Lihons on
August 9 stirs the blood like the sound of a
trumpet:—
At 11 a.m. a new attack was made along the line.
It was not a pleasant prospect, for we were tired,
and our artillery was not yet present in, full strength.
\\ e had lost half our numbers in casualties.
At last the 58th and 60th, who had been following
us through the fighting, lined our trench. Over
they went. There was hot fighting. We were
mounting the parapet to follow, when a runner hur-
ried through the trench. “From Captain to
a’.! platoon-sergeants: Don’t go over.” We won-
dered. Then we looked behind us.
And there was the First Division in artillery
formation, dotted over the ridge a mile behind. The
waves in their regular patterns stretched backwards
for thousands of yards, and sideways for miles. No
one who has not seen a full division advancing “in
depth” down the slopes of the hills can know the
majesty of the sight. On they came. They passed
over us. It was 20 minutes before the last wave
went through.
“Best of luck, Bth Battalion.”
“Thanks, boys.”
Their fresh faces contrasted with ours that were
so grimy and wan. They strode on, and on, and on.
Shrapnel eddied and flashed and puffed above them,
bullets ripped through their formation. As one man
fell another stepped into his place, without slacken-
ing, without hurrying, outwardly calm.
They extended into single lines and swept forward
to Lihons Wood. We saw them charge with the
bayonet, far away. A frog croaked from a weedy
ditch. A bird began its song.
One recalls Napier’s noble description of
the Battle of Salamanca. The Australian
whose nulse does not beat faster after read-
ing such a passage is only fit to sit among
the truculent pacifists of Sydney’s Munici-
pal Council. Repulsive as it is jn many of
its aspects, there is still romance in war.
The more one reads about the Diggers, the
greater is one’s respect for them. Downing
points out that “the vast majority of Aus-
tralian battles were fought by men who had
gone hungry and sleepless for days,” and
that many of these famished and war-worn
fighters—to the shame of Australia —were
“convalescents taken before their time from
hospital owing to the shortage of reinforce-
ments.” Macneil reminds a forgetful people
that, undermanned and overwrought as it was,
the A.I.F. never lost a trench. Much has been
written about the Australian soldier’s lack
of reverence for saluting and brasshats and
feathers and pipeclay. Here is an example
of his splendid, if irregular, esprit de corps:
On September 20, 1918, we were informed of the
intention to disband the 21st Battalion to reinforce
the other units in the Brigade. After 31 years of
active service to break us up was to break our
hearts. Instructions were received on the 24th
that we were to march out to the other battalions
the following day. The whole unit took the extreme
step of refusing to carry out this order.
After consultation, it was decided that the officers
should report to their new units. The men, who
were not now officially recognised, held a meeting,
and decided to maintain discipline, to carry out all
routine, and to obey every order with the exception
of marching out to another unit. It was also decided
that any man who gave offence or went absent with-
out leave would be drastically dealt with by his
comrades. For the whole of the 25th September the
battalion was under the command of C.S.M. W.
Trevaseus, D.C.M., and during that time we carried
on. At 6.30 p.m. the C.O. -was informed by the
Brigadier that the disbandment would remain in
abeyance. The news was received by the unit,
assembled at Battalion Headquarters, with deafen-
ing cheers.
Ten days later these “undisciplined colonials.”
now reduced to three companies, each
barely 100 strong, but still the 21st
Battalion, took Montbrehain, a key-position
in the last line of the Hindenburg defences.
with a loss of 24 killed and 107 wounded.
In the presence of such heroic constancy,
even a leatlier-lunged, peace-at-anv-price
crank, of the tribe which in June, 191 S,
decided to make reinforcements an arguable
question and to put it to the vote, should
feel some pride of race, some contempt of
self.
Gault’s book deals with the soldier out
of the line, the Digger in his hours of ease.
The padre had a genius for devising puzzles,
charades, parlor games and the like, and con-
trived in this way to amuse large bodies of
warriors who hadn’t lost the zest and
resilience of youth. He arranged competi-
tions in which the wits and philosophers of
the battalions, were artfully encouraged to
set down their thoughts on war and life,
and thereby learned “what a splendid result
Australia !h,as reaped from its modern sys-
tem of State education. I have ’stunted’
with ( i.e ., entertained) the English Tommies
a great deal in the Y.M.C.A. huts, and with
the Americans and Canadians, too, but I
have never found the equal of our men in
mental alertness, felicity of expression and
power to visualise a subject.” Of Digger
wit he quotes the following examples, some
of them original, some otherwise: —
Absence makes the heart grow fonder —but not the
C.O.’s heart.
It is a long lane that has no M.P. in it.
The proverb that the two-up school sweats by:
“Two heads are better than one.” •
Many a man can change his mind, but lie can’t
change his shirt.
Whenever I see stars I always think of the time
my wife’s husband came home from France unex-
pectedly.
Remember the thin red line, and keep it out of
your pay-book.
The narrow duck-board track is considerably safer
than the wide corduroy road.
But the Diggers weren’t all careless
cynics or easy-going hedonists. The padre
found many of them thoughtful and observ-
ant men, fond of reading and very suscept-
ible to natural beauty. He used to take
parties of them into the forest at night to
read Keats and Matthew Arnold and listen
to the nightingale. On one of these occa-
sions he was met by the Base Commandant
at Havre, who asked what the company was
doing and where it was going. “Sir.” replied
the chaplain, “these are two hundred and
fifty Australian soldiers who are lovers of
beauty, and are going into the woods to read
some good English literature,” and he records
that “the Commandant looked at me as
though he questioned my veracity.”
Making
When the last great word is said in
economies it will be found that poetry is
the best food and necessary clothing of the
human race. The old Scripture which says
that man shall not live by bread alone has
found an echo in the philosophies of every
age. All kinds of physical, mental and
spiritual additions to bread have been tried
to eke out the diet of thinking man. The
devices run from French cookery and musi-
cal comedy to Plato, grand opera and vers
libre, with popular fiction and the picture-
palace thrown in as side-dishes; but when
a man begins to analyse his own balance of
satisfaction and hunger and makes an audit
of his spiritual accounts, the credit side shows
just the amount of poetry that there was in
each source of alleged enjoyment. The
poet is first of all the maker, the creator, as
the original Greek word implied; and just
what a man makes of anything with his own
mind is the extent of his satisfaction in it.
That such making links up with rhythmic
thought, and so links up with rhythmic
forms, which we call verse forms, is a
secondary matter; the primary one is that
the delight of life lies in creating something
out of its subtle essences. All men do not
write poetry; but all in moments and in
flashes make it. That is the reason why
the writer of poetry brings delight to his
reader. The reader reads himself into the
lines of the. writer and catches a sudden
uplift that satisfies a spiritual craving; for
every reader finds a different undertone in
the same rhythm and carries on the thought-
suggestion into a different place. That also
is the reason why no two critics ever see
alike and no writer ever quite agrees with
any commentator in the opinion expressed
of his own work. But the written poetry is
necessarily only a very small part of the
potential poetry of life, though it stimulates
and inspires so much of the rest. Man, lifted
above the animal, lives in his thought, and
whenever he really makes a thought he
touches poetry. The first man who thought
of fourpence-halfpenny had a rhythmically
musical thought about it; and though that
thought has done so much to kill poetry ever
since is was essentially poetical once. Sifted
down and examined in this way it becomes
clear that poetry and progress are two names
for the same thing when looked at from dif-
ferent angles; for all mental movement and
life are of the stuff of poetry,'and all evolu-
tion beyond that on the animal plane is
dependent on the poetry that is in the race.
The ancient Irish did not distinguish between
poetry and science until they fell into line
with foreign ideas; and the blending of the
two notions was far less a confusion of
thought than it might at first appear. The
chief thing in addition to bread—including
in that figurative term a reasonable amount
of potatoes and beef —by which a man can
live is the spiritual ecstasy of a new thought
essentially his own. In the greater
economics of the future room must be pro-
vided for the raw material out of which that
ecstasy may be woven. The poets of to-day
and yesterday are, in fact, the primary pro-
ducers on whose labors more than upon any-
thing else the future of the race depends.
The ages of stone, of bronze and of iron are
almost over; the ages of mathematics, of
chemistry, of wheels are slowly going; the
ages of mind, of grander spiritual adventure,
of sweeter vision have hardly dawned. But
a great singing throng are battering at the
doors of the new heaven and the new earth,
and they will presently open and let mankind
into a wider realm of greater endeavor, of
bigger making, of truer poetry.
D. M W.
(Continued on page 28.)


a.
v
Moderately-priced Modes at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Further delightful examples of the Season’s Fashions
at Anthony Horderns’ are illustrated, incorporating
perfect style and price moderation that attract every
woman. If you cannot personally inspect these offerings,
consult our Fashion Portfolio—a copy will be nosted
you free on request.
We Pay
Carriage to
any part of
N.S.W. on
Family
Drapery
and Fashion
Goods: On
Inter-State
and Island
orders we
pay carriage
to the
nearest port.
D »
127
Dl 27. —Particularly
Smart and Becom-
ing this Saxe-toned
Check Skirt, fash-
ioned from the popular
Sponge Cloth; the
Panelled Front is
decorated Blue Buttons,
likewise the fancy belt.
Price ... 35/-
‘S'
a
r-
r\
J,
< '
ass
JlK.l
D
1334/37
r~~
tj
ft*
Turn
DK5s
a
11 'Y' V ,
6761
1 1
It >
w
m
403 'C<
0
Whatever
your require-
ments may
be Anthony
Horderns’
can supply
them at
prices that
are the
Lowest in
the Land,
commen-
surate with
the High
Standard of
Quality that
character-
ises every-
thing we
offer.
D 4°3. —-Smartly-designed Frock of White Voile,
daintily trimmed with Filet Lace, Insertion and Pin Tucks:
the belt is finished Crochet Buttons.
Price 69/6
D676l. — Becoming Robe of Floral Voile, Fichu
Collar of White Voile, with hemstitched fold of self
material. Panel Skirt is finished with dainty frill on hips.
Price 55/.
H226.—Close-fitting Style in
Taffeta. with soft Crush Crown and
Draped Brim. Silk Pin. Colors:
Black, Navy, Rose, Saxe!
Price 27/6
DIS 34/37. —Dainty Frock in Colored Voile, Block
Check design, carried out in Rose or Saxe. Inlet Vest and
Pipings of White Voile. Finished Crochet Buttons.
DBs^/~ Serviceabl e Coat and Skirt Costume in
Striped Summer Suiting. The Belted Coat has
long roll collar and deep band of material with stripes
running horizontally; Plain, Well-cut Skirt.
Price 67/6
Service to our Patrons is the dominat-
ing principle at Anthony Horderns’.
Our aim is to give absolute satisfaction
with every order entrusted to us.
Satisfaction
and Economy
are assured
when you
make your
selections at
Anthony
Horderns’.
Our Mail
Order
Department
will give you
good
service.
H33B.—Smart Shape in Fine-
quality Pedal Tagel, effectively
trijjimed good Faille Ribbon. Colors:
White, Mastic, Saxe, Rose, Navy, Black.
Price 19/6
972
D972.—P r e 11 i 1 y
Made this White
Voile Skirt, featur-
ing small and large
tucks ; gathered at back ;
finished belt, sash ends
and bobs.
Price . . 22/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


BETTER FOOD Means
UB
I
&
1
uf N
I
'•• •
SPECIALIZED STOCK FOODS
Better Health and Bigger Profits.
A superior feed that would increase health of your stock, is worthy of con-
sideration.
Perfect health is an essential to high production.
A food that does improve health of your stock, and will increase your milk
yield, is a profitable investment.
An Illinois practical feeding experiment showed that cows fed with the
properly-balanced ration gave 47 per cent, more milk than others fed with
the same quantity of unbalanced ration.
Scientific feeding should therefore increase your milk yield alone by practi-
cally one-half.
The benefits to be derived from feeding @ Specialised Stock Foods, which
are correctly-balanced rations, is obvious.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET ON SCIENTIFIC FEEDING TO STOCK FOODS DEPARTMENT A.
Agents—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Clarkson,* Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., King
Street, Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of
N.Z., Ltd., Sussex Chambers, Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Ltd., Featherston Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
DNSkdoum^.
rveociTT
PAWRAMATTA
Vfxeboyoixihebag
guarantees quality
e
HEAD OFFICE KING ST SYJM-:Y(\«>rks:Eirramate)
UNSEEBOHHyi
iWi
/AEDCITTU
RVJRAMATTA m"
°JAe Jboy on theJb&o
guarantees quality


An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help your di-
gestion and take care of the over-
load, by taking one Pinkette, the
little sugar coated laxative pill after
a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are
greatly superior to old fashioned
medicines which over stimulate the
liver and, when their use is stopped,
leave it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the stomach
or cause griping.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
isr;
Distinctive
Footwear
ABBEY SHOES
represent the perfection of an ideal to _
combine appearance, fit and quality, to
give comfort and ease.
The boot illustrated is a superior quality
Patent Oxford Bal., Dull Calf Leg.
Stocked in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
PRICE: 65/-
All Patent .... 67/6
Tan 607-
Postage Extra. Write for Our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CELEBRATED
S 3
v
;
The Rapid Cure-for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young-—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House.
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street
Perth, W.A. r {
1
Most Modern of
MOTOR BAGS.
An up-to-date and convenient
Handbag like this will add much
to your comfort on a motor trip.
It is made in smart shape from
real Morocco, lined with Silk
Poplin, and fitted with a Purse.
Size 9in. x 6in.
PRICE 217-
Mention X5O when ordering. We
pay postage throughout Australia.
Send for our illustrated catalogue.
The AMERICAN BAG STORES’Ltd
THE BAG- STORE. . CORNER.— KING' - AND PITT STREETS.
STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST. • • SYDNEY" ARCADE. GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
n
/
Have You a Kit of Veterinary Items on Hand?
All stockowners must know that there is a constant need for Veterinary Items. How handy,
therefore, would it be to have a Kit of Veterinary Needs on the premises—how profitable it
would be to you.
Here, then, is your opportunity to acquire this convenience at a lower-than-usual cost. We
have made up an emergency Kit comprising the most useful Instruments and Appliances,
which, if purchased separately, would cost a good deal more than the Kit price. Write us
for full details—to-day.
COMPLETE OUTFIT FOR £l2/10/-. Freightage Extra.
DENYER BROS.,
The Reliable Vet. House of Auatralia
281 George Street, SYDNEY
a
fis
Mr. Edison spent £600,000
to perfect the New Edison
Mr. Edison spent this enormous sum in seven years, patiently making experi-
ment after experiment, that you might enjoy the world’s greatest music in your
home, just as you would hear it in the concert hall.
In the New Edison is embodied his success, for this marvellous instrument
actually Re-creates the human voice so perfectly that even the most critical
of musical critics cannot detect the difference. Audiences of over two
millions say its Re-creation is an exact duplicate of the original artist when
performing side by side.
This surely is the instrument you want —write for- free Literature of the New
Edison, to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Createst
Marvel of
the Age.
376
mm
m
m
So Simple a Child
Can Work It.
376
Hand Embroiderer
Embroiders in a day what would take a month
by hand.
Works anything on anything.
From the Finest Georgette to the
Thickest Curtain Material.
Printed instructions with every machine; also free demonstrations
and teaching at Malcolm Buildings, Malcolm Lane, near Bridge
Street, Sydney; and at Room Six, 6th Floor, Stock Exchange
Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE (WHOLESALE ONLY) :
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd., Malcolm Place, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Carved Cabinet.
This is dead wood some dreaming man has
wrought,
Shaping and smoothing, to a strange, still
thing;
No more it feels the sweet stir of the Spring
Pushing through fibres with dim being
fraught,
But in the tide of human effort caught
Drifts in man’s wake till years and chances
bring
Last dissolution to the shreds that cling,
And down to dust go shape and shaping
thought.
But for the while it has illusive life,
Dreaming impassively the years away,
A chill, fair, fictile offspring of the knife,
Shielded alike from growth and from decay,
Decked and embellished by remorseful Cain,
Shrouding in art this brother he has slam.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
The River.
As I stand beside the river,
W Hiding, wenciing to uie sea,
Though its waveiets dance and quiver,
Gleam and play, it is the giver
Of grave themes and dreams to me.
Deeper than its mirrored willows
Are the thoughts its deeps suggest
As it seeks the drowning billows,
Where tae sea-f&wl nightly pillows
Weary head on weary breast.
What is life with its endeavor —
Grief and bliss, and toil and play?
First a peek and then a river.
Never turning backward, never
Halting on its seaward way.
What are men but flotsam sailing,
Drifting leaves and blades of grass,
Seeking rest but ever failing,
Mimic wakes behind them trailing,
Soon to perish, soon to pass?
Love may link and friendship tether
Soul to soul and heart to heart,
Drifting on down-stream together;
Oft there comes a change of weather
Sundering each from each apart.
As I stand beside the river,
This the thought that comes to me:
Though its wavelets dance and quiver,
Still, forever and forever.
It is glad to reach the sea.
R.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
I Wonder.
I wonder if the plant within the seed
When sheltering walls begin to waste
away,
Shrinks back in apprehension and dismay,
When knowledge comes that now its life is
freed.
I wonder if the chrysalis that dwells
Imprisoned ’neath the surface of the earth,
Un knowing that winged beauty stirs to
birth,
Would rather stay within its prison cells.
I wonder if the bulb that feels the might
Of life within its hidden, earth-bound
heart
Feels frightened at the thought that it
must start
And force its way to freedom and to light.
I wonder if the bird, safe in the nest,
When knowledge comes that it is time
to fly,
Looks up with fearing at the unpropped
sky
And longs to stay where it knows peace and
rest.
I wonder if the ship with anchor weighed,
As it lies panting at the wharf’s safe side,
Feels dim alarm at knowing it must ride
Upon the perilous ocean without aid.
I wonder if the heart that stayed too long
Within the fickle gleam of friendship's
smile
E’er lingers when it learns of secret guile,
That fain would hold it down amongst the
throng.
I wonder if the soul in flesh fast bound,
Before its pinions it unfolds and .spreads,
Still hampered by material woes and
dreads.
First hesitates to leave the well-known
ground.
For be it bad for us or be it good,
The plane we know so well we hold too
dear,
But stern Advancement with new-sharp-
ened spear
Cuts ties that would have held us where we
stood.
And yet we fear to tread the unknown way,
So safe was all we loved and all we knew ;
Narrow the rut where long we lived and
grew,
In its security we yearn to stay.
Yet shall the fear prevent our growth, our
flight?
Without the cleavage no success would be;
Without the flinging off. no destiny
Could bear us upward to the plains of light.
Alone the bird must try its widespread wing,
The friendless heart must journey forth
alone;
Alone the soul must fare to the Unknown,
For Progress is a solitary thing.
MAOBILAND,
MARIEDA BATTEN.


Cl"
<S:
m
o'
\
33
m
-
\
*
«.
V 2
<sv
N>
&
\
s*
K
>5
X x
W
\
t?
*S
8<
\
V\\ N
o
0
f
K-
o
c_
r
to
X
0=
\
■\£>7
1111
De Garis aeroplanes to Europe to introduce
AJD.F.A. Dried Fruits and The Little Normey.
THE fame of Sunraysed Fruits is not confined to Australia.
Their high quality is the result of the fine standard set by
the A.D.F.A. association of growers. The markets of the world
are willing to take all the dried fruits the Sunraysed Settlements
can export, and the time is not far distant when these dried fruits
will be as well and favorably known by the people of America
and Europe as they are known to the housewives of Australia and
New Zealand.


The Bulletin
Registered at the •General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.YV. Vustralia. for Transmission by Post a* & Newspaper.
A'oe. 41.—N0. 2120.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1920.
Price 9d.
QUEER COMPANY.
“The League of Nations Treaty is bracketed both with Prohibition and Anti-Prohibition and with the Irish Question as
an issue of the American Presidential election.”


The Bulletin .
THE NATIONAL AOSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
'‘Australia for the White Man.”
Piinced and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Qo., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George .Street! Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as . a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.I/;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Hblborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.B.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, l/2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Golden Gate News Agency, 7 19
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los. Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
llnng Kong.
Singapore. — John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, l/oz., lid., and
id. each additional Soz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1920.
J. COOK’S SINKING FUND.
Joseph Cook, Federal Treasurer, vice Wil-
liam Watt, resigned in disgust, has declared
for a sinking fund of 1 per cent, to
wipe out the war debt in 37 years.
If the money can be invested at a
steady 5 per cent, it will achieve its
purpose in the time, or rather less, and at
4i per cent, it would do it in 39 years. That
is, always provided hungry and dishonest
Governments don’t loot the fund or suspend
the payments, or give up feeding the fund
out of revenue and make the payments out
of new loans. The Cook theory is that the
war debt should be paid off because it is
unproductive of revenue, and a good many
other loans, both Federal and State, should
be paid off because they are unproductive
also. In fact, some of them are worse than
the war in that respect. The East-West
railway, for instance, not only swallowed
up the loan money spent on it, just as the
war did, but per cent, has to be paid on
the money over and above interest to cover
working expenses, so it is a war that goes
on after peace is declared, and seems likely
to do it for ever. To put the Desert Rail-
way on a sound footing it wants all its debt
paid off, and about £7,000,000 (which is
more than the debt) invested to buy it an
annuity; then it could j ust live. This work
and others like it call for a sinking fund
with great intensity. Then a very large
amount of State debt was spent on works
which yield no more cash revenue than the
war did, and even if they paid at one time
by enhancing the value of jmblic' land, the
land has long since been sold and the money
spent. Most of the balance is represented
by things of one sort and another that only
pay interest on part of their cost, and the
other part requires a sinking fund just
as the war liability does, and for the same
reason. Indeed, it is safe to have a sinking
fund against even the paying part of the
liability, because (1) new inventions may
make railways, telegraphs, etc., obsolete and
quite useless; (2) an enemy may come and
destroy them, as happened of late in so many
places; (3) the creditor may demand his
money back and refuse to renew at any
price.
<* * *
Joseph Cook’s belated discovery that
unproductive debt ought to be paid off is a
dreary reflection on the blindness of his
political career, and the epitaph of a mis-
spent life. He has been continuously
in State or Federal politics for 29 years.
Off and on he has been in State or Federal
office during the last 26 years. If he had
read the compound-interest table when he
first entered Parliament, which apparently
he didn’t, he would have known that a
1 per cent, or 14 per cent, sinking fund, if
then introduced, would have practically
wiped off the N. S. Wales debt or any other
debt by 1920. If he had possessed the most
elementary gift of prophecy he would have
known that the old, happy, easy days of
34 per cent, loans couldn’t last, because
the prosperity was abnormal, and such
times never last. He would have known
that credit decays as debts accumulate, and
that a country which makes its loans renew-
able at fixed dates, so that whether the price
demanded is 3 or 13 per cent, it must be
paid, is gambling with destiny, and is a
financial member of the Suicide Club in good
standing. And he would have said that to
pay 5 per cent, straight off—34 per cent,
interest and 14 per cent, to redeem all * the
existing debts as they fell due—might save
the State from paying 7 per cent, in interest
alone to renew debts for the redemption of
which no provision had been made. Then
he might have promulgated these things and
possibly formed a party that would carry
them out. The Bulletin was preaching
the sinking-fund gospel before compara-
tively-young- Cook got his first port-
folio. It made no impression on com-
paratively-youug Cook, who is the kind
that foresees things backwards and antici-
pates after the event. He is even capable of
anticipating the Norman Conquest. Now
the very partial and wholly belated conver-
sion of comparatively-old Cook leaves this
paper cold. He will go out of office soon
and leave somebody else to find the debt-
redemption money. If he had seen the light
when he was a State Minister in 1894, or
even when he was Federal Minister in 1909
and Prime Minister in 1913, he might have
found some of it himself.
A special reason why Cook’s sinking-fund
idea should be extended to every liability
that Australia possesses is that the Com-
monwealth be mixed up in State
finance, some of it very bad finance. During
the war all the States except N. S. Wales,
the Eternal Nark, agreed to let the Com-
monwealth do their foreign loan-raising for
them and have a voice in fixing the amounts.
This was practically unavoidable, for in the
rush of war-finance the British Government
became very hostile about peace loans
put on the market because selfish politicians
wanted money to find public jobs for war-
shirking constituents. As a result the Com-
monwealth is the responsible party and puts
its credit, which is the credit of a State like
Victoria, behind the promissory-note of a
State like Queensland. The Commonwealth
found Queensland nearly £8,000,000, whereas
the Brisbane Government, when it offered
the London market only its own secu-
rity, couldn’t find anything barring a trifle
promised by its own bankers to pay
interest with. The Commonwealth divided
among the ‘ States nearly £23,000,000
raised by the issue of notes, including much
money raised by compelling the joint-stock
banks to buy its wholly unprofitable and
unusable £lOOO notes. Commonwealth bor-
rowings represented, quite apai’t from the
war, by such assets as railways, which don’t
even pretend to pay working expenses, let
alone interest, may be even more expensive
on renewal day than they have ever been
yet. So it might be cheaper to make an heroic
effort and put eight millions a year aside
for redemption instead of three, and forestall
a great deal of the renewal business which,
after all. may swallow up the odd five mil-
lions in extra interest, just as the sinking-
fund money which wasn’t applied in young
Cook’s time to remove the debt is
all required now for increased interest
without removing anything. Eight mil-
lions or a little more would represent 1
per cent, on the whole Australian financial
incubus as it stands to-day, Federal and
State, which is the amount that Father
Bull nominally pays on his incubus, though
he really pays more. It isn’t too much con-
sidering the risk of State infants being left
on the Federal doorstep. And the new Con-
stitution should give the Commonwealth
absolute and permanent control of the State
loan industry. At present it has indefinite
responsibility and no control worth men-
tioning.
THE MALADY OF WHICH GARDEN
IS A SYMPTOM.
When the Sydney ironworkers turned down
Saturday toil to bask in “God’s sunshine”
and Garden’s moonshine, the following in-
structive colloquy occurred at the Town Hall:
Garden : The works are yours. You are willing to
work. If the boss refuses you, go back and take
control.
A Voice: We are not solid enough.
Garden : What we want is united action. If the
boss asked me to sign a paper urging me to agree
to work 48 hours I would sign it.
A Voice: And break it afterwards.
Garden: Yes.
A Voice: I will not sit here and listen to such
remarks without a protest.
Another speaker from the rank and file: Tell the
workers something practical. It would be impossible
to seize the works. There is not a man here pre-
pared to grab the tools of production.
This engenders a suspicion that the Aus-
tralian worker has far more- commonsense
and common honesty than some of his
leaders. But if the implied superiority
exists, why does he select such leaders?
How is it that scatterbrained wreckers of
the Garden type hold their jobs? What is
the explanation of the strange paradox that
men capable, as the ironworkers showed, of
seeing through the ranting tomfoolery of
persons like Garden and Graves and of
rejecting it publicly and scornfully, allow
themselves to be rushed into stupid strikes?
Presumably the average wage-earner has a
craving for leadership which even Garden
and Graves satisfy, in some sort. Along
with trade unionism there has developed a
guild sense which is stronger, in many cases,
than the civic sense. Camaraderie and the
fear of ostracism recommend “my union
right or wrong” to the generality of union-
ists as sound industrial doctrine. And the
belief is deeply implanted in their minds
(and if this belief didn’t exist Garden and
Graves would find their occupation gone)
that under the existing social order they
are not getting a fair deal.
* * # #
That belief is at the root of the industrial
unrest. Until it is eradicated we shall
always have industrial unrest. And it is
not going to be eradicated merely by girding
at the Gardens and the Judds, or even
by denouncing strikes and the Saturday loaf,
or by inveighing against over-indulgence in
gambling and drink. Neither will it be
banished by inviting the workers to stand
appalled at the immensity of the war debt
and assuring them that all is for the best
in the best of all worlds. The workers know
better —nt least, they think they do, and
it comes to the same thing. Their young
men are in revolt against a destiny which,
as they see it, condemns them to be hewers
of wood and drawers of water for a material-
istic employing class. The older men are not
rebels and do not desire the overthrow of
the present system, but even the most con-
servative of them is conscious of inequalities
which make him feel bitter. It is easy to
rail at the workers for drinking and gam-
bling to excess, but great numbers of them
drink little and gamble not at all. Their
life is a constant struggle to make ends
meet and put a little by in case of misfor-
tune, and under present conditions many are
unable to manage it. Thousands of them
are in the position that they can’t adequately
feed, clothe and house their wives and
children on their “basic” wage. When unem-
ployment comes it finds them on the rocks.
Should they die untimely their widows have
to go out working or eat the bread of charity.
And harsh contrasts hit the wage-earner in
the eye wherever he goes. He passes a
draper’s window stocked with five-guinea
hats and 30-guinea gowns—and he thinks
of the faded finery of his wife. His news-
paper tells him that a Melbourne draper
has died leaving estate valued at £1,800,000,
and also that a family of 16 at Frankston
(Vic.) is ' living, under circumstances of
heartrending poverty, in three small rooms.
And he says to himself that a system which
admits of such monstrous extremes and glar-
ing comparisons is, in its existing form a
crime against humanity and will have to
be mended or ended.
* * # #
And the wages man hasn’t a monopoly of
these opinions. The salaried man is think-
ing along the ' same lines. In no calling
is the attitude more common than in jour-
nalism, strange as it may seem to readers
of newspapers which appeal to. the sym-
pathies of the sectary and the provincialist,
the press-agent and the wholesale trader.
Perhaps the staid gentlemen who do the heavy
leaders believe in the blind and hopeless
Toryism they expound, but the young men
are heralds of revolt. They are Uaborites
to a man, which may help to explain why,
in spite of the 1916 split and the 1918 back-
down and Mannix and Minahan and
Wren and Considine, the Labor party is
coming back. Few if any of them have a
cut-and-dried scheme of reform. And pro-
bably no such scheme is needed. Some
few employers have established provident
funds for their men. Others are experiment-
ing hopefully with profit-sharing. Welfare
work has been introduced successfully at
Port Pirie (S.A.) and other places. Co-
partnership might be usefully attempted in
some industries, and national insurance
against invalidity, unemployment and death
would be a great stride forward. National
insurance was rejected before the war
because of the expense. For a tithe of the
cost of the war it could have been estab-
lished, and every slum in Australia could
have been blotted out besides. The worker
does not begrudge the cost of the war or
the sacrifice he made (and his was the
greatest sacrifice, after all), but he stub-
bornly refuses to admit that 59,000 Austra-
lians, mostly workers, died to pull the
chestnuts out of the fire for the employer.
In a confused and inarticulate way he
realises that the old world went to pieces
in August, 1914, and that things can never
be the same again. He is adapting his
thoughts to the changed accord-
ing to his lights. His mind is struggling
with new ideas, some good and some bad;
at the worst it is a 1920 mind. But no
one can accuse our Employers’ Federations
and Chambers of Commerce and especially
those who do most of the talking for them
of being in tune with the new times.
They have nothing to offer the people but
the old barren box of tricks and “necklace
of negatives.” With a few honorable excep-
tions they don’t trouble to think, thought
being too burdensome a process in a dis-
tracted but entertaining world. Intellectu-
ally they haven’t moved beyond the old care-
free days before the upheaval—the days of
hobble skirts and tango teas. The world’s
agony has taught them nothing. Beyond, the
pleasant microcosm in which they golf, jazz,
joy-ride and make money, tremendous forces
are in motion, a new scheme of things is in
the making, . but for the most part they
are blind—blind !
THE WARDERS AT THE GATE OF
WHITE AUSTRALIA.
North Queensland, with its many harbors,
its big rivers, a tableland which provides
a great part of it with a splendid climate
and its generous fertility, is by nature the
garden of Australia. And it is desperately
necessary that Australia should do much gar-
dening there, for this country alone in all
the world, and against the solid opinion of
the Peace Conference, has made it a gospel
that the white man can live and work and
multiply and be happy in the tropics, and
it owns 1,150,000 square miles of such terri-
tory on sufferance or on trial till it proves
its case. It holds all this because, so far,
. e vital question hasn’t definitely arisen,
in India, China, and Japan or elsewhere,
and we don't know whether when it comes
to a show-down the people who run the
Empire in London will think it cheaper or
more expedient to fight in order that Tropical
Australia may be kept White, or to follow
J ts natural bent and its own convictions and
the line of least resistance and make the
Iropical North turn Brown. This, as things
stand now, they could do with a stroke of
the pen. Some day Britain will have to
choose, and the. choice will almost certainly
turn on Australia’s success or failure. If the
most beautiful and fertile part of this con-
tinent remains empty, while rather barren
regions further south fill up, it won’t be set
down to the incapacity and misgovernment of
a race which had every chance to govern itself
well, but to the old gag that white men and
tropics don’t agree.
The census is now nine years, old and
out of date, but the lists of voters suggest
something about the Northern failure thus
far:—•
Electors in Six Bia South Queensland
Electorates.
1915. 1920. ~•
Bulimba .. .. 7946 12,318
Windsor .. .. 7029 10,455
Nundah .. .. 6220 9,447
Oxley .. .. 6434 8,319
Toombul .. .. 6215 8,966
Toowong .. .. 6198 8,355
40,042 57,800
Electors in Six Bio North Queensland
Constituencies.
1915. 1920.
Charters Towers .. 3261 3348
Cook 3123 3483
Queenton . . ~ ' 3115 2743
Kennedy . . .. 2926 2698
Chillagoe .. .. 2093 1151
Burke . . .. 2049 2004
16,566 15,422
Figures like these are being hawked round
Queensland to demonstrate the tricky
methods of the Theodore (late Ryan) Gov-
ernment, for by a curious coincidence it is
the two-men-and-a-dog electorates which
vote most consistently the Theodore (late
Ryan) ticket, while the big ones tend the
other way. Thus Premier Theodore mis-
governs Queensland as the representative of
Chillagoe (1151 voters), whereas Opposition-
leader Barnes represents Bulimba (12,318
voters). In a State where there was some
semblance of equity either Barnes should
be 11 men or Theodore should be reckoned
the eleventh part of a man. It is owing to
these wild anomalies which are not found in
the Federal roll, and'owing to the imaginary
or ghostly voters who also are not found
on the Federal roll, that Queensland, when
the Ryan-Theodore crowd counted the vote
for State purposes, was two-thirds Labor of
the Ryan-Theodore kind ; when the Hughes
crowd counted the vote for Federal purposes
—well, the Queensland figures in the House
of Reps, are now two liyanites out of 10,
and Ryan isn’t one of them.
But apart from the squalor and slime, the
position is of urgent national importance.
From the day of the Ryan-Theodore advent
the rush to the city commenced and the
emptying of the North began. Out of every
10,000 Queenslanders there were 2609 in
Brisbane by 1918, and judging by the elec-
toral rolls there are more now. For the
present Ministry was never a constructive
Government of the kind that ails the indus-
trial machine so that it will run by itself
as the planets do. It is a concern of personal
interviews, personal loamdoles, personal jobs
and personal supervision. From .the first
it was necessary to be on Fiiielly’s door-
step or not far from Huxiiam’s doormat
to avoid being out in the cold, and the con-
sequences have been lamentable. Whether
Queensland runs State butchers’ shops or
not is no concern of the Commonwealth,
nor are a thousand other similar things. But
the Commonwealth is most vitally concerned
in the electoral system which produces these
results —not, however, because it produces
these, but because it may produce others.
It requires a certain coptrol over State elec-
toral matters in order that it may prevent
a State Government, which 1 exists by the
votes of a small minority, distributed. on
artistic principles to serve as a majority,
bringing the credit of all Australia into dis-
repute’ with, for instance, veiled hints of
repudiation. And it also requires the power
because otherwise a Government which does
not truly represent Australian sentiment
may get into the position of being the trustee
of the White Australia policy; and that
involves far too much national peril to be
tolerated.
MANCHURIA.
On the western side one runs into Man-
churia from the blinding stretches of the Gobi
Desert. I use the present tense, though pro-
bably few foreigners travel on the trans-
Siberian line now. The days in which I knew
it were those just after the Russo-Japanese
War, when Japan was feeling the first impulse
of expansion, and every out-going Japanese
boat was crowded with emigrants to the new
territories that the vernacular press of Kobe
and Tokio had dowered with romance.
But not even the Japanese could wish to
push into the Gobi Desert. The line runs
through endless miles of shifting sand that
looks like snow, and on all the wide horizon
there is not a trace of life in plant or tree.
A few black specks appear in the distance,
perhaps, and enlarge into caravans'of shaggy
camels tended by Mongol drivers. To stand
on the rear platform is to be covered with
clouds of fine grit, which sand the throat and
smart painfully in die eyes. Even behind
the double-barred windows of the train there
is no escape from it, for it penetrates like air
and turns the bed-linen into sand-paper.
Coming into Manchuria one enters a new
country. There are smooth hills covered with
thin grasses, torrential streams racing
through clefts in the ranges, and broad valleys
where loose-bloused Manchu boys tend their
herds of fiery ponies. And because the
engineers have followed the line of least re-
sistance the train zig-zags for hours between
butting cliffs that rise abruptly in points.
Crossing the Sungari one rattles into Khar-
bin. The Sungari is the chief river in Man-


ehuria, a long, winding waterway flowm o
northward into the Amur, and draining <
comparatively fertile stretch ot country. - t
Kharbin it is nothing but a narrow stream,
cluttered with sampans and all mannei ol
Chinese, and flowing on through flat stietches
of paddy-fields. A dirty, sluggish nvei wind
ing past a dirty Mongol town.
Rather mongrel than Mongol, though. A
couple of years before I was there
been one of the boom-cities of ‘ the East. By
day its flat streets bristled with lively com-
merce, and by night it flared with the lights
of eight theatres and half-a-hundred music-
halls and cafe chantants, where Russian
officers sat puffing at their tiny cigarettes
and drinking wine with their women. A re-
plica of Port Arthur before the siege.
The times had changed. The Russian
officer no longer walked with a swagger, and
the alleys of the town were marked with the
rather squalid signs of Japanese civilisation
—brothels, gambling-dens and tea-houses,
where low-class Japanese squatted in their
kimonos —while in the main streets the Japan-
ese were pushing the Mauchus off the side-
walks. Yet Kharbin was not within the
territory ceded to Japan by the Portsmouth
Treaty. The nearest town within that terri-
tory was 150 miles further south. But Japan-
ese influence did not stop at outlined
frontiers, and restless feet were pattering
north, conscious of the prestige their victories
had won for the race.
There was no mistaking that prestige. I
remember sitting in a Kharbin restaurant
talking to a Russian officer of Engineers
who had been in Melbourne, and while the
Manchu waiter was attending to us two
Jananese officers entered. Instantly he left
us'and began to fawn upon the new arrivals.
They gave their orders with contemptuous
arrogance, and the waiter slithered off in
desperate haste. But that arrogance was
even more marked in the attitude of the
immigrating Japanese coolies, who were con-
vinced that they had been tricked out of their
rightful spoils by the treaty that ended the
war. They seemed intent on conquering in
peace what had been denied them in battle.
The tide of that immigration slowly ebbed
in the years that followed. Northern Man-
churia was not particularly suited to quick
colonisation by the Japanese. It lacked coal,
timber and metals, and there was very little
agricultural land that was not already cov-
ered with paddy-fields* Besides, Japan had
already in Southern Manchuria more terri-
tory than she could colonise in half a cen-
tury. There were belts of rich timber along
the Yalu, and some of* the finest wheat coun-
try in the world —wheat country that Japan
was engaged in spotting with flourmills
before the war was over. But even there
the tide of Japanese immigration spent itself,
and the Government was content with
exploiting the surface riches and keeping out
the commerce of other nations.
Since the last war the impulse, of expan-
sion has come again to Japan, but this time
it has found wider fields. The grassy, tree-
less hills of Northern Manchuria will not
satisfy it now, for the Japanese are not. a
pioneering people, and like to tread where
other feet have gone before. They find more
profit in affixing themselves to a civilisation
already developed than in breaking new
ground. And in Eastern Siberia the ground
has already been broken by the enterprising
white man. The fertile lands of the Ussuri
Valley above Vladivostok have been planted
with wheat; and the gold of the Yablonoi
Mountains, the coal of Suchan, and the salt
of Saghalin have been partly laid bare.
Vladivostok in the old days had the look of
a Western American town. There was the
same restless energy and crude vigor, even
the same straight-brimmed felt hats and
store-made clothes, and the Siberiak seemed
to be developing into a new type, as distinct
from the Russian as Australians from their
parent races.
But, sooner or later, in controlling Eastern
Siberia Japan will control more than new
material resources. It will be an important
strategical base in the diplomatic campaign
against China. With a secure footing in
Shantung, sanctioned by the Peace Confer-
ence. she will now be able to squeeze
Northern China in a pair of nut-crackers;
or if less drastic measures seem more expedi-
ent, to sap its independence and wean it
from the implacable and Republican South ;
though if we can believe Sun-Yat-Sen. the
struggle in China has ceased to be a matter
of North and South, and has come to a
quarrel between factions, each of which
believes the other’s leaders to have been
bought by Japan. In a country that has
a long tradition of bribery this means a
subtle and prolonged quarrel in which only
the nearest onlooker will benefit.
There are those who look with equanimity
on Japan’s little intrigue with China, and
its expansion into Eastern Siberia, believing
that it is better to have Japan’s attention
fixed on these countries than on our own.
“While the serpent is swallowing one bird.”
says the Chinese proverb, “there is time for
many to escape.” But there is no comfort
in it; for the serpent’s appetite grows by
what it feeds upon. The Japanese, as I
said before, are not primarilv a pioneering
people, content to settle new territories and
develop them. They are fundamentally com-
mercial and home-loving. But (strange as
the corollary may seem) they are subject to
sweeping waves of imperialism. If it were
merely a matter of natural expansion,
Southern Manchuria would last them for our
dav and generation. Unfortunately it is
something less rational than that.
VANCE PALMER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Retrospective Crime.
In the composition of its Anti-Profiteering
Bill the N. S. Wales Government evidently
decided to be drastic at any price and re-
trospective to the limit. It isn’t great at
introspection, else it might be ashamed of
what is inside it, but at retrospection whales
aren’t a circumstance to it. The retro-
spective or back-dating habit first developed
in the industrial courts. Increases of wages
(not decreases) were made to commence
from some previous date, with the result
that goods which had been sold or contracts
which had been completed and paid for
suddenly cost more than anybody had
figured on. As the Australian employer of
union labor couldn’t always recover from
the parties he had sold to (sometimes they
were foreign parties), the loss was his.
The Queensland Government went one
better. It not only passed a law to
increase the rents specified in its pas-
toral leases, but dated increases back so that
the old rent receipt ceased to be a receipt.
Now the Storey Ministry in its Anti-
Profiteering Bill proposes to go back nearly
six years and make certain actions criminal
as far away as January 1, 1915, though the
doer of them didn’t know they were criminal
then, and as a matter of fact they weren’t.
The clause reads as follows:
In any case in which the President of the Court
finds that the ultimate price or accumulative profits
on the sale of any necessary commodity or the price
or profit at any stage of the production, manufacture
or distribution, or the profit on the supply of any
necessary service is, or has been for any period since
January 1, 1915, excessive or unreasonable, he shall
forward to the Governor a report and the facts and
circumstances upon which he bases it. IF the
Governor shall so require the President shall, in
respect of any prices or profits referred to in any
such report, proceed to require and report what
selective tax upon the profits made shall be imposed.
It is a fine, comprehensive scheme, and these
features stick out of it conspicuously like
quills upon the corrupted porcupine :
(1) The President of the Court will presumably
be the Government’s own appointee.
(2) He will report unreasonable prices when he
feels like it to the Governor, which is the Governor-
in-Council, which is the Government itself at the
last resort.
(3) If this ruling institution feels nasty, which it
may do in the case of a political enemy and may not
in that of a friend, it may order the President, its
own man, to give the offender beans.
(4) Then he may recommend the penalty to be
anything, much or little, nominal or ruinous; where-
fore there should be a mighty rush to grease or
attempt to grease the palms of the little tin gods
who hold the financial fate of everybody in their
hands as much as does any Asiatic sultan or other
scoundrel. Presumably since the law cannot reach
the partner or shareholder who died and whose estate
was distributed and spent, or who sold out and left
the country in (say) 1919, the confiscation of the
six years’ profits will be at the expense of the man
who has just come in. Businesses with this liability
hanging over them should sell cheap.
(5) Necessary commodities will be defined. Pos-
sibly things that influential Government supporters
deal in will be avoided as much as possible.
(6) Anyhow, it is fair to assume that, though the
manufacturer will fall in like one who steps through
the roof of a bottomless pit, that absolutely useless,
not to say nefarious, shark, the land-jobber, who
employs hardly anybody, makes all the profit he can,
grows nothing, and lies about the value of his
goods most shamefully, tvill be exempt. He doesn’t
“produce,” he doesn’t “manufacture,” he doesn’t
“distribute” as even the importer does, for he
never delivers a farm or an allotment at the buyer’s
address. This person often advertises his greed for
the last profiteering penny by putting up his goods
to auction, and the price he gets for them has no
relevance at all to the price he paid for them. An
Anti-Profiteering Bill which doesn’t even touch the
man who has made a big fortune in a few years by
jobbing in farms and allotments isn’t likely to do
much good, however useful it may be as an instru-
ment for small men’s malevolence and an aid to
private extortion and blackmail. It is difficult to
see that any men could ask for such powers except
with a bad purpose in view.
There are enough rules and regulations to
create an ocean of expense in account-keep-
ing, to provide billets for a horde of sup-
porters and to make life a chronic man-trap
and a perpetual spring-gun to people who are
not land-jobbers, lawyers, bookmakers,
punters and racecourse hangers-on, picture-
show men, chronic loafers and the like. The
Court of Inquisition will be a new Court, so
there should be a chance to select a new kind
of Judge. Sweeping provisions are embodied
including the right of entry to premises by
day or night in search of commodities sus-
pected of being wrongly stored. This appa-
rently includes bedrooms, for commodities
are wrongly stored in all manner of unlikely
places, under the bed being one. The penalties
on & third conviction run as high as five
years’ penal servitude, but a person who
knows the ropes should escape even a first
conviction, as happened in a recent case
about which there was some fuss. But
though many clauses are loaded none
is loaded quite so heavily as the retro-
spective one. If the community gets
accustomed to be vengeful and retrospective,
it is hard to say where it will stop. A new
Government, composed partly of men who
suffered heavily under this law, may even pass
an Act in 1925 making some of the doings
of the present Ministers retrospectively
illegal and hitch on five years’ gaol and con-
fiscation of all property as a penalty. It
may go so far as to appoint a new Court and
an angry new Judge to sit without a jury
and hand out the penalties. Anything may
happen when one is retrospective.
Jettisoning the Gas-mask.
In the quieter sectors of the Western
Front there was a type of soldier who,
regardless of all warnings and threats, went
about without his gas-mask. In some cases
nothing happened. In others the gas came
over and the man who took the chance
passed out. On Thursday night the Navy
Estimates were tabled in the Representa-
tives, and they indicate that, for some time
to come, Australia will go without its gas-
mask. The sea-going fleet is to be whittled
down to a light cruiser (the Sydney), a
training cruiser (the Brisbane), six de-
stroyers, half a dozen submarines (with a
parent ship, the Platypus), and the sloops
Geranium and Marguerite. And no more is
being done in the way of base-construction.
The Assistant-Minister for the Navy re-
marked with engaging frankness at the con-
clusion of his effort: —
It was recognised that the naval proposals out-
lined in this statement could not be regarded in any
way as adequate for the defence of the country.
Yet the country has never been in greater
need of defence. Senator Millen is leaving
presently to attend the Assembly of the
League of Nations, and he is not to be
allowed to even discuss one of the most deli-
cate and urgent questions which will be
brought before the national representatives.
As regards the White Australia policy, his
instructions are to take up, in face of the
powerful Asiatic delegation which has been
appointed to secure its reversal, the attitude
that there is nothing to argue about. In
view of the facts that the Japanese naval
budget for this year totalled £30,000,000,
that a further £100,000,000 is to be spent on
bringing the navy up to the “eight-eight
standard,” as well as £110,000,000 on muni-
tions and fortresses, Millen’s role in a
game where all the trump cards are guns
and ships would be tragically absurd but
for one fact. The fleet which is supported
by the sorely-hit taxpayers of Britain is still
there; and the Commonwealth Government
can still whine for its protection on the
ground that this country is too poor to run
an effective one of its own, the money being
needed to buy N. S. Wales votes on such
issues as the creation of a capital city at
Canberra. There was a type of soldier in
Flanders who, when caught without his
respirator or with one that he had allowed
to become defective, grabbed the property
of someone else. In this matter of naval
defence that is exactly what the Australian
Government proposes to do if the need
should arise. It is unfair to a race which
is virile and self-respecting or nothing, and
it is unfair to the British, who have a
stupendous bill to meet, the aftermath of
their financial effort during the war. And
it is risky to both parties. In fact, the
policy’s only real excuse is that it may
attract the votes of the unthinking and the
selfish, which is about the poorest justifica-
tion any policy can have.
♦
Sinking Funds and other Jack-o’-
Lanterns.
Something may be forgiven an Australian
Treasurer who raises a sinking fund from
10s. to 20s. per £IOO in order to wipe out
the war debt in 37 years instead of 50, and
who removes a few items from loan expendi-
ture to revenue account. Still there are
things to- complain of in Joe Cook’s Budget
and these are some of them :
A payment of £3,200,000 a year may, with com-
pound interest, pay off a debt of £335,500,000 in
37 years, the accumulation of interest making it
equal to £9,000,000 a year. But it won’t if some
Treasurer steals or suspends the sinking fund; and
in the 30th year the sight of £224,000,000 of
saleable or pawnable securities on hand may be
irresistible. It would be better to pay £9,000,000
a year and make a bonfire of that amount of securi-
ties right off. This would be straight-out perform-
ance of so much per annum, instead of a little per-
formance and a great deal of promise—the promise
that Governments will be honest for 37 years and
that the next war won’t happen for 37 years.
A scheme which estimates the expenditure for the
current year at £5,600,000 more than the revenue
has its drawbacks even if there is an accumulated
surplus to dissipate. The year’s deficit is a vast
amount bigger than the payment to the sinking
fund, so things go back £2,300,000 instead of im-
proving by £3,200,000.
Despite all reforms or proposed reforms, loan
expenditure is still going on at a rate which promises
to beat the sinking fund in a canter. In other
words, even if the sinking fund isn’t prigged, it
looks as if the Commonwealth may have as much
debt in 1957 as it has now—only a different debt.
The heavy export duty which ought to be levied
on coal, our scarce and essential and irreplaceable
asset, hasn’t eventuated, though no more commend-
able way of raising revenue could be imagined. Now
the N. S. Wales State Government is poking round
to see if there is some method by which it can do
this, so that one State may collect all the money and
spend the same, not to reduce debt but in riot and
childish experiments. If it succeeds it will have
circumvented what seemed the most armor-plated
clause in the Constitution and given the misery of
duplicate taxation a further boost.
The abolition of the baby bonus is still waited for.
The one tax that is practically abolished among
many increases is a tax on luxuries —on theatre-
tickets and on the bits of pasteboard which admit
the rising generation to see the picture of the Yan-
kee shooting affray or the horseplay of the Yankee
comedian. In no white man’s country in the world
is pleasure so cheap as in Australia, and in no
country is so much time spent on it while work
remains undone.
Also the inflation of the note issue, by putting
compulsion on the joint-stock banks to hold vast
and needless quantities of notes out of use while the
Treasury holds an absurd quantity of gold out of
use to make the reserve look big and solvent, is not
only to continue but to grow worse.
Of all these matters, however, the deceptive-
ness of the sinking fund, if not the worst, is
the most conspicuous. Nothing is more will-
o’-the-wispy or jack-o’-lanterny than an Aus-
tralasian sinking fund. Westralia has a
statutory fund, and gets round it by having
a corresponding premeditated deficit every
time. Maoriland years ago began boldly to
borrow and put into revenue an amount
equal to the accretions to the fund, so it ceased
to be a fund save in name. Every State
has a sinking fund ; but in N. S. Wales, S.
Aus. and Tasmania they accumulate back-
wards and become mysteriously smaller.
Britain in the peace days went on the plan
of applying so much each year to the service
of the debt —enough to pay interest and
leave a solid balance for reduction purposes
made this a fixed charge on revenue.
Then it applied the surplus the same way.
The securities, which were bought up as
cheaply as possible, weren’t hoarded and
compound interest collected pn them. They
were destroyed right off lest Ryan should be-
come Premier some day and re-issue them or
suspend the interest. By some kink of
honesty among British financiers the scheme
worked so well that £120,000,000 was paid
off between 1903 and 1914. But long as is
Australia’s list of imports not one bale of
Honest Kink appears among them.
--
The Amusement Tax.
No item in any previous Federal Budget
was ever so contemptuously criticised as the
present proposal to modify the amusement
tax. From everybody whose reasoning
powers are not perverted by pure selfishness
came the question :7 “What’s the meaning of
it?” The increase in the attendance at all
places of amusement since the tax was im-
posed is beyond dispute. Picture-shows are
booming. The rush of low-priced patronage
to the saddest sort of musical comedy and
the most deplorable form of spoken melo-
drama has been commonly remarked for
months past. All the protests of entertain-
ment-mongers when the tax was first imposed
have been utterly falsified. All the talk of
Tudor. M.H.R.. concerning the cruelty of
raising a financial barrier between poor
children and Charlie Chaplin and the
cowboys was proved to be even more clap-
traptious than it had appeared at the time.
In short, the amusement tax, as an expedient
suited to times of reckless expenditure, was
a conspicuous success. Hence the astonish-
ment of the public on reading the words of
Joseph Cook :—•
The Ministry has decided to revise the entertain-
ments tax. A distinction is drawn between what is
pure sport and the more educational forms of enter-
tainment. Accordingly, the taxes will remain un-
altered on racing, dancing, skating and other
miscellaneous forms of sport. It will be removed
. almost wholly from pictures and from the smaller
entrance-fees to theatres and concerts. The limit
of exemption on these latter is placed at 3s.
Why? Surely the time has not come when
a National Parliament favors those from
whom it can extract favors! Yet certainly
this National Ministry has not taken the
trouble to avoid the appearance of this evil.
The V.R.C., having ceased to respect a hypo-
critical legislature which sanctions a postal-
service ban on Tatt.’s while levying toll on
Tatt.’s prize-winners, recently withdrew its
grant of free admission to Federal legisla-
tors, a “courtesy” which had been freely
availed of. The tax will remaip unaltered
on racing. Nor has skating—a harmless and
healthful exercise—ever shown that it had
much attraction for legislators, who are
mostly over skating age. The tax will remain
unaltered on skating. But any member of
either House can command the tender solici-
tude of almost any of the big theatrical or
picture managements; and musical comedies,
revues, howling melodramas and pictures
dealing with such problems as “Are two
wives better than none?” are to be classed
under the new tariff as “the more educa-
tional forms of entertainment.” It is too
thin. The educational benefits to be derived
from sensational bellowdrama, on the stage or
screen, are barely perceptible; but the pro-
fits of an amusement tax are as real as the
income which the charities obtain from the
totalisator. Why, then, is a law which the
public bore so gaily to be amended? Why?
Another Doctor’s Dilemma.
There is to hand a report of a burning
speech on the Federal Constitution and other
matters delivered at Bendigo by Dr. Earle
Page, who sits in the Reps, on behalf of that
part of N. S. Wales which demands separa-
tion. The kernel of the speech was that the
clause which makes the subdivision of huge
properties like N. S. Wales and Queensland
practically impossible was smuggled into the
Constitution by fraud. The people’s elected
Federal delegates never put it there, but it
was inserted afterwards by self-appointed
meddlers —State Premiers who were city men
to the last meddler. To quote the doctor:—
Provisions were inserted into the Constitution
by these city politicians making the bondage of the
country to the capital city perpetual... .So many
anti-national compromises were inserted (against the
advice and wishes' of all the real Federalists) to
suit the State leaders, who saw in any possible loss
of trade from their capital city a threatened diminu-
tion of their own importance and the abolition of
their patronage, that in 20 years every State capital
has grown to hold practically half the population
of its State.
Which is all very true. But when these
narrow-minded State Premiers held their
hole-and-corner meeting they put more than
that daub on the work of the people’s dele-
gates. Another one was the provision that
the capital should be in Dr. Page’s State of
N. S. Wales, all others being disqualified.
That was a concession to one State only,
while the other had at least the merit that it
applied to all the States. It was ten times
the worse sin of the two, for it wasn’t a
sacrifice made to buy a State’s adhesion--
N. S. Wales had declared by a sufficient
majority (sufficient according to its voluntary
agreement with its neighbors) that it would
come in without bribery, and the fact that
its city politicians broke faith didn’t alter
the fact. On the other hand, the pledge
that no State should be subdivided without the
consent of its own Legislature was the price
of Queensland’s adhesion. Previously the
Banana province had been standing out.
There is, however, an impression to-day that
Dr. Earle Page is among the politicians who
clamor that the Canberra arrangement is
sacred and that the people must not interfere
with it. While the anti-subdivision arrange-
ment made by the same unauthorised city
meddlers at the same time and. with far more
excuse is accursed, the other is sacrosanct.
If the idea is to swap Canberra-ite support
in return for New State support it isn’t any-
more respectable than the things done by the
unauthorised conference of city Premiers. If
the view is that anything is justifiable
so long as it pays—well, it is a common view,
but some people don’t think much of it. Not
a soul advocates Canberra on the ground that
it is the best or even tenth-best site in Aus-
tralia or the best in N. S. Wales. The only
plea is that the sacred bond must be kept.
If that is so then the other bond is holy also
—and in that case what happens to Dr.
Page’s new State?
The Increasing Clangor of the Curfew
Bell.
About 120 cycle and motor-cycle mechanics
met. at Sydney Trades Hall to discuss
working conditions in their trade. Some
men had been taking work home with them.
The A.S.E. issued its ukase on the matter
after the meeting in a phrase which might
have emanated from W. M. Hughes him-
self :—•
This practice is against all union principles, and
cannot be allowed to continue.
It is an indication of the close spiritual
affinity which exists between the union
boss and his capitalistic enemy. Both
want to put as many shackles on the public
as they can, though for different reasons.
The big employer likes early closing, pro-
vided it is universal. It gives the big organ-
isation a chance to save in lights and a
hundred other details while enabling it to
tear just as mudi money off the public
during the daylight hours. The union boss
is extremely jealous in respect of the same
principle because the majority of his con-
stituents don’t want to work more than 48,
or 44, or 40 hours per week, as the case
may be, under any circumstances whatever.
Now, it is perfectly right and reasonable
that employees should not be required to
work overtime for wages, and. therefore,
that employing institutions should be corn-


V
Centre
Life and r~,
tf,e£P-
\fm ui
i--3
n
ft
:.?
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff —-Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
“Jrfustra/ia”
Wfnler Garden
pelted to close at a given hour. But there?
is no sense or justice in the proposition
that an individual should be prevented from
working for himself in his own time. Its
imbecility may be seen more clearly by con-
sidering some logical implications of such
a system. If an engineer can't work on a
motor-cycle part at home, why should he
be allowed to garden, or paint the fence or
build a fowlhou.se? And if manual workers
are to be bound down to a rigid schedule
of hours, why not brain-workers? The
Judge who considers and writes his judg-
ments at home; the barrister or soli-
citor who takes his briefs back with
him for study after dinner ; the union offi-
cial who writes his manifestoes and the
architect who draws his plans out of
office hours —all these are taking advantage
of their less strenuous rivals for money or
fame, or both. There is a stage where every
alleged struggle for freedom merges into
despotism. It comes suddenly in revolu-
tionary countries: gradually under constitu-
tional government. The autocrats always
claim —as the A.S.E. officials no doubt did
at the Trades Hall recently—to be inspired
by an ambition to shield the poor and the
oppressed. But, as things work out, the
classes whom their activities usually benefit
most are the rich and the lazy. More-elas-
ticity is needed in our industrial laws and
regulations. The applying of curfew bells to
communities is a political habit which grows
with use. It became a curse in Russia,
and it is already getting to be a nuisance
here.
The Scheme that Was Always Too Good
to Be True.
“It is believed that if Japan fails to win racial
recognition, giving immigrants equal rights and
privileges with those enjoyed by other countries, she
will withdraw from the League.”— New York cable.
Few are likely to doubt it. There is always
a catch in these millennial devices. They
resemble the get-rich-quick proposals which
are laid before trusting bucolics at Show-time.
What a priceless boon an effective League
of Nations would represent, for example, to
Australia! Here is a country amply cap-
able, on its present showing, of supporting
50,000,000 white people. Its 5,000.000 have
framed a set of rules designed to keep it
white and to prevent the wage-standard
being lowered. Many of them are so punc-
tilious on the second issue that they more
or less oppose any sort of immigration ; and
the general effect is to severely limit the
inflow of overseas workers. The discrep-
ancy between the Commonwealth’s desire for
independence and the reluctance of many of
the electors to make the requisite sacrifices
was beginning to be pretty widely felt before
the late wax’. Then came the League of
Nations scheme, and every loafer and
shirker in Australia breathed again. It was
such a remarkably allimng brick; so large
and so delightfully bright! It meant that
people, like ourselves, who happened to have
got hold of one of the most valuable proper-
ties in the world, were to be freed of all
obligation in respect of it. The chief reason
for hastening to populate it was past, because
thei’e were to be no more wars, and hence
no further fears of invasion. For the same
reasons the fleet might be allowed to go
gradually out of commission, and compul-
sory military training be abolished. It all
amounted merely to a cowardly blinking of
facts. The attitude taken up by the Japan-
ese will inevitably be that of the have-nots
all over the world in the future as it has
been in the past. They will accept our
White Australia or any international legis-
lation which limits their expansion only so
long as they cannot enforce its withdrawal,
And anyone but an insane optimist might
have known it from the first. Meanwhile,
with £150,000,000 woi-th of trade to pro-
tect, as well as our coasts, and with an
obsolescent navy, we are 12,000 miles from
the main British fleet. Is any better argu-
ment needed why the Government should
steel itself to find that small part of the
bill for the defence of these seas which was
allotted it under the Jellicoe scheme?
The Modern Value of the Rifle.
“Ex-Permanent Officer” holds his ground:
Why does Captain Dakin quote Lord Roberts as an
authority on modern tactics ? These have developed
more since the Field-Marshal’s death than in the
whole of the previous century. As well quote Julius
CiESAR in support of sword and shield. The little that
Bobs did see of the German war made him call not
for rifles but for machine-guns, heavy artillery and
ammunition. As to General Holmes, to my personal
knowledge he was always an advocate of musketry
regulations as opposed to club methods.
The money wasted on unfit clubmen is the very
core of the question. If, as Captain Dakin says,
90 per cent, of eligibles enlisted from the rifle clubs
there cannot, on his own showing, have been more
than 33,000 eligibles ip the whole N.R.A., and yet the
membership during the war was proudly announced at
between 100,000 and 120,000. The writer has r.o
objection to the really eligible 30,000 being subsi-
dised, provided they habitually use the service rifle
under service conditions (as far as possible) and give
some time to visual training, target recognition^,
distance —judging, fire-control and other essentials at
present ignored; but he contends that the money
spent on others is wasted, and that’ in the present
state of our national finances it is unpatriotic to ask
for it.
The fact that the Defence Department issues the
weapon used by the rifle clubs does not make it a
service one. It is the rifle discarded by the militia
about 14 years ago. As to ammunition, Captain
Dakin admits that riflemen prefer one year’s output
to another of Australian cartridges, which simply
means that their accuracy suffers unless they are
familiar with the ammunition used. How, then, is
precision to be maintained on service where the
stuff used may be American, Canadian, British and
Australian on different days?
Lieut.-Col. Ross, whom the N.R.A. advocate quotes,
thought so much of the rifle that in the Australian
(Infantry) Corps School which he commanded in
1917 he gave half a day (four hours) of a 30 days’
course to rifle-shooting—and that in a miniature
range—three days to the Lewis gun, and one day each
to 'the Mills bomb and the Stokes mortar. Lieut.-
Col. Blacklow, too, though an international rifle-
shot, showed his love for that weapon by leaving his
original unit, which was armed with it, and be-
coming C.O. of the 3rd Machine Gun Battalion.
The Men Who Sow the Seeds.
There are only seven pounds of greasy wool
in a suit of clothes, and the Australian
manufacturers have been getting the wool for
14.23 d. a pound, or Bs. 3sd. the suit-length.
CIRCE POISONING THE WATERS
Yet when the roll of tweed reaches Snip’s
shop a charge of anything from £8 to £l2
a suit is exacted from the customer. J. F.
Guthrie, of Victoria, who put the case for
the sheep-men in the Senate the other day,
admitted that most of the manufacturers
were playing the game, but he didn’t say as
much for Flinders-lane, In fact, he main-
tained that the Himalayan price of Jinks’s
suit and Mrs. Jinks’s costume was largely
due tq Flinders-lane. The gentle importer,
said Guthrie, had been proved to be mak-
ing 100 per cent, net profit on Australian
tweeds, and Heaven knows what he has
been dragging in from the imported article,
And he adds swindling to burglary—piles the
Pelion of fraud on the Ossa of profit-
eering—by passing off Australian tweed as
British. “Go into a tailor’s shop,” said
Guthrie, “and ask for Australian tweed, and
nine times out of ten you can’t find out
whether it is Australian tweed or not. I have
asked shopkeepers in my own town to give
me tweed made by the xllbion or some other
Australian mill, and they have shown me stuff
and will not tell me where it is made. They
say the Flinders-lane people will not tell
them where it comes from. There is absolutely
no doubt in my mind that the majority of
the Australian tweeds have been sold as
imported, and imported tweeds are about 80s.
per yard.' It is a crime and an imposition
on the public that Australian tweeds and
Australian clothing should be at anything
like the price they are.” There are a few
people in this country who are trying to save
it from the revolution which has come to
half-a-dozen countries already and threatens
'others, including Britain. But there are
other people, in Flinders-lane and elsewhere,
who seem determined that their efforts shall
not succeed. If these people don’t realise
what risks they are taking—-and apparently
they don’t—it is up to their employers
federations to warn them about what is
happening elsewhere in the world.
“Aus-in-Ind” (Calcutta) : “The Cry of an
Australian in London” (B. 5/8/’2O) applies
equally to this land of dirt and mystery.
Japan monopolised the Indian market during
the war, with the familiar result that people
will now buy anything that is not Japanese.
But if he wants to get the vast trade that is
waiting the Australian manufacturer will
have to put up the goods more attractively.
The quality is all right, but the labels and
packing are not up to the mark. This applies
chiefly to jams, biscuits and cheese. _ In. a
grocer’s shop the Australian jam, with its
unvarnished label and general air of dingi-
uess, does not invite further inspection like
the English and American jams, with their
varnished labels and clean tins, although the
Australian article is cheaper and better.
Another thing: Australia will have to deliver
the goods according to specifications. In
one instance wine, ordered on the strength
of beautifuliy-got-up samples, arrived in all
sorts of bottles, mostly with chipped necks
and without caps, and it was poor stuff at
that. Blighters responsible for this sort of
thing ought to be shot as enemies of the
country. I am pushing an Australian busi-
ness here, but I would return with great
pleasure to be one of the firing party.
A MOTORIST with 19 convictions to his dis-
credit has been lined up at a Sydney police
court and fined £s—a penalty that such a
man would feel about as much as an artisan
might the loss of half a crown. It was
in accordance with the police-court conven-
tion which obtains in the case of milk-
adulterators, who are hardly ever gaoled,
though they, like motor-hogs, are potential
murderers. On a second, not to mention a
twentieth, conviction for attempted theft or
burglary, the offender automatically goes up
for a considerable term —an interesting indi-
cation of the relative value set by the Bench
on public life and private property.
—"■■■■ -—♦-
The cabled news last week that Sir Wil-
liam Meyer had been appointed first High
Commissioner for India in the Ignited King-
dom demonstrates once more two flagrant
truths: (1) Royal Commissions are usually
mere official devices for side-tracking a
justly-incensed public in the interests of an
offender with a pull. Lake school labora-
tories, they produce nothing much except
stinks. (2) The more disastrous adman’s
mistakes the bigger his rewards are' likely
to be. Sir William Meyer is the Indian
civil servant whom the Mesopotamian
Report held —after Lord Habdinge, who has
just been appointed to the Paris Embassy—
to be most to blame for the horrors due to
short supplies and no supplies which over-
whelmed the British troops before and after
Kut. Some of his weaknesses, according to
London Times, were that “he was obstruc-
tive, bureaucratic, unpatriotic and disloyal
to the Empire.” And the report called for
his prosecution. Instead, he was retired
temporarily on pension, plus a “good service
pension,” and he now gets the greatest gift
at the disposal of the new Indian regime.
The same phenomenon was noticeable in
the A.I.F. It is a feature of all militarist
institutions, and of any form of government
in which the popular control is weak. Also,
it is one of the most reliable producers of
mutiny in the one sphere and of Bolshevism
iu the other.
♦
In appreciation of unionists who are play-
ing the game:—
A certain type of Sydney alderman and union
official is distinguished by a truculent hostility to
returned soldiers. In the House of Reps, on Sept.
10 Marr, M.P. for Parltes (he is also a D.S.O.
and an M.C.), commended to these scowling pacifists
tlie bright example of IVestralia. “When the Repatri-
ation Department,” said Marr, “started its vocational
training system, representatives of the Westra-
lian unions waited on the Deputy Comptroller anti
said, ‘Are you prepared to allow your trainees to
join our organisations?’ The Deputy Comptroller re-
plied that he could see no objection, whereupon the
unions said they would provide vocational training
for returned soldiers themselves. To-day they are
training a number of them in various trades. It
would redound to the credit of unions in other
States if they would follow that lead. In N. S.
Wales the bricklayers have declined to allow more
than 100 returned soldiers to receive training in
that trade. Yet the demand for building is so great
that we shall not be able to cope with it for many
years.” Incidentally, the Westralian unions haven’t
suffered for their generosity; the head of the State
Labor Rureau reports a shortage of labor in every
trade. But they didn’t count the cost, or worry
about gain or loss, when they decided —more power
to their elbows I—to1 —to give the Diggers a square deal.
♦
“Bildad”: In a recent Bulletin “D.E.”
rather ridiculed the crusade against venereal
disease on the plea that there, is really very
little of it as evidenced by the death records.
In an ordinary year syphilis is debited with
170 to 180 fatalities for all'Australia. But
it isn’t those who die of the complaint that
constitute the danger ; it is those who live
with it. Venereal disease is notifiable in
Victoria. Notification has been the law for
over two years, so presumably much clean-
ing up has been done. Yet the month of
July. 1020, showed 004 new cases, which
seems to be at the rate of 7968 per annum
in a small State containing between a fourth
and a third of the Commonwealth's popula-
tion. If the complaint was scarlet fever or
childbirth or even fractured leg a great part
of one month’s crop of patients would be dis-
charged next month, but the V.D. victim
hangs on and accumulates. On a population
basis Victoria has about 53 deaths per year
openly ascribed to this trouble, so that leaves
for a year, 7915 persons with it who don t
die—79ls persons with a malignant capacity
for spreading infection and making more
human wrecks.
+. - t /
“Albatross” from his station on the bridge:
The idea of the Seamen’s Union of making the
ocean a constituency might secure a few fat billets
for Tom Walsh and his pals; but the skilled labor
of the sea would remain as it is—without Parlia-
mentary representation. If a master, officer or
engineer stood as a candidate he would be out-voted
by four to one on every ship in Australia. What
is the Seamen’s Union growling at, anyway ? It
has had more “direct” representation in Parlia-
ment than most industrial bodies. First there was Bob
Guthrie and then Con Wallace. Guthrie was
dropped after years of faithful service because he
couldn’t see eye to eye with the extremists on the
conscription question. When Wallace stepped aside
for T. J. Ryan he was made shipping-master at
Brisbane, a snug little back-water job that many
an old skipper, tired of the sea, would have been
glad to have moored to.
Does the sea need direct Parliamentary repre-
sentation? I don’t know! My sympathy has been
always with the under-dog, and I have worn out
sundry nibs and spoilt reams of paper clamoring
for better conditions for seamen. But if I sought
the suffrages of the electors of (say) the division
of Pacific, subdivision of Bass Strait, where I am
best known, I would like to be as certain of win-
ning first prize in Tatt.’s as I would be of forfeit-
ing my deposit. And I, too, am a wage-earner,
working for a monthly wage that is about half
the amount the donkevman on the same ship gets.
But being a certificated officer I am supposed to be
a stranger to Democracy. In these dunderheaded
days it is not the man that counts, but his job.


The Patent "Curvilinear” Concentrator
has a capacity of |-ton per hour on fine feed, and up to 1 £ ton per hour on coarse feed.
Considering that the overall length of the Table is under 12ft. with a width of only 4ft. this performance is remarkable.
The small space occupied is a great consideration where Mill area is limited. The Mineral-saving power of the Table is as extraordinary
as its capacity: as witness these two unsolicited letters:—
“Mount Bischoff Tin Mine, Waratah, Tas., 12/7/’2O.
“We now have your Table in operation on low-grade concentrates, which have been subjected to a roast treatment
for elimination of the sulphides. This class of pulp is usually regarded as the hardest to re-concentrate without
a high tail loss. Your machine is doing excellent work, and is all you claim for it both in efficiency and tonnage.
“The Table has been running constantly and is highly spoken of by the mill staff.
“C. W. GUDGEON, Mine Manager.”
“Mascot Tin Mine, Tingha, 9/8/’2O.
“The recovery even crowding the ‘Coarse’ Table as we do, is remarkable; the feed is almost 2in. deep all over
the riffles yet there is scarcely a trace of tin in the tailings. The ‘Fines’ Tables has a speed of about 300 with 2in.
stroke. We are saving absolute slime tin like paint, usually considered only possible on Vanners.
“ROBINSON BROS.”
Sole Msi.nufactu.rers and Patentees:
GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camper down (City), Sydney,
Mining, Electrical and General Engineers.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
As Federal Parliament House can’t find accommo-
dation for the army of officials, typists, party leaders
and sundries, it is proposed to add a few apartments
to the north wing over the Hansard quarters. Speaker
Johnson in mentioning the matter the other night
painted a doleful picture of the makeshifts to pro-
vide privacy for several people who do not need it.
but he was careful to hint that the new rooms
Would be of a temporary character and wouldn’t
affect the sacred “compact” to move ultimately to
Canberra. The modest sum set down for the addi-
tions, which won’t relieve the pressure worth tup-
pence when completed, naturally pleased the Can-
berra crowd, which feared that the Government was
trying to make the House so comfortable that the
yearning for Dryberra would die away just when a
majority for it is assured. But there was no need
for any trepidation. Hughes wouldn’t do anything
to raffle Austin Chapman.
The present N. S. Wales Government has
sold its soul to the private landlords and
rich importers of the capital just like the
rest. Thus there is a hazy State guarantee
of 2s. 6d., or ss. or 7s. Gd. (nobody is quite
sure which) per bushel of N. S. Wales wheat
provided it comes to Sydney—in other words,
provided it goes into the N. S. Wales pool.
But round Deniliquin and Matlioura the
wheat has to go into the Victorian pool
because there is a railway to Melbourne and
none to Sydney, and in any case Melbourne
is 300 miles nearer. And the iniquity of the
“up” rates and “down” rates for grain on
the N. S. Wales railways still endures —the
iniquity by which a farmer gets his produce
carried for almost nothing if he is sending
it towards Sydney, while the charge is some-
thing awful if it is sent further away from
Sydney. The Storey Government things
itself something extra in the way of broad-
mindedness, but it is really as narrow as
the thin edge of a shadow —the edge a ghost
shaves with.
The 44-hour-week conference in Mel-
bourne was handed some statistics that
should set it and everybody else thinking.
They were compiled by Chas. 11. Wickens,
census supervisor and compiler of statistics
of wealth and population, and they said
this: —
1913. 1918
Number of factories in
Commonwealth . . 15,536 15,421
Number of hands em-
ployed . . . . 337,101 328,049
Horse-power of engines
used 442,154 610,326
Value of output ..£161,560,763 £126,970,530
Having allowed that last solemn statement
to soak in, Mr. Wickens went on to say:—
Between ’l3 and ’l9 the diminution in the area of
wheat under cultivation was 3,200,000
acres, equal to 33 per cent.
~ ’l3 and ’l9 the number of dairy cattle
decreased by 100,000, equal to 5 per cent.
„ ’l3 and ’l9 sheep decreased by 10,000,000,
equal to 12 per cent.
~ ’l4 and ’l9 the weight of wool shorn
decreased by 50,000,0001 b.
„ ’l4 and ’l9 the production of butter
decreased by 17,000,001 b.
Those figures explain a good deal of the
H.C.L., but they offer no encouragement to
the 44-hour-week advocates.
The South Aus. Labor Party has formally
resolved, on the motion of Gunn, its leader in
the Assembly, that it “congratulates the Pre-
mier of Queensland on the stand he took in
the' Old Country in refusing to allow the
money-lenders to dictate the policy of his
Government in return for loan money.” But
if Gunn thinks that any concern can go on
borrowing money without letting the lender
have a say in the concern’s policy he is very
unsophisticated. Up to a certain point the
bank will lend a company money and ask no
more perhaps than to see its balance-sheet.
But when it is doubtful whether the concern
is going the right way there comes first a
demand for representation on the Board and.,
if that isn’t granted, for the repayment of the
debt. Of course Theodore was quite right not
to throw his policy away. But as Queensland
has already promised to repay nearly
£30,000,000 of debt before the end of 1927,
and as Theodore, instead of saving up money
quickly r is spending it prodigiously, what
does he propose to do if Cohen demands a
say in the State’s policy in consideration of
renewing the bill? You can refuse a man’s
terms when he proposes them ; but in this case
the terms have been accepted, and they in-
clude repayment in cash before 1927. That
is what borrowing means —the borrowing
that every Labor Government in Australia
has plunged into up to its ears.
.At tlip last moment Premier Theodore had
to abandon the notion of doing his election-
travelling by aeroplane. “Engine trouble,”
the papers called it. Theodore has no luck
in raising the wind.
Slightly the worse for wear and tear. Law-
son’s team (Vic.) managed to get through
the session by jettisoning some of the
principal Government measures, including the
Charities, University and Housing Bills. (It
was the fault of the Lazy House that the
THE HANDCUFF KING.
H.C.L.: “That’s right, gentlemen. Tie me clown as hard as you can. When you are
finished I will jump higher than ever.”
last-named was deferred.) The Assembly
is being dissolved to-day (Sept. 30), and
Lawson is dressing the window at Castle-
maine to-night to induce electors to patronise
Government candidates on October 21. At
noon on October 12 it will be known who are
starters. Under the Vic. electoral laws
candidates can, however, scratch themselves,
thus making sure of the safety of their £5O
deposit, up till four days before the poll.
When conditions allow Victoria will
borrow £4,000.000 for water supply, public
works, railways and electrification. The
120 railway odds and ends which will absorb
nearly three millions include a number of
works that ought to be paid for out of
revenue. The usual number of short cock-
spur lines and extensions appears on the list,
to be presently added to the long schedule
of new lines that do not pay. The mania
for reaching out after blackened stumps or
lonely pubs by the Vic. Railways remains to
be checked by Clapp, the new railway chief.
Where there is not enough likely traffic to
pay for the maintenance of a good road it is
assumed that there will be plenty to pay for
the working and maintenance of an expen-
sive railway: and nine times out of ten of
course there isn’t.
A few statements by cablegram from Dr.
Mannix in London (25/9/’2O)
He had been approached in his. retirement here
to make a pronouncement on the Irish question, but
he had no message. If he went to Ireland he
would endeavor to promote peace. So long as he
was detained in England out of touch with Irish
affairs he would not say anything. The British
flag covered atrocities and outrages in Ireland at
which the world stood aghast. Nothing was more
callous in history.... The present Government was a
disgrace to the Empire.
Thank goodness the reverend gentleman
didn’t say anything! If he had spoken he
might have made remarks or even dropped
into conversation.
Balfour, the British ex-Premier, lately
remarked that, though Soviet government in
Russia had made a heap of people poorer,
it was so wasteful that it hadn’t made any-
body richer. To this Tchicherin of the
Bolshevik triumvirate —Lenin and Trotsky
being the other two—was moved to reply,
pointing out that the Soviet Government
had done inestimable service to the poor by
giving them access to treasures of art hitherto
shut away in palaces. He didn’t say that
the new order wa.s turning out fresh treasures
to replace tin* old ones as they faded, or
admit that it was a long way for the
Crimean peasant to travel to gloat over the
treasures of Moscow; still, no doubt, there
was something in the Commissary’s conten-
tion. Anyone.who recalls how in the middle
of the recent drought the stricken cookies
used to flock to thf Cities and wallow in the
gems at the Art Gallery will understand what
a consolation 'a fine piece of porcelain is.
After the coming Vie. local-option poll it
will be'possible for one side of Elizabeth-
street to be dry and the other side wet; and
Bourke-street, which divides Gipps from
Latrobe, may also be wet on one side and dry
on the other. Under the six o’clock rule the
man who is making merry may by closing
time be, as heretofore, betwixf and between.
Pre-selection has led to a delicate situa-
tion in some Vic. State electorates. In
Barwon and Geelong, for instance, the sitting
member in each case is a pledged and militant
Prohibitionist. Electors, judging by last
election figures, are very evenly divided, and
on the Liquor question Nationalists them-
selves are also fairly evenly divided. It is
one of the quirks of Nationalist pre-selection,
that if nobody demands a selection ballot
within six months or six years or something
of an election the sitting member shall be
considered the pre-selected candidate. Liquor-
defenders, because they had not thought of
it, or perhaps because they had not heard a
rumor that preferential voting obtained in
Vic. State elections, lodged no claim. Never-
theless, non-Proliibitionist candidates are be-
ginning to come forward. One, Captain
Morley, lias nominated as Independent—but
on the National liquor platform (licenses
reduction, 6 o’clock closing and anti-shouting)
—and is insisting that true-blue Nationalists
cannot support a Prohibitionist and remain
true-blue. And local party-managers don’t
know where they are.
No harsher thing has been said about any
Government than the statement of Dr.
Cumpston (head of the Commonwealth
Quarantine Department) at the Medical
Conference, that Queensland had spent as
much on a single State pub as on the whole
of its health administration.
South Africa gives every encouragement
to the policy of picking the eyes out of Aus-
tralia’s stud-sheep flocks for the benefit of
her own wool-growing business. The Union
Government allows all money spent in im-
porting stud sheep to be deducted by land-
holders from their incomes when making
their returns for taxation purposes.
From behipd the Speaker’s chair: —
Frank Tudor has been a sick man of late, though
he is better now. As long aw he is in the House of
Reps, he will probably stay leader of the Labor
party, but if he has to drop politics T. J. Ryan has
the reversion of the job. There has been some
sounding of Tudor’s electorate of Yarra lately, and,
if anything happens, John Wren is to be pushed
forward as a most desirable Labor - candidate. The
prayerful members of the Labor party had therefore
better start supplicating that nothing happens.
The Federal Parliament’s desire for work
was too violent to last. After three weeks of
yelling at one another from Tuesday to Fri-
day, members have decided that they need
longer pauses for breath, so the Thursday
sitting has been reduced by two or three
hours, which isn't much in itself, but still
further delays the passage of Bills to the
Senate. When the Reps, were working full
time the now practically unanimous Senate
had great gaps of idleness ; with this further
slowing down it will for a time almost cease
to exist.
The Queensland Premier had another
election spasm on Friday. He declared that
after 5| years of Ins and Ryan s and
Fihelly’s administration the rottenness of
Queensland is so unparalleled that justice is
denied to all save the rich. In other coun-
tries the poor may get a look in now and
then, but in Theodore’s —never. Also, “the
Queensland Bar mostly consists to-day of
cormorants”; and The Bulletin trusts
that Theodore wasn’t thinking at the
moment of the figure marked on any of his
friends’ briefs. Anyhow, there is to be
a Complete overhaul of the present law
system, “which has not been amended or
improved for generations.” Queensland is
officially only a child of 01 yet, but perhaps
it has lived fast.
As usual, Victoria’s State Houses rushed
through more business in.the last few hours
of the session than they had done in as many
months before. In five hours the House of
Paunch put through eight moderately-import-
ant bills almost without amendment —two of
them voted away £1,160.000 out of loan
moneys for public works. The Assembly
wasn’t quite so hasty, but it was equally
reckless. The Railway Loan Application
Bill, authorising the spending of almost
£3,000,000 on railway works, evoked protests
all round, but no more. Among its items
were £lO,OOO for improving the refreshment
rooms at Maryborough—already the finest in
the State—and £53.000 for new refreshment
moms at Kvneton. It is monstrous expen-
diture at such a time as this; but what mat-
ters anything so long as the elector is caught
on the right hook next month?
Funny things happen in Queensland,
especially at election times. A wharf-
laborer was arrested late at night on a
charge of profiteering, the alleged profits
being found on him. Apparently an ulti-
matum was served on the Powers That Be,
for by hurried instruction a magistrate was
eot out of bed and bail granted in the small
hours of the morning.
THE ROUND-UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Members are anxious to spend as much time as
possible with their constituents so as not to be at
a disadvantage with their opponents, who are busy
electioneering.”— Age.
This is the time when far and near
He hears his darling country call;
When from the mountains, low but clear,
The old familiar murmurs fall.
’Tis now he finds the plains inviting,
The thresh of rivers on their bars;
The bush is wondrously enticing;
Likewise the everlasting stars.
The bush has friends to meet him now';
They softly talk of votive beers.
He hates the city and its row;
His hollow cheeks are wells of tears.
He thinks he hears the .trace-chains rattle,
He smells the fragrance of the gums ;
The sheep’s eternal tittle-tattle
Now faintly to his fancy comes.
He scorns the people in the street,
The theatre he fairly loathes,
And wondrous, eloquent and sweet
■ To tired ears are bushmen’s oaths.
The town to-day has naught to offer,
But there, in clean and fragrant leas,
The simple men their suffrage proffer,
And he must go and garner these.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
THE OLD FLAGSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“....including the conversion of the Australia (late
flagship) into a drill ship, with nucleus crew.” — Com-
monwealth’s new naval policy.
Massive and grey, beside the careless city,
The staunch old flagship lies,
With few aboard to hum a farewell ditty
Beneath the evening skies
Stripped of her rank, outdated by the changes
That Time and War contrive,
Her guns no more will crash their league-long
ranges—
She hardly seems alive.
No more will Morse lamps send light cruisers flying,
Or halliards bloom in speech;
Dark at her buoy, the battle-cruiser lying
A lesson seems to teach:
“Power decays, and I whose name bred terror
Am shamed and laid aside.
My work is done. What now from hate and error
Is left to guard your pride?”
N.S.W.
E. O'F.


THE PHANTOM BRIGADE.
"Although the State Government appointed a Fair Profits Commission, it had discovered extraordinarily few profiteers. If the profiteer did exist to any great extent-which he very much questioned-he was a most illusive person."
THE AIRY FICTION: ‘.Don't mistake us for realities, my boy; We are mere phantoms"


BRITISH OWNED AND CONT ROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Ply. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS> Brand.
r ,1 *^ roduc ers of Lead in the following i< ittns
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (B ar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulat £d) Smelter.
„ T an <* *l.e following Alloys and Metalli c Product* -
Antimonml Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (industrial and Assay),
Purchasers oTa SnSi?J f L J? d J? inG Pl B men ts, Blue Powder.
o^a t S S ,, i^ o^e J Slags, etc,
ELiHAffi: Managerf ***s*&
LONDON OFFICE: PIXNFRS HALL. /iSrlffi/SKI-
ADELAIDE OFFICE, » ADELAIDE—
jKKifcSi, JA -
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better v alhie
can be obtained elsewhere—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Dec., Net Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1906.. £6,408 10p.c.= £2500 £3,908 £47,503
1907.. 8,621 10 „ 2500 6,121 53,624
1908.. 0,935 10 „„ 2500 4,435 58,059
1909.. 7,322 10 „ „ 2500 4,822 62,881
1910.. 10,168 10 2500 7,668 70,549
1911.. 15,241 10 „ „ 5000 10,241 80,790
1912.. 14,344 10 „„ 5000 9,344 90,134
June,
1914.. 21,427 .10 „„ 7500 13,927" 104,061
1915.. 14,290 10 „ „ 5000 9,290 113,351
1916.. 13,381 10 ~ „ 5000 ) ’ , „
Written off. . 2500 1 119,232
1917.. 16,316 10 p.c. = 5000 1 0 ... .
Written off.. 2261 J y ’ u&6 128,287
1918.. 15,619 10 p.c. = 5000 1 imo
Written off.. 3047 j 7,5(2 135 > Bj9
1919.. 20,644 10 „ ~ 7500 13,144 149,003
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 134,003
Provident fund . . £5,000 129,003
1920.. 20,564 10 p.c. = 8763 1 .....
Written off.. 615 j 11,190 140,199
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO 130,199
The profits as given by the directors are
slightly under those shown above: 1918,
£14,031; 1919, £18,447; 1920, £19,061. A
trustee co. derives its income from four
sources: (1) interest on its own funds;
<~) commission on earnings of estates under
administration; (3) a commission on the
corpus or capital value of an estate en-
trusted to it; and (4) agency commissions,
i°r an estate of £50,000 or less the Per-
petual takes 2i p.c. as corpus commission,
generally in instalments over three or four
"via 1 ™ s .° rom an estate worth, say,
£lO,OOO, it would during the early years of
management collect £250 corpus commission.
Out this fee and the commission on annual
earnings have to cover the cost of adminis-
tration over many years—perhaps a score
or more before the estate becomes dis-
tributable and passes out of its hands, and
there is no telling whether it may not mean-
time become a difficult one to handle, and
the 24 p.c. on annual income prove insuf-
ficient to cover all costs. So the Perpetual
does not regard its corpus commissions as
actually and wholly at once earned, but
sets part of them aside in a reserve (£49,144
is now in the heap) and draws on it from
time to time as the trust moves nearer
maturity. In the table this reserve of pros-
pective profits has been treated as actual
profit.
The co. has now been in business a third
01 . a century, and over the wliole of that
period it has added an average of half a
million net to its trusts each year. Its pro-
gress in earlier years was, of course, com-
paratively slow, for it was a pioneer in the
business, and, anyhow, a young trustee co.
sutters from the same disabilities as an infant
insurance office: people with business to place
aie diffident about trusting theiy money to
the care of an untried management. 'The
1 erpetual did very well, though ; within 14
trusts in hand had reached the four-
millions mark. Nine years later they had
expanded to eight millions ; and during the
past 10 years they have again doubled. Here
is a more detailed comparison :
1900 .. £3,928,520 1917 .. £13,102,289
1900 .. 5,708,222 1918 .. 14 057 148
1910 .. 8,157,990 1919 .. 15 115 563
1915 . . 11,890,941 1920 . . 16*492,113
That is splendid progress; and there is still
a Di£ field ahead, for despite the obvious
advantages of appointing an organisation of
experts to handle the dead man’s belongings,
the old private trustee still survives to an
undesirable extent. In addition, no doubt
much prospective business is awaiting the
co., for it is certain to have been appointed
executor by numerous testators who have so
far not obliged by dying.
Though trustee cos.’ charges are moderate,
the business is very lucrative for the people
who put up the guarantees to protect clients
against fraud or carelessness. The Per-
petual has paid 10 p.c. divs. over very many
years, and there has invariably been a wide
margin of profit to swell reserves. When
“L®. aa! 9 acc °unts were presented altogether
±<5,000 of capital had been paid up by share-
holders ; but no less than £144.000 of reserves
had been accumulated. The directors decided
that the time had arrived when shareholders
might be given an extra bite. So that the
dividend rate would not be made look exces-
sive. and partly to reduce the heavy uncalled
liability on the shares—the 100.000 are of
£lO each and a year ago onlv 15s. had been
called up —the directors capitalised £15,000
of reserves, and now a further £lO,OOO goes
the same way: or, rather, the past year’s
profits in excess of the dividend distribution
are alone ample to meet the capitalisation.
These transfers will make the shares paid
to £l, and to the early birds the 10 p.c. div.
rate will represent a return of 13£ p.c. on
actual capital put up, which is very hand-
some considering the extra-special security.
There are net assets w;th a book value of
£234,699 to represent the enlarged capital
of £lOO,OOO. The co. nowadays has £114,000
of its funds tied up in a fine freehold pro-
perty. and, except for under £17,000 repre-
s«ited by mortgages, odd investments and
office furniture, the balance of assets is of
the best gilt-edged variety.
* * * *
• iNCHCOMBE, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral property and products salesmen
(the co. started with a deficit of £31,729,
representing goodwill less reserves trans-
ferred from the old co.) :
. Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1911. . £20,214 0 p.c. = £11,212 £9,002 £22,727
17,893 6 „ „ 12,845 5,548 17,179
1913.. 17,8.34 6„ „ 12,345 5,489 11,690
1914.. 21,100 6 „ „ 12,345 8,755 2,935
1915.. 13,819 6 „ „ 12,345 1,474 1,461'
1916.. 21,811 7 „ „ 14,403 7,408
1917.. 22,600 7„ „ 14,403 8,197 14,144
• 25,168 7 „ „ 14,403 10,765 24,909
1919.. 26,216 7 „ „ 14,403 11,813 36,722
1920.. 26,360 7„ „ 14,403 11,957 48,679
When the latest accounts closed the public
had been interested in the share-register of
this old concern for 10 years; but during
that period the co. has not , developed the
punch it should have. While others in the
same line of business have bounded ahead,
Irom a profit-earning point of view Winch-
combe-Carson’s has merely cn'awvled. In fact,
considering the additional ffunlds at work in
the business results are poorer than in the
days of the old proprietary. IDuring the five
r?™} 0 * )ec " 1909, net profits averaged
.t-O, < i 4 per annum ; last year, an abnormal
one as regards both the volume of business
handled and high prices realised, jthe disclosed
net profit, the best shown during Ithe 10 years,
was only £osB(> more than the old average,
though there is now £lOO,OOO more capital
and £BO,OOO more reserves at wtork. Yet the
co. s interests have expanded considerably, as
this comparison of sales shows:—
Wool Total
Sheep. Cattle. Turnover.
1909.. 104,676 477,180 9,106
*01,698 280,456 8,534 £2,002,434
7 2»278 301,158 14,158 1,663,207
127,167 2 ft), 89.8 9,731 3,954,570
1920.. 137,258 321,140 15,357 4,556,856
Nine years ago net profit on turnover re-
presented just over 1 p.c.; on a turnover 2£
times greater last year’s net profit showed
only .08 p.c. The explanation is not visible
irom the accounts, which do not set out gross
profits and expenses, one line only giving
what the directors declare to be the net
earnings after allowances had been made for
depreciation and doubtful accounts. Perhaps
e J .i irianagemen * : * ias taken advantage
ot the abnormal conditions to re-inforce the
co. s foundations, but that alone cannot
wholly explain the poorer profits.
But the co. has* d'one much better than
would appear from the average div. rate ot
r?oß‘£v,§' a ‘, over P ast years, for while
£132,007 has /been distributed to share-
holders £80,40 r 3 has been accumulated. The
■average net profit has. therefore,
represented //lightly over 10 p.c. p.a. on paid
capital. Still, in dear-money days, the 7 p.c.
div. is a poc/r retu,rn to shareholders in a con-
cern which, makes its living out of the erratic
pastoral industry, and it is the poorer-look-
ia S’ because by self-denial in the past
shareholders have permitted the accumulation
ot large reserves to help the business. On
paid capital and the ;i§o, ooo-odd of reserved
profits the 7 p.c. div., is actually giving a
return of only 5 p.c., a point under the rate
paid 10 years ago. But T after all, a co. which
has averaged a net pr ofit of 10 p.c. on paid
capital over 10 years < >annot> be regarded as
having done badly, a nd it is questionable
whether agents for prii nary producers should
be permitted to make ; no're, though many of
them do.
When the old propri- itary was passed over
to this co. goodwill wa f assessed at £72,950.
but the old partners as hed only £41,983 and
at the same time handed over £10,254 of
accumulated profits; so i the co. started with
only £31,729 of its capi ittal unrepresented by
tangible assets. As sb icrwn above, £BO,OOO-
- of profits earned since have been left
in the business, so the whole of paid capital
represented by tangibles, with the
£48,679 shown in the 'first table to spare.
How the balance-sheet 'figures have moved
since the first accounts were presented is
shown in the next com l jarvson :
r an 101 £ i Q9n
Liabilities .. ..£3?,,611 £461,352
freeholds .. .. 97,320 152,146 160,856
Advances, etc f 16,423 157,189 505,048
Investments and oash. . 14,559 16,144 21,396
Consignments .. .. 6,728 12,587
Riant, etc. .. .. 7,100 14,176 35,687
The wool-pooling arrangements are, of
course, responsible for the present magnitude
of liabilities and advances.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-opera-
tive Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.: —
Year to Net Net
July, Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Profits.
1916.. £6,540 £ll7l £2,980 £3075
1917.. 11,910 4911 6,400 1553
1918.. 24,024 8282 14,713 2078
1919.. 25,868 7626 16,321 2986
1920.. 29,858 7281 18,055 5707
From a business-getting point of view this
infant has so far not had many oppor-
tunities. The promoters set out to attempt
to cheapen the cost of insurance to the man
on the land by getting him to finance his
own co. Though the underwriters won’t
countenance a rebate of premiums, there is
nothing to prevent pi'ofits being passed out
to policy-holders who have backed their
insurances with a share interest. The
N. S. Wales wheat cocky has had a particu-
larly rough passage during the past few
years, and last season’s crop-failure left very
little for some of this co.’s most enthusiastic
supporters to insure. Nevertheless, the
management was able to increase the volume
of business handled by writing policies on
other lines —homestead, personal accident
insurances, etc. —gross premiums amounting
to £50,253, compared with £43,885 for the
previous year. Meantime additional share-
holders have been roped in, and with a
bumper harvest in prospect the co.’s first
big opportunity appears to be in sight.
Though the past year’s business was re-
stricted oy adverse conditions, the insurances
handled proved very profitable: the loss rate
worked out at only 24.3 p.c. of net pre-
miums, compared with 29,5 p.c. for 1919 and
34.5 p.c. for 1918. Smaller individual insur-
ances, of course, tend to lift the expense
rate; nevertheless, though the outgo on
writing and managing business represented
over 60 p.c. of net premiums, that was a
couple of points better than for the previous
year. The expense rate is, of course, still
high; but if all goes Well a considerable
improvement should be looked for during the
current run. Last year’s underwriting sur-
plus amounted to £4522, and £llB5 flowed
in by way of interest earnings, etc.',
together giving the £5707 of net profit shown
in the table above. The usual 8 p.c. div.
absorbs £3OlB, which, as The Bulletin
has mentioned on other occasions, is a more
liberal distribution than the strength of the
young office warrants, though it has probably
been a good bait for new shareholding
policy-holders.
Paid capital is £37,728, and reserves, after
payment of the latest div., amounted to
£2689. Not all of these funds were repre-
sented by tangible assets, for an establish-
ment account still figures in the. balance-
sheet at £6679, though it has been written
down from £9319 during the past three years.
However, for the protection of policy-holders
there are net tangible assets with a book
value of £33,738, .equal to .IT3 p.c. of the
past year’s net premiums. That is a fair
proportion for a co. only in its sixth year.
Put another way, after paying the div. there
were funds ample to meet claims exceeding
times the losses experienced last year.
Still, in a co. in which policy-holders are
mostly shareholders, the relation of funds to
risks has to be looked at from another angle.
The 5000 or so constituents of this co. have,
in effect, combined to carr;w their own risks.
If disaster should strike "rhe co. policy-
holders might possibly lose some of the capi-
tal they have put up—probably only tempo-
rarily, if they did not get cold feet, for this
co.’s record to date and long experience in
other offices have demonstrated that there
are good profits in farmers’ insurances. If.
as seems probable, a run of good seasons and
high prices is ahead the F. and S. Co-op.
Insurance should develop raoidly.
* * * *
Broken Hill South, Ltd.:—
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1907 .. £203,357 £140,000 £28,467 £140,906
1908 . . 88,847 90,000 10,491 129,262
1909 . . 97,811 40,000 21,435 165,638
1910 .. 90,604 60,000 105,166 91,076
1911 . . 150,092 120,000 10,168 111,000
1912 . . 269,773 210,000 10,985 159,788
1913 . . 337,712 230,000 11,507 155,993
1914 . . 323.847 280,000 11,158 188,682
1915 .. 231,373 30,000 18,636 371,419
1916 . . 386.979 210,000 17,294 531,204
1917 .. 492,540 240,000 32,245 751,499
1918 . . 334,976 240,000 65,005 781,470
Co. reconstructed —
Special div., £60,000 721,470
Returned to shareholders, £68,832 .. 652,638
Plant written up, £340,805 . . 993,443
Transferred to capital, £705,000 .. 288,443
Other writings-up and adjustments
making reserves .. .. .. 390.091
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1919 .. £344,113 15 p.c. = £120,000 £614,204
1920 . . 2,766 Nil 616,970
It was a year of unusual 'happenings:
though not a single ton of ore was pro-
duced, the co. had an average of about 450
employees on its wages-sheets reconstructing
the plant which had been destroyed by some
mysterious agency, installing additional
plant which had been contemplated prior
to the fire and keeping the workings ship-
shape. The last line in the table requires
considerable elaboration to explain actual
results for the year. During the 12 months
the South received £127,773 on final adjust-
ments —these are not made till six months
after deliveries. Maintenance and cessation
expenses took £98,645, leaving a working
profit of £29,127. The co.’s investments
added £36,758; but after deducting deben-
ture interest, office exes., etc., and clipping
£19,637 for depreciation, the directors show
a net profit of £13,600. The management,
however, is not reducing the book value of
the plant, etc., to the extent of the deprecia-
tion allowances made, so the £19,637
appropriated has been included as a profit
when working out the year’s results, and
the £81,789 now to the credit of the depre-
ciation fund is being classed as a reserve
until such time as the management com-
mences writing down plant. During the
year there was a considerable re-shuffling
of reserves which affects the profits as shown
by the directors. This tells how the vari-
ous balance-sheet entries have moved: —
1919. 1920.
Special reserve .. . . £390,805 £377,587
General reserve . . .. - 15,619
Depreciation reserve. . . . 31,786 81,789
Debenture sinking fund . . 64,262
Reserve for new plant . . 90,000 13,600
Reserve for development . . 37,500
P. and L. balance .. .. 64,113 64,113
Total (as per first tabic) £614,204 £616,970
The profit shown in the first table is the
amount by which total reserves have
expanded during the past 12 months. What
was the precise loss caused by the lire is
not quite clegr; £70,000 has been struck off
the book value of plant, and the directors
12 months ago stated that the destroyed
plant was insured to the extent of £35,457.
But no doubt the co. was put to considerable
expense besides suffering direct losses.
Another view of what has happened to
the B. H. South during the past 12 months
is provided by this comparison of the sur-
plus of liquid assets over all liabilities (in-
cluding provisions for taxation and royal-
ties) at the two balances: —
1919. 1920.
Assets other than mine and plant. . £984,326 £907,593
Liabilities 240,826 206,551
£743,500 £701,042
Though £115,223 was expended on plant
during the year the liquid surplus shrank
by only £42,458. Further outlay on plant
is proceeding, and the concentrating mill
will not be ready to handle material until,
at earliest, January next. If the long-
winded strike terminates at an early date,
until the new plant is ready to put into com-
mission arrangements have bejn made for
another co. to handle some of the South’s
output of crudes. Meantime the slimes plant
has been got into condition for immediate
work, and is designed to treat up to 3000
tons for nearly 400 tons lead concentrates
per week.
• • • • • •
The future of the mine depends, of course,
on the world’s markets; and metal prices
will need to be considerably better than in
pre-war days. The old average of about 2s.
per oz. for silver, £l2 to £l3 per ton for
lead and about £24 for zinc will be no good
to the Broken Hill cos. with wages and costs
at present heights. But the unprecedented
conditions which have created our troubles
are also likely to maintain metal prices for
years to come. With silver now about 55.,
lead over £34 and zinc at £4l immediate
prospects are good, but how long these prices
will continue no man knoweth. At present,
owing to the prolongation of the foolish
strike, not only B. H. shareholders but the
Commonwealth, which wants every penny it
can lay hands on to help shift its huge in-
debtedness and finance its current obliga-
tions, is missing big opportunities. The B. H.
South faces the future with about 3£ million
tons of estimated ore reserves, and with about
17s. 6d. in the £ of its paid capital of
£BOO,OOO represented by the surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities, which
include £171,500 of debentures. Of the assets
£361,970 is represented by shares in other
cos. to a large extent dependent on the mines,
and they are not very liquid : Associated
Smelters, £200,000; Zinc Producers’ Ass’n,
£720; Barrier Roaster Co., £10,000; Elec-
trolytic Zinc, £120,000; and Globe Pty., Ltd.
(the co. promoted to supply mine timber).
£11,250. During the past year this po. and
the North B. H. each took up a £20,000 in-
terest in the British Australasian Lead
Manufacturers’ Pty., Ltd., a combination of
British white-lead manufacturers who are
putting down a plant in Sydney to produce
4000 tons white-lead per annum. The year’s
realisations of old metal stocks resulted in
that item having been reduced in the books
from £182,185 12 months ago to £34,218 at
the latest balance.


61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
Made and
guaranteed by
“an nos w ioiMoam -o f
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
BOSTOCK’S— —THE IDEAL LIQUID DRESSING
FOR WHITE SHOEWARE.
A perfect white—and does not rub off. It is
quickly applied, dries almost instantly, and makes
the shoes look like new.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many home 3 in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit* everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage batterv.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets’
Melbourne.— Advt. rj
All buyers of Copper Wires, Copper Cables, Copper
Busbars, Copper Rods, etc., are notified that, as
agents for Metal Manufactures, Ltd., Port Kembla,
N.S.W., we are now in a position to fill all orders
for same promptly. tS&id to-day for particulars,
prices, etc., to Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe. —Copy of letter received
from Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th Feb.,
1919 : “Dear Sir—Yours of the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. The cost of
maintenance during the six years of service has been
nil. If we were putting in any further pipe lines
your firm would certainly be favored with our orders.
Yours truly (Sgd.). S. Southam, Sec.’’ Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (II.O.), Burns Bhy Road, Longueville,
N.S.W’. Contractors to all State Governments. —
Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * »
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix" Concrete Mixer. Sizes from li to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* * * •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s !z Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals,-at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co..
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Rourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
* * * *
Bismuth, molybdenite, wolfram and other ores,
sands and concentrates purchased by The Indus-
trial Metals Co., of 2 Martin Place, Sydney, who
invite inquiries.— Advt.
' AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Tire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident. Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car. Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock. Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AXD EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY 11. CARY. J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Further details of the proposed new capi-
tal issues by the B. H. Prop, show that a
02-million plant-extension scheme is contem-
plated. A fourth blast furnace is proposed,
a by-product plant, a duplex-steel plant, a
continuous mill for billets and steel bars,
the present rod mill is to be duplicated, the
management proposes to put down a
sulphuric-acid plant in connection with
ammonia production and galvanising opera-
tions, and considerable additions to rolling-
stock and equipment are necessary to handle
the larger output in prospect. It is proposed
to raise I,} million by 7 p.c. 20-year deben-
tures to be issued at £97. These debentures
are to be redeemed out of a sinking fund
accumulated at the rate of £75,000 per
annum, the co. having the right to repur-
chase at any time before Sept. 30, 1927, if
the market price is at par or under, and
thereafter by annual drawings. If it wishes-
to, the management can, prior to 1927, apply
an additional £50,000 per annum towards
repurchase of debentures on the market.
The new share issue is no gift to holders:
the 420,000 £1 shares offered (one for five
of the present issue) are being put out at a
premium of no less than 255.
* * * *
By the skin of its teeth the Anglo-Persian
Co. s bill, providing for a site for fuel-oil
bunkers alongside Fort Melbourne new pier,
squeezed through in the dying hours of the
Vic. State session. Frank Clarke described
the project as full-cousin to the Morwell
brown-coal electricity-generation scheme. To-
gether they would make Vic. less dependent
on IN. S. Wales, he declared, for light and
power on land and sea. The fact that Donald
Mackinnon was in charge of the bill helped it
wonderfully, for he is regarded as extra-
cautious.
*** # * ,
The Queensland Government has’lost John
Goodwyn, who has had the lion’s share in
making the State Insurance Department the
paying thing it is. The Australian Provin-
cial Assurance Association has bagged him
as general manager of its fire department for
Australia and Maorilaud.
Broken Hill Miners’ Association has been
discussing the advisability of withdrawing
its delegates from the absurdly long-winded
"tribunal” which Judge Edmunds (N.S.W.)
has been presiding over. In the end, it let
the matter stand over, on the ground that,
even if they could do. no good, they couldn’t
do any harm. If the men chose three of
their number by ballot to sit in conference
with three of the managers, and rigidly
excluded everybody else, lawyers especially,
the trouble might be .settled in two days.
There has been far too much talking to the
gallery.
Check-borer Isaac Boadle’s report on
Badak, which reached Melbourne the other
day, is a clean knock-out. In not one of
86 bores did he meet pay dirt, in many holes
he couldn’t discern even a trace. Finding no
values in the valleys, he declares that the
district is not a. tin-bearing one, and advises
the co. not to trouble further with prospect-
ing. However, general-manager Raleigh has
arrived in Malaya, and, in the circumstances,
it is just as well to let him have a final say.
Half-a-dozen bores in the area where' Orton
claimed that he could obtain values equally
as high as those originally reported should
be ample to satisfy Melbourne* if Raleigh
strikes a blank in them.
* * * *
As a preliminary to or a substitute for a
judicial inquiry, Vic. detectives are nosing
around to ascertain whether any evidence is
available against anybody for booming Badak,
One thing is certain: nobody will be sent to
the Malay States to make check bores, and
without them no testimony would .be .-weighty
enough to justify approach to judge and jury.
The Gold Producers’ Association is out
with its third half-yearly report. Since the
Commonwealth Government permitted pro-
ducers to export their-gold and obtain world’s
prices the Association has handled
1,444,4790 z. and won £1,388,319 of premium
on 1,277,6920 z. marketed. The Association
secured an average premium of 15s. 7d. per
oz. during its first half-year, 16s. 7d. in the
following term, and 295. lOd. during the
past six months. Since then gold has gone
higher, touching almost £6, so current returns
should be even better. Altogether £1,365.506
of premium has been passed on to mine-
owners, the £738.136 distributed during the
past half-year having cost only £2211 to win
and hand to producers.
To June 30 £104,000-odd had gone into
plant and equipment at Block 10 Misima
(Papua), and a P. and L. debit of £20,138
had accumulated. The plant has not yet been
got into condition to handle large tonnages
—during the five months it was at work last
term an average of only 1000 tons per month
was put through—but by the end of the year
manager Reg Williamson hopes to handle
4000 tons per month and treat half as much
again later on. To reach the present stage
has been expensive going, the construction of
the tramway connecting the mine with the
coast alone costing £21,715. The co. began
with 150,000 shares of ss. each, but each
share has since been increased to 30s. That
has not provided sufficient funds, and recently
the co. had to fall back on the parent B. H.
Block 10 for a £17,500 mortgage loan. Now
a further ss. is being tacked on to the shares,
but the directors do not anticipate that it
will be necessary to call up the whole of
the new nominal capital. During the past
term 5019 tons averaging 255. were treated,
but practically one-fifth of the battery feed
came from development. Costs, including ss.
Sd. for development, exceeded 275. 6d., and
there was a loss of £560. These opera-
tions cannot be taken as a guide to the
future. When the new mill gets into
trim Williamson hopes to bring costs
down to 20s. During the six months 1420 ft.
of development work was done, showing
improvements in values and in length and
width of stone disclosed. At the close of
last year ore reserves were estimated at
200,000 tons worth 325. The best results
lately have been got in the No. 2 level, 25ft.
of stone in a crosscut 311 ft. in averaging
475. and the No. 3 rise disclosing 375. values
over 15ft.
* * * *
With gold worth almost £6 (in paper) per
07.., the Celebration and White Hope cos.
are being urged to rush up mills and get
out bullion as early as possible, Accord-
ing to the estimates on which the Celebra-
tion was floated and those officially hinted
at since, there must be between 40,000 and
50,000 tons of ore above 100 ft. averaging
at least 50s. per ton with gold at the old
price—or with paper at the old price, if
you prefer it that way. Making a liberal
allowance for developing and treatment
there should be a profit of well over £1 per
ton. White Hope is scarcely able yet to
feed a mill, but sufficient ore is available
to furnish a good crushing. Putting aside
flash assays, the probable value of White
Hope ore so far opened up over a compara-
tively short length between the Discovery
shaft and No. 3 shaft, is between 60s. and
70s. per ton. Admirers of the property are
blowing a good deal about recent develop-
ments at 100 ft., but so far they do no more
than- confirm the suspicion that the shoots
are short and few.
* * * *
Shareholders in Paringa Celebration, a
London off-.shoot of the Paringa Mining and
Exploration Co. holding 22 acres three
blocks north of the Celebration, Hampton
Plains, have been informed that indications
are “very encouraging.” Lloyd Bloxsoine
has 'no doubts that the Celebration lodes
traverse Paringa ground, and the yarn of
months ago that the formation “closely
resembles” the famous Golden Mile has
been resurrected. Two prospecting shafts
have been sunk, and driving is proceeding
north and south at the 100 ft. main-lode
shaft to try to pick up the downward con-
tinuation of a body bulking lOdwt. which
was crosscut at 75ft. The two shafts have
disclosed two independent lodes, each about
20ft. wide, and a tnird ore channel has also
been sighted on the property, while there are
said to be indications of other ore bodies
coming in from the east of the main-lode
shaft. The management holds out some
hope of the various bodies junctioning in
Paringa ground, a theory which is claimed
to be backed to some extent by the fact
that greenstone, possibly the hanging-wall
of the Celebration lode, runs inside the
western boundary. directors declare
that they will be very surprised if a rich
shoot is not located. The co. issued 40.000
ss. shares, and except for what was paid
for the option all its funds are available
for proving the property. The remaining
60,000 shares are held in reserve, the parent
Paringa co. having the right to subscribe at
par at any time during the next 18 months
or so.
* * * *
Very little is heard of Pernatty Central
nowadays. Six months ago the shares jumped
by leaps and bounds from 3s. to about 505.,
and at that time more gold was said to be
showing in its workings than in its neighbor,
the Celebration. Two big ore bodies were
opened up at 50ft., and an official report
stated values at over an ounce. London was
supposed to be a likely purchaser at a high
figure, but it finally declined. The shares
have since gradually sagged, though the fall
was steadied for a time by two of the three
directors finding the purchase money and
otherwise financially assisting the co. There
is a lot of ore showing in the property above
100 ft., but the average, even at the present
enhanced price of gold, is said to be below
the pay line.
* * * *
The Federal Taxation Department isn’t
permitted to strike averages. In several
cases, after years of penury, persons made
rises out of the Hampton boom, and now
have been called on to hand over big sums
on account of income-tax. After 25 years
of battling one prospector had the good for-
tune to get about £6OOO for a lease during the
boom. Previously he had never earned
sufficient to make him liable to tax ; but the
Federal authorities require nearly a third of
his windfall. He .refuses to pay and intends
to let the Department argue the justice of the
demand in a court of law. As though a
court of law had anything to do with justice
in such a case!
Mary Mac, Laverton (W.A.), has evidently
not many riches to bestow. upon its sup-
porters. W. H. Vale, who took over the
show in April, declares that it is a low-
grade proposition whose lodes are not amen-
able to treatment by amalgamation. But he
thinks he can squeeze a profit by chemical
extraction. The average grade of ore avail-
able lately has been about 205., and by
sliming and cyaniding he regards 18s. per ton
as a possible recovery. By speeding-up the
gas-engine he hopes to mill 2500 tons per
month, and with Os. per ton won from
treating 500 tons residues monthly he talks
of a £575 profit. He works out costs at 14s.
—mining 75., milling 4s. and cyaniding 3s.
Ore reserves are nothing to write home
about: Vale gives 35,000 tons of “possible”
ore above the 150 ft. level as a “conservative
estimate,” though, of course, there is no
telling what is ahead of the picks.
* * * *
As its Kalgoorlie mine is almost done,
West Kalgurli Co. has sent an expert to
Central America to inspect some dredging
ventures there. This is only one of many
instances of profits got from gold won in
Westralia being used to prospect in other
countries. Surely it is a fair thing that Cos.
which have done well out of the West should
spend a little of their money in home pro-
specting. The Government is being urged to
devise legislation to that end.
* * # *
Westralia has improved on the old romance
about sheep browsing on quartz outcrops and
returning to the fold with gold-encrusted
teeth. Angelo, M.L.A., recently told the
House that a Carnarvon pastoralist had
received from the purchasers of his wool a
parcel containing half a dozen bits of quartz
all showing good gold, together with a letter
stating that the specimens had been found
embedded in the fleeces of his wool. Angelo
added that, unlike Jason of old, his friend
did not intend to chase any more golden
fleeces, but would embark on his argosy—a
six-cylinder Buick—and endeavor to find the
locality the sheep had prospected.
*** . *
Tongkah Compound No. which took
over the Ampangan area—ll 7 acres of
which are estimated to average just under a
lb.—is pushing ahead with the erection of
its dredge, and production should commence
early in the New Year. To finance the pur-
chase of plant and equipment shareholders
of the old Compound Co. are offered one new
share at par in the No. 2 for every two held
in the parent concern. For a start ss. per
share is to be got in, tind up to a further
7s. per share may be required before the pro-
position becomes self-supporting.
, Cuthbert (Q.), which has been shut down
since the Commonwealth Bank refused to
expand the •co.’s overdraft further to finance
piling stocks, is to re-start operations again.
Denison Miller’s bank has now agreed to
advance up to £BO per ton electrolytic on the
wharf at, Townsville in >consideration of the
Queensland Government guaranteeing £8 per
ton of the advance in the event of realisa-
tions failing to cover the £BO ner ton. The
bank limits its financing to 2000 tons elec-
trolytic.
* * * *
A small co. is being floated in Adelaide to
bore for petroleum on Kangaroo Island
(S.A.). —the American-Beach Oil Co. The
promoters reckon they can go down 1000 ft.
for £2300 or less, “and it is confidently
expected that oil will be tapped long before
that depth is reached” ; and there is a State
Government bonus waiting for the first to
find it. Two divining-rod experts, making
independent tests, have indicated oil in large
quantities at the same places, and geological
expert Basedow gives a modified blessing,
thus: “I am aware of no geological fact
which at the outset would preclude the pos-
sibility of finding petroleum by sinking into
the K.I. system. The tertiary beds are richly
•fossiliferous and gently folded, quite the
equivalent of important systems in 'other
parts of the world. I am inclined to believe
that the specimens of' asphaltum which are
washed ashore have come from this exten-
sive tertiary system.” Of the 700 £lO
shares, half are to be issued at once, and
the rest held in reserve. No cash is payable
over the flotation, but the promoters receive
36 shares and the brokers 32.
* * * *
“Cooroora”: The Roma bore "has sur-
prised a lot of people by at last producing
a dash of petrol; but the biggest surprise
probably occurred -when the drills on No. 2
bofe (No. 1 at that time supplied cool
water) first, struck gas in 1900. Canadian
Van Dusen and his mate, who had been
drilling for Woodley,. Charleville way, were
controlling the hole. One day the 2600 ft.
of wire rope, accompanied by the drills,
were spewed up, and the derrick was sent
skyward. The experienced operators hit
the skyline before the debris descended. For
months afterwards gas was visible in the
water flow. Some inquisitive person experi-
mented with a match and made the aston-
ishing discovery that subterranean, gas
would burn. First-aid eased his injuries.
\ an Dusen returned to Canada a few years
later; I saw him off at Circular Quay, Syd-
ney, and he had about five dollars to see hint
through the voyage.
At the annual meeting in London, Briseis
(Tas.) directors were not communicative
about the location of the new Vic. gold-dredg-
ing areas the co. has under consideration.
Boring is proceeding, and one area is claimed
to be showing “most encouraging” results.
Two of the four dredges which were on the
old Wallace property are to go to the old-iron
collector; the co. is holding on to the other
two in the hope that profitable employment
can be found for them. London is not en-
thusiastic about Briseis scrip nowadays,
and since this is mostly due to the impression
that the co.’s tin areas will be short-lived.
Chairman Drury had a word to say about
future operations. The second diversion of
Ringarooma River made available a block
estimated to contain approximately 500 tons
concentrates. With the ' tailings from this
ground Lindesay Clark is going to build a
bank for the rinal diversion of the river,
which will ultimately flow behind the work-
ings. Of the ground measured up eight years
ago there are still 5j million yds. containing
about 4000 tons concentrates ahead, with
“millions of tons” awaiting investigation in
the Ringarooma Hill. Lindesay Clark ha>
about two years’ work before the final river
diversion will be necessary.
(Continued on page 22.)


Tha. v/ild dogs c.t*i<cn out,pra»cticejly
c-varyikinQ in ftvt Vf<zst, —-
sweep on tbwzsrds <So^st>
Ux<z,y Ci.od€ exciiejue.n't ort lK« ,
fcaid evcrAusJly r<z.*cH H>« outer Suburbs of Sidney
But Some/awr-stf Souls Set fe, course,
v<Kick up to * course Set,
. ■fcaid, ?ker<z. being sufficient bfcdt foT ifl£ jo!>,
Ike dogS sr<z co**xed to spot
/urfi\«r Vest ever*.
“IT’S AN ILL-WIND,” ETC.
“That huge, triangular province west of the Darling—a district comparable in size with England—is in danger of being withdrawn from sheep, owing
to the menace of wild dogs. Cattle can still be kept there, but sheep are being withdrawn. Should the wild dogs further increase, it may be only a
question of time before packs of them pull down the larger stock.” —Evening News.


k
A Hat for the Races.
GOOD STYLE-A RELIABLE MAKE.
Race-week with its carnival of sport and fashion is
an occasion marking the adoption of Spring styles.
Men, wearing good clothes at Race and Holiday
outings, require good hats to complete the effect of
smart attire.
The “Warrigal” Pure Australian Fur Felt Hat here
quoted is made in the favored flat-set shape with
2sin. unbound brim. Band is Uin. deep; bow
at side. A hat of pleasing shape and good quality.
Colors: Grey, Fawn, Steel.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
30/-
Please state size and color required.-
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
SPEC^
INSTITUTE V
Dept. A.
ROLLED
GOLD,
£l/1/-
&
Complete
with
Case,
£l/1/-
We do not cater for any
of the eyes. We simply
failing sight, which sets
about the age of 40.
diseases
correct
in at
Write for particulars and
our self-measurement form,
which will be sent on re-
ceipt of a post-card to
No money asked.
Pay post office
when spectacles
are delivered.
Box 702 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in, every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
All the best Society Catering Functions” are regularly carried out by the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
Society
MINCHINBURY
FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF THE
OTHER.
WEALTHY WIDOW : “Yes, I have buried two
husbands; but I am ambitious —very
ambitious.”
■‘Callan Park” : These prohibitJbnists, who
are seeking to impose teetotalism by a bare
majority, boggle at one of the most obvious
implications of their policy. If compulsory
teetotalism, why not.compulsory alcoholism?
Here is what Samuel Gompers, leader of the
American Labor party, was reported recently
as saying:—
I have seen here in America groups of sallow-faced
workmen assemble at the close of the day in the
most frigid, uninviting drug-stores [chemists’ shops],
and proceed to quarrel with the universe over iced
waters and cream cakes. And the look on each
face was dark and sinister. Life has become drabber
for these men. The hour when they could relax and
smile on life after the labor of the day has become
converted into a period of nagging and restless
criticism of everything and everybody.
“Yond Cassius,” remarks one of Shak-
speare’s characters, “has a lean and hungry
look. I like him not. Such men are dan-
gerous.” Who ever heard of a three-bottle
man with a lean and hungry look? Taking
into consideration the fact that the anti-
drink theorists are at least as likely to be
wrong as those who regard fermented liquid
as a panacea against most ills, I submit that
if there is a bare-majority vote it should
cut both ways. Let the electors be given an
opportunity to say not only that no one shall
be allowed to drink, but that everyone shall
be compelled to drink. If, as is quite likely,
the latter crowd win, the effect may be to
give a needed lesson to those who are con-
tinuously trying to interfere with the liberty
of total strangers.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: I never heard of a
leadswinger taking in Dr. Ryan, but Sydney
owns a Digger who is grateful to that
Gutzer King for sending him back to France.
There Bill picked up, in a battered and
looted chateau, a small gold snuff-box that
has proved far more valuable than he imag-
ined at the time. When his gratuity had
gone to the wolves, Bill decided that he might
raise a pound or two on the trinket, and
showed it to a connoisseur in antiques. And
now that William is—or was—a hundred
pounds richer, his only disturbing thought is
that if he had prospected the French ruin a
bit more carefully, his clean-uf) might have
been better still.
* * * *
“Harrison O.” from the Continong:—
Paris has not yet become the Mecca of the wowser,
but it is developing in that direction. What with
restrictions on the sale of drink, a heavy tax on cafG
music and an active Purity Brigade which aims
at censoring stage-productions, women’s dress and
advertising posters, the city is no longer th:ct
romantically naughty place which figures in the
imagination of dwellers in Tonbridge and Albert
Park. It is possible to see more “daring” dresses in
Regent-street in one hour than will be seen in several
days in the Rue de la Paix. With the exception of
a few freak “creations,” sobriety characterises the
dresses both on the boulevards and in the theatres.
Most of the caffis are without music, owing to a
Government tax on this commodity, and an air of
almost painful decorum pervades the majority of the
theatres. The Folies Bergeres still manages to main-
tain an atmosphere of rather laborious giddiness, but
its patrons are mostlj' visitors (especially the
übiquitous Yank), though much of its naughtiness is
embedded in an argot to which they do not possess
the key. A society which has come into existence to
protect the Parisians from shocks to their newly-
acquired prudery is very active. A theatrical poster
recently offended one of its members, who, with a
brolly, proceeded to inflict wounds upon the image’s
most sensitive spots. Next day the manager of the
theatre covered up the lacerated portions of the
poster’s anatomy with the announcement: “All the
rage. Book early.” Although I am anxious to
plumb the depths of the city’s wickedness, my most
exciting experience has been the dodging of taxis.
Paris owns on a rough calculation 3,495,679 taxis,
all of which travel at a speed that would cause a
Prahran J.P. to die from a rush of indignation to the
throat. Pedestrians are expected to get out of their
way, and if knocked down by one are liable to be
fined or otherwise severely dealt with. Acrobatics
should be made a compulsory subject in the French
schools.
* * * *
“Ike Pagliacci”: I sympathised with the
lady singing in the gutter to an audience of
two boys, and a dog, and I handed out a bob.
In returning thanks she startled me by asking
whether I’d care to hear another song. Mis-
taking my hesitation she went on: “P’raps
you don’t like them doleful numbers, but
they’s the kind that gets the money. ‘When
I Leave the World Be’ind’ ’s the best because
it s got top notes ’swell as being sad.” I
made a polite excuse about an impatient
train. She gathered up her camp-stool and
moved towards the pub on the corner. “The
cop s gone, so I’ll go up ’ere and give ’em
‘Baby .Doll.’ ” she said with a wan smile.
“Aint it a shame y’ can’t afford to be lively ?”
* * * *
“Doc’s Offsider”: A Digger who has a
good case has been turned down by the
Repatriation doctors. He was blown up by
a shell in 1918, but showed no sign of shell-
shock until three months after his discharge,
when he broke down with all the symptoms
of acute neurasthenia. The doctors say his
disability, is not the result of war service;
but that is simply because he was discharged
before if developed. There were numerous
cases of the kind in France and England.
In one instance a man who was blown up and
wounded in the 1916 operations developed
shell-shock 'after he had been two years on
light camp duties on the other side of the
Channel: one of his symptoms was night-
mares of the stunt in which he had become a
casualty. It should be officially recognised
that nervous affections contracted on war
service may be months, or even years, before
they become manifest. To refuse benefits
to a man because the distressing condition
delays its appearance is simple cruelty.
* * * *
“Brush”: The Felton Bequest Trustees
seem to make a hobby of buying unsuitable
pictures for the Melbourne National Gallery.
The latest purchase, at a price carefully con-
cealed, is “Lulworth Cove—in Time of
Drought,” a very ordinary painting, not
well drawn, of the coast of England, probably
near Bournemouth. By some slip of the
brush the Cove has been raised about 400
feet above sea-level, and looks like a lake, and
not part of the sea. Drought time is repre-
sented by bare yellow rocks, devoid of soil
as well as grass. The picture is on show at
the Athenaeum, and as an example of bad
artistic judgment it has few equals even in
the Felton collection.
* * * ■=£•
“Sphinx”: During the operations against
the Hindenburg Line in 1918, an American
division was attached to and fighting with
the Australian Corps. After several days of
hard going the Aussie division alongside the
Yank suspected them of being short of
rations. A “Q” branch staff-officer at Aus-
tralian Divisional Headquarters, feeling
anxious, rang up the Ameri-
can divisional commander
and inquired about the com-
missariat. Back came the
flabbergasting reply of the
American commander; “Say,
don’t worry me about
rations. I'm fighting a
battle.”
EVIDENTLY AN EXCEPTION.
“I always say that nothing is ever lost
through politeness."
“What about a gentleman's seat in a crowded
tramcar?"
“Thirty-one” : On thje Somme in the sum-
mer of, 1918 the small lakes along the river
from Vaire to Corbie v/ere just crawling with
fish. The Diggers wajsted no Mills bombs to
get them: they just hung round till Fritz
lobbed one in a lake, and then went after the
victims. After a decent shelling I’ve seen
hundreds floating at the edge of these lakes.
Good eating they were too, but bony. They
ran from little chaps that should be orna-
menting a fish-bowl to fine big fat pots a
foot long. The boys took risks to get a
Friday dinner. As soon as the first shell
lobbed in the water there'd be two or three
punts paddling swiftly to the spot. Their
worries about shells when there were fish
a-callin’!
* * * *
“Ex-Dig”: Unlike other armies in the
field, the Australians systematically avoided
close formations. It was partly a matter of
necessity, as after their first heavy engage-
ments the battalions were always below
strength, and they invariably had charge of
comparatively long fronts. When the First
Division held the Germans who were thrust-
ing towards Dunkirk in 1918, it was really
a skirmishing line that did the job. The
enemy believed in attacks in mass formation,
arguing that men got confidence from the
rub of other men’s shoulders, and that it
was better to have 50,000 casualties and win
a battle than 20,000 and lose it. But
towards the end they did not waste many
men in front-line positions, or outposts, when
there was nothing doing. The British
believed in holding the line at full strength,
even if some units had to drop out alto-
gether in order to provide reinforcements,
and the packing of the British trenches was
deadly. A full platoon of Warwickshires,
with 44 men, relieved us in a possie where
we considered ourselves crowded with 18
men. We pitied the poor beggars when
we remembered the few dugouts and the
cramped trench. We pitied them more when
we heard their losses. The shell that did
the damage would have inflicted only one
or two casualties with us; but the crowded
Tommies paid a terrible toll. The Yanks,
too, showed a tendency to bunch, which cost
them dearly. In one attack, when an
attempt was made to extend them, they
simply bunched to left and right, and split
in the middle, leaving a large .unmopped
area from which the German machine-guns
played on their flanks.
From a male cynic in London:—
Some of John Bull’s aristocracy have elevated
cadging to a fine art. There is one much-
photographed lady who reckons that she should
obtain practically every-
thing she wears for nothing
(and mostly succeeds in
doing so) because of the
advertisement this is
alleged to give the traders.
Recently she entered a
hattery which an Austra-
lian * helps to run and
after prolonged inspection
selected four expensive
hats. When the manage-
ment asked whom they
were to be oharged to
she raised her pencilled
eyebrows in shocked sur-
’prise. “Ai am Lady Susan-ah Blanky l” she
announced. The management remarked
politely that of course it knew that. This
merely increased Lady Susan’s horror. "Yew
don’t mane to say you want to charge me
foah them !! ” she exclaimed. Upon being
assured that such was the intention, she
announced haughtily: “Thank you, Ai will not
take them. Ai should have thought that the
fact that Ai was going to weah them would
have bane sufficient!!” Another aristocratic
dame, a widow, suffers acutely by reason of
the fact that she and her unmarried daughter
have to depend upon a married daughter for
cash and the purse-strings have lately been
tightened somewhat. Financially the mother
is not now good for credit to the extent of
more than tuppence. The other day she
ordered goods to the value of three figures,
and when the shop menial showed signs of
becoming confusedly apologetic she remarked'smil-
ingly : “Oh, that will be quaitc all raight, Ai assuah
you; when we left Putland Place Lady Theda”
that’s the married daughter—“had neahly saigned
the cheque/’ s
* * * #
“Furpli ’ (Chicago): Some such protec-
tive measure as suggested by “Aloin” (B.
13/5/’2O) seems to be necessary to ensure
that overseas graduates of medicine are all
that they should be. On July 23, in this
city, a Japanese found in possession of a
steel engraving of the Chicago Hospital Col-
lege of Medicine certificate pleaded guilty
in court to having sold hundreds of bogus
diplomas at 250 dollars apiece. They were
to be used overseas, of course, for each State
m the U.S.A. pTotects its citizens by hold-
ing periodically a State examination which
all graduates from its own institutions, as
well as those from other States in the U.S.A.
and overseas, have to pass before they are
allowed to screw up a brass plate.
* * * *
“Narrung”: The small boy arrived with a
note from teacher asking why Tommy
wasn’t at school. He found Tommy in bed,
half-delirious, and sat at the bedside while
Tommy’s mother went for a doctor. The
note was returned to the teacher endorsed
Measles and chicken-pox,” and a. few days
later the small postman, several brothers and
sisters, and 25 per cent, of the class were
under treatment. The Dept, defends the
rotten practice with the plea that it saves
postage and secures prompt replies. - But one
of these days when a parent whose youngster
has been turned into a postman, and thus
infected, sues the Department for damages,
the economy won’* be so apparent..
A DOMESTIC DISASTER.
“Isn’t it awful! My husband has run off
with our cook.”
“Terrible , and cooks are so scarce!”
IN DIVORCE' JURISDICTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Death with his pale, cold face
Sits in the judgment seat,
A dank and gloomy place;
With neither pomp nor heat.
He spits his verdicts out
In mutters deep and hoarse.
Who his decrees may flout
When Death sits in Divorce?
Often he speaks too soon
And white arms empty yearn;
Sometimes he flings a boon
To weary souls that burn
For Freedom and release ;
Now it is woe, now grief,
Now it is calm and peace;
But Death is grim and brief!
He nods his hoary head—
His law is always right—
And there’s a lonely bed
And weeping in the night,
And weeping when the sun
Creeps up above the town;
There’s no appeal; ’tis done—
He heeds not eyes of brown!
While there among the throng
So many wait in vain,
Through weary days and long
He treats them with disdain ;
Tjie Judge is fierce and old,
And ah ! his wit is coarse—
All tragedies are told
When Death sits in Divorce.
VICTOIUA.
C.C.


#
When the period knotm as “the twilight of
Ufe” arrives, extreme care must be ob-
served to keep Colds, Influenza, and their
attendant Uls at a distance.
r
IRISH MOSS
SSi
\OW
sap
IS BEST FOR COUGHS & COLDS.
» “s,r to B."”y; 0 s, u
DEES
Simpson’s Writing' Ink
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Established 1894.
THERE IS NOTHING BETTER.
to jrJraVSL? “ in ,OUr NAME and Ar, DEESS below. Send Cutting
SAMPLE BOTTLE FREE.
Fame
Full address
SIMPSON’S INK LIMITED
BlacKlriars Street, SYDNEY.
“Centurion”: “J.C.G.’s” yarn of the salute
fired at Roma with two anvils and some
gunpowder recalls a similar ceremony
which took place at Port Moresby. The
Mehrie England was coming in with Gov-
ernor le Hunte on board. His Ex. had been
away for nearly a year in England, and Jim
McDonald, then the gaoler at Moresby,
resolved to do the thing in style. Standing
11 empty kerosene-tins in a row (11 was le
Hunte’s quota of “guns” as a Colonial Office
Governor), he placed a detonator and a
length of fuse in each. As the Merrie Eng-
land swung through the entrance Mac.
touched off his guns in rotation, and no
R.H.A. battery of the Old Contemptibles
could have kept better time, or raised a more
infernally satisfactory racket.
* * * *
“Albatross”: In the vicinity of Cape Lam-
bert, near Cossack, N.-W. Australia, there
is a magnetic attraction that affects ships’
compasses in a strange manner. On getting
Cape Lambert on a certain bearing, the
compass card whirls round and back again
like a teetotum. My attention was first
drawn to it in pre-war days by a German
sailor taking his trick at the wheel. “Der
gompass he vos madt!” he exclaimed. “He
go roundt und roundt like neft'er vos!” Hans
described it exactly. There are many places
in Australia, notably Spencer’s Gulf (S.A.),
where local attraction plays havoc with com-
passes. In this lasjt-named locality the
numerous iron . deposits sometimes cause
abnormal deviation, and therefore mariners
have to be careful when shaping a course.
But I don’t think. I have ever encountered
any attraction quite so remarkable in its
action on compasses as that off Cape Lam-
bert.
* * * *
“Solomon Malaprop” on church matters :
Maoriland, which is a >rugged sort of place, pro-
poses taking sudden measures with those who call
other people “sinners living in adultery” and their
UNNECESSARY.
“Arc you sure the light will come if I press
that button, mummy?”
“Of course, dear.”
“Well, I don't think I'll bother about my
prayers to-night.”
children “bastards” because they were married
according to the law of the land and not according
to that of the church. One Maoriland prelate, Fire-
wood by name, made a sensation in Sydney with the
theory that all married Protestants lived in sin
and their children were all born in shame because
neither a State marriage nor a Protestant preacher’s
marriage was of any account. This was left out of
his sermon, possibly on second thoughts, but an
untidy secretary omitted to take it out of the
advance copies handed to the press, and several news-
paper offices took fire that night.
„ &J*? try Jhe canvassers of
, , *’ u lca lan arld . a ” an ff r .v R-C.
paper, both of Sydney, had a friendlv agreement
J the Wtter business ma£ o
the ite sgct ;md asked or an advertisement
while the other fellow waited outside When the
Protestant canvasser came out on his ear the R C
man rughed „eJ/and secured a good
’ ana secured a good
WHEN HIS SHIP WOULD COME IN.
“Great Scott, I believe I've lost my boat!”
“ That'll be all right—your wife will give it to you when you get home.”
order while the rage of the insulted victim made
him blind to expense; and the subsequent division of
commission was satisfactory.
The attitude the Maoriland Presbyterians take
up is that they don’t deny the validity of R.C.
marriages, so there o,ught to be reciprocity, whereas
the reciprocity is all on one side. The attitude the
Government takes up is that, if any power—church
or I.W.W. or any other-—passes laws of its own
which profess to over-ride those- of the State, the
State must answer the challenge, or else it may
expect to fall into disrepute and be trodden on till
it is so flat that it can be passed under a door. So
it proposes to make the price of religious aspersion
of the kind alluded to anything up to one year and
£lOO. Possibly in the end it may take the header
that Paraguay and other places did and declare all
church marriages null and void, though admitting
that they are ornamental, and making only the civil
marriage valid.
* * » *
“Bouragi”: Pierre Rochaix, the French-
Australian expert on New Cale-
donian escapees, made a trip to
British New Guinea in 1905.
In the days of old William
Macgregor, who didn’t care a
bawbee what his subjects’ ante-
cedents were, B.N.G. had
acquired a sprinkling of furtive
French gentlemen who traded,
“fished” and mined in peace.
But when Macgregor went
things changed. I think le
Hunte was the nark. Anyway,
one day rumors reached the
Mambare goldfield that Rochaix
was in Samarai with a fine
bag to his credit already. Two
or three of my most respected
constituents vanished like the
mist on the mountain —the
German border was only a few
miles away—and I have never
seen or heard of them since.
Several leading citizens of the
southern and south-eastern divi-
sions went back to Sydney with
Rochaix. What happened is
not certain, but apparently the
French Government jibbed at
the bill, for soon after, when I
caught a nice fresh boatload of
escapees who had made the trip
direct from New Caledonia, the
Heads told me harshly to let
'em get away—go anywhere so
long as it was out of Papua.
Harley Matthews from New York
How much longer will the publicity agent be able
to work on the public’s feelings'? Surely there
must come a time when the people will see the
string reaching from the fakir’s hand to their own
emotional chords, and will refuse to shout, no
matter how he tug!
In Australia the hired applause-maker has been
behind public demonstrations only in recent years.
The war, with the emotions it produced, gave him a
chance that he never had before.
But gradually Australians will learn, as their edi-
tors and journalists have done, that all that is large
and noisy is not sincere. Will they turn away,
though, with a cynical shake of the head and refuse
to cheer? In America, anyway, the discovery of the
fakir has not made any difference. There, though
(he people have become aware of him, and know by
heart aHI his tactics, they seem to take a delight
in helping his arrangements. If you hear of any
great popular demonstration in the' States, you can
be sure that half of it is the result of the fine
work done by the publicity man.
The theatre gave him birth; but when he grew
up he took to politics, seeing more money there,
no doubt. That this is true was proved at an
inquiry in New York recently. A pile of women’s
clothes and a .note hinting at suicide had been found
near a lake in Central Park. The police dragged
the lake for days, and made inquiries for the miss-
ing woman all over the city. Then it turned out
that it had been a scheme to get a new Japanese
film-heroine publicity. The District Attorney was
annoyed that his men had been fooled, and he
ordered an inquiry. A press-agent, Harry Reichen-
bach, was the chief witness. He denied any part in
this affair, but he made some of the world’s his-
tory more understandable. “No,” he said, “that
Japanese fake is not in my style at all. A typical
conception of mine war a plan to have Clara Kimball
Young kidnapped by Mexicans and held for heavy
ransom until rescued by eight of our cavalrymen.
I wrote to J.P. Tumulty, President Wilson’s secre-
tary, about the scheme, and he replied that the
matter would be ‘taken up.’ This was to be in
leturn for the work 1 had done for the Government
during the war. I went through Italy doing press-
agent’s work for President Wilson. I made the
people bow down and pray to him as they did to the
saints before, and I spent $BOOO of my own money
doing it. I could not get it back, so I deserved
some return in trade from the Government. In
the last six years I have made $300,000 in this
line of work.”
The whole world heard of the reception Wilson
got in Italy before the Peace Conference. But now
it knows how it happened. Which will be written
in Italian history—the story of the worshipping
crowds or the Reichenbach fake? And, after Wil-
son had denied Italy’s claim to Fiume, would the
cleverest publicity man have been able to get that
sort of reception for him in another Italian tour?
* * * *
“D.E.”: The drollest thing I ever saw in
the glad-eye line was the effort of a Pitt-
street flapper, frivolous and unlettered, to
mash Lieut. Flora Sandes. But the humor-
ous absurdity of the proceeding was lost on
blora, a warrior who comports herself with
tremendous seriousness, being “the Serbian
Joan of Arc,” and all the damsel got for her
simulated tenderness was a freezing stare.
* * * *
“Karoomba”: Tich and his brother were
in the same battalion. During a stunt young
brother was hit, died of wounds and was
buried at a dressing-station just behind the
line. When the battalion came out it was
billeted in the same sunken road as the dress-
ing-station. The day following, a friend of
the family came over from a neighboring bat-
talion to see the brothers, and discovered
Tich sitting on the bank cleaning his rifle.
The friend seated himself on a mound of
earth and in the course of conversation asked
how his brother had fared. “Cripes.” was
the amazing reply, as Tich looked round and
took in the situation, “yer about sittin’ on
lm!
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Mudgee is cele-
brating its centenary. In 1820 Lt. William
Lawson—he who accompanied Gregory Blax-
land and W. C. Wentworth in the first
expedition across the Blue Mountains and
who was in 1820 commandant at Bathurst—
heard from the aborigines of fine country
lying to the northward. Securing the ser-
vices of a blackfellow named Aaron, the
guide took him to the boundary of his tribe’s
country, a spot still known as Aaron’s
Pass. The blackfellow refusing to go
further, Lawson went on alone, and
discovered the rich grazing country of
Talbragar. On returning to Bathurst
he gave such a glowing description
of the country that George Cox, then
living- at Hereford, on the Kelso side of the
river, determined to follow Lawson’s tracks.
He was accompanied on the expedition by
William Lee, the founder of the big Western
N. S. Wales family, and William Lewis,
whose descendants are still in Mudgee. On
returning to Bathurst. Cox announced that
he • gave preference to Mudgee for graz-
ing purposes, and in 1821 he and
his brother Henry started off with
500 head of cattle. On the seventh day- the
party camped on the banks of the Mudgee
River, where the village of Cudgegong now
is, and thus the Mudgee of to-day was
pioneered.
* * * *
A suggestion for the defence of the Empire :
One of the needs of the hour is the preservation of
the prestige, the mana —in a word, the omnipotence
—of W. M. Hughes. Everywhere there exists a
tendency to question it. People with German names;
wearers of green ties and even shamrocks; sneering
and disaffected members of the working-classes—st:ch
are to be found on all sides. They may not actually
say anything in derogation of their master. Few
go so far as that; more especially since his threat
directed recently at the Toowoomba (Q.) traitors
who inscribed “God Save Ireland” or something such
on their concert programme. But can there be any
reasonable doubt that, like the fabled parrot, they
are thinking a lot? It is to this class —the secret
disloyalists—that the supreme Government must now.
direct its attention. At a recent meeting of the
Punkville League for the Protection of the British
Empire (Brigadier-General Smith-Jones, President,
in the chair) it was decided to recommend the
formation of a special body of police, the personnel
composed of thought-readers, necromancers, fortune-
tellers and magicians. The abrogation of the existing
State laws against soothsaying should be a simple
matter under the War Precautions Act. The ground
thus cleared, members of the force would be turned
loose in public places and commissioned to identify
and proceed (still under the War Precautions Act)
against those who were privately thinking things
against Mr. Hughes. There is yet another section,
equally dangerous to the security of the Empire
and more difficult to trace —those who would enter-
tain hostile thoughts about the Prime Minister if
they were capable of thinking about anything.
They are sub-consciously disloyal, as it were. It is
proposed to apply to them the Freudian sys-
NO CHANGE.
“There, what was I telling you—figures
never lie!”
“No, they can’t—not with the dresses the
girls are wearing nowadays."
tern of psycho-analysis; or, better still, perhaps, tho
analytical psychology invented by Dr. Jung, of
Zurich. Trained analysts will engage them in bars,
tramcars and other public places; and having
plumbed the nethermost depths of their unexpressed
—perhaps even unrealised—hostility to the champion
of our liberties, will hand them over to the police.
A neat necromancer’s hat with the signs of the
zodiac on it, and a black silk cloak figuring the sun,
moon and one or two of the principal planets,
should suffice for a uniform. And as Conan Doyle
has just arrived on a spiritualistic mission it might
be a graceful act to offer him the honorary com-
mand of the new formation.
THE STAIRS BEHIND THE LIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lifts go up and the lifts go down ;
And the floors are linked by the turn of a wheel,
While, higher and higher, the roofs of the town
The light of the sun and the starshine steal.
But shadowy stairways curve and climb
Where the quiet lives, with the dust on her knee ;
And a cloistered calm that is nurse for rhyme
Keeps a corner apart for mystery.
Crockeryware through the arch to the right—
Ribbons and carpets and fancy goods—
And the lifts go up with an easy flight
To serve the people in all their moods.
But the broad steps turn and the small steps wind ;
And the corner shadows are good for me,
Where they sleep in a quiet, remote and kind,
But close to the heart of mystery.
N.S.W.
C. O. M.
NO ESCAPE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun comes up with Sister L.
And tells about her flight;
And every peering wretch knows well
There will be more to-night.
The cool white moon sails on in peace
When all clay’s jobs are done;
But they who read must never cease.
“Here’s more about th’ nun!”
Inside, beneath the blinding gas,
They argue, curse and gape.
From nuns escaped there is, alas!
For readers no escape!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE —15 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Bradclon,
M.L.C., F. B. S.' Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any moTe of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Svdney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor 200 Hiyh St., Christchurch
W A. —H. Little &• Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfSINQ roof garden.
Management F. T. CHEJSSEMAN.
S)GEW ORfu
EXTRA HIGH GRADE* *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney Agents.
IMPERSONAL
October birthdays:—
John Grice (Melb.), 70, on 6th; Jilstice Ferguson
(N.S.W ), 59, on 7th; R. C. Sticht (Mt. Lyell), 64,
and MiSs Rose Scott, on Bth ; Bertram Stevens (
in Australia), 48, on 9th; Minister MeOirr, 38, on
11th; Judge Toni Rolin (N.S.W.), 57, and Fred
Chappie (S.A.), 75, on 12th; Walter Gill (S.A.),
69, on 13th; Langdon Bonython (Adelaide Adver-
tiser), 72, Hartley Williams (retired Vic. Judge),
77, and N. G. Bell (Federal Railway Commissioner),
60, on 15th; Captain Glossop (who commanded the
Sydney when she sank the Emden), 49, on 23rd;
Brig.-Gen. J. C. Robertson, 42, on 24th; Commander
Dumaresq, 47, General Neville Howse, V.C., 56, and
Geologist Twelvetrees (Speck), 72, on 26th; Elliott
Lewis (Speck’s Treas.), 62, on 27th; R. Murray
Smith (Vic.), 89, Geo. Collingridge, 73, and poet
J. B. O’Hara, 56, on 29th ; ex-bank manager T. A.
Dibbs, 88, on 31st.
It looks like a neck-and-neek race between
Aikman, the present wearer of the gold dog-
chain, and Swanson, the builder, for the
Gaud Mayoralty of Melbourne; but Aikman
may just get home. It is customary for
the tussle, when there is a tussle, to take
place in the second week in October.
ALF JONES, Queensland Minister for
Mines, who is behind the scheme to
establish State iron and steel works in
the North.
If by any chance A. R. Outtrim loses
the number of his mess at Maryborough at
the coming Vic. election, Alec Peacock, who
was first returned on March 28, 1889, will
be the Father of the Assembly. Peacock
is sure of election, and may get a walk-over.
Dr. Stanley Argyle, the surgeon, has
come out to fight Dr. James Barrett,
the eye specialist, for the Toorak seat
(Vic.), and the choice will be made
on personal rather than political grounds,
for they are both kid-glove Liberals.
Though the pair do not link arms when they
meet, the Tory dames and their sons and
uaugnters are muck worried, for both are
pets. Stanny Argyle is an old Trin. Col. boy.
and was something more than a spectator at
the time of the students’ revolt against the
warden (Leeper) in 1890. His brother
Reggie was formerly member for Dalhousie,
and whip for Irvine and Bent. Barrett as a
Melbourne Club man will have rather more
pull than Argyle, but it will be a pretty fight.
Conan Doyle is being chaffed in Adelaide
about his only previous reference to that
really decorous city in print. In one of his
stories Sherlock Holmes unmasked a mur-
derous wowser; “Holy Peters” was his pet
name, but you could always tell him if you
looked under his long hair, because one ear
had been “bitten off in a saloon-fight in
Adelaide.” The novelist is a six-footer with,
an old-fashioned big moustache, and ffkir
hardly greying at 61. He told interyiewers
that his interests are all-round, recalled
Spofforth’s sensational first appearance at
Lord’s in 1878, and expressed an intention
to back Carpentier if the fight with Demp-
sey comes off. He has his vvjfe and children
with him, and proposes to spend the hot
months in M.L., after lecturing all over the
continent on his alleged successful attempts
to get in touch with dead friends.
Tom Foley, the most easy-going Acting-
Chairman of Com-
mittees in the
Queensland Parlia-
ment, passed out a
day or two after
he had once more
won the Labor ple-
biscite for Mun-
dingburra (South
Townsville), an
electorate whic h
used to give him a
two-to-one majority.
It was a habit
of the anti-Labor
forces to play
tricks disapproved
by many when
Foley presided
meditatively over
Committee. A good
sort was Foley,
though the first
man met in the
.street possibly
would have made a
better chairman.
Despite his Irish
patronymic he was
a Welshman.
CLAPP, Vic.'s new
Railway Chief.
Agar Wynne, though born at Richmond,
spent a lot of his early life at Ballarat and
was toddling close to the Eureka Stockade
soon after 1854. He started as a solicitor in
Ballarat with old Henry Cuthbert, later
coining to Melbourne to join up with
Hamilton and Riddell in a flourishing busi-
ness. The Law, however, did not satisfy him,
and he became company director, pastoralist,
politician (with the unusual record of being
Postmaster-General in State and Common-
wealth), and he also found time to run a
racing stable. Probably he will die very rich,
since most of his investments have pros-
pered. In public as in private life he has
been inflexibly honorable.
Vic. Premier Lawson, who seems likely to
be unopposed in Castlemaine, has had a run
of 21 years in the Assembly since he beat
General McCay at a by-election. McCay had
taken office under Allan McLean as Minister
for Education and Customs, and, Under the
law as it then stood, had to seek re-election.
George Turner, Alec Peacock and other
Oppositionists induced Lawson, a law student
and popular footballer, to nominate. To even
things up it was Lawson who appointed
McCay chairman of the Fair Profits Com-
mission.
Margaret Davidson, who died of shock
after a fire at her house at Brighton (Vic.),
abhorred publicity, but having done the un-
usual she has got more limelight than if she
had been conventional. She ordered her
body to be cremated and the ashes buried,
without any enclosing casket, at the foot of
a tree in the cemetery. She will not be
forgotten as soon as she seemingly wished,
for she left enough to build a cottage on the
Old Colonists’ Homes area. Ambrose Kyt.\
who was in the Vic. Assembly between IS6I
and 1867, was her father.
John Davern, for many years host of
Hobart’s famous All Nations pub, said so-
long the other day. Shrewd and kindly, and
the owner of one of the pleasantest brogues
ever imported, John Davern made many
friends and shekels in the quaint old drinkery.
Tucked away behind the bar was a snug-
gery as world-famous as any similar con-
venience in the Commonwealth, not even
excluding that other ancient Hobart snug-
gery which Randolph Bedford once declared
had been shamelessly plagiarised by the Mer-
maid Tavern, where Ben Jonson and Will
Sbakspeare used to bandy “nimble words of
subtile flame.”
Ex-Premier Holman was fined half a
crown the other day for a breach of the
Commonwealth electoral law. Still, he has
some distance to go to catch up to ex-
Premier Watt, who has been finad repeatedly
for not having his children vaccinated.
Walter Watts, F.L.S., who went west at
Canterbury (Vic.) lately, aged 64, knew as
much about mosses as anyone in Australia.
But this was a side-line; his regular job
was editing the Scotchbyterian sheet, the
Presbyterian. Before that he meenistered
in the Mai lee, where mosses grow only on
the inhabitants.
Frank Anstey has returned ,to the House
of Reps., but, though he has lost none of
his fervor, the hectic language hasn’t so
far had a flash of the old wit and sarcasm.
Time was when the promise of a word from
the tribune for Bourlte would empty the bar
and billiard-room and bring the public
swarming in. But it was a very different
tribune.
“Gus” James, about whose elevation to the
N.S.W. Supreme Court bench so much noise
has recently been heard in Macquarie-street.
is the son of a one-time popular preacher and
many-times president of the old Primitive
Methodist Church. In his youthful days
the newly-appointed acting-Judge lifted up
a tuneful baritone voice to assist the choir
in his father's bethel.
Died on September 10. Jane, widow of
Stephen Campbell Brown, aged 85 years.
Her husband, born in Sydney in 1829, was
one of the city’s best-known solicitors a
generation and a half ago. In 1864 he
entered Parliament for Newtown, and held
the seat until 1881 —the year before he died.
Though an able man he had but one spell
of office —as P.M.G. under I’arkes.
Thomas Allard Pettit, who answered the
last call at Traralgon (Vic.), established the
Farmers’ Journal there in 1887, thinking
it a better spec, than the Shepparton Adver-
tiser, which he,had passed on to somebody
else. He held on to the Journal, though
he bought and sold about 30 other papers in
Vic., and must have made a heap of money
in these and land deals, llis children fol-
lowed him along the Inky Way. He was well
past 70.
Alfred May, dead in Adelaide at 68. was
one of that city’s many prominent Cornish-
men. He came as a child, with his father,
to the copper-mines of Burra and Wallaroo,
became foreman to the big engineering firm
of James Martin and Co., and in 1885 founded
the business which is now May Bros, and Co.
It makes both harvesting and mining
machinery for every State in Australia, and
he was its chairman of directors till his last
illness. He lost one son in the Boer War,
another in France, and leaves four more,
besides three daughters.
Passed out at Gore (M.L.) the other day,
John Cregan, one of Southland’s pic-
turesque pioneers. A keen Shakspearean,
when Irving played in Dunedin he
reserved a seat by wire, and travelled
160 miles to see “Hamlet.” Early in
the performance Cregan uttered some scath-
ing comments; but the climax came during
the third act. On speaking the line “Look
here upon this picture” Irving held the
picture away from the Queen. It was too
much for Cregan. who rose and thundered,
“Show her the picture, man! Show her the
picture!” This brought the usher to light,
and he requested Cregan to leave the theatre.
“Leave the theatre!” roared Cregan. “Good
Heavens, you didn't expect I was going to
stay here and see the play murdered, did
you?” Cregan’s exit was the most masterly
scene ever witnessed in His Majesty’s.
This comes out of the West:—
Alick Clydesdale, Mayor of South Perth, will try
to win the Canning seat for Labor (“Cocky” Robin-
son, a former Attorney-General, has kept it warm
for six years) at the Westraliai) elections. Clydes-
dale looks after Wren’s racing interests in the
Sunset State, and is the power behind the Ugly
Men’s Association, a movement unique of its kind.
Originating as a humorous protest against beauty
competitions, it developed into an organisation for
helping Billjim’s wife and kiddies while Billjim
was at the war, and long before war-service homes
loomed up it had built scores of houses for soldiers’
widows. Then it took hold of an almost bankrupt
children’s hospital and put it on a solid footing.
When the Westralian Diggers came home they were
guided to a fine Ugly Men's farm-school, in which
hundreds of them have been grounded in agriculture
and helped on to suitable land. An extension of the
school is planned -to meet the requirements of Tommy
soldiers, who are beginning to reach Westralia in
large numbers: in the meantime Tommy, when he
arrives at Fremantle, is taken under the Associa-
tion’s sheltering wing and assisted into a job. The
whole thing is a fine example of social service,
and it has moderated the hostility of the Rev.
Wowser to 'the sporting interest. For most of the
Ugly Men arg, unabashed “sports.”
Dan White, the Melbourne carriage-builder,
had a birthday last week—his 86th. He has
been treasurer of the Vic. Chamber of Manu-
factures for 30 or 40 years, and if there were
an Old Business Boys’ Association he’d be
president of that.
Agar Wynne is ending his 30-year political
career with a sense of disappointment. In
Victorian politics he was the leader of the
House of Landlords in three Governments.
Then he went into
the House of Reps,
and became P.M.G.
In the belief that
he was to be the
saviour of his State
as Premier, he
came out for St.
Kilda three years
ago and won. Be-
fore he could warm
his seat he was
made Attorney-
General and Rail-
way Minister by
Bowser; but the
Ministry was up-
set in four months,
and since then he
has just marked
time. Last session
he made a bid for
the Premiership, but
his luck was still
out; his honorary
whip, Andy Robert-
son, injured his
leg, and the bottom
fell out of Wynne’s
hopes for the last
time.
HECTOR
LAMOND.
M.H.R.
Richard Witty Foster, on whom sundry
newspapers lately fixed an undeserved co-
respondentship, has this in his favor. He
runs a general store at Qnorn (S.A.), and
foreseeing the coming rise in prices, when
the storm broke in 1914 he gave instruc-
tions that the whole of his big stock was to
be sold before any line was advanced in
price.
Victorian legislators are saying farewell
with genuine regret to M. K. McKenzie, who
will not seek re-election for Upper Goulburn
next month. Blindness and advancing years
have not .dulled a keen brain, but the effects
of a severe fall two years ago and the strain
of late nights and tiresome debates have made
retirement imperative. An excellent memory
for voices enables the sightless law-maker to
recognise even casual acquaintances without
difficulty.
Of a “Bullant” that will sting no more: —
It was “Smiler” Hales who persuaded A. N.
(“Bullant”) Mclntyre to take up newspaper work.
“Bullant’s” talent for invective, for which he was
best known, was really subordinate in his own mind
to his flair for mining hews and the possibilities of
a mine. When writing his diatribes he had a pecu-
liar habit of dipping his pen deep into the inkpot and
hitting the bottom four or five times. When the
article in which some, unfortunate was being skinned
was written he would sit back and with an impish
chuckle audibly wonder how the victim would take
it. As likely as not he would Wander round a few
minutes afterwards and have a drink at the victim’s
pub (they mostly had pubs). He was quite fearless.
Before the Bullfinch boom he was at loggerheads
with the directorate of a Melbourne co. which owned
a lease to the south. Having a few words one
evening with a 14-stone director of this c‘o.,
the latter asked him to be moderate in his language.
“You are not in Collins-street now,” said Mac. in
his incisive and high-pitched voice. “You are on
the goldfields, where if a man thinks you a liar he
calls you one; if he thinks you a qualified liar he
says so, and if he thinks you a double-blanked aster-
isked unmentionable liar he tells you so, too—and
that’s what you are.” The director left it at that.
“Jammy” Dawson, who thinks he has been
Chief Inspector of N. S. Wales Schools
long enough, did the State’s education one
fine turn: though he was a good Scot, he
.strove to make the youngsters know their
own country best. And -it took some striv-
ing. Thirty years ago, as a young inspec-
tor, he was at Nelligen. Teacher, asked what
geography the children had been having,
said: “They’ve been all through England,
Ireland, Scotland. Wales, Kamchatka —in
fact, every part of the known world.” Then
the inspector faced the class. “Who can
tell me where the Currockbilly Range is?”
No hand went up: the kiddies looked flabber-
gasted. The skulldriver, standing by,
fidgeted, and then approached the inspector.
“Currockbilly Range! The children don't
know it, and I don’t know it!” Here Daw-
son led the puzzled pedagogue to the door,
and pointed to the range—a spur of the
Great Dividing chain—towering up within
easy walking distance of the seminary.
(Continued on page 18.)
AMATEURS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•“Men still give coppers to beggars in the street,
and so help to disorganise charitable organisation.”
—Report of the Charity Organisation Society ( Vic.).
Despite the squeeze of the sharks who seize
Of profit each jot they can,
And the things they dare with the togs we wear,
The way they cheat on the stuff we eat,
Yet ever remains the man
Who, when the mendicant shakes his tin,
Recks nought of order or discipline,
But takes a quiz where his loose change is
And drops a few coppers in.
To this man’s mind to be lame or blind
Or hungry or poor or glum,
Is argument super-eloquent;
The asker has not what the asked has got,
And dividend time has come; .
With ne’er a thought there are folk about
With expert knowledge on how to shout
In a way that’ll cent.-per-cent, present,
Like an amateur he shells out!
It’s men like them the elect condemn—
Sad, jovial, bluff old boys—
Who slap a pound or a thrum around
In thoughtless zeal, just because they feel
Some others should share their joys!
Anarchists these, and how shall sys-
Tem, order, method, analysis
Do aught but crash as long as they splash
Their pennies about like this!
VICTORIA.
COPABELLA.


"S'.
rV
5 1 ; ?.
fo
m.
%
i«
OSACC
t~oBAC co
MM
I
6465
U
Ii^ELOCK.
JL JL TORA^rn
Take enough with you on your holidays
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
ae**


Australian-made
Implements and Engines.
KAY
//-£
iiiiwrinmiMir
The Sunshine Harvester
Gets all the Grain.
Durable, Light in Draught,
Best Sample.
Illustrated Catalogue Free and Post Free.
Harvesters, Headers, Grain & Fertiliser Drills, Engines, ChafFcutters, Oat-
crushers, Saw-benches, Pumping Jacks, Spring Tine Cultivators, Lucerne
Cultivators, Orchard Cultivators, Disc Cultivators, Mould-hoard Ploughs, Disc
Ploughs, Stump-Jump Ploughs, Harrows, Swingletrees, Chain and Pulley Yokes,
Plough Shares and Farm Engines.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
“Joe” : Talking of professorial humor (B.
9/9/’2O). “Tiger” Lyons, lecturer in maths,
at Sydney - Uni., while holding forth on the
mysteries of the infinitesimal calculus, bored
some of his students. One of them began
to chirp. “Tiger” didn’t hesitate. Said
he: “That chicken will be ‘clucked’ in
December!” Sure enough the chicken teas.
Shortly after Toorak’s member, who is
now retiring from public life, got into the
Vic. Assembly, .he made it known that he
would like the “Norman” to be always
linked on to the “Bayles” when he was
referred to in the House. Little Alf Bailes,
now in the Government Printing Office, was
then one of the two representatives of Ben-
digo district. Instigated by some of the
“sporty” members, A. W. Craven, Chair-
man of Committees, dug up Alf’s second
name, which he used only for nomination
purposes. The first time Bendigo’s choice
rose in a full House after the conspiracy,
Craven called “Mr. Shrapnell Bailes.” Alf
was staggered, but, quickly recovering, told
a smiling House that he would not hang fire.
“Mulga”: Two Bananaland schoolgirls
challenge comparison with the N.S.W. girl
who travels 105 miles five days a week to
and from Fort-street - (B. 9/9/’2O). For
two years now' the Bananalanders have jour-
neyed from Chinchilla to Dalby to attend
the High School, a distance of 51 miles, or
102 miles return. Leaving Chinchilla at
6.45 a.m., they do not arrive back until
9.15 p.m., the return train journey starting
from Dalby at 6.15.
If George Arnall, who had a “golden”
wedding the other day at Kew (Vic.), had
done nothing more than publish the Muni-
cipal Directory he would deserve well of
public men and officials, but he has achieved
much more during his 68 years in Mel-
bourne. Beginning as a printer’s devil, he
became the head of the Collins-street print-
ing firm of Arnall and Jackson, and was
head man of the employers’ union before
it was dignified with the name of “federa-
tion.” Bowls has been his pet recreation.
, From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
William Nicholson, “The Father of the Ballot”
(B. 9/9/’2O), a plain, blunt man of the John Bull
type, always wore a white vest and a fclaw-hammer
coat. He came from Cumberland in 1842, and com-
menced business in a small way as a grocer on
the north side of Collins-street, between Swanston
and Elizabeth streets. Entering the City Council,
he was Mayor in 1850-51, being in office when Separa-
tion from N. S. Wales came. In 1852 he got into
Parliament —in the Single-Chamber days—and was
one of the committee selected to draft an autono-
mous Constitution for Victoria. He went to Eng-
land in May, 1856, and was feted there as “The
Father of the Ballot.” On his return to Melbourne
he was returned to the Leg. Assembly for Sandridge
(now Port Melbourne), and in the following October
(1859) he turned out the O’Shanassy Ministry and
GEORGE
DANCEY,
for years and years
the very capable
black - and - white
draughtsman o if
Melbourne PUNCH.
became Premier and Chief Secretary, with some
strong colleagues. The Ministry lasted just 13
months; then Richard Heales formed the People’s
Ministry, and shortly afterwards Nicholson retired.
He died in 1870.
Eric Sleight Smith, who has dropped his
job as secretary to the N. S. Wales State
Repatriation Commission to help the
Chamber of Manufacturers along, has seen
life in many phases. He has travelled the
Inky Way in the interests of the S. M.
Herald. Sydney Telegraph and Age.
Before that he did presswork in M.L., and
before that again he pushed a pen in China.
He has travelled in South America, Africa
and India, fought in three wars—against
the Matabele, the Boer and the Hun—and
has been reported dead about 17 times.
The recent death at Hobart of William
Crooke, persistent publicist, enthusiastic
angler, and for years known as the writer
of “Jollytail’s” chatty Fishing Notes in
Hobart Mercury, reminds a correspondent
that the phrase “dropped his sinker,”
often used in political circles to describe the
achievement of a candidate who polls so few
votes that his money-deposit becomes forfeit,
originated in connection with a Tasmanian
Parliamentary election wherein the energetic
Crooke happened to be among the markedly
unsuccessful contestants. A local journal
headlined the calamity: “Angler Candidate
Loses £25 Sinker,” or words to that effect.
The slang term stuck, as slang terms so
often do.
“To Po”: Judge Wasley and poet Ber-
nard O’Dowd, as nippers, attended A. A.
Buley’s Grenville College, Ballarat, an insti-
tution that turned out many bright boys.
They competed for the position of dux, and
one beat the other by a very few marks.
Some of us oldsters can still visualise
O'Dowd, aged 15, with a small hat stuck
sideways on his auburn locks, a short pipe
in his mobile mouth, dreaming poetry while
sauntering along Holmes-street to * school,
with Principal Buley, a grand fellow, gazing
horror-stricken in the distance. O’Dowd
caught it hot and strong; but it made little
difference, for next morning out came the
clay again. Whenever Buley whacked the
future philosophical poet, he would say,
“You will go far, O’Dowd, if steered rightly,
and it’s my business to steer ye.”
Accident decided the career of Miles Stani-
forth Cater Smith. In 1901, being then
Mayor of Kalgoorlie, he nominated for the
local seat in the State Assembly, and unwit-
tingly held his first committee meeting in
a pub. That was an infraction of the Elec-
toral Act, and Smith had to withdraw from
the contest. As it happened, the State and
Federal elections were separated by only a
few weeks, and, determined to have a fly at
something. Smith became a candidate for
the Senate. Greatly to his astonishment he
headed the poll. lie served his six years as
Senator, and seeing no hope in the world
of another term, Labor having established
a monopoly of the Westralian seats in the
Senate, he dropped into the first congenial
Commonwealth billet available. which
chanced to be a job in Papua. In time he
became Administrator, and he now rules
the roost at Darwin —when the A.W.U. lets
him. But if it hadn’t been for that stroke
of luck in the pub he would never have been
a Westralian Senator or a Tropical official.
Bent is credited by the Argus with having
hit on the Licenses Reduction Board plan for
improving the quality while reducing the
quantity of Victoria’s pubs; but it was Alf
Bailes, then member for Bendigo, who blazed
the track for Tummas. Bailes, however, had
a different idea for providing compensation.
He wanted a percent-
age on proms as
shown by the income-
tax. If a low amount
for tax was put down,
he argued, compensa-
tion would also be
low, and if a high
amount were returned
the State revenue as
w r ell as the compensa-
tion fund would bene-
fit. Reckoning all
the chances, he
thought honesty would
be found the best
policy.
S. MILLS, member
of the Interstate
Commission. Geo.
Swinburne retired
in 1915, and Mills,
who teas Controller-
General of Customs,
was appointed in his
place. Lockyer has
now retired from the
Commission, so that
Piddington is the only
one of the original
Commissioners left.
J. J. MacGinley, M.A., LL.B., the selected
Labor candidate for Murilla in the Banauur
land elections, should win if brains count.
One of a family of 13, he toiled on the
farm when a lad, and without any special
preparation passed the Public Service
examination. Entering the Mines Depart-
ment in 1900, in two years he passed the
first-class mining engineers’ examination.
Next, turning his attention to law. he was
admitted to the Bar in 1905, and at the
same time qualified and passed as a first-
class mine manager. Land and railway
surveying next attracted his attention, and
in 1911 he secured the first plape in the
surveyors’ examination. Proceeding to Eng-
land, he obtained his Arts degree with
honors, simultaneously doing various other
courses with honors. On returning to
Bananaland in 1917 he became legal assist-
ant in the Justice Department, and recently
was chosen for the position of Master of
Titles with the right of private practice
at any of the professions he has acquired.
That industrious novelist and dramatist,
William Somerset Maugham—he is also, by
the way, an M.D., who served at the Front
—is shortly paying Australia a visit to see
what the Digger really looks like at home.
It is a moral certainty that he will write
a play afterwards with an Australian “at-
mosphere,” and certain also that he will get
it staged—a Gilbertian situation which will
appeal to the native-born playwrights who
have tried for years in vain to get a show.
Still Maugham is probably the best writer
of light comedies in England to-day, and
no slouch as a novelist.
OLD MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old man, old man, sitting in the sun,
What was the struggle worth now the race is runf
How does life look to you now it’s all behindt
Under your bald pate what lingers in your mind f
X wonder if you cherish still
The blue day on the windy hill
When first your eyes met hers, and things
Bright as a pigeon’s sheeny wings
Flashed through you, and delight
Burned you with kisses white.
I wonder if you love the best
The memories of rowdy jest
Made carelessly with fellows who
Laughed and were young with you—
Laughed and drank well and long,
Tipsy and full of song.
I wonder do you dwell with pride
On those rough days in which you tried
Your strength against your fellow men,
And won and lost and won again—
Happy to toil and strive
That you should be alive!
Is gladness hid in moonlit eves
When love comes sighing through the leaves ?
Or is it garish stressful 'days
To which your hungry fancy strays—
Green seas, the busy mart,
Which wrote upon your heart?
Have you regret for marriage ties?
Did children make you sad and wise?
What mattered much? What not at all? '
And, prithee, what would you recall
And leave undone, to reap
Sounder and sweeter sleep?
Old man, old man, drawing near the night,
Speak wisely through your beard, answer me aright —
That I may have good dreamings when life is done,
Leaving me to bide as you, cold in the sun!
VICTOKU.
DALE COLLINS.


THE AGE OF IRON and STEEL.
THE MOTHER OF MANY INDUSTRIES.
1N this age of steel the country
which does not develop its resources
in that direction must remain in
the backwash of nations. This is
especially true of Australia. Not only
can this Commonwealth never attain
industrial prosperity unless we produce
our own iron and steel, but its national
security would ever be in jeopardy.
There is probably no country on the
globe richer in iron ore, coal and lime-
stone —the raw materials of iron and
steel —than the Commonwealth of
Australia. The supply is unlimited.
Iron and steel form the trunk of the
industrial tree from which the subsi-
diary industries branch out, covering
the land with busy workshops, which
provide the essentials of national wealth
and power. Without the trunk we can-
not have the branches, and yet, until a
few years ago, this remote outpost of
the white race endeavored to establish
the branches in the absence of their
parent trunk.
It will be readily understood that
industries which had to depend on their
materials bought in markets thousands
of miles away in oversea countries were
more or less unstable. To keep them
going meant that millions of pounds
were annually sent to foreign countries
to enrich the people of those lands, to
our loss. This in time of peace was in-
jurious, but when war involved us,
nothing shdtt of disaster would have
overwhelmed the Commonwealth had
not the foundation of our own iron and
steel industry been laid on a strong and
solid base. It is a story of achievement
by strong men who never sought to
stand in the limelight, and its telling
is the best of object-lessons to impress
Australians with the supreme value of
this great basis industry.-
EARLY EFFORTS.
The first effort to smelt iron oTe was
made at Mittagong in 1848. It failed.
The first blast furnace was blown in at
the Eskbank works in the Lithgow Val-
ley, New South Wales, on December 16,
1875. Two years later the works were
producing 100 tons of pig iron per
week from iron ores taken from the sur-
rounding district. The production of
pig iron ceased in 1882, 4320 tons being
produced that year. The cessation of
this work was due to the inability of the
company to compete against imports
from overseas. Mr. W. Sandford took
the works over in 1886, and they were
continuously employed until 1907 in
the manufacture of bar iron, rails and
fastenings, black sheets and corrugated
iron, steel castings, points and crossings
and many other articles, from imported
pig iron and local scrap iron. The works
included a colliery, where the coal was
taken from an adit, the same skips run-
ning from the face of the coal to the
furnace bins, and then tipped without
the coal being handled. There were two
Siemens’ open-hearth furnaces (the only
ones in Australia) and steel foundry
adjoining, where steel castings were
made for the Government, private
engineering firms and mining com-
panies. Galvanised corrugated sheets
were produced from ingots turned out
from these furnaces. There were also
puddling and heating furnaces, and
large steam hammers, mills for rolling
flats from fin. to lOin.; rounds and
squares from fin. to 4fin.; angles and
tees, from fin. by fin. to 6in. by 3f in.,
and all merchantable sections: two
large-sheet mills, with galvanising de-
partment for converting the black sheets
into galvanised corrugated iron; also a
foundry and fitting shops, where points
and crossings, bolts and nuts and spikes
were made.
G. & C. HOSKINS’ WORKS
AT LITHGOW.
In 1907 Mr. Sandford found himself
unable to continue. His losses in that
year amounted to no less than £20,000.
The works were then taken over by
Messrs. G. & C. Hoskins, under whose
control they have been ever since. Messrs.
Hoskins have made a plucky fight in the
face of great difficulties, until to-day
they employ upwards of 3000 men and
carry out a great variety of work.
The rolling of rails for the Victorian
Government, 350 miles of pipes for the
Coolgardie water-supply scheme, gal-
vanised-iron sheets for buildings —all
come alike to the gigantic machinery at
the works. Onebf the huge blast furnaces
at Lithgow was imported from Eng-
land, but a twin brother was wholly
made in Australia, mainly by G. & C.
Hoskins, Ltd. Over 9000 tons of material
go in and out of these furnaces weekly.
Over 2000 tons of coke a week are burnt
by them, and for cooling purposes and
for the boilers 4,000,000 gallons of water
have to be pqmped every week from the
reservoir at the works. Iron-ore mines,
coal mines and limestone quarries are all
directly controlled by Messrs. Hoskins in
connection with their great undertaking.
THE NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS.
In 1912 a fresh development took
place, when the Broken Hill Proprietary
Company decided to extend its operations
to the production of iron and steel. This
was a momentpus decision, as subse-
quent developments proved, and one of
vital importance to the Commonwealth.
Oyer 20 years ago the company had
acquired two enormous deposits of the
highest quality iron ore on the west side
of Spencer Gulf, known as the Iron Knob
and the Iron Monarch. The quantity of
ore is practically inexhaustible, while
the quality is remarkable, assays show-
ing 66.68 per cent, of metallic iron.
The site for the steel works was fixed
at Newcastle, New South Wales, as no
coal seams of value exist in the neighbor-
hood of the ore supply in South Australia.
The question of tonnage necessitated
this decision, as it takes three tons of
coal to produce one ton of steel. The
works were erected on the water-front
of Port Waratah, Newcastle, on the site
of the old Waratah Copper Smelting
Works. The company holds there an
area of 400 acres, with a considerable
water frontage. A coal bin with a capa-
city of 5500 tons was built when the
construction of .the first blast furnace
began. This bin is so arranged and fitted
that coal for shipment to Port Pirie and
Brokeft Hill can be loaded into vessels
at the rate of from 400 to 600 tons an
hour. This economy of time and labor
is-adopted right through the great works.
The furnaces and stoves are so placed
in proximity to the wharves that ore can
be conveyed to them from incoming
ships with a minimum of labor and ex-
pense. The work is carried out by two
mechanically operated ore bridges run-
ning high above the wharves. Grab
buckets take the ore out of the ship’s
hold with great rapidity.
Hundreds of miles from Newcastle,
in New South Wales, away to Port Pirie,
in South Australia, at the Hummocky
Hill Jetty on Spencer Gulf, is where the
iron ore is loaded from the Iron Knob.
Conveyors carry it into the ships’holds
at the rate of 1000 tons an hour. When
ore is handled in such quantities and at
such a rate it will naturally be asked what
becomes of it, and a glance at the works
of Port Waratah will answer the ques-
tion. The furnace first erected for smelt-
ing has a capacity of 450 tons of pig iron
a day. Threa, blowing engines, two of
high pressure and one of low pressure,
are provided to supply the 35,000 feet
of air required to keep the furnace run-
ning. To operate the furnace, two of
these blowing engines are used at the
same time. This furnace, with its out-
put of 450 tons a day, proved quite in-
sufficient, so a second furnace of similar
capacity, with all the necessary bins
and equipment, was installed. Even this
failed to fill the demand, and a third of
100 tons capacity was added to produce
iron for the use of iron founders. These
three blast-furnaces produce 360,000
tons of pig iron per annum.
The production of steel is carried out
at the Steel Plant, which - consists of
seven open-hearth furnaces, each of con-
siderable capacity. The feeding of these
steel furnaces, which work at high pres-
sure, is impressive to witness. A single
charge for one of the big furnaces con-
sists of 40,0001 b. of steel scrap, 80,0001 b.
of pig iron, 20,001 b. of limestone, and
12,0001 b. of ore. The containers holding
the charges are placed on trucks, which a
locomotive pushes up an inclined railway
from the ground to the charging floor.
At the works there are forty (40) miles
of railway, operated by 15 locomotives.
This alone will convey to the reader some
idea of the magnitude of the enterprise.
To date the Broken Hill Proprietary
Company has invested in land, plant,
machinery and buildings no less a sum
than £3,250,000 in its Newcastle Steel
Works. It directly employs4soomen,and
provides a yearly wages sheet of £700,000.
IMPORTANT SUBSIDIARY
INDUSTRIES.
The Steel Works at Newcastle is the
centre from which radiate numerous im-
portant subsidiary industries. This Steel
Works is what has been well named a
“key” industry, because it has opened the
long-locked door in this country to other
urgently-needed enterprises. Among
these may be mentioned the Austral
Nail Company, which has erected a
plant for the production of wire for
fencing and for other purposes. Messrs.
John Lysaght, Ltd., are establishing a
plant to manufacture galvanised iron
and black steel sheets. A company is
about to start a tinplate mill with a
capacity of 30,000 tons a year. These
three enterprises will require up to
100,000 tons of steel a year, which will
be provided by the Newcastle Steel
Works. Arrangements are in progress
for starting pipe and tube works, boiler-
making, cast-iron pipe, wire rope and
wire netting manufacture, and compo-
site wire industries. It is, of course,
well known that the Steel Works, which
has the largest steel casting plant in the
Commonwealth, makes very large steel
castings and huge ingots for manufac-
turing shipbuilding machinery, and that
it supplies the Governments of Austra-
lia with steel rails for railways, fish-
plates, girders, etc.
Notwithstanding the fabulous wealth
won from the silver-lead deposits of
Broken Hill, the potential wealth in the
huge iron-ore deposits of Iron Knob and
Iron Monarch, linked with the New-
castle coal deposits, is greater.
The British Government placed an
order for 20,000 tons of munition steel,
rails and fishplates, whilst the South
African Government also obtained
16,000 tons of rails and fishplates dur-
ing the war period from the Newcastle
Steel Works.
For unnumbered centuries the raw
materials for this great basic industry
have been lying undeveloped. We have
had to draw those vital supplies, which
are the life’s blood of so many industries,
from far-off countries; but now that
folly and danger is removed. This in-
dustrial revolution has not been effected
by chance or accident. Two important
factors were required to bring it about.
These were money and brains. It is very
easy to talk, about “our great natural
resources” and the necessity for develop-
ing them. It is, however, quite another
story to turn our latent resources into
coin of the realm by converting them to
the service of man. The most apparent
of our potential wealth is to be seen in
iron ore. It abounds in every State, and
for half a century past enthusiasts have
clamored for its conversion into iron
and steel. Many attempts to do. so have
been made, and they failed because,
obvious as the material may be, its uti-
lisation into marketable products is one
of the most • costly and difficult of all
industrial enterprises.
. The initial difficulties appear now to
have been overcome, and those respon-
sible for the conduct of the industry
have both right and reason behind them
when they ask that support be given to
this Key Industry of Iron and Steel pro-
duction. We have to populate this coun-
try, and we must also be prepared to
defend it. For present requirements the
production of steel and iron, with all the
subsidiary industries it nourishes —for
it is a mother of industries —would sup-
port at least 30,000 workmen, who, with
their dependants, are surely needed in
this sparsely-populated country. It not
only provides us with sturdy men, but
it gives us ramparts of steel to defend
our nationhood.
ITS IMPORTANCE TO THE MAN ON
THE LAND.
To the farmer —to the man on the land
in general —the importance of the Com-
monweath being self-contained in this
industry cannot be over-estimated. Up
till recently our people have been abso-
lutely dependent on oversea countries
for the very essentials of their industrial
life. The farmer is the largest user of
iron and steel products. His implements
for seed-time and harvest, for the work
of the dairy, the orchard, for his build-
ings, wire for his fences and netting, all
have their origin in the steel works.
Without them he cannot have railways
to carry his produce to the seaboard or
up-to-date steamships with refrigerating
machinery to take them oversea. Let him
ask himself this question: “Is it best to
depend upon foreign countries for such
vital supplies or on his own country?”
Only a fool or an enemy would answer:
“Let us import them.” The farmer is
neither of these. He gave the fullest
proof of that during the war. No section
of the community served his country and
the Empire as the man on the land did.
He gave freely in flesh and blood and of
the produce of his toil. For patriotic
reasons alone the farmer can be de-
pended on to support his own country’s
iron and steel industry; but there.are
also material and commercial reasons
why he should do so. With works within
the borders of his own land, with inex-
haustible raw materials of ore, coal and
fluxes to draw upon, he can never be cut
off from iron and steel by enemy action
or other causes. From iron and steel
works in Australia a host of important
subsidiary industries have their birth.
Thousands and tens of thousands of
men, with their dependants, find remu-
nerative employment in these industries.
The farmer has to feed this host, and in
them he has a sure and quick market
which submarines cannot dislocate.
There has been for a long time a cry
for more people in this sparsely popu-
lated continent. How can we get those
sadly needed men and women unless we
find work for them ? They cannot all go
on the land, and they cannot, all crowd
into our already congested cities making
boots and clothes for each other. We must
have virile industries,, and the most
virile of all —which is the birthplace of
other industries —is the production of
iron and steel. The country wants men
to labor on the land also, and it is diffi-
cult to get them. The communities
which spring up round the iron indus-
try will furnish some of that labor. The
sons of the workmen there will not all
want to follow in their fathers’ foot-
steps. Many of them will gravitate to
the land, either to farm themselves or
to work for farmers.
From a money point of view the iron
and steel industry will help the man on
the land. It will keep millions of pounds
a year in Australia whiph has been go-
ing to oversea countries. There will be
more money in the Commonwealth to
lend, and interest will be lower. The
Savings Banks will have more funds to
extend their Credit Fongier system or
to lend the States for reproductive
undertakings, such as water supply,
roads and -railways. The farmer most of
all will feel the benefits flowing from
the utilisation of our vast iron resources.
The farmer is the modern Atlas. He
carries the world of humanity on his
back. He can carry it much easier
when buttressed and strengthened by
the pillars of steel which are now being-
raised around him in Australia.


iM
£*2
•S 3
A
m
IBH
"i. I|
£
**
V-,
•T 7.;
r
j-
-7
fe
'' : -’Sj?
(f %
“MS
"I 7=
£ 'll '
tAif
if
c 7
rornt
SU
FI
Your Next Suit
Be sure it’s good all through—good style, good
workmanship and all-wool fabrics. Pay a good
price to get all this—your clothes will last longer
—be more economical.
All-wool Fox’s navy serge suits to measure, Bgns.
All-wool Australian tweed suits to measure, 7gns.
Patterns free. We pay carriage.
David < Jones'
for Service
SYDN EY
Opp. G.P.O.
Tel. City 6336.
rjrogß
Wi
ft
%
* a
N
v .
V*
. **H»
OwsS
TyreValue
Tyre value is based on two qualities:
strength and comfort.
In every test to which tyres can be put,
Goodrich tyres have proved their superior
strength and endurance.
But Goodrich rubber experts have gone
further than to produce merely a durable
tyre; they have produced a durable-
resilient tyre.
Through years of study and labor they
have produced a black tread rubber tyre
that combines the highest degree of du-
rability with resiliency.
Thus Goodrich tyres offer you the best
tyre value in strength and comfort.
Goodrich tyres are dependable.
DUVAL 8 CO.,
Sydney,
Melbourne
& Brisbane
Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Adelaide
u
•J
Goodrich
E.T.5
The Outer Isles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OF all the golden isles of Torres, Mau-
biaug seems to me best, though some
speak for Murray, where Nunciata
sits and smiles, the loveliest thing alive. The
nipa-palms sway to the Strait; great spreads
of golden sand enswathe the jewel, and
there are mantling cliffs crowned by a far-
famed look-out. In the long-ago its warriors
kept watch from this eyrie for mighty canni-
bal chiefs who sailed across from the
Papuan coast in pageantry of brown-satin
bodies and dogs’-teeth necklaces, paradise
plumes prinked in their hair.
The island’s jungle-ways throb with
silence. The Fern of God lifts its lovely tend-
rils out above the treetops; butterflies, beau-
tiful beyond belief, and birds, their plumage
Persian-blue and peacock-green and beetle-
bronze, and flashing dragonflies skim the
crystal-clear creeks that ripple down the
waterways.
On the heights of the cliff, set in an orange
grove, slumbers the old sheller-house, over-
looking the 37 blues of Torres Strait. I
loved its nooks and porches, woven of dreams
for a wayward pearl wife: they are fallen
asunder now, but are lovely still all shrouded
in rose-red antigone. And its Arabian-nigh*
bathing-pool—down 12 stens in the cliff-
side ; all curtained in blue arbutus.
.Dread isle this of the last Great Medicine-
man, who alone knows the pourri-pourri of
the alligator’s tooth —a terrible sorcery that
can slgy a man down under the Strait in
his diving-dress or anywhere else one wishes.
A silent old soul, sitting by the hour on
his mat in the palm patch, his eyes bore
through one’s body. He took a little dead
lizard out of the sand and spoke over it, and
touched it with his sorcery-stone. The little
lizard-soul came back, and its body crawled
jerkily, unwillingly, away. Or so it all
seemed to me.
One gold noon he sat alone staring out
across the Strait. I came up from a walk-
about on the reef—very well pleased, for a
spine of my dugong-dart had found for me
a strangely-wrought bronze belt in a cleft
of the coral. It was hot. I sat down in
the sands and as did he, across the
white-lipped waters. Out in the offing three
silver-sailed luggers, one a little ahead of
the others, were scudding across the Strait,
driven by the sou’-east trade winds. As I
watched them the leading lugger stopped,
and the other two skimmed past it. “Can
go?” asked the medicine-man many minutes
later. “Yes,” I said. He spoke a little
and spread out his hands, and the craft sped
on. Or so this, too, seemed to me.
Last time I stayed on the island, Ambon,
the Mamoose’s son. was timed to spear his
dugong. A tremendous rite this first dugong-
spearing: it confers the patent of manhood
upon the spearer. Six feet of splendid
adolescence was Ambon, but a bit of a boaster.
He took the hearts of the island maids in
his lordly young stride and trampled on
them. He began to have a fancy for Fenella
of the many admirers. She laughed at him.
(And why not —did she not own a swim-dive
outfit, and was she not very lovely?) So
Ambon went out, with great ceremony, to
spear his dugong, and be made a man of.
He missed, because Rahu, his rival, had
pourri-pourried it so. He came back to the
island, and sat away alone. Fenella laughed
with Rahu, and the feast went on. Next
night Ambon went out secretly. In the
midst of *he dance he brought in his dugong
—the biggest in all the tales of Torres. He
took the great ivory tusks and proffered
them to Fenella, this being a Torres offer of
marriage. Fenella flouted him, he being
more or less a failure. In the great feast
that followed she waited on Rahu apd the
others, and scorned Ambon. Then came the
dance. Old Mooka the Mamoose set the tune
in his quavering falsetto. “Sara sara dila
waipa.” (“Seagull fly swiftly, here swimmeth
fish.”) Just when the dancers swirled and
swooped, Ambon’s carved seagull with
tortoiseshell wings broke loose from its
bamboo pole and fell at Fenella’s feet. She
laughed. Whereupon Ambon snatched up a
stick, and before the scandalised eyes of all
the island he beat her. Which showed that
Ambon was a man ; and Fenella followed him
home.
There is a mission church where four
times a Sunday the islandex-s save their
souls. Four times each Sabbath they prink
in royal blue and buttercup, and hats most
horrible, and stroll up the croton track to
the little church under the cocoanuts to sing
like seraphs. The Samoan lay-preacher gets
red in the face. He preaches Hell, and ex-
horts them to fetch him more fish—how can
a man live by hens alone! And twice a year
the islander halting between two opinions
goes secretly to the back of the island and
worships his ancient idols.
After evening prayer and praise the
Mamoose, the village constable, and a quar-
tette of councillors foregather and sit over
sins of omission and commission—mostly of
stolen cocoanuts and straying swine. Such
little sins, but discussed with awful solem-
nity.
All through the exotic night, flower-filled
with elusive fragrance, great fires crackle
under the pandanus in the village square
where Ambon and Negele dance, women with
women and men with men, gay ribbons
aflutter from their forearms. The callant
moon swings like a golden gondola high up
in the sapphire sky; and the stars come
down so close that -*yere I always a little
higher I could take them in my hand. Fire-
flies flutter through the frangipanis; ghost
tom-toms throb and thrill. The lurid scrub-
wood flames glow bronze on the islanders’
brown bodies. The Outer Isles gleam
through the star-strung night in misted jades
and amber. An atmospheric sorcery lifts
them above the silver-fretted sea and sus-
pends them mirage-like in space. The pur-
pling waters of the Strait curve to a foam-
flecked film about the reef, and drowse and
drone like far-off thunders.
When I am dead I would I might rest
awhile on Maubiaug and romp with the wee
brown babes about its beaches, and cool
myself a little in the rose-purple mists that
swathe its shimmering sands.
S. S. SEVERN.


X >•> H v 'J ' ■
’■ ' . .
!>
{■l _
a
11 i
>* m
‘. , ;
$ 111; *• ■!< >.-,"/* ■ V; Sffi' '.V '
. * -
~J. -iT"' % 1i
V '
r •,••■' l's '■
k' , infill? ■■ ’S
jp, /,- • ■ ••;
I \ ‘,w \ -MM
|mL H
. I •’*'• -
*\
■ ,
t ■% \
.■ m
wl
|MM|
..' WtHUM
[V -YX -A-.V
91191
.
Ml
1111
i
H
Wilier
GEARED-TO-THC ROAD
‘‘The tread with the
cog-like feet”
Miller Tyres are geared-to-the-road.
Like so many caterpillar feet gripping
the road surface, its cog-like tread-
pattern meshes with road depressions,
neutralising shock and ensuring posi-
tive full-powered traction.
The “Miller” Tread keeps the wheels
from spinning when the car is started.
This saves petrol—saves the tyres.
The Speedometer tells the Story.
In August, 1917, Mr. C. Marmaduke Deane, of
Sydney, fitted “Millers” to the rear wheels of his
car. The Speedometer read 5760 miles. After
travelling 2388 miles (Speedometer 8148) he
changed them to the front wheels.
In July, 1920, the Speedometer (13,796) showed
that the Miller Geared-to-the-road tyres had
covered 8036 MILES, having been in continuous
use since 1917. That record needs no comment.
Fit “ MILLER'S ” — hand-built by veterans!
The MILLER RUBBER CO., AKRON, OHIO.
Distributors :
N.S.W.: ROBERT LITTLE & CO., Sydney.
Victoria: LATROBE MOTORS PROP’T'Y, LTD., Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO.. LTD., Brisbane.
South Aus.: WALTER TURNER, Adelaide.
Tasmania : F. W. HERITAGE & CO., Hobart.
ttliUer
GEARED-TO-THE ROAD
UNIFORM MILEAGE
yres


.
ORIGINAL
BALATA
BRITISH
BELTING
The high character consistently built into every inch of
DICK’S Original Balata Belting is responsible for the
profound goodwill it enjoys with all leading Engineers
and Plant Owners. Its reputation for efficiency with
lowest operating costs is backed by over 35 years of’
faithful service and sturdy performance.
The plies of DICK'S Balata Belting will not part under the
severe mauling of shifters, as they are closely and firmly welded
together by, powerful machinery. There are no seams or splices
to bump, wear, or damage machinery.
Being impervious to all conditions of dampness, DICK’S is
the ideal belt for use in Refrigerating Plants, Laundries, Butter
and Dairy Factories, and in all plants where damp conditions
prevail.
One of our practical men will be pleased to consult with your
engineers regarding the correct application of belting, without
any obligation to you. WRITE FOR FREE COPY OF THE
BALATA BELT IN G BOOK.
JAMES HARDIE S COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY,
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co.,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
mm* unjiuin
Everywhere, in every walk of life, the
Gillette
Safety Razor
comes into daily use by twenty million
men who realise the value of its clean
smooth velvet shave.
The Gillette blade is double-edged
always sharp and quickly regulated
for close or light shaving. No stropping
—no honing ! The Gillette is the one
practical safety razor for the man who
wants a clean shave in quick time.
Standard Set: Heavy triple Silver-plated
razor and 1 dozen Gillette double-edged
blades in neat leather case, 28/6.
GILLETTE BLADES, 6/6 per dozen.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO.,
Canada.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Agents,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
KNOWN the
WORLD OVER
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney), which sells
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and sporting
goods, and began as a co. with £20,677 of the
capital represented by goodwill an# other
hypothetical assets:—
Written Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves. hcit.
1912. .£12,268 10 p.e. = £B,OOO £1132 id, 136 £17,541
1913.. 13,128 10 „ „ 9,06 u 1381 2,747 14,794
1914.. 13,295 10 „ ~ 9,000 1555 2,740 12,054
Added to goodwill, £BBO . . . . 12,934
1915.. 15,533 10 p.c. = 9,000 1565 4,968 7,906
Added to goodwill, £738 . . . . 8,704
1916.. 16,160 10 p.c. = 9,667 2080 4,419 4,285
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 14,285
1917.. 12,955 8 p.c. == 8,800 2215 1,940 12,345
Added to goodwill, £237 . . . . 12,582
1918.. 17,230 10 p.c. = 11,000 2622 3,608 8,974
1919.. 17,798 10 ~,,11,000 3942 2,856 6,118
Reserves.
1920.. 32,291 10 „ ~ 11,000 3684 17,607 11,489
The sudden leap in net profits from a 12+ to
a 26 p.c. return on paid capital called for a
few more words from the directors than their
mere “pleasure in reporting a successful
year’s operations,” particularly at a time
when the Storey-McTiernan party was in-
cubating its gaol-the-profiteer legislation. Mick
Simmons, Ltd., is the only Sydney Concern
in the ’bacca and superfluous-hair business
which makes its accounts public, but its fig-
ures are not a reliable guide to the general
conditions of the trade. There is not the
money in smokes that there used to be. But
Mick Simmons’s co. is on a particularly good
wicket: it is one of the few fortunate con-
cerns which, besides being retailers, are also
wholesale distributors for the manufacturers ;
and, presumably, as a retailer its stocks get
the benefit of the special discount it is allowed
as a wholesaler. Thus arises another of the
knotty p_roblems_attaching to the N. S. Wales
profiteering bill: since the co. secures its
supplies at a lower cost than most of the rest
of the trade, presumably it should (1) sell
at a lower price, and thus kill the trade of
the small men, (2) be permitted to continue
to make larger profits, or (3) sidestep any
legislation by turning its wholesale connec-
tions over to a subsidiary co. No doubt the
return of the Diggers helped the past year’s
trading, while probably something extra may
have flowed in from the old discount rates on
the higher prices. But besides tobacco and
hair-cuts, the co. has also a big turnover of
fancy goods, sports materials and other
luxuries, lines which probably give a hand-
some profit. Since the co. was established in
1911, expansion has been very rapid, and new
branches are still being established through-
out Sydney, while the business was extended
to Brisbane a couple of years ago. This
shows how some of the figures have moved
since the co.’s first year-
Gross Trading
Profits, etc. Expenses.
1912 .. .. £39,955 £28,819
1916 .. .. 59,441 44,855
1919 . . . . 75.943 62,089
1920 . . . . 106,780 78,178
The co. started with a paid capital of
£90,000, £20,677 of it goodwill. Paid capital
is now £llO,OOO, but £lO,OOO of that repre-
sents reserves capitalised four years ago.
A comparison of the balance-sheet figures
over two four-year periods shows these move-
ments :
1912. 1916. 1920.
Liabilities .. ..£20,179 £30,896 £89,537
Freeholds . . . . - 25,687
Stocks . . . . 57,041 87,363 124,365
Sundry debtors . . 16,999 17,82.7 27,004
Plant, etc 16,325 20,209 19,420
Cash, etc 6,549 6,112 18,472
During the past year the co. acquired free-
hold property set down at £25,687, but
£20,725 of the purchase price was financed
by mortgage. High prices have put a strain
on finances, for apart from the mortgage on
property liabilities are now double what they
were four years ago, though at the balance
there was £26,500 more stored-up profits in
hand than in 1916. Despite the loss of trade
occasioned by the war, the past four years
have been very profitable. The book value
of tangible assets expanded by £34,597
between 1912-16 with the assistance of
£lO,OOO of new capital and £10,717 additional
liabilities. During the past four years the
book value of tangibles has advanced £53,437
and liabilities have been increased by
£58,641. That shows the co. to have im-
proved its position by £13.880 during the
earlier period and by £24,796 since, after
paying 10 p.c. div.s. in every year except
1917. when S p.c. was distributed. But the
£lO,OOO capitalisation of reserves in 1916
makes the 10 p.c. sweeter than the same
rate formerly.
* * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on
Property Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves.
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital. . £21,584
Jan., 1913 .. £3038 £486 8 p.c. = £2294 22,814
July, 1913 .. 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23,879
Jan., 1914 .. 3295 423 8 „ „ 2294 25,303
July, 1914 . . 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915 .. 3612 360 8 „ „ 2294 23,936
July, 1915 .. 3400 139 10 „ „ 2868 29,607
Jan., 1916 .. 3622 10 „ „ 2868 30,361
July, 1916 . . 3268 360 10 „ „ 2868. 31,121
Jan., 1917 .. 3304 10 „ „ 2868 31,557
July, 1917 . . 3289 10 „ „ 2868 31,978
Jan., 1918 .. 3317 10 „ „ 2868 32,427
July, 1918 .. 3343 11 „ „ 3155 32,615
Jan., 1919 . . 3393 262 11 „ „ 3155 33,115
July, 1919 . . 3583 11 „ „ 3155 33,543
Jan., 1920 . . 3741 11 „ „ 3155 34,129
£22,855 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 11,274
Written off, £B9 11,185
July, 1920 . . 3724 1904 8 p.c. = 3208 13,605
Six months ago this building society showed
foreclosed properties, £37li. During the
past half-year it reduced the line by £3262,
and admits having bagged £1904 over and
above book values. The book value of rem-
nants of the old boom days and any other
later foreclosures is now only £l4B, so its old
troubles have practically all disappeared.
But this also means that there, will be very
little more to be won by way of surpluses
from sales. Nineteen years ago, just after
the co. had its clean-up, the book value of
securities on its hands amounted to no less
than £72,305, and that did not leave much
funds available with which to do business
with new customers. But as the old pro-
perties were unloaded the business was
gradually built up again, and the manage-
ment now has a larger volume of advances
than at any time since the big trouble. Like
most other building societies this one
restricted its loan business during the war
years, but has since regained confidence and
now has a couple of thousand more out than
it had six years ago. But with the assist-
ance of the realisations and surpluses there-
from mentioned above, and with the help of
profits in excess of dividend requirements,
the larger volume of business is being handled
with aid of considerably less outside
money than formerly, while its cash assets
are over £6OOO larger. Here is a comparison
going back to just after the reconstruction:
July,’ol. July,’l4. Jan.,’2o. Julv,'2o.
Liabilities . . £37,015 £45,823 £34,191 £33,369
Advances . . 19,998 121,991 118,966 124,155
Foreclosures .. 72,305 10,5Y6 3,711 148
Cash, etc. . . 2,778 165 6,254 6,241
Of the liabilities £29,558 represents deposits,
and to protect these there were at the bal-
ance net assets of £126,733, or over £4 6s.
of advances, etc., to cover each £1 of deposi-
tors’ money. The management evidently
decided that the 11 p.c. div. which it has
been paying lately was liable to be misun-
derstood by people unacquainted with its
past troubles. Anyhow, paid capital has
been increased from £57,357 to £50,212 by a
transfer of reserves, and the div. rate has
been lowered to S p.c., which distributes only
£53 more of profit.
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
Profit
Trading on To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911.. £4819 £329 34p.c.= £3381 £1767 £23,863
1912.. 4954 1267 5 „ „ 4830 1391 25,254
1913.. 5733 2422 64 „ „ 6279 1876 27,130
1914.. 6944 7469 7 ~ „ 6762 7651 34,781
1915.. 8103 116 84 „ „ 8211 8 34,789
1916.. 8207 9 8i„ „ 8211 5 34,794
1917.. 8865 9 ~ „ 8694 171 34,965
1918.. 8694 288 9 ~ ~ 8694 238 35,203
1919.. 8897 9 ~ ~ 8694 203 35,406
1920.. 9346 172 9J „ „ 9177 341 35,747
A very old concern this; but its record prior
to 1910 should now only be referred to in
whispers for the benefit of plungers who
have forgotten what is likely to happen to
land values subsequent to a boom. The
Modern had a great time during the ’eighties
—then spent 20 years in the hands of its
creditors. Ten years ago the directors shook
off the old incubus and, after consulting
shareholders, decided to set out afresh. Its
belongings were reviewed with a Critical eye
and capital written down. The pruning had,
however, been a little too severe, for values
so improved that on realisation old assets
have brought in £12,000-odd more than the
management anticipated. This surplus has
proved very handy, for it has provided so
much more funds for investment to help
dividends. During the past year the book
value of foreclosures was reduced a further
£143, realisations bringing in £172 in excess
of book value. But little more can be ex-
pected from this source; there remains only
£2500 of house property and £1033 of vacant
land unsold, and some of this perhaps is not
old stuff.
For a time after the co. started life afresh
the dividend was kept low; but during the
past six years it has been lifted so that
only £3SI of profit apart from surpluses
from realisations has stayed in the business.
This shows how the balance-sheet figures
have moved since the close of the first year
after the Modern was rejuvenated:—
1911. 1914. 1919. -1920.
Liabilities. . . . £29,588 £44,098 £41,616 £46,900
Balances owing .. 85,511 124,516 121,941 126,899
Freehold house pro-
perty . . .. 8,000 2,500 2,500 2,500
Vacant land .. 8,542 1,299 1.176 1,033
Premises . . . . 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Other assets .. 1,384 550 2,840 4,133
In 1911 the co.’s liabilities were made up
of £25,175 due on mortgage and £4414 owing
to depositors, etc. As the management
sought new clients it got in more deposits,
and by 3914 had about £17,000 of outside
money. When the war swung the world from
the normal the directors decided to proceed
cautiously, with the result that in 1919 the
co. was handling less business than live years
previously. But during the past 12 months
the management has regained confidence and
has increased deposits to £21,402 and now
shows record advances. Business has been
so easy to write that no doubt the Modern
could have increased its mortgages even fur-
ther ; but once bitten is enough. Still, though
heavy loan spendings have created a bubble
prosperity, the position is vastly different
from what it was whhn this co. struck
trouble in the early ’nineties. Then it had a
paid capital of £174,336 and was having
a gay time with £053,061 of mostly-English
deposits. At the latest balance its own funds
totalled £137,005, and it owed only £40,900,
£25,000 of which represented a mortgage
on its own freehold premises, written down
from £78,000 to £50,000 10 years ago. Apart
from this mortgage, at July 31 the Modern
held £21,054 of tjie public’s money, and on the
other side showed £4132 of liqilid assets,
with advances and premises valued in the
books at £155.187 net. Put another way.
there were net assets with a book value of
over £8 17s. to meet every £1 of depositors’
money not covered by liquid assets. The
co.’s paid capital prior to the reconstruction
was £193,210, but the 38,642 £5 shares were
written down to £2 10s. After payment of
the latest div. there were net assets with
a book value of £3 Ss. 6d. per share.
* * * *
Since the Gold Producers’ Association was
permitted to sell the yellow metal in the
world’s markets it has distributed £1,365,500
of premium. The final distribution for the
half-year to June 30 amounted to £300,858.
73 p.c, of which went to Westralian pro-
ducers. The Association is at present in-
volved in argument with the Federal Taxa-
tion Commissioner, who wants to take a bite
out of the distributions to members. There
isn’t much that a Federal Taxation Com-
missioner wouldn’t try to take a bite out of.
The reconstructed Mammoth Molybdenits
(N.S.W.) has decided that it hasn’t a ghost
of a chance with its low-grade deposits at
anything like present market prices. So all
operations have been suspended indefinitely.


aaxiNfi
""ISShI
ftpHii
iilriiiittiiiiiHUMuiaainiiii
Rua^
yis
l
£
i
1
ir-X:"-
&
t
I
•4;>w*-
U-«>h
sE
&
fig.
H
:>•<
LF
orC
4TEO
4§fL s'f^s
SXXXisX
se*
1
l/'/'
fS-'-i
£Sst Ml
's*r.
H
SV
N
•>V
« h’t,
m
s*-/,
111
\ "X,
\
;-v'*c„
r A \' - %X>
X
ftqMSe;
:
-V-_ *~s
HX<<!
%
H,
'x
;
X
:
4=
T
s?
=SS->^
?5r
y .V,W.
Bto4£s
l!X
£
=^s
sift
~SS:
§
2S
•**^ss
SiSS
2W
WS2S
'J&
li
x-4>
•>*?
:s?Jnii
~T
If
&
rv*
Ot
52SS&C’
S \r^/
S\
i
ag
Ife* : .„>]>?
wm. - •-.. iss
v- .■ • ----m.
liiiiw-
-1
y
SK:
ev
>i!>
V 'tii^
1
31
ig§»f
•r'K
m
i^l*3
W
»»r;
iS§
*r?
m
*ss
O'
*zn
!jpl.
o.^
Vsw
✓
<s>
ga
%
4\n
TASMANI
The Tread
of a Tyre
denotes its use. Every road is ridable in comfort with United States Nobby
Tread Tyres. Motor where you will city street, back block track, sandy
reach —‘NOBBIES’ will get you there.
Notice the nobs. Each is set at an irregular angle—scientifically determined.
These nobs ‘feel’ the road. They hold it, to the point of preventing both side
and back slipping. They give traction and safety.
Just the tyre for the hard-worked car.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES AND
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
W. A. SORRELL, Sydney.
HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD.,
Brisbane.
BURGESS BROS., LTD., Hobart.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Launceston.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), LTD., Perth


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
tariff
15/
Day
per
8/6
Bed
Breakfast
Ke
bwanston 5h
Melbourne i
Proprietor
OfiS
Hotel
4fc
King George IV
llliw .31 WHISKY
7r
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Dr. Nil”: “L. and T.’s” talk about fight-
ing dogs (B. 9/9/’2O) makes me tell you of my
Buzzule, one of Tulley’s prize sable collies, and
poisoned long ago, poor chap! He was just like
that. From a pup you couldn't' knock him up
or knock him out. He’d run till he dropped or
PUTTING HIM RIGHT.
COUNTRY ONE: “’Ad er puncher. Mister?”
CITY ONE ( almost irritated ): “No—merely
changing the air; the other lot was
worn out!”
swim til] he drowned, but he’d never give in. Also
he would never fight—up till a certain dav. Mon-
grel poodles and mangy tykes of all shapes and
sizes would chase him into the nearest kerosene-tin,
or if they caught him would use him for a mop while
he shrieked “Kamerad!” as good as any German.
But one day—ah, one day! Bill Wibley’s composite
treak started hunting him as usual and chased him
right up into a corner of my garden. There was
no hole in the fence and no handy kerosene-tin, so
the mopping began. But all of a sudden, while I
looked on, something went wrong with the pro-
gramme. I don’t know whether Buzzie also dis-
covered the fore-paw hold, but it was Bill’s dog that
started yelping and mine that did the worrying.
Buzzie ended by chewing the other thing up and
spiting him out. Next day he “set” McGurgan’s
cattle-dog and made a draw of it, and the con-
test was continued every morning at 11 o’clock for
months. Although he was only a little chap he
ad every other dog in the town paralytic inside
of a week. He would never allow me to go out
without him for fear some dog might bite me, and
the only thing we used to quarrel about was that
he would chase sheep. You see, he was a thorough-
bred collie and knew that he had to do something
with sheep, but had never been taught what.
“Blanc”: Does any Abo. know a better
gripper than the Cobar “wild orange”? I saw a
hawk swoop after a pigeon near the Cobar mine
dam. The pigeon made for the nearest shrub—an
isolated “wild orange”—with the hawk close behind.
Neither bird came out, for the Cobar “wild orange”
has teeth on every twig, like a shark’s, pointing
inwards. I found the birds dead within a foot of
each other.
* * * *
“W.H.E.”: “Jimsey” (B. 26/8/’2O) says
the dingo will not inter-breed with any other animal,
not even with the domesticated hound. Nonsense!
Every sheepman in dingo-infected country knows
that his most dangerous pest is the half-caste dingo.
I was one of the pioneer settlers on the - Richmond
River, and took with me from Sydney a collie bitch
probably the only domesticated lady-hound there-
abouts. It wasn’t long before the dingoes prevailed
upon her to go for moonlight walks, and from
birth it was impossible to make any mistake about
the subsequent hybrid litter. I was fool enough
to spare the lives of the mongrels that in a few
months became the scourge of the district. To save
even 12-months-old poddies from their depredations
I was compelled to house them at night in my
humpy. There’s no dog more savage than the hybrid
dingo, and “Jimsey” should know it if he wants
to raise sheep or cattle near their preserves.
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : “Te W.” (B. 26/S/’2O) is
wrong when he states that black swans of the same
brood will not breed. About 30 years ago an
uncle of mine settled on the Upper Hawkesbury
and put a pair of black swans on a small lagoon
on his land. These multiplied very rapidly, and
although he kept them there for over 10 years there
was no sign of that deterioration of the species
which “Te W.” talks about.
* * * *
“Tix”: “ji msey ’ - says (g 26/8/’2O) that
the dingo will not inter-breed with even the domesti-
cated hound. How, then, does he account for the
thousands of mongrels that roam the S.-W. corner
of Queensland and the extreme N.-W. corner of N. S.
Wales ? They are all colors, sizes and types, show-
ing unmistakable dingo characteristics. In the
Tibooburra district the P.P. Board paid for over
1700 scalps last year, and very many showed unmis-
takable evidence of a mixed marriage. In this
country, unless Ringer or Rover or any other domes-
ticated male canine is closely watched during June
and July, he “goes bush,” to return on his own
account after a couple of months as poor as twine.
Does “Jimsey” think he has been to a Y.M.C.A.
conference ?
* * » *
“Billy T.” : After all these years the Aus-
tralian drover has not made up his mind which is
the best breed of dog to put after cattle, and the
shepherd has not decided how to cross his tykes to
get the most effective ani-
mal for persuading sheep.
The best cattle-dog I ever
saw was a freak, with no
discoverable pedigree, and
designed for nothing'. He
was long-haired, and had
a head like a Russian re-
triever, with silly, short
legs that made him ineffec-
tive in a sprint; but he
knew all about cattle. His
instinct was mere reliable
than human knowledge.
The drover who owned him
said he had limped into
camp one day t ear Beech-
worth, and after being
doctored had attached him-
self to the firm. To begin
with he did not know a
bullock from a three-railed
gate, but within a month
he was working the mob
like a dog that had been
at it from puppyhood, and
in six months, according
to the fluently-sworn testi-
, , mony of his owner, he
had no living equal on earth.
* *
* *
“Dinkum Oil”: Among the buckjump
riders of Australasia Jim Bullock won competitions
in Melbourne against all comers. Billy Waite and
Billy Henderson have been the best of late years
Dempsey of Narrandera won against all comers a
couple of months ago. Dick Skuthorp was always
regarded as among the best. Dempsey’s father was
one of the old-time champions. Frank Bullock, now
riding with great success in England, is the son
of the above-mentioned Jim Bullock, who for a
number of years was horse-breaker for the Victorian
mounted police. Combo George and Professor
Kemp (sister May was Australasia’s champion female
buckjump rider) were amongst the champion stick-
ing-plasters; and Snowy Baldwin is in Australia’s
first five.
■ tt . r . * 99 * * *
“’Vista”: I have watched the “soldiers” of
a white-ant community guard an opening against
the attacks of other ants. I cut the top off a sft.
antheap in Northern Queensland, and awaited results.
Mithin 10 minutes the breach was discovered and
in the hands of the repair gang. The hole was sur-
rounded by a crowd of “soldiers,” which, with the
lower portion of their bodies in the hole, faced out-
wards, with nippers open ready to welcome all-
comers The builders got to work and blocked up
the hole behind the guard, leaving them to their
fate, which happened along shortly afterwards in
the form of a green lizard looking for a free-lunch
counter,
Bird Lover” : Little King Island, in Bass
Strait, can boast of another gay bird besides the
pheasant, viz., the crested Californian quail. This
was introduced as a gift to the island by Arthur
J. Staughton, of Western District, Victoria. The
birds, about 20 in number, were released at Booby-
alla homestead, a few miles- from Currie, and for a
time were fed on the melilot seed, to which they took
THE REPOSITORY.
BILL (disgustedly): “There goes our blooming rum issue!”
a great fancy. They can now be seen all over the
island, for, like the pheasant, they are very prolific
breeders. The pheasant, by the way, is becoming
quite a rogue in our (King Island) gardens and
potato crops, and is a demon on clover seeds when
sown on the burnt ground. Writer liberated the
quail, and has watched their progress. Whilst they
like the undulating grasslands of the western side,
they are well established throughout the timber
belt which runs through the centre of the island
By the way, we used to see the Gang Gang parrot,’
but for a few years past it has been missing, and
we don’t know why.
* * * *
“Wessel” : Sanctuaries for native animals,
birds and plants have been set aside in various parts
of Australia, and Dr. A. F. E. Woolaston wants
the Commonwealth to carry on the good work by
hgving sanctuaries or reserves for primitive peoples,
there are abo. reserves, of course, in the Northern
Territory and elsewhere, but these hardly fill the
■.ill* a f a bos. are apt to be exposed to “civilis-
mg” influences. In the case of Papua Woolaston
urges that the Commonwealth should set aside
a really large area—there is plenty of room
which “no traders, no missionaries, no ex-
ploiters, not even Government police themselves ”
should be allowed to enter. He reckons that ’it
would be quite possible to let the mountain tribes
go on in their valleys untouched by outside influ-
ences. Being a whole-hogger, he would not have
any interference even to prevent inter-tribal fighting
cannibalism, head-hunting and similar local diver-
sions, and quotes the fate of the Tasmanian abos.
and the present condition of the abos. of Australia as
a sufficient warning of the effects of official and
other “civilisation/*
* * * *
“Paul C.”: I cannot tell “De La Poer”
(B. 26/8/’2O) how- long a turtle will live after
being killed; but I know this. The kidlets attend-
ing a bark emporium of learning over which I was
king brought me a large turtle one morning. I
bade the butcher of the school decapitate the beast,
as I intended to put it on an ants’- nest in order
to get the shell. That evening, six hours after the
executioner had severed the head from the body, 1
went to get the turtle. Its four feet were thrust out
of the shell like the hands of beggars asking for
baksheesh. I lifted him up and got the latest thing
in frights when he pulled all four legs in like
lightning.
* * * *
“Bareena”: “Leo Lear” (B. 26/8/’2O)
asks if anyone has been able to keep a native-bear
in captivity for six months. I have had one for
nearly six years. He lives 18 miles from Melbourne,
and is still doing the Johnny Walker act. His only
tucker is the tips of young blue-gum saplings. No
water. Feeding from a menu foreign to their nature
is the cause of their early demise in most cases.
“Ino”: “Werrimee” (B. 26/8/’2O) says
black snakes can’t kill themselves by biting. A
brown snake got fast in trying to crawl
between two slabs, and we saw him bite
himself. We liberated him by prising the
slabs apart. He was then on hard, smooth
ground, but could not travel more than a few yards
in a minute. We kept him there with a long
stick, and, although he did not seem the least
injured, in 10 minutes he ceased to crawl, and in
20 minutes was dead.
Silas Snell”: Williams lived on the slope
of Little Mt. Long, and was good friends with Craig
till they united to finance and feed a prospecting
party seeking a reef of fabulous value supposed to
exist along the range. Williams was a common,
carnal-minded man; Craig was a God-fearing gentle-
man who did not hold Providence in such dread
as to abstain from illegitimate gain when the
chance came his way. It was a tradition of the
district that three thunderbolts had fallen on Little
Mt. Long, one to the north of Williams’s house, one
to the east and one to the west, all within 300
yards of the homestead. Following on their dis-
agreement regarding their respective liabilities in
connection with the prospecting party, the couple
had a very noisy and eloquent row in front of
Craig’s store in the township, and Craig had the
last word, as became a local preacher of some repute.
“There’s a fearful great thunderbolt fallen to the
north of your godless home, Williams,” said he.
There s one fallen to the east, and one to the
west. Mark me, man, the Lord will get you yet!”
* * * *
> “Mirza”: Judging by my cobber Claude’s
case, scientists get a very rough spin in Australia.
He was the first neurologist to sew the vocal-cord
nerves ol a cat on to its sciatic nerves, with the
result that every time the animal tried to emit
amorous lyrics, its limbs made frantic movements
that ultimately hurled it from the tiles. He got
five years for adapting that process to an alleged
soprano across the street. The charge was “per-
forming an illegal operation.” When he came out
he set to work on a blood-sweating profiteer, whom
he converted into a beer-sweater. Recently he was
successful in making the external secretion an inter-
nal one; so that now, whenever the victim walks
THE MAN WHO BEAT DONALDSON.
P.M.: “How far away were you when the
first shot was fired?”
JACKY: “ ’Bout two yard, Boss.”
T .M.: And then, I think, a second shot was
fired. How far were you away then?”
JACKY ( enthusiastically ): “ ’Bout two plurry
mile, Boss!”
100 yards, Nature pumps beer into his system. To-
day the inevitable happened, and Claude was pinched
by the Warwick police on the ground that he wife
in possession of an illicit still. Just his luck, and
mine—he’d promised to do me next!
(Continued on page 26 J
TO A SPARROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long years ago (it wasn’t in Madrid)
When I was just an unimportant kid,
I used to wake like clockwork with the dawn
To hear the spoggies magging on the lawn,
And, crouching like a dingo on the bed
To view my bag, would witness this instead:
Right at the very entrance of each trap
Two lightweights in a fair old ding-dong scrap.
It was a spoggy first that gave me pluck
To grapple with misfortune in Life’s ruck,
To keep my end up when the stalls and gods
Were shouting for my rival any odds;
And his the form, whenever I was ill.
Would come and perch upon the window-sill
To wake iny prison with his rasping cry—
“ The bonzer sun still swaggers in the sky.”
Belted at school, and oft a punching ball
For working off a livery teacher’s gall,
It was a spoggy taught me all the time
To chirp the crude but optimistic rhyme ;
To set my jaw, when nearly down and out.
And battle through the fierce, unequal bout;
So should I bring my rebel infant soul
Bruised but triumphant to the final goal.
I never had a longing as a boy
To climb the dreary Calvin spoor to joy ;
No taste for droning psalms or hoarding oof,
Two certain passports to the holy roof.
Though in the main I proved a luckless bard,
My only mates the spoggies in the yard,
This crumb of comfort cheered me through it all:
Lo, God it is who heeds the spoggies’ fall!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
W. MONRO ANDERSON.


m
mmMwmmm
•H
1
swM 5
Miss STEWART CUSTOMBUILT.
(Posed by Miss Marilynn Miller.)
So say four million Motor-car Owners throughout
the world. They know, because they have tested
it! They will tell you that if
your car is to be operated with
the greatest efficiency and
economy, it must have a
MBs)
r" A
MILES H R HOUR
SUBS asai
Speedometer
It enables you to check up mileage obtained from petrol, oil, tyres, etc. You can keep an accurate mileage
record of each trip. An invaluable aid in reducing motoring expenses. Operates on the famous magnetic
principle.
Stewart Speedometers are made in various sizes and types for installing either on the dash or the
instrument boards of your car.
STEWART SPEEDOMETERS, WARNING SIGNALS (either hand-operated
or motor-driven), VACUUM TANKS, SEARCHLIGHTS, etc., ARE MADE
BY THE LARGEST ANO OLDEST ACCESSORY BUILDERS IN THE
WORLD! YOU CAN DEPEND UPON THEM!
For sale by leading retail accessories’ distributors throughout Australia. Dealers can secure prompt
shipment from any wholesale accessories’ distributors, or direct from the following Interstate distributors:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney. Arthur Christian, Hay Street,
Perth. Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Swanston Street, Melbourne. Martin Wilson
Bros., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
FOR THE ARTISTIC HOME
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
L\ ■
Mi
Ss, - •
a
•VJ
frmM
M
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO has a perfect touch
that puts it in a class by itself, and in harmony with
pure beauty of tone is its artistic case design. Try it
yourself and you will at once be charmed with the
delicacy and velvety character of its touch. It is so
human-like that it may be mistaken for hand playing
by a perfect artist. The durability of the “BEHNING”
has often been proved, and it is impervious to climatic
conditions and variations.
Write for Illustrated
Catalogue and Price
List, showing full par-
ticulars of our Easy
Payment System.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Why not call and let us
demonstrate this mag-
nificent Player Piano to
you? We can promise
you an exceptional
musical treat.


Take CLEMENTS TONIC for Your Nerves and Blood
Men In all ranks of life and professions praise Clements Tonic. Solicitors, clergymen, journalists, editors and business men and
women recommend it. It keeps the blood pure, the heart sound, the nerves strong and the stomach healthy. Send for it if you
have lojss of sleep, sick headache or indigestion.
The medicine that saves and lengthens life, brings back health long despaired of, restores vigor and mental energy, so that those
suffering enjoy life; surely this is medicine for the people who are sickly, weak-nerved, undermined in health, or who cannot
get strong after long illness or fever.
THEY SHOULD SEND FOR IT WITHOUT DELAY.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
GET IT TO-DAY AND HEALTH AT THE SAME TIME.
It Does Good Because It Is Good. It is Health's Twin-Brother.
Clements Tonic. Ltd.. Rozelle. N.S.W.
“Hawkesbury”: The fly in the ointment
of pise building is the white ant. In this district
many nice cottages are built of mud and stones;
they are cheap, comfortable, easy to build. The
mud appears to set, hard as rock; but both ter-
mites and mice excavate it. Where you can get
sand and gravel, cinders or stones, the best and
cheapest cottage-walls are cement-concrete poured
in a mould of boards 44in, wide. The boards are
raised for every course. The cement content may
be as low as one in 18. No floors should be
cemented: they cripple the missus. Any man with
commonsense and a spirit-level can do the job. In
this district there is a house of the kind built by
an old storekeeper; and another by two boys just
from school.
* * * *
It happened at Broome (W.A.).
Six of us went fishing in a small boat, the intention
being to scatter burley, and when the fish got busy
to explode dynamite among them. One of the party
was a German and knew all about everything, dyna-
mite included. We anchored about a mile from the
shore and cast our burley upon the waters. The
dynamite fiend lit the fuse, but the “spit” was
something, apparently, that he did not anticipate;
in his fright he dropped the charge and it rolled
under some boards in the bottom of the boat, giving
off volumes of smoke. The situation was instantly
serious and there seemed only one thing to do. Five
of us did it. It was a beautiful start, though I
was probably leading by half a length. The anar-
chist meanwhile had succeeded in ripping up the
board and, having recovered his bomb, the dear
fellow did what a well-trained German might have
been expected to do —he carried out the programme
and threw it over the side among us. We got back
into the boat in the shortest time on record and
went home.
* * * *
“Jim C.”: Fainting is more common among
Papuan natives than among any other people of my
experience, and their method of bringing a man
round is drastic. If water thrown in his face has
no immediate effect a piece of burning wood from
the fire is placed against the big toe of the left
foot. For some reason that I have never managed
to get at, the fire-brand is never applied to the big
toe of the right foot. In a few seconds after the
stick is used the man’s leg muscles begin to con-
tract, and as a rule he quickly recovers his senses.
"WANTED, GENTLEMAN’S LEFT-OFF
CLOTHING.”
“Ragar”: I’m putting my money on the
tiger-ant as being the hardest biter. I have sampled
bulldogs, jumpers and most of the others, but the
tiger has them all looking like frogs when it comes
to business. I first met him inland in Papua,
and he also resides in some of the smaller and
uninhabited islands of the Pacific. I don’t know
his proper title, though he deserves the one we gave
him—partly on account of his yellow stripes, partly
for his chawing powers. He took a mouthful clean
out of my hand when we were introduced.
I ‘FY7”: “Jimsey” (B. 26/8/’2O) repeats
his futile assertion that a dingo bitch borrows a
half-grown pup to mind -her own litter, and he says
every bushman knows that this is true. Well, here’s
one that scoffs at the notion. More than any other
animal, almost—and that is saying a lot —Mrs.
Dog prefers strict privacy for her lying-in and nur-
sery. No creche or public maternity hospital for
her! Jimsey ’ asks if I have ever seen a dingo.
Several—during over 20 years as a station-hand
THE ANATOMY CLASS.
TEACHER: “Now can any hoy tell me what the spinal column is?”
TOMMY: “Please, mum, it’s what my head sits on one end and I sit on the other.”
on Barcoo and Balonne River stations, where the
creature is not infrequent. Also I am aware that
the dingo hunts in packs without fighting, like
wolves and the shipping combine, though that has
nothing to do with a bitch’s lying-in. Further, let
me deny “J.’s” assertion that young dingo pups
are “friendly little cusses.” Like young wild duck,
curlews, or almost any young animal, they are fur-
tive or afraid of man from the first second they
breathe the outer air. My statement that a dingo
litter of various shapes and sizes was probably due
to crossed ancestors is not ridiculous. It is an
illustration of the law of telegony, familiar to any-
one with experience of breeding animals or men.
Quite recently a Queensland squatteress sued the
Queensland Government for heavy damages because
her pure-bred Durhams had been destroyed for herd-
type purposes by the access of Hereford bulls belong-
ing to the defendants. Lastly, “Jimsey’s” statement
that the dingo will not interbreed with the domes-
ticated dog stamps him .as an ignoramus whose
dog-knowledge doesn’t go beyond the china bow-wows
on his maiden aunt’s mantelpiece. The vast major-
ity of the wild dogs in Australia to-day are cross-
bred dingo-sheep-cattle dog, and the strain has
acquired an amount of cunning and intelligence beside
which the pure-bred dingo is almost as big a mug
as “Jimsey.”
“Doxite”: Now that the protection has
been removed from Sambur deer in South Gipps-
land, venison is becoming a regular item on cocky’s
menu. But it takes half a dozen men armed with
rifles and aided by 10 dogs to get deer in the scrub
country. Likely patches are surrounded, and the
dogs sent in, the deer, if present, receiving a fusil-
lade on departure. And then you must get to a
vital spot to drop a deer in his tracks: through
the kidneys, for instance. Deer, even when fatally
wounded, will run two or three miles, and without
the aid of dogs would never be retrieved. They
invariably make for the nearest water, whether a
river or the open sea, wherein to fight their forlorn
hope, and their swan song resembles the melody of
a distressed pig. Hind- and fawn-meat is delicious,
but a cut from an aged stag is pretty rough on
false teeth. Stag antlers are generally sold to
adorn the hall of the local pub, and the hides are
used for hearth-rugs—they are said to be unsuitable
for leather.
“F.H.R.”: I will swear to this. I woke
up one Saturday night having dreamed I was bitten
by a half-grown black snake. The dream was so
realistic that I sat up in bed and rubbed the leg,
feeling an awful pain. My wife woke also, but I
went to sleep again, telling her nothing of my
dream. To my astonishment at the breakfast table
on Sunday morning she said: “I had an awful fight
last night with a little black snake —I had quite a
job to get away from it.” Then, of course, I told
her why I had sat up in bed. That afternoon I
carried some wire up my hill to mend a fence. My
wife was with me. As we were coming home, she
a little below me, she stopped dead. A yard in
front of her was the half-grown blank crawler of
our dreams. I dropped the wire, grabbed the first
stick I could get—a dead one—hit at the snake,
and the stick broke into fragments. Then ensued
the busiest two minutes of my life, while my wife
—perhaps for her own good—stood as still as a
stone, too unnerved to move. I killed the coil of
venom with a piece of wood not more than 18
inches long.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: For every Australian who ever
heard of the colored cliffs along the Finke River
in Centralia hundreds have read about the “painted
rocks” of the Colorado; yet the U.S.A. natural art
gallery is no finer than own own. For miles the
Mount Engoordina cliffs rise sheer from the river-
bed to a height of 700 or 800 feet. The ochres and
chalks which make up a good part of the cliffs are
every possible shade of red, grey, white and yellow,
from blood-red to pure white. Other things in
Central Australia waiting for an artist bold enough
to put them on canvas are the crimson and scarlet
sandhills on the road from Oodnadatta to Alice
Springs and the blood-red sandstone monoliths of
the Kirchauff Range.
“O. Ren”: Peter lives at the end of
our town, his only companions being a brindle cow
and occasionally the D.T.’s. The cow is to Peter
what the notorious little lamb was to Mary: she
follows him everywhere he goes, unless the gate
happens to slam in her face. When Peter is linger-
ing late at the Come Again, the old cow can gen-
erally be seen outside slowly tolling the bell that
hangs around her neck. The other day I was pass-
ing their habitation. Peter was stretched out on
a patch of grass alongside the house, evidently en-
gaged in a laudable attempt to sleep it off.' Near
him Daisy was grazing, steadily working up to the
patch whereon Peter was lying. As I lingered she
reached it, and I could see by the look in her eye
that she was puzzling out the course to be adopted
in moving her master. She soon solved the pro-
blem. Lowering her head, she very gently pushed
him until he rolled over; and the operation was
repeated several times before I left.
T.E.D. ’: Can any Aboriginaliterate pro-
duce a cat as old as our Croppie? He was born in
Borroloola, N.T. (where the crows fly backwards),
in 1895, and is still going strong; he can beat
any other cat here (Brunette Downs) in a fight.
He is still big; but, of course, after all these years
in the dreadful North, not the cat he used to be.
Still, beyond being deaf, crop-eared, splay-footed
and with a head like a lion’s, there is nothing
wrong with him. He was brought to this station
21 years ago.
* * * *
“Palma”: Here’s one for Conan Doyle.
Toma, a Buka-boy attendant at the Native Hospital
in Rabaul, was greatly attached to his brother
Katan, who was a sergeant in the Native Police at
Eitape, well over 700 miles away. Noticing Toma
looking upset and worried one morning, I asked
him whaffor. “Somet’ing belong no good come up
along brodder belong me,” was the reply, and no
assurance that his brother at Eitape was bound to
be all right cheered him. Later, w'lien the boat
from the out-station arrived, we learned that Katan
was dead, having been taken by a shark while swim-
ming in the surf, and fuller inquiries revealed that
the day of the accident was the day on which Toma
had Iris premonition. Such incidents are by no
means rare in New Guinea.
* * * »
“Pick”: Holt’s Flat, the site of one of
the stations on the uncompleted Niminitabel-Bombala
railway (N.S.W.), commemorates George Holt, an early
Monaro identity. In those days, when the cattle-
stations thereabout had no fences, he put up a
performance that ever furnishes a ready theme for
camp-fire yarn and argument and still mystifies
the horsebreakers of the region. Among the un-
tamed mobs of Mt. Cooper horses that herded op
the Flat was an unbroken colt which Holt coveted.
Unaided and afoot, he carried his tackling afield by
night, caught the wild-’un by some stratagem never
explained, and rode him through Cooma, 40 miles
away, before daylight. Holt was man enough, too,
when skies were brighter for him, to ride the same
prad back to Mt. Cooper and pay for him.
* * * *
“R. S. Squire”: On a water-hunting ex-
pedition for stock in drought-time in Central Queens-
land, I was amazed to notice a gohanna calmly swal-
lowing a live green whip-snake about 2ft. 6in. long.
The whole operation took about 15 minutes. The
go., being well employed, did not notice me, and
after he had finished I dispatched him with a stick
and returned to the camp for lunch. This took,
with a rest, about an hour. I then went to move
the lizard, and found the snake’s head protruding
about one inch. When I got closer to him lie
wriggled right out, and barring a few scratches
seemed little the worse for his experience. Jonah
travelled fairly quickly after releasing himself,
but I was- able to reach him and end his existence
also.
* * * «
“Lambo”: Whilst out for an airing with
’Tilda I dropped into the Wombat Inn, seven miles
out of Tincanberra, for a morsel. A mystery
the menu tickled my palate, and locating the
poisoner near the kitchen—he happened to be a
Froggy—l put the hard word on him, with this
result: “Oui, saire. I shoot ze ’are, and ’e come
ze gutsaire. Zen I put ’im troo ze mincaire, wis
bread and oniong; zen I frahee ’im in battaire. Eez
it not bonzaire?” It was.
* * * *
“Squirrel”: The squirrel which is now not
uncommon about Malvern and other Melbourne
suburbs doesn’t put all his eggs in one basket here,
whatever he does in the Northern Hemisphere. He
has a great habit of hiding acorns for winter tucker
in the suburbanite’s lawn, but mostly he puts only
one acorn in each hole and has them scattered about
all over the grass patch.
GREAT EXPECTATIONS.
THE ANGEL CHILD : “Mum, did you hear the
ladder come tumbling down a few
minutes ago?"
MOTHER : “No, dear. I hope your dad didn’t
fall.”
THE A.C.: “Not yet, mum — he’s still cling-
ing to the guttering.”
TRAMP’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m greater than prince or king!
I’m a tramp who dreams. 1
I walk in the sun and sing;
Naked I bathe in streams.
With clouds I play on a boundless lawn,
In star-sown fields I sleep;
I kiss the rosy cheek of dawn.
1 roam where the four winds sweep.
I shout as I take the storm’s rough hand,
I laugh with the trees
And moan with the shingle and sand
Torn by the wintry seas.
I stand with the hill my brother,
I dance with my sister the moon,
And love as the sun my mother
Loves in the blaze of noon.
MAORILAND.
W. VILLIAMS.


BACK AGAIN!
WINFRED
Cigarettes.
The World’s Favorite.
GOLD TIPPED.
lO for 9d.
—a—
SHIPMENTS JUST LANDED.
Obtainable Everywhere.


TKc
Purest
Spirit
iatke
'XbrkL
Fife's schnap? 6
| .i.iiiiiriiii.iniinm I iumu mini I H n 111 M mi I nmn in n I n in ■■■■ill M mi........
‘t)l
dnoua
n oij .
l‘A
MS
■M
\
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne&Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
Joseph Conrad’s World of Dreams
When “Almayer’s Folly” appeared in
1895 Conrad was 38 years of age, so the
inference is fair that the slightly self-con-
scious “beauty” of the matter was not a
quality for which youth alone was respon-
sible. The words “self-conscious beauty” are
not mine; they were in every critique of
“this most unusual romance,” together with
a lot of other words all meaning the same
thing. Starting under these handicaps, the
book nevertheless made a success ; a quarter
of a century old, it still manages a discreet
reserved sale in reprints. The same is true
of “Lord Jim” and “The Nigger of the Nar-
cissus” ; "Chance,” “Victory and the books
of short stories are not yet at the reprint
age. Conrad gets his “self-conscious beauty”
in a tongue not native to him ; he is a Pole,
a master-mariner, late of the merchant ser-
vice, who for many years had spent his shore-
leave in England. All those critics of
“Almayer’s Folly” and of the later books
agree that his command of England’s
tongue is wonderful. And that is true,
native or foreign.
It is a strange genius. That is the right
word, I think; the matter reads like genius-
in action. Surely only genius is so compel-
ling in its instructive expression, so miracu-
lous. in its power of close-knit thought and
music. Only genius could hold up for the
reader pictures so magically true. One can
imagine the basis of the rapt concentration
producing that result. A man takes (or
doesn’t take, as the-case may be) the skip-
per’s watch ; and the rest of the day and
night afloat is his within the four walls of
his cabin. All his literary problems are
worked out to the point of statement by
himself in this solitude. He presents them
himself, examines and settles them himself
as the prisoner, the pleading counsel and
the Judge. No crow’ds of witnesses hurry-
ing through noisy streets distract his mind
from the main issue; nothing happens, save
meals and the skipper’s watch (if any), the
weighing and casting of the anchor. The
skipper is a fervent artist, with the years
of the high-seas’ solitude for his art, for
patience in his craft, down to the last elided
adjective, the last needless comma blue-
pencilled in serene loneliness. So each book
is a dream which Conrad made himself, in-
vented and fined down to its speech upon
paper—its accurate statement in the most
penetrating analysis—complete and logical,
exact and jnost beautiful.
And yet it is a curtain of words between
me and the world. It isn’t that Conrad
doesn’t get to me; he does. lam all admira-
tion and conviction while he is speaking.
But when he has ceased, the curtain rolls up,
and I see again the rough and tumble that
I know. Conrad has taken me into his cabin
and shown me some beautiful things he has
fashioned there. He has encompassed me
in a sublimity of artistic atmosphere to
which I have willingly and gladly surrendered
my reason—his dream is a better thing than
my reason. I follow him down the bright
waters of the Malay Archipelago, into the
perfumed fastnesses of the islands, into the
fresh and well-balanced minds of his people.
I see Lord Jim expiating his ancient sin in
a long service of his soul and mind to the
Islanders, and I hear in a dream the heavy
tragedy that befalls him in the end of the
gorgeous story. In “Chance” and “Almayer’s
Folly” I walk the decks of an actual ship,
the thoughts of the people on board an open
book to me. I watch from Conrad’s cabin
the swift, inevitable action of the several
minds feeling the impact of the events in
the yarns, knowing with an ultimate cer-
tainty that these minds will receive the
events in a noble dream, and will relate
them in a singing cadence unearthly in its
perfection of logic and music. In “The
Rescue,” this year’s book, the dream still
takes its appointed, enchanted way. The
man and the ship are there, and the wizard
pictures of li.is mind and the woman’s, the
wondrous color of the Malay waters and
the Malay people, the ceaseless overlapping
desires and motives of the distinguished,
definite characters. The tale presses on, rich
and tense, to a conclusion which is spiritual
gain to the hero and heroine, the flesh reced-
ing to an inactive place it cannot bold in
such personalities. And the curtain rolls
up, as it did upon the end of Lord Jim’s
exniation.
It is the fine art of miraculous romance.
Its reading and absorption are a jov inex-
pressible ; nowhere do the power and the
pulsating beauty fail. And nowhere does
the rough and tumble touch it once. The
maker of the dreams is a genius, but his
factory is too narrow a place. When you
have the bunk, the writing-desk and the cliest
for clothes in their places, there is no room
for the world. Those witnesses from the
noisy streets should break in loudly and
often. Some perfume and magic would go.
perhaps, but in their stead reality would
stiffen the dreams, the reality which is the
only safeguard of dreams.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Art of Knowing
The American has so many facilities for
self-improvement and self-education that in
this matter we cannot compare with him.
Whether he makes proper use of these
opportunities and whether he individually is
a. better-educated person are questions be-
longing elsewhere. Taking him all round. I
am inclined to the belief that in general
knowledge he would be badly beaten by the
Australian, but that as a specialist he stands
higher.
Many returned travellers who give us the
benefit of vivid impressions gained during a
brief glimpse of the life of the big Republic
would have us believe that the Yankee spends
his time in an everlasting chase of the dollar,
or else devotes his spare hours to the dis-
sipation of the silver disc in cabaret and
elsewhere. There is some truth, as usual, in
such wide-flung assertions. But there is a
saner life in the U.S. that the casual visitor
does not see. There is culture —the good
old type, not that invented by the Hun —and
a desire for culture and a literary and
artistic life such as cannot be met with here.
It seems as if we are just entering the
commercial stage through which the U.S. is
rapidly passing. We are becoming the avid
dollar-hunters. Riches have become a pass-
port to the seats of the mighty. Genius goes
down-at-heels by the plutocrat’s door and no-
body salutes him. His gifts are of little
account if they do not bring wealth. Apart
from the reading of novels —undertaken
almost entirely as a relief from ennui—we
are about as cultivated, from a literary and
artistic viewpoint, as the natives of a village
in the Congo. And the saddest part of it all
is that nobody seems aware of a deficiency,
we are so superbly self-satisfied.
When the American is too busy to study
—as often happens, it must be said —his
womenfolk atone for his lack of learning,
for they are always “taking up” something,
from domestic science to the philosophy of
ancient peoples. At their clubs they attend
lectures on art, religion, poetry; and it is
quite usual for a mere man to find his
stylish neighbor at dinner proficient in
several languages, cognisant of all the ’isms
of to-day, as well as an expert in jazzing, or
whatever the newest step happens to be. For
they are, over there, keen dancers; and in
spite of what I have said of their culture,
the fair partner, be her hair shaded or faded,
would probably prefer the man who would
dance with her after dinner to one who
would enliven the courses with wit and
repartee.' It is quite common to see the fat,
elderly man of affairs, with wilted collar and
empurpled visage, perspiringly propelling a
partner, often of generous dimensions, around
the room, while he sings to himself a saga,
“This is the way to keep young!” Yet when
Viviani visited Boston, where there is no
Italian settlement worth mentioning, the
papers proudly announced that, in address-
ing an audience of two thousand people in
his own tongue, he had the satisfaction of
knowing that every word was understood.
The before-the-w'ar cheap fares and quick
service to Europe were no doubt very largely
responsible for the proficiency in languages;
but apart from that, with all the free lectures
given in all the big and little cities every
night of the year, a certain amount of
knowledge is bound to be assimilated. Fur-
ther. all over the States, in all the towns, are
good libraries—millionaires have a way of
scattering them broadcast—and museums.
The great Public Library, the Astor-Lennox
Foundation, on Fifth Avenue, is itself a work
of art, with its stately marble front and its
supercilious lions—surely of British origin !
'—guarding the steps and looking out upon the
passing crowd afoot or afloat with a half-
mocking smile. This is, of course, New
York, g super-city; yet in San Francisco and
smaller towns the libraries are just as get-
at-able and satisfactory. And it is not one
main library, but a network of branches all
over the suburbs, with comfortable reading-
rooms and a children’s room—this last fitted
with its own tables and chairs; very low
tables, with little straight-backed chairs, for
the small fry ; slightly higher ones for those
more advanced in height or age, and so on;
all copied from the large reading-room, even
to the small green-shaded electric lamp be-
side each chair. It is amazing and amusing
to watch the infants gojng round the shelves
and earnestly making their choice.
Maybe we shall have the like some day,
although our millionaires are neither so
plentiful nor so public-spirited as those of
the United States. Such rich men as Aus-
tralia has have an irritating way of keeping
the wealth in the family.
MARJORIE QUINN.
Tell-tale Words
Word changes have a close connection with
national character, and as footnotes to his-
tory deserve a lot of attention. Thus the fact
that a word like “Hadrian” became “Adrian”
in later Roman days affords abundant proof
that the Roman himself was becoming men-
tally lazy. The harsh breathing of the
h wag too much for him, and he gradually
let it slide; but, for all his tired feeling, he
was honest' enough to write it as he came to
spell it. A good X-ray on English charac-
ter is the word “presently.” This was at
first used in the sense of “at once,” “in-
stantly” ; but it has come to mean “after a
while.” The clear indication is that the
Englishman between the time of the word’s
introduction and the time when the changed
meaning was recognised had been hastening
pretty slowly about his business; and the
period of such leisured speed is indicated by
the fact that Shakspeare uses it in both
senses. “Villain” is another word which
shows clearly the trend of opinion in the
first great commercial age when the Tudors
reigned over a rather dejected Merrie Eng-
land. Originally a “villain” was simply a
working man; and the fact that it has come
to mean “knave” is proof that work was
regarded as a sort of crime, differing little
in its moral aspect from housebreaking and
highway robbery. “Knave” itself empha-
sises the same truth; for a knave was
once merely a man-servant, though earlier
still it meant a son. The particular knave
who stole the tarts probably did so ip the
days of that earliest meaning, as the whole
affair, including the spanking of the delin-
quent, - was evidently a purely family matter.
A rather curious history attaches to the
word “spruce.” The adjective was first used
to describe a smart, jaunty and well-dressed
person and meant “Prussian” ; so we learn on
an authority which is beyond dispute what
the first Prussians were like in English eyes.
Milton makes a very curious use of it when
he applies the adjective to the Spring.
“Spruce and jocund” is the phrase; and the
mixture is unthinkable. Spring described
as coming in like a joyous Prussian makes us
very sure that either the Spring or the Prus-
sian must have changed a lot since the
middle of the seventeenth century. Pos-
sibly the explanation may be found in the
fact that the original meaning of “spruce”
had already been lost, and that Milton’s
scholarship did not help him to know the
origin of a word that had come through the
vernacular. The perfectly legal thing
called “escheat” is the father of both the
noun and verb “cheat,” which shows what
the ways of the law were thought of when
that popular word was born. A curious word
is “lumber.” When the German Lombards
or Longbeards got tired of murder, or ceased
to make much headway at it, they took to
pawnbroking. Others who were not Lom-
bards imitated the profitable game, and the
room where pledges were stored was the
Lombard room. From that it came to be
the lumber-room; and now lumber, Avhich
was once Lombard, is anything lumpy and
heavy and more or less useless. Lumbering
makes a good adjective—a lumbering fellow,
a lumbering sentence —and now we hav,e the
verb “to lumber,” which is used to describe
an arrest by the police. It seems a fair
thing that the name of the German horde
which tried to destroy the civilisation of the
northern half of the Italian peninsula should
be put to such uses.
C. O. M.
A Satchel of Books
Poems, by Nelld Tritton (Brisbane).
There is a good deal of promise in these
verses, but so far it is not much more than
promise. The lines have a certain freshness
from time to time, but the quality is not
maintained; and there are a great many
relapses into the commonplace. Still, the
authoress is very young and the road the
singer must travel is fairly steep. Here
aie two stanzas that do not achieve much
but bint at something better: —
Oh, come and dance and sing with me,
The clouds are gossamer,
I am lighter than an arrow
Which flies into the air,
And little shining water jewels
Are glistening in my hair.
The air is sweet like babies’ smiles,
So fresh and bright and pure;
But I—l am a butterfly
And cannot be demure.
Who would not deck her hair and sing
With wattle for a lure ?
Art in Australia. The latest number of a
publication which deserves its name is more
comprehensive than its predecessors. It
introduces readers to Lambert, Clewin Har-
court, Thea Proctor, Penleigh Boyd, J. F.
Paterson and half a dozen other artists,
describes their work, and reproduces some
of the most characteristic of it in color.
Lambert is handled by that sound critic
Lionel Lindsay, who also writes with sym-
pathy of John Ford Paterson; and Bertram
Stevens has a dissertation on Streeton’s
later work. Nobody who wants to know
what Australian artists have done and are
doing can afford to do without Art in Aus-
tralia; and those who don’t get it can’t know
of what fine things the Australian printer
is now capable. The frontispiece is a repro-
duction of G.-G. Munro Ferguson’s Rae-
burn, a portrait of Lord Newton (Hardy
Wilson supplies the accompanying article) ;
and this is only one of a dozen color-prints
of which all concerned are entitled to feel
very proud. Incidentally, this number
breaks new ground with a characteristic
sketch by Norman Lindsay and a set of
verses by Hugh McCrae.
Poems, by Cynthia Ro\van (Alexander
McCubbin, Melbourne). Some of the verses
are very pleasing; most of them are rather
commonplace, both in theme and handling.
This does not mean that they are badly
done; they simply fail in interest because
they tread a path which is so familiar and
tread it walking. almost exactly in old foot-
prints. Here is a sonnet which is above
the average of the book, though not much
above it:—
What matter though the sun go down before
Mine eyes, which may a thousand shadows mark ?
I’ll watch, as homesick exiles left on shore
Might watch the sails grow distant of the bark
That brought them thence, till they behold no more.
So will I 100k —then turn towards the dark.
Returned Empty, by Florence Barclay
(G. P. Putnam. New York). A child
brought up in an orphanage grows to man-
hood to discover he is the reincarnated hus-
band of a lady who has been waiting for
him. He remembers; the wife dies; the
man is killed in the war. Stupid stuff, appa-
rently written to feed the present American
craze for spiritualistic sensation.
Stalky’s Forlorn Hope, by Captain S. G.
Savige (Alex. McCubbin, Melbourne). About
the beginning of 1918, when Lenin
pulled Russia out of the war and
left a big gap through which Fritz
and Abdul could pour cash and agi-
tators into the regions bordering on India,
Britain organised a small force to push up
from Bagdad and try to plug the hole. It
was a risky and picturesque job involving
sudden and violent contact with tribes of
Kurds, and possible treachery from Persians
and loose lots of Bolsheviks in the Caspian
towns; but the little mob of heroes, who had
been carefully selected from British and
Dominion regiments, reckoned the adventure
worth the hazard. Major-General G. B.
Dunsterville, the original Stalky of Kipling’s
yarn, commanded the operations, and one of
his brightest subordinates was Captain S. G.
Savige, D.S.O. and M.C., an Australian
warrior who tells the whole story in this
compact little volume. Savige writes in a
clear, terse style, with suppression of the
personal pronoun, but his nonchalant narra-
tive only serves to emphasise the pluck and
audacity of the whole expedition.
Through all the splendid sunrise I will play;
Grasp at life's morning-glories for my hair;
Weave brilliant wreaths of them, qor shall I care
If all the blossoms perish at midday.
I shall be breathless then, and glad to stay
In peace beneath some trees whose limbs prepare
A shady couch for indolence, and wear
The afternoon deliciously away.


A V'
• «
i
■i
sm
m
is
CITY
t BRIGHTNESS AND
! CONVENIENCE IN THE
COUNTRY
Country residents can now enjoy
the convenience, safety and comfort
of electric light and power by means
of the
I.G.E. HOME LIGHT AND
POWER UNIT.
This is a complete plant for the
generation and storage of electricity.
It is compact, economical to run,
safe and easily operated, and can be
installed in any convenient position.
It affords all the advantages of a city
electric supply, being of sufficient
capacity to permit the use of elec-
trical appliances, such as vacuum
cleaners, motors for driving sewing
machines, electric irons, toasters, etc.
as well as electric light in every room
in the house. Furthermore, the full
horse-power of the engine is avail-
able at all times, for driving pumps,
grindstones, churns, and light
machinery.
The I.G.E. HOME LIGHT AND
POWER UNIT is a sound invest-
ment that will pay big dividends of
comfort.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS
TO-DAY.
I 35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDNEY
116 QUEEISt STREET.
MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE, S. A.-Charles Atkins &. Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie St
BRISBANE Q.-The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd
(E.S.C.A.), Corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
TASMANIA—OIiver &, Oliver, Hobart and Launceston,
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co.CW.A.) Ltd., Mazda
House,” 894 Hay Street, .
IIEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical and Engineering
Co. Ltd., Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Welhngton.


tm
They Don’t
Miss
A BID.
Winchcombe- Carson
men get every pos-
sible penny buyers
can pay at the
yards.
The firm’s salesmen are alert and know
values. That is why each new Winchcombe-
Carson sender becomes a Permanent Client.
Top Market Prices.
CONSIGN SHEEP AND CATTLE:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
are already regarded by thousands
of regular customers as the most
appetising and dainty biscuits on
the Australian market. And so
they should be—if perfect condi-
tions of manufacture and the very
best materials can make them so.
Only the best flour, butter and
sugar are used in these biscuits—
you can depend on that always.
“Joyce” biscuits may now be
obtained in closely-sealed Hb. paper
packets, as well as in 21b. tins.
YOUR GROCER SELLS THEM.
57'v/y vanelies
If you must
rear baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches
. most closely to Mother’s Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and
proved equivalent to Mother’s
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation.
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
Mellins
Food
Writ® now for sample of Mellin’s Food and
useful Handbook—‘The Care of Infants’—Free.
Then there's his Bottle Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle is the perfect and simple Feeder.
Messrs. Gollin <s* Co. Proprietary. Ltd.
SYDNEY
ren
a
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 krs.
Made in various
size's and styles
from y 2 -pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
bard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust—Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES-Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
** Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookinan Buildings.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
NORMAN BAKER & LONG HURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
■fhiStlC
3 " Shirts
No shirts offer more in fabric,
pattern, color and style— no
shirts are better fitting —no
shirts are cut more accurately,
nor finished more expertly than
Thistle Shirts.
Give Thistle Pyjamas a trial.
Sold at all Clothing Stores.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
A.S. 43
%/
n
m
mm
&
m
w
wm
See
M-i i s
brAnd
°n
each
shirt-
URODONAL
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
MAINTAINS YOUTH OF THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts, allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstraiD
of the heart.
Prepared by
Etablissement*
Chatelain,
Paris.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
[2
“The Wanderer”: Pigs on the Manning
(N.S.W.) are getting too flash to grunt now.
Jack Cox, of Wherrol Flat, wheeled 11 into
the Wingham yards the other day, and, put
tunder the hammer, they fell at £lO3 17s. for
the lot.
One of the last words which Gov.-Gen.
Munro Ferguson addressed to Australia was
that “a country could not have too many
harbors and cities,” and he hinted broadly
that the One Bloated City policy is a
curse. He was speaking in Sydney, and a
State where 1000 miles or so of costly, unpay-
able railway have been built to carry trade
past good, handy ports, because they aren’t
the swollen metropolis, was a good site on
which to build the oration.
Reginald Bright, dead at 87 in London,
came to Melbourne in 1852, a lad of 19, in
the Great Britain steamship, her first
voyage to Port Phillip. Two years later an
elder brother, Charles Edward, followed, and
the firm of Bright Brothers and Co., an
offshoot of Gibbs, Bright and Co., was
founded. Another brother —they were sons
of Robert Bright, of Bristol —was a General
in the army ; another a Judge in India; a
third was killed in the Indian Mutiny.
Charles Edward married in 1868, in the
Anglican Church at Toorak. a daughter of
the Governor, Viscount Canterbury. He
died a few years ago at 85. Reggie never
married.
“R. Tape” : The job of private secretary to
P.M. Hughes may be vacant soon. Most
of the heads of Federal Departments got a
nice rise in screw out of the Budget, but,
apart from Solicitor-General Garran, who
soared from £lOOO (or £l2OO with a special
allowance) to £2OOO, none was so well
treated as Shepherd, official secretary to the
P.M.’s Department, who was lifted to £1250
from £750, or £9OO including a bonus. As
against that Percy Deane, the capable young
man who is nominally private secretary but
really a heap more than that, sticks at his
old £4OB. Last year he had an allowance
of £5O, but it is not explicitly set forth
whether that will be renewed. Yet D#ane
was secretary to the Australian delegation
at the League of Nations’ meeting, and has
done a lot of other delicate and important
work.
Cold Tea’s effort in the Vic. Assembly to
dragoon members into voting for a bill pro-
viding that a simple instead of a three-
fifths majority should suffice to carry no-
license at a local option poll failed dis-
mally. The division on the second reading
of the measure, for which Greenwood stood
sponsor, showed 24 for and 34 against. Law-
son and four of his Ministers voted with
the C.T. section; McPherson. Oman and
Barnes were on the other side. A better
tactician than Greenwood might have per-
suaded the House to pass the second reading
and made the real fight on the third reading,
after the committee stage had permitted of
compromises; but the stage management was
amateurish, and Snowball flourished in vain
a compensation amendment he intended to
move. So the coming poll will be on the pre-
sent basis, and. according to Greenwood’s
own wail, it will be impossible to carry no-
license by the required three-fifths majority.
By the British Education Act of ’lB,
known as the “Rights of Youth Act,” every
boy and girl remains under full- or part-
time educational control until 18 years of
age. No child under 12 may be employed
for gain anywhere; no child between 12 and
14 may be employed before school hours or
before 6 a.m. or after 8 p.m.; no boy or girl
under 17 may trade in the streets. Every
child, after leaving the full-time school —at
14 in England, at 15 in Scotland —must con-
tinue to attend school for at least 320 hours
a year in daylight until 18 years of age, both
parents and employer being under obligation
to see that this is done. Australia hasn’t
awakened yet. Excluding the few private
secondary schools, Melbourne, with a popula-
tion of 723,000 has high-school pupils
totalling 1940 and 5975 technical scholars.
Sydney, with 792,000 of population, has 4200
in its high schools and twice as many in its
technical classes. The education of the
vast majority ceases absolutely when they
reach 14, if not sooner.
From an Australian who went to London
to push Australian trade: —
I called at Australia House and it looks like a
big morgue. You can feel the atmosphere of the
tomb directly you enter, and since I have been busy
amongst the merchants I have found that it is
a laughing stock. I met an assistant deputy -
secretary to the High Commissioner, whose manner
verged on the comatose. He said Mr. Fisher was
staying at home for a few days. I said “Oh, I am
sorry if he is not well.” The assistant-deputy re-
plied, “Oh, he is quite well, but he is just staying
at his house. He will be here next Wednesday.”
This was on a Friday. And Heaven knows there is
enough to do! I have been interested in some jam
which is a disgrace and has done untold harm to
all Australian jams on this market. A big merchant
ordered some of the advertised “best Australian.” It
came in dirty, battered tins, with pulpy stuff leaking
from it and running over everything. And when
you know what excellent jam we have, isn’t it too
bad? Then there is a poisonous thing on this
market called wine, and advertised as the very best
Australian. It is completely ruining our trade,
and I am getting busy about that now.
“Copabella” : Federal old-age pensions hav-
ing reduced its need for benevolent asylums
to a minimum, Victoria is considering the
segregation of its few derelicts into one or
two institutions and the utilisation of their
generally ancient quarters for other purposes.
An incident at Geelong will probably hasten
its decision —at any rate, it should. Gee-
long Benevolent Asylum is part of the dis-
trict hospital, the working of the two as
one proving, on paper, economical: the hos-
pital administration and staff, kitchen and
laundry, serve for both, and an inmate wai'ds-
man acts as father to the male ancients,
some of whom are able to do a little towards
their maintenance by, pottering about the
garden and doing odd jobs for hospital and
asylum. One of these, a septuagenarian, has
disturbed the pleasant dream : he had abused
his freedom to go to any part of the insti-
tution by including the section devoted to
convalescent girl-children. The ancient
satyr confessed when a rage-blind father
waded m to tear the hospital to bits, and
an indignant Bench put the beast away for
a term.


An Interesting' Case Told in a Humorous Way
The following letter is another striking tribute to the blood-purifying properties of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Although written in a somewhat humorous strain, Mr. Hastie
is nevertheless sincere, and will be pleased to confirm what he says.
Dear Sirs,
21 South Street, Double Bay, Sydney.
Even in these days of strenuous endeavor and daily struggle for existence, one occasionally
finds time to discourse upon the merits or demerits of people, commodities, patent medicines and
pills, so I crave your patience awhile if I may, and will give you a brief review of my medical history
from June, 1916, to the present day, which includes, of course, my service of three years with the
A.I.F. overseas, those three years of bodily unhappiness being the main cause of my writing. It
gives me unbounded pleasure to thus extol the wonderful virtues of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
and the following is an unbiassed history of the benefit I have derived from them. The facts
are these: June, 1916, went into camp at Dubbo, N.S.W. A fortnight elapsed; came out all over
from head to heel in a red, itchy rash. Big blains, similar to bug or mosquito bites (there were
no “chats” in those days). Went to the M. 0., who examined me, took my temperature, and ordered
me to the Observation Tent. Spent eighteen hours in the company of another patient, who Was
also under observation, though his was for diphtheria! The rash disappeared for a week. On its
reappearance underwent further examination, and was informed I had hives. Cure, black draught.
Ugh! Didn’t stay cured, however, and so on and off till October, 1916, had this elusive, madden-
ing rash. It disappeared on the transport, and no further trace was apparent till March, 1917.
More medical observation. This time was given ‘‘number 9’s” and a lotion for external use, with
instructions to refrain from pickles, ' cheese or vinegar, etc. At various times and places
during my sojourn in sunny (?) France, and charming (??) Belgium my rash appeared,
sticking closer and more faithful than ever a soldier chum knew how. On leave, went
to private doctors (several). Each and every diagnosis was different. Here are a few:
Hives, ptomaine poisoning, stomach disorder, ascaris, after effects of malarial fever, scabies, blood-
poisoning. Anyway, had my beloved rash still with me when I returned to Aussie, September 2,
1919. On leave prior to discharge met an old chum, who was very much concerned at my blotchy
and general unhappy appearance. He went so far as to suggest I had leprosy! I told him what
the multitude of doctors had said, and that I despaired of ever losing my “old man of the sea.”
He then suggested a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Said they had done him the world
of good for kidney trouble, and added that perhaps uric acid might be the cause of my complaint.
I said I was fed up with patent medicines and pills, having tried so many. Anyway, I started a course
of Root Pills. A month went by, and no rash. Carried on with them, and still no rash. So here I
am —twelve months home nearly and only one recurrence. That was because I knocked them off.
Now I take these pills every morning, and as long as they are procurable I intend to have them.
Even if you start to profiteer, probably I shall curse you; still I’ll buy ’em, and take care, too, to
have a bottle in hand in case of a strike. Now, gentlemen, the main reason (as I have stated) for
writing was to give a genuine proof of the value of Root Pills to me. But also my experience and
the subsequent discovery of this medicine that has made life worth living for me may be of some use
to other poor unfortunates who may be troubled as I was. Oh, how I can sympathise when I think
of those dreary, sleepless nights, and the agonising itch, itch, scratch, scratch, with no hope of relief!
I even envied the most “chatty” person in the A.I.F. My company chums can bear out all I have
written. I have not exaggerated in any one detail. In closing, my earnest wish is that the formulae
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will never be lost, at least not while I am sojourning on this quaint
old planet. After? Well, methinks one will not need pills of any kind. N’est ce pas? Might
mention I now eat any old thing at all—just as fancy or desire dictates—safe behind my “impenetrable
armor” of huge stacks of Root Pills. (Signed) FRANK W. HASTIE.
V/2////////A
m
Morses
R
D
li
liver
the
FOR
2
wmmmmm.
For the purpose of cleansing the system, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are unrivalled. They cleanse the stomach, purify the blood,
aid the digestion and assimilation of food, and tone the entire system.


Hose of Luxite
is made in your favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
Talc,
Powder
0
*•>
Si - : -
!
s
rO,
u'iS
ml
m<v.
m
m
m
mi
if
= i
Wi
Williams
La Tosca Rose
Talc Powder
4®:
tVHITE
ThflßWillianis Co
Glashonburu • Conn.
m
u. s. A.
©HP
Williams’ Talc.
Powder will appeal to
your taste, economy and
convenience. There is more
comfort in the powder, more
powder in the canister, which
is fitted with a special hinged
top for greater convenience and
to retain the full fragrance of
the perfume. You have your
choice from Violet, Carnation,
English Lilac, La Tosca Rose,
Matinee (new) and Baby Tal-
cum (practically unscented).
Ask your chemist for Williams’
Talc. Powder. He should be
able to supply you —or send
1/8 in stamps direct to
Williams, Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for full
size tin Post Free.
W. 22
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
OSTER Matchless Screwing Tools meet the requirements of all
industries that use Stocks and Dies. They are efficient and
durable, and so simple in operation that inexperienced users have
no trouble with them.
We would like to give you a demonstration.
DISTRIBUTORS:
('lias. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Clms. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd.. Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty.., Ltd., Melbourne.
I’arke & Lacy Co. Ltd.. Sydney.
R, L. Serutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Prede. Ash, Ltd., Nevveastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goniiian & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
T. ,1. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart,
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
EiiKlneeriiiK Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 1C Hunter Street, Sydney.
The
STER
MANUFACTURING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists. [3
VtfW
rni* 115
Canno
Cleans I
ILeguU
fcritryh.
A«k for ONOTQ
:lassK»
fcure.
Be «t for all Pens
yu
r
Happiness
The way to radiate happiness
is to be happy—the way to be
happy is to cultivate good health
An easy way to cultivate good health and happiness is to acquire
certain simple habits of life. The Kruschen Habit is a simple
habit—it is quite simple to drink a tumbler of hot water with a
half-teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts in it every morning on rising
for a few weeks at a time. Yet this simple habit makes for
health and happiness as nothing else does—for it cleanses the
system, purifies the blood, and tones up mind and body to the
acme of efficiency. “ The difference between an optimist and a
pessimist ”, it has been well said, “is a dose of Kruschen
Salts ! ” Get the Kruschen Habit —persevere with it—and
prove this saying for yourself. It is the safe, sure road to health
and to the happiness that health confers.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents .
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors. E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd..6B Deansgate Arcade, Manchester. England
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per Dottle
Auckland claims a record weight of an ox-
hide. It scaled 1271 b., and, at 15Jd. per lb.,
realised £8 Is. 4fd. Only a few years since
you could almost buy a mob for that much.
Piggy Flat (S.A.) has not unnaturally
grown tired of its name, and has worried
the Government till a “proclamation” was
lately issued that for the future it shall be
called Bruillon.
The underwriters were in too much of a
hurry over selling the French ship Notre
Dame d’Arvor, stranded off Port Victoria
. (S.A.). The hulk was sold as it stood on
the reef for £35. Refloating looks like a
certainty now. Meanwhile one anchor-chain
is said to have realised £7OO.
“Paul Cupid”: “A.J.S.” (B. 26/8/’2O)
says a log 16ft. long and sft. girth “con-
tains 400 ft. gross measurement and 300 ft.
net.” It is not stated whether this log is
round or square or polyhedral; but even if
it were all three together it would, without
any allowance for sap or heart, contain
only 300 superficial feet. This correction
might save some log-hauler from fighting the
tally-clerk in the sawdust over his measure-
ment.
“Ex-Dig.”: One heartless Digger who
wanted to dodge his responsibilities was
absent from the transport on which he was
supposed to sail with his wife and three
children ; and he is still, presumably, some-
where in Britain, whilst his family is in
Australia. As the Repat. deals only with
the soldier's wife when she is a widow, she
can get none of the benefits which are given
under its schemes; but she has put in a
claim against the soldier’s gratuity, and she
likes Australia so well that she intends to
stay and battle through some way.
It will be possible, under the new scale
provided for Vic. State-school teachers, for a
pedagogue of 27 to draw £6 a week, the maxi-
mum for the fifth class. Ordinarily, however,
the effort to reach that screw will take ten
years from the time the apprenticeship is
begun ; so the prospect for male teachers is
still not very alluring. At the same time
Director Tate has earned the goodwill of
5000 teachers by making the conditions ever
so much better than they were. Some will
get rises of £2 and a few of £3 a week.
Treasurer McPherson, of Victoria, lately
shocked a deputation of social reformers by
saying that it was high time the tote re-
placed Ikey Moses. For a while they were
stunned into silence, but when W. H. Edgar,
M. the leader of the deputation, protested
that he did not favor the legalisation of any
form of gambling, the cheers of the people
who are Ikey’s best friends were something
to remember. When they subsided Mac
launched his uppercut. “As Treasurer,” he
said, “I collect about £BO,OOO a year from
bookmakers. I might just as well get it from
the totalisator, which at all events does not
walk about the city streets asking people to
gamble.”
“Smilax”: Shearing was in progress at a
Riverina shed recently. It was Saturday
morning and the last of the neighbors’ sheep
were being finished prior to a start being
made on the station flock. The very last
lot belonged to a struggling young fellow
who had s,aved 90 ewes from the drought.
The shearers knew of this; but when time
was up, at about noon, they refused to finish
the young battler’s sheep, and he went home
with 88 ewes shorn and tico unshorn. It
was against their principles to finish these
two. The struggling cocky rode away think-
ing hard, while the shearers settled down
to read the speeches of the wealthy McGirr
and Minahan.
“Yarrum”: “D. Empson’s” par (B.
9/9/’2O) about the Digger who pleaded that
he was courting the licensee’s daughter
reminds me. With two others I was once
caught in a N. S. Wales country bar on a
Sunday. As I was escaping a big Hiber-
nian John challenged and demanded my
name. I took a chance and told him Z—, the
name of the district’s police-superintendent.
His pencil poised doubtfully. “Inny relashun
to the simper?” .he said. I replied care-
lessly, “Only his nephew.” He pocketed
his notebook and whispered: “Git for your
life out t’rough the back.” I got, and the
publican is wondering still why the case
against him was dropped.
“Chev”: Dairy-farmers having secured
“world’s parity,” and hit up the priee of
butter to 2s. and 2s. lOd. per lb., the
next thing will be sugar. Prepare for the
cry of the cane-grower now the precedent
has been set by Judge Rolin, of N. S. Wales.
The cane man can’t see why the dairy-
farmer should have preferential treatment in
this “world’s parity” matter. Sugar is 6d.
a lb. in Australia (and what a kick there was
when it went up from to 6d.!) ; but prices
in other countries are (Times quotations) :
Great Britain, Is. 2d. per lb.; France
(rationed) Is. lfd. and (free), Is. 9£d.;
Italy, 2s. Ofd.; Belgium, Is. 2d.; Germany,
45.; United States, Is. 2d. Latest news is
that tile British Sugar Commission, having
purchased the Mauritius crop, “hopes it will
not be necessary to further increase the re-
tail price.”
Marie Sophia Nicholson Dalglish Bellasis,
whose N. S. Wales estate was recently pro-
bated, was originally Marie de Lauret, of
Goulburn. She first married that Dalglish
who got in early at Broken Hill. From him
she derived a large family and heaps of cash,
and later married one Bellasis, a member of
a prominent Catholic family in England.
When she died at the end of last year her
English estate was worth £91,762 (on which
the duty was £11,766) and her investments in
N. S. Wales (including 8600 shares in Syd-
ney Ferries) totted up to £162,074. There
was only one shock in the will. It bequeathed
an annuity of £3OO to a sister and £25,000
to a daughter, with directions that the
amounts should be reduced to £lOO and
£3OOO respectively in the event of the bene-
ficiaries becoming nuns. Very precise
directions were given as to the disposal of
“my diamond necklet, my sapphire and dia-
mond necklet and my ruby and diamond pen-
dant,” which are to be treated as heirlooms
of the Dalglish family. To her husband
Mrs. Bellasis left £lOOO a year and a gift of
£3OOO to furnish a humpy. The lady herself
was—at one time, at any rate —a devout
R.C., and made the Church large gifts.


MISS IVY SHILLING, the Original
Rexona Girl, swears by REXONA.
I have much pleasure in recommending your Rexona, for I have been using it
constantly for some time. As a rub-down after acrobatic dancing, and as a magical reviver
to strained muscles, I have found it excellent. After surfing it is invaluable as a protection
against sunburn and freckles. It is a wonderful healer, and I always keep a tin of it handy.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) IVY SHILLING.
Girls! Rexona
iSoap g'ives
Natural Beauty
to sKin and
Hair, so be a
Rexona Girl.
Be Dainty
Be Pretty
Be Attractive.
Rexona
>Soap
'
K;."... '
V
■
II
.
Miss IVY SHILLING
(from a photo by M. and
May Moore).
Miss Ivy Shilling'
is back in
Australia after a
few years’
absence in
England, wbere
sbe became a
favorite witb
London
theatregoers.
We all look
forward witb
pleasure to soon
seeing' ber
g'raceful
dancing
again.
WHY NOT BE A REXONA GIRL, TOO?
The Rexona Club of Rexona Girls is now many thousands strong. All Rexona Girls
are beautiful, for beauty and Rexona gc together; so if you are not already a Rexona Girl don’t
delay, but join the Rexona Girls Club at once, use only RexoSia and Rexona Soap, and be happy
and beautiful. Remember, Rexona Soap ensures that clear, fresh skin and beautiful hair which
go so far to give any girl that natural charm and beauty which is her rightful heritage.
REXONA SOAP for HEALTH and BEAUTY
GET THE REXONA HABIT.
/?77777777777777777777777Z?y7Z77777777777?7Z7777777777777777777/
v,/
&A
V/,
V?A
%
Mi
CLEANSES
I
Bath
<k^sk
S
SKI
FAC
IAL
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney. N.S.W.
r
m
i
1
f
Rexona Soap still 11 -
A habit formed is hard to break. Bad
habits are easily formed; but good habits
can be attained almost ■as easily. The
Rexona habit results in health and beauty,
and once formed will never be broken.
There are two Rexona habits—that of
using Rexona Ointment to heal all in-
juries to the skin, and the Rexona Soap
habit, which consists of keeping oneself
clean and pure with a delicately-scented
and medicated soap. Rexona Ointment
and Rexona Soap mean skin health and
beauty, comfort to the user, and
immunity from disease. So form the
Rexona habit.
Take a tablet of Rexona Soap and a
triangular pot of Rexona the Rapid
Healer, home to-night. You will be
delighted with them and wonder how
you ever got along without them.
_oolir\d,,
Soolhmg,, -
Healing
pJnliseplic Oinlmer\l
sftjrif‘ e3 J? 7%sokifely S
& Heals j Reliable
mom
grain juii^nai
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the
fSkin, Eczema. Pimples, Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hands.
'Sciatica, itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Burns Bruises. Scalds.
Bad Legs. 51ings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation
1/6
and
si-


(c<f
rr
K
&r<
/«
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
Cuticura
Will Help
You Have
HairLikeThis
Touch spots of
dandruff and
itching, if any,
with Cuticura
Ointment.
Shampoo with
Cuticura Soap
and hot water.
For sample each
address :‘‘K.To wns
<S Co., Sydney,N.S.
W.” Sold every-
where.
nuTCuticura Soap
shaves with-
out mug.
WARATAH'
FftjtN-CJ NG f
- WIRf l - 2
m
mill
Free to
Farmers.
The Waratah Fencing Booklet
—it is full of vital points on
fencing. Write to-day for your
free copy.
Waratah Wire strains tighter,
costs less.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. Ltd.
Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
town*'
'Justßav'*
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. i Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine Nfjw Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuis ; ,ne. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Dunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
"Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
/ Gibs cm’s
f
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
Hr gh-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
T/nder the management of P. Hennessy.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist,Southampton, England
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PARSONS
Marine and
Stationary
SINI9N3 110
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
63 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs SKF
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout his
plant has done the utmost towards reaching
highest efficiency with maximum economy,
for SKFs save from 50% to 100% of their
value yearly.
SKF Ball Bearings are made from Swedish.
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard thoughout.
SKF
SKF Bearings do NOT become hot, hence
they prevent loss of power due to excessive
friction. They assure smooth, free*running,
saving of power, saving of belts and supreme
durability.
Specify SKF Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant thai
needs bearings.
GARDNER,
W/ERN
& GO.,
Power & Lighl
Engineers.
MELBOURNE-
-384 City Road
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street
SYDNEY-
-226 Clarence St,
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Btreet
Are You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, GORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
POISONJ
eed, Scr>
Tree Km-
uU
directions
0& LECCO & CO^
Manufactured in
Australia by
MELBOURNE
A. VICTOR LEGGO 4 CO.
; - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Couch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming.
Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer ?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has effectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
“Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Prices: 56 lbs. 70/-, 15 lbs. 21/3,
7 lbs. 10/6, 1 lb. 21-, l lb. 1/3.
Postage: Within the State. 1 lb. 9d., i lb. 6d. extra.
Interstate. 1 lb. 1;2, _ lb. 8d» extra.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“The Mitchell”: A Bulletin writer
(2/9/’2O) gives Harold Parsons’s recent 11141 miles
as a world’s motor-bike record. It is only an Aus-
tralian one, having precedence over Cannonball
Baker’s effort of 1027 miles. The world’s best was
hung up by Allan Bedell, of U.S.A., recently killed
white attempting a coast-to-coast record. In 1917
he rode 11531 miles in the 24 hours, and 1000 miles
in 20hr. 45min.
* * * *
“Wang”: The mystery flights of lost
golf balls were beaten the other Saturday afternoon,
when the Brighton football team was playing against
Williamstown at the. former’s ground. The railway
line to Sandringham runs alongside the oval, and a
player, making a wild kick at the ball as he was
sprinting along the wing, caught the wind-bag on
the side of his boot, and propelled it over the fence
on to the line just as a train was passing. The
ball bounced on to a rail, and sped right through
the open doorways of a Tait carriage. On the other
side of the line it hit some projection and bounced
back into the train. The high price of footballs
caused an official of the club to rush to the station,
but he didn’t recover the lost bag of wind.
* * * *
An English expert opinion on Patterson’s
defeat in the tennis championship:—
“Naturally we were disappointed. Patterson
lost in the first place because Tilden exploited
his weakness; but he lost in the first, second
and last place because the weakness was there
to be exploited. The weakness was in a back-hand
stroke, which, instead of being made with a horizon-
tal racket, with the thumb supporting the grip along
the handle, is made with the fingers turned towards
the net—an obvious mechanical disadvantage, which
even in the hands of. anyone who has practised it
as confidently as Patterson, results in a backhand
shot of high trajectory, slow, sometimes mis
directed and sometimes a mishit.”
* * * *
“Fax”: Duelling having been re-legalised
in Uruguay, the first combatants were the Minister
of Works and a newspaper editor whose organ had
uttered nasty things about the challenger. The
editor was slightly wounded, and “honor was satis-
fied.” The duel that isn’t to the death is a most
illogical pastime. One of the parties professes a
raging desire to be avenged of an insult or an injury,
and whether he kill or scratch the other fellow, he
is supposed to get equal satisfaction. If lie receives
the scratch himself his honor is satisfied, Lord
knows why ; or if they both fire at one another and
couldn’t hit a haystack under the trying circum-
stances, they shake hands. If they are not out for
the express purpose of killipg one another they can
have no reasonable purpose in trying their best to
that end, and if they are out for blood the fairest
way of settling the matter would be a toss-up—-
winner kill the loser in any way previously agreed
upon. One gun, one death, one funeral. Then the
wronged man would be fully avenged, or the insulted
one would die with the insult wiped out by his
own gore. As for the duel that costs nobody a tear,
it had better be a game of billiards for drinks all
round. Combatants to be fairly handicapped by
the marker.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: I’m game to bet
that nowhere in the world can such a variety of
sport be seen as that which takes place weekly on
the square mile or so of open space surrounding
Moore Park (Sydney). A few Saturdays ago: at
the Agricultural, Sports and Cricket grounds thou-
sands of barrackers were watching “big” football;
numerous small matches were in progress on the
“outer”; several early cricketers were having a
practice swipe ; a hockey team (girls) and a basket-
ball ditto (also girls) were hard at it near-by ; on
the Municipal links golfers were trudging about;
a score of harriers in shorts were sweating earnestly
in a walking race; along the route lialf a dozen
baseball matches were raging; draped across the
railings of the park lake were hundreds of onlookers
intent upon the Model Yacht Club’s miniature re-
gatta ; the sky was speckled with ’planes out to meet
Parer and Mclntosh; at Kenso. a large Band of
Hope was judging the quick and the dead ; it’s odds
on that the pupils of numerous two-up schools were
studying hard in the solitude back o’ the sandhills;
and tram passengers returning from the city were
besieged with “Who won the boat-race?”
* * * *
“Fax”: The Sydney reputation of Chryso-
laus is as unconvincing to Melbourne provincials
as was the Melbourne reputation of Artilleryman to
those who had judged him only on his Rosehill and
I’andwick performances. The fiery grey ran three
times on Melbourne courses, and the nearest he got
was when Eusebius gave him 121 b. and
a fair beating in the Bourke Handicap on Australian
Cup day. Previous to running poorly in the rich
Futurity Stakes and Newmarket Handicap last
autumn the imported horse behaved very badly, and
it then seemed improbable that he would do better
in the following Spring—the season when even a-
greybeard’s fancy lightly turns, etc. With memories
of a neighing, snorting, kicking Chrysolaus crowding
thick upon them, many Melbourne punters who
backed the uncertain animal in March can hardly
think of him as a good thing for one or more of
the big handicaps in October, and for Melbourne
Cup they give him no chance at all. Yet his per-
formance in the Chelmsford Stakes looks undeniably
great, and his burst of squealing after the race
made it the more remarkable from a Melbourne point
of view. Naturally one asks what sort of a steam-
engine is Chrysolaus when caught in a silent mood?
Anyhow, it seems certain that weight will not stop
him on his good day. When Eusebius resisted the
grey’s challenge in the Bourke Handicap they car-
ried Bst. 121 b. and Bst. respectively. At Randwick
the grey humped 9st. 111 b., and made light of it,
whereas Bst. 51b. had seemed more than enough for
him in the Doncaster. All things considered Chryso-
laus appears a bobby-dazzler to be always afraid of,
rather than one to back at s.p.
* * * *
“E.H.”: “Digger’s” XI for the first test
in December (B. 16/9/’2O) is rough on Young Aus-
tralia. Carter (42), Armstrong (41), Ransford (35)
—surely it’s time youth got a chance. Collins should
have preference over Armstrong. The latter is too
bulky and isn’t amiable enough to keep the XI
running smoothly. Collins (with A.I.F. last year)
was tested against Armstrong (Vic.) and Carter
(N.S.W.), and he outgeneralled both. For wicket-
keeper, Andy Ratcliffe (N.S.W.) and V. Selth (S.A.)
deserve preference over the grey-haired Carter —the
former for choice. Whitty (too much like a subur-
ban alderman) cannot be considered on last year’s
form (six wickets in Sheffield Shield costing 59.60
each). Ransford is always verging on retirement.
Mailey’s punch in big matches last year was feeble
(13 wickets averaging 41.30 in Sheffield Shield) ; and
a mediocre “googly” bowler is a millstone. Tommy
Andrews is worth a place (even as captain he
wouldn’t be out of place) ; Ryder, Park, Kelleway,
Macartney and Mayne are solid and worth while.
Now as to Youth available. C. E. Pellew (S.A.),
whose brilliant 294 v. Victoria last year is still
talked about; H. L. Hendry (N.S.W.), a tall, lath-
built all-rounder, who headed Ma’s bowling in Shef-
field Shield last year with 22 wickets averaging
11.50, and also averaged 32.60 with the bat; A.
W. Lampard (A.1.F.), a great all-rounder; Carl
V/illis, who scored 1829 runs with A.1.F., averaging
41.56; Jimmy Bogle (N.S.W.), brilliant left-hand
batsman, not afraid to be vigorous; A. Richardson
(S.A.), and brothers E. and W. L. Trenerry
(N.S.W.). My team to take the field (after seeing
N S.W., Vic., S. Aus. and A.I.F. teams in action
last year) would line up: Collins (captain). Rat-
chffe, T. Andrews, Hendry, J. M. Gregory, Pellew,
Ryder, Park, Mayne, Macartney, C. Kelleway, Willis
(12). There’s not a bad batsman in the XI; there
are seven bowlers to take a turn in the attack ; and
there will not be anything to cavil at in the fielding.
(Continued on page J/6.)


Dodge- Brothers
Build 500,000
Industrial Achievement Said to be
Without Parallel in the
Automobile Industry.
Half-Million Car Is Made Centre
of Ceremonies at Factory;
Haynes Gives Address.
On July 1, 1914, Dodge Brothers were
completing their last contract as manu-
facturers of, automobile parts. The first
Dodge Brothers motor car had not yet been
built.
On July 1, 1920, a great crowd of work-
men assembled within the gates of the fac-
tory and let loose a mighty cheer as a
glistening new roadster was swung into posi-
tion on a high platform adorned with flowers
and American flags.
It was Dodge Brothers motor car No.
500,000.
Production had attained the half-million
mark within 67 months after the first car
was put on the market. It was an achieve-
ment without parallel in the automobile in-
dustry, and was accordingly made the occa-
sion of a fitting celebration. Dodge
Brothers’ Band played a special concert, and
F. J. Haynes, vice-president and general
manager, delivered an address. The car was
decorated with an immense floral wreath and
above it hung a banner bearing the following
words:
500,000 in 67 Months.
This unparalleled achievement was
made possible because of the splendid
work of Dodge Brothers’ organisation,
which means every man in the plant.
In his address to the employees, Mr.
Haynes eommended them on the loyalty and
diligence that had made the record possible,
and related some interesting facts pertain-
ing to the early history and growth of the
institution.
On December 4, 1914, when the first car
left the factory for the world market, Dodge
Brothers’ works comprised little more than
20 square acres of floor space. Now the
acreage has risen to 100, and additions under
construction will soon bring it well above
120. Instead of a few thousand workmen,
the plant now employs more than 22,000 men,
with families representing five times that
number.
“During June, 1920, you built and shipped
over 60 times as many cars as you built in
December, 1914,” Mr. Haynes said. “The
car was designed on honesty, was built on
honesty and was marketed on honesty, and
that is why it has been a success. You
builded better than you knew. You built a
plant that cannot stop—it has got to go on
for ever.”
Dodgeßrdthers
MOTOR CAR
Owners everywhere report small
upkeep expenditures.
The repair cost, except in case of
accident, is next to nothing.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodbe Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., I,td. :
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle
& Motor Agency
Brisbane.
(Queensland)
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Winterbottoni Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
safeguard your health
0T J.CoIIjs 8ro(ty)g'$
CWorodyffe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FKVEIUSH-
NKSS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
neuralgia, tooth-
ache, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
4pLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3J-.
Made in England.
r-
/
/
A HAIRDRESSING
SALOON.
Perfect in
Equipment.
The finest in Sydney. Every
modern appointment, conveni-
ence and comfort.
Craig % Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best satoons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, here
illustrated. and for which
Craig and Aitken’s are Sole
Agents in Australia, is the Razor
we have used in our Saloon for
over 30 years.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or
Pair in Double Case, 25/-
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG § AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
Qtjfcensland
c allin& !
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
(Name
Address
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau;
Brisbane. ' c ~"
S.B.
For Infants
an all-important advantage.
Babies and growing children obtain from Benger’s Food
the great advantages of being reared on pure fresh milk.
These include healthful natural growth unchecked by the
under-nourishment which arises from unsuitable food.
Food
is always prepared with fresh milk, or milk and water
according fo the age of the child.
It is specially prepared to adjust the milk to the delicate digestion
of children and invalids. All the great good in milk Nature’s
all-important food —becomes available with Benger’s.
. "Benger's '■ood and How to Ureit.”— A little work of authority on the feeding of
infanta, invalids, and the aged, a moat interesting and informative booklet—post free trom
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietori and Manufacturer!: BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England.


A. Saunders’ Hot-water Kettle,
tmre Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
£5/10/-
V. Saunders' Fruit or Cake Stand, pure Silver-plated
A 1 quality, 80/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit, Salad or Preserve hand
decorated, floral China Dish, pure Silver-plated
Frame, 63/-
l - m
i m
mm
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set and Tray. A 1 quality, highly burnished, plain design,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit and Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, £7/10/-
Write for Our Illustrated Price List.
We Send all Orders Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 75/.
A. Saunders’ Supper Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, Satin Glass Lining, 65/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, 70/-
m
r
oWy,
n
2
V-
y/
'V'w
fff
*
«
~—-• —" r =- p ~^
X
How I Save
In spite of higher prices, lam saving money every day! So can you.
You see, I have given up cooking with dairy milk and only use Nestle’s
Condensed Milk. At first I thought it might be more expensive but now I realise
that besides being able to cook much tastier cakes, puddings and blanc manges, I
save dairy milk and sugar and use much less butter and fewer eggs.
Cooking with Nestle’s Condensed Milk means results that never vary and
a steady saving every week. You can prove it for yourself.
NESTLE’S Condensed MILK
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.


*3
&
U
1
■>*
s
19
S
A
Sn
&
©
$5
&
?<f
&
o
“O
?v
S
s
I do not think there is
a more anxious time for
parents than when their
children have croup.
Without they are pre-
pared with Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy
they must wait for the
doctor--listen to the chok-
ing cough watch the
little one gasping for
breath.
The great danger of
croup is the formation of
a false membrane in the
voice box. Until this is
expelled relief cannot be
obtained and the spas-
modic choking continues.
Give Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy in fre-
quent doses. It will
loosen this membrane
and cause the child to
expell it by vomiting.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is an absolutely
safe and certain remedy
for croup. If given as
soon as the child becomes
hoarse or even after the
-croupy cough appears it
will prevent the attack.
Experienced mothers
know that for the treat-
ment of croup in any
stage there is no medi-
cine equal to Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is used in thous-
ands of homes in Aus-
tralasia and I have yet
to learn of a single
instance where it has not
proved effectual.
JfecJtA -
COUCH REMEDY #
“Granny" Chamberlain
(Q.OPYR.IGr«T&a)
r
‘-.V*
CO aAH ALLEN & C° /.'*
IMPERIAL STEEL WORKS SHEFFIELD
GRANITE crush,no polls, 5O tON?-.-PER H. OUR
FITTED WITH RENEWABLE ALLENS MANGANESE STEEL SHELLS ,
Edgar Allen Crushing and Grinding
Machinery for all Classes of Material.
WE will be pleased to receive
inquiries for Crushing and Grind-
ing Machinery for the reduction of
any class of material wet or dry, all pro-
ducts of Edgar Allen & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Space does not permit a description of
the wide range of materials which can be
more profitably reduced or pulverised by
Edgar Allen machines, but if you are inter-
ested in the preparation of any material for
any purpose our advice and experience are
at your service.
The Crushing Roll illustrated is but one of
the many types of Edgar Allen machines
that we can supply. Ask us particulars of
Tube and Ball Mills, Combination Mills,
Rotary Kilns, Ore and Stone Crushers,
Coke and Coal Crushing Rolls, Cubing
Rolls, Pulverisers, Disintegrating and Dress-
ing Machines, Elevators and Screens.
A special book telling all about Edgar Allen
Crushing and Grinding equipment will be
forwarded on request. for it to-day.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501
Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Buildings, Adelaide. Agents: J. R. W. GARDAM,
Perth. Also CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. bsn
Sapling Hut.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE other night I dropped through 40
years into Sapling Hut. That is the
only way to find it now, or any-
thing resembling it, so far as I know. It
stood in its primitive majesty on a ban
of Tomki Creek, when beautiful scrub-
birds lived there and killed caterpillars on
the bark roof. sat on pine blocks round
a log fire in a capacious fireplace, whilst two
shaggy dogs snoozled in the ashes at the back
and several kangaroo hams hung in the
chimney over our heads.
Most bush people were familiar with baik
huts and slab huts, but the sapling hut was
a new proposition. It stood up neat, clean
and novel in a little clearing near the edge
of a dense pine scrub. All the walls inside
and outside were made of saplings, placed
horizontally between stout uprights. The
scrub provided the necessary poles, which
were handy and straight as gun-barrels.
Bill Brooks, who was starting to farm
there with an axe, brush-hook and hoe, was
sole proprietor. The tools mentioned being
his only visible means of support, and as his
maize-crop—when he cleared the scrub and
grew it —would bring him only about six
shillings a bag to pay off accumulated debts,
he had been doing some killing on the Fox-
tail Plains for winter meat, which he was
now smoking. We called him Sapling Bill,
because his barn, yard and fences, as well
as his residence, were made of saplings. The
buildings were strong, well-ventilated places,
and inmates could view the surrounding
scenery from any part of the interior.
The only other .sapling hut I have known
was near Cooyar Creek in Queensland. It
was the happy home of two young men who
had recently started on their selection. Like
Bill Brooks, all their constructive ideas
materialised in saplings, but whereas their
floor was a composition of ants’ nests and
wet cowdung, which set like cement, Bill’s
floor was made of saplings placed a foot off
the ground, and adzed on top to afford level
walking. That, however, was an after-
thought—after he’d broken two big toenails
against the ridges.
Sapling Bill wasn’t the only inhabitant
of Tomki Creek with new ideas of architec-
ture. The nearest dwelling above him on
the eastern edge of the scrub, and a stone-
throw off the Casino-Coraki road, was built
on high stumps, 12ft. off the ground. It
was reached by ladder. The excuse for this
elevation was that the owner wanted to see
if cockatoos were on his corn in the morn-
ing without getting out of bed. But Bill
reckoned Sapling Hut had made him ambi-
tious, and he had planned the Hut on Stilts
as something equally original. He chose a
bunch of trees for his purpose, sawing off
the tops of those he wanted for uprights,
and when these sprouted new tops his. hut
was almost completely enshrouded in foliage.
It proved a great attraction for birds and
’possums, which kept him from feeling
lonely.
A mile below Sapling Hut, at the. junction
of Tomki Creek and Richmond River, was
a place owned by some timber-getters, which
was mostly left in charge of a caretaker. Its
foundation consisted of three big pine logs,
laid a few feet apart, and decked with pine
slabs. The walls, built thereon, and the roof
were also of pine. It was a cosy, high-and-
dry hut —until a big flood came down one
night. The startled caretaker was awakened
by a heavy bump, splashing of water below
deck and scraping of bushes on his roof.
Looking out, he found his address had shifted
into a patch of dense scrub, having navigated
a wide hollow where a backwash had kept it
out of the current. It was returned next
day by means of a punt, ropes and a bul-
lock team to its original site and tied up.
When the pine scrub was cut out the
foundations of Log Hut were added to. the
last raft for the mill. Stump Hut disap-
peared in a bush-fire; but Sapling Hut re-
mained until years after the river frontages
of Tomki run were cut up and sold.
There was a good deal of the aboriginal
about Sapling Bill so far as habits were
concerned. His bed was mostly ’possum rugs,
and roast bandicoot and kangaroo-ham were
often on his table. His scrub surroundings
provided him with many a tasty dish that
his neighbors despised.
The night we sat round his fire on pine
blocks a 12ft. carpet snake slipped down the
chimney and dropped partly in the fire and
partly on the sleeping dogs, which bounded
out so spontaneously that they only woke
up afterwards. There was a unanimous
rush for the shovel; but Bill calmly waved us
aside.
“Don’t touch it,” he said, taking a toma-
hawk from his corner. “I always like to
kill my own.” ;
After chopping its head off, he drew it
clear of the ashes and examined its burns and
general condition.
“He’s a beauty, ain’t he?” Bill. commented
joyfully, almost caressing the wriggling car-
case. “I’m afraid he’ll crack along there,
though, where he dropped on the coals.’
“Did you want the skin?” somebody asked.
“No; skinnin’ spoils ’em.” said Bill.
“Cooked in their jackets, they’re tender an
white an’ sweet like chicken.”
He turned it about a bit more while we
st&rcd.
“As it’s partly roasted, I may as well
finish the job,” he remarked presently, and
with that he made a large round hole in
the hot ashes and carefully coiled the snake
in it. afterwards covering it like a damper
“You don’t mean to say you’re goin t°
have cold snake for breakfast?” one of his
visitors exclaimed.
“Just as good cold as hot.” Bill answered.
Carpet-snakes were numerous. on Tomki
Creek then, and frequently got into houses
at night, especially Sapling Hut; but they
soon became very rare. It was said that
Sapling Bill ate them all.
E. S. SORENSON.


. {act * abo»»
. lß obßoy”-^ eare recot d,of^cb
> d ’s sbeep-* ear,nS Iteady-
■jl— - tk :%o- - d c fi ;;
1 , tor F tanU h of 5 9 ’ 606
lilaide, °° an d 1 »“ l
r„« *■£ - st -
1 ’ wvhest tatty « as ° average
the Yugk eS 9954 sbeep> 311
the l2®eo*°'* acWal working ‘
of ** P «
BC veti Viou Savra ftisb, 3 ’ Rya n,
** 1 daV W 253; fditcbe«. ’
246'. d 239; *°° d f’ h,
~8 . Mcbeod. g. Sa ltroar
233; beb««“®’ „ u . Sav/ab
Slade, Yeing. * l *
-a. Brook*. 282. of *
258, Dr e 4«a ls 9l a t
v Vs v& {otrCX who shore 321
\ish» P «ov?e, v/h rtrt The
, us Jach ** ve ars *B°*
* an '° U (Q.) *° me y „ a verage
M ‘ Ce °1 1549 7- 6d ’ * 38 day*.
WaI ° ear t 6d.P«"'- netl ' t ovret
° f£7o ftve day*’'“ st 7 ere Bbter;
including m achine» o* ed W . a n
weather- T ® 20 . st and, dr "' £l> l 2
*e plant *»* * but -»■
A World’s Shearing Record
with Jfsfeß Machines!
59,606 Sheep Shorn by
12 Men in 229£ hours.
THIS wonderful record is easily understood by any man who has
used Lister Shearing Machines or Lister Engines. These All-
British Outfits have now arrived at that state of. perfection when
nothing but wilful damage will put them out of their stride.
Giving all praise to the shearers, this re-
markable performance would not have been
possible had not the wonderful smooth
running, fast cutting, and unflinching stabil-
ity of the Lister Shears responded to every
demand put upon them.
There is a Lister Shearing Outfit for every
size flock. There is a Lister Engine for
every farm need. Whatever size you buy
the same unvarying quality and never-
failing service is assured. Write for Book-
let and all particulars to nearest of the
Agents shown below.
W/
Australian Agents:
Dangar, Gedye & Co. Ltd., Young St., Sydney
Interstate Agents:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle St., Brisbane.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Townsville.
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD., West Footscray, Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO., LTD., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
MALLOCH BROS., 50-54 William Street, Perth.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ivaly”: A hefty individual approached
the boss. “D’you want a blacksmith, boss?”
“No, not just now. We could do with a
boilermaker, though. Know anything about
that?” “Bet yer life, I do.” “Very good—
you can start straight away, if you like.”
“No, the morning’ll suit me all right.”
“Very good, then I’ll expect you.” The
hefty one, as an afterthought: “Say, boss,
do I bring me own piek and shovel ?”
■ “Suevic” (London) : The threepenny bit
seems to be disappearing from sight in the
Cold Country. When giving you change
at railway stations, post-offices ' and eating
houses the officers ladle out coppers by the
bucketful; but the very respectable sixpence
is the smallest silver coin that one is asked
to accept. The - farthing is still working,
penny postcards now being a penny-farthing
each; and Henniker Heaton’s penny postage
has been put into cold storage, twopence
being the tariff even for home letters.
* * * »
“Windsor” : As a result of minimum-wage-
fixing there are not a dozen shop-assistants
in the whole town ; and formerly one store
had half a dozen. Businesses are run short-
handed by families; even the country news-
paper. Except at contract, the hired person
is a rare survival on farm or orchard.
Machines have been called in by the former
employer to help him do his own graft. And
the young men drift to the city—where there
is loan-money and paper-money and an un-
born generation to live upon. Truly we
build for a smash.
* * * *
“To Po”: A Northern Vic. wheat-farmer,
sandwiched between cattlemen,, blasphe-
mously and toilfully, yet accurately, fills up
his own income-tax papers. In reporting
“Horses” as numbering 12, he left “Natural
Increase” blank. Back came the command :
“Fill this in; the horses must have in-
creased.” His reply: “Haven’t a mare on
the place: don’t like ’em. Thought even a
quill-driver would know horses don’t
have foals. Write ‘ Mares only have foals,'
on a bit of paper, and stick it on a looking-
glass, where you’ll always be seeing it, and
leave me alone.”
“White Leghorn”: As Hughes is rather
deaf, I shout that not a grain of ungristed
wheat should leave this country; for “the
East” will take our surplus flour and pay
for the milling, giving employment to thou-
sands. And the by-products, bran and pol-
lard, will give a living to tens of thousands
more by providing cheap food for poultry,
pigs and dairy cows. The poultry business
is particularly important, because it gives a
living to many who would otherwise be non-
producers. Another way of robbing the soil
of its phosphates is by the export of bone-
dust. Let’s send it as fruit and give the v
orchardist a chance. One result of our fooL
ishness is that the old people are marketing
their chooks, and applying for the pension.
“Awaruite” : My experience in underground
mining is that the Australian-made handle is
superior to the imported article. For sink-
ing its extra weight and strength make it a
favorite with all contractors. In stoping it
is much more reliable, and a greater leverage
can be applied to it for bringing down bad
ground. Its only disadvantage is for rising
and overhead. work, where its weight tells
slightly against it. In the Speck we find a
difficulty in procuring regular supplies of the
good local article: every drummer looks
pained when you specify the plain Austra-
lian gum-stick.
* * * #
Touching a concern that is getting no
better fast: —
There will be no reversion to penny postage, but
a recasting of the telegraph tariff is inevitable.
It is ridiculous that a telegram between Albury and
Wodonga, on opposite sides of the Murray, should
cost 3d. more than one from Albury to Broken Hill.
And something drastic is required to cut down the
amount of frivolous and verbose rubbish now trans-
mitted. We should reduce the minimum number of
words from 10 to 12, thus bringing us into line with
England; the larger minimum prompts people to
use unnecessary words (which help to cause conges-
tion of business) “to get their money’s worth.”
Another commonsense reform would be the cutting
out of the clause by which messages addressed to a
station within 15 miles get a reduction of 3d. This
is simply a sop for the Big City, very few country
districts getting any benefit from it. The argu-
ment, I suppose, is that the expense of delivery
is so much less, but this won’t hold water. I
could give innumerable instances where the nine-
penny telegram does not receive one-sixth of the
handling of a suburban sixpenny message—between,
say, Lakemba and Bankstown, which is dealt with by
about 12 officials in five different offices. Considering
Australia’s financial embarrassments, a fiat rate of
Is. for 12 words anywhere in the Commonwealth
would be a fair thing. There is no justification
for adding to the present inter-State charges while
the Department cannot guarantee delivery on the
day of despatch—in busy times it can’t guarantee
delivery within 48 hours.
* * * *
“Copabella”: Vic. Council of Education
has before it a war-child of some promise,
the offspring of Donald Clark, chief in-
spector of technical schools. His idea is that
each technical school should be encouraged
to provide for the manufacture of some
definite munition of war, and that the Defence
Department give recognition to studies in the
course of training in such manufacture as part
of the compulsory training of students. This
is the best side-line to citizen training yet
suggested, and is capable of wide development
in that it could be correlated with the staple
training-subject in towns associated with
some war activity—for instance, submarines
at Geelong, their base; shipbuilding at
Williamstown; gun parts at Sunshine;
sapping devices at Bendigo and Ballarat
Schools of Mines, and so on.
* * * *
“Dido”: I have just encountered another
quaint phase of flat-life. The flat in ques-
tion is a large one, and was built in a hurry
on run-’em-up principles. A resident on the
third floor, whom we may call Gadd (that
not being his name), and who has an enor-
mous wife, was waited on by the landlord’s
agent the other day. The agent explained
that his mission was a delicate one, but l —
instructions were instructions. “The
fact is,” said he, “we would be very much
obliged if you would change floors with the
Smiths.” The Smiths lived on the ground
floor. Gadd bristled. Why the this, that
and the other should he “hange? He was
very well where he was. He didn’t like the
ground floor. “Well, Mr. Gadd,” said the
agent gently, “if you won’t take the ground
floor we must ask you to leave.” But why.
why?" demanded Gadd. “You know, Mr.
Gadd, that you make things a little —er —
noisy up here at times. Well, sir, every
time you knock Mrs. Gadd down it breaks
flakes of plaster off the ceiling below, and
the people are nearly smothered.”
* # # #
“Dolphin”: There’s talk of reviving Vic-
toria’s oldest industry, which was sealing.
Fishermen allege that the seals are getting
so, thick in place's that they spoil the fishing,
and the Fisheries and Game Department
thinks of issuing licenses to destroy a certain
number of the animals, reckoning that the
value of the skins and oil will make it a
profitable job. On the other hand, some
naturalists like Dudley le Souef, director of
the Melbourne Zoo, are convinced that seals
in a state of nature live mostly on squid and
such things, and that the destruction of fish
by them has been greatly exaggerated. The
main places where seals out on
the Victorian coast are the Seal Bocks and
thereabouts, at the entrance to Westernport,
and Lady Julia Percy Island, near Port-
land. In the old days, when the hunt for
them was the chief enterprise in Australia,
the Straits Islands, which now belong to the
Speck, w T ere the main field of operations;
but a good deal of sealing and a little black-
birding was done on the Victorian coast.
Sealers from Port Dalrymple (Tas.) had a
semi-permanent settlement on Phillip
Island (Westernport) in 1526. and put a
couple of acres under wheat, besides some
maize. Theirs was the first crop ever grown
in Vic., apart from the green peas and other
garden-stuff that Collins’s men raised during
their few months at Sorrento, and the tiny
patch of wheat that Grant sowed on
Churchill Island, Westernport, in 1801.
* * * *
“Cutpurse”: This is the story as the lady
without the fur coat told it to me on her
oath. Men broke in and stole the coat, along
with jewellery and so forth, worth in all
£3OO. She communicated with the police and
nothing happened for several days. Then
she received an anonymous letter which an-
nounced that if she called at a certain house
and brought £2O with her it might be possible
to recover the property. She took the letter
to the police, who advised her to do as in-
structed. She duly paid over the money to
a polite gentleman in a discreet house at
South Yarra. He explained that there were
difficulties in the way, but he, hoped to over-
come them. Since then she lias paid over an
additional £5O, and so far has not seen any-
thing of her property. Thq police advise her
that her only chance is to pay up and look
pleasant, and the insurance co. is waiting on
the doormat for a refund when the goods are
returned. It looks as though it would have
been cheaper just to be burgled and let it
go at that.
* * * *
“Black Bonnet”: Mangoes, which grqw
to perfection in the Cook district (N.Q.),
are a splendid fruit for evaporation—
quite as good as apples or apricots.
We take the fruit when barely ripe,
and, after peeling, cut it into shreds,
which we spread on a wire-covered frame in
the sun. Turned occasionally, and put under
cover at night, the chips take about a week
to thoroughly dry, and are then packed in
air-tight tins, to provide delicious stewed
mangoes in the off-season. What ,a fruit-
growing centre Australia could make of this
neglected district! We could supply th<
whole world with marmalade and canned
pineapples, not to mention evaporated man-
goes and chutney. The land is practically
unoccupied, thousands of square miles of
prolific soil wasting for want of common-
sense legislation that would induce and pro-
tect settlement. Between Cooktown and
Cairns we have a glorious climate —no
frost, no drought; one of the most beautiful
and fertile countries on God’s earth; a white
man’s land: a land of mountains and val-
leys, covered with scrubs containing rare
timbers, of well-watered flats and rushing
mountain streams. One hears from the
poor south of a scarcity of territory, of
would-be settlers being unable to obtain it!
Who is to blame for the shameful neglect of
opportunities that leaves such a country
idle?
THE MERRY-GO-ROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of late I am assured, alack !
Upon the best advices,
That Prices are on Wages’ track
And Wages are on Prices’,
Each chasing each from week to week;
In getting oof (which all men seek)
Each proves the other’s aider,
Whilst Middle Class, grown poor and lean,
Who once much better off has been,
Is caught and squeezed bone-dry between
The worker and the trader.
Poor Middle Class, whose means of old
Preserved him from repining,
Now sees his notes (he sees no gold)
In value still declining.
For him, no hope to make a rise
(Save one day to the cloudless skies)
His bitter grief assuages:
He mourns the waning of his Pound,
As, wond’ring whither they are bound,
He views them going round and round—■
The Prices and the Wages.
No Government, it seems, can stop
This mutual pursuing;
They’ll both go on until they drop,
Then mischief will be brewing;
And ere the troublous time is past
Poor Middle Class will breathe his last,
And’ Bolshevistic raiders,
Of common moral sense bereft,
Will flourish for a while on theft—•
No work for workers will be left,
Nor customers for traders.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
<■ 1 -|
Mi’ - ’
r
■
7
i
?
B.S.A. FITTINGS are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don’t be put off with
“pattern fittings,’ but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.'
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), »
Australian Buildings,
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the Three Piled Rifles
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
TRADE MARKS
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


Warns Women Against
Use of Soap on Hair.
Nearly all soaps and ready-mixed shampoos
—even the most expensive—contain too much
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
scalp and makes the hair brittle.
Really the most elegant and safe thing to
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—but is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things.
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces last you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it through—thoroughly. One
or two teaspoonsful is plenty to create a big
quantity of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully and rinses out easily.
The hair dries quickly and easily, and comes
out brilliant, soft, fluffy, wavy and fresh as a
daisy, looking much thicker than it actually
of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. Ancl yet
It loosens and carries off every bit of excess
oiliness, dust, dirt or dandruff scurf.
IMPORTANT. —Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, as recommended above.
Lift that Corn Off with the Finger-tips
Just a few drops of this New Ether Drug, and Corns or
Callouses Loosen So They Lift Right Off.
■
X
This is a wonderfully simple
and easy way to gain freedom
from your pestering corns and
callouses. Touch a few drops
of Frozol-Ice right on to the
heart of a sensitive, pain-
throbbing corn, or over a
tough, sore callous. It dries
at once. The ache
vanishes as if into
thin air. The corn or
callous next starts to
shrivel and wither up.
and soon it can be peeled
off with the finger-tips,
you'll get enthusiastic about
right quickly. It never inflames nor even
irritates good, healthy flesh surrounding a
corn. You feel not a single twinge of
pain in using Frozol-Ice, nor afterwards.
Girls, and men too. who wear fashionable
footwear, will hail Frozol-Ice with delight.
Save a corner on your dressing-table for
Frozol-Ice, and never let corns torture you
ajfain.
True Frozol-Ice is obtainable from all
live chemists. The genuine product can
always be identified by the name “Frozol-
Ice” on the green, printed carton contain-
ing bottle, with glass-rod dropper.
ASK FOR FROZOL-ICE AT
CHEMISTS.
This Simple Rule
Soon Strengthens
a Delicate Stomach.
It really is unnecessary to dose yourself
with pepsin pills or artificial digestives, or to
live on a miserable nursery diet, if you will
observe one easy rule you can eat the hearty,
nourishing foods that your appetite craves
and your body needs. That rule is to take a
teaspoonful of Salix Magnesia in a half-glass
of hot water with each meal. Salix Magnesia
is non laxative, and and possesses
medicinal qualities that promptly overcome
impaired digestion, fermentation, acidity,
catarrhal conditions of the stomach, gas, dis-
tress after eating, and other stomach dis-
orders. As magnesia is prepared in various
ways, be certain to insist on obtaining it from
your chemist in the Salix form (in powder or
compressed tablets form), especially recom-
mended for stomach purposes.
Buffalo Hunting on Foot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE big bull sank to his knees as the
heavy bullet from a Martini ploughed
its way through the thick hide and
mass of flesh and muscle, a second finished
off the work, and another hide was added to
the buffalo-hunters’ bag. The roaming herd,
now charging through undergrowth and'
jungle, would be short of a leader that night.
Buffalo-hunting in the Territory provides
a profitable occupation for a number of men
who are willing to lead a hard and adven-
turous life for a few months of the year.
The shooting begins immediately after the
wet season—say about May—and continues
till Novembei 1 , when the rain starts again
and all work ceases.
Only the hide is taken; the huge cai’case
is left to rot and be devoured by wild dogs
and the birds which circle above a kill,
ready to pounce down as soon as the skin-
ners have finished their work. Yet buffalo
beef when taken from a young animal is
surprisingly palatable, and the tongue is
quite a delicacy. The waste of shooting
for hides only is appalling; but the buffalo
is a wild, obstinate animal which refuses
to be droved. Its heavy body crashes through
fences as if they were matchwood. The only
way to domesticate the animals is to handle
them young. Several of the beasts are used
in Darwin by the Chinese for drawing
vehicles; but the old buffaloes are slothful
animals, nor can they be made to hurry by
any persuasion. There seems to be in them
a perpetual longing for their native bogs
and wallow-holes.
Inti’oduced, so to speak, but yesterday,
the massive beasts, in spite of wholesale
slaying, now inhabit the whole of the true
tropical l’-egions of the Territory. Taking
Port Essington as a centre, they roam as
far as the Daly River to the south and the
Roper River to the south-east; but the coun-
try in which they are found in great num-
bers and are most truly at home is on the
Adelaide and Alligator rivers, which have
low, swampy flanks. On the edge of any
lagoon or swamp their wallow-holes can be
s.een, and if you are lucky you may see one
of them settled down in the mud and water,
only his eyes and nose above the surface.
While I awaited the arrival of Ross Smith
and his brother Keith I visited the shoot-
ing-camp on the edge of the Adelaide River
plains, about 35 miles from Darwin. At
that time of year all the hunting was per-
force done on foot, in and out amongst forest
and jungle ; later in the year, when the vast
plains are dry, it is done on horseback and
in the open spaces. In the main it is not
a very exciting sport; but an occasional
brush with a wounded bull or a “carrier” —
an animal that has been shot before—may
be quite thrilling enough for the ordinary
man.
The hunters’ camp was well back from
the edge of the jungle-fringed plains and
reed-surrounded lagoons which are the favor-
ite haunts of the buffalo. It was a simple
affair, dominated by the boss’s raised canvas
sheltei’. with a kitchen whose queen is an-
other Mary, a lubra skilled in the art of
cooking damper and frying buffalo steaks;
the wurleys a little distance away from
the main camp. The armory consisted of
four long Martini-Henry rifles with cart-
ridge-belts and ugly skinning knives.
We were up at daylight, and the horses
being in, the packs were put on, and we
started away. Ned, an aboriginal veteran
and shooter of 10,000 buffaloes, planned the
programme and led the way out of camp.
We passed briskly through forest country, a
sea of ironwoods, spar-like gums and flowei
ing wattle, till we saw the jungle looming
ahead. Tlie jungle entered, the sun’s rays
ai’e shut out. The towering trunks of paper
bark, fresh-water mangi'ove and other trees
shoot up for 60 and 70 feet, their creeper-
entwined branches forming a roof far above
us. Beautiful palms, with their stately
spread of branches, struggle up for the light,
the thin trunks laced with creepers. Pale-
pink flowers give a touch of color to this
dark interioi-. Beautiful giant bamboos are
set hei*e and there in the moss-covered floor
of this place of ti'opic splendor.
One has a desire to linger and drink in
beauty; but the business of the day is buf-
falo. After a further few minutes’ walk, shafts
of sunlight strike through the canopy, and
we emerge into a. glassy glade fringed with
tall pandanus palms growing densely side
by side. Here our party splits up, ax*rang-
ing to meet a few miles further on. We
cross the glade, and skirt the pandanus,
keeping a sharp lookout for buffalo on the
edge of the forest. Soon < we hear a shot
from the other party, and afterwards learn
that they struck a bull and that one shot
sufficed. Meanwhile we thi’ead our way
amongst the pandanus and undergrowth,
skirting any swampy ground.
Buffalo-wallows and fresh tracks there are
in plenty, but never a buffalo. At last we
emerge from the timber, and there before
us lay the Adelaide River plains, stretching
away in their magnificence, a sea of waving
grass as far as the eye can see. Multitudes
of geese and ducks are wheeling over the
swamps, while in the distance several mobs
of buffalo are seen, safe in their fastness of
bog and marsh.
Having drawn-a blank so far, Ned is con-
sulted as to the best course to take. After
much eloquence we start back through the
jungle and out towards a chain of lagoons.
Emerging on the first lagoon all is excite-
ment as a dozen forms are made out on the
opposite bank —and great is the disappoint-
ment when they are seen to be brumbies and
gallop off into the bush! Approaching the
next lagoon, fresh tracks are picked up.
Excitement bubbles again as seven buffalo are
counted standing lazily in the shade of a
group of scattered ironwoods. After some
manoeuvring, we come up to the quarry
against the faint breeze, and after much
wriggling we get to wkjfcin 50 yards. Then
four Martinis speak almost simultaneously.
Two beasts go down with well-directed shots
behind the shoulder. The rest, gazing
stupidly round, give time for four more shots
to be got in, and two other beasts fall. The
remaining three gallop away. Now the hip-
bone is aimed for, so as to disable the run-
aways, and one is brought down and finished
off with a shot in the region of the heart.
The other two animals make away, and the
crashing of their heavy bodies through the
undergrowth can be heard long after the
eye has lost them.
In a few minutes the hides are off and
placed on the pack-horses, together with
choice cuts from one of the youngest animals.
Six buffalo make the morning’s bag, and
lunch is proceeded with. The boys have a
feast, _ roasting the beef on the fire. The
quantity of buffalo meat they consume is
incredible. But at last even they have had
their fill, and the camp settles down to
slumber till late in the afternoon, when, the
heat of the day over,. the shooting recom-
mences. The two animals which were hit
and got away are followed up. The boys
follow the almost invisible tracks without a
falter. After crossing some damp jungle
country, we pass under a huge banyan-tree,
its long reaching boughs spreading far
and wide and sending down aerial roots to
the ground, and come on the buffalo not 30
yards away—an old bull, with a pair of
magnificent horns, and a young cow. The
cow turns tail; but the wounded bull charges
in one blind rush, only to fall a huge, quiver-
ing heap, with two well-directed bullets in
the head. The cow has also fallen to the
rifle of one of the other boys. We have
tramped twelve miles and bagged the whole
herd.
HUDSON FYSH.
The Professor to the Rescue!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT had been decided to bring the Professor
and his ore-locator up to our mine;
Dester was to get in touch with Prof.
J. Selhem, the owner of the world-famous
ore-divining instrument, and arrange for an
early visit to the claim as a last hope. Argu-
ment had been free and full concerning the
likelihood of an instrument being able to
locate our faulted lode; but as majority
rule was the accepted thing in our syndi-
cate of four, the Professor was to come
despite the plainly-expressed scepticism of
Grey, the silent member.of our party. Dester
and Brown were enthusiastic from the
moment they saw the advertisement, with
myself willing to try anything that would
put us back again on a profit-earning basis.
For many weeks we had been driving and
crosscutting to pick up the continuation of
the ore beyond the fault; and having
extracted all payable stuff in sight it became
a question of getting on to it quickly or sell-
ing up the gear, for our finger-nails were
scratching the bottom of the syndicate’s
money-box every time we had to find money
for a postage-stamp.
In the course of time the Professor arrived
and was treated with due deference. He
turned out to be a little, dark, foreign-look-
ing man, with a large voice, black, flashing
eyes and a talking ability that placed even
Dester at a disadvantage. Quickly making
himself acquainted with our party, the camp
and the mine, the Professor put off detecting
our lost ore until the following day, as he
was tired after his ride in from the rail-
way. He seemed to think it was quite all
right that he should rest despite his fees of
a fiver per day and expenses, but as Dester
pointed out he had our gilt for a three days’
trip, so it was best to let him make his
own pace.
That evening after tea the Professor
opened out like a flower. After satisfying
himself of our possible mental equipment, he
told us all about his instrument and how
his father had come to acquire the principle
in Mexico, where the secret had been handed
down from the old Dons, had been lost,
forgotten, and then rediscovered by his ever-
to-be-remembered parent, who at death had
left his millions to charity and the instru-
ment to his son. Our Professor, realising
the wonderful power within his grasp, had
decided to bring his gift to all those in need
at a paltry fee, “a mere pittance, gentle-
men” ; but having set himself this noble task,
“Not to falter, ever to strive” was the motto
on his wall.
The Professor’s command of English was
wonderful; and having given us a general
description of “the principle of the instru-
ment,” he continued:
“Now, gentlemen, this being perfectly
clear, we can discuss your own problem. To
detect the existence of your lost ore-body—
assuming it does exist, and I must impress
this point, gentlemen—it is necessary to
determine first whether your ore is galenite,
pyromorphite, cerussite or just ordinary
plain lead. If the silver content is high it
adds a complication, which, however, in my
long study of the details of chemical affinity
I have evolved and overcome by a series of
formulae clearly distinct —original—that
cover just such a metallic admixture as
this; though, of course, such impurities as
chalcedony, argentite and dolomite destroy
the effectiveness of the chemical relationship,
and thus lessen the vibratory effort.”
Grey was a wet blanket, as usual. He was
now not only sceptical; he openly advocated
letting our 20 quid slide, firing the Pro-
fessor and getting to work on the north
crosscut in the morning. Receiving no
encouragement, he said he was damned if he
was going to waste time on any fakir, and
if we wouldn’t go to work like reasonable
beings he, anyhow, was going to.
In the morning, after a late breakfast,
the Professor started in to locate our lost
ore, with us three to give a hand and pick
up as many wrinkles as possible. Placing
the detector on ga'lena the Professor
approached our workings with the instru-
ment held in his left hand. After warning
us to be silent, he roamed forwards ancl
backwards over the surface in the probable
locality of the ore shoot. Getting no results
he dived underground, but indications there
being no better he returned to surface. Set-
ting the indicator on pyromorphite this time
he repeated the process, and so on down the
scale of the lead ores, repeating his jazz
over the property and underground at each
change. Hour after hour went by and still
no vibrations were visible.
At crib Grey for the first time showed in-
terest in the Professor's results. Even he
seemed a bit discouraged by the absence of
vibrations, and went off more silent even
than usual.
In the afternoon, with the indicator on
“plain lead,” the Professor got a' slight
vibration north of our workings. Following
in the indicated direction, at about a half
mile away the intensive vibrations caused the
Professor to become very excited. After
describing various concentric circles with
his apparatus and doing certain calculations
he was able to proudly announce that, at
578 feet in, we had a shoot of silver-lead
probably unsurpassed by any deposit in the
Commonwealth. “Gentlemen.” he said, “I
offer you my congratulations.”
A feeling of blankness overcame my two
companions and myself at his announcement;
but the Professor, quick to note our want of
enthusiasm, tried to stir us up with a
description of the probable width and ex-
tent of the deposit and its value. He told
us our lode was genetic, of hydrothermal
origin, possibly slightly altered by sercitiza-
tion on the dolomitic contact. Consulting
his chemical formulae he was able to place
the silver as running from 113 to 141 ounces
per ton. He then laid out with pegs the
general direction of the prospective tunnel
and expressed his deep regret that the work-
ing could not be made shorter.
Grey seemed to have repented of the bad
temper he had shown the previous night, and
after tea even offered to see the Professor
down to the township and the railway sid-
ing. We let him go—he obviously wanted,
after all, to get the strength of things for
himself.
We were all sitting round the fire think-
ing of turning in when he got back. He was
wearing his old chuckling smile again.
“Well,” said Brown fiercely; “open up
and spit it out.”
Grey slowly lit a cigarette. Then he re-
marked :.“Well, while you boobs were poking
round with the greatest invention of the
ages, I poked about in the crosscut with a
pick and had the luck”
“What, the lost ore?”
“Yes, and don’t forget, gentlemen, I be-
seech you, the part played by the vibrations
of the sympathetic collateral”
“Oh, go to blazes!” said Dester. “Let’s
go in and have a look at the old lode.”
AWARUITE.
At the Treasury.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IMPORTANT business takes me up to
Macquarie-street on tbe second of the
month; and there I meet men and
women who have served the State in every
capacity and in every part of wide N. S.
Wales. They know what they are talking
about, or, at any rate, look as though they
do; and they dearly love a good listener,
which I happen to be. The trouble with
most of them is that they tell the same tale
so often; but, as most of us haven’t good
memories ourselves, we pass that over. It’s
easy to listen, anyway, when a fellow has
nothing else to do. And few of us have
who meet at the Treasury on this second day
of the month.
An old lady had a bit of luck. She was
a cleaner—she cleaned Government offices at
4s. a day. Then came “the award,” putting
her on 10s. lOd. the day; whereupon she
turned it up—she was of “retiring age”—and
she has been drawing a “pinsion” of 9s. fid.
a day ever since. One would think she
would be content; but she has a grievance—
she thinks her pension should be raised “the
same as members of Parliament,” for “hasn’t
the cost of living gone up as much for us as
it has for them?”
A retired first-class sergeant of police had
a bit of putrid luck, and “got out on the
measly sum of 18s. 3d. per day, less 3 per
cent.” He knew his end was coming, so he’d
sat for his exam., and passed for third-class
inspector, and Jhen he couldn’t get the pro-
motion—which would have put him out on
255. 3d., less 3 per cent. —because he was
within two years of the retiring age. He
reckons men have been promoted within a
year of the retiring age, and he is a very
wild old sergeant—he’d told the 1.G., or
somebody, just what he thought of “the whole
force, and its mean, dirty ways.” I gave him
my sympathy. There’s nothing else to give
in Macquarie-street.
The monthly pensions paid range from a
modest fiver to as much as £39 10s.; and the
man who, judging by appearances, you think
is going to draw close on the latter amount
often goes nearer the former. But what I
like best about the whole business is the pri-
vacy. The man behind the counter calls the
name in a loud voice ; and when the State’s
derelict who is wanted has succeeded in slog-
ging his way through the crowd, and has
breasted the cedar exhausted, the clerk
bellows out the amount so that it may be
heard at the Town Hall. You feel at first as
though you are expected to be ashamed of
yourself for poling on the country, instead
of dropping decently at your job. But you
either die or get over it in time.
Once I noticed one of my creditors —not
a pensioner—hanging around ; and I asked
the Treasury-man to moderate his beastly
voice when calling the amount of my claim
—a bit over £2o—in future. I struck a
responsive string, evidently ; for he promised
to see what he could do about it. Yet surely
he had heard the same request before;
for creditors are nearly as numerous as
pensioners in Macquarie-street on the second
of the month. You see, we haven’t got
a wages board for pensioners yet, so the
High Cost of Living gets ahead of some
of us.
I’ve made friends with a youth of 87,
who told me—it was the first day we met
—that he had been in the police for 30 years,
and had gone mighty close to capturing the
Governors single-handed. “If,” said he, “the
civilians had kept out of it, we’d have had
the rascals long before we got them; but
outsiders would chip in for a pot at the
blacks, and frighten them away, just when
we were closin’ down on ’em.” “Outsiders”
have become the evil spirits of the old man’s
life. And by outsiders you’ve got to under-
stand not only everybody in New South who
doesn’t belong to the police force, but also
everybody outside New South whether he
belongs to the police force or not. As for
Victoria—well, there was the Kelly gang.
What sort of bushrangers were they? “Why,
I tell you they were babies at the business
alongside our Gardiner’s crowd or the
Clarkes! Had the New South police been
after them they’d have got ’em without burn-
ing so much good grog.” Oh, yes, there were
the Bermagui mystery and a few others that
the New South men hadn’t cleared up—but
it was “these civilians chippin’ in again.”
The old boy has been drawing the pension
now for nigh on 80 years; and I hope he’ll
carry on for the next 20.
YARBUM.


SPARKLETS
are back. ajSain!
yk T last you can enjoy again those delightful Sparklet drinks which
you used to have in pre-war days. During the war the Sparklet
works were making bombs instead of bulbs, but they have now been
demobilised from active service. Your Chemist or Storekeeper now
has a Sparklet Syphon waiting for your use this summer.
So long as you have cold water in the house you can forget the heat when
the Sparklet Syphon gets busy. One Sparklet bulb makes a quart of
delicious soda water in a moment, always fresh, and made at a frac-
tion of the cost of bottled soda. Nothing puts such life into all drinks
as a Sparklet Syphon. Get one from your Chemist or Store to day and
forget the hot weather.
A Message to Old Friends of Sparklets
Thousands of old Sparklet Syphons which have languished in
cupboards since Sparklet Bulbs were not obtainable, are now
being brought to light. Many of them, through long disuse,
are not in working order, as a result of rubber parts perishing.
If you have a Syphon that is out of order we will help you put
it right Free of Charge.
We send you the required parts with
full directions, and it is a simple mat-
ter for you to adjust them.
Don’t fail to enjoy all the benefits of
a Sparklet Syphon simply for the sake
of sending the Coupon shown below.
FREE COUPON for SPARE PARTS
T o Sparklets Ltd., 42 Pitt St., Sydney —
Please send me new Rubber Washers
and Pin for Sparklet Syphon bought
about jp
(Please write full Name Address dearly)
s lS[ame
c 'Address
Only one set of spare parts can be supplied free to one applicant
(SB. 30/9/’2O). ;
. j
»|FI . -1^
* # # # %• %■%
k # # * %%%
> €- #4 f
X'
<\
14
<KI
♦
I
Z^:!-
<St v
f**»m I
*:»
iA* #
'» w 4b> • iit 4#* w
?•* #r* m
i ft. 4 s
W * *• i
|0 „, fll i j
% . ~f . »
ft '- I
» **
■ *
, .<'
} fc
f v ’> J& '•dfmx.i
a
soda xoun


■■■"■■■■■■■!sssS"“s2ss"*S!Ss!s3sSsSS*""""""""
4
£
larss
GO
f C-/VC-
JCA'C-
C AC-
C-A C- |
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND | • j "[_ BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA —Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney ... Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
C-A-C
C-WC
Qyayff-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
HMt Majesty' B “Yes, Uncle »
pf I I ™® ION “Irene”
valace “The Luck of the Navy”
i t 1 J? L , 1 “Too Many Husbands”
77°} T s Moving Pictures
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Gondoliers”
“Mrs. Dot”
£ I \ G s “Three Wise Fools”
Princess's “nqinipt”
Tivoli '“The Gi'rl?or the Boy”
' N , ®all N.S.IV. State Orchestra
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
„ I,nA Moving Pictures
BRITANNIA Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦
The German spy has lost his punch, and
the scratch of the female of the species has
no more terrors. Situations that would
have thrilled in . the war years now hardly
interest, and a stage full of uniforms and that
line naval “breeziness” merely leaves 1920 tax-
payers wondering whether the Navy wasn’t
over-officered. It is fortunate that “The Luck
of the Na*vy” isn’t at Sydney Palace for a
long stay; it is well served by a cap-
able company, but it is cold dramatic
rare which should have been dished up
piping-hot while the U-boats were still out.
t rank Harvey, who helped to make that
other war drama, “The Man Who Stayed
at Home,” hustles about in this as a V.C.
submarine officer; Olive Wilton rather over-
does the sneering as an Anglo-Hun society
hostess; Victor Fitzherbert serves up plain
melodrama as her spy-son inside the sub-
marine service; and Gerald Kay Souper, as
head-spy Schaeffer, finds a whole evening’s
employment in looking sinister. Marie Ney
is attractive as sailor Harvey’s mash ; Lorna
Helms is the sort of Cockney servant-girl
, found in plays and lunatic-asylums ;
Eardley Turner dodders heroically as an old
admiral; arid Gregan McMahon “produces”
in his effective manner. On Saturday.
October 9, Marie Tempest and Graham
Browne are due with “The Duke of Killie-
crankie.”
There will he an overflowing house at
Sydney Majesty’s this Saturday night to
welcome Dot Brunton back. The Office
Meteorologist forecasts that a cataract of
applause will hold up the action of “Yes
Uncle !” for .five minutes.
'!' sjc ijc
“The Man from Toronto” finishes at Syd-
ney Tivoli on Friday night. The same
capable co., headed by George Tully and
Margaret Swallow, will make a fresh start
on Saturday with “Too Many Husbands.”
“Irene,” at Sydney Criterion, is one of
the few shows in the history of the stage
which, beginning with an acid strike, ended
with another of oil. If it stays on a few
weeks longer it will have set up a long-
distance record for the Commonwealth.
At Sydney Playhouse Gerald Griffin up-
roots “The Rose of Killarney” on Friday.
“An Irish Christmas” will be on the counter
the following evening.
* *
Clara Kimball Young looks through “The
Eyes of Youth” at Sydney Crystal Palace
and Lyceum ; she makes an attractive Gina,
“Hamlet," at Mel-
bourne Princess's.
Edward Land or as
Polonius.
with changing back-
grounds that the
stage could only
hint at, but which
the screen shows in
detail. The addi-
tional at the
Lyceum proves un-
convincingly that
“W hat Every
Woman Wants” is
luxury. At Hoyt’s
and the Piccadilly
Dorothy Phillips
fights for her
“Right to Happi-
ness,” only to find
that no one has
more than a short
lease of the delect-
able selection. Fas-
cinating Irene
C a stle, of the
nimble toes and
the magnificent
dresses, stars as
sweetheart, wife,
mother, divorcee
and final re-
fuge for her
wandering husband, drawing him back from
the wiles of the other woman by “The
Invisible Bond” which is True Love—in real
life just about as negotiable as Billjim’s
gratuity. The Spanish Main, cut-throat
pirates, skulls and crossbones and buried
booty fill the remainder of the programme
at Haymarket and Globe, with all the lure
that Stevenson wove into his “Treasure
Island.” Pretty, ill-fated Olive Thomas
laughs her way across the screen at the
Strand as “‘The Flapper.” Pupil at a young
ladies’ seminary within coo-ee of a military
college, ice skating, sledging, ski-ing and the
pursuing male provide Olive • with the
featherweight situations that suited- her
sparkling personality.
“Hamlet,” staged by Allan Wilkie at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday, is longer
than previous acting-versions, inasmuch as
it introduces the generally-disused Fortinbras.
who arrives after the massacre in the final
scene to discover himself fancied for the
throne of Denmark. His entrance gives
Horatio a chance for a last word over the
dead and crowned Hamlet, while the visi-
tor’s warriors prepare to carry off the corpse
on a litter built of their shields and spears.
Phe altered end provides Hamlet with an
impressive exit to slow music and gives King
Claudius and the other deceased a generous
allowance of limelight in the foreground of
the picture. In other respects the produc-
tion departs little from the green-curtained
formality of “Macbeth.” The drapery serves
Wilkie’s purpose of concentrating attention
on the characters, and onlv seems a little
incongruous in the churchyard scene, where
it makes Ophelia’s funeral an indoor affair.
That, however, is only a small item in a gen-
erally successful performance. The rigid
simplicity saves waits in scene-changing, and
with one interval of a few minutes Wilkie
manages to do the whole tragedy in under
three hours.
* * * *
Barring a tendency to rant in tempestuous
passages, Wilkie’s Hamlet is very striking.
He scores many points in the soliloquies, and
has some capital moments with Horatio,
Ophelia and the Players. Moreover, his
bantering ,of Polonius is a fine exhibition
of tolerance to a tiresome old meddler.
Edward Landor’s small stature as Polonius
goes well with doddering conviction of his
“THE LUCK OF THE NAVY” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Admiral May bridge (Eardley Turner) and
the Hun spy-woman , Mrs. Peel (Olive
Wilton.)
importance in the affairs of Denmark. Later
the same actor doffs his Santa Claus trap-
pings for a short spell of foolishness as the
Second Gravedigger, and here again his
work is thorough. Miss Hunter-Watts finds
Ophelia more agreeable to her elocution than
Lady Macbeth. All through she has a wist-
ful sweetness that becomes curiously appeal-
ing in her loony play with the flowers. Vivian
Ldwards’s King Claudius is a big, masterful
monarch who spouts his lines with piercing
clearness. The Queen Gertrude of Miss
Lorna Forbes is also pretty fair, though
she isn’t old enough for Hamlet’s mother.
Jack Lennon has the voice and bearing
required for the Ghost, and Fred Patey revels
discreetly in the gags of the First Grave-
digger. Chris Olgar isn’t an ideal Horatio,
nor is Guy Hastings the best Laertes the
writer has seen. Arthur Goodsall, as For-
tinbras, needs a more imposing presence,
but is otherwise good enough. Of the fail-
ures Felix Bland (Rosencrantz) can share
the prize with Robert Inman (First Player),
whose get-up in one scene suggests an
Apostle of the Scriptures. Roy Workman
(Osric) also deserves a word of reproach
R >r bis efforts to behave with courtly grace.
Wilkie’s next offering is “The Merchant of
Venice.
he six nights’ revival of “The Marriage
of Kitty, ’ at Melbourne Royal, suffers a lot
from the maturity of Marie Tempest in a
part built for a younger woman. All the
same, Marie is a passable counterfeit of the
morsel whom Graham Browne marries to
fulfil the conditions of his uncle’s will. The
way she converts herself from a compara-
tively fetching charmer to a rural maiden of
forbidding aspect is refreshingly • humorous.
Graham Browne repeats in Sir Reginald
Belsize the fatuous noodle who seems ready
to slobber on any emotional provocation.
Ihe actor often descends to clowning when
a quieter style might be expected, but
apparently he cannot make comedy of a
canoodler’s heartaches without drifting into
burlesque. Dorothy Hamilton does better
as the Peruvian widow, though her inability
to produce a honeyed utterance prevents
her being the wheedler the author created.
Ashton Jarry is the gaunt family lawyer,
with an irrepressible clerk wearing the
sunny curls of Roger Barry, and Doris Gil-
ham is a rather massive Rosalie who scores
a few laughs with her cheerful tongue.
Next Saturday the season begins to end
with five nights of “Mrs. Dot.”
:jc
“Three Wise Fools” will go dotty over the
damsel within their domicile for just one
more week at Melbourne King’s.
“The Gondoliers,” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
has improved on
its good beginning,
except in one par-
ticular. A lot of
action is required
of the two little
ladies who snared
Marco and Giu-
seppe into matri-
mony, and their
rather fragile voices
show the effects of
warbling when
scant of breath.
Their rapid duet
of inquiry early in
Act 2 lacks clear-
ness and emphasis
in the delivery,
and their subse-
quent outbreak of
feeling re the other
lady who has come
into their lives is
not so effective as
it might be. The
gay cachuca ap-
pears to have
winded them. But
of Patti Russell’s
bridal song—taken
in very slow time
“Hamlet,” at Mel
bourne Princess's.
Allan Wilkie as
Hamlet.
—nothing too nice can be said. Strella
Wilson, in the Casilda character in which
neither Florence Young of old nor any other
predecessor was so graceful and composed,
is refining her diction and making headway
as an artist all the time; while James Hay’s
rendering of “Take a Pair of Sparkling
Eyes” lays flattering unction to the soul of
every girl who'Tias a pair, or thinks she has.
This Saturday, or a week later, “Patience”
will carry on the good Gilbert and Sullivan
work.
* * t-
“The Girl for the Boy,” at Melbourne
Tivoli, continues to be musical comedy in
the first part and a collection of turns in its
later stages. Also leading features of the
medley portion are, as before, a vociferous
festive pianist and a skilful instrumentalist
of the banjoic order, assisted by a lady who
is irreverently addressed as “Red,” owing to
the auburn complexion of her hair. Bailey
and Cowan are the energetic gentlemen of
the trio, and the effect of their most furious
assault on their respective instruments is
enhanced by artless bobbing up and down
whilst at work. Listening to them is so
exhausting that the method of Miss Lee
White, when she next happens, reminds one
of a peaceful sunset after a day of storm.
He si= He sfs
The coming of Conan Doyle to Melbourne
is announced, and the Playhouse has been
booked for three lectures—October 5, 7 and
9. The Playhouse is not an immense build-
ing, so the enthusiasm of spookists, combined
with public curiosity in regard to the parent
of Sherlock Holmes, should make it advisable
fbr intending visitors to secure front seats in
advance.
* * Sic Si!
“Leave It to Me” gets the popular vote
at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week. The yarn
deals with photoplay life in Dollarfornia,
and has the taking William Russell as its
most active spirit. The second favorite is
“Hugon the Mighty,” an outback thriller
with Munroe Salisbury behind the biggest
fist. At the Majestic adoring flappers are
gazing miserably on the ghosts of two dead
stars—Olive Thomas and Clarine Seymour.
Olive is the doleful captive of “Love’s
Prisoner,” and Clarine capers as a dusky
goddess in a South Sea frenzy, “The Idol
Dancer.” At the Melba Grace Darmond is
trying to reveal “What Every Woman
Wants.” The revelation is generous, but
not convincing.
** * *
“Maytime” has had a welcome revival at
Adelaide Royal. Specially notable are the
fine acting of Leslie Holland in a stronger
part than he usually gets, and the great
advance. made by Gladys Moncrieff. Roy
Redgrave now has Sydney Stirling’s old part
of the unpleasant husband who shares with
them and Roberts the unforgettable finish of
Act 2, and Nell Payne is promoted to the
part of the lady who catches Roberts on
the rebound. B_y the side of this piece,
“Katinka.” with its knock-about humor, is
thin stuff, but Florence Young and Welch
romp through it with success and it is
rsra rss, 4
ave closed. In pS„°VW?nd.SLh’ “has
to Bive morning sessions also of ‘“n .with
the Dance, a powerful but happy-endin^
lustraHa“dMma d - COUI)IeS - At best’s an
future \r;?nh r P ro . mise d f or the near
drama' ewis « » a mine-explosion
diama at the Pav., which jumps a genera-
te* 1 Pala?s aC ßov fl i PoWer 5 ul close ' Eslick at
;{?® * a u Rojal continues to find about
a reSh S X Ar S - S a week for Jazzing. Daisy
SftcS dy and , Molsei witseh, possibly the most
a f DDtform rie h C ° Uple ho ever ste PPed on
a platform, have moved on. And nothinsr
has been more popular than the “Thousand
n/Thp <?tntl Cert i, annual demonstration
ot the State schools, at which action-songs
in co ,l tume reveal the wealth of talent await-
ing the opera choruses of the near future
A new 1 ecord in flying for show purposes
was planned in August in connection with
the simultaneous start of three “Clm Chin
Chow” companies to tour in the Cold
Country. Two of the management witnessed
the opening matinee in Belfast, flew across
ta £ lac *Pool (Lancashire) for the first act
° f v u and then ’ in the late daylight of
an Lnglish summer evening, skimmed away
to Rhyl, in Wales, for the last act of No
o company.
“Harnfat”: It occurred in a small town
when the rain was coming down in sheets.
The company was hanging about the stage,
waiting dispiritedly for the verdict to plav
or not to play whilst the manager glued his
eye to the spy-hole near the prompt
entrance to see if the house grew any less
empty. “It’s all right, ladies and gentlemen ”
he proclaimed at last, “we play! And you
need have no fears to-night about the audi-
ence. We outnumber them.”
Sara Allgood drops a few lines, but first
of all a tear over the death of the beloved
Yen, her Chinese toy-dog. She tqlls with
modest delight of how playwright • Lennox
Robinson has engaged her to lead in his new
play starting in London this month; and of
how the famous Abbey players wanted her to
spend a season with them, but the two engage-
ments clashed and the Abbey has to be post-
poned. Sally loves Dublin more than ever;
and, in spite of the hair-raising cables, life
there appears to go on much as usual.
“V.V.”: Genevieve ..Ward's reappearance in
London coincided with an unsuccessful
revival of “Forget Me Not” in New York
with Adelaide actor O. P. Heggie miscast as
the vengeful Corsican. Miss Ward had to
fight for possession of Herman Merivale’s
play at the outset of her career, and won
lawsuits against Wallack’s Theatre, N. York,
and Archibald Clavering Gunter, the author
whose version was deemed a plagiarism. It
was after these fights that Genevieve electri-
fied Australia with the piece. TVlerivale, by
the way, is said to be in an English sana-
torium.
“Front Stalls”: The Williamson-Tait
coalition has got the public guessing. Play-
goers like to know what to expect for their
money, and just now it is never sure whether
it is getting a Tait show or a Williamson
show. Up to date there’s been no such thing
as a Williamson-Tait show. The disastrous
failure at Sydney Palace of “The Blindness
of \irtue” was due in a measure to the con-
fusion caused by advts. beginning: “Lessees,
J. N. Tait; direction J. C. William-
son.” The popping of one firm’s attractions
into another firm’s theatres has the effect of
making the suspicious patron pause at the
box-office and wonder where the catch is.
Until the two firms advertise boldly “A Wil-
liamson-Tait attraction” playgoers will have
no great faith in the coalition; present indi-
cations point to a policy of watchful waiting
on the part of both sides to the contract.
“8.J.” (London) ; Somerset Maugham
has obtained large helpings of free advt.
for his new play, “The Unknown,” by the
simple expedient of shocking the religious-
minded, just as did Pinero when “The
Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith” threw the Bible
into the fire. Maugham sets out to show
how war has waged a successful offensive
against religion, and gains his biggest
(though comparatively cheap) effect by mak-
ing a mother who has lost two sons in
the firing-line exclaim: “Who will forgive
God? Not I! Never!” His hero, too,
turns atheist after his cobber has been
slaughtered by the Huns. A large press
controversy is raging about the play, which,
to an unbeliever, seems neither y§ry novel
nor especially gripping. Maugham has been
accused of “jazzing with the eternal veri-
ties,” ■which merely serves to convince this
writer that all forms of jazzing are a bore.
“Religious drama” is threatening to become
fashionable in London. “The Garden of
Allah,” with its conscience-stricken monk, is
attracting large crowds to Drury Lane, and
the hoardings are already plastered with
posters for “The Wandering Jew,” which is
to open with the Crucifixion.


ZENITH FURNACE COMPANY
DULUTH. MINN
SPECIFIED:-GOODYEAR BELT
54 —// PLY CONVEYOR BUILT TO MEET CONDITIONS
32 OZ. DUCK Az TOP, He PULLEY COVER
MA TER/AL ~ BITUMINOUS COAL CAPACITYI2OO TONS PER HOUR
SPEED 500 FT. PER MIN. INSTALLED -APRIL 28.1916
AMOUNT OF MATERIAL CARRIED TO DATE-2.000.000T0NS
734'
LOADING HOPPERS
1
60' x 63"
}o
f, | \"0 o D —o O O O O O — o —o —u u —O —O u u u —u U" U U U' U U —0 —o r
i.*r U O O n — U H 1 -■ fj 1 if
♦ 4 -60" x 63"
STORAGE
TAKE UP
BELT CONVEYOR
TANDEM DRIVE
60*63" LAGGED
200H.P. MOTOR
Whatever halves loading and unloading
time is a great economy factor-
COAL IS UNDOUBTEDLY “BLACK DIAMONDS”
TO-DAY. And, since the cost of the staple is so
high, economical handling is the more imperative.
Therefore, the following story of the right belting
installation is pregnant with valuable suggestion.
THEY UNLOAD A 10,000-TON CARGO of coal in
from 10 to 12 hours at the Zenith Furnace Com-
pany’s dock in Duluth, Minn., with the aid of their
specially built Goodyear Conveyor Belt. To do the
same job used to take from 20 to 24 hours. So the
economy of the great belt tells in money saved by
swift and trouble-free conveying and in quick clear-
ance of the boats that have to make- every hour
count in the limited season on the inland seas.
THE LONG LIFE AND OPERATING ECONOMY of
this conveyor are striking tribute to the value of
scientific analysis in the specification, design and
construction of a belt to the particular duty required
of it. This belt was built and installed on the expert
analysis principle which is the working method of
the G.T.M.—Goodyear Technical Man.
EVERY SERVICE CONDITION was carefully ana-
lysed, with Zenith Furnace Company officials co-
operating in furnishing operating data. The
conveyor is troughed and driven by a 200 H.P.
motor, with gear and clutch arrangement regulating
the speed, sometimes at 300 feet per minute, usually
at 500 F.P.M. The drive is tandem, with lagged
pulleys. Head, tail and drive pulleys are all 60in. in
diameter, with 63in. face. Troughing idlers are spaced
three feet centre to centre; return idlers, Bft. 3in.
The belt itself is 1,525 feet long, 54 inches wide, 11-
ply special construction throughout, with 7/32in.
top cover and l/16in. bottom cover.
ITS STAUNCH, GOODYEAR CHARACTER is best
revealed by its condition in this, its fifth, season,
after having carried more than 2,000,000 tons. The
average wear on its specially compounded cover is
one sixty-fourth of an inch. Only a high grade cover
stock such as Goodyear Conveyor Belts have could
resist with less than 10 per cent, wear the weather
and abrasion conditions that this belt has withstood.
THE QUALITIES OF GOODYEAR CONVEYOR
BELTS are summed up in ability—ability to carry
the tonnage, to resist abrasion, to work steadily
under varying atmospheric conditions, to set up new
records for economical conveying, to operate with a
notable freedom from trouble, and to last a long
time.
IF YOU HAVE A CONVEYING PROBLEM it is to
your advantage to have the G.T.M. analyse it with
a view to your profit. Write about it to The Good-
year Tyre & Rubber Company of Australasia Lim-
ited, Sydney.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH.
mm
' jSBBSSBI
wmmm
. , ■■■■ ■
V U
t ~ ■
“*• - ■
G • VALVES • -i
-' ■■ fasti


The Appeal of Quality
The appeal of Quality was never so forcible as it is to-day—
particularly in Diamond Jewellery. Talented artists created these
designs, and the cleverest Diamond Experts selected the Stones.
Call at any of the Stewart* Dawson Establishments and inspect their
beautiful assortment of Diamond Designs, which is continually
being added to.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS, Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN, LONDON.
WRITE FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO (Amt.) Ltd.
The World=renowned Jewellery Firm.
E6o6 —Fine Quality Diamond Set Platinum and 15-ct.
Gold Flexible Bangle, £37/10/-
ti.l7B—Choice Design Fine
Diamond and Platinum
Circle Brooch, £l7/10/-
K992—Fine Diamond and
Platinum Circle Brooch,
£lB/10/-
'E6O8 —Very Artistic Design Platinum and 15-ct. Gold
Flexible Bangle, set Fine Quality Diamonds, £35
Bast Quality Case supplied with each Article
From Poverty Point to Luxury— a meal at the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Dining Room 4e luxe, Circular Quay,
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Stargazer”: I see that Wilkie talks in
Melbourne about a permanent Shakspearean
company. I do not recollect a Shakspearean
revival that was not accompanied by similar
talk of the enthusiastic management warmed
by the first glow of an apparent success. But
never once did the apostle of the higher art
talk in the same vein a few weeks later.
“Don’t cry till you are out of the wood,”
should be intrepreted for the use of
theatrical persons “Don’t skite till your
season’s through.” It is a sad reflection, but
the bitter truth is in it. While many’Shak-
spearean seasons have opened with fine pro-
mise, most of them have closed in compara-
tive gloom, and we have not got our per-
manent Shakspearean company yet. The
moral seems to be that we like Shak. in
moderation.
“124” : Within a few years three render-
ings in drama form have been made of the
Jekyll and Hyde story—one in the legitimate
in which 11. B. Irving starred; two in pic-
tures, the second of them now on circuit.
All fail. Each dramatisation has madp Hyde
“The Luck of the
Navy ,” at
Sydney Palace.
Frank Harvey as
Lieut. Clive Stanton,
V.C., R.N.,
grows suspicio us.
a mere bestialised
caricature of the
cleanly Jek y 11 ;
Stevenson insisted
that he was, an-
other and totally
different ego, even
in outward form.
The three Jekylls
have been different:
Irving's was a man
of the wor 1 d,
attached to an
altogether u n-Ste-
ven sonia n wife; the
first Yank film
made .him an Ala-
bama Congressman
right down to frock
coat, string tie
and impossible hat;
the present film
depicts him a cross
between a Ouida
dream and the
Stranger in “The
Third Floor Back.”
The Hyde in each
case is an un-
washed, uncombed,
finger-twisting, gib-
bering degenerate,
whom even the rawest) police-recruit
would run in on sight. Not a tenth of
the movie audiences that gloat over the
double-role shockers have read the book ; so
why disturb Stevenson’s long sleep by tack-
ing his name to the screened parody?
“Beaky” : Some Chatterer (B. 16/9/’2O)
objects to the Hunter-Watts nightie in
Lady Macbeth’s sleep-walking scene. He
(or she) asserts that the “Lady Macbeths
of mother's days used to somnambulise in ’a
white nightie, but the restless lady at the
Princess’s slumbers in a dressing-gown,
seemingly.” As a matter of fact, Mrs. Mac
should wear a dressing-gown in that scene.
Doesn’t the Gentlewoman say (Act V, Sc. 1,
L. 6), “I have seen her rise from her bed,
throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her
closet”... .The acting edition of Nance
O’Neil, one of the Lady Macbeths of mother’s
day, has a pencilled note beside this scene to
the effect that “nightgown” means “dressing-
gown.”
“0.K.”: Sooner or later some broad-
chested young Australian who has music in
his soul will blow big money out of a cornet
on the concert platform—already there are
promising performers in the Billjim street
bands. In the dramatic and musical advt.
columns of London papers one reads of an
occasional cornet soloist being open for con-
cert and garden-party engagements, though
there doesn’t seem to be anyone with the
reputation of a grand-master of the instru-
ment It seems to me this country has the.
best material and climatic conditions for
making cornet music of the very best; yet
no local talent has been developed in that
direction.' Big-chested fellows, with voices
of poor quality, take the trouble to become
indifferent singers instead of adapting their
lung-power to the needs of a cornet, and
learning to blow pianissimo more delight-
fully than they will ever be able to warble
it. The demand for first-class cornet-playing
on the platform or at garden parties is lack-
ing only for the reason that the public doesn’t
get it. When we have a Howard Reynolds
we will wonder why he was so late in
arriving.
“Silas” : In an earlier grand op. company
the chief soprano was
an extremely buxom'
Italian dame of about
40. She was in the
midst of a popular
solo, when she trod on
a trap-door past its
prime, which let go
under the abnormal
pressure, and with a
shrill scream the lady
sank to her’ waist, and
there she stuck. In-
stantly three hefty
Dagoes fastened on to
the lady and endeav-
ored to tug her out.
They had no success,
but persisted. After a
minute or two the
manager walked on,
holding up an impress-
ive ( palm. “Qx-cus-a
me,*’ he said. Then,
pointing impressively
downwards: “The tree
goot fellow below dey
are pullink too.”
RAY WHITING,
the poster artist, of
Melbourne.
“Ike Pagliacci” : Ben Fuller followed liis
singing-parson engagement by booking Bessa
Sankey, dramatic actress, and the Ventura
brought her to Sydney the other day. The
little lady is a niece of Ira D., who boosted
hymns in partnership with Brother Moody,
and her slim young figurq has already
careered across most Australian screens as
the heroine of various blood-curdling Essanay
movies. McKee Rankin put her on the
speaking-stage, Oliver Morosco provided her
with opportunities, and Broadway saw her
last year as star in the white-slave thriller,
“The Traffic.”
“Old Pot” : G. W. Anson, one of the finest
comedians and character-actors Australia
has seen, has gone west in his 73rd year,
lie came to this country in 1885 with Flor-
ence Wade and Henry Alleyne. The season
was opened at the New Opera House, Syd-
ney, “Blow for Blow” and “Grimaldi” being
the attractions. It was a failure, not even
the genius of Anson saving it. The fact was
that the memory of Fred Marshall in these
plays was still too green. Anson was snapped
up by the .Firm and played a round of char-
acters in the stock company. He set a new
standard of comedy-acting, and displayed a
depth of pathos in “Hazel Kirke” that rather
took playgoers’ breath away. The stage .Tew
was scrapped by him, and he sketched Heb-
rews as characters, not caricatures. He
seems to be best remembered as Eccles in
“Caste” with the B. and B. Co., but his
Posket (“The Magistrate”) was a most
artistic piece of acting in a bill full of stars.
George Bryant, one of the co., describes
Anson as the finest actor he was ever asso-
ciated with. On returning to England
Anson played anything and everything, and
was highly commended for a grand study of
Nero in “Quo Vadis,” a part entirely out of
his line. His father. John William Anson,
was a capable comedian, and appeared with
great success in a range of characters from
Baillie Nicol Jai’vie to Falstaff. He man-
aged theatres in Inverness, Dundee, Perth
and Montrose. George made his entrance
into the world in the last-named town, and
his first appearance on the stage in Inver-
ness as an infant of three. He- sang “Hot
Codlins”- —a ditty which had a good deal to
do with the early success of the late Frank
Thornton. •
“Harrison O.”: The occasional Australian
theatrical manager who helps to defray ex-
penses by an advertising curtain has come
in for a good deal of criticism, but compared
with some of his Italian brethren he is a
sensitive soul. I spent a Sunday evening at
a Turin music-hall which was one blatant
shriek urging the world, the flesh and the
audience to use Beppo’s toothpaste and Gari-
baldi’s corsets. The interior “decoration”
was carried out in tiles, and the walls, pillars,
and even the proscenium were covered with
advertisements; some took the form of ugly,
tiled mosaics, but the majority were even
more hideous posters. There was scarcely
a square inch of the place that was not an
offence to all but the totally blind. And
the strange thing is that the audience which
tolerated this was rather a discerning animal.
It smoked and drank during the first few
minutes of a turn, and if the performer was
a dud hastened to acquaint him or her
with the fact. In regard to the really-good
turns and the really-bad ones there was a
pleasing unanimity, and no less pleasing was
the healthy division of opinion concerning
the fair-to-medium ones, of a kind which
would be treated with a tolerance erring on
the side of mercy in Australia. None of
these performers were allowed to leave the
stage under the impression that they had
made a hit. the hissing and applause
being nicely balanced.
“Montague Quirk”: So Numurkah (Vic.)
has built a fine shire hall and decided to
freeze out the touring showman! It always
did all it could to prevent the ghost walking,
and whenever a visiting show put in there
some counter-attraction was hastily arranged.
Of all Vic. towns Numurkah was most
heartily disliked by the barnstormers of my
day, and even now whenever I hear the
name mentioned I hear also the ringing of
opposition church bells rallying inhabitants
to a blue-ribbon army meeting. I don’t
think Numurkah has really frozen the show-
man out. I believe the inhabitants have
grown so parched for entertainment that
they’ve had to supply it themselves.
“Ox” : Drop a tear on the grave of Hal
Reid, whose fountain-pen scribbled its last
in New York recently. He was author of
“Human Hearts,” “At Cripple Creek” and
a hundred other thrillers, most of which
Marlow introduced here, and he shared with
Theo Ivremer. the Australian, the honor of
being the most prolific curdler in the profesh.
Ron Wallace Reid, one of the giants of the
movies, remains to carry on the name.
“Hang-Over”: Left without musical and
other tintinnabulating shows for umpteen
years through ship shortages and railway
strikes, Perth has been flooded with them
these past few months, and all the house
managers are smiling. At stiffen prices than
are said to prevail in Sydney, Perth gorges
on everything offering. “The Passing Show”
has made a hatful for the Firm.
“Hang-Over”: Williamsons could have
secured a fine Ivatisha in Westralia’s con-
tralto, Ivy Turton. Looking like Celia Gil-
lioni, and with Celia’s way of getting the
story across the footlights, Ivy put up a
highly ' creditable performance in amateur
presentations of “The Mikado” recently. But
she scored over Celia even at her best in that
she had a richer and better-controlled voice,
her “Hearts Do Not Break” being a gem.
Miss Turton has now done like many another
Australian languishing for appreciation—
gone to London.
“T.D.M.”: Shakspeare gave the lead to
De Garis, Bernard Shaw and Sheridan (B.
16/9/’2O) in constructing a play within a
play when he. wrote “The Taming of the
Shrew.” It was not original, of course,
for he took the old comedy, “Taming of a
Shrew,” of 1594, and transmuted its baser
metal into gold. Few persons had seen' the
Induction until Oscar Asche introduced it
to Australia. The story of the carousal of
Christopher Sly can so easily be dispensed
with without robbing the comedy of any of
its interest that the practice has almost
invariably been to omit it. In the old
comedy there was a Deduction, or Apologue,
or Conclusion; in this Sly was introduced
asleep outside the alehouse whence the lord
and his party had carried him to the Grand
House, the scene of the play. The tapster
chided Sly for lying drunk there all night,
and added that his wife would give him a
bad time. Sly, recollecting his dream of
“Petruchio and Katherina” —the play within
the play—replies:—
Will she ? I know now how to tame a shrew;
I dreamt upon it all this night till now,
And thou hast wak’t me out of the best dream
That ever I had in all my life....
Shakspeare realised that his own ending
was more artistic, and who will doubt the
soundness of his judgment?
“Private Boxer”: The British stage is
losing George P. Huntley, who paid Australia
a visit 16 years ago. (Who will ever forget
his fatuous Lord Plantagenet in “Kitty
Grey”?) Like John McCormack —and
Huntley is a Dublin man, by the way—-
“G.P.” intends to make America his home
and has decided to settle in Southern Cali-
fornia. So, though Huntley's inimitable
character-portraits may be lost to the spoken
play, we may yet see them on the screen.
“THE MAN FROM TORONTO ,”
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Fergus Wimbush (George Tully) discovers
his sister (Marie Rignold) trying to
damp his love affair.
“Xella”: “How thin is the partition
between tragedy and farce!” moralises “To
Po” (B. 23/9/’2O), in reference to a hap-
pening at Genevieve Ward’s performance of
“Jane Shore” at the Melbourne Royal. The
night I saw the show the audience was very
highly strung by reason of the power of the
wonderful actress, and when she was perish-
ing in the snow for want of food her pitiful
“As ye be Christian souls, give me to eat!”
touched all hearts, till a little girl in one
of the stage boxes broke to the front and
wailed, “Don’t cwy ! Here’s my orange !”
“Norbell”: St. Leon's Circus, with that
good showman “Bud” Atkinson ahead, is
contemplating an excursion to Maoriland.
Bud remarks that it is a big proposition to
transport a circus overseas. “You see,” he
explains, “I can get the greatest living actor
(if there is one) from Melbourne to the
Bluff for about a fiver, but it costs 11 quid
to take a horse over.” St. Leon’s is popu-
lar in the Dominion. The yarn goes that
Henare and Mere were gazing apprecia-
tively at a florid circus poster, and Henare
laboriously spelt out the hair-raising attrac-
tions. “Wirths’ Circus is Coming,” he
read. “The Greatest Show on Earth. Sept.
1.” Then he explained to Mere. “The
greatest show on earth, ’cept one! Course
that means” —but you can guess the rest.
“Orb” : The local undertaker runs a pic-
ture-show at Warracknafieal (Vic.). But
I expect that it was not really of malice
aforethought that the pianist, during an acci-
dental break in the proceedings the other
night, musically advised the noisy patrons to
“Get out and get under.!”
“Orb”: Concerning McKee Rankin’s comic
interpretation of “Macbeth” with Nance
O’Neil in Sydney. He came so perilously
near getting the bird on the opening night
that the management rushed round and tried
to bribe Alfred Dampier to hop in and save
the farce from becoming a tragedy, so to
speak. Alfred pondered the proposition,
and then decided to play the lead “if my
daughter Lily plays Lady Macbeth.” The
management hadn’t the heart to tell Nance
of this stipulation, so Tommy Kingston, who
was doing Macduff, replaced McKee Rankin
as the horror-haunted Thane, and Jimmy
Atholwood became a very convincing Mac-
duff.
From London-:
Daphne Pollard is a boom. She is appearing in
“Jig-Saw,” the big Hippodrome revue, is billed as
an “American,” and was recently accorded a half-
column “special” in the Daily Despatch in which
she was described as the world’s “first woman
clown.” Fred Leslie (he is Fred A. Leslie nowa-
days) has also become an “American dancer.” Bert
Levy, who contemplates a visit to Australia, is
showing at the Palladium. Violet Loraine, one of
the few first-class pantomime importations made by
the Firm of recent years, is now probably London’s
most popular musical-comedy actress —and deserves
to be.
MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night I’ve been to see the play,
And, dear one, I was shown
A little, mincing kind of fay
In dances all your own.
I’ve heard a strange, unwelcome voice
In little song's you sang,
And seen the crowded house rejoice
As once, when you were all their choice,
The public’s plaudits rang.
She wore the dresses that were yours,
She spoke the words you skid.
'Tis years, and still the play endures —
I thought sweet Phyllis dead.
With you she died indeed for me,
And nothing here seemed right:
No scene was as it ought to be —
I do not wish again to see
A resurrection night.
The theatre was as of old,
I had my ’customed place;
’Twas strange that I should not behold
Your winsome form and face.
’Twas strange another voice to hear,
Another dancer view—-
Ah, never more will I go near ;
This Phyllis, at no time, my dear,
Was she a ghost of you !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


HHRHspiPPPg mmmmssm
• N: Jf
■j . j
W’ r^Jm
i
ik
■
■li I ' I
N I - ' i
'•- ■
H
■ ■■
■I
&
'
yt ■ :
-WsSk. > 4i v Jy..
■.
Rub
: :
'• ;
£l.£i
■
••* 1
.._ A£\
V ’ !
gj . ,:
Bf 3,1
■F * v f
■••• :-v:
' " :• ■%«■
»4» ;va«#
■
i!
■
;
:>■• •.'
* fSipi - :
11
NX
<\
t %
m
m
m
\ lit
j JlliP ,
II
iff?
. ■
mwm
i W-
mi
mm-
' • '? ♦
1 1 '
. *
t . - . : ■ ■ ‘
s
iBCTf
wm r
■
tigit
, ,* .
il
.
BR5«»y-..
.••• j
■
Iffili
\ jlj
E
ipM-> *
" I
■•' '
■
, ■•:■■
k
HH| Spil
jWMiiW? -.',
aßHpHppM^aaißS
I "
■HHHHqI
>s||i|Pp! '"Nf- y-I '*
y" V ' •
I' •'•' v
*1 |
MT
Mil
•*
■
llllittlll
iy llli
§§Slg
l i#f«&'.i
■,
¥ ytftvif V- M *>'-’'
smi
g»ii«:i£ ; j:'
ws «l
1y '
j\
' jt>
. ', ■ V.; ' , ;Si
■ m
.
m&w£sm 3§§|g§
. AVi:
• •.:•:■ I
m H
w
.
1 PWWWMWWWP
.
V.
■hpi
it
■ ■t.dglMp
H WMmSsm ••'
■ImBIIBBI ;;: : :; :1.
S
rf5 j -fr 1
mroitg
AUSTRALIAN
s/Jvm Skirt
to 1‘ tfi ish
VC* *X ' ■'> < ■ 1 - ' ioi
' W& 4s
'*. ** v . S^JI
l ■ * ' ‘*•'<3# .
Sfteif.' ip ii ar^g
r ■ .»■ _ 1
• .
? J
n!
fillil
: -
■ ' -
m
Ms
. • ■;
I i-l' ?”v
RPi
f* - ' .
t .Ba s JilK‘‘ fr*'* *. MsSmm* -m. m • • •'Saw
wi : "
• ■<•,' • -.mw - I*a, ■..•• i mf&MMkW. ' « •
« • " mmM
\f'/w' r 'Wj''"'/ /,'. '/ Jfafy/j / if' - f % 'fy''? " "a & ,}' ' ''- ', 5® -S&Si ' v < / s , <«„ « /
, ' ■■■• ■■ .f--'? '
: 1 . . 1•■
* Jn
w$ %>■ ■•f :■ ' ■, «ta4^
I
'
i
€
Purely Australian
Invented by Messrs. W. R. and E. J. Hume,
Adelaide.
Steel from The Broken Hill Prop., Ltd.,
Newcastle.
Cement from The Commonwealth Portland
Cement. Co., Ltd., Portland, N.S.W.
Australian Portland Cement Co., Ltd.,
Geelong, Victoria.
Adelaide Cement Co., South Australia.
Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
Manufacturers of
High-grade Hydraulic Concrete Water-
supply Pipes, of all pressures.
Irrigation Pipes in all sizes.
Culvert Pipes.
Concrete Tanks, Silos, Sleeves for Tele-
graph and Electric-light Poles.
SEND YOUR INQUIRY TO
Head Office—42l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Branch Offices:
Grosvenor Buildings, North Terrace, Adelaide.
Macquarie Street, Hobart, Ta-s.
Town Point, Launceston, Tas.
Home Hill, North Queensland.
Perth, West Australia (now being established).
Brisbane, Queensland (now being established).
vi«o operating at South Africa, India and Great
Britain.
Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
T. S. NETTLEFOLD, General Manager.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & eO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WiIITTy
9
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
■XOIiMFi
All Hotel* and
Licensed Store*
WHISKY
Mild, Mellow, Fully Matured
—a Liquor you’ll Appreciate
1 or the Epsom one horse stands out —Rem-
mon, with 7st. 71b. If the weights were recast in the
light of recent running he would get another stone.
He has moved up and down on the cards, due to the
tongue of Rumor on the subject of his health, but
his trainer says the yarns are baseless. Meantime
Jidfacre, Jack Findlay, Greenstead, Bandurria, De-
monte and Mount Frisco have all been solidly backed.
V/ this lot the first and the last look likeliest.
Mount Frisco is a brilliant miler and is just now
in partipularly good form. Whether lnkpen will
have Elfacre ready can be merely a matter of
speculation. An outsider sometimes drifts into the
Epsom picture, and the trick may. be done this year
lickaroo. He is a big, long-striding customer,
and at the end of a welter at Randwick recently
was unwinding himself at phenomenal pace.
All this excludes Clirysolaus. He spent most of
last week in his box with a big leg. It may stand
last work, but, anyhow, the holiday must put the
grey at a big disadvantage. At his best he would
have been tremendously hard to beat next Saturday.
At Hawkesbury (N.S.VV.) on Saturday
the Lmacre horse Elfacre and the one-time Maori-
lander I inmark were reckoned to have mortgages
the one on the Rowley Mile and the other on the
■Spring Handicap. Elfacre started at two’s, and
evens were taken about Finmark in lumps. Both
were beaten—Elfacre two lengths by the Godby-
owned Demonte, and Finmark out of a place in a
held of seven. But it is a treacherous course and,
as a guide to subsequent running, Hawkesburv events
are delusive. Last year, for instance, Rebus failed
there, just as Finmark did, and won the Metrop. a
week later.
* * * *
A new arrival at Randwick last week was
James Wilson’s Sea Prince gelding Nautical. He
has designs on the A.J.O. Derby, and the stable
believes them to be well-founded. Incidentally, the
Derby looks increasingly perplexing. Strathredole’s
work on the track last week was a long' way below
form, and he has done nothing in public or private
as smart as Syce Knight, who took the Hawkesbury
Guineas on Saturday from Kilkenny Boy amd Glen-
acre. A week x before he was finishing well just
behind Wirraway in the Rosehill Guineas. Syce
Knight is a smart-looking colt, and William Booth
has no doubts about his being able to stay the
Derby distance.
* * * *
Entries for the coming Caulfield meeting
show a remarkable drop from the figures of three and
four years ago, except in two-year-old events, and
a couple of steeplechases. Seemingly there is a
scarcity of good-class handicap horses in Victoria
just now; moreover, a quite considerable number
will be still in Sydney on the first day of the
Oaulfidd meeting. Since the A.J.C. fixture was
shifted from September to October, racing at Caul-
held has lost a little of its old sporting importance,
although stakes have increased and attendances are
bigger than ever. Ten years ago the Cup was said to
be made tor Sydney horses, the winner so often came
from the powerful contingent sent over to scoop the
pool. Prom 1892 to ’97 five out of six winners were
Sydneysiders. Again, from 1905 to ’l3 eight out
of nine Caulfield Cups crossed the Murray. Since
Aurifer took the prize in 1913 Victoria has supplied
all the winners, and last year the three placed horses
all came from one Flemington stable. This year local
talent is not threatened with very much opposition.
The Caulfield Stakes, run on the day the Randwick
carnival closes, will be confined to Victorians, but
on the second day (Wednesday) of the V.A.T.C.
meeting Clirysolaus, Cetigne and Millieme may be
seen in the vv.f.a. event.
• ‘
At Flemington next Saturday (2nd) the immediate
prospects of at least a dozen fancies for the Cups
will be revealed. Eurythmic, if he runs in the
October Stakes, will meet Drumore, Clever Jim,
Queen Comedy, Eusebius, Ethiopian and Accrington,
or most of them. And in the handicaps Lord Setay,
Tangalooma, Red Dome, Frais, the Rover and
others will be expected to have a go if thev are
worth serious consideration for bigger events. * Tne
form at the V.R.C. October meeting last year was a
sure guide to Caulfield Cup running. If Eurythmie
has a mortgage on the event his price will be shorter
than ever when Saturday’s racing shall have disposed
of certain rival pretensions, and confirmed his own.
* *
The death of Daniel O’Dea in Adelaide
has recalled the most sensational dividend the total-
ly 01 ' has ever paid or is likely to pay— £ 808 on
?o S 0 DO . D - hi the Goodwood Handicap of
1881. There is a legend that the owner was on
his way to the Insolvency Court when he chanced
P°and on his worthless outsider, and was saved,
lhe facts were quite different. O’Dea was a well-
to-do sportsman; and it was not he who collected
tne money. The horse was not an outsider, strange
as that seems, having been well backed with the
books. In those old days the tickets for each horse
were exposed, in a kind of box with no front, in the
tote window. A casual visitor named Smith was the
first to take a D.O.D. ticket, and somehow that box
was tipped over and ceased to be visible, so everv-
body else must have thought it a non-starter. As
tor the owner, he was up the course giving final
instiuctions to his jockey, and the gong sounded be-
loi e he got back. So Smith got all the money there
was in the machine. O’Dea had to be content with
hi 3 booked wagers.
.A? .unusual sort of inquiry was that in
wnicb the South Aus. stipes considered the complaint
by jockey Sing against owner Wickens. The crack
colt Hesso failed to stay the course in the Port
Adelaide Guineas, and uncomplimentary things were
said about Sing’s riding. Wickens, feeling sore,
went further, and said the boy had not done his best
to win; on which Sing, feeling still sorer, lodged a
complaint. The verdict was that (1) Wickens had
. 'Vi 2 ' jt wasn,t true i (3) he could pay the
costs of the inquiry.
* * * *
„ Handicap at the Adelaide
Hunt Club s Meeting added another failure to the ’
much-fancied Hesso’s record. Kelly had the mount,
but met with no better luck than Sing, who was
accused by the owner of not trying in the Guineas.
in that race (although bookmakers are prohibited
in S.A.), the Charlemagne 11. colt started at the
prohibitive price of 10 to 1 on. The Ibex horse
Chamois won the Handicap by a head from Stage
v > with Mr Wickens’s colt, who was conceding
them 271 b. and 211 b. respectively, all out in third
place.
♦ * *
.The Eclipse Stakes at the Wanganui
(M.L.) meeting was a great go between Trespass
and Amythas. They ran right away from the field
but the gelding, who suffered badly from influenza
during the winter, was not quite up to the nine-
turiong effort, and the foreigner prevailed
*** * ■
Strymon (Hopoast— Stryx) at a little
better than 2 to 1 was the only horse to win at
anything like short odds at Albion Park (Q.) on
Saturday. This was in the Second Division Handi-
cap. The Purse saw Cinema at 6 to 1 flash first
across the screen, and the Plate was passed to
Bar amor me at 10 to 1. In the latter race, strange
to say, neither Banzhead (favorite at 2 to 1) nor
Soldier s March got a look in.
IN THE BOOM.
THE SCULLER : “It is years since you. even
turned your head my way. How is it
that you are so nice to me all of a
sudden ?”
THE SWIMMER: “You silly hoy! Don’t you
know sculling is coming in again?”
Eighteen boats out of a scheduled 19
were started on Saturday in the Sydney Sailing
Club s General Handicap over the George’s Height-
Shark Island-Clark Island-Taylor Bay course. All sported
ballooners, whilst topsails were hoisted on Keriki
Swastika, Mascotte and H. C. Press. A. C. Roberts
in Desdemona elevated both ballooner and ringtail
Rocket, with Tom Tait on the bridge, was the first
to haul a wind at the mark under George’s Height
which he rounded 15sec. ahead of Hero (G Degan)’
closely followed by Mona (Stan King) and H C
Press (Geo. Press). The work back against ' the
S.S.-E. blow gave the baekmarkers a chance, and
after sailing a great boat to windward Hero was
the first to ease sneets for the lead to Clark Island.
She was followed by 11. C. Press, Mona, Pastime,
Britannia and lloyana. Ballooners were again in
evidence, and a great go resulted in Hero throwing
her boom across first at the turn round Clark, with
Press, Mona and the others in the same order as at
Shark Island. Back to the Taylor Bay mark, Hero
led from 11. C. Press. Degan hauled a wind, but
Press sailed him leg for leg, and finally eased sheets
for the final stretch to Clark Island with a lead of
about a minute. He finished with that advantage,
Mona and Britannia fighting everv inch of the list
lap for third.
* * * *
“D.”: The scrappy reports cabled to Aus-
tralia of the Olympic* games at Antwerp exaggerated
the importance of the U.S. triumphs. Only in
swimming and rowing did the Yanks sweep' the
board; in other branches of sport their success was
not remarkable. In running they just about held
their own with the British team.' Albert Hill, who
won the 800 and 1500 metres events for England,
proved himself the finest middle-distance runner at
Antwerp. The next best was Rudd, an Oxford Uni.
man, who carried off the 400 metres race and was
third tq Hill (whom he had beaten for the English
championship) in the 800 metres. Britain scored
most points in the cycling competitions, and a team
of London policemen donkey-licked the Americans
and all the rest in the tug-of-war. And while all
this was happening in Belgium Ted Ray was cross-
ing the Atlantic with the ashes of the U.S.A. open golf
championship in his suit-case, and Barry was putting
daylight between his boat and Alf Felton’s on the
Parramatta river. It is the dawn of a British
revival in sport.
* * * *
\ ictoria gave X. S. Wales a lesson in
Australian rules football before a Sydnev crowd of
10-,000 on Saturday. The Southerners 'excelled in
high-marking, passing and stab-kicking. For 10
minutes after the bounce N.S.W. pulled together •
but once Vic. got set they romped away, and at
half-time led 61-22. At the end of the third
quaiter the scores stood 77-34, and the game ended’
}a C V, i l3 >f hinds (102); N.S.W., 6 goals,’
10 behinds (46). Many of the behinds were within
a , s S eet J >f P** , «’ of , heu>e sixers - The great kicking
of S. Wotton (S. Melbourne) and L. Ilaggar (Gee-
long) who each notched four goals, and Cliff Rankin
(Geelong) rattled N.S.W. more than aught else. In the
hard ground-work Captain George Haines showed
that he is still almost as great as when he won
the gold medal at the Australian Rules carnival in
1914. For N.S.W. the best were Jack Furlong, J
Lloyd (Riverina) and R. Little.
* * * *
On the East Melbourne ground the second
Association semi-final, postponed from the previous
Saturday, produced a crowd of 14,000, £3BB and
an unseemly row. After a needlessly willing game
I ootscray was five points ahead of North just on
time. Then Considine, of North, took a mark within
kicking distance. He was entitled to his kick, and
if he had got the goal North would have won. So
Scray’s barrackers rushed the ground ; North’s fol-
lowed, and two turbulent pushes started handing out
stoush promiscuously. Police, players and umpires
combined in an effort to clear the ground, but failed,
and the game had to be adjourned for the Associa-
tion to decide whether ’Scray or North wins or
another match is to be played or what. The Law also
had to take a hand in the final argument of- the Mel-
bourne District Ass. at Brunswick, where the locals,
last year’s premiers, went down before Coburg-
-39 points to 48.
• * * *
As a curtain-raiser to Melbourne’s big
Saturday football game, ’Wood Juniors met and
licked ’Varsity by 12 points. All the other clubs
have fallen victims on occasion to ’Varsity; but
the students have never yet been able to beat the
Magpies, either seniors or juniors. When ’Varsity
did secure a winning position last week they lost
it and their tempers, and the umpire had to intrude
and restore order. After that 57,764 enthusiasts
watched the older Magpies demolish the Old Blues
of Carlton. The ground was soft, but not so much
so as to account for Carlton’s failure. ’Wood simply
got into its stride at once, put on a big lead and
was never headed. At one time the Maggies were
45 points ahead, then they eased off and finished
24 points to the good—B3 to Carlton’s 59. The
Blues’ ordinarily brilliant high-marking was not
there: it had gone over to ’Wood; and the latter
also had the pace, the certainty of handling and,
above all, concerted action. Lee’s damaged knee
kept him out, and there were no stars. Twomey,
Hughes, Con McCarthy and Bull Laxton were the
best of an even side. Carlton’s new finds —Clover
and Boromeo- —hardly reached expectations. The best
man in the Blue and White uniform was the captain,
O’Brien. The grand final will be battled out next
Saturday by the teams which met in it last year—
’Wood and Richmond —and this writer holds as he
did last May that Richmond will win.
Joe Symonds had no trouble with Alvarez,
the Mexican, at Sydney Stadium on Saturday. The
latter began, apparently, with the notion that he
could out the Englishman. A hollower delusion has
seldom been entertained in any ring. In the sixth
round Alvarez complained to the referee about his
leg, though that was one of the few parts of his
anatomy that had not suffered punishment. He came
out of his corner for the seventh dead lame, and
performed so miserably that Joe Wallis called the
contest off. Alvarez may constitute a draw on some
lonely estancio of his native land, where the winter
evenings are long and dull, but before an Australian
crowd he is out of place.
* * * *
By appointing W. W. Armstrong captain
for the first Cricket Test the Board of Control has
rather anticipated matters. It remains to be seen if
the bulky Victorian will strike Test form this season.
The selectors, Gehrs, Bean and Collins (the last was
a candidate for the captaincy) will also choose the
for England, and Syd Smith is to go as man-
ager. It is likely that the question of eight balls to
the over will be left until the English captain can
be consulted.. And Douglas will probably be influ-
enced by Warner’s theory that the long over will
militate against the Englishmen—more especially
Parkin.
Armstrong, who is 6ft. 3in. and 18 stone in con-
dition, was born on May 22, 1879. He went abroad
with the Australian Xl’s of 1902, ’O5 and ’O9 ; has
played against England and S’Africa in Australia,
and against all the States as well as M.L. He has
been piling up runs with the Melbourne C.C. in
'on' nor l C lcket s ! nce 190 °. and in his best sea-
Altocetw' SC ° re - d ? 42 runs > averaging 93.55.
h talf Premiership and flrst-elass cricket
wdoke?s_?h °T 2o°oo runs and taken 1100
Australian cricketer U " d P erformance any
* ;
week G rammar championships last
vear landed U /i!°’ ", ho , h f s ftlled out a lot since last
time w? d the , schools’ senior cup for the third
time. He won 100yds. (10 9-10 sec.), 220vds. (23
t’Ote 0 fiin Ix2oy 1 x 20yd j' hurdles (17 2-ssec.), broad jump
better tte,,’ in? 121 b - shot P u tt (42ft. lin., 2ft. lin
d-iff L*!, , h ! previous best). Nothing but the
headwind saved the record book. At
Scots College B. Burge took the 100yds (10
(19seeV se 2U> d S ’- 1 2 \ ?- 10sec ->, 120yds. hurdles
nilint nn d- 1 * Ugh jump and third in 440yds„
piling up 43 points against R. McFadyen’s 32. For
tlie"fisnv°d A ‘ a’ E ! hson (last year’s champion) won
evenfs y t; ”“ le ’ and filled Places in four other
events. Result: 31 points, with G. S. Abbott T3O
points), Calder (28) and Moulton (28) next. Calder
had most wins—high jump (sft. 4in.), 120yds
hurdles and shot putt. ’
* * *
South Yarra snatched the Vic. tennis
premiership from Gee-
long at Grace Park,
Glenferrie, on Saturday.
It was only a win by
three games on the
grand aggregate scored
by both sides in Satur-
day’s doubles match
and the brilliant singles
battle of the previous
week, so the Geelong
team is entitled to
feel well satisfied, con-
sidering that it was up
against the inter-
national pair, Brookes
and O’Hara Wood. On
Saturday the two
champions were fairly
downed by T. and J.
Hawkes (4-6, 6-2,
3-6), both youths
worrying the tiring
Brookes, who had been
given a lot of overhead
play to beat the other
Geelong pair, Keays
and llaird (6-2, 6-1).
South Yarra’s other
duet, Sandral and
Hawthorn, extended the
Hawkes brethren to
three sets before being
licked; but they fin-
ished Keays and Baird
(4-6, 6-3, 0-4) bv
some very pretty
tennis.
JOHN. COCK, Sec.
Vic. Lawn Tennis
Association.
That promising sculler lteg Short landed
the All-comers’ handicap on the Tweed (NSW) on
Saturday Long-markers Tom Price (47see.) and
A^ arl^ e ,. Messenger ( 34sec -) filled the places, with
Alf Felton (scratch) fourth. The previous week-end
Short won the Consolation Handicap at Brisbane and
in the Parramatta Hundred he was second to veteran
George Towns.
* * * *
W hen Ivo Whitton shifts baggage and
sticks to Sydney in a few weeks, the Ma State
capital will be weighed down with the pick of
Australia s amateur golf champions. He reeentlv
won the Vic. amateur title.
* * * *
Tom Howard (Combined Suburbs) and
Eric Apperly (Australian Golf Club) had another
great golf battle at Concord, Sydney, on Saturday,
and Apperly was again on top by two up and one to
play. Apperly lias triumphed over Howard in everv
serious clash this season. Combined Suburbs won
the challenge by nine matches to seven.
Joe Kirkwood added M.L. open professional
golf championship to his belt by defeating Arthur
East (another touring Australian) by three up and
*7° t 0 P la >'- The match was played on the bank
ot the VVaikato, at Hamilton, on a course of 6407
yards. Fourteen started off in the first round: but
most of the dozen M.L. golfers gave a poor display,
the semi-finals, however, were very fine, and Kirk-
wood had a hard tussle to defeat Douglas (Miramar)
by two up and one, while East scrambled home from
Butters (Christchurch) by one up
* * * *
Tim football premiership in Adelaide was
qmckly decided. North disposed of West Torrens
easily. The great rivals of long ago, Port and Nor-
wood, met in the other semi-final, and’ Nor-
woo,.T7bs,olutply of the League since 1912
qualified for the final. It was played in glorious
weather, and North, showing greatly superior science,
especially in the air, won by 9 goals 15 behinds to
lone S 3 behinds. It is their first premiership since
1900. Sturt, premiers of the last two playing
seasons—at the beginning and at the end of the war
were not in the final four this year. Norths are
now sitting back for the championship game with
the Vic. League premiers. They have won 11 local
matches during the season, and lost three. Defence
is their outstanding > feature; their goal-kicking is
strictly moderate.
* * * *
"Old Sport” : The N.S.W. Treasurer has
thought worse of his proposal to extract more revenue
from the bookmakers. Perhaps the idea of levying
more from the silver bettors in the Leger and Flat
than from the rich pencillers in the Paddock made
John Storey’s gorge rise. John is a regular attendant
at the horses, and sometimes goes to the ponies, too,
and it may have been only a coincidence that it was
on the evening of one of the Premier’s visits to the
ponies that Treasurer Lang altered his proposal.
Bookmaking is certainly beginning to feel the strain
of tax and tote, and some of the smartest are in-
vesting their capital in real estate in anticipation of
the day that Ikey Mo’s donkey will refuse to carry
the burden. At a recent pony meeting some of the
men with the bag had to ask for time.
BARRY’S DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I m going- to retire a winner. When one retires
a winner lie generally retains some respect, but when
was beaten by Felton on the Thames my dog was
the only one that seemed pleased to see me. He
wagged his tail. ’ — Sculling-champion Ernest Barry.
In England where the river drifts to London and
the sea
A dog is loafing aimlessly around:
His life is not the thing of zest and joy it used to be;
In point of fact, his boredom is profound.
He does not feel the hot appeal of casual affray;
His heart is sick within him since his hero went
away.
The dog that Barry left behind is everybody’s dog—
The only living thing that never fails.
He spurns the whole wide world, as though it were
some passing hog,
As close behind his god he proudly trails.
Men lose their wives and smash their lives and
health and credit spend;
the dog they had before they crashed sticks by them
to the end.
When luck is in and all goes well the fortunate
forget
The worship that they own, with none to share:
It is not till the sun that lit their lives begins to set
They realise their humble pal is there.
On that dark day they turn his way and in his
grave, wise eyes
Get something back of decent pride before hope
fades and dies.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


LEARN TO DEFEND YOURSELF.
Every man or boy can become a
boxer. Nature has supplied the neces-
sary equipment—my scientific teach-
ing can do the rest. The benefits you
obtain both physically and morally
last you throughout life. It inspires
you with a sturdy confidence that
makes you feel at ease under trying
circumstances—it enables you to take
your own part against bigger men.
I Teach
Boxing by Post
—teach you all the points of the game, beginning
with a thorough grounding in the rudiments of Box-
ing. I take you through every move, punch, stop
and counter—l teach you facts about my craft
based on my own practical experience—that are
quite out of the ordinary. Hundreds of enthusiastic
siudents throughout Australia are practising the
Baker Boxing Course under my own personally-
dictated advice and criticism.
Just write your name and address across this adver-
tisement and post it to me with three stamps for
postage, and I will send you FREE a copy of my
interesting Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in the Home,”
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc.
YS/Z
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
341 Municipal Buildings, 82 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
H. A. Parsons rode
miles in 24
hours on an Indian
lubricated with
\Vj4KEF/ELD
Regtt.
MOTOR. OIL I
British and Best.
C.C. Wakefieldg Co. Ltd.
Union House, George Street, Sydney;
and London.
■■ ••
s
Lzasm
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BIS POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE G 1 NERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
K
VWVvS
a
HEADACHE
and
SORE
THROAT
YOU FEEL
TOO ILL
TO GET
UP—BUT
there’s an old and tested remedy which
will make you feel better immediately
and will cure you absolutely in two
days. When you wake up with a head-
ache and sore throat —
' - t 'f ‘ '
DON’T BE ALARMED! FEND OFF THAT
ATTACK OF ’FLU BY TAKING
GREATH EAD’S
MIXTURE.
S * s so * n ? ener ous-sized bottles, and one bottle is generally more than
t 0 eure most obstinate cold. It will also cure tonsilitis, bronchitis,
enza, sore throat and quinsy. Never be without a bottle of Greathead’s.
YOUR CHEMIST AND GROCER SELL IT!
AN EXCEPTIONAL SHIPMENT OF
THE CELEBRATED
“OMEGA”
Hair Clippers
Spare plates to cut three different lengths included.
12/6 per set. Postage 6d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, LIMITED,
Importers of Tobaccos, Cigars and Cigarettes,
Head Office: 376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
In this iron the
heating device is of
particular strength and
heating quality. The “Spot”
iron executes beautiful work,
even on the most delicate fabrics,
und is superior to others at higher
prices.
A perfect boon during the summer months —ready
to use in a minute, and fits any lamp socket.
96-SPOT ELECTRIC
IRON
THE SPOT
3 51
including cord
and fitting.
All Electricians & Ironmongers.
Wholesale:
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY. LTD.,
172-176 William Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
ns
ftRTKTIONfto»f
DETROIT tftlCftlGAN
iy 2 to 8 H.P.
Heavy Duty
Type.
An exceedingly sturdy
and reliable Single-
Cylinder model. Ideal
for the light launch
where engine space is
limited. Equipped
with weather-proof
igniter for certain
spark in all weathers.
MR. 11. JORGENSEN, well-known Sydney stevedore, writes ; —
I have been running one of your 4-h.p. marine engines fitted with
weather-proof igniter in my 20ft. by 7ft. oin. beam double-endev work-boat
for last two years, using it day and night in all weathers, boarding
incoming ships. I do 6 to 7 m.p.h., averaging 50 miles per 24 hours, and
am often 30 miles out to sea. I will be pleased to demonstrate my
engine to anyone requiring an outfit, as it has never failed to bring me
home.—(Signed) H. JORGENSEN.
Immediate Delivery from Stock
of Caille Perfection Outboard and Bantam (inboard) Motors,
also 1-, 2- and 4-cylinder types from 2 to 30 H.P., for light or
heavy duty. Write for catalogue and all particulars to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.” c. 349.


The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
(with 144 Branches and 506 Agencies).
41
INTEREST
on deposits up to £5OO
and per cent, on any
excess up to £lOOO.
4Z
Personal, joint and trust accounts opened.
a
Exquisite Art
in Gowning
It is not enough that a gown or
tailor-suit be the last word in
fashion. Art decrees that the
relationship between gown and
wearer be one of perfect harmony.
That is the essential difference be-
tween a Shave gown and another.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
&
Vanity
Fair Silk
Gloves are
made with ex-
pert skill and
faultless precision
and besides adding the
last touc.i of refinement to
the dainty woman, are really
economical because of the guar-
antee which goes with them—
a guarantee which ensures for
you longer wear and the greatest
measure of satisfactory service.
Ask your draper for
VANITY" FAIR SILK
GLOVES—the gloves of
charm and distinction.
VF 33
'Vamly^air 0
SULK. (BUfimßO
VISITORS.—Don’t miss one of the city’s greatest attractions—the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
The Munro Fergusons left Melbourne,
homeward-bound, on Friday. The day was
grey with rain, but that didn’t mitigate the
farewell that broke out in damp hankies and
dripping umbrellas when the departing
couple whizzed away to the station. At
.Spencer-street an overpowering swarm of
gold-braided importants and their ladies fell
u their Exes., and Billy Hughes had
difficulty in pushing a belated portrait of
himself and his wife into the hands of Lady
Munro Ferguson. Vegetation and good
wishes were also handed up, and pipers
added to the genera] misery as the train
puffed out.
A squad of soldiers was brought up to
I ederal Parliament House to erect marquees
for a garden party to the departing G.-G.’s;
but rain ruined the arrangements, so the
chief guests said good-bye in the Queen’s
Hall, with the painted images of other ex-
Excellencies looking down on their grief. It
was a cold function, made mournfully deco-
rous by poker-backed Ministers and correct
conversation, and the only small wave of
sentiment rolled in when Mrs. Billy Hughes
undraped a fine portrait of Lady Munro
Ferguson from the brush of W. B. Mclnnes.
Mrs. Hughes shared the hostessing with Mrs.
Joe Cook, who looked as if she would rather
be doing a bit of her favorite knitting in a
quiet corner.
The new G.-G. will, it is now thought,
have time to settle down before the Spring
racing carnival begins at Flemington, so it
may be taken for granted, that, Lieut.-
Governor Irvine and his dame will not have
a monopoly of the hospitality so far as visit-
ing Excellencies are concerned. It is thought
that the Forsters will be glad of the oppor-
tunity of meeting the State somebodies in
the care-free mood which tradition, if not
truth, credits them with wearing at Cup-
time.
His Excellency Allardyce of the Apple
Isle has come across to stay with his friend
Admiral Grant at Cliveden Mansions. The
Admiral got off a nice little dinner there at
the same time to the departing Munro
Fergusons. The life of the party was Navy
Minister Laird Smith, whose story of his
Coronation visit to London tickles any
dinner-tab^e.
The John Madden widow, with youngest
daughter, Mrs. Jack Baillieu, lately hostessed
a big tea and cake frivol at the Alexandra
Club. It was the dame’s first plunge into
the social vortex since her husband’s death,
and her black chiffonery was still relieved
only by a white collar and a spray of purple
stocks.
Mayoress Stein and Mrs Hughes, of the
W.N.L., represent opposite poles of opinion
about the manners and customs of Melbourne
Sassiet.v. Wherever the Mayoress goes she
sees girls taking cocktails before meals and
cigarettes between the fish and the entree;
and she beholds maidens muzzy in the dance
and muddled in the motor-car 1 . But Mrs.
Hughes! In her blandest official tone she
says : “I do not go so much into society as I
used a few years ago, but my husband and
daughter still attend a wide range of these
social functions. Neither they nor myself
have ever seen any young woman showing
the least sign of drink.” To the rescue of
the Mayoress comes Mrs. Baker, president of
the National Council of Women, who testi-
fies to having seen girls in hotels and sundry
places consuming cocktails and smoking fags.
As for witnesses who remain anonymous
and pour their evidence into the newspapers,
they are all for the Mayoress’s side of the
case. “Chaperon,” in particular, paints a
picture calculated to popularise the dancing
habit among graceless young men who have
hitherto had no spare time for balls and
“At a recent ball,” writes “Chape-
ron,” “many young girls and women were
drunk, some carried out helpless, one dancing
with her arms around her partner’s neck,
another with a cigarette in her mouth.”
But while things are bad they are not as
bad as some of the Mayoress’s supporters sug-
gest. For a good many of the girls who
play at being “sports” and finish up in a
state of semi-stupor are the same girls repeat-
ing themselves on divers occasions. And
the boys who pay for their drinks, dinners
and theatre tickets or ball tickets are a very
small crowd of half-baked johnnies, who
can’t talk well enough to keep the girls
interested. The prevailing trouble with these
mixed-chicken gatherings, as a rule, is mutual
empty-headedness. The boy hasn’t sense
enough to feel ashamed of a shiekered part-
ner, and because he’s such a fool the girl
flies to drinks and smokes for recreation.
Yes, and it is quite true that the election
of Gaud Mayor and the local-option poll are
coming on. and that “publicity” is in these
days a subtle art.
F arsity Professor Harry Allen, who knows
all about the human machine, lately alarmed
his brother-highbrows by falling ill for the
first time in many years. He is doing nicely
now, but is feeling annoyed with the doctor
who has ordered him to join the go-slow
brigade and then take a “long holiday.”
Jimmie Osborne, of Sydney, has brought
his Maude into the Cabbage Garden. They
are putting their son to school at Geelong,
and Mrs. Maude Jeffries Osborne may take
a place at Geelong to be near her hopeful.
Ex-Flight Captain Jim Fairbairn, who did
a lot of A.D.C. jobs for the Munro Ferguson
lady at the. farewell frivols, is a triumphant
instance of the modern surgery which de-
precates hasty amputations. For four long
years young Jim has carried his right arm
in a sling, the divorced parts of his upper
arm bone (severed by a violent and unex-
pected landing in German lines) having
resolutely refused to join up. Now Nature
(with some help) has suddenly decided to do
the repair job.
“Honorables” are becoming almost as
common as justices of the peace. Every
new Ministry adds six or eight to the list.
If a man has been in a Government for 10
minutes he is an honorable for life and
entitled to a free pass over the State rail-
ways. Members of the Duller House are
all honorables, and aftep 10 years’ service,
if they go out of politics, the monarch is
moved to let them retain the useless handle.
Ex-Speakers are in the same category. Of
course, the prefix is only for official
documents and visiting-cards, and if a metro-
politan newspaper man were to use it he
would be in greater danger of the sack
than if he “esquired” the speakers at a public
meeting.
Ghostly voices are whispering in the
corridors upstairs at the Grand Hotel. News
has come from England of the death of L. L.
Lewis’s widow, renowned in her young days
as Rosa Dunn, a favorite actress. Her sister
it was whom Marcus Clarke married. The
Lewis couple lived at the Grand for many a
year, and their fads and fancies were the talk
of the hotel. Being childless they not un-
naturally adored a little' dog. When Fido
fell very sick they were in despair. They sat
up o’ nights with the affectionate animal,' and
at last their solicitude was rewarded. The
patient took a turn for the better. One after-
noon a band of kiddies, staying at the hotel,
were romping in the corridor near . the
Lewises’ rooms. The lady appeared at the
open doorway of the bedroom with a finger
on her lip. She stepped forward on tiptoe.
“Flush, darlings,” said the anxious nurse,
“and walk very quietly to the next floor to
play. Fido has just dropped off into a
beautiful sleep.”
Ethel Leon, who
is a daughter of
lawyer Sam Leon,
was one of the
representatives o f
Bacterid ogy at
the recent Austral-
asian Medical Con-
ference in Brisbane.
The clever young
person was one of
the first women-
chemists i n Mel-
bourne. She has not
put up a private
signboard, but has
handled the chemis-
try department for
more than one Mel-
bourne hospital, be-
ginning with the
Queen Victoria.
The war was responsible for the death of
Leslie Clark, son of the Ballarat Courier
Clarks, at Manly last week. He and his
sister went globe-trotting in 1913 and had
the had luck to be in Germany when war
broke out. The sister’s internment didn’t
last long enough to affect her health per-
manently ; but Leslie was so badly treated
for a couple of years that his was broken.
Edna Armytage, our super-jazzier, is
packing for a trip to India. Mrs Ralph
Verney, Eadith Walker’s niece, may lend her
aid as chaperon. Mrs. Verney’s husband is
Custodian of the Royal Curry, or something
such, on the Viceroy’s staff.
A hideous rumor declares that a Parlia-
mentary set will gambol through the lancers
at the forthcoming Newsboys’ Ball, wearing
the stately trappings of the Peers in
“lolantlie.” If Billy Hughes is included in
the rag it should be the gladdest event of
the season. The new G.-G. Forsters’ threat
to be present has aroused a perfect frenzy
of interest in this affair.
Paying guests in Toorak’s two most
superior hasheries are living in deadly fear
of marching orders, since the whisper went
round that their roomy shelters are the only
places fit to fly the State vice-regal flag. The
Towers, which is likely to be selected, was
built by the late Matthew Davies.
The long-drawn-out cold of Melbourne
clutched well-liked Frank Stuart Howarth.
the N. S. Wales manager of the Bacchus
Marsh Milk Co., when lately he c-ame,south;
and pneumonia ended his young life in a St.
Ivilda private hospital within about a fort-
night. Besides a widow and two sons he
leaves a daughter who would call the late
Professor Howarth, of Liverpool, Gran’-dad
if he, were still alive. '
Adelaide’s social reel:—
A Baby Week—-with the proceeds for the Queen’s
Home and School for Mothers —is to make the big-
gest demands upon our time and pockets before
next letter. The Conservatorium students set the
ball rolling with a subscription dance and netted
a useful cheque. The School for Mothers is ’one of
the most useful of institutions, and at present labor's
along with an assured income that covers only about
half its essential expenditure.
Nellie Verco, one of the smartest of this season’s
debutantes, and, of course, “one of the Prince’s
partners, dear,” is engaged to Hew Giles, eldest
son of the O’Halloran Gileses and a grandson of the
late R. Barr Smith. They plan an early wedding and
then England. He served with a British regiment.
Lady Weigall opened the carnation and sweet-pea
show on Friday. Op Thursday her Ex. went with
the Governor to see Mrs. Mouchette’s and Mis. Lion's
exhibition of paintings and give an order or two.
The Deeley-Searfe wedding was on Wednesday
evening first at the Marryatville Anglican Church
and then at the Moulden home in North Adelaide,
where a huge marquee on'the lawn engulfed the
guests while a curious crowd blocked the roadwav.
This hitherto quiet-going village isn’t used to even-
ing wedding's, and here was a smart one.
Married on Saturday, Marjorie, elder daughter
of the Alfred Wellses, and Dick Yeatman, the returned
Digger son of the Yeatmans, of Auburn. Marjorie
was secretary of the S.P.C.A. for half a dozen years.
Adelaide Zoo prides itself on being, like many
other things in the city, not large but notably well
selected. The 42nd annual meeting (which once
more elected the veteran Simpson Newland to the
president’s chair) had the strong support of Governor
Weigall, a keen member of the similar English body.
Adelaide Zoo is on the Torrens bank, and has
obtained seven acres more just across the river, but
cannot make much use of it, from lack of funds to con-
struct even a light bridge.
An unusual kind of show is open in the Society
of Arts gallery. Mrs. Mouchette and Mrs. Lion are
two elderly Frenchwomen long resident in Adelaide,
but with records of former art successes in the Paris
Salon and elsewhere. Their display is very varied.
Some ambitious figure-studies may be passed over.
The local landscapes are pleasing. The older work,
done in Egypt and India, is fine dust, mist and
moonlight being rendered with artistic touch. Else-
where are clever miniatures. On the end wall is an
unusual collection of tapestry, the work of the same
artists, or local women who have learned from them.
Added to a respectable record of authorship, the
whole show is a tribute to Gallic versatility.
A lot of country people rolled along to the dance
given by Bennett and Fisher to celebrate the opening
of their new wool-stores at Port Adelaide. In addi-
tion to Adelaide’s Smart Setters there were many
groups from further out, the wife of one farmer
arriving for the revel in a brown skirt and blue
blouse. The centre of the immense shed was roped
off for jazzing, and old Sliprails and Harrow-
plough were so taken by the amount of backbone ex-
hibited by city ladies that they dragged chairs up
to the ropes and grinned in wonder. One of
the wheatfield ladies tried in vain to remove her hus-
band, who repeatedly nudged a brother patriarch as
white shoulders flashed past. But the old boy was
not to be shifted.
Ivy Phillips, the Adelaide contralto who recently
went to England, is studying under Mrs. Bryceson
Treharne, Maude Thackeray that was. Bryceson
Treharne was in New York for several years, but
has settled down in England.
A returned Adelaidienne is Dr. May Moffatt, who
has been making a special study of the Work in
children’s hospitals abroad. She attended the Con-
gress of the B.M.A. at Cambridge.
Adelaide’s hockey girls find their game a strenuous
business. The two best teams in their association
are Aroha and University, and recently they struggled
all the afternoon and continued another 20 min-
utes after the bell went, and still neither could score.
A second match was held, with the same result.
One dishevelled damsel did manage to get the ball
through the posts, but a stern umpire decided that
she had kicked it in running, and disallowed the goal.
Esmond Lillies has been made very happy
by Inez Argyle, the graceful fair-haired
daughter of the Kew doctor. She was one of
the Princeling’s partners. Esmond is son of
I.)r. Herbert Lillies, toils in Dalgety’s, and
owns an attractive stepmother who used to
be Violet Thornley. •
Strange requests have been received by the
Travellers’ Aid Society, but none stranger
than this which dropped in very lately: “I
am the wife of a country mayor, and I would
be tiuly grateful if you could find me a posi-
tion as a cook in Melbourne. Since he
assumed office he has got swelled head, and
he is impossible to live with.”
Melba has had a scrumptious trip to Nor-
way. She sipped her morning chocolate out
ot the gold cup of her hosts. Baron and
Baionne de \\ edel Jarllbery, at their chateau
at Ivougum Hvalstad. Our skylark visited
Queen Alexandra before leaving London, and
Norway was feted by the King and Queen
ot -Norway and attractive Prince Olaf. Baron
Jarllbery is the Norwegian Ambassador in
i ans. After the Norwegian jaunt the Dame
does a tour of England till November, then
some visits in Scotland, then her beloved
Paris for awhile, and perhaps Australia in
March.
Will the Yerbrugghen boom be repeated
with all the vehemence predicted by the
J. nits, whose forecasts are not untinged
with commercial color? The enormous suc-
cess ot his last series of concerts in Mel-
bourne is bringing Ilenri back to the Town
Hall with his orchestra sooner than was
expected, and some of the merely-moderately-
musical smart women seem still in doubt as
to whether they will be ready to enthuse by
Saturday. Those who went to a couple of
previous concerts on the understanding that
it was quite the right thing to be “bored
stiff are certain the return visit is prema-
ture. ‘‘My. soul is resting,” said one.
This snapshot of artist George Bell shows
him 1(5 years older than he was when he was
last in Australia. Bell is a National Gallery
product who invaded Europe in 1!M)4, going for
two years to Julian s, in Parts, before settling
down to try the effect
of his fresh young
style on the London
portrait market.
Commissions were
rare at first, but he
gradually established
himself, joined the
Society of Modern
Portrait Painters,
and began to use a
lot of canvas. One
of his first successes
was Katharine Cecil
Thurston, who wrote
“John Chilcote,
M.P.,” and he “did”
several other people
in the slick. Sar-
gentesque manner
that distinguished
much of his work in his recent Melbourne
show. Rejected for the trenches in 1914.
he went into a munition factory until 191 S,
when he was appointed war artist to the
4th (A.1.F.) Division. He has painted
some capital portraits of Digger Generals —
Glasgow, Maclagan and Blarney among the
number—and is now busy reproducing the
Battle of Hamel for the War Museum.
Allan Wilkie’s “Hamlet” at the Princess’s
suggests that the Court dressmaker was
fond of frisky eolors. Queen Gertrude
appears in a yellow gown with a red hood
and cape. Cherry is the tint of Claudius's
Sunday best, and blobs of the same hue
figure on the blue train that trails behind.
Laertes’s mauve suit is soothing beside the
crimson, black and grey of Osric, but both
look almost mournful in the neighborhood of
Horatio’s brilliant plumage. The ladies of
the Court appear to have been given the
freedom of a dye-works. The most remark-
able of them is a comely damsel who has
evidently founded her get-up on the Ten of
Diamonds. The funereal duds of Hamlet
only turn red occasionally by kind attention
from the limelight man., but Ophelia has a
curious gown, with a furtive grey-green
shimmer suggesting the fluid in which she
meets her end.
One doesn’t hear of a large and fashion-
able committee being formed on behalf of
Howard Vernon, who is to have a benefit
matinee at Her Majesty’s in three weeks'
time. But Sassiety may warm towards the
function when reminded that Howard Ver-
non is not as young as he was, and will
doubtless be very glad of all the tokens of
remembrance he can get at his matinee. He
is to reappear, for the occasion, in the char-
acter of Ko-Ivo in “Mikado.”
Enid Derham, Mistress of Arts, will sit
in the chair of English at. Perth Uni. next
year, so our own Workers’ Educational Asso-
ciation will presently want a lecturer to
replace the brainy, busy scholar and poetess.
Seems that Professor Murdoch, whom she
will replace for the time, is coming to Mel-
bourne on a 12 months’ 'holiday. In a
measure it will be only a ’busman’s holiday,
for the Professor is returning to his old
haunts to write the life of Alfred Deakin.
The rush of events since his friends fare-
welled him has been so great that he and his
wife will be expected to look all the younger
for their change of air. One doesn’t think
of them as having been away any time at
all.


-
anlas
% *
I w
11;> ! n
y: ■■ rl in
%
iff
111
!f»...........
5
H
\
'
*
m t
i
So*
*>■':
* s *■ ■■. S, ! ' i HIM" - ' <■''*
H
•'V Hi
'
<• i:Sj
&!
H
■ I
K^P*'Zx jJteLti&x
0
£A
f
■■
.V*.
...
rm
■
n
■ ■
mmmrnm
- - ;■
m
■■■■■■l
C' Back: ”B
t———
■ • iV-'r
..»-*• *V* * jt. <, /,* '. *
l
I


Charles
Vintage 1911
CMHPM
NE PLUS ULTRA
nr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
i *"w-
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
I linunm/mii
shg
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and offers
the tourist altogether
delightful, accommoda-
tion.
Collins St. Melbourne.
The Dainty Afternoon f eas served at the PAVILION. Circular Quay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people. Orchestral performances daily.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
When the Renown ploughed furrows
in Port Jackson, the younger smart set
scattered broadcast the seed of the
cordial eye and the come-hither glance;
but, alas! the seed was like that
which fell by the wayside in the Bible
story; .so the looked-for crop of diamond
half-hoops was never gathered, and boredom
and ennui hang like a pall over the mar-
riage jnarket. However, the high lights
of the Wentworth the other evening, when
the W. H. Rothes gave the smart dinner-
dance of the week, somewhat lightened the
gloom. All the Princely Set, representing
the flats of Darlinghurst, the brass-plates of
Macquarie-street and the near-ancestral
homes of Darling Point, took the floor
between the courses. The Ken Austins, the
fur-coatless Watts and pretty Alison McCor-
mick ; Joan Tregarthen, who pays for her
evening jazz-frocks by selling bonnets in the
daytime; Molly Little * with not even a
belted earl to keep her company; tall Betty
Dangar; the Rolins, Doreen Hordern—they
were all there, with the rest of the giddy
throng that helped 11.R.H. to rip up Eadith
Walker’s best stair-carpet.
There are 17 acres of vegetable- and
flower-garden, fowl-yard and cow-paddoclc
surrounding Ilavilah, the Church of Eng-
land home for children at Wabroonga, and
the bathrooms where each child’s mug, towel
and toothbrush hang unon a numbered
hook are a sight to please any mother’s eye.
The little ones adore the garden, and last
week, while Dame Margaret was declaring
the home open, five-and-twenty small boys
and half-a-dozen little girls went gaily on
with their game of oranges and lemons on
the tennis-court m yards away from the
cerergony. Red Cross Matron Calvert is in
charge.
In November, when the roses are in their
fullest bloom, the fairest rose of all, whose
name is Charity, will sweeten the lives of
the motherless and fatherless small ones
who call Havilah their home. The Balloon
Ball, inflated by an influential committee,
will hold sway on the 18th of the •month,
when there’s little risk in gitting-out bare-
backed in a Town Hall corridor. Good
Mrs. Sargent pays the piper, Mrs. Edward
Knox wipes out the hall exes., and Mrs.
Tony Hordern and Mrs. Chris Taylor pro-
vide the balloony decorations. Daphne and
Diana Davidson are to be leaders of a
Nursery Rhyme set; for the party includes
others besides Mum and Dad —from seven to
nine a specially-arranged programme, in-
cluding polkas and a Sir Roger, will set the
kiddies dancing around the balloon tree.
And the new G.-G., his wife and the rest of
the family are to be there.
The Moiseiwitsch couple have said good-
bye to Sydney. Daisy, who believes in
sartorial expression, wore a subdued little
black frock for the final matinee. Her
playing of the group she has made her own,
“Dragonflies,” Cyril Scott’s “Lullaby” and
the “Tambourin Chinois,” had the usual ear-
splitting applause, and Daisy included in
her reply an old French hymn that sounds
like a choir of nuns singing Benediction in
a converit chapel, while out in the garden
murmurous bees clamor at the hearts of the
flowers. Nor must Topsie Doenau be for-
gotten. She is a heaven-born accompanist;
and Sydney hopes to one day hear her at
the piano all for herself. It was a lonely
Benno, after all, who sailed to America in
the Ventura, baby Tanya having decided to
develop measles; and mother had to fly off
to Melbourne to nurse the small one, which
means postponing her d6but in New York.
With the shaking out of Spring’s tassels
on the trees, the song-birds are out in full-
throated melody, and among them is Myrtle
Thorne—and that’s a name as musical as a
whole thicket of waking birds. Myrtle is a
tall, slight young thing with a voice like a
’cello; and teacher Roland Foster claims
her a second Clara Butt. She came from
Melbourne, but has lived in Sydney these 12
months past. Last week the Governor
Davidsons had her singing for them at the
big house, and afterwards wrote telling her
that they would fling the halo of vice-regal
patronage around her concert next month,
though they would be holiday-making in the
country. Two days later Mrs. T. J. Palmer,
of Mosman, introduced Myrtle and a fair-
haired brother to more of musical and artis-
tic Sydney through Farmer’s balcony and a
brew of tea. Everybody is as pleased with
her as if she were a win in Tattersall’s.
There has been mourning in many homes
for Herschel Harris, a man with the gentlest
nature and most unobtrusive manner in the
world, whose fame as a radiographer was
great wherever medicine-men foregather. He
had been made a member of the Rontgen
Society of England, and it was when America
extended a like honor that the National Gov-
ernment placed his name upon its ill-fated
“honor-list”—probably the brilliant man was
the only one there who had no inkling that
his name was indexed. He seems to have
been too engrossed with his work to seriously
think of marriage; at any rate he died un-
wed, literally making himself a sacrifice to
his new branch of surgery.
Chalmers, of Farmer’s, is no more; the
strong-faced man who was 63 and looked no
more than 50 died on Monday morning,
leaving Mrs. Chalmers and daughters Betty
and Margaret stricken with sudden grief.
Sydney has two piles of masonry and two
businesses the finer for James Chalmers’s
guiding hand—the Civil Service Stores and
Farmer’s itself. It was in regard to the
extensions of the big store that Mr. Chalmers
went again to America and England last
year, wanting to get the newest ideas for the
house which had become his pride. lie
was a figure in the Royal Philharmonic
Society, the Madrigal Society and the High-
land Society, but the choir that the workers
in Farmer’s formed was his special joy, and
when the 200-odd voices raised themselves
for an evening’s music James Chalmers was
a happy man.
An artist who knows both places well, and
New York besides, looked round the Educa-
tion Department’s Gallery the other night
and said: “It’s great! This is just as good
as the Chelsea Arts Club or the Langlmm.
Now, why can’t we have something like
this in Sydney all the time, instead of just
one night a year?” The reason seems to
be that the Society of Artists gives only one
smoker a year in the majestic, picture-lined
room. It was mostly talk and tobacco
smoke, with just enough string and piano
music to give men a rest from conversation
and set them dreaming—or plotting how to
get an empty glass refilled without disturb-
ing their group. When Sydney gets to
know a little more about the charm of these
Society of Artists’ evenings there will be
great plotting for invitations.
_ Commodore Allison, R.N., an A.D.C. to
his Ex., left for England by the Orsova on
Saturday. By the same ship went Commo-
dore Dumaresq’s Flag-Lieutenant Conway
Lyon and Mrs. Lyon. Lieut. Bowyer-
Smythe, who is eligible for the bachelor tax,
has taken the flag-lieutenancy.
It costs, by the way, more than eighteen-
pence now to get to Tilbury Docks. The
P. and O. has a cabin-de-luxe or two which
you ■ can honeymoon in for £550 there and
back; and an ordinary single passage leaves
£l7O less for the Taxation Commissioner to
take.
May Cooper, who raised" her cream-and-
honey contralto at Government House last
week, is another leader of Sydney’s Spring
choir. Gordon
Lavers played her
accompaniments, and
Sir Walter and
Dame Margaret
were all kindly in-
ter-est and warm
hospitality to these
two gifted young
Australians, whose
eyes have not seen
the outside world
since childhood. All
Sydney knows how
high Gordon Lavers
is ranked among
musicians, and there
can be nothing but
success waiting on
May Cooper’s rich,
sweet notes. She
will appear at teacher Ada Baker’s recital
next month. May Moore took the picture.
Edmund H. Stoney, formerly secretary to
.the Premier, has packed up his picture gal-
lery and wiped the secrets of the Premier’s
Department out of his mind. He goes on
holiday, the first for five years, before taking
on his new job of secretary to the Harbor
Trust, which means a big rise on his former
salary. There are heartburnings over the
appointment.
Asparagus fern and pink poppies canopied
a crowded floor at the Mater Misericordim
Ball at the Warringah Hall last week, and
thri treasury should show good results.
Frocks in all the rainbow hues, and some
that the Futurists have made their own,
jazzed and one-stepped, with a fine display
of silk ankles, to Powers’s orchestra, which
worked overtime in supplying the encore
demand. City Mayoress Fitzgerald, presi-
dent of the committee, came in a dress
of black and gold, and brought a good-
looking son who is “doing” medicine. Mrs.
J. H. Phipps, Mrs. V. Conriek and Miss Cor-
liss were the secretaries. Slim Mrs. Dan
Kelly, whose husband is carver-in-chief to
the Mater patients, mixed jade green, black
net and gold tissue with the happiest re-
sults ; and, what is more, for one night only
beguiled her husband from his billiard-table
to take part in the jazz.
Dorothy, only daughter of the H. H.
Jamiesons, of Huntley’s Point, is putting
up the banns with Arthur H. Woodforde,
whose dad was Dr. A. E. Woodforde, of
Uralla.
Dark-eyed Gladys Hay has annexed an
engagement ring from Leslie McConnan,
who is accountant at . the Sydney branch of
the National Bank. Fiancde, who dropped
in here from the Cold Country, warbles very
prettily.
Essie, the persistent V.A. among Donald
Cormack’s quiverful of Mosman girls, has
had a week of farewells before sailing off
(stewards and firemen willing) to have a
Hobart wedding. Her Cedric Job, who was
badly gassed with the Engineers, awaits her
and a family party.
May Moore has at last made this picture of
the elusive young artist Olive Crane, whose
“Tired Dancer” has
just been added to
the National Gal-
lery treasures. The
Society o f Artists’
show is gladdened by
four of Olive’s paint-
ings ; two are deli-
cate romance breath-
in g visionings o f
Prunella: one a bit
of magic sun arid
shade called “The
Passion Vine.” And
Compton Mackenzie
could not have
dreamed anything
more sylph-like for
his Jenny than the
tired-out, snowy-
throated dove that
Olive has painted sinking into a cushioned
nest. She is a Julian Ashton pupil.
Mrs. Ivor McCray and her four sons helped
to swell the passenger-list of the Ventura on
her last trip out. McCray pdre will follow
on a later ship. Their home has been in
Australia for many years—three of the boys
were born here; but now business will keep
them inside the Golden Gate.
Another plucky Digger faces life from a
motor-cycle driven from the side-car —Private
Brown, late of the 14th Field Ambulance;
and what a story of heroism lies behind his
wounding! The Royal Enfield, presented oy
Lt.-Col. Bond at the Hospital last week, was
one of the purchases out of the money made
by the soldier patients’ magazine, Remnants
from Randwick, which has provided wheel-
beds and motor side-cars, and consequently
long hours in the glad outside world, for
many a soldier boy who would otherwise be
chained to a ward.
Joe (Reuben) Gardiner, whose name is on
a hundred hoardings, met with tragedy last
week when death claimed his only child, a
beauty just in her 20th year. Long-seated
catarrh put the edge on the Reaper’s sickle.
Sympathy goes out to May Moore, who
met sorrow suddenly last week. Her hus-
band’s mother and her own dear friend,
Mrs. Louisa Wilkes, a well-known war-
worker, was apparently in the best of health
on Wednesday, but collapsed suddenly, and
was buried on Friday. Mrs. Wilkes’s younger
son Norman was killed in action in 1917
after winning his commission on the field.
There is a first-rate education free of all
charge awaiting the child of some , dead
Digger who served in the Ist, 10th or 12th
F.A. Brigade. These units ran a joint
Comforts Fund, and the bursary which is
now available is one of two created by a
cash surplus and the generosity of sub-
scribers. Mothers are asked to communicate
with Mr. R. E. Kemp, Homebush, and the
name of the child appointed will probably
be announced at a brigade smoke concert
on October 16 —the date on which the ori-
ginal A.I.F. left Sydney.
Lewisham drew its annual crowd last
week when the meeting for the blue sisters’
hospital was called. The wonderful Mother
Rectress had an eye to everything as usual.
Their Exes, and Aide Lamb were there, with
the Mayoral Fitzgeralds, and the veils of the
sisterhood fluttered in the breeze like bits of
the heavens themselves. The meeting was
terrifically enthusiastic; and over £lOOO was
gathered for the funds.
It was “breaking-up” night at the Glassy
on Saturday ; and the ice-pack frolicked
accordingly. At the end of the proceedings
Dunbar Poole, the manager, was called out
for a speech; and they ring-a-rosied round
him, and then “chaired” him—which, with
the bearers on skates, didn’t seem as com-
fortable as a ride in a Rolls Royce.
The week in Brisbane:—
The women’s committee of the Bursary Fund has
handed to Mayoress Maxwell about £7OO, which will
help along the education of a few kiddies of sailors
and soldiers. Mrs. W. Grave is the chief toileress cf
the committee, and she had a special vote of thanks
all to herself.
Dr - V. M. B. Willis, son of Mr. and Mrs. V. A. B.
Willis, of Sydney, has annexed one of Brisbane’s
nicest girls. He was married at All Saints’ to Wini-
fred Sutton, only daughter of our P.M.0., Col.
Sutton, D.S.O. Lena Hammond’s contralto filled the
church with “The Song of Thanksgiving.” The little
bride wore white satin, softly draped and relieved
with silver lace. There was a rainbow trio of
bridesmaids. Clare Willis (in pink), Jean Graham
(turquoise) and Melody Taylor (mauve) made an
artistic background for white Winifred.
Another wedding on Wednesday night was Tom
Wilkie s with Connie Campbell. The ’groom is the
only son of W. R. W ilkie, a well-known business
man, and the bride the younger daughter, of the late
W. H. Campbell, of Jaccondol station. The bridal
garment was white satin and georgette. Phyllis
Stephenson, of Glen Innes, was bridesmaid.
Crowds of women in cool summer frocks wandered
over the Ascot lawns, the September meeting having
drawn a beautiful day in the weather sweep. Mrs.
Fihelly looked handsome in white organdie embroid-
dered in mauve and pink; Mrs. Tom McCawley wore
grey; Mrs. Ted Real white georgette, and Mrs.
Lachlan Wilson sand-colored georgette and satin.
D. S. Thistletlnvayte, who has labored on behalf
of the Queensland Art Society for many years, and
who is about to leave for England, was farewelled
last Thursday. Many an anxious young artist has
to thank D. S. Thistlethwayte, not only for a kindly
word of encouragement, but for more substantial
help, proffered secretly and never known unless a
grateful protegee talked.
Singing girl Gladys Verona, who is really
Gladys Bourke, made the small hall of the
Conservaforium glitter with the brilliance of
her high-range soprano one afternoon last
week when Mrs. Roland Foster and Mrs.
Joseph Bradley called the music-lovers of
Sydney together to consider ways and means
of sending the aspirant for fame to London.
Gladys is just a slip of a thing, but teachers
Roland Foster and Joe Bradley say she has
enough vocal fireworks to set the Thames on
fire ; Verbrugghen thinks likewise, and so does
opera-manager Frank Rigo. A strong com-
mittee, with Dr. Herbert Marks at its head,
has been formed. Mrs. Joe Bradley hostessed
in a graceful mixture of lavender and silk
lace, and Mrs. Foster topped her navy tri-
colette with a smart toque. The Ilay dame
descended from Crow’s Nest, and Mrs. Syd-
ney Herring, Mrs. Beeby and Mrs Carmichael
were others who turned an appreciative ear
to the girl whose application and talent must
surely win success.
Winifred Jenner drops a note from
Southport (Eng.) to say she is now study-
ing with Gregory Hast, and at the end of
the year goes on to Sir Henry Wood, who
has much to say in praise of her voice-
production. The Philip Wilsons, she adds,
are practically living at the bedside of
Philip’s mother, who is seriously ill.
The Coffees, with Aunt Eve and niece
Dorothy, are homeward-bound after a long
visit to the U.S.A., where they have many
interests and relatives.
“Woman’s crowning glory” is occasionally
a blessed nuisance, according to Dr. Harriet
Biffen, who has dispelled any North Shore
prejudice against being doctored by a lady.
She wears her hair man-fashion, not because
she likes it that way, but because the
“mussing round” with hairpins prevented her
from being early on the job when the door-
bell rang its midnight summons.
Tootles Williamson is quite a belle in her
little circle in London. She was awarded
the palm for good looks at a ball at the
Hyde Park Hotel recently. The late
J.C.W.’s chick wore a golden gown and car-
ried an armful of golden blooms, and the
fluff papers the next morning gave her a
paragraph to herself. Then the Peter
Mcßrides chaperoned her to the garden-
party at Buckingham Palace and Royalty
itself noticed her.
The workers of St. James’s are having an
egg-day for the Sydney Hospital on October
7. Just leave the product of the white Leghorn
and the blue Andalusian at the crypt; and
if the white Leghorn and the blue Andalusian
are on strike, the eggs of any little brown
plebeian hen will do.
United Charities Day got a lift from a
matinee at Her Majesty’s the other after-
noon. From just after midday the lady from
the suburbs, who, judging by many a bulging
basket, had linked up a morning’s shopping
with the afternoon’s diversion, began to
arrive outside the theatre, and by half-past
two there threatened to be a traffic-block.
The helpers are enthusiastic and the organ-
ising committee expects great results from
this year’s collection.
So far the most notable result of the
Prince’s visit to Queensland is that Chief
Justice Pope Cooper has discarded his frock-
coat and tall hat, and turned up at a recent
garden-party in a lounge suit and a felt lid.


= >
IB)
ESTB
1853
' JEWELLERS
Tea Set
in Highest Quality SUverplate,
-\JV
Three-piece Tea Set in Highest Quality Silver Plate,
£ll 10 0
Hardy Bros.’ Celebrated Plate is guaranteed to be the
Highest Quality manufactured in England. It is heavily
plated with Pure Silver on Finest Hard White Metal,
and its appearance and finish is equal to Solid Silver.
A variety of handsome designs in Tea
Sets and Tea and Coffee Services
available for selection.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Jl6-JJB Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
/ 3'
255=
***OXTCARD
\\$WC Hfc
u
m
<£7
V
JONCS
era
Us>
42A
Healthy
Bodies
Produce
Healthy Minds
Satisfactory school reports depend on whether a
child is properly nourished. It is mo£t important
that they have a good sustaining meal at midday.
Give them sandwiches spread with
“REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE
It contains all the valuable properties of fully
matured Cream Cheese. There is no more whole-
some or delicious sandwich spread, and it is an ex-
cellent aid to digestion.
Be sure to get “REX.”
Packed by FOGGITT, JONES & COMPANY, LIMITED
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Produdts
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon J 1237
‘Ansco ” Vest PocKet
No. 2, &8.
<i A ”
Ansco
Vest Pocket
Cameras
(For Roll Films).
Unquestionably the Vest
Pocket Camera is fast becom-
ing the most popular form of
camera on the market.
The maximum of speed, efficiency, size of
picture, as well as minimum of weight, bulk and
bother, have been reached with the Ansco Vest
Pocket No. 2, at £B..
It is the smallest and lightest Camera made
to take x3J inch pictures, and has Modico
Anastigmat Lens F 7-5.
lIP
The House for GOOD Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Harringtons’ also stock Kodaks and British-
made Ensign Cameras.
WADE
the Original
One-Man Drag-Saw.
The Wade is a light, strong, portable, motor-driven
machine that does away with all the drudgery of
log-sawing.
Its motor, fitted with high-tension ignition, weighs
only 100 pounds and yet develops full four-horse
power.
The Wade never baulks at hard work. It will
stand plenty of rough usage and needs the
minimum of attention. There are no confusing
chains or intricate details to the Wade—nothing
to get out of order.
Its single wheel has a simple wheel-lock that gives
rigid support.
The Wade has perfect balance. It can be worked
in corners or on the most uneven ground. Every
one of its points is the result of years of practical
experience.
Full descriptive details, etc., on request.
WGWATSON o,C°L TD
279 Clarence S i Sydney


“There’s Money
in the Pen.
If you wish to fol-
low a lucrative, re-
fined and pleasant
occupation—
Learn to Draw.
If you wish to
amuse your friends
and afford yourself
endless pleasure—
Learn to Draw.
Learn
to
Draw
by
Mail.
The Harry J. Weston School of Drawing is
based on the actual methods and experience
of one of Australia’s most successful com-
mercial artists. It cuts out the drudgery,
and is full of interest from the first lesson.
It teaches how to DRAW, not merely to
COPY. Many pupils liave more than paid
for their course before it was completed by
the sale of their own work.
Send three stamps to cover postage, and we
will forward you our illustrated booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen.” It tells you
all about the original “Weston Method,”
fees, etc.
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing,
17 Union House, corner George and
Grosvenor Streets, SYDNEY.
tor
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
.
RITISH
MADE
Perfection
rubber
QEORGE HOTEL,
St- Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Australian Mutual
87 H pw«!!'Siiiwy ProvidcntSocicty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Legal Notices.
Re EDMUND REDDISH, deceased.
T> URSCANT to atj Order of the Chancery Division
T of the High Court of Justice dated the 12th day
of July 1920 made in the Matter of the Estate of
Edmund Reddish deceased Simpson v. Reddish 1920.
R. 1009. Whereby the following Inquiries were
directed.
1. An Inquiry whether the Testator’s Son Raymond
Branstone Reddish (in the will called Raymond Red-
dish) is living or dead and if dead whether he
survived the Testator Edmund Reddish and if he
survived the Testator who are his legal personal
representatives.
2. An Inquiry whether Raymond Branstone
Reddish left any issue living at the time of the
death of the said Testator and if he left any such
issue who are the legal personal representatives of the
said Raymond Branstone Reddish.
Notice is hereby given that any person or persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiries are
personally or by their Solicitors on or before the
20th of December 1920 to come in and prove their
claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Eve and Mr.
Justice Peterson at the Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Thursday the 23rd of December
1920 at 12.30 in the afternoon at the said Chambers
Room No. 246 is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 31st day of July, 1920.
PRETOR W. CHANDLER,
Master.
CUNLIFFE, BLAKE and MOSSMAN,
48 Chancery Lane, London, W.C.2,
Agents for
Alderson, Son and Dust,
Solicitors,
Sheffield, England.
NOTE.—The above-named Raymond Branstone
Reddish left England -and went to Australia 2nd
January. 1910, and was last heard of at Woonona,
New South Wales, in February, 1912.
CQ)
111
*o'
McGill Autopower
Attachment
for fitting to a Ford Car to
make it run any belt-driven
farm machine that a 12-h.p.
gas-engine will drive. It will
do it at less expense, and
positively cannot harm the car
in any way. Will operate
Shearing Machines. Chaff Cut-
ter, Corn Sheller, Feed Grinder,
Cream Separator. Milking
Machine, Pumps, Wood Saw,
Concrete Mixer, Electric Light
Plant.
When once fitted can be de-
tached in five minutes.
Canadian manufacture.
Price, complete with Automatic Governor, K Country Agents wanted.
Friction Clutch and Auxiliary Pan. .. . dfcOO
Sole Agent, also for FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCKS made in 1 ton,
la, 2,3 a and 5-ton sizes,
H. W. CROUCH, 26-2* Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINQ
SGRUBB’S
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
In your every-day shopping
Britain needs your Support
She is making tremendous efforts to recover her peace-
time industrial status and is producing goods of true
British quality. But the war time produce of foreign
countries floods the market to the detriment of British
manufacturers These foreign-made goods by no means
compete in quality with such British made woven-wear as
UNDERWEAR
Stockings, Socks & Gloves
For Men, Wonun and Children,
The Medea
Tab
Good Drapers and Stores every-
where can supply you. See the Medea
Tab.
Manufactured by
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street, Leicester, England.
"\s.
to*
Warm and thoroughly absorb-
ent Medea is manufactured in
Britain from other than all-
wool yarn, to give comfort and
service at popular prices.
9
Wanted.
WANTED.— Experienced SALESMAN
capable of handling English Agency
for New South Wales, probably Australia,
for Sanitary Fittings, Porcelain and Glazed
Enamel Tiles, Roofing, Dampcourse, Paints,
Enamels, Varnishes, etc. Trade larger
houses only salary and or percentage of
profits. Apply Box 2137 G.P.O.
Missing Friends.
A ANDREWS, late of 16 Stawell Street,
. West Melbourne, now believed to be
in Sydney, or anyone knowing his address,
please communicate with
A. F. THOMAS,
C/o Mrs. Long,
Main Road, Moonah, Tasmania.
There’s a lot of solid comfort
In a
GBD
I find
When I’m kind of out of humor
Or troubled in my mind.
{jbd:
the perfect pipe.
Many Popular Shapes.
Sold Everywhere.
Bl£5 \
m o
C m RE 5
GBD
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
M.: Why, if the North is as good as it is
alleged to be, didn’t the colored people who knew it
all along collar it ? Well, probably for two reasons:
(1) the tremendous increase of Malay and Jap
(especially Malay) population has occurred only
during the last 60 years; (2) by far the most of
the North, though good enough country, isn’t the
jungle Country that the Malayan in particular was
familiar with....Le Baron C.: Neat; but we don’t
reprint J.R.N.: Listen:—
. Wee Gun he paid the nice dividend
Of thirteen-pound-fourteen.
He won with the greatest of comfort
In the fair-sized field of eighteen.
Heavens, what an ear for music you have !... .C.A.M.:
Sorry, but that the trip was taken at the New Year
doesn’t make the story any the less du11....
F.C.: Can’t hold up the traffic while you wag
a forefinger at the crowd and try to thrill with
such statements as “I have heard men speak on
the highest terms of certain barmaids and waitresses,
and Why not?” F.T.8.: Not enough in “Bobby”
P.A.T.: Poor verse; ansemic thought. .. .G.H.T.:
Nothing in it.... Summer: Why use those tag lines
when you handle them so poorly ?.... Octet: You
don’t make the most of it Sigma: That ground
wants manuring before being used again H.R.M.:
“Dead Finish” hasn’t a thrill. .. .Adrian: No
R. 0.8.: You were near something, but that question
method spoiled it... J Storm: Try to write something
with real feeling in it L.W. (Claremont): It is
not verse; it is not even decency.... Corkscrew:
Very dull blank verse which goes out of metre at
the fourth line E.D. (no address) : “Folly Song”
would not be so bad if it said anything; the other
is too bad to pass even if it said everything. . . .
F.R.G.: Not up Isabel M.: Says all the old things
just as the others said them Henry T.: The old
theme of one of the dreariest songs that ever wore out
a barrel-organ.... Mag: “Spring” must come to us dif-
ferently at the end of September. By that time we’re
rather blase. ... Marion I).: It moves correctly, but
without music or imagination. .. .E.K.R.: No use...
Rosemary R.: Good of its sort, but not our sort. ..
Isabel M.: “Rain” doesn’t get near... . J.A.8.: Not
worth while. .. .P.D.F.M.: Sorry, but we - can’t give
pink wings to your “Little White Clouds”.... Mollie
B.: A prayer for tender feet in Autumn is at least
unusual... .Enid H.: With the .lines fixed up a bit
they might be printed somewhere Oliver B.: The
“Pioneers” have all the old magics—
. ...W.L.I.: “Tragedy of Love” hasn’t enough red
corpuscles in it.... Doris H.: We note that “you
always sing sad songs.” Very sad ones, judging by
the sample. .. .Vril: “Sunrest” is impossible; the
other lias a sporting chance Margaret G.: They’re
dreary old “Souls” doing the same old thing in the
same old way Ken Benn : Not up Harden H.:
The verse is poor. .. .Plodder: No; even nonsense
verse shouldn’t start with a false rhyme in the first
stanza. .. .McE.: “Apple-shed” misses. .. .Sir Spen :
Don’t suppose the horse the Prince rode cared one
crushed oat whether he had a king or a baker on
his back. But even a horse might buck at some of
the lines Stripper: Doesn’t do it Suffenus:
Only makes us angry Douglas F.: “The Gum-trees”
deserve better treatment than that Tetrad: That
sort of “Tragedy” has been done too often before
Annie R.: They don’t strike us. The elaborate pun
is generally an irritant Mark Time: Imitations of
the “Rubaiyat” are fatally easy; but simple as the
thing is, you go all out of tune Colin B.: Verse
not up....George M.: “Let No Man” misses....
Mallee Hen: “Treasure” doesn’t sing as it should. . . .
Zibantu: None of them move us. .. .M.A.M.: “The
Reason” and “Winter’s Nights” fail A.G.S.
(Yarra): Doesn’t say anything new and isn’t ve y
convincing Muriel W.: Even if your dream-love
is “mysteriously long” he won’t do in that verse
E.C. (Arncliffe) : Doesn’t make much of a yarn....
L.W.N.: “Fatalism” makes no appeal to us....
R.S.A.: See if you can splice up some of the we k
places in “Tramp.” It is worth while S.E.P.:
The form isn’t bad; but the thought has the old-age
pension Karoola: “Wine of Color” not our kind
of drink Cook: Too small L.F.R.P.: Ditto...
Chick L.: And another George E.: There’s a
story in “Blue Pills” ; but you’ve buried it. . .Cygnet:
The B. is a poor market for vers libre, this paper’s
idea being that tripe is tripe even though the
cook cuts it into coronets C.E.C.: What makes
you think we’d print rubbish like that?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.*
A.C.: It fails gracefully. Get in more animation.
. . . Laura H.: Some promise there. Work on quietly.
....Harry P.: That’s the right spirit. Plug away,
though there’s nothing doing yet...Nancy G.: Pleas-
ant humor, but the silhouette is too small....
W.A.H.: More animation... .F.C.: The small boy
with his tongue out suggests a hanging. The young-
ster behind the tree is much better drawn and the
picture composes well.... G. A.: Your cartoon
idea falls down hardest when it has to
represent a woman who is very much alive
by a labelled bone over which two dogs are
snarling... .E.K.: Your nice little bear might find
a home in some other gum-tree... .S.O.R.: Pity that
johnnie’s tailor made his tail-coat out of galvanised
iron. .. .B.E.H.: Both sailor and airman suffering
from paralysis. .. .Rosey : It crashes. .. .B.McP.:
Doesn’t amuse us.. .Irene M.: Can’t prophesy. Copies
are not a fair test. . . .H.G.B.: First attempts are
generally painful. This one is agonising... .M.G.:
Useless. .. .G.C.: Humorous animal drawing has been
done so well everywhere that the beginner in this
line has a long road ahead of him.... R.C.: Two dis-
mal men who seem to know they have been badly
drawn. .. .R.F.McL.: Thanks, but not eager for sec-
tarian cartoons... .John E.: Buy some Indian ink
and Bristol board. Fuzzy pencil drawings on thin
paper, which has been folded over to go into a
small envelope, take the direct route to the office
tomb.
What is it that brings gladness and smiles
To the pioneers in the Pinnaroo lands ?
For years they have gone through hardships and
trials,
The land cleared with their broad and sinewy
hands.
When grit and smiles have won
With the glorious rains and shining sun,
Turned these into golden fields,
Now you will see and hear the rattlings of wheels.
Will ever one forget these hard and well-set,
These men determined so to win ?
To battle through to sink or swim—
With seasons that, come dry or wet?


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted ,
with Wireless Telegraphy. labines-de-
Lu&e. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
• ‘"'irate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
tares,
Apply
Orient s.n. co., Ltd.,
I'el.—City 4246,
424?,
4BlO.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu I—*San 1 —*San Viancisco,
Vosemite Valley—Niagara Vails,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER 20,
SONOMA.
10.0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAHBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX' STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street,
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING .BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, tinder
agreement extending to .Tune 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. . . 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. • • 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
l ion. G. IV. Gray, M.L.C. : .lames Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. . . . . . . £200,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets), Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
. Manager: M: B. Finney.
LOJfbON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
grants drafts
on Australia, New Zea- |
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great :
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
receives deposits
at Interest for j
fixed periods, and ,
transact* all other usual Banking business.
Shipper, etc
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
RETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 11.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World*—the Canadian Rockies is on
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Throngh bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, October 11.
R.M.S. TOFUA, from Wellington, November 12.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, Oct. 7, Nov. 4.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
• Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
TIIEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MILTIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers earned.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers Of 10,000 and 14,500 ton.-,.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Direr tors
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. rainier, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London-,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
” Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
aoiaao avaH ■
qi]MouiuioD
sank ot ßustralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
32% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.0.M.Q.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping.
•.. S. ;; C ,
iasMass, •saws*
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
BUSHU MARU, early October.
KOSOKU MARU, end October.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 RING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4X66, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line
Pty., Ltd., 61 Pitt
St. (Tel. 7566).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Howard Smitji,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684).
Adelaide Steam-
ship Co., Ltd.,
22 Bridge St.
(Tel. 9520).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221)..
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street.
(Tel. 10684).
FOR BRISBANE,
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Glad-
stone, and at Townsville for outports).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
’Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
tCarries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
{Carries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
§Carries Ist and 3rd-class passengers.
Huddart Parker Lin
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. _ ,
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Oollins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE. THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.—AII Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
(nter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address-
“lroquois.”
Macdonald. Hamilton S Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co.. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
lilUckheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steainship Co.
VGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritime® Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.s. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Amimeinentat.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE MAN FROM TORONTO
SATURDAY NEXT, AT THE MATINEE,
For the first time in Sydney, the altogether different
comedy,
TOO MANY HUSBANDS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
T IV °LI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
in London’s Latest Musical Success,
THE GIRD FOR THE BOY.
“IT’S FRENCH—IT’S NOT RUDE.”
Prices as usual.
HE U M a .1 E S T V ’ S. S V D N E V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
YES, UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
Plans at Paling’s.
IC I TEIt I O N THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AT 2.
The Great English Naval Drama,
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY.
Producer: GREGAN McMAIION.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
UNION PICTURE Til HA TR E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL MATRONS’ DANCE.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
OCTOBER 15. Tickets 12/C each.
IN AID OF MEMORIAL PLAYING FIELDS.
Tickets obtainable at Paling’s, The Australia, Senior
Prefect, The School, or Committee.
ING’S THEATRE. M E I, It O U R N K
Lessees: BAILEY A- OBANI'
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8, JOHN D. O’HARA in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
THE GONDOLIERS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 2,
MRS. DOT.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Proprietors: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
EVERY EVENING AT EIGHT. NO MATINEES
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-WATTS in
HAMLET.
NEXT PRODUCTION, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Box plan opens October 4. Box plan at the Pianola.
Special concessions to parties of Students. Seats may'
be reserved for first-night performances throughout
the season.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
"pHE BOSS C O C K I E,
DUE AT MELBOURNE OCTOBER 16.
“THE TANK’S FULL.”
JOVVN
HA EE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2.
RETURN OF HENRI VERBRUGGIIEN
AND THE N.S.W. STATE ORCHESTRA
OF SO PROFESSIONAL MUSICIANS.
Plans at Allan’s.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
THE VIRTUOUS VAMP.
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
M OYT'S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
* * Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
TUTS WEEK’S FEATURES:
A WILLIAM RUSSELL COMEDY-DRAMA,
LEAVE IT TO ME,
and
PEGGY HYLAND in
BLACK SHADOWS.
Prices as usual.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
“Ross”
Celebrated
x 8
Field
Glasses
“Ross” Field Glasses are the best
the world produces.
Have a linear magnification . . 8 times
Surface magnification ... 64 times
Diameter of object glass .. 1 inch
Luminosity * . .. g.
Angle of field .. .. 50°
Visible field at 1000yds. . . 110 yards
“Ross” Racing Glasses are THE BEST pos-
sible. We carry all their models and sell
them at the English catalogue prices only,
with 15 per cent, added Customs and im-
porting expenses.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Australasian Wholesale Representatives
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
Ross Ltd., London,
25 8 25 Hunter St., Sydney.
m
Q
Tht WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
iSSEEI
mm
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under; sanction of the Attorney-General)!
Drawn OCTOBER 30, 1920.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by A. O. and J. O. Paxton,
of Cairns, Queensland, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1920.
Results of Ufa wing will be advertised in The Bulletin on
Thursday, November 4, 1920. To any person forwarding
stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
j
Hercules Oil Engines
tl'his Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH 3IODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting); starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4,5, 6£ and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET. BRISBANE.
(Trams pass near by.) Works—Yeerongpilly. [2
Dependable Guns
0**k
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION. *
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
"SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
820. The Cert Co.’S D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ’
Delivered, 3^5/12/6
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered £6/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS 8 RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman’s
Mecum.
‘‘SURE
Guide.
Vade
barrels, both choke, top
patent fore-ends, highly
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
engraved, matted rib, weight about 741 b. Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. tOd. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
JthacaJfieUL
U 9. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.1j.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2}in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Jlb. X? l llf I
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid, 9t*lo/IQ/"
82.
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight . ■
about 71b Freight paid, 5/*5/“
Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun 4 sit s I
Freight paid, 5/*5/"
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2£in. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jlb Freight paid,
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 2y 2 d. extra). Small sample, 1 }£<!., post free.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid ease-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 631 b. Gun can be taken apart, same a£
BB ”Ejector, 65/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
. JxlicJfc. Simmons fid,
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
J BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


DO YOUR MEALS FIT?
If not, follow Mr. Charles Villiers’s
advice and take a Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabule after eating.
I want to write and tell you how
good . I think your Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules are, for I am in
a position to say, having suffered
exceedingly from Indigestion, and
trying them I found them to be the
best Remedy ever for Indigestion.
Whenever I have a big dinner at
the hotel or elsewhere, I always
have a Digestive Tabule afterwards,
and therefore never suffer any ill-
effects from same. Why anyone
should go about troubled with indi-
gestion whefi such a Remedy as Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules can be
obtained is more than I can under-
stand. I can assure you I can
heartily recommend them, for I know
they are good.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) CHARLES VILLIERS.
1 Rosebank Street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
Mr. CHARLES
VILLIEiBS
(from a photo by Monte Luke).
Make Your Stomach Strong and Healthy.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules digest what you eat, and allow you to eat all the good,
wholesome food you want. If you are suffering from Indigestion, you will be surprised at
the speedy relief they will give you. If your ease is of long standing, it will require a
reasonable time to effect a remedy, for Nature cannot replace worn-out tissues with new ones
by magic. But when, by the use of this preparation, the stomach is given absolute rest, and
abundant nourishment and reconstructive materials furnished, recovery is certain and permanent.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules. Price 1/6 and 2/6.
<S»SHELDON'S
Price 2/6
Citroen
Citroen Gears on 1200-h.p. Electrical Haulage, supplied for an Indian Mine by
Messrs. Sandycroft, Ltd. 'ihe large Citroen Wheel is built up in five parts
(centre in halves and rim in three segments), and weighs 9 tons.
British-Australian
ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
National Mutual Buildings, Corner Collins & Queen Streets, MELBOURNE.
Box 1303 G.P.O., Melbourne. ’Phone, Central 4031
N.S.W. Agents—Austral Engineering Supply Co., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents—Parsons & Robertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
on electrically-driven tube-mill
by Messrs. Ernest Newell &
Co., Ltd., for South African
Gold Mine, 130 h.p.; Single
Ratio 17 -1; Ring-shaped Wheel
in Halves; Double Herringbone
Teeth; Pinion Solid with Shaft.
Large numbers of similar gears
have been supplied.
The King’s Wedding Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DUSTY roads as the crowds drag home
that travelled this morning clean and
fast:
Sunset touches a distant dome, twilight falls,
. and the King has passed ;
A beggar whines at the chapel door, and a
torn w r hite favor is on the floor.
The alleys darken with fog and night, the
river creeps on its serpent way;
There’s a red splash over the fading light,
as though blood dripped from the heel
o’ day:
Broken blossom and shattered staff, an empty
goblet, a worn-out laugh.
The bunting flaps in the tired breeze, green
leaves shrivel along the lip
Of the glimmering fountain amid the trees,
and, like the wreck of a nameless ship,
The flagpoles over the roof are cast—the
tide is out, for the King has passed.
A w-indow shaped like an oubliette, with a
candle fluttering in the draught,
Where a face like a mask of death is set —
was there ever time when it blushed
and laughed?
There are other windows, but they are fast.
Just one is wide — and the King has
passed.
There’s a garden out from a city wall, with
secret corners and jasmine bowors,
And the light of the honey moon will fall
on a marriage bed that is looped with
flowers,
For over the bridge and the cobbled way
the King rode home with his brjde to-
day.
There’s a gloomy arch in the city wall where
steps lead down to a sunken well;
Gold fungus-stains on the pale stones crawl,
and the water drops like a tolling
be 11....
How many deaths has this woman died since
the Great King passed with his virgin
hride?
The candle gutters, and smokes a shroud;
the fog from the lanes comes rolling in.
She does not murmur nor sob aloud: she
was soft for loving and sweet for sin.
Was it sin to yield when the snare was cast?
But the man forgot as the monarch
passed.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Jones the Great.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. JONES was speeding his annual
ten days’ leave in a cycling tour of
Northern N. S. Wales. After some
hours of pretty tough pedalling he reached
the cheerful-looking village of Tatham.
“This is all right,” he thought. “That pub
looks good, yet not too good.” He shivered
as the memory of a recent experience passed
through his mind. On the eighth day of a
ten days’ holiday one has to be careful in
money matters.
As Jones alighted from his jigger at the
door the landlord emerged and eyed him
with rural caution.
“Can I stay here to-night?” the traveller
asked.
“Don’t know as you can’t,” the landlord
responded.
“Is there a safe place where I can put my
bike?” (When only two out of twelve in-
stalments have been paid, one has to be care-
ful about one’s machine.)
The landlord led the way to an empty
stable. “Put it in there.” Then he locked
the door, pocketed the key, and remarked,
“I’ve had cyclists before. Now, in there the
bike is safe and my bill is safe.”
Jones felt slightly annoyed, but he did
his best not to show it. He wished to avoid
ill-feeling being expressed in the landlord’s
bill. Half-an-hour later he sat down to ham
and eggs. Having finished a large and
leisurely tea, he took a stroll round the
village, and then returned to the smoke-
room of the pub. It was his custom when on
holidays to ignore the fact that he yvas a
clerk in a Sydney store. As he entered he
wondered what character he should assume
that evening. Already during this tour he
had represented himself as a wealthy man
doing the country sights. This, though de-
lightful, had proved expensive, as he had
been almost compelled to stand three rounds
of drinks, and the publican had not for-
gotten it in his bill.
Fate settled his destiny for him. When
he gave out his cheery but patronising “Good
evening, gentlemen,” the company was deep
in discourse about cricket. For a regular-
reader of the sporting papers, and a man
who had seen test matches, it was easy to
triumph over that company. Only the post-
master was able to contend on anything like
equal terms. But Jones eventually proved
too much for him.
“I’d like to know who this chap is, laying
down the law to us?” said the postmaster.
A great idea occurred to Jones. “If you
really want to know,” he said, “my name is
Macartney. Perhaps you’ve heard of me
playing for New South. Just having a tour
round these districts to freshen me up for
the match against Victoria next week.”
A stout man in the corner butted in.
“Look ’ere, you chaps, here’s our chance. If
Mr. Macartney ’d be kind enough to bow-1
for us against Coraki to-morrer we’d give
them beggars such a doin’ as they’d never
forget.”
“I would with pleasure,” replied the
obliging Jones, “but I have to get away first
thing in the morning. Horrid strain, these
big matches. Ido wish I could have a good
sporting game.”
“It’s a sporting game, if you like, when we
play Coraki,” said the stout man. “Yon
should have been ’ere when Bill Brown was
give out leg-before, an’ shied his bat at the
umpire.”
“He deserved all he got,” declared Brown.
“I saw his mouth shaping to say ‘Out!’ be-
fore the ball came. I’d give a bit to beat
that Coraki team. Playing two parsons, if
you like! How can a man keep wickets when
there’s a parson saying, ‘Now, language!
language!’ when you get a hot-un in the
ribs? Couldn’t you manage it —nohow?”
The distinguished cricketer shook his head.
“Must get away by 10 o'clock,” he said
decisively.
“Match starts at 11 —if you could just
give us an hour ! I’ve got a bob or two on
our team, and there’s nothing I know worse
than losing money.”
“Very sorry, but quite impossible.”
So Jones sat and discoursed on cricket,
with modest reference to his own per-
formances. Even the stern postmaster
succumbed to his fascination, and asked the
privilege of standing the great N. S. Wales
bowler a drink. Jones graciously granted it.
The stout man had slipped out of the room,
and was deep in discussion with the landlord.
“You trust me,” said the latter. “I’ve had
enough of them Coraki chaps—telling me
me spirits are watered, my oath ! I’ll do it.”
* * # *
Next morning after a good breakfast,
Jones strolled over to the ground. He made-
one or two suggestions, which were welcomed
and adopted. When 11 o’clock drew near
he expressed sorrow at having to leave.
He’d just love to have a few overs on that
pitch!
At Jones’s request the landlord went to
the stable for the hike. He fumbled for a few
minutes, and then turned back in consterna-
tion. “That lock’s jambed again! I can’t
open it.”
“Let me try—there’s a knack with locks,”
said Jones. He tried for ten minutes, but it
wouldn’t budge.
“I’m very sorry, sir, but if that door was
broke in it would costume a couple o’ quid to
replace it. I’ll do the best I can for you.
Here, Jim, you clear up to Casino and bring
back the locksmith. Shake it up ! And tell
’im he’s got to be ’ere somehow by three.”
“Most annoying,” complained Jones.
Just at that moment Brown and the stout
man, both in full cricketing rig, strolled up.
“What,” said Brown, “you can’t get away?
Well, of course you’ll give us a hand now.
It would fill up the time nicely.”
“I should like a game, but I’ve no cricket-
ing things with me. If I can give you any
tips”
“That’s all right—we’ll fit you up in two
acts.”
Jones trembled in his shoes. If he fled
he left his bike behind. If he played—well
he didn’t know what would happen if he
played.
“I don’t think it would be well if I played
in my own name,” he suggested.
“Gawd, no—we couldn’t get our money
on. What name shall we say?”
“Jones,” he replied, gloomily.
“Here they come!” as a brake hove
round the corner.
The postmaster was elected captain for
Tatham, and Coraki chose one of the par-
sons. The parson hoped the match would
be “fought keenly but not bitterly, with due
regard to the umpire’s decisions.”
“I’m glad you’ve been cautioning your
umpire,” said the postmaster. “Now, shall
we toss for innings?” Tatham’s captain
won. He turned anxiously to Jones. “Now,
sir, would you like a bowl at them right
away?”
Jones had no such desire. “Take first
innings,” he advised. “The wicket may be
worn later on.”
“Right, then you and I’ll go in.”
Jones trembled. “No,” he protested. “I’ll
go in last to keep myself fresh for bowling.”
Relieved for the time being, he took a seat
on the bench with the other players. At 99
for 9 wickets he had perforce to go in.
Luckily his partner was bowled first ball,
and Jones returned to the pavilion over-
joyed that he had not to face the bowling.
Lunch then came on, and with it a gleam
of hope. A huge black cloud appeared in
the west. If it would only rain before the
meal was over! But the parson interfered.
“Hurry up, you fellows, we want our innings
before the weather breaks.”
“Come along, boys,” called the postmaster,
as he pulled on the wicket-keeping gloves.
“We’ll have them all out before the rain
comes. Now, Mr Jones, place the field as
you like, but the best way to my mind is to
clean bowl them.”
Jones thought so too. The only trouble
was how to do it.
The parson took his stand at the wicket,
and prepared for the first over. In a
“dearly-beloved-brethren” tone he asked,
“How’s that for centre, umpire?” Jones took
the ball, as it was too late to run away, and
decided that he must strain a muscle of his
bowling arm in the first over.
“Play!” cried, the umpire. The bowler
slipped slightly, and the ball pitched half-
way up the wicket. The parson jumped out
fgr a hit over the boundary, but the ball
bumped something and trickled slowly past
his bat into the stumps.
“Beaten by a thing like that!” exclaimed
the parson. “Tush, tush!”
“Play the game!” exhorted the postmaster.
“That ball would have beaten better men
than you—it would have beaten me. Regular
googly.”
Brown, who was in the long-field, turned
round to the spectators and inquired,
“Who’ll lay three bob to two now?”
The next man came in. Jones tried to
repeat his miraculous ball, and consequently
sent down an ideal one to hit. The batsman
slogged, and it went soaring into the long-
field. Brown tried to get out of the road,
but the ball struck him fair in the wind, and
in the agony of the moment he held it.
“Got him lovely!” cried the captain.
“Brains, I call it. Put the fieldsman just
where it would fall into his hands.”
After , brandy and praise had been bestowed
on Brown, the third batsman signalled that
•he was ready. The captain walked up and
whispered to Jones. “This fellow’s got spec-
tacles on —bowl at his head.”
The bowler did his best to follow out this
humane advice. But the ball pitched short,
the batsman leaped out to smite it and
(Continued on next pase.)


SPRING SKIN
TROUBLES.
REFUSE WORTHLESS
SUBSTITUTES.
s
£
iO»
Pimples, Boils, Rashes, Spots, Eruptions and
all Spring Skin Troubles Soothed and Healed.
W‘™s vour d ° r U &1 f lil u e . r °V? h P atches on yow forehead, or cheek, or chin?
W -r%X d “ W tr y „ b u y r S' S?
fier y ?cr m :; d “ 8 d e e r .reS” £ “** *"»” « * “° f
Nothing is more important than the way we should treat this skin disease. It is not the slightest use relying
upon any internal remedy or external application if these do not reach the impurity ibeffV ?s *I
cause of the disorganisation in our delicate and intricate tissues.
Zam-Buk is the ideal Spring Skin-Balm. Zam-Buk is so refined that the tissues absorb it readilv and
i s medjcmal essences at once attack the disease below the surface. Wherever the skin has been injured by accident
or eaten by disease, Zam-Buk promotes the growth of new and healthy tissues in a quick and natural manner.
PIMPLES ON HIS FACE.
Mr. J. Farish, of Berry Street, Spring Hill, Bris-
bane, writes:—“Pimples broke out on my face and
merged into one another until the whole of my face
was in k very inflamed and unsightly condition. I
tried various remedies, but the eruptions got worse,
and made me worry fearfully. Then someone recom-
mended Zam-Buk. As I continued the treatment
the irritation was stopped, and the sore places dried
up and gradually disappeared.”
Zam-Buk is a speedy cure for
Piles, Eczema, Boils, Running Sores,
Sore Legs, Sore Feet, Ringworm,
Barcoo, etc. As an Embrocation for
Strained Muscles and Tendons, Zam-
Buk, rubbed well into the parts af-
fected, is unequalled. As a House-
hold Balm for Cuts, Burns, Bruises,
Pimples, Blackheads, Rash and Bites
of Insects, Zam-Buk is invaluable.
From all Chemists and Stores, at
1/6, or 3/6 large family size.
PAINFUL BOILS CURED.
Mrs. H Martin, Hastings, Despointes Street, Mar-
rickville, Sydney, writes:—“Some time ago my hus-
band had an outbreak of boils on his shoulder. The
boils were much inflamed, but after bathing them we
found that the most soothing treatment we could
?u 8 t( ? a PPj- v Zam-Buk to the swollen surface.
When they had di scharged. and the cores had been
extracted, the places healed nicely under Zam-Buk’s
soothing influence.”
CHILD’S FACE SORES.
Mrs. W. Donnelly, 183 Stanley Street, West Mel-
bourne, says:—“A number of very irritable running
sores broke out on my little boy Jack’s face and be-
hind his ears. The outbreak became very serious, and
caused no end of concern. Being recommended to
use Zam-Buk, I purchased a pot and applied the
balm to the sores. All the matter was drawn out,
the inflammation was allayed, and the eruption healed
nicely without leaving any marks behind.”
SOOTHES AND
missed. It rose quickly and struck the post-
master full in the mouth, and bounded back
into the wmket. “How’s that —stumped!”
he howled, with his mouth full of blood. Up
went the umpire’s hand.
Then by a special dispensation of Pro-
vidence the rain came down. The °-reat
bowler timidly looked out of the club win-
uow, and prayed it might continue. It did.
It rained till the Coraki chaps entered their
brake and drove away.
, remarked Jones, “I wonder if that
locksmith has come yet?”
.AJ? • explained the stout man, “that was
a little ruse of mine. We wanted to beat
chaps that ba(J j got the lan(J _
lord to hide the key. Hope you’ll excuse the
liberty I took, Mr. Macartney.”’
. Jo nes rode off like a hero, the crowd cheer-
mg him on his way. Someone called out
after him, ‘ Bowl like that against Vic., and
u . V. n easy.” The landlord even over-
looked his bill.
Mr. Jones was at business again on Mon-
day morning. “Done a bit of cricket for a
country team on my holiday,” he said. “Thev
would have me Just had three balls, and
dld the hat trick, and then”
, You woke up, I suppose,” interrupted
the cashier.
C. E. B.
Mee Ling’s Gift.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
XT OU will bring to me ten bags of rice,
1 the iron pestle which Ah Foo gave
you last Christmas, one of your
two carrying baskets, and the five tael you
have hidden under the rush mat in the
corner.”
So spoke Lee Fung, Officer-in-Waiting to
Lu Manchu, mandarin of the province of
Yunnan.
Mee Ling bowed his head before the inevit-
able, grovelled on the floor, and backed out.
“And do not forget your daughter Pan,”
added Lee Fung, stopping Mee Ling with an
imperious gesture.
“So, Excellency.” The face of Mee Ling
blanched under the yellow, he grovelled once
more, and disappeared.
When Mee Ling reached home he was a
broken man. Ilis wife, his daughter Pan,
Pan of his heart, he waved them aside.
Sitting inconsolable midst the squalor of his
mud and rush hut, he brooded over many
things, but most of all over the unholy
greed which drove an official, slaked unto
beastliness with the good things of the world,
to desir£ the few miserable trappings whichj
though mean, kept body and soul together for
one of his kind and dependants. It was
beyond understanding. All except the girl.
That he knew and understood.
Seated in the foetid murkiness which the
light of day never brightened, Mee watched
the past go by his dingy door-yard in ghost-
like procession. From the days of earliest
memory he had toiled with bee-like industry,
always just managing to live, always stalked
by the grim spectre of starvation. One day
ot rest and the grim spectre would have
swooped down upon him, and he could never
have freed himself from its grasp. In all
hi.s existence there had been no events. His
marriage; the birth of Pan; the death of
mother—they bad just come and gone,
deflecting him not an hour from the primal
duty ot seeking the wherewithal to live De-
prived of knowledge and the means of
acquiring knowledge, he had groped his way
through life in sublime ignorance, knowing
nothing of the world about him except that
it was a vicious world at whose word the
poor quaked and became poorer than before
In a vague way he understood that there
was a Government, though who made it and
just what it was he did not know. He only
knew that it appointed officials, gorgeous
liveried ghouls who lived by extortion black-
mail and threats. He recalled the time
when, as a stripling, he had followed, tremb-
ling, in his father’s wake to attend a sura-
mons of Chung Die, Officer in Waiting to
the predecessor of the present mandarin His
l at T e J c ad been rash on that occasion. He
had defied the mandarin’s vassal and refused
to hand over his few worldly possessions,
lhe next morning his father was found
strangled in the river, and so the mandarin
got las belongings just the same. There had
been many such secret killings; in fact, they
continued until nien learned wisdom, and no
longer refused the demands of the officials.
but and hovel it was the same.
Should a man earn a little more than
sufficient to keep body and soul together (an
aimost unheard of happening) the officials
demanded the excess, following up the de-
mand by confiscating the tools of trade lest
the toiler should repeat the miracle and lift
his head above the squalid poverty and de-
gradation which enveloped him.
And now his own turn had com.e. Ten
bags of rice, his treasured iron pestle, his
carrying-basket, the five tael which he had
saved against the time Pan should marry
and, final catastrophe, his beloved Pan her-
self. At any rate, the five tael would not
very much matter if Pan were gone. He
had hoped to make it her dowry. Her mar-
riage bed would now be outside holy wed-
lock, and there would be no dowry, except
the dowry of the knife. But no no! Ten
thousand times no! The honor of a man’s
house did not call for the death of a fallen
daughter when the fall from chastity was
demanded in the name of the Government,
was not of the girl’s own seeking. The
gods would absolve him from that!
Bowed and crushed beneath the blow, Mee
Ding, in halting phrase, made known the
calamity to his wife and daughter, and
then sat far into the night brooding on the
matter and seeking a way out. But there
was no way out. . Refusal to give up the
girl would only bring about his own death,
and that would avail nothing, for Lee Fung
would still get the girl and there would be
none left to avenge her. In the deathly
stillness and abysmal blackness of the hovel,
just_ before night gave way to the on-
coming hosts of dawn, Ling, seated, bent
double, with his face resting on his knees,
felt a tiny hand and then another seek his
own calloused paws, a cheek, soft as the
down of the young peach, nestled under-
standingly against his own weather-bruised
face, and the hair of the only head he had
ever worshipped brushed against his ear and
fell caressingly down the side of his neck.
In a wild, pulsating surge of joy and
remorse, Ling grasped the soft, yielding body
of his daughter to him, pressing his poor
old leather-like lips again and again on the
upturned faee in the darkness.
It was the last time Mee Ling caressed
his daughter.
On the following morning a messenger
arrived from Lee Fung, and Ling watched
everything his life possessed depart from
him, followed by the curious eyes of the
swarming onlookers who crowded into the
doorways of the mud and rush hovels like
rats emerging from a sewer.
That night the news which had tingled
in every ear for weeks but to which no man
had ever given voice again went round.
There was to be fighting. Already General
Fu was marshalling his army, and was to
set out with the dawn for the North. Most
assuredly there would be bloodshed ; a little.
And loot; a great deal. The magic word
was on every lip. The silent voices passed
the word around. Never had there been
such loot awaiting the reaping. Even after
the army had taken its fill there would be
enough and to spare for the followers who
hovered in the wake of the army like scav-
enger-wolves in the track of the killers.
Giving ear to the tempter, Ling decided
to join the army. What mattered it what
he did now that the flower of his life had
been taken, to say nothing of the 10 bags
of rice, his wonderful iron pestle, his best
carrying-basket, and his five tael? All that
remained to him was his wife and his life,
both of which would be his still when he
returned. Men of the army seldom failed
to return from the North.
But for once the Northerners did not
live up to their record. They were most
unchivalrous. Where there should have been
loot there was starvation and disease. And
instead of drawing up in fine array and glar-
ing at each other for several days before
going their separate ways, the two armies
fought hard, pitched battles, wherein many
Southern men were killed and many more
cruelly mutilated and insulted. Register-
ing _ a vow that he would lodge a protest
against such ungentlemanly behavior, Gen-
eral Fu took the swiftest horse and retreated
for the South, ahead, far ahead, of his mer-
cenary legions.
Of all the retreat, Ling alone was happy.
He was ridiculously happy. With his left
hand bandaged, and his rusty rifle gripped
firmly in his right, he marched with the
rabble, laughing when they grumbled, sing-
ing when they blasphemed, tightening his
belt another hole when hunger tickled his
stomach. And all the time he nursed his
damaged hand, spurning the few odd offers
of assistance in healing which he received
from his compatriots. His undivided atten-
tion was bestowed upon that hand. He
kept the bandages always clean. At every
fresh village he craved clean cloth for his
wound, often accepting a clean wrapper in
preference to food.
„ r 4 d * ter . the last Straggler of Gen-
Inn had lim P ed tome, Lee
to Lu Manchu, was
surprised by a visit from Mee Ling. Often-
times had one or other of the numerous
P^ ir *f“ en , h f e had robbed threatened him.
but never before had any one of them offered
{? & r him - To be allowed to assist
in the cooking was Lings request; he would
labor for the mere sustenance of life for
himself and his wife. Wages were of no
account since the Noble the Officer-in-Wait-
ing had seen fit to take their Jewel from
them, lo be near her was all they craved.
Poisons were not unfamiliar to Lee Fung
He had used them often himself when the
opposition was stubborn. And a cook’s
labors were too closely connected with a
man s future to run unnecessary risks in
the culinary department. Ling was set to
cleaning the mandarin’s stables.
But Ling was resourceful. Having set
his heart on cooking for Lee Fung, cook he
determined he would. It was only that that
had sustained him during the rush from the
North when food was a novelty and a man’s
life ot less value than a grain of rice By
artifice and in secret he worked himself into
the good graces of the cooks, who often per-
mitted him to assist over the bubbling caul-
drons of rice and broth in the kitchens. At
such times Ling returned to his stables in
happy mood, but a close observer would have
noticed that after each visit the width of
his hand bandage was diminished, and he
did not sleep well at night. Also he used up
many fresh bandages.
Living in the same household, Lee Fung
saw much of Ling; so much that he ceased
to notice him except when it became neces-
sary to kick him out of his path. There-
fore, Lee Fung was not at all surprised on
looking up from the table at which he was
writing one day to see Ling grovelling on
his face in the doorway, craving an inter-
view:
“Would the Noble the Great Officer-in-
Waiting have sufficient graciousness to accept
a gift, a small gift, from his humble and
devoted servant?”
Bidding him stand erect, the Officer-in-
Waiting condescended to do so. Gifts were
always acceptable, however small.
Stepping forward Mee Ling thrust his
hand into his pocket and threw upon the
table before the Officer’s nose a naked human
finger. It was a strange finger; very dead
and stiff, and very white. It was silvery
white, and covered with scales like the body
of a fish. It was altogether an unpleasant
gift.
Skidding his chair across the floor, Lee
Fung jumped back from the table, his face
grey and purple in turn.
“Leprosy! Dog!” he screamed. “I’ll
have you quartered alive and thrown to the
pigs for this ! Guard ! The Guard !”
As they dragged Mee Ling through the
door he still talked, calling his words across
the room to the cowering figure against the
opposite wall. “ ’Twas a present I brought
you from the IJorth, Excellency. And ’twas
the last. You have already had the others.
In your rice you had them!”
G. L. THOMAS.


i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
chain drives
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
‘'an visvivyxsnv jo ’os mvss
3SDOH3HIIS3M 3HI
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offioe— 93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office- 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Xo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wh Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ MALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A,
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
eSJ PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N-S.IV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL” AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian ‘Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Good
for
teeth, appetite
digestion
The new flavour
that everyone likes.
Obtainable everywhere—
3d. per packet of 6 bars
Delicious, long-lasting,
refreshing
V
Send 3d. for
trial packet to
WRIGLEY’S
Box 2376. G. P. 0..
Sydney
Made ID AUSTRALASIA
The
flavour Lasts'
Trt*
Tumo»>*
Vl®
GV?£i
f|£3
pES
■n't
ssm§
A-21
MAKE
A NOTE
OF IT
m
z
£
TT\
Jammm.
lii n
ARE WORTH
MAKING
A SONG ABOUT
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will seud you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint.- It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what ««-• stn>
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect ’
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic*
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15«6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England*
Insist on ** Singleton’s ”-r-refuse all substitutes.
IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thbughts are required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both,
your health andl
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young —purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dos* —Small Price.
[lf any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fahcy. write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
vS;
:
k
-5
Remington,
Repeating Rifles
These nfles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means‘for safe shooting.
for Shooting Right
Ask your dealer to show
you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25, 30, 32,
35. Catalogues post free
upon request.
THE REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, P. 0. Box 686, Australia


NCR'
LEATHER
LTI
Have You Introduced It to
Your Machinery Drives ?
As soon as you get your pulleys acquainted
with MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-
HIDE BELTING you will find your profits
begin to increase, and your problems to melt
away to a minimum. Its flexibility, dura-
bility and gripping power render it
indispensable to the up-to-date manufacturer.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &00., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
-‘tf Ort*°
Quality and quantity seldom go hand in hand. It
is only possible where exceptional facilities and
years of experience have brought about a-condition of utmost
efficiency. In all our
BRIGHT SHAFTING
you obtain not only the maximum quality, but on comparison our
prices will be found the lowest. We have large stocks at present.
For full particulars and prices write to Desk “A.”
The Eagle GSb Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne.
groorlie.
le.
264 Latrobe Street, Me
46 Boulder Road, KalgroOrlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins&Co. Ltd., Adelaide
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
We are Sole Agents for “ Fibroiite
Australian-made Genuine Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Slates, “Fibro-O” Cold Water
Paint, and suppliers of the following build-
ing materials. We can consequently quote
you at the best-obtainable prices.
“riBERIiIC" Building Board.
“CREOWOOD” Stains.
“REXIL.ITE” British-made Roll Roofing
and I)ampeourst*.
“CERTAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
3-PLY W ood Innings.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc.
Write for Price List and Particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Phone 5466 (6 lines).
58t-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Wouldn’t You Like for Your Very Own
A HANDY WORK BENCH & SET OF TOOLS
Ho.
1. Set of 6 Double-ended
Spanners.
2. Hack Saw Frame & Blade.
3. Set of 3 Carbon Scrapers.
4. Outside Calipers.
5. Inside Calipers.
6. Oil Stone.
7. 6in. Steel Rule.
8. Small Adjustable Spanner.
9. Adjustable Pipe Wrench.
10. Medium Adjustable Span-
ner.
11. Hand Drill.
12. Piclt-up Extension Pliers.
13. Ball Pein Hammer.
14. Soldering Iron.
15. lOin. Half-round File and
Handle.
16. Sin. Flat File & Handle.
17. 7in. Square File & Handle.
18. Small Screw Driver.
19. Earge Screw Driver.
30. Marking Scriber.
21. 4in. Rat-tail File.
23. Small Cold Chisel.
23. Large Cold Chisel
24. Punch.
25. Bench Snips. '
26. Cutting Pliers.
27. Gas Pliers.
28. 3-pint Oil Can.
29. 1 pkt. Spring Washers.
30. 1 pkt. Cotter Pins.
31. 3 Sheets Emery Paper.
32. Bench Vyce.
miv
5.%
' : " f I im'Hfoltf ' <
”-, ’
■ ;,
■ ■ :•',: .
similar to this illustration?
Or perhaps you would like to make a gift of one to your boy or relative for
Christmas?
My! How pleased he would be!
Wouldn’t his eyes shine?
The Bench, as j r ou see, is MOST SOLIDLY and FIRMLY made. Look at the
3in. x Sin. Legs, and the heavy 2in. Bench Plank; the back is attached by
Screws, and is made from lin. wood.
The measurements are, from Floor to Top of Bench, 2ft. 7in.
WIDTH, 3ft. 6in. From FRONT TO BACK, Ift. 9in.
The HEIGHT of the back is 2ft. sin. from top of bench.
The TOOLS shown are NOT Toys or Rubbish, but the very best quality, the
same as those which skilled Mechanics buy and use, and are enumerated on
the margin of the illustration.
Price of Bench andi Tools as illustrated, £lO complete
Packed and delivered free on Rail or to any Suburb.
Others tools can be added if desired at extra rates.
It is confidently anticipated that there will be quite a demand for this Work
Bench and Tool Outfit, especially towards Christmas, and, as orders will be
executed in strict rotation, it is advisable to place your order early, to ensure
delivery to time. For Christmas Gift orders state about when you would like
the goods to be despatched from our Warehouse.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 . PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
t
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}& inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondenee invited.
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
High - Pressure Brass work
to All Australian Water Board Standards
Also Guaranteed, Factory Tested, Medium Lines.
PUMPS-
Alderdice Limited,
Warrnambool, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS-
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
DELCO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
.Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4'/ 2 hours.
Erticulars from sole AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBIRTOX. FRANIvI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
M. 53
Laundry and Dry-cleaning Machinery.
Australian Manufacture.
'fcf OST laundry proprietors and managers are hard-pressed just now to hold present business
:v B and meet the regular increase owing to. the shortage of labor skilled in laundry work.
The machines that Ave offer are built on the latest English and American designs; they make
possible a maximum output with a minimum of oneratives.
Ask us to quote for single pieces or eomplete equipments, including
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Drying Tumblers, Power Ironers, and all supplies
for the Laundry and Dry-cleaning Trade.
Prices are attractive. Call and inspect.
PARKE (Q. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, GO CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
