

SUN-RAYSED BIRTHDAY STUNT.
Julius
Vv
\
•S'
&
s
ir
Ssk
a>\
JT*
t£
11
r
A
/
ft
■JS
s>
i££
mM
m
r. :-.*■■ *-»• .■ , . , ".,t
w
0 N
n
Sunday
WEBBUABY
iO
Sunday
JANUARY
«at
**££ * a y
3
&
&
A
**
*
**
What is the Most. Popular
Birthday - Date in Australia
£2200 First Prize, £lOOO
CASH. CASH.
Just Fill in Your Name and Address and Your Birthday Date.
£.lOOO Cash
First Prize,
BESIDES £lOO every month
for 4 months, and £6OO in
other CASH PRIZES, and -
£2OO for Grocers and Confec-
tioners.
THE ENTRIES Themselves Will Decide.
A Girlie aged Six is just
as likely to Win as a
Bachelor of Ninety-six .
All You have to do is the Work of 10 Seconds.
First Prize,
3LIOOQ Cash
ALSO
OTHER PRIZES
£l2OO CASH.
CONDITIONS.
Attach to Entry—Grocer’s genuine docket at retail rates for
31b. SUN-RAYSED' FRUITS (lib. each of Currants, Sultanas
and Lexias) or for three 1/- Cartons of the ‘‘GOOD LITTLE
.NORMEY” Confectionery (crystallised or chocolate covered).
-If “Normeys” bought from Confectioner • who gives NO
DOCKET, then attach sections of thr&e empty cartons instead
of docket (that side of the carton on which is printed the
reference to the Recipe Book).
Dockets must state “SUN-RAYSED” FRUITS or “NORMEY”
Confectionery, otherwise entry will be disqualified.
Competitors may send in as many Entries as they please, each
entry to have docket attached. The entry to be in the form
below, and may be written, printed or typed
The Final Cash Prizes are:—
First Prize £lOOO Second Prize £250
Third Prize £lOO Fourth Prize £5O
and Four Hundred Prizes of 10/- each.
FIRST PRIZE, £lOOO CASH, will go to the Competitor—born
on the most popular Australian • Birthday Date—who has the
most entries for the whole contest.
The other Frizes in their order to the other Competitors (bom
on that date) in proportion to their number of entries.
The Entries themselves decide which is the most Popular Aus-
tralian Birthday Date. Therefore, enter early and often, and
assist your own DATE.
FIRST
PRIZE
Fill in your BIRTHDAY DATE and your name and address —
v DATE. MONTH.
I was born on the ■ day of
and on that day each year I will always eat some SUN-RAYSED
FRUIT or “NORMEY” Confectionery.
Mr. T
NAME— Mrs. 1
Miss [
Address (rery clearly and fully) ..'
STATE
Pest to C. J. DeGaris, Director of Pubiieitj;, A.D.F.A.,, Mildura, Yic.
Competitor MUST insert actual date of his or her birthday (day
and month). THE YEAR NEED NOTtBE MENTIONED.
FIRST
PRIZE
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2097.
Thursday, April 22, 1920»
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
USE
Swan m
SW/
INK
>
USE
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action “sa
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
42*9
CAPTAIN
nmw,
VCTO
AH Hotels and
Licensed Stores
0
WHISKY
Mild, Mellow, Fully Matured
—a Liquor you’ll Appreciate
jkljhl
The Car
for the
Owner-Driver
ritish.
The
rd
LIGHT CAR
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections niay be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Being- destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
* 16 a Tin.
® \
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Preyention of
Consumption.
The Red Page
Bolshevism at Work
While Bolshevism was being accused of all
possible crimes and English politicians were
still to be found who desired to send big
armies to Russia to* wipe it out, W. T.
Goode, Principal of the Greystoke Place
Training College, London, and formerly
'Head of the Men’s Training Department,
Owens College, Manchester, went as special
correspondent of the Manchester Guardian
to find out what Lenin and his fellow-con
spirators were really doing. He w r as
man who, as an educationist was speciall
qualified to investigate many departments o
Bolshevik enterprise; and having previousl
observed conditions in Finland and the Balti
Provinces he already knew something of revo
lucion and its likely results. He went ful
of prejudice against the new system, prt
to find the stories of atrocities anc
calamitous confusion verified; and he re
turned without having one word to sa
against Bolshevism except that it was, no
yet wholly successful. Of the people i
charge of the revolution he writes :
.The men in power are sincere, fanatical if yo
will, in the strength of their adherence to the prii
ciples of the Revolution)... .They arc capable adniir
istrators, profiting by the hard experience they ar
gaining, quick and supple to make the changes whic
that experience indicates.
And again:—
These men are profoundly simple in their dress
food, life. In that respect they are true to th
principles they profess. The alleged orgies are lies
The truth is that they live a life of work to whiel
that of a convict is child’s play.
Goode went to see Lenin, and the questions
he asked were answered plainly, directly anc
satisfactorily. The most remarkable an
swer was to the question regarding propa
ganda. As a Government, they were, Lenii
said, prepared to undertake that there shoulc
be no official Bolshevik propaganda in the
rest of Europe; on the other hand, Russ if
would permit the British, French anc
American Governments to carry on’ propa-
ganda of their own in that country. The
offer seemed more generous than fair.
Much information ,is given about the Bol-
shevist and industry. The remarkable fact
was that work was going ahead, friction was
avoided, great new schemes were in pro-
gress and the socialistic management had
stimulated emulation among the workers
The writer was surprised. He was much
more surprised when he came to investigate
education. He found stupendous efforts
being made to lift the people, a splendid
enthusiasm for knowledge growing among old
and young, and an attention to the child both
in and out of school which has no parallel
anywhere else. The boy must not leave
school until he is 16; and up to the age of
18 two hours of his working day must be
spent in study.
Art and the drama have been given their
true place. The art schools are flourishing
more than ever, and the students, stimulated
by the revolution, are expressing themselves
in striking futurist work. The decorations
of the cities on special occasions have been
left in their hands. The theatre has been
nationalised, except in the case of the grand
ballet and the Moscow Art Theatre, which
go on as before. The audiences are more
enthusiastic and the actors are delighted
with the change. Seven theatres for the
children alone are open every Sunday after-
noon in Moscow.
All the art treasures of Russia are safe
and guarded with zealous care. According
to Lunacharsky, the head of the Education
Department: “We have here the materials
of a splendid culture, which we would not
willingly see die.”
In connection with transport, wonders have
already been done. Supplies have been kept
up at the fighting front, the people have
been fed, and some kind of a passenger ser-
vice has been maintained, though the rolling-
stock was short seven years’ ago and much
has been worn out since.
Everything possible, in Goode’s opinion, is
being done in the matter of national hy-
giene. For instance-
The most elaborate arrangements have been made
for the provisions, of accommodation for the mother
eight weeks before the birth of a child, with a
corresponding period after the birth, which period
can.be extended, if necessity arises, until the child
is weaned. While in hospital the mother, if she be
a workwoman, is still paid, the care bestowed upon
her as a mother being a gift of the State.
And again:
Sick children can be taken there and left; mothers
can, in infectious cases, remain with their children
if necessary ; there is a clinic to which some hundreds
ot mothers go daily for advice, receiving at the
same time the appropriate medicines and in some
cases the appropriate food for the child; a hall in
which some instruction is given by the doctors to
audiences of mothers in the management of their
children, with an extremely interesting set of dia-
grams and a small museum. With all this there is
also a special department for the reception and
sterilisation of milk, which is given out to the
mothers requiring' it.
And so the astonishing story runs on from
point _to point. Goode asserts that every
investigation showed eager, enthusiastic men
and women of the highest qualifications
working at full pressure for the Millennium.
Not that all these-workers are Bolshevik. A
great many of them fail to see eye to eye
with Lenin, but that is no bar to their em-
ployment. What they are all anxious for
is the success of the Revolution; for no
one in his senses wants to go back to Czar-
ism. Those who cry for monarchy are in
reality only lifting ia wail for their old
possessions and privileges. The Revolu-
tion has hit the rich very hard; a man at
death can leave only £2OOO to liis relatives.
There have been confiscations, too; and the
Bolshevik leaders are the readiest to admit
that wrong and terrible things were done
in the first turmoil. Now the turmoil is
over and in this writer’s view the recon-
struction promises to atone for all its ex-
cesses.
As a last word the author sums up the
Russian position:—
Bolshevism is a spiritual phenomenon, and as such
is impervious to bullets. The Soviet Republic may
be destroyed, but Bolshevism would not, for that,
disappear.,. .The blockade is therefore the greatest
enemy of the purpose of the blockade, and the whole
policy is futile.
A book in which the author sticks to his
text without a line of mere verbiage, and
which therefore compels attention. (Bol-
shevism at Work, by W. T. Goode; George
Allen and Unwin, London.)
Rupert Brooke
I join issue with Francis Brien (Ret
Page 4/3/’2O), and claim firstly that Brooke
is a major poet, and secondly that Brien is
ludicrous when he belittles the other verse
in Georgian poetry for the purpose, appa-
rently, of definitely assuring Brooke’s place
among the minor's.
Brooke is a poet; but even this, for the
moment, is clouded by the altogether irre-
levant revulsion of some from the fulsome-
ness of patriotic sentimentality, and the aca-
demic timidity of others who, seizing his 27
years as an easy escape into compromise,
allow him but the promise of a poet. What,
then, is the rabbit-fence between minority
and majority? Mere volume of output?
What giants Longfellow and Southey!
Volume of major poetry? There are mas-
queraders in the ranks, Wordsworth, Cole-
ridge and who not else! Output of poetry
bearing the stamp of high finality? That
Keats died at 25 and had a minor range
compared with Shakspearc, does it deprive
him of greatness? That Wordsworth’s great
work falls in volume far short of Swin-
burne’s, does that make him a lesser poet?
What is great poetry? Not thought alone
nor verbal music, nor mere depth of feeling,
but a perfect fusion of substance and form,
an ultimate inevitable expression in metre
presenting a perfect image that ravishes the
aesthetic emotion, fills it with the feeling
of completeness unweakened by any side-
thought of comparison, and leaves it with
the momentary exhaustion born of satisfac-
tion. Much of Brooke’s later, and more
than a little of his earlier, work gives all
this- His imagery! In single lines, in
single words, there it riots. No, riot is
the wrong word ; for there is the rhythmic
progression of imagery to a final composite
whole that shows the controlling intellect.
Each of his best sonnets, has the solidity of
form, almost physical, distinguishing all
great poems. His verse! It is here Bi’ooke
in the' end showed his mastery. The rough-
nesses of “scansion in Isolated lines disap-
pear when one*speaks the verse.
The truth is, Brooke with sure instinct
or reasoning, whichever you like, knew that
poetry must speak, and as J. C. Squire has
put it. “he used no word and no construc-
tion that was beyond the range of intelli-
gent English conversation.” He is weakest
when least conversational. The very pauses
are the natural breathing rests.
The inevitableness, the finality of his fin-
ished work—his sonnets, the few lyrics, such
fieces as “The Fish,” “Tauhere Mamua”—
is the ultimate test of his artistry. A little
song is published for the first time in the
collected edition :—•
The way of love was thus: »
He was born one winter morn
With hands delicious,
And it was well with us.
.Love came our quiet way,
Lit pride in us, and died in us,
All in a winter’s day.
There is no more to say.
One feels there really isn’t.
The touch of genius in him was the deli-
cate balance of keen intellect and fine emo-
tion, and a perfect expression sof this bal-
ance. His intellectual mastery of words
gave clear thinking, his wizardry with vowel
sounds mqde the music. In this last, if
anywhere at all, Brooke was a pioneer. The
structural form of English verse, the metres
of it, there is little enough left in either
depth to be explored; but in the exploita-
tion of vowel overtones lies the future.
Keats had the mastery of it
Magic casements opening on the foam
Of perilous seas in faery lands forlorn.
The best of Brooke is all overtone -
A tunnel of green gloom, and sleep
Deeply above; and green and deep
The stream mysterious glides beneath
Green as a dream and deep as death
and a hundred other finely various examples.
The color sense of words is all in their
vowels; and Brooke’s chromatic scale is
tropically rich.
O’H AONIAN.
What Language Is Made Of
Owen Morgan (R. P. 11/8/’2O) has treed
the wrong ’possum in supposing that one
visualises words, rather than objects, in the
course of ordinary speech. I * talk four
languages fluently, and my experience is
that not merely the object, but a feeling,
emotion, sentiment or attitude towards an
object is the motivating force which results
in speech. For example, the object known
as a German soldier may find expression in
my speech as a Hun, Boche, Schweinhund,
Tedesco, Jerry, Fritz, etc., according to the
emotion or mental attitude of the moment: I
visualise the object first, and the sentiment
thus aroused determines the word or phrase
to be employed.
How does an infant learn to talk? Per-
haps Owen Morgan will maintain that a
child visualises the word rather than the
object! But Owen Morgan is not the onlv
.victim of this false psychology : the system
of teaching foreign languages by phonetics
adheres to the same fallacy, the ohild being
taught to write his new language in the
hieroglyphics of the phonetic alphabet. This
system has been discarded after painful
trials in France, Belgium, Italy and else-
where, but is still* in use in the . State high
schools of N. S. Wales. The auditory
memory of'a child is highly developed in
learning its mother-tongue, while the visual
memory remains undeveloped; hence the
common difficulty in learning to spell. - A
language, foreign or otherwise, is most
readily learned by expressing one’s senti-
ments, feelings and emotions in that
language, the object being visualised, and
not the word. Phonetics, as taught, only
succeeds in putting obstacles in the natural
mental process of language-learning.
FRANAGHEE.
(Continued on page 24.)


a,
’ace
rxfc'M.
FXG4B.—Maid’s Coat and
Skirt Suit iri Navy Gabardine,
the coat fronts and back trimmed
with Black Braid and buttons.
The skirt is simply cut, inverted
pleat clown front and back,
slightly gathered at back.
Lengths, 34 36 in.
Price, £9/17/6.
FX6s9.—Maid’s Serge Costume, well-designed
revers, embellished by an all-round belt and self-
covered buttons. The coat is well lined throughout in
White Merveen. The skirt is plainly but smartly cut.
In Black or Navy. Lengths, 32, 34 and 36 in.
Price, £7/5/-
rXtSIS,
FXOS9
FXBS9.—M a i d’s Thre e-piece
Skirt, fashioned from Black Cheviot
Serge; self-covered buttons adorn both
sides, the wide belt is trimmed with
Black Silk Braid.
Price, 63/-
FXB49.—Maid’s Smart Black
Serge Skirt, enhanced in a singular
manner by the inverted hem and wide belt,
button and buttonhole trimmed. It is
slightly gathered at back,
Price, 75/-
FXIBIO. Navy Poplin was chosen for this chic little
Winter Frock, with its pleated skirt, pocket
trimmed, and novelly-treated front. Portion of the
front, collar, turn-back cuffs and covered buttons are
fashioned Of smartly-colored check. Sizes 24, 27, 30 in.
Price, 27/6.
C^fCatc/s^fear
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS
of <3 —
OTHERS who appreciate to the full style
plus economy in their own attire, and who
therefore know the advantages of shopping
at Anthony Horderns’, have realised also how
excellent is the service “The House of Economy”
renders in outfitting their daughters. From the tiny
tot up to the “sub-deb.” age, the needs of little women
have been studied with expert and careful attention
—and with unequivocal success.
r
■amm
1X659
1X647
Send for a copy of our Autumn and Winter
Fashions—posted free any where.
We pay postage on all articles of wear to
any part of the State.
■m
ZJ
m
Li
rx
1810
FX.720
/)
6^
F.X. IS 16
FX72O. Serviceable and effective Velveteen Frock, box pleated
down front, and featuring a novel yoke empiecement, which, together
with the all-round belt, is button trimmed. The collar is plain, but
smartly cut. In shades of Brown or Navy. Sizes, 24, 27, 30, S 3 in.
Price, 82/6.
xten
rx&oi
PXB O 1 . Handsome Ma i d’s
Robe, in heavy-weight Serge,
pleats deeply designed, yoke at
back, whilst box pleats, pockets,
and black silk braid offset the
front; the large roll collar, fancy
button-trimmed cuffs, in Navy,
Black, or Fawn Gabardine.
Lengths—42, £6/17/6; 45,
£6/17/6; 48, £6/17/6.
PX647.—Smart Suit, in Navy Gabardine, original
design collar, novel patch pockets, decorated with black
cable stitchings, button-trimmed cuffs. Box pleats
fall from the empieced belt; the skirt is plainly cut,
with an all-round belt. In Black or Navy. Lengths,
34 and 36 in.
Price, £B/15/-
IX5+2
>O6
FX342.—Maid’s Skirt, in Gabardine,
empiecements and strappings at sides, with
wide, button-trimmed belt; is quaintly
finished in shades of Fawn or Mole.
Price, 59/6.
FX2oB.—Maid’s Skirt, fashioned of
fine Coating Serge, panelled back and front,
and pleated at sides; self and colored
buttons. In Black and Navy.
Price, 69/6.
FXIBI6 • —Most effective, this little Velveteen One-
piece Frock, with its deep fancy collar, belt, and
hem embossed in self colors. In shades of Navy,
Brown, Rose or Saxe. Sizes, 18, 20 and 22 in.
Price, 14/11.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


Keep a
KODAK
Diary
-r
iu
,
*v
In the years to come it will be a wonderful pleasure to look over the time that has passed and
have Kodak pictures renew happy memories of interesting events.
You can always carry a Vest Pocket Kodak with you ready for use. It is as convenient as a
watch, unobtrusive, and fits snugly in a man’s pocket or lady’s handbag.
It is a simple-to-use, compact little instrument with all the reliability of the larger Kodaks, and makes delightful little pictures
2\ x If inches of such clearness that they may be readily enlarged. It is splendid for scenes, groups and portraits, and can easily
be used in crowded places without attracting attention. Price 47/6.
Other Kodaks up to £lB. Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK. (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney ; “The Block,’’ 284 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane
The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth
“The Kodak Comer,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
.3DIOA SJBJSVW SIH
FAMOUS BRITISH COMPOSERS
, a. ....
PyT, •' ' :
*
e Harris, IS
SIR EDWARD ELGAR.
conduct their own works specially for
Ilis Master's Voice
Many persons fortunate enough to attend the concerts of the
N.S.W. State Orchestra have expressed their desire to hear also
the famous orchestras of London. Here, then, is the opportunity
which, like all great innovations in the musical world, is introduced
by His Master s Voice.” For the convenience of those who want
a small but noteworthy collection of remarkable records we have
prepared a Decorative Album containing Eight Twelve-inch
Orchestral Records of personally conducted triumphs by Sir
Edward Elgar, Edward German, Sir Frederic H. Co wen, Sir
Alexander C. Mackenzie and Sir Charles V. Stanford.
ALBUM OF EIGHT RECORDS, as under, £4/5/-
The SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, conducted
by Sir Eli WARD ELGAR, O.M.
2- —Cockaigne Concert—Overture.
Edward Elgar
3- —Wand of Youth: (a) The Tame Bear; (b)
The Wild Bear (music to a child’s play).
Second .Suite—Nos. 5 and 6.. .Edward Elgar
The SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, conducted
by EDWARD GERMAN.
2-0716—Much Ado About Nothing: No. 1, Bourree.
Edward German
2-0717 —Much Ado About Nothing: No. 2, Gigue.
Edward German
The SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, conducted
by Sir FREDERIC H. ( OWEN.
2-0711—The Language of Flowers: Ist Set,
Gavotte —Yellow Jasmine ... F. H. Cowen
2-0715 —The Language of Flowers: 2nd Set,
Waltz Viscaria F. H. Cowen
The SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, conducted
by Sir CHARLES V. STANFORD.
2-0718—Suite of Ancient Dances: (a) Sarabande;
(b) Morris Dance C. V. Stanford
The SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, conducted
by Sir ALEX. C. MACKENZIE.
2-0719—The Cricket on the Hearth—Overture.
A. C. Mackenzie
For Sale, separate from Album:
10/- each.
The SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, conducted
by Sir EDWARD ELGAR, O.M.
2-0519—Bavarian Dances. No. £.
2-0511—Pomp and Circumstance—March.
2-0512—Salut D’Ainour.
2-0721—Ballet Music from “Colombo.”
2-0750—Rustic Dance (Old England).
2-0711 —Three Dances, “Nell Gwynn.”
2-0803—Morris Dance and Gavotte, “Tom Jones.”
Complete Lists of many
others, and name of
nearest dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mar};.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“fits Master's Voice”
Reyd. Trade-mark.
«BBS
m


jkl
For Kiddies
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse—your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE HOME;
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
376
vssii:
: x-7*
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores.
Australia and N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address or
by your local agent.
Used the
World Over
m
MOTOR
...CARS
m
m
m
-
Df B. Allen's
PS%\Qm m , fa
WALNUT plcket
th&
SUNSHINE PURSES.
A Necessary Addition to a Smart Attire,
Ladies’ Dainty
Leather Motor
and Sports
Hats, will not
spoil with rain.
They are so
fashionable.
■xmL..
rs>-
>i ;y. to,
■jiM, Mil
Try our
Lay-by System.
Special
Attention paid
to Orders from
Country
Clients.
X66.—Beal Morocco “Sunshine” Purse, With three compartments, and nickel-
mounted centre pocket. Real calf flap pocket outside. Handle on back. Size Siin. x3l in.
Price 21/- each.
EXPERT MAILORDER CO.,
G.P.O. Box 2575.
Also obtainable at THE AMERICAN BAG STORES, LTD.,
ONLV ADDRESSES:
Corner Pitt 8 King Sts.; Strand Arcade, Pitt St.; Sydney Arcade, George St.
i
i
i(ij
y/y
THE KIND YOU WANT.
If you are looking for Chaffcutter Knives that will cut quickly and
uniformly, without constant resharpening, specify
“An Eagle on a Globe” Chaff cutter Knives.
Made from the highest quality steel, and specially tempered,
they always hold their cutting edge longer than other knives.
All sizes in stock to tit Cliff & Bunting, Bentall, Buncle and
Richmond & Chandler machines.
Prices promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlle
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
Slipper-time is Smoke-time.
In those restful hours after dinner l\ man just naturally
NEEDS the companionship of a good pipe.
The utmost you expect of a pipe will be realised if you
choose a
—the perfect pipe.
Many shapes. Sold everywhere.
is
Australians on Service Found
That There is
NO BRANDY LIKE COGNAC BRANDY
and NO COGNAC
BRANDY LIKE-
MARTELL’S
-czzETi cap
g|c^-cJ3=^
c:—□ oac-
NIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER. NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
-czrQ o n^o
hjklhj
kl
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Road.
I have all the joys of earth !
All the joys ’twixt death and birth
Are mine, who have straight limbs and strong
And the good road to w r alk along!
For every morn as I go swinging
Down between the thrushes’ singing,
my mind as free as air,
And beauty walks beside me there.
All the wayside grass is blurred,
With purple weeds that, zephyr-stirred,
Shifting, swaying in a crowd,
Seem the shadow of a cloud.
Swallows taste the air’s delight,
And starlings somewhere hid from sight
Make as if all sweet and sharp
A player sighed upon his harp.
Runs the russet road between
Plane-trees robed in apple-green,
And gardens still at sleepy ease
Hedged with oleander-trees,
Past delightful things and small
Crannied in an old stone wall,
And stark white creepers on old fences,
Down to where the bay commences.
And there are scarlet buoys afloat,
And many a tiny-masted boat,
And sand-hills gleaming distantly,
And one great ship at rest from sea.
Yet delight is not all done!
For turning back, when home is won
Like yellow lanterns in the gloom
Sunflowers light my little room!
I have all the joys of earth!
All the joys ’twixt death and birth
Are mine, who have straight limbs and strong
And the good road to walk along!
N.S.W 7 .
NINA MURDOCH.
Partnership.
In my garden one would walk
When the green rain stayed
With an emerald on the stalk
And a topaz on the blade,
And the great sun played
Through the doves’ w r arm talk.
To and fro, to and fro
In the glinting and the glow,
Shining wet and shining blue,
Went a bird that dipped and flew;
And the feathers of his dress
Were the hue of happiness
(Which in gardens such as mine-
Oh, the boughs’ wet caress! —
In the shadow and the shine,
With the earth’s brown power
Wedding sunsweet to the shower,
Is the hue of holiness).
In my garden One would walk,
And His step seemed near
Through the doves’ warm talk
And the vine’s green tear.. ..
Under archings, blossom white.
I shall meet Him in the way
Where the roses step light
Up the sapling ladders grey....
Drip and drop through the scented air
Sink in the soil, fall on the sod—
His sun and my garden, share and share—
Here I meet God.
N.s.w.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Corinne.
I shall remember all my years
This is the day that Corinne died;
When I have put away my tears
And every foolishness decried,
As one who, deaf, yet subtly hears,
“This is the day that Corinne died.’’
The rose she gave me lies between
The ledger pages. Audited
The last account of Might Have Been;
For Corinne, like the rose, is dead.
A tapping bough sways bright and green
Against the window near my head.
My rows of figures on the page
The profit and the loss disclose;
They struggle as against outrage
Between the petals of a rose.
Does Death to Imve pay any wage
Along the path that Corinne goes?
Husband and child will follow her—
Oh! Corinne tasted all of life f
Yet. did she guess at passion’s stir,
Though she was mother and a wife?
The rose I could have given her
Would have held Corinne back to life.
O Corinne, on my day-book see
The sudden blister of a tear!
The ledgers—you laughed merrily
And dubbed me serious and austere,
While from your white breast’s sanctuary
You plucked a rose and set it here.
And I am balancing the books;
And where the leaf-blurred shadows sway
(The wide path by the river looks
As fair and cool as yesterday),
With hearse and mourners black as rooks
They carry poor Corinne that way.
Poor, because Life has cheated so!
The stars had other tales to tell
And something went awry, I know,
For two who could have loved so well.
But I am swiftly glad to show
A balance on my side as well.
For he has lost who could not gain—
The rose she gave to me was red;
Its shrivelled petals keep their stain.
Green leaves are whispering near my head
Of summer worlds a-reel with pain.
Kisses unkist. .. .and Corinne dead!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


INCREASED PRODUCTION
or. in other words, of applying our energies so efficiently that we can get through
twice the work we used to do in any given time with half the fatigue.
If our manufacturers are to reap the full benefit of the new tariff, anything
that tends to increase production should be snapped up with avidity. Australian
Producers —and that in the final analysis means every Australian man and woman
—must realise that to hold their own in this new world of “after war” they must
have the best equipment and tools available for the industrial and commercial
contest of coming years.
No matter what you have decided to manufacture, YOU MUST HAVE THE
NECESSARY ADVICE in the selection of plant, equipping of same, and instruc-
tions in the efficient handling after installation.
Consider what this means. The plant produces work immediately on modern
lines, giving the users a quick return of their capital outlay, and SUPPLYING
AUSTRALIA’S NEEDS QUICKLY.
ALFRED HERBERT LTD., of COVENTRY, ENGLAND (one of the
largest machine-tool makers in Europe), are now in a position to offer their
most modern types of machine tools, representing the very latest methods in all
spheres of manufacturing.
Mr. Chas. E. Young, who was for over 20 years on the technical staff of
Alfred Herbert, Ltd., has been appointed their sole agent for Australasia, and
offers the following complimentary advice.
Rearrangement of your present plant.
Balancing of your plant to bring each section into line.
Complete plants, giving guaranteed output on all details of the work
you have under consideration.
Fixing of limits, for interchangeability, which depends entirely on
your class of work.
Finally, TO HELP AUSTRALIA TO MANUFACTURE.
A FEW OF OUR SPECIALTIES.
Horizontal Milling Machines.
Vertical Milling Machines.
Capstan Lathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning Machines.
Ball-bearing Drills.
Coventry Self-opening Dieheatl
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing Taps. <
Bausli Multiple Spindle Drills.
Brown Bevel Gear Shapers.
Carpenter Taps and Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostat Copying Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking Machines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments.
Fellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank-pin Turning Machines.
Heald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Chucks.
Jackson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinkers.
Maiden Screwing Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Lodge & Shipley Lathes.
Lumsden Grinders.
Mohack Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding Machines.
Queen City Shaping Machines.
K. G. Herbert Hack Sawing: Machines.
Rotofiani Hardening: Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Seriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Fierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tangye’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Van Norman Combination Mills.
Worcester Drill Grinders.
Willard Lathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD
Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England,
Telephones: City 10108, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: "Uathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used. ABC, Ideber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
r
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
gj Cleans the teetf) wifboul' scratching
Sweetens rbe breach .hardens rbe gums
MADE
IN
IS*
ft/
W
Australia
If your chemisf or storekeeper
cannof supply, send ft in stomps
h. ROCKE.TOMPSITT£ CO. MELBOURNE.
' mfm
ru
TO
D
55
JW
in
anmiiiummuniimiiMiiiimn
IN
ham
bacon, veai.
hgue.
and
to
If You are Staying at the Seaside
and have some of your meals on the beach,
you will relish “Rex” Camp Pie. There is
nothing like this tasty and nourishing delicacy
to satisfy that wonderful seaside appetite.
For your next open-air meal take a tin of
“Rex” Camp Pie
and see how everyone enjoys it. 'Rex' Camp
Pie is made from tender selected meats, cor-
rectly cooked and seasoned, then packed in a
delicious jelly. Its very appearance is hunger
provoking.
“Rex” Camp P e is so economical too—enough for five
persons in each (in. It is all ready to serve. Buy a tin to-day
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 1274
HUDSON ESSEX
Super-Six Super-Four
SWEEPING VICTORY.
These two champion cars carried all before them at the great Victorian
“Victory” Hill-climbing contest.
Held under the auspices of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria, a large
entry, comprising the most prominent makes of cars, were keen rivals for
supiemacy in every event.
HUDSON SUPER-SlX—Made the fastest time of the day.
ESSEX SUPER-FOUR-—Sensationally established a record that was not
equalled by any other car in any event.
Performances Speak
Here are
TRADE EVENT,
cars 18.5 h.p. and over.
ESSEX. . .Ist on Formula.
ESSEX. . . 2nd on Formula.
ESSEX. . .Ist Fastest Time.
LADIES’ EVENT,
open to all cars irrespective
of h.p.
ESSEX. . . 2nd on Formula.
ESSEX. . . 2nd Fastest Time.
HUDSON..3rd Fastest Time.
OWNER-DRIVER EVENT,
driven by chauffeur.
ESSEX. . . Ist on Formula.
Louder than Words,
the Facts.
OWNER-DRIVER EVENT.
cars 18.5 h.p. and over.
ESSEX. . Ist on Formula.
ESSEX. . .2nd on Formula.
ESSEX. . . Ist Fastest Time.
ESSEX. . . 2nd Fastest Time.
CHASSIS EVENT,
open to all cars irrespective
of h.p.
HUDSON Super Six, Ist.
Fastest Time of day.
ESSEX. . .Ist on Formula.
HUDSON and ESSEX Cars competing were absolutely
ordinary stock models.
Those remarkable successes, following freshly upon similar victories of these
champion cars in. N.S.W., proclaim them to be the invincible leaders of
EFFICIENCY in the Motor-car world.
A Triumph for the Hudson Compensated
Crankshaft.
This balanced crankshaft is an exclusive HUDSON patent. It scientifically
reduces engine vibration and produces enormous power. It is only obtain-
able in HUDSON and ESSEX cars.
HUDSON and ESSEX cars have created more official stock-car world’s
records than any other makes.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.-S.W.-, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.— N0. 2097.
THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1920.
I*MCE CD.
APRIL 25, 1915: “LEST WE FORGET!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Cos., Ltd., at the Office of the
Cos., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance. Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £ 1 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The emtents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
6000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without, stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.\;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
ii Kerk Street, Johannesburg ; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Cos., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Cos., !,!,! Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Cos., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; Western News and Publishing
Cos., 10 Third Street, San Francisco, Cal,, U.S.A. ■
J. Roland Kay Cos., 181/9 Conway Buildings, Chicago
U.S.A.; Liberty News Cos., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Uretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 21tli Street,
New T ork; Queen City News Cos., Randolph and
Clark Streets j Chicago j Golden Gate News Agency,
119 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square Neivs Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U'.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher Neivs Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu. •
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Cos., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Cos., Merchants
Singapore. ’
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Cos., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fui. — A. Barker, Suva; F. Gardiner. Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
’and, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
lboz., Ifd. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bloz. to 10oz..
3d.,’ lOoz. to 120 z., Hid,; elsewhere, !/o~z., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
INCREASE IN PRICE.
On and after May 6, 1920, the price
per copy of THE BULLETIN will be
NINEPENCE. A Plain English par. on
page 7 explains why.
Subscriptions payable in advance will
be:—
Post free in Australasia.
12 months £1 10 0
6 „ 18 0
3 „ 9 0
Post free Overseas.
12 months £2 0 0
6 „ .10 6
3 10 6
Subscriptions which have not expired
by May 6, 1920, will, of course, con-
tinue at the old rate.
THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1920.
THE TOO-MUCH-MIXED BROTHER.
“No individual can take any exception to the words
that are contained in ‘The Red Flag'.’ The . whole
phraseotogy of the song urges the working classes of
the world to be united. Is this a terrible thing?
As a matter of fact, the unity of the working classes
would mean the elimination of all wars.” — The secre-
tary oj the N.B.W. Labor Council on recent happen-
ings at Sydney Town llall.
The unity of tho world’s workers may be
briefly defined as a gross and shameful
treason against civilisation. Unity in the
long run implies equality. If the worker
of European descent, with traditions of a
capacity for self-government, proposes unity
with the Asiatic or semi-Asiatic toiler who
has no such traditions, he must give up his
attitude of god-like equality. He can’t be
accepted as a brother if he won’t touch his
brother with the end of a clothes-prop. And
equality connotes inter-marriage and the
disappearance of the pure white race and
the white civilisation; also it may mean let-
ting the semi-Asiatic failure manage white
affairs. The white autocrat, or aristocrat,
bad as he may be, is only an enemy in a
purely temporary fashion. He is capable
of complete conversion. Thus a Bona-
parte has been a very mild and ordinary
and non-aggressive member of a United
States Cabinet and he hadn’t even wealth to
his discredit. A Pai.eoi.ogus has been a
private and semi-Socialistic member of the
French Assembly. Yet the last great
Paleologus in history died fighting in gold-
and-purple bravery to defend his crown and
the remains of his autocracy. There is
even a Tudor leading the Federal Labor
party in Australia. Bonapartes and
Paleologi and Tudors can be converted
into ordinary, serviceable white citizens.
But the Asiatic proletariat who poured into
Eastern Europe (accompanied of course by a
handful of Asiatic aristocrats, but they have
long since disappeared) and upset the Scan-
dinavian States of Russia, made a change
in the Russian character which apparently
will never be repaired. It made the Russian
the despair of self-governing peoples, and,
despite the fact that he has now a mockery
of self-government, mostly under alien Jews,
he is the despair to this day. A similar
irruption into South-Eastern Europe changed
the centre of the world’s civilisation—in
fact, the place that was once the refuge of
all the civilisation that was left—into the
Balkan Question and the Balkan chaos and
butchery and melting-pot. The Turks
were and are in their way a most remarkable
example of proletarian rule. They never
possessed an hereditary aristocracy. Their
sultans have been mostly the sons of bought
peasant girls—proletarians almost to a
woman. They w r ere Prohibitionists long
before Prohibition was dreamt of among
Europeans and the dry cult of “Pussyfoot”
Johnson became a fashion among Aus-
tralian stop-work leaders. The bulk of
the Turkish land has always been State
property let out to tenants whose leases were
forfeitable if cultivation was neglected for
three years, and that sort of thing is alleged
to lead to prosperity of the highest kind.
At one time the blessings of this form of
government spread over the biggest empire
in the world, and the biggest the world had
seen up to then—an empire that knocked
Rome at its greatest into a cocked hat, and
made Assyria look like Old Dad’s selection.
But the men behind these beautiful-looking
policies—our international toiling brothers
from Asia —were incurably Asiatic, never
showing the faintest inclination to popular
control of affairs, and remaining stodgily in
the seventh century where they naturally
belonged. Looking at what Asia has done
to Europe—and in Middle Europe traces of
Asia extend as far west as Vienna, and from
there eastward the taint grows more obvious
till Asia itself is reached —the verdict is
that the white man of real European blood
should be very careful in his choice of
brothers, even if they are workers or stop-
workers or I.W.W.’s. Also the verdict is
that suitable brothers are mighty scarce, and
unsuitable ones so numerous that if they
get a footing and a welcome they may do
damage that will last till Judgment Day.
* * *■ *
Civilisation isn’t necessarily the imperish-
able thing that it is blamed for being. It
takes a long while to build, but it may vanish
very quickly and very completely. There
have been civilisations in Crete and Central
America and elsewhere which left no records
behind them save stones, so utter was their
vanishment. After the fall of old Rome
and the coming of the proletarian brothers,
who were by no means the worst sort at
first—after the irruption of fellow-workers
and the fall of an effete monarchy—it is
reckoned that 1000 years passed before a
yard of road was made in Western Europe.
Even that humble art was lost. But for
the durability of the old Roman roads the
forests might have cut the land into small
isolated sections inhabited by semi-apes. In
those days there was no second civilisation
to fall back upon across the Atlantic, and
all that man had gained since the days of
Noaii hung in the balance. If the whole
Roman structure had gone down in a heap
man might have taken up the thread of his
discourse where he left off on Deluge Day.
As it was, the theory has been advanced that
in a.d. 1050 Western Europe—-and Europe
was then the whole white man’s world—was
just painfully struggling upwards to the
point at which it stood about a.d. 150 or even
a.d. 50. Two things were to the good. The
old knowledge and the old civilisation held
out at Constantinople, like a fortified library
and university amid a sea of barbarism,
and sent out relief expeditions with informa-
tion to the rest of the almost lost continent,
especially to Italy. But there might not
be another Constantinople. Also the new
Church, with the aid of the surviving frag-
ments of the old empire, did a sort of cos-
mopolitan mission work —not the I.W.W.
kind —among the white races. But there
might not be another new Church. Despite
these accidental aids the art of thinking was
almost lost for a few centuries. It was
the Animal Age. If the Avars had swamped
Constantinople in the eighth century, or the
Turks had made their great success a few
hundred years before they did, there might
have been no printing to-day, and no known
Australia or America, and not much of any-
thing else. It was even a question at one
time whether plagues wouldn’t wipe out
the population of Western and Southern
Europe from which all our civilisation has
come, for the new toiling brethren were very
insanitary and had destroyed medicine. In
fact, they destroyed almost everything, in-
cluding geography and human ambition. A
good deal of the lost world had to be re-
discovered when things began to right them-
selves.
It is to their credit that the worker of
a.d. 400 or less didn’t invite the hairy, pro-
miscuous white or dubious ipan of all the
world and his concubine to come and help to
close up the factories where he made his
living, and burn his cities and burst up the
institutions which had taken so long to
build, and grab the management of things
into his hairy hands and his prognathous
jaw. No cordial invitation of that sort went
forth to all manner of brethren from Greece
or Gaul or Italy. If these bygone folk had
possessed the complete self-government that
Australia is blessed with it is hardly possible
to imagine that they would have schemed to
upset it and replace it by an oligarchy under
the control of the united sundries of the world,
any gorilla-like alien who would sign the
Stop Work pledge being eligible to come and
put his paw into affairs. It remained for
Australian Laborites to make a virtue of
inviting the very suspicious-looking stranger
within our gates. The International brother-
hood idea is not to any great extent British,
French, Spanish, Italian or Scandinavian.
It is mostly a creation of Eastern Europe,
where the blood is tainted, where the capa-
city for popular self-government has never
been exhibited, and where the mental stan-
dard of the people, barring a smattering of
foreign culture forced on them by partly
foreign rulers, is probably lower than it was
1400 years ago when the race was purer.
Internationalism with them means that the
people who apparently can’t do things cadge
for an invitation to come and manage and
muddle with the things that better folk have
done. Internationalism with us means that
the craziest section of the community is
willing to invite these applicants in as they
might invite any other army of mercenaries,
and is prepared to use them for purely de-
structive purposes —and then be used by
them probably for worse purposes. Over
much more than half of Europe, and over all
Asia and nine-tenths of Africa, nobody has
shown any high self-governing qualities to
lit him for promiscuous brotherhood, and
until he does something better than he has
done he shouldn’t be regarded as an equal
and should no more be invited to help with
our affairs than an ape should be called in
to criticise a Rubens masterpiece. The
white Asiatic or semi-Asiatic might not
make the utter smash of the white European’s
civilisation that it did a millennium and a
half ago, for the white European is stronger
now, but he would drag it down to a lower
level and keep it there. In Queensland,
where Russians, Hungarians and such-like
are strongest, the semi-Asiatic is dragging
things down already. He is convinced by
his own failures that every Government is
an enemy. He believes, out of his own in-
capacity for anything except submission or
crude violence, that there is no remedy for
anything save blood and arson and torture.
The eternal lesson is to be careful in
the selection of brothers and not to slop
around equality too lavishly among folk who
understand only serfs and grand dukes, and
who, having ceased to be serfs, promptly set
up as dukes.
GIVE THE ARMY A WELFARE
COMMITTEE, TOO.
It is safe to say that in no Australian public
institution does so much discontent exist as
in the Permanent Army. Ninety per cent,
of those who did good work with the A.I.P.
are justifiably disgusted to find themselves
back, as regards rank and pay, where they
stood in 1914. The risks they took and the
services they rendered have counted for
nothing. So wretched are the prospects, and
so embarrassing the present financial prob-
lems of many of the Duntroon officers who
did brilliantly abroad, that they are working
every known point to transfer to the
Imperial Army. That failing they will
become civilians. The Assistant-Minister
for Defence remarked in Sydney (13/3/’2O) :
The Australian permanent soldier has received no
increase in pay for the past 20 years, while during the
same time the salaries and wages of men in other
occupations have at least doubled.
This was accepted as a foreshadowing of
the Government's long-promised new scale of
pay and the hopes of the . Regulars soared.
The revised schedule appeared at the begin-
ning of this month, and, except that the in-
comes of certain very senior officers have been
largely augmented, the status quo is to all
intents and purposes maintained. In this
respect the Australian Army very much
resembles the R.N. as it was when
the war began. The lower-deck rat-
ings, and even those officers who were
below (sayl captain’s rank, had to
choose between celibacy and want unless
they had private incomes, or were lucky
enough to secure moneyed wives. The
remuneration of the A.B. was only a frac-
tion above that which had been fixed as a
fair living wage early in the 18th century.
Before the war was half through the R.N.
lower deck was in a state of simmering
revolt. It was in response to this develop-
ment —bluntly brought to the attention of
the Government by Navy members of the
House of Commons —that pay was raised and
the Mate Scheme instituted in 1918. But
the big change came in the spring of the
following year, when the Jerram Committee’s
report was acted ; upon and the pay of the
seamen brought to about double the figure
of five years previously. The Welfare Com-
mittee idea was next developed, and was
adopted eventually in the R.A.N. The
R.A.N. Welfare Committee’s activities have
been necessarily limited by developments on
the other side of the world. Indeed, since
the R.A.N. is at present simply part of a
big Imperial fleet, and since the latter must
be absolutely homogeneous, the Australian
Welfare Committee might just as well be
operating in England for all the benefits it
is in a position to secure Australian as
against British sailors. But an Army Wel-
fare Committee would be a different pro-
position altogether.
There is not the slightest reason why the
Australian Permanent Forces should follow
the British model in anything but establish-
ment and general training methods. The
A.I.F. co-operated successfully with British
units in France and Palestine, though both
its pay and its disciplinary system differed
from theirs. An Army Welfare Committee
could, therefore, consider representations sub-
mitted by the delegates of the other ranks
without any reference to conditions else-
where. The Naval Committee is authorised
to discuss, in addition to “promotions, uni-
form and clothing arrangements, deferred
pay and pay and allowances.’’ everything
which comes under the heading “Matters
affecting the - generals interests of the ser-
vice.” It plainly affects the interests of
the Military Service m Australia that thero
shouid be distinguished expeditionary fi P u
officers doing C.M.F. subaltern’s jobs at '
rate of pay which would be spurned h v u, d
average artisan. Also that there should hi
men who were good enough to cm 1
battalions in the field at work in our S
ment Forces as n.c.o.’s and even
But it is not only on such questions as
motion on a basis of merit, pay, living Son!
ditions and so forth that the ranker need,
a vehicle tor the expression of his view”
The Army is still back in the epoch of t C
Peninsular War, or earlier, in other respect.
Take, as an instance, the court-martial
tem. Under it, in all the English-snesW
armies, including that of the U.S A
sands were condemned before tliev h„i
voiced the pitiful defence they were eh*
the opportunity to make—pitiful beca.
most prisoners below officer-rank had either"
H defc ,!l d . themselves or rely on the service
ot a friend,” who, in addition often
being an amateur lawyer, was left in
doubt after the first five minutes as to t I
Courts hostility to his client. The officer!
who, as Judges, complacently handed m!
sentences of five, 10 and 15 yea™ peS
servitude—their previous training on At,
mental side having been confined in mam
cases to jobs in warehouses, drapers’ shorn
backblocks stations and the like—were V
doubt honest enough. Their whole tronll,
was ignorance of the elements of criminal
law and procedure and a blatant content
for the rules of evidence. They were rustic
Js P. with the powers of a Chief Justice.
Not only that, but they were called on i,
act as Judge and jury at the same time
Only one of the Entente nations has sys-
tematically investigated its court-martial find
mgs— namely the U.S.A. Colonel Anseli
who was Judge-Advocate-General of the
U.b. Army during 1918. informed the
Clemency Board winch was instituted la-
the War Department after the Armistice
that mihtary justice had practised injus-
tice [m the U.S. Army], in over 90 per cent
of the investigated cases, and that the sen'
tences imposed by it were over 400 per cent
higher than they should have been” There
is no reason to think that Australia’s record
is much better. Our system was in <ii|
essentials, precisely the same as the Ameri-
can system. It was increasingly distrusted
by the rank and file as the war dragged on-
and drastic reforms would certainly have
been needed to pacify the A.I.F. if peace had
not come when it did. Before a Welfare
Committee the men’s representatives would
be authorised to state the case of the other
ranks against the court-martial convention
And against dozens of other conventions
clung to by dullards and office-men because
they are conventions, but which have no
other justification than age. Their depar-
ting would for the first time in centuries
make volunteer peace-soldiering a desirable
profession for freedom-loving men.
* * * #
It will, of course, be claimed that tin-
soldier already has what amounts to a Wel-
fare Committee —that under Section 43 of
the Army Act any man who considers that
he has been wronged may take his grievance,
through the authorised channels, right up
to the G.O.C. himself. The provision has
a superficial appearance of even-handedness.
In practice it might as well be out of the
Act altogether. The type of soldier who
asserts his rights to the extent of pestering
a G.O.C. is abhorrent to the military mind.
His complaints are inevitably directed either
against the conduct of his superiors, or
against the working of a system which his
superiors have been taught to regard as per-
fect; yet they have to pass through his cap-
tain, to his C.O. and so upwards. And in
any event under the King’s Regs, “the com-
bined complaint of*several can never be per-
missible.” This shuts out the possibility of
complaint on such questions as pay and
promotion, to make no mention of the many
other questions which the sailor is now
literally encouraged to bring to the notice
of the authorities. Meanwhile the soldier,
like the sailor, is expressly forbidden to
give publicity to his grievances, either in
the press or through Parliament. The
A.I.F. did its little bit almost entirely
through the initiative of the “other ranks”
to help modernise the Army system. In Aus-
tralia’s peace Army, as in the one which
the Commonwealth put into the field, it is
the intelligent ranker who requires to lie
heard. Will the Government give him his
chance?
THE CONVICT (GOD BLESS HIM!)
AND OTHERS.
Man is an animal, and- the laws governing
the breeding of horses apply equally to him.
The strength and permanence of the strain
in the horse is illustrated by the descendants
of such a sire as Carbine, and in the case
of man by tribes living side by side with
entirely different characteristics. In Port
Moresby, Papua, the “boys” are largely
recruited from a tribe possessing Semitic
features who in vim and brains are to other
tribes as a racehorse to a carthorse. Whence
then came the blood which flows in the veins
of the Digger, that first among fighters?
There are three well-defined sources of this
strain: convict blood, emigrant blood, gold-
digger blood. And of these the foundation
is the convict blood. During the years 1788-
1868 no less than 160,000 convicts were
emptied into Australia. It is usual to refer
to them as the scum of the gaols. They
were nothing of the sort. Some undoubtedly
were the dregs of mankind, but there wa>
a large percentage worthy of being classed
with the best of nation-builders. From Ire-
land alone, from ’9B to .the days of Smith
O’Brien, there was a steady stream to these
shores of men in convict garb whose only
crime was an intense love of their home-land.
Again, the ship Eleanor arrived in Sydney
on June 26. 1831, with 136 prisoners, all
of whom, with three exceptions, were sent
here for terms ranging from seven years to
life for “machine-breaking”; and an Eng-
lish writer, referring to the condition ot tic
English agricultural laborer of those times,
said, relative to the machine-breaking
riots of 1830-2. that the men taking part in
them “have always been of good character.
The type may have been misguided; but
misguideclness is often only another name tot
stubbornness. ~,
We can take it, therefore, that while the
early blood of Australia may have been pol-
luted, there were strong Strains of the nne>


blood flowing into the young body with the
thinner foul stream. And in each succeed-
ing decade, as emigration increased, the
inflow of the finer blood became stronger
until there was hardly anything else. Our
third great tributary was the inflow or
thousands of men between 1851 and 18bU
as the result of the discovery _of gold. The
population of Australia in 1845 was L<A(KJu
and in 1850 405,000, an increase of 126,000.
In the next five years nearly 514,000 people
were added to the population, and at the end
of 1860 the total was 1,145,000. It would,
therefore, be safe to say that the discovery
of gold in 1851 induced some 500,000 men
and women to embark for the shores of
Australia.
These three great streams of convict, emi-
grant and gold-seeker blood determined the
character of the Digger. Qualities which
distinguish him are courage, initiative,
resource and a rare and often touching mate-
ship allied with an often mistaken and mis-
handled spirit of stubborn independence.
Every one of the sources of the blood of the
Australian has had its value in producing
this Digger character.
If one is inclined to doubt the courage
of even the thief, say, at the beginning of
the 19tli century, let him think for a moment
of the risks he faced in the exercise of his
profession. It was a savage age. There
was death for forgery, for burglary in the
night-time, for stealing from the pocket
above Is., for shoplifting above ss. ; while
for thefts of under Is., stealing fish from
a pond or river, stealing roots, trees or plants
or destroying them, and, most extraordinary
of all, stealing a. shroud out of a grave, the cul-
prit faced either whipping and imprisonment
or transportation to Botany Bay. We have,
however, something better than a theory to
demonstrate that the convict blood within
some 30 years of the foundation of the first
colony had produced great physical courage
as well as that mateship which the diggings
were afterwards to further develop. PETER.
Cunningham made a number of voyages to
X. S. Wales as surgeon of convict ships, and
in 1827, under the title of “Two Years in
N. S. Wales,” he placed on record his im-
pressions of the colony. The native-born
youths were known as “Currency lads,” and
the oversea-born as “Sterling lads,” and
referring to these he says: “Our Currency
lads are noted for spirit and courage as
well as for great clannishness: if a soldier
quarrels with one the whole hive sally to
his aid ; and often have they turned out at
Christmas time and on St. Patrick’s Day,
and beat the redcoats fairly into the barracks,
bludgeons, brickbats, three-year-olds fan
Irish term for a 31b. stone] and fists being
all legalised in these turn-ups.” Later he
has another observation which bears on the
strain. “Scientific mills,” he says, “often
take place also between lads of the fancy
for prize purses; and when it is sterling
against currency it is observed that sterling
is generally at a discount before the winding-
up of the set-to.” One hundred years later
the German found that he was' also at a
discount at the end of a set-to with the
descendants of the lads of whom Cunning-
ham wrote. The rebellious blood brought
from England and Ireland by the transported
insurgents carried with it the germs of cour-
age and endurance, for it is not your timid
man who rises in revolt.
If these men, who came unwillingly, are
to be classed under this heading, the men
and women who, as emigrants, boldly up-
rooted themselves from the villages of Britain
and faced the perils of the sea and of the
new land, can be regarded as possessing a
super-courage. The voyage was made in
sailing-ships, and they faced a passage of
from four to six months with a certainty
of a hard and rough life to follow. And
with the gold-rushes in the ’fifties came an
accession of adventurous blood —a band of
men and women to be classed with the elect
as nation-builders.
But the quality of courage does not belong
to the Australian alone. The war has demon-
strated that quite a number of nations, in-
cluding the German, have it. To produce
and differentiate the Digger there was
required the additional qualities of initiative
and resource, and it was the possession of
these, the inheritance as well of the pioneer-
ing conditions under which our forefathers
lived as of those forefathers themselves, that
raised our men to the nth degree as fighting
material.
C.H.B.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Congestion Marches On.
At Sydney City Council’s last weekly weep
over the slumminess of Australia’s oldest
city, it was declared that even Potts Point
and such-like haunts of the peerage are
slums nowadays, the essence of slumdom
being overcrowding and the density of popu-
lation in the new and multitudinous flats
being appalling. At the same time Miss
May Matthews, inspector for the Chil-
dren’s Department, was telling similar or
worse tales about places that the peerage
left long ago—Surry Hills, Waterloo, Chip-
pendale, Redfern, Glebe, Balmain, Woolloo-
mooloo, Aewtown, Camperdown—in fact,
about so many places that her denunciation
and the aldermanic. denunciation of Potts
Point, etc., left little undenounced. Corrobo-
ration. which was abundant, covered the
rest of the ground, and left Sydney with
hardly a leg to stand on. As a matter of
fact, the old city—the central part which is
ruled by the great boss municipal council—
is something of a curiosity even in this land
of congested capitals. Statistician Knißbs
recently published these figures:—
Area and Population of Cities Proper.
Acres. Population.
Melbourne (1917) .. 7,552 107,170
Sydney (1916) . . 3,327 106,000
Perth (1917) . . 5,913 45,615
Adelaide (1917) . 3,778 39,474
Brisbane (1917) , 3,520 39,368
Hohart (1916) ' 13,248 31,843
This means that, so far as the hub of the
city is concerned, Sydney lias the smallest
hub and only escaped having the biggest
and most slummy population by the accident
that its figures are made up to 1916 while
Melbourne’s are a year later, the matter
of crowding it is more than twice as bad as
Melbourne city, while by comparison the
others are nowhere. Aldermen and inspec-
tors and politicians and professional philan-
thropists and witnesses and corroborators
discuss the position from every point of
view except the very simple one that so big
a city for so small a State population is a
diseased monstrosity, and that half of the
people ought to be diverted to new capitals
like Tamworth or Wagga and new ports like
Eden, Port Stephens, Jervis Bay and simi-
lar new State centres so that the other half
might have room to breathe. On this .second-
ary question—the cramming of a ridiculous
proportion of the inhabitants of six States
into six cities —all the mainland States are
bad. all tend to grow worse, and. strange to
say, two that have lately been degenerating
very rapidly are Westralia and Queensland,
the biggest of all and the ones with
most empty space to fill. These are some
more of Knibbs’s figures, reckoning in each
case not merely the city proper, as in the
previous table, but the whole metropolitan
district: —
Number of People out of Every 10,000 State
Inhabitants Located in Capital.
1914. 1918. Increase.
Perth . . 3789 4243 454
Melbourne . . 4711 5057 346
Brisbane .. 2276 2609 333
Adelaide . . 5155 5289 134
Sydney .. 4042 4107 65
Hobart .. 1990 1987 Decrease.
These figures don’t suggest that any
metropolis—on the mainland, anyhow—has
begun to decentralise, despite the fact that
decentralisation, strictly by word of mouth,
is as much a fashion as “economy,” “set-
tling people on the land” and “developing
the great natural resources of the country.”
♦
Baby-killing Day.
When Judge Rolin fined the N. S. Wales
Bricklayers’ Union £lOO for organising a
regular Saturday strike he made the penalty
£4OO less than the law allowed, though he
took part of the balance out of defendant’s
hide in reproachful eloquence. Yet even
the reproaches were mild. The position is
that the building unions, in deciding
to diminish their output notwithstanding
the awful scarcity of dwellings, had
entered upon a policy of gratuitous
persecution of their fellow-workers which
amounts to baby-killing and other things.
No one imagines that infant mortality
isn’t increased by huddling two or
three families into a house that is too
small for one, and into condemned tenements
which have to be preserved because the
building trades won’t replace them. The
crime of the work-stoppers is solely against
the poor, for the rich still find homes some-
how. So the workless Saturday should be
labelled Baby-killing Day, that people may
know it. The official union reply to stric-
tures contained these words :
The question of the working class seeking to
obtain a reduction in the hours of labor is primarily
associated with the continuous conflict which the
workers [ i.e the stoppers] are forced to wage with
the employing class under the present inequitable
capitalistic system of production.
That sort of polysyllabic tripe is a con-
scious or unconscious copy from manifestoes
commonly circulated in Russia, a land of
dirt, where an immense proportion of the
people live under conditions that would make
the worst Sydney slum seem harmless. These
people and other low-grade aliens of their
sort are influential out of all proportion to
their numbers in Australia. In addition to
being accustomed to slum conditions they are
not concerned with the Australian baby. He
isn’t their affair ; in fact, to them no baby
matters much. The lands which the bulk
of our imported irreconcilables come from
have the highest infant mortality in the
world, and babies there are cheap. Apart
from that, if the building unions w*ant to
get away from “the present inequitable
capitalistic system of production” the free
Saturday, when they get it, will offer a
splendid chance to make a beginning. In-
stead of being devoted to patronising picture-
shows run at immense profit by capitalists,
or drinking liquor made or imported by capi-
talists, or in other expensive ways, the spare
day might be devoted to co-operative house-
building, which would tend to co-operative
property-owning. The brilliant success of
the venture, started with money saved by
less patronage of capitalists, would easily
lead to the men leaving the capitalistic
builder for good and all and making co-oper-
ative enterprise general. The only visible
reason for not doing something of the sort is
that they don't know how —that they can’t
work except when helped by the organising
ability of the capitalistic class. And if that
is so, then the campaign against the employer
should be abandoned.
The Habitations of Comedy.
“The dark places of the earth are full of the
habitations of cruelty.”—David.
“And of comedy.”— Solomon Malaproi'.
Darwin with its surroundings ranks among
the dark places of Australia by reason of its
absurd isolation. There are, of course, more
isolated spots, but nobody lives there, or
few people live there, to make comedy, and
these places aren’t capitals, or great ports,
or seats of misgovernment, and no Excel-
lencies or elaborate departments hang out
in them, so their infinite jest isn’t apparent.
Darwin, between 2000 and 3000 miles by
sea and weeks by time and precarious steamer
from the next capital, and with no Parlia-
mentary connection either with adjacent
States or with Australia, grew up during the
years of Federation as a big, untidy, unlet-
tered and uncared-for girl who has run wild.
If she had had to do her back hair periodi-
cally and go out to attend a Federal Par-
liament she might have improved. If the
railway had brought visitors from the South
three times a week or more so that she was
in constant association with her kind, she
would doubtless have been just a nice, ordi-
nary female. As it was, the developments
of the lonesome place were as extraordinary
as those of a marooned community starting
life afresh on an atoll. At Darwin it
appears that everybody read everybody’s
telegrams. Even the official cipher seemed
to be common property. The four
State hotels, despite their supposed mono-
poly, steadily lose money. Their condition
is so unkempt that a new stipendiary magis-
trate, sent up from the South, declared that
he would refuse a license to at least one of
them if he had the power. They are run
on dingy and exhausted principles by civil
servants who are supercilious as well as
tired. At one time a manager was alleged
to use the premises chiefly to have horrors
in. At the same time the little town was
blamed for 15 sly-grogshops; yet even in
that narrow space they couldn't be located,
though a policeman had his meals at one
of them. Stories are told of how men who
threatened to enlist were arrested at the
instance of people with Teuton names and
gaoled for debt under an old S. Australian law
which was dead but still working overtime
(possibly the news that there was a mora-
torium never reached the Territory) ; of a
legal official who was appealed to under the
Habeas Corpus Act and replied that he had
never heard of it; of a kid hardly past the
spanking stage who was appointed to an
important public billet; and of an official
who off-handedly ordered the execution of
a prisoner, but nobody took anv notice of
him. the prisoner least of all. Apparently
this official didn’t expect or intend to be
taken notice of; in fact it appears that no-
body takes much notice of anybody in the
dark places of the earth that are full of the
habitations of comedy. If the short-
line railway to which Australia is pledged
had been put through, and if a train from
Melbourne and Adelaide dropped in three
runes a week on the short road to Asia and
Europe, all this mirthfulness would have
long since vanished like a bubble. A trav-
elling pressman would have found that the
Territory’s cliques and officialdom and red
tape were a mine of “copy,” and he would
have written them up, and they would have
passed out amid shrieks of laughter. Per-
haps that alone wouldn’t have justified the rail-
way. But it would have been one gftod
reason for building it. Not that it needs
W .justifying at all now. The time for
that has passed. A bargain was made with
tv. Australia to build the line; and unless
the Commonwealth aims to stand alongside'
other treaty-breakers, the urgent work has
gAt to be done. Nor will Australia be safe
till it is done.
■ _
The Spirit of Secesh.
“Solomon Malaprop” again :
tVhy do the heathen (1 mean “Gokdo.v,” in B.
15/4/’2O) rage and the people burble a vain thing
merely because I drew a parallel between Ireland
and the Cotton and other Secession States of Uncle
Sam ?
Ireland is a conquered country which was brought
under England’s ready-made Constitution. The great
bulk of the States, in number and area, were also
conquered or bought, and brought under a ready-
made Constitution. Sometimes they were taken from
the old owners outright. Sometimes they were pur-
chased with or without pressure, as if people were
cattle to be swapped for dollars. Sometimes there
was a preliminary period of peaceful penetration by
very hostile pioneers, who rose suddenly, upset the
old order, established a minority Government by
Direct Action, and then asked to be taken into the
U.S. Of course the hands of the Government at
Washington were clean like Pilate's. Texas and
California were got that way. So was the Hawaiian
group. Sonora (Mexico) and Nicaragua once looked
like going through the same process. Of the 11
States which seceded in 1861, seven, being late
arrivals, had had no more voice in drafting the Con-
stitution under which they lived than Ire’and had.
Of course they helped to amend it later. So did
Ireland.
(< T *ie Declaration of Independence Set forth that
“these United Colonies are, and of right ought to
be, Free and Independent States.” (States —not one
State.) And in the 84 years till the first secession
South Carolina, the mother of secession, maintained
consistently that it was a free and independent
State, attached to the others by treaty or League
of Nations only. The Constitution, when it came
to be formed, left the point open. It simplv said:
“W r e, the people of the United States, in order to
form a mare perfect union” Nobody dared to say
a perfect” or “complete” or “permanent” or “per-
petual” or “indissoluble” union. No party except
the Federalists, who quickly fell to pieces, started
by regarding the Constitution as sacred and indissol-
uble. The Federalists were looked upon as re-action-
aries by people who made the Constitution and knew
what they meant by it.
Three early Presidents came up against the pro-
blem. Under Jackson, the grizzly-bear man, South
Carolina insisted that as a Free and Independent
State its local Legislature should decide whether new
Federal Acts applied to it. That wasn’t exactly
secession, for it didn’t call the old Constitution in
question. But Jackson declared that even if he had
no law to back him—he didn’t say he had a law—
he would march Federal troops into the State and
bang things about with a high, dictatorial hand.
And that wasn’t exactly a settlement of the rights or
wrongs of Secession. It wasn’t jurisprudence, but
it was Jackson.
Buchanan was President, though Lincoln had
been chosen to succeed him, when the first secession
took place (1860). His hesitating verdict as the
man on the spot was that there was no law against
secession.
Lincoln came in and declared that “in contempla-
tion of universal law and the Constitution” (which
was vague enough) the United States’s Ireland—the
one which had protested from the beginning against
the compulsory union theory—should be dragged
back. But Lincoln wasn’t a bigot. His own State,
Kentucky, seceded from both parties, declared itself
neutral, and bade both Federal and Confederate
troops to keep out. And Lincoln- observed the
neutrality and kept his troops out till Kentucky
changed its mind and invited them in.
The Mexican Constitution is practically a copy
of that of the U.S. But Mexico was only in its
infancy when the U.S. recognised the right of its
States to secede—and gathered them in when they
did so. South Carolina in 1860 was only following
this precedent with the difference that it was going
out not coming in. Any mouse in a trap could
see that circumstances alter cases.
The old Secession States, with a population
descended largely from Spanish, French and early
English settlers, were always of a different type
from the North, with its early Dutch and early
Swedes, its witch-burners and its Pilgrim Fathers
—the congregation of Brownists who sailed from
Leyden (Holland) 'in the Mayflower. (In Florida
and Louisiana the old Roman law isn’t extinct yet.)
And when the North was swarmed by Germans, Aus-
trians, Hungarians, Russians', “Polaeks” and “Bo-
liviks,” and a fourth of the population spoke little
or no English and some more spoke it badly, the
two races (if a hash is a race) became further apart.
The Southerners say so and they possibly know. A
referendum on Secession would at least, be an inter-
esting experiment.
In other times even incongruous peoples -had to
stick together as a defence against big outside rob-
bers.' It was the less of two evils. But now that
Wilson’s League of Nations has abolished big
robbers, why perpetuate even the less evil?
A Matter of Deportation.
"Macquarie Street” discusses the Max
llerz fiasco:—
It appears that Max Hkkz has been released from
the Liverpool (N.S.W.) internment camp, notwith-
standing the fact that the Aliens, Board had recom-
mended his immediate deportation, so that one may
not be far wrong in attributing the latest develop-
ment to backstairs influence in Federal politics.
The medical profession is well able to look after
itself, so it is in their capacity of loyal Australians
who have devoted much precious time to war work
that members of the profession have held meetings
and endeavored to show the powers that be where
their plain duty lies. There is not the slightest
jealousy about Merz’s so-called gifts in the ortho-
paedic line; his claim to pre-eminence there is all
moonshine, as every doctor who has been to the
war knows. The returned men are far more likely
to be proficient than a practitioner who haft passed
some years in an internment camp. Any knowledge
he may have possessed on this subject would be
bound to be out of date owing to his enforced
inactivity', as his fellow tluns at the camp could
not have suffered much from bodily deformities,
whatever mental deformities they' had.
The news of the release of Herz came as a h.e.
shell on the medical profession which had discussed
the pros and cons of the case just before last Christ-
mas, and was certain that the eommonsense of the
Government would provide for his deportation as
quickly as possible. Finding that they had been
misled, 30 of the returned medical men on the
receipt of the news of the release immediately requisi-
tioned the Council to convene a special meeting
of the 8.M.A., which took place last week. It is
curious that the B.M.A. has been unable hitherto
to obtain an interview with Mr. Hughes on this
important national question. Perhaps, after this, it
may have more success.
The returned men have certainly the chief grievance,
and you can imagine their feelings when they find
that a man who has grossly betrayed us, and abused
our hospitality, has been placed on an equal footing
with, the elite of the profession who served our
cause at the Front, and can demand high fees with
the best of them, though in his own country and
in his own city of Munich one of us would enjoy
none of these advantages. Imagine for a moment the
position of an Australian doctor in any German city!
It would be of interest to obtain some expression
as to how Herz behaved in Maoriland; how long
he practised there; in what towns and districts, and
what was the reason of his coming to Australia.
No record is ever kept as to how many doctors in
a given year leave the various States, or why they
migrate. Any practitioner leaving one State and
settling in another should be compelled to give the
reason, and such information should be sent on to
the proper authorities; and it should be readily
available to inquirers. At the present time no ques-
tions are asked ; the newcomer merely presents his
diploma and is registered without further ado. Such
a method should be scrapped, and more care should
be taken by the Medical Board to ascertain who are
to be our professional neighbors.
Confidences.
In the fourth year of the war The Bul-
letin had to increase its price; but it under-
took to go back to the old sixpence as soon
as possible after the killing was over. It
honored that undertaking, although at the
time printing paper, which is the principal
item in a publisher’s costs, was still three
times the pre-war price. It was then ex-
pected that prices would steadily fall. In-
stead, they have rapidly risen. The last
purchase of paper made by The Bulletin
is at the rate of over £96 per ton landed in
store. This is seven times the pre-war price.
The conductors of the paper settled their
policy long ago. They decided that there
should be no increase in price so long as it
was at all possible to do without it; and
only the large increase in advertising rev-
enues made possible by a rapid increase in cir-
culation has enabled The Bulletin to thus
long continue to sell itself at the old price,
when almost all other commodities, includ-
ing daily papers, have advanced twofold,
threefold and more. The position has, how-
ever, been reached when it cannot be done
any longer; and with regret it is to-day
announced that from (and including) May
6 the price will be uinepence. Because The
Bulletin hates to ask for another three-
pence from those of its readers to whom
threepence means something it gives the
same undertaking that it gave before—the
price shall come back to sixpence as soon as
ever circumstances will allow of it.
-
This week in N. S. Wales is dedicated to
the prevention of cruelty to animals. In a
general way most decent people are all in
favor of this, but not one in a hundred knows
how to begin—not even the S.P.C.A. officials
themselves, apparently. There were a couple
of convictions the other day of men who had
been guilty of semi-lunatic barbarities to a
cat and a horse respectively. One was fined
£2 and the other £B. In England both would
have gone to gaol: in the south of Italy,
on the other hand, neither would have been
punished at all. If Australia can’t rise to
the level of the Cold Country it might at
least try to strike a mean between London
and Naples. As a matter of fact, the Syd-
ney metropolitan magistrates made a move
in that direction several months ago. They
met in conference and recommended’ that the
maximum penalty of £5 under the P.C.A.
Act be increased to £lO. and that persons
“permitting” cruelty should also be liable.
This might be read to include those who
looked on at an act of cruelty in a street
or other public place; and an effect of it
would be to give a needed status to citizens
who at present are chary about interfering.
But there is a big section which doesn’t even
understand what cruelty is. Sydney, with
its steep gradients, is one of the most trying
cities for horses in the world. Improved
roadways do not help; in fact, where the
roads are improved with an eye to motor
traffic, matters are made worse. In London
—which is the "model city from the P.C.A.
point of view—a lame horse is driven or
ridden at the owner’s continual peril. The
latter will be lucky if he goes a block with-
out being pulled up, and the animal doesn’t
have to be dead lame by any means to pro-
voke the attention of the law. There is a
deeper purpose at the back of all this than
the sentimentalism -which some people bring
to their relations with animals and other
helpless or dependent creatures. It is a plati-
tude of human psychology that the spectacle
of brutality provokes brutality. In some
countries butchers are debarred, for that


c C6e “
m
Centre
r Cf,e
“Jtfusiraha"
Wmter Garden
** <*
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
reason, from sitting as jurors in capital
eases. The less attention q community gives
to its animals, the more at leaves them at
the mercy of Sadists or -plain brutes, the
heavier it will pay in crimes of violence.
So the State, no less than its animals, has
an interest in the success of the S.IbC.A.
Australia seems quite agreed that the
Federal Constitution ought to be revised, in
the light of the experiences of 20 years. The
question at present at issue is what body
ought to do the j'ob. The Constitution was
framed by a Convention in which the States
were equally represented (equally as far as
numbers were concerned, at any rate) by
men chosen by each State voting as one
electorate. It is variously claimed now (1)
that the process should be repeated; (2) that,
for the' purpose of electing the Convention.
State boundaries should be disregarded, and
new divisions made; (3) that the State Par-
liaments should be represented; (4) that
Federal members should be barred, but that
the Federal Parliament should have direct
representation; and (5) that a hundred other
frills should be added. If there are going
to be any frills at all —that is to say, if the
States are not to have equal representation
—then the Convention had better be consti-
stituted as a joint sitting of the two Houses
would be; and that is the Constitution’s
supreme measure for settling disputes apart
from referring them direct to theipeople. A
convention of .">4 members, 18 representing
the States and 3(5 the States divided into
electorates —one for each present two —
might be as handy a body as any. After all.
how the crowd that is to draft the new Con-
stitution shall be got together isn’t of
supreme importance. It can’t impose any-
thing on Australia. Working with an eye
to the fact that the scheme must win the
approval of a majority of the existing States
and a majority of the electors, probably
a dozen almost unknown Parliamentary
draughtsmen could do the job as well as any
body. The Bulletin doesn’t suggest that:
but it does suggest that it isn’t worth, while
hanging the urgent business up to'argue
interminably about the body that Nyill do
the job.
“Ace ,E” delivers a pleading:—
“A Lawyer” iB, l/4/’2O) apparently thinks that
the less law a Judge knows the better. Shall
Juggins, then, decide our constitutional rights, and
Muggins have the power of inflicting terms of im-
prisonment at will ? In short, the substitution of
business men for trained lawyers would lead to a
glorified system of Justices of the Peace, and, per-
sonally, 1 can imagine no greater state of chaos,
injustice and tyranny than would arise under such
a system. It is sufficient that we have J’s.P. in our
midst —let us not add to them. We must have some
fixed standards. If A and B have a dispute it may
seem fitting to Jones, who adjudicates, to decide one
way, and in exactly the same set of circumstances
Smith may decide in a dispute between C and D
exactly the opposite way. Where are we then to
look for security of contractual obligations or the
conserving of our rights in property of all descrip-
tions, and what possible hope would there be that
our business men not our lawyers, could carry on
their businesses with any definite assurance that
they were to be paid for their work or their goods?
One of the supreme virtues of our present system is
that Judges are Judges in the strict sense. They
judge on facts, and in the main are totally free from
bias or prejudice. This is properly so. Take our
Judges away and put business men in their stead;
then are the men who, in time of war, exploited
their fellow men to the detriment of their country’s
advantage going to deal in any more honest fashion
with the rights of conflicting parties? Yet they
would be eligible to adjudicate because they are
business men. And, anyhow, lawyers, in the course
of their business, get very much to the heart of
things, and any lawyer of any considerable practice
is not prepared to admit that the average business
man whom he meets in the course of his business
has a better knowledge of human nature than he him-
self owns. Nor is he prepared to admit that the
business man has better morals.
The Bolshevik supreme Parliament, which
is allowed to say ditto to the Lenin-Trotsky-
Tchitciierin triumvirate, has enacted com-
pulsory labor- —hitherto a mere matter of
Government decree. The hours are long and
the labor is to be, as far as possible, of the
piecework variety, to stimulate produc-
tion. Russia has got rid of the bur-
den of its agricultural landlords (a class
almost unknown in Australia) and bf its
Imperial family with all its. offshoots (a
class quite unknown here). Also it has
seized on all the profits of the private
capitalist, and it saves the interest on tlie
public debt by the simple process of not pay-
ing. But the great Stop-Work left the country
poorer than when it carried all these burdens:
iD fact, it was left dog-poor and starving.
vSo Trotsky of Moscow has been converted
(if he required conversion, and wasn’t merely
using the work-stopping class as a means to
an end), just as Garden of Sydney and
Blackburn of Melbourne might be converted
by a similar spectacle of ruin and desolation.
Still it is questionable if it is worth while
to make Australia, which has no grievances
that its people can’t remedy by legislation,
into a desert and put back the clock of civil-
isation by a century merely to convert
Garden or Blackburn or even Considine,
who might be disposed of by exile to an
atoll. Sergeant-Major Gray, of Richmond
(Vic.), who left Russia a month ago after
long service there, says that two tilings
struck him in Petrograd: tea was £GO a
lb. (paper money, of course, whereof
£2,500,000,000 was in circulation two years
ago, and the amount is supposed to
have doubled since then), and “practically
no factories were working.” The work-
stoppers of Russia had gone five days a week-
better than the bricklayers of Sydney and
Melbourne and 30 hours a week better than
the 30-hour work-stoppers of Broken Hill.
In fact, they had gone the whole hog in
securing “leisure for social intercourse and
mental improvement.” But if books sell at
the same price as tea. mental improvement
must be under a handicap.
♦
“Coola” on a matter of salvage:—
While Watt is on the way to argue about war
accounts between Britain and the Commonwealth I
am curious to know if our Government has received
credit from John BcMi for the salvage work done
in France by the A.I.F. The value of material salved
by a division was supposed to be placed to the
credit of that division. Up to date I have not seen
INOPPORTUNE.
LABOR EXTREMIST : “Say, John, what about ”
JOHN STOREY (in a hoarse whisper) : “My dear fellow, do a hunk for a hit! Can’t
you see this is a psychological moment ?”
that any of our war debts have been squared by the
money due for this work. It must run into several
millions. Diggers will remember the notices on the
backs of the motor-lorries: “What have you salved
to-day?” “Bring something back from the line,”
etc. The value of the material we salved in the
Somme area during the winter of 1916-17 was cer-
tainly enormous. Had this material not been rescued
at the time it would have disappeared in the mud
and been lost forever. The work was going on
whenever the fighting eased up a bit. Our First
Divvy scored a good win With the Strazeele Dump
when we were rushed back from the Somme in
early 1918. Most of the Tommies were disappearing
over the horizon when we arrived, and Fritz had just
reached the edge of this huge heap of stores. Our
engineers and pioneers got busy and commenced to
remove the stuff from under Fritz’s nose. A winch
was rigged up some distance back along the rail-
way line, then trucks were quietly pushed along at
night and loaded with anything that was handy.
A long steel rope and the winch did the rest. The
heads came to the conclusion that it was easier to
move the enemy than to move the dump in this
manner, so the enemy was induced to retire a little.
This gave a bit of elbow-room and allowed our
lorries and waggons to get in for their cut. We
were in that part of the line for over four months,
and 'when we left for the Somme early in August
a lot of that dump still remained. The value of
our haul was estimated at four millions, and accord-
ing to the Army Salvage returns this placed the
First Aussie Division ahead of any other in the
British Army. Some of the dumps recaptured from
the Huns during our advance along the Somme
from Villers-Bretonneux were also worth quite a
tidy amount. The one at Rozieres was estimated to
contain eight million pounds’ worth of material. I
hope Watt knows of this. It might help him con-
siderably in his argument.
“Lex”: The Federal C.J. took an un-
usual course in the Moses v. Moses divorce
appeal last week. The question was: Had
there been habitual cruelty on the part of
the husband? Knox, C.J., wanted to know
just what had impelled Justice Gordon, of
N. S. Wales, to decide to the contrary. And
so, “with the consent of counsel,” he pri-
vately interviewed his learned friend of other
days, and quickly came to the conclusion
that the latter had been right in his de-
cision. An appeal is by way of a report
from the lower to the higher court, and such
conferences as that which occurred in Syd-
ney last week have always been fairly com-
mon in England—mostly in the matter of
appeals from the County Courts. Here they
are not unknown in District Court matters.
But for a High Court C.J. and n Supreme
Court Judge to meet in such a way is
another thing; and it is as eminently reason-
able as that a couple of Macquarie-street
consultants should get the observations that
the general practitioner has made in the
course of a bothersome case.
When ex-Premier Holman introduced Pre-
mier Storey to his staff he threw the usual
bouquet about Storey having won by a “clean
fight,” and doubtless Storey would have
thrown a similar posy hud the positions
been reversed. The Bulletin’s view is that
it was a dirty, muddy scrimmage, and a dis-
grace to both parties, and to all parties, and
to the system most of all. Two political pro-
fligates tried which could dissipate the State’s
resources fastest and load posterity with
most burdens merely to buy place and power
from the electors. If each was so invariably
wrong as the other said both should be in
a mental hospital, and if each was so
crooked in his misrepresentations as the
other alleged neither belongs to decent
society. They didn’t drag each other’s female
relations into the discussion, but that was
the only clean feature in the business. The
need is very apparent for that Act for the
Abolition of Lying at Elections —an Act
under which any elector can bring a candi-
date, or one who speaks or writes on his
behalf, before a Court of Instantaneous
Jurisdiction, and make him prove his state-
ment, whatever it is, under pains and penal-
ties.
According to a HERALD-SUN cable
U3/4/’2O) :
Colonel Claude Loxvther (Coalition-Unionist) asked
whether the German army, including the Reichs-
wehr, militia and police, numbered . 2,000,000.
Mr. Bonar Law did not think there was the shadow
of foundation for such a suggestion.
The German official press thinks differently.
Here are the latest figures supplied by
Berlin :
Regular Army .. 400,000
Land forces of Navy.. 12,000
Temporary Volunteers.. 1,500,000
Civic Guards . . .. 300,000
Armed Constabulary.. 40,000
Total .. 2,252,000
Under the Treaty the whole of them are
illegally in existence, and not least the
Armed Constabulary, who, while nominally
police, are in fact ex-soldiers with special
qualifications as machine-gunners.
“Ex-Dig.”: Amongst the undesired things
that have come back with the A.I.F. is the
Nile worm, a brother of the hookworm. Be-
cause they are afflicted, men who have de-
sired to take up land on soldiers’ settlements
have been turned down and have to remain
in the city. The reason given is that in
places where sanitation is primitive, the
Nile worm may spread; there is little dan-
ger in the city, where there is a proper sani-
tary system. Yet there is nothing at all to
prevent afflicted men from living in suburbs
to which deep-drainage has not been ex-
tended, and where the likelihood of a spread
of the disease is greater, probably, than in a
scattered country settlement.
Senator Gardiner urges the payment of
the soldiers’ gratuity in notes. The note-
issue, he says, “could be inflated with per-
fect safety to £90,000,000.” Yet at the end
of 1919 £23,000,000 of the £57,000,000
nominally in circulation consisted of £lOOO
notes held by the banks wkich cashed them
on compulsion and are not allowed to use
them because the country can’t absorb them.
And the £34,000,000 which composed the
real issue have rather a tired look. In fact,
they are worth about 13s. Gd. or 14s. in
the £l, and already, as a £1 note will buy
only about three ounces of silver instead of
the old eight ounces, a debased shilling
begins to be called for. These things stare
Gardiner in the face. But Gardiner isn’t
sensitive.
At the same time that the Victorian Pre-
mier was making remarks about the claims
of school-teachers for improved conditions
in N. S. Wales Judge Bolin was trying to be
severe with the Bricklayers’ Union. In that
case His Honor threatened to cancel the
Union’s award, and the Union’s advocate
mentioned that the organisation “would sub-
mit to any order the Court may make.” It
was a polite way of telling His Honor that
His Honor could do what His Honor dashed
well liked ; for, while bricklayers are being
chased with offers of 21s. per day and more
if they will only work, their oi-ganisation is
not likely to worry about an award that
specifies a mere 2s. 3d. per hour. The
Victorian school-teachers, however, are
weakly organised, and Lawson announces
that he “is not going to be moved by in-
solent and foolish remarks of some stupid
school-teachers” to increase their salaries.
There is a moral somewhere; and it is not
that it is a good thing to make a school-
teacher of your son.
In commenting on recent happenings at
Sydney Town Hall the secretary of the Labor
Council said that the whole idea of the
“Red Flag” song is to “teach the working
classes of the world to be united.” This
unitedness is supposed to be a self-evident
blessing, but what are the united working
classes to do with each other? —
Are they to iuter-marry, we and the coolie and the
ryot and the fellah and the mujik and the rest?
Are the other united fellows to come here and
unite, or do we fro there and unite? In other
words, do they (the coolie, etc.) come here to
help us fight the white capitalist, and, if so, when
do they go away again?
Are they to help govern each other and dictate
each other’s policy ? If so, we will be governed a
good deal, for there are few of us and plenty of
the other fellows.
Are they to stand by each other in their just
quarrels? If so, some strange characters may over-
rule our handful when it comes to deciding whether
our quarrel or the other fellow’s is just.
Above all, are they to “put down war”? War
can always be put down by arbitration, the strongest
crowd deciding what is just and the weakest crowd
caving in without a fight. Even industrial war at
Broken Hill could be cured by caving in.
In short, details are asked for, though not
insisted on.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
wHo would earn over
£5,000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINT
Citizens of the Northern Territory and
Papua begin to wonder how big a humbug
Australia is. It talks a lot about the rights
of countries like Ireland to govern themselves,
.vet itself maintains two territories, Papua
and the Northern Territory, which it gov-
erns in the most autocratic manner, allow-
ing them no say at all in the making of the
laws under which they live, or in the choice
of the administrators of those laws. It is a
disgrace to an allegedly democratic Common-
wealth.
Sydney Labor Council, controlled by Labor
bosses, few of whom do any hard toil them-
selves, has turned dowu the profit-sharing
offer of Teesdale Smith. Smith, who is do-
ing various big works for the N. S. Wales
Government, offered half the profits to the
workmen and a quarter to the managing
staff; and the council urged the unions inter-
ested not to have anything to do with the
scheme. The men who give such advice
don’t want industrial peace; they would
hate to see workmen contented. Their own
jobs and the jobs of their caste depend upon
keeping industry in a state of turmoil and
workmen in a state of rebellion. But of
course they can’t tell this truth, so they dope
the workmen into refusing good money with
PURELY A PERSONAL BUSINESS.
“Gone in for politics, hare you? Want to
sec what good you can do the country?”
“Bless you, no! Want to see what good the
country can do me.”
yarns about the worker being entitled not to
three-fourths but to the whole of the product
of his labor. Certainly he is entitled to all
he produces ; but for the labor boss to say
that the industrial boss isn’t entitled to
anything for his knowledge, not to mention
the use of his capital, is such a shallow fake
that even the easily-duped working man
should see through it. Ask him whether he
refuses interest for union funds lodged with
the savings bank.
Professor-of-Economics Irvine, of Sydney
Uni., contributed his mite to the house-
famine discussion with the statement that
the thing was “to reduce the percentage of
wages paid in rent, which, I suppose, is
higher in this country than anywhere else in
the world.” A witness, especially a Pro-
fessor of Economics, shouldn't “suppose.” In
Australia the landlord pays the taxes (and
generally the water-rate is included) out of
what is called the rent. The British tenant
pays rent and taxes separately. The rent
with him is simply rent, but the men who
call for the water and sewerage rate, street-
lighting rate, school rate (education is
mostly a local affair), police rate (the
bobby is local), poor rate (charity is local),
street and road rate (that, is strictly local),
town-improvement rate, etc., visit him per-
sonally, even if he occupies two rooms in a
tenement house. It isn’t considered in the
least extraordinary when an English rent of
10s. a week is accompanied by a separate
bill for rates equal to ss. per week, and
there are cases where 10s. a week rent is
garnished with 10s. or 11s. for rates.
The defeated Senators at the last Fed-
eral elections are having a great holiday.
Their jobs do not become vacant by efßuxion
of time till June next, and meanwhile they
have relinquished all responsibilities to their
constituents. The successful candidates are
getting all the correspondence and all the
worry without the gold pass and the £6OO a
year.
From the N. S. Wales Gallery:—
Holman was the victim of his distorted views re-
specting tiie claims of friendship right to the last.
As an old campaigner he saw at an early stage
that the Nationalist cake w r as dough. But Fuller,
Fitzpatrick and one or two other diehards wanted
to hang on, on the chance of a miracle happening—
and so did others who had backed Nationalism
heavily for titles. There was no miracle, and Hol-
man went out in the end amidst the jeers of the
disaffected, instead of departing, as he might haw
done, after the dignified manner of one defeated in
a stiff fight against heavy odds.
Melbourne Argus, which makes a pious
duty of every morning pricking the new
tariff with her hat-pin, thought it was quite
safe the other day to attack the duty on
surgical instruments. “For many years to
come,” the dear old helpless lady with the
wool-and-wheat brain said, “there is not the
slightest chance of the instruments being
manufactured in Australia.” She must have
been a flustered old soul when next day she
had to print a letter from the Felton-Grim-
wade firm saying that the surgical equipment
of all but the earliest divisions of the A.I.F.
was made in Australia.
Burchell, M.H.R., has been hastily ex-
plaining that the new khaki squad in the
Reps, is not a “party,” hut a sort of com-
mittee that meets occasionally to give
Hughes the benefit of its intellect on soldier
problems. But party or not, the returned
warriors will certainly refuse to be ignored.
In fact, the threatening jaw-line of Marr
and Cameron suggests that either those Dig-
gers’ wisdom will be embodied in khaki
legislation or Hughes will be decorated with
the Order of the Flying Brick or something
equally significant of waning admiration.
The first thing Barwell, the new S.A. Pre-
mier, had to do was to reconstruct the
Cabinet. Hague and Pascoe were waiting
sit the moment to be sworn in. Barwell re-
tains the Attorney-Generalship,
and Ritchie takes the late Pre-
mier Peake’s job of Treasurer.
The vacant seat has been filled
by appointing G. R. Laffer,
orchardist and authority on
agriculture. But the new Min-
istry is in for a troubled ride.
The seven Nationalists who
have just dissolved partnership
with the Liberals hold the
balance of power. The position
will be, at best, 21 Liberals,
17 Labor, and one Farmer, be-
sides the seven above men-
tioned. So, unless some friendly
arrangement is come to, any-
thing may happen when Par-
liament meets in July—any-
thing,. of course, meaning a
general election. But Heaven
knows why there should be a
general election every time any
one of half a dozen or more
groups in a Parliament can’t command a
majority. S. Aus. has about 27 recognised
religious sects, and why it should try to
pretend that it hasn’t got as many political
sects passes understanding.
F. L. W. Ashby, secretary to the Vic.
Chamber of Manufactures, has supplied the
Argus with a piece of information which
gives a nasty knock to Gran’ma’s contention
that protective duties impose an extra bur-
den on the farmer. “At the present time,”
Ashby states, “notwithstanding the duties,
implements and machinery, both of Austra-
lian manufacture and imported, are sold at
lower prices in Australia than in Maoriland,
where all agricultural machinery is
admitted free of duty.” And Massy Greene
asserts that what is true of Maoriland is
true also of freetrade Argentina.
Reports from America indicate that a
Yankee syndicate has worked the confidence
trick on Hughes in regard to a number of
the Australian wooden steamers built in the
U.S.A. and officially reported to have been
sold in Uncle Sam’s country last year. Four
of the steamers were, it is said, taken over
by a syndicate which ran them for three or
four trips, and now declines to complete the
deal. Under the control of the Common-
wealth line, but manned by outsiders, the
Australian crews having been paid off and
returned to Australia when the ships were
delivered over to the confidence syndicate,
the hulks have been despatched to different
ports in Europe, ostensibly to be hawked
around those markets. Why they were not
given a trial on the one coast in the world
which is short of shipping, our own, is one
of those mysteries which calls for Hughes’s
earnest attention.
“Greentape”: If Fihelly, of Bananaland,
wants another precedent for a layman tak-
ing the Attorney-Generalship he can turn to
Victoria. William John Evans, M.L.C.,
formerly a railway loeo.-driver, was Attorney-
General and Solicitor-General in the Elms-
lie Government from Dec. 9 till Dec. 22,
1913. Evans died not long afterwards, but
that need not discourage Fihelly.
THE CONVERT.
COHEN: “Vot, another loan? Don't you
think it time you paid me something
lack?”
THE LOAFER PARTY: “But this one is for a
religious cause—no Saturday work!"
Castlemaine, one of the most prosperous
little towns still alive in Vic., is beginning
to wonder whether centralisation is going to
get it too. For a long time the mainstay
of the town has been Thompson’s foundry
and engineering works. Now it is reported
that Thompson’s have bought Bray Bros’,
engineering works at Williamstown, and
there is a sort of feeling that eventually
Thompson’s will be pulled in towards Mel-
bourne as McKay’s, the harvester people,
have been drawn in from Ballarat. Though
Castlemaine disputes with Warrnambool the
position of fourth town in Victoria outside
Melbourne, it has not quite 8000 inhabitants,
so it can’t afford to lose many.
Pease, the Queensland Government nomi-
nee, has just squeezed in for Bill Lennon’s
seat, Herbert, defeating orator Gelston by
a long neck. The Government party’s organ-
isers rushed. several hundred navvies into
the electorate in time to qualify for enrol-
ment. A few results: —
Gelston. Pease.
Ingham railway camp .. . . 11 139
Main camp, Innisfail .. .. 7 36
McKinnon’s store . . .. 3 89
McDougall’s camp . . .. 1 37
Mena Creek .. . . .. 3 42
However, The Bulletin isn’t complaining.
Apparently the only hope of killing the great
loan policy is to give it euough rope to
hang itself with.
The latest vital statistics for N. S. Wales
show that there are 19,313 more males than
females in the State —100 -males for every 98
females. In most countries the women out-
number the men. That is to say, there is a
permanent feminine population with no
hope of matrimony. But in every community
there is a large proportion of unhappily mar-
ried couples who under a system of easy
divorce laws would separate. In the re-
shuffle the left-over females might get their
chance to help the country by adding to the
population. That is one of the strongest argu-
ments in the armories of those who are now
calling for a relaxation of the divorce laws
in countries- such as the United Kingdom,
where the women immensely outnumber the
men. But it is not likely to be of service
in Australia for many years to come. The
vast majority of our immigrants are males;
and the excess of male over female, deaths in
early childhood, which is the chief reason
for the numerical preponderance of the ladies
in the older countries, is far less marked
here.
“Nothing new under the sun.” In 1860
Richard Heales, Victorian democrat, came
into power on the defeat of the Nicholson
Ministry. The party met in caucus, the
first assembly of the kind in Australia ; lists
of the members were passed round, and each
member “pricked” his favorite for office.
There were eight portfolios, and the Min-
isters chosen thus were sworn in.
Melbourne Labor Call proposes that the
labor monopoly of the organised building
workers should be “married” to the public
credit, in order to produce more homes —a
return, in short, to the O’Sullivan’s buttv-
gang system in N. S. Wales Public Works.
■Anything is worth try-
ing in order to end
the present go-slow
and knock-off. Thou-
sands of employers are
employers tc-day be-
cause they wanted to
make profits for them-
selves and not for a
boss. There is nothing-
wrong about that—
on the whole, it is a
good thing. What Is
a bad thing is that
men should not want
to rn ke profits for
anybody—should de-
liberately do as little
as possible in as long
as possible. S o m e-
thing of the sort the
Call proposes is being
done in England,
where municipal coun-
cils are financing the
building of thousands
of dwellings. The ex-
periment may not suc-
ceed. But it is worth
trying. And there is
no need for the unions
to wait even for muni-
cipal or other credit.
If they can give an as-
surance that, the profit-
taker being cut out,
they are going to work
hard and make money
for themselves, they
can themselves get
credit to build a quarter of a million houses.
Decorators skilled in this class of camou-
flage are working on the cement pillars of
the Melbourne Town Hall foyer to make
them look like marble—at least while Prince
Teddy is glancing at them. Well, yes. Let
us have the pillars in keeping with the
superstructure.
When a meeting in Sydney Town Hall the
other day declared that the Labor it repre-
sented would take no part in welcoming “a
certain young man,” the old newspaper ladies
of Sydney snorted about “impudence.”
And when Gardiner, Labor’s official repre-
sentative in the Senate, moved that a mes-
sage be sent to the King and Queen assuring
them that their son “would receive a loyal
welcome,” the D.T. madam gave her bonnet
a push and said she didn’t know whether
that wasn’t “impudence,” too. It’s hard to
please some people.
From the Federal Gallery :
Hughes’s proposal to tap the Treasury for travel-
ling exes, had the effect of shattering Labor-member
Gabb’s belief that politicians are simple patriots
with a disposition to martyr themselves. The ruin
was announced in a torrential speech that gave the
Hansard men Pitman’s cramp and caused great
amusement among members opposite. But Gabb is
a political novice, and probably when he is a bit
more sophisticated he will see life from a different
angle and wink at a lot of things that are strictly
illicit but have become sanctified by Parliamentary
usage. For instance, he may smile at some quaint
habits in the matter of O.S. stamps, and will pos-
sibly learn how to charge up his wife’s travelling
exes, as a reproductive work.
“General Birdwood appealed to returned
men to go on the land.” They all appeal
that way, especially people who aren’t on
the land.
Frank Henty’s cry for Protection :
By all means let us have a 50 p.c. impost oii
imported fiction! During the war, owing to the
shortage of foreign novels, most lending-libraries put
up their rates, and it is quite unlikely that these
will be lowered again, whether fiction be admitted
free or ,ot. As the library-subscriber provides most
of tin demand for imported fiction, the continued free
admission of novels simply means putting a bonus
into the hands of the library-owners, besides helping
them to discourage the local product. There is no
less to be said in favor of a tariff for the benefit
of the Australian writer and printer than in support
of an impost to help the local manufacturing con-
fectioner and brewer.
THE HALE-HOGGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The committee expressed the view that Messrs.
Coats might very well have sold their cotton in
the home market at 6d. per reel, but went on to
P° lEt out ‘in fairness to Messrs. Coats’ that the
nrm had not taken full advantage of their mono-
polistic position.’ ”
They did not take all that they might have taken ;
Their patriot ardor held their greed in check,
Mhile all the credits of the lands were shaken
And peas were sold at Heaven-knows-what per peck.
\ou could not call it fair to put their pot on
For stealing in that simple, gentle way;
they charged you less for a full reel of cotton
Than British soldiers earned each fighting day!
Quite modest profits! Look at the great bill yon
Hard fighting forces left the land to pay !
To ease the strain they only charged three million
When they had everything their own sweet way.
Xo honest man could call that profiteering.
Why, all they got was merely cent, per cent,
their conduct, all considered, is most cheering—
Small profits—quick returns —they are content.
s.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


TOO FEW COOKS SPOIL THE BROTH.
"A new and improved tariff is a good thing. But it isn't everything. A tariff can only supply employment, and a race of gabolers has arisen to teach that it is a sin to do the work when it is supplied, no matter how good the pay may be."
THE WAITRESS: "Sorry, sir, beef is off, and mutton is off, and there are no sweets. Y’see, sir, the cooks are on strike, and the pantryman’s only work n[?] 40 hours a week, and nobody else Is doing anything to speak of.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated). Spelter,
ami the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Pom aer.
Purchasers on a Specialty Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HUAI) OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
II I>. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS. EC. .
( .I SMI TH . Londw Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
r. N. KIRK (Agree*').
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
c. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N S W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
£15,000,000.
THE TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE CONTROL OF
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
EXCEED THIS FIGURE,
Thus Showing the Confidence in which it is held by the Public.
THIS COMPANY OFFERS MANY
ADVANTAGES OVER THE
PRIVATE TRUSTEE.'
WRITE FOR BOOKLET SETTING
OUT PARTICULARS OF ITS
METHODS AND CHARGES.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The A USTUALIAN MTj'TUA) PROVIDENT
Society:—
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ .£ £ £ £
1906.. 2,932,755 1,645,681 259,769 29.818 I 746
Aid" to Industrial Department 6,741 f ’
1907.. 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 42,475 1,032,670
1908.. 3,154,488 1,781,750 285,804 40,714 1,076,220
1909.. 3,337,426 1,875,516 296,585 30,947 1,134,378
1910.. 3,492.096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1911.. 3,676,105 1,986,708 322,047 22,823 1,344,527
1912.. 3,855,890 2,075,701 338,306 31,029 1,410,854
1913.. 3,990,266 2,179,021 345,680 27,342 1,438,223
1914.. 4,190,018 2,312,728 367,601 33,568 1,476,121
1915.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374.595
1916.. 4,632,473 2,814,896 408,350 42,563 1,366,664
1917.. 4,863,710 3,436,591 434,986 37,566 954,567
1918.. 5,078,819 3,376,417 433,514 43,096 1,225,792
1919.. 5,191,387 3,097,941 477,688 60,471 1,555,287
For the hrst time the A.M.P.’s surplus for
any year has exceeded the li-million mark.
Good progress was being made towards this
prior to Wilhelm’s adventure, but war claims
interfered, and now it has taken a million
more income than in 1914 to better that
year’s surplus. Going back five and 10 years
provides some interesting comparisons:—
1909-14. 1914-19.
Increase of
Premiu m
income ..£502,427 £548,947
Interest, etc. 360,165 452,422
Total .. £852,592 £1,001,369
Claims ..£437,212 £785,213
Expenses.. 71,016 110,087
De preda-
tion,etc.. 2,621 26,903
£510,849 £922,203
Increase of surplus.. £341,743 £79,166
Fast year was by no means a normal one,
though; for £91,421 of claims were war
settlements, and ’flu accounted for over a
quarter of a million of losses, _the claims
ratio for the year having been J 39.7 p.c. of
total income, compared with 55.2 p.c. for
1914. That little 4£ p.c. difference means
£225,000 on a five-million income; so when
losses do become normal again there is
going to be a big spring in the A.M.P.’s sur-
plus. With luck the Society should soon
be in a position not only to pay bonuses on
the pre-war scale, but to better even the dis-
tributions in the boom years of the early
'nineties. The life policy is one of the few
things which have not advanced in price
during recent disordered years, and though
the cost of handling insurance has neces-
sarily increased, as the comparisons above
show, improved interest earnings have
more than made good the extra expenses.
During the past live years interest earnings
have improved Bs. 7d. per £lOO of funds —
a considerable item on over 39 millions of
investments. The interest return has moved
in this way over many years:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1905.. £4 9 8 p.c. 1914.. £4 12 10 p.c.
1910.. 4 9 8 „ 1916.. 417 5 „
1911. . 4 9 8 „ 1917. . 419 4 ,„
1912.. 4 10 5 „ 1918. .519 „
1913.. 4 11 8 „ 1919.. 5 1 5 „
It is unlikely that there will be much further
advance; probably we are now at about the
crest of the wave. Many of the A.M.P.’s
high-interest investments, however, are long-
distance ones, so its income from this source,
should be handsome for many years to come.
Last year witnessed a further spurt in
the expense rate :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £8 15 6 p.c. 1914.. £8 15 6 p.c.
1909.. 81211 „ 1915.. 8 9 7 „
1910. . 8 7 1 „ 1916.. 816 3 „
1911. . 815 2 „ 1917.. 818 10 „
1912.. 8 15 5 „ 1918.. 8 10 8 „
1913. . 8 13 3 „ 1919. .9 4 0,,
It thus cost about 9s. p.c. more than the
pre-war average to handle last year’s busi-
ness. The increase over recent perform-
ances calls for explanation. For a start, so
that its staff might keep pace with b.e.1.,
last year the Society paid out £18,479 more
in salaries and staff-bonuses than in 1918.
Taxes are also increasing. £86.682 having
been handed over to various Governments
last year, compared with £47,454 five years
ago. ' The extra ha’penny war-postage alone
cost the Society £3674 last year. The
A.ALP. management is so concerned about
the amount it is now called upon to pay in
taxes that one page of the latest report
is devoted to reprinting a portion of general-
manager H. W. Apperly’s presidential
address to the N.S.W T . Insurance Institute,
wherein he questioned the fairness of the
Dolicv-holders’ funds of a life-office being
heavily taxed. But the very high interest
earnings which the A.M.P. and other life
offices are able to .show nowadays are due
to abnormal conditions created by Govern-
ment operations during the war period
the national credit having been stretched
to such an extent that fighting funds were
obtainable onjiy by higher-interest induce-
ments. Surely it is a fair thing that those
who benefited by these abnormal rates should
be called upon to help the Governments to
pay the bill? There is so wide a margin
between the extra income being earned by
\M T investments and what the Society
is called upon to pay in taxation that, as
mentioned above, the prospects of record
bonuses are bright—in other words, one
effect of the war may be to actually reduce
the cost of insurance.
The big factor in increasing last year’s
expense rate was the large volume of new
business handled. Including annuities,
24.115 new policies assuring praet cally 9i
millions were written, compared with
22.504 policies assuring almost eight mil-
lions in 1918. An unusually large propor-
tion of' the new business comprised whole-
life policies, probably the easiest c’aSs of
insurance for a management to handle, and
certainly for the young insurer the best to
take: but since the premium rates are lower,
while the business is equally as expensive to
write as other classes of insurance from
which a larger volume of first-year pre-
miums flows in, the past year’s new business
expense rate is a little heavier than it would
otherwise be. Applying The Bulletin’s
method of estimating old business to have
cost 7 p.c. of renewal premiums and annu-
ities 3 p.c., and charging the balance of the
year’s expenses to new business, this result
show's up:—
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums, perises. ness Cost.
1877 i. £363,345 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.c.
1887 .. 837.164 103,694 131.591 70.1 „
1897 .. 1,220.405 105.788 179.215 87.4 „
1910 .. 2.022.470 185,559 291,775 79.8 „
1914 .. 2.421,995 219.570 367,601 89.6 „
1915 .. 2,521.634 232,768 369,172 82.5 „
1916 . . 2,634,290 276,803 408,350 80.6 „
1917 .. 2,777,533 261,363 434.986 91.7
1918 .. 2,336.991 332.635 433,514 70.4 „
1919 . . 2,906,091 319,998 477,688 85.6 „
That 85.6 p.c. is only a couple of points
above the average of the previous five years.
The latest new business, by the way, carried
total assurances in force to beyond the 100-
millions mark, or, taking bonus additions
into consideration, at December 31 the
Society had at: risk 125 millions—an aver-
age of over £2O per head for every inhabi-
tant of the Commonwealth and Maoriland.
Bonus distributions are rapidly improv-
ing again. For 1917, wdien the Society
experienced its heaviest losses, actuarv C.
A. Elliott could unearth only £696.553 of
distributable surplus; for 1918 £1.005,931
w T as handed out; and for the past 12 months
the management wfill shortly distribute bonus
certificates for £1,197,112, which will pro-
vide reversionary bonuses equal to about
£2 070.000. This cash-bonus distribution
will represent 37.44 p.c. of last year’s total
premiums (excluding annuities), or 38 p.c.
of total participating premiums, only
slightly under pre-war performances:—
1888-1893 (boomyears) .. 40.3 p.c. of premiums.
1893-1898 .. .. 34.1 „
1898-1903 .. .. 34.8 „
1903-1908 . . . . 36.0 ~
1908-1913 . . . . 38.2 „
1914 39.2 ..
1915 30.8 ~
1916 30.1 „
1917 18.6 „
1918 32.6 „
1919 38
The basis on which the A.M.P. estimates
its distributable surplus is, of course, very
conservative. Though interest earnings
now exceed 5 p.c. p.a., policy liabilities are
estimi *:ed on the assumption that funds will
in future earn only 3 p.c. p.a. Hence, be-
sides the surplus revealed, huge untapped
reserves are withheld from view. During
its 71 years the A.M.P. has distributed
over 244 millions of bonuses to its Ordinary
policy-holders.
The Industrial department continues to
make rapid headwmy :
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1908.. £54,284 £2,584 £36,018 £15,682
1909.. 77,723 2,821 43,488 31,414
1910.. 105,438 4,189 51,639 49,610
1911.. 140,560 5,775 67,555 67,230
1912.. 187,912 6,677 74,998 106,237
1913.. 230,388 8,829 86,776 134,783
1914.. 275,118 9,589 90,558 174,971
1915.. 313,303 15,760 94,016 203,527
1916.. 362,133 18,826 107,855 236,452
1917.. 432,038 29,635 127,432 274,971
1918.. 503,360 35,140 145,262 322,958
1919.. 593.859 30,850 181,379 381,630
The expense rate was a little heavier than
for 1918: 30.5 p.c. as compared with 28.8
p.c.; still, that is a considerably better per-
formance than for previous years. This
30.5 p.c. set alongside the 9.2 p.c. of the
Ordinary department illustrates the big dif-
ference between the two classes of insur-
ance. Any Industrial policy-holder wdio
can manage to scrape together the quarterly
premiums necessary in the Ordinary depart-
ment (and there should be many of them in
this continent of savings-bank depositors)
should not hesitate to transfer to the branch
in which infinitely greater benefits are offer-
ing. The chairman stated the other day that
the Industrial was “satisfactorily fulfilling
one of its chief functions, viz., that of a
feeder for the Ordinary department.” Still,
it is doubtful whether insurance offices gen-
erally are making sufficiently energetic
efforts to sell the public, which knows next
to nothing about what it is buying, the
best brand of insurance. The “Wild Cat”
was lately consulted about a case in which
one agent (not A.M.P.) traded off an Indus-
trial infant-endowment policy on to the
wife of a £4OO per annum man ! Anyhow,
the manner in which the average amount
assured by new policies in the A.M.P. In-
dustrial department has increased —£55 for
the past year, compared with £47 for .1918
and £3B five years ago—suggests that with a
little coaxing some of the new policy-holders
might have managed a better deal. Tin-
actuary estimates a surplus of £32.766 for
the past year, providing £47,000 of rever-
sionary bonuses.
The A.M.P.’s 42 millions-odd of assets are
distributed in the highly satisfactory man-
ner shown in the last column of the follow
ing comparison:—
1905. 1915. 1918. 1919.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Loans on mortgage.. 43.5 36.7 25.7 25.4
Public securities .. 26.7 41.3 52.8 56.-6
Premises .. .. 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8
Foreclosures . . .. 2.9 .1 .1 .1
Loans on policies .. 20.5 16.3 13.8 13.2
Other assets .. .. 4.6 3.8 2.9 2.9
Over eight millions are in War Loan.
* -> * *
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere;
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends, Reserves. Reserves.
1910 .. £3,532 0 p.c. = £2500 £1032 £4.159
1911 . . 5,562 6 „ „ 3000 2562 6,721
1912 .. 5,694 6 „ „ 3000 2594 9,315
1913 . . 7,689 6 „ „ 3000 4689 14,004
1914 ..- 9,340 8 „ ~ 4000 5340 19,344
1915 ... 5,510 7 „ „ 8600 2010 21,354
1916 . . 3.804 7 „ „ 3500 304 21,658
1917 . . 3,022 54 „ „ 2750 272 21,930
1918 . . 6,614 7 „ „ 3500 2114 24,044
1919 . . 10,973 10 „ ~ 6000 5973 30,017
Assets written up .. 7003 37,020
1920 .. 12,261 10 p.c. = 5000 7261 44,281
Set aside for taxation .. 2500 41,781
During the year this back-country carrying
co. passed over its Murray River packets
to an independent concern, receiving £18.006
in shares in exchange. This was apparently
£7003 in excess of their old book value, for
that amount has cropped up in a contin-
gency reserve since the last accounts
appeared; so in the table above assets are
regarde4 as having been written up to that
extent. The co., like its more successful
N. S. Wales competitor, Wright, Heaton and
Co., Ltd., has had another very successful
year—owing to drought and importing activi-
ties these carrying and customs-agency con-
cerns have had a record lot of produce and
goods to drag about. Consequently this one’s
earnings have expanded in this way: 1918,
£60,327; 1919, £73,857; 1920, £85,363.
Expenses have moved ahead, too, of course,
but there has been a handsome margin of
profit. The figures shown for the past year
are after writing off an unusually large
amount (£3297) for depreciation of property
and plant. The management nowadays views
its fixed assets with a very cautious eye, for
13 years ago it was caught napping, and dis-
covered that its plant, etc., was not worth
all the books claimed. The result was that
ss. per share had to be swept away as lost.
After the clean-up only very moderate divi-
dends were paid for some years, while the
co.’s position was strengthened; and now,
besides the paid capital of £50,000, there are
£41,781 of reserves to help shareholders’
dividends. This shows the progress in another
way
1908. 1914. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . £34,854 £40,184 £71,455 £79,212
plant & property . . 37,297 49,683 40,882 47,193
Book debts . . 40,985 41,413 77,246 90,583
Merchandise . . 10,356 17,828 31,001 32,883
Cash, etc. .. 3,045 3,106 5,343 5,834
The amounts due to the co. are. very heavy,
and when the back country is in the grip of
a prolonged drought book debts don’t look
the safest kind of asset. However, the
balance-sheet remarks that the figures are
shown “after making provision for all bad
and doubtful debts.” Since all but £ll9B
of shareholders’ capital and reserves are tied
up in this one item, the co. necessarily has
to lean heavily on outsiders. Of the £79,212 of
liabilities. £28,470 represents bank overdraft
and £38,816 trade debts. To meet the liabili-
ties there are book debts, stock and casli
amounting to £129,300. Last year’s profits
having been made under abnormal conditions,
the figures cannot be taken as a guide to
prospects. It is an erratic business and
results necessarily vary with the seasons. But
seeing that there are at present about £94.000
of funds to work for £50.000 of shareholders’
capital, the earning of reasonable dividends
has been made much easier than was formerly
the case. If everything continues to work
out well, old shareholders might even look
forward to the dav when their lost capital
will be represented by scrip again.
London Stores, Ltd... which bought a
men’s outfitting business in Melbourne, and
started with various goodwill and other
intangible items representing £20,368 ol tin-
capital : „
Written To Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1912. . £7,293 8 p.e.=; £4,200 £3,093 £23,27.)
£ 1666 added to goodwill items. . . 24,941
1913.. 9,702 8 p.c.= 5,600 £1596 2,506 22,43.)
1914.. 11,003 8 „ „ 5,600 704 4,699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 „ „ 6,300 645 8,187 9,549
1916.. 15,134 10 „ „ 7,000 604 7,530 2,019
Reserves'.
1917.. 18,330 10 „ „ 7,000 549 10,781 8,762
1918.. 19,040 10 „ „ 7,000 496 11,544 20,306
1919.. 22,111 15 „ „ 10,500 457 11,124 31,430
1920.. 28,829 15 „■„ 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
After providing for depreciation of plant,
etc., and writing £7OO off a building altera-
tion account, London Stores. Ltd., discloses
a net profit equal to over 39 p.c. of paid
capital. This looks like profiteerings but
actually may be nothing of the sort. Not
unlikely it i.s a very striking illustration
of what happens when a cash trader is
assisted by both a rising market dud an
active demand for his wares. Large profits
do not necessarily infer that excessive prices
have been charged. In dull times, when
there is small demand for his commodities,
the dealer may show only small aggregate
profits yet charge unduly large prices for
the little he does sell. But in a business like
the rag trade, in which there is fierce compe-
tition and which includes so many small
shopmen, chances of traders arranging “hon-
orable understandings’’ as to prices are
small. The shop which charges a penny
more than its competitor a few doors down
the street is inviting permanent loss of cus-
tom. Many of the old “select” houses long
ago decided that the best results were obtain-
able by securing a large turnover of goods
giving only a moderate profit. The capacity
of consumers to buy is what counts most.
London Stores, like all retailers, has found
trading conditions very favorable during tin-
past few years, and every annual report
records a “substantial increase” in turnover
—all, of course, the result of our part in
the war having been financed with a p.n.
London Stores. Ltd., gross profits have
moved this -way since its second year:—
1913 .. £45,289 I 1917 .. £61,809
1914 .. 47,532 1918 .. 67,740
1915 . . 54,127 I 1919 . . 75,983
1916 . . 56,396 | 1920 . . 95,160
The figures have thus more than doubled in
seven years; meantime exes, (including
taxes) have moved from £35,587 to £66,331.
the latest net profit being nearly three times
the 1913 figures. Paid capital has remained
stationary at £70,009 since the co. took over
the old business, paying £16,659 for goodwill
and outlaying about £ll,OOO for building
alterations. The co. has had such a good
run, however, that whereas at the end of its
first year there were net. tangible assets ol
14s. to represent each £1 share, after mak-
ing the latest handsome 15 p.c. distribution
to shareholders there were net tangible assets
with a book value of 80s. 6d. per share. Tin-
movements in the individual balance-sheet
items have been as follows: —
1912. 1914. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. £7,310 £5,526 £28,818 £36,100
Stock . . . . 31,237 37,250 85,604 98,819
Property, etc. .. 41,065 40,199
Book debts . . 3,257 3,230 4,030 5,054
Plant, etc. . . 5,024 6,332 4,369 4,714
Cash, etc. . . 14,728 14,085 7,686 20,465
Few retailing cos. have been able to build
up their businesses so rapidly without ask-
ing .shareholders for additional funds.
* *• * *
South Brisbane Gas. Co. has been in hot
water again. A couple of years ago it got
into holts with the Queensland Gas Referee,
and, incidentally, the directors threatened
The Bulletin with an action for libel
because of comments this page had made on a
writing-up of assets. Finally, the Auditor-
General was called in to survey the co.’s
accounts, and he, too, had some very severe
things to say about an alleged revaluation
which led to a writing-up of assets and a
subsequent issue of bonus debentures. He
concluded that the move had been designed
“to anticipate legislation which was
probable.” Recently the Gas Referee had
to consider a fresh claim for increased prices
on the strength of heavier production costs.
He remarks: —
Some very extraordinary claims were made by
this co. with regard to cost of production. The
total sum claimed by it amounted to £59,637,
which, when worked out by the formula laid down
by the Act, represents approximately 10s. 2d. per
1060 ft. Further comment is, I think, unnecessary
He fixes the price at 7s. 7d. per 1000 ft.,
subject to a 10 p.c. discount for prompt
settlements. Incidentally, he reports that
from his investigations he “can only come
to the Conclusion that the undertaking has
not been managed in an efficient and
economical manner.” Taking the three
principal Queensland gas cos. he shows pro-
duction of gas per ton of coal carbonised as
follows:
Brisbane Gas Co. . . . . 12,257 cub. it.
Ipswich Gas Co. . . . . 12.100 cub. ft.
South Brisbane C 0... .. 10,760 cub. ft.
The report proceeds :
It is generally admitted that vertical retorts, as


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS-.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALCETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST R°U T E TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A ‘WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
;Vn < ;, r ' ca - *° be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- i/fi / 9cL (minimum
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
Canada .. 2/4
1 ,o j »u- (.minimum
1/0 115/-, 20 words)
1 , 9 i 7d. (minimum
• "/11/8,20 words)
U- S. A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4 (
111/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.B.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. bitv 1346 (3 lines).
Quean’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 258*.
•1. MiI.WARD. Manager in tI
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ’
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within tli" reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* » * *
The man who leaves little to be desired may be
either a paragon of virtue or a burglar. The roof-
ing that leaves little to be des.red is Adamax
Asphaltum Roofing. It is a twentieth-century roof-
ing, absolutely unaffected by time, rust, atmospheric
acids and chemical fumes. The most serviceable
roofing for bungalows, factories, garages, farm build-
ings, etc., costing less than the price of iron and
less for freight charges. For further particulars
write to William Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
and Adelaide. — Advt.
# # * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter received
from G. H. Odling, Parramatta Road, Sydney, dated
26th March, 1919: “Dear Sirs, —In reply to your
inquiry we have pleasure in stating that the wood
pipe laid down in our smiths’ shop, which conveys
the blast from the fans to the smiths’ forges, has
proved in every way satisfactory. We have not had
to renew any part, and the pipe is as good as when
laid down five (5) years ago. (Sgd.) G. H. Odling.”
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian
Wood Pipe Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road,
Longueville, N.S.W. Contractors to all State
Governments. — Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer:
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
00 Queen-street,. Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years* practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• * * W
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Renilap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby Sc Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
61 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONE-E.R Leather Belting'.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
_ ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne—Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
compared with horizontal retorts, give an Increased
output of gas per ton of coal carbonised... .During
1910 the Brisbane Oas Co. used horizontal retorts, the
Ipswich vertical, and the South Brisbane vertical
with a small proportion of horizontal retorts.... The
average output of gas per ton of coal carbonised
by the South Brisbane Gas Co. for the year ending
June 30, 1917, was stated at 12,440 cub. ft., con-
sequently a decrease has occurred in the make for
the year 1919 of 1680 cub. ft. per ton of coal used.
This is a very serious discrepancy, and shows that
some 15 p.c. more coal has been used than was neces-
sary, besides the additional expenditure in wages
involved through handling the excess coal used....
The coal used by the Brisbane and South Brisbane
coa. was nearly all obtained from the same mines.
The Gas Referee talks of “undue delay” in
installing retorts, and of the “very inade-
quate method” of keeping records of total
gas made. If the allegations of the Gas
Referee are correct it is about time the eo.’s
shareholders had something to say to the
management.
* * * *
Metters, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, jail engines, enamel-ware, etc., who
paid £29,656 for the goodwill of the business.
In the table this item is not regarded as an
asset:—
r r. Writ- To Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves. Deficit.
1912.. £18,665 10 p.c. = £11,844 £2199 £4,022 £23,356
Premiums on new shares . . 3,177 20,179
1918.. 24,305 10 p.c. = 14,173 3758 6,374 13,805
Premiums on new shares .. 375 13,430
1914.. 15,718 Nil 4995 10,723 2,707
1 Reserves.
1915.. 17,606 5 p.c. = 8,206 5087 4,313 1,606
1916.. 22,487 6 „ „ 9,848 4609 8,030 9,636
1917.. 23,794 6 „ „ 9,848 5206 8,740 18,376
1918.. 23,434 6 „ „ 9,848 5667 7,919 26,295
1919.. 23,907 8 „ „ 13,131 5825 4,951 31,246
Premiums on new shares .. 25 31,271
Transferred to capital .. £82,794 )
1920.. 39,610 8 p.c. = 14,453 6687 18,470 ( 10 ’ y *'
Shareholders in this co. are now reaping the
harvest of their patience during the years
when only moderate divs. were handed out,
though disclosed profits were good enough
to have provided something better. Metters,
Ltd., has been steadily expanding since it
took over in 1911, but it has never had suffi-
cient shareholders’ funds to finance the
growth of business and shake off the heavy
debt incurred in the purchase of factory and
shop properties. Still, with the substantial
surpluses left in the business, the directors
have been able to push ahead nicely, so
during the past year they considered it* good
enough to capitalise some of the accumula-
tions. The shuffle was fully warranted, for
the restriction of dividend distributions had
the same effect in providing working funds
as if larger dividends had been paid and
new shares had been then offered to holders
for cash. It is not unusual for cos. to make
unduly large distributions to shareholders
with the object of attracting subscriptions to
new share issues; but the Metters, Ltd.,
crowd practised self-denial, and for the
money they thus left in the venture they
are honestly entitled to scrip. One fully-
paid new ordinary bonus share was issued
for every five previously held, and on the lot
a div. at the rate of 8 p.c. has been paid.
Besides the transfer of reserves, capital has
also been enlarged by the issue of 50,000 7
P- c - r£k cum# P re f s -> though at the balance
£12,._»<9 of this issue had not been paid up.
The expansion of the business is clearly
visible in this comparison of the balance-
sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1913. 1919. 1920.
Overdrafts .. ..£26,689 £32,976 £29,593
Other liabilities .. 26,607 39,420 47,638
Assets.
Land and buildings. . 48,000 84,399 93,947
Plant 31,784 3/, 920 62.928
Stock.. .. .. 75,384 107,326 122,630
Book debts . . . . 36,418 40,180 59,134
Other assets. . .. 175 11,491 16,026
Extensive additions have been made to the
Sydney works during the past year, and that
outlay and the higher cost of stocks have
between them necessitated an increase in
liabilities, notwithstanding the additional
capital got in. A survey of the movements
of each balance-sheet group shows capital
to have been increased £57,005 by new cash
subscriptions during the past seven years,
bringing in also £4OO of share premiums.
Liabilities have meantime grown by
£23,935. The book value of fixed assets has
advanced from £79,784 to £146,875, while
more or less liquid assets have moved from
£111.977 to £197,790. The co.’s position
has thus been strengthened during the period
by about £71,500, an amount equal to prac-
tically half of the paid capital at the com-
mencement of the period.
* *• * *
Farmer and Co., Ltd., Sydney, is the latest
to capitalise reserves. At the last balance
£llO,OOO had been piled up, plus £74,000 in
a reserve for contingencies and taxation.
Now £lOO,OOO is being emptied out to pro-
vide ohe bonus share for every two ordi-
naries at present held, increasing the ordinary
paid capital to £300,000. The directors “em-
phasise the fact” that this will “involve a
corresponding decrease in the dividend.”
* * * *
Gerald Campbell’s proposal that the
A.M.P. should refund war premiums crashed
badly—No: 15,991; Yes : 3789.
Mutooroo, Block 50, Hampton Plains, is
now going down on what appears to be the
finest oxidised lode yet exposed on the field.
The ore being; broken is similar to what was
obtained near the surface in the big Kal-
goorlie mines. So far only about a third of
the length of the Mutooroo lease has been
tested by surface prospecting, and the only
two places where the lode has been sunk on
are in two shafts 200 ft. apart. North of the
Mutooroo, and about 160 ft. distant from the
spot where the rich stuff is being got, the
Mutooroo North Co. is sinking, and just
across the south boundary Hampton Proper-
ties, Ltd., is pushing down a shaft in search
of the shoot. Still further south the
Mutooroo South Co. is hurrying down.
* * * *
Some Melbourne bi’okers who visited
Hampton Plains during Easter vacation
came back with a chastened Lenten feeling
about prospects at all the show’s, except per-
haps the White Hope. However, Warr.ck’s
strike in the Jessop shaft of the Mutooroo
came so close on their return as to save
the market from another bear squeeze, which
would probably have been as bad as that of
the White Hope, over w’hich a few Adelaide
and Perth plungers were left with a bitter
taste. When the Jessop shaft got down
to below the 50ft. crosscut, where 6ft. of
high-grade ore was proved, values shaded off
a bit, and some holders tipped out
scrip. But Warrick then got into stuff
running to soz. Still more important, Os-
borne’s shaft, 200 ft. to the south, after keep-
ing in poor stuff, got first into 12dwt.
and next into oz. ore. On behalf of Baillieu,
Lionel Robinson, Clark and Co. and himself,
Rutter Clarke has landed 10,000 shares at a
bedrock price of 255., plus an option over
15,000 shares at the same figure, and the
call of 12,500 shares for two months at 30s.
The market valuation of Mutooroo on a shaft
60ft. deep on 7ft. of rich ore and one 50ft.
deep 200 ft. away on oz. ore, is 365. for each
of the 145,000 shares, a total of over
£250,000. What w’on’t a few T good names
and a bit of gold do?
* * * *
How much capital has been put up in the
Commonwealth to prospect Hampton Plains
no one definitely knows, but that found in
London by Robinson and Clark and their
associates is computed at over £600,000. Of
this £134,000 was subscribed for Hampton
Properties; £240,000 for Hampton Gold
Mining areas, fox-merly Hampton Uruguay;
£127,000 for the White Hope and £125,000
for the Hampton- Celebi’ation. Tlie same
ci-owd is reported to have got a finger in
Mutooroo, and also to be considering a float
in which the Pei-natty Central and two ad-
joining blocks owned by Hampton Proper-
ties will figure.
* * * *
The exodus fi’om Hampton Plains (W.A.)
has begun. One co., tired of getting
nothing, has gone to Lawlers, where it is
testing a show’ fi’om which over 3000 tons
have been crushed for over an ounce per
ton. Another disappointed co. is trying to
find something at Mt. Monger, while two
others are nosing around Ive’s Find. Ex-
cept for four or five promising mines, Hamp-
ton Plains has little to write home about.
Few of the cos. operating there have done
more than dig shallow tx’enches or sink
a few pot-holes, and as far as pi*os-
pects are coneexmed most of them have
nothing to justify their existence. Not
more than three or four in the scores of cos.
whose shares are listed on the Stock Ex-
changes could at pi’esent furnish any pay-
able stone for treatment if a mill was on
the spot.
* * * *
Yuanmi Gold Mines (W.A.) has re-
constructed, and there is cheerful talk of
prospects. Some years ago a good make
of ore was worked down to 150 ft., but below
that it became disturbed and unpayable.
Investigation shows that the disturbance was
due to an intrusion. Recent diamond-drilling,
howevei’, has located a solid body of £5
stone in deeper ground. The position has
been also improved by the opening up of two
new shoots in other parts of the property.
* # * *
Apart fx-om producing gold worth about
£lOOO, Golden Point (W.A.) has done vei’y
little but spend money. In the last few
years it has taken about £30,000 from
shareholders and spent nearly all of it in
plant, doing a little prospecting and hunt-
ing for new options. Latterly some w’ork
has been done below 150 ft. in its Westonia
property, and a little grubbing about on two
blocks at Hampton Plains, but so far the
co. has had no luck at either place.
* * * *
A scheme for the resuscitation of Wiluua
(W.A.) has just been put before a French
mining corporation. The corporation is
asked to find £675,000 cash to re-open three
derelicts and to finance the formation of
firewood, water-supply, transport, hotel,
amusement, trading and pastoral cos. Only
about 100 people now live at the dismal
settlement, but when all the enterprises men-
tioned have been established and everything
is in full swing the vendor estimates that
the population will increase by leaps and
bounds and that aggregate yearly profits will
be somewhere in tne neighborhood of £40,000.
He modestly stipulates that his services as
director-general be retained for five years
at a salary of thousands per annum, and has
put himself down for 350,000 £1 promoter’s
shares out of a total issue of 1,025,000. So
far Wiluna has been nothing but a sink for
money on account of the presence of anti-
mony and arsenic; it ruined a couple of
London cos. and crippled several local ones.
* * * *
Bendigo Amalgamated admits having
accumulated a liquid surplus of £BO,OOO, and
confirms the market suspicion that a first
div. is contemplated. If all goes well during
the next few weeks the Board is to consider
the distribution of a sixpenny, which will
take £44,251, and put £6250 into the lap of
the worker under Dyason’s profit-sharing
scheme. When the Amalgamated balanced
at December 31 last it showed surplus liquid
assets of £42,491. Splendid yields from the
Constellation have piled uo cash. This shows
how that mine behaved last month:—
March Tons. Value per ton.
2 344 279.365.
9 347 218.545.
16 335 179.45.
23 372 291.35.
These yields came from the old South Moon
reef and are records. Still, while secretary
Stanfield says that immediate prospects war-
rant the view that there will be further high
returns, he adds that, “on the law of aver-
ages, it is only reasonable to expect a reduc-
tion of values before very long.” Unity nas
got on to better stone, but, after all, its
material is not high-grade, the average for
the latest 1700 tons working out at 28s.
Meantime the biggest producer, Carlisle, is
handling only 18s. stuff. Amalgamated’s
problem is to find something which will fill
the gap when Constellation’s yields fade.
There is probably a year’s extraction ahead
there, but how long values will be main-
tained is another matter. There are hopes
that the Derby line will come to the rescue.
The Nelson is the only shaft on that
line which has been put down below
600 ft. Since Amalgamated took over
it has dug down in that shaft from 1225 ft.
to 1640 ft., and now, from a crosscut at
1445 ft., a bore has passed throueh 2ft.
of promising stone at a depth of 120 ft., and
100 ft. further down has hit 22ft. of quartz
caiTying gold. This threatens to be an exten-
sive deposit, but there is no telling what it
is worth until three months of shaft-sinking
and crosscutting make the new find avail-
able for development. The Derby line has
been noted for erratic values, but the co. is
delving at a depth never before prodded, and
if it should turn up trumps—well. Bendigo
Amalgamated holds three miles of the line.
* * • «
Bourke’s Hill, Emmaville (N.S.W.), went
a round thousand to the bad for the six
months to February. Prayers for rain went
unheeded, so the co. was able to unload only
101 tons concentrates on the boom tin market.
Besides drought troubles, the No. 1 plant
had to plough through a hard and poor patch
to get into position for future profit-earning
—the ground ahead has been proved pay-
able. The half’s troubles sent costs up to
18.5c|., but a regular supply of water should
reduce them. No div. has been paid since Oct.,
1918; and at the balance there was an over-
draft of £1032. Assets, however, included
£lOOO of War Loan, and there was a liquid
surplus of over £BOO, but that was less than
half of what it was six months ago.
* Hr # *
A Victorian syndicate has decided to give
the old South Bischoff (Tas.) another go.
An option has been secured, and it is pro-
posed to float a new co. of 60,000 shares
of 10s. each, 10,000 being handed to holders
in the old co. Development may make a
mine of this property, but the granite_coun-
try is against the co.’s chances.
Tin has been known for many years to
exist in the Barn Bluff region (Tas.).
Aylett’s Reward, a new discovery there,
which is being opened up by a Melbourne
syndicate, is reported as looking very well.
The deposit, a dyke-like formation, has been
proven for 300 ft. square. Inaccessibility
and heavy transportation require, high tin
contents to justify regular mining.
«■ *■ * .#
Operations at the Endurance (Tas.) are
proving highly remunerative, the last clean-
up giving 20 tons tin oxide. The mine is
being worked on a return-water scheme,
making it practically drought-proof.
* * * *
“Bonragi”: Osmiridiurn, now very valu-
able. is to be found on the Yodda goldfields,
N.-E. Papua. At the time of the early
rush —in 1903 and thereabouts—most of
the miners cursed the stuff for the trouble
it gave them in separating it from the allu-
vial gold. The only man I met, in the course
of my duty as warden of the field, who
knew anything about it was the late Max
Hermann. Max showed me in 1904 about
lOOoz of the stuff he had collected. He
picked only the "pieces,” ignoring the small
stuff. He sold in Sydney (to a German, of
course), but I could never learn the prices
he got. Since he was always willing to
buy at the same rate as gold was bringing
on the field (£3 10s. per oz.) it must have
been fairly good. A special report on the
stuff and the localities it was found in was
published in the B.N.G. Government reports,
but since then I have never heard anything
about it. On the Gira field, in the same
district, the stuff was never heard of.
*#■■>{■ *
“Merops”: “H.E.D.” (B. 4/3/’2O) is in
error in stating that vast deposits of coal are
proved in the Otway (Vic.) forest country.
Though small outcrops are found in various
parts, no seam larger than Ift. has been
found. The Vic. Mines Department has
drilled in several spots to over 1000 ft. with-
out finding payable deposits of black coal.
Brown coal is, however, found at Cape Ofway
and Dean’s Marsh. “H.E.D.’s” statement
that to the north of Traralgon a mountain
of black coal exists is wrong. The coal
measures cease a few miles north of the
town, and silurian shales show’ up, continuing
right on to the Murray.
# * * *
“Awaruite”: Many fortunes are attributed
to mining investment, but for a small out-
lay the following takes some beating.
Twenty-odd years ago the Keep-It-Dark
(M.L.) was in trouble, having lost the lode,
and the end seemed in sight. All hope
centred on a certain crosscut picking up the
ore. The bottom being out of the share
market, a Reefton resident bought 2000
shares at 2d. each as a long shot. Shortly
afterwards good gold values were got, and
the co. has been working ever since. The
lucky investor collected £7 ss. per share in
divs. before selling out at £6 135., giving him
a total return of £27,800 for his £l7 outlay.


A NEW MINISTRY MEETS THE SKELETON IN THE CUPBOARD.


in'
a
IIUL-Nl IUL -N
urn
lIP 51'COOL AND
REFRESHING -
\
\yYade Zro/nPi/reSfa/f
w/t
a
linn
a*-*"
Wm
HC
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
lhjl
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mears’ Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.
We would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Guarantee Proves its Bonafides.
The Wears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard's Building, 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARHING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Departed for England to spend the twi-
light near his cradle, Colonel J. S. Lyster,
who for close on 40 years helped to direct
State and Commonwealth military training.
Originally an officer in the Indian Army, he
came to Bananaland in the ’eighties, and
joined the State military staff. In later days
he was C.S.O. there and in South Aus. It
was his boast that many of the leading
generals of the A.I.F. had been trained by
His Honor
EDWARDS, of
Maoriland
Supreme Court.
him in his long
spell in Banana-
la n d Chauvel,
Brudenell White,
Sellheim, Brand,
Forsyth, Dodd s,
Wilson, Goddard,
and others, most
of whom, the first
three especially,
were his subordi-
nates at D.H.Q. for
years. Lyster
was retired
without pension,
after many
years of useful
service, and his
position is a strik-
ing endorsement of
The Bulletin’s
reiterated claims
of a pension for
our regular soldiers.
Hefty slackers have been so successful in
getting the K.R.E. that it it now understood
to mean Kick Behind Earned.
Goold-Adams, who recently died at Cape-
town, on his way from Queensland to Eng-
land, left a host of friends when he passed
on the job to B ; I1 Lennon. He was ac-
claimed by the Courier, on his arrival in
Queensland, as “a simple English gentle-
man.” His Ex. promptly took up the chal-
lenge, hoisted the flag of Erin, and said
that his life-partner was plain Maggie
Riordan. Their two olive branches were
born in Brisbane.
Old Judge Holroyd was one evening among
the guests at a big dinner given in a Mel-
bourne restaurant to celebrate some event
in the history of a Toorak family. It was
noticed that his Honor was not doing well.
He had left the oysters untasted, he was
contemplating his soup as a decorative effect
only. Presently the lady on his a
member of the host’s family, whispered : “You
are not eating, Judge. Are you not well?”
‘‘Oh, perfectly well,” was Holroyd’s reply.
“But I have just recognised in the waiter
who is attending this end of the table a man
to •whom I once gave five years with a thrash-
ing, and he threatened to do for me when he
came out. I won’t take the soup, thank
you.”
Will Dyson has prepared for private cir-
culation a beautiful memorial volume of his
late wife’s work. Ruby Lind’s drawings are
familiar to Australia through Tiie Bulle-
tin, and have been warmly appreciated. Her
work in England won her a reputation as
the best penwoman in the country, and the
memorial volume will contain a choice selec-
tion from her work there. Demobilisation
has lost to Mr. Dyson the addresses of some
intimate
friends o f the
A.I.F. to whom
it has not been
possible to
send notice of
the forthcoming
book. Any of
these who
might desire to
subscribe are
asked to
address Edward
Dyson, 75 Mit-
ford-street, St.
Kilda (Vic.).
A. C. WILLIS,
Gen. Sec. of
the coal-miners
and chief of
the Direct
Action labor-
bosses.
The death of A. H. Peake removes the
second of three young fellows who used to
knock out a crust in the little township
of Narracoorte (S.A.) while training to be
Treasurers in three States. The oldest of
them and the first to go was William Shiels,
who had become Treasurer and other things
in Victoria. Peake, who was clerk of the
local district council, was Treasurer of S.
Aus. as far back as 1905. The survivor of
the three is James Gardiner, who got the
job in W.A.
Walter Eassie, who died last week in
Sydney, aged 47, was a London-born black-
and-white artist of whose work The Bul-
letin thought so highly that it invited him
some time ago to join its staff. Eassie
was, however, the most modest and diffident
of men, and wasn’t able to persuade himself
that he could ever satisfactorily do a set job.
Having some means he preferred the leis-
urely enjoyment of a simple life, and. besides
doing a drawing now and then for this
paper, exercised his skill as a poster-designer
when the commission appealed to him, and
accepted also a little illustration work. He
had a likeable imagination and a still more
likeable disposition.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Looking over the back Government bench one
misses the short, tubby figure of Archibald, who,
apart from physical aspects that provided grotesque
profiles from every angle, differed in other ways
from the normal man. The old battler, who lat-
terly resented his sacking by Labor with abject
hysteria, was a logical if impassioned speaker in
his day, and retained an honesty of conviction
which some of the present bloods of the caucus lack.
He had amassed a large quantity of historical, eco-
nomic and philosophic lore by reading hard at
night after his daily toil. In history it was diffi-
cult to shake him, and he could talk about any
episode from Romulus and Remus to H. G. Wells
in a way that staggered anybody who saw and heard
him for the first time. One of his favorite periods is
the French Revolution. When Archie’s attitude
on Conscription threw him into the society of his
former political enemies, one of his previous col-
leagues made allusion to the old man’s favorite
fad. “Now that Archibald is sitting with the Tories,”
he said, “I suppose he wishes that the French
Revolution had been written backwards.”
Just-dead ex-Cbief Justice Stoue, of
ralia, held one of his first briefs when in
the ’sixties he was engaged as counsel for
Arthur Shenton, at that time editor-pro-
prietor of the Perth Gazette and W . A.
Times, the parent of the West Australian
and Western Mail, of which Stone himself
was editor some ten years later. West-
ralian editors couldn’t take liberties in
those days, and Shenton had the temerity to
publish an article criticising a judgment
given by Chief Justice Burt. Brouglft before
Burt himself for this “shocking offence,”
Shenton was sentenced to two months’ impri-
sonment in the waterside lock-up and a fine
of £2OO. Stone was so overcome that he
placed his arms round Shenton > and burst
into tears. He at once organised a'big deputa-
tion to wait on the Chief Justice at his
home praying his Honor to release the pri-
soner on account of his very delicate state
of health, but they couldn’t shift Burt. Then
the crowd got loose and started to take the
roof off the lock-up, and after four days’
imprisonment the editor was allowed to
leave on signing an apology addressed to
and written by his Honor. Shenton was
taken to his home, but died within an hour.
Burt wasn’t lynched. But it was the nar-
rowest escape ever he had.
Vic. railway employees propose to have a
pilgrimage to Frank Hyett’s grave on April
25. It -would be more to the purpose if they
arranged for a pilgrimage to the home of
Frank’s widow and children, and built a
cairn of banknotes out of the rises they are
getting (£668,000 in all this year), mainly
through his efforts.
Retiring French President Poincaire, on
leaving the Palace of the Elysee, took the
house once occupied by that wild-cat jour-
nalist Henri Rochefort, who, after he had
been sent (along with other leaders of the
Communist insurrection of 1871) to New
Caledonia, managed to escape to Australia.
In Melbourne the little literary coterie of
the period, headed by Marcus Clarke, gave
him a dinner.
Here is one man, at any rate, who has
heard a call to a poorer parish. Halford,
Bishop of the Anglican flock at Rockhamp-
ton, has resigned the gaiters and other
emoluments to take on the hard, poorly-paid
bullocking of an outback “brother.” And
he knows what it me.ans: for five years he
was head of St. Andrew’s Bush Brother-
hood. No more famous University athlete
was ever in the church in Australia than
Halford; at Oxford he was captain of his
college eight, he was in the football eleven
for three years, and he was almost as good
at cricket.
Hugh Sinclair, one of the delegates who
are to go to England to fix prices and con-
ditions of the butter contract with John Bull,
is a deputy-chairman of the Farmers’ Dairy
I reduce and Food Committee, but he has an
e,ven keener interest in butter than that.
As a young man in Queensland he invented
a steam cream-separator—probably the first
—making it from scrap-iron. On trial it
ran splendidly, but something went wrong
with the. steam-gauge, and the separator aud
a quantity of Sinclair’s hair were blown
through the roof. He had no funds to start
again, so he bought a bottle of hair-fertiliser
and let the other discussion drop.
Gaston Lievain, Sydney’s best-knowm cook,
died last week, aged 55. Ilis small, round
figure, bald head and, walrus moustache had
been seen flitting in and out of the Paris
House kitchens during the past 25 years.
In his prime his poulct en casserole —his
specialty—was spoken of appreciatively bv
travelled gourmets all over the world.
Late Gov. Goold-Adams, a capital speaker,
divided his lecturing attentions in Brisbane
between the Irish Association and the Hel-
lenic Society. When he spoke to the Greeks
on “the beautiful island of Cyprus” they
enthused so much that the Gov. didn’t reach
home till after midnight. At the last meet-
ing of the Executive Council ivhich his Ex.
attended, Ministers talked of legislation to
help widows and orphans. Sir Hamilton
urged them on. “Something must he done,”
he said, “to take the incessant drudgery out
of the life of the working-man’s wife, too.”
That showed the natural inclinations of the
man.
John Adamson, who topped the last Sen-
ate poll in Bananaland, is a battler. He
was a parson when he entered politics in the
cause of Labor. He next denounced politics
as “too dirty” to be associated with, and
took to canvassing for a living. Appa-
rently politics had a washing-day; anyhow
being returned for Rockhampton* he entered
again the unclean circle. When Labor
swarmed in at the polls in 1915 he was
awarded the Railway portfolio, but this he
was compelled to shed because of his “un-
disciplined” disapproval of Fihelly’s speech.
The Nationalists subsequently took him up,
but he preferred the Independent ticket at
the 1917 Federal elections and polled last.
Thirsting for Fihelly’s blood he contested
Paddington in 1918, .but was defeated. His
next campaign was a success, and now he
has a safe seat in the Senate for six years.
For one who has worn a parson’s frock John
has offered to punch more people than any-
body else in his class.
Captain Donald McLeod, of the 12th Bat-
talion, came back to Westralia with his
right arm missing. Nevertheless, when dis-
charged from the A.1.F., he straightway
went prospecting at Lalla Rookh, in the
Nor’-West. There, single-handed—and left-
handed at that —he has lifted 01 tons of ore
and got G4oz. of gold from it in a few
months.
W. A. Holman’s notification of his inten-
tion to “take silk” provoked the expected
wail from the N. S.
Wales Bar. The
present generation
of senior counsel
are for the most
part a dull lot and
they know it; also
they know Holman
isn’t a dull lot. It
will pay him better
from every point
of view to start as
a K.C. Ilis law,
and the case gener-
ally, will in that
event be got up for
him by a junior,
and his chief busi-
ness will be to pre-
sent the results to
the Court. At that
task there is no
one now in sight
in N. S. Wales
who is likely to
match him.
DUNCAN E.
McBRYDE, the
Broken Hillion-
airc, and one-
time Victorian
M.L.G.
Labor will miss Claude Marquet, car-
toonist, of Sydney Worker, who was
drowned on Saturday while crossing from
Botany to his home at Kurnell. Marquet
was originally a compositor, and while still
working at his trade —on Melbourne Punch
—contributed many drawings to The Bul-
letin, principally dealing with the humor
of the comps’ room. Then he got on to
political subjects, and, as he advanced, this
kindly artist, with the features of a prize-
fighter, put a punch into every drawing.
His untimely death by drowning recalls that
some years ago. while fishing at Bondi —
he was an enthusiastic angler—he was
washed off the rocks, and had a narrower
escape than most men live through to tell
about.
The smoke-rooms in Macquarie-street will
miss Tom Smith, the Labor M.L.A. who
went down with Dick Meagher and a dozen
others in the electoral maelstrom for Sydney
division last month. Of a literary turn,
his occupation as seaman and steward gave
him a chance, while still young, of seeing
many lands. Coming to N. S. Wales about
six years ago, he went north, shearing and
rouseabouting, pushing a bike or humping a
bluey as best suited. Members heard no
better yarns than his of the bush, told with
a Dublin flavoring.
Tom Skeyhill, the one-time blind signal-
ler—the first man to get on a platform and
tell Australia something at first hand about
Gallipoli—has lately been in Canada, lec-
turing and finding materials for more lec-
tures. Now he is going to Europe:—
In September next I leave for Britain, France,
Germany and Austria, Russia and Japan. I have
been selected to go on this tour to study
the conditions of the various countries and
return to the American lecture platform with
the fruit of my harvesting. I will put in
most of my time in Russia. I do not know how,
when or where I shall get into Russia; I only know
I am going, and think there will be no difficulty
about arranging meetings with Lenin, Trotsky and
the others; and, as hitherto, The Bulletin will
share my notes and observations. Incidentally,
the English Department of the University of Washing-
ton is at present giving a course on Australian Litera-
ture, which really amounts to a critical examination
of The Bulletin and its writers, with special refer-
ence to what seems to the American its astounding-
wealth of verse.
Baljooning was at one time almost as
much the rage as aeroplaning is now, and
Sydney in the ’fifties welcomed one of the
world’s most eminent performers, John Hamp-
ton. He had made many ascents in Lon-
don at the time of the great Exhibition
(1851) in a balloon which he had named
Erin-go-bragh. (Hampton had had a fine
balloon destroyed by fire as he descended at
Portobello Gardens, Dublin. The people of
the city subscribed for a new one, the largest
but one in the world, and the first made in
Ireland. Hence the name.) The gold-fever
attracted him to Australia, but he found
that ballooning was not as profitable as inn-
keeping. so he kept, first, a hotel in Pitt-
street (Moore-street now covers the site),
next the Metropolitan (now the site of the
Daily Telegraph office), and finally the
Oxford, in King-street, where he died.
STRAWS IN THE WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A thousand busy little sounds
Come tripping to the ear,
And each one chuckles as it bounds
About the atmosphere ;
In manner most genteel they try
To walk without a mince,
And all their tiny voices cry:
“Prepare—here comes the Prince!’’
I hear the brushes’ gentle kiss
On splendid tall silk hats,
And catch their wild ecstatic bliss
As they start on the spats.
The bristles sing in proud delight;
The tall hats Shout in glee:
“behold, my face is smooth and bright—
The Prince will look on me!”
With music like the winds that pass
Among the swaying trees,
A thousand dames before a glass
Are bending at the knees,
That they may curtsey with due grace.
The swooshing sounds repeat:
“f simply couldn’t show my face
If I fell at his feet!”
A moist, strained sound like stretching dough
Rings in a sweet refrain;
A thousand dull rich girls, I know,
Their lips to sweet smiles train;
And winsome giggles blend with sighs,
Which is quite fitting since
They’re all designed to draw the eyes
Of that sweet boy, the Prince.
As large men movo in hard-starched shirts
There come most noble chants.
What matter that the collar hurts
And that each large man pants?
They’re not the sort of fellows who
Before sbch duties wince,
For really it would never do
To disappoint the Prince.
The leaves of books on etiquette
Skirl loudly as they skim,
While thick fat thumbs among them fret
For How to Speak to Him.
(lark! With a clucking, soughing ’'•>
Blue eyes roll large and fond,
Preparing ogles which should win
The Prince who loves a blonde.
I hear the chorus ebb and sway
As all the voices cry:
The snob)) make ready for their prey !
And that’s the reason why
I seek amid the sounds of cheer
And all the clamor glad
For some kind dirge which sheds a tear
In pity for the lad.
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


'A
%
W&
%
y
n
Write for a copy of our
New Art Catalogue.
It will be sent you
post free.
“Austral ßaincoats
Men’s “Austral” Gabardine Raincoats, slip-on style,
are made with Raglan shoulders, step collar. The
cuffs are plain, or with storm-strap, and the sleeves
are. lined with glissade. Well-cut and finished, these
coats are most popular because of their rain-resisting
qualities. Available in shades of Fawn, in all sizes.
PRICES: 75/-, 95/-
Men’s “Austral” Gabardine Raincoats are smartly
finished with Raglan shoulders and either step collar
or buttoning up to the neck. Other features are the
full skirt, fly front, check woollen lining. These coats
will be found splendid for motoring, riding, travelling
or walking in all weathers. In shades of Fawn only,
in a large range of fittings.
PRICE: 105/-
OTHER PRICES: 126/-, 135/-, 147/-, 168/-, 189/-, 200/-
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1 /- in the £) is allowed
Returned Soldiers in Uniform on all Cash Purchases of £5 or over.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY. SUBURBS AND COUNTRY.
(SOWING BR“ L T . D
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
486=490 GEORGE STREET, 3=17 ROYAL ARCADE,
Branch Store at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
“Austral” Overcoats
and Raincoats
RIGHT on the threshold of May, it is quite
time to think of an Overcoat or Raincoat.
This page will help you to an easy and
satisfactory selection.
For snug warmth, morning or evening; for motoring,
travelling or daily use —a well-cut “Austral” Over-
coat. For protection in all weathers, a smart, easy-
fitting “Austral” Raincoat is unrivalled.
Be sure of one thing in connection with either of these
over-garments —there is nothing better at the price.
“Austral" Overcoats
Men’s “Austral” Overcoats, as shown in the illustra-
tion, are made with Raglan shoulders, fly-buttoning
fronts, and have either wind-strap or gauntlet cuffs.
Available in Australian Tweeds in various designs and
shades of Grey.
PRICES: 75/-, 84/-
Men’s “Austral” Overcoats, as illustrated, may be had
also in Rough-finished Tweed of neat designs of Grey
and also in plain dark Grey. Fronts are either fly-
buttoning or to button through. Wind-strap or
gauntlet cuffs, Raglan shoulders and flap pockets are
features.
PRICES: 95/-, 105/-
OTHER PRICES: 63/-, 115/-, 126/-, 135/-, 147/-
w-


355
a
r *Sr'//-
COLD WEATHER COMING
—Get Your “Warrigal” Sweater,
You will need it when the mercury drops and cold
winds search into every corner. You will appreciate
its genial warmth and genuine comfort every day—
at week-ends particularly. The convenience of the
button-front has brought the Sweater into greater
use than ever before.
The “Warrigal” Sweater (sold only by Peapes’) is
made in Australia. It is an evenly-knitted, well-
shaped garment of reliable texture.
Coat style, buttoning to neck, Polo collar—
36in. 40in. 44in. chest.
19/6 21/- 22/0
Jacket style, V neck—
-18/0 19/0 21/-
In Navy, Grey, Brown and White.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state chest measurement.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Meltoni
IT 5 HIGH-CLASS
an
Creams
ard
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
AIL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRi
Barrack St., Sym
Russell St.. Molb
UNO LTD.
iney;
bourne.
jhkl
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES * ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
©
P/IRIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
FOR WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd..
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
SOCIETY
PENDOLD'S
WINES
“Blanc”: A.I.F. sentences of all kinds
should be reviewed by a competent
judicial tribunal, not only to right injustices
but also to prevent any further outrageous
remissions. I know a wife-beater who,
after a year’s loafing in Liverpool Camp at
his country’s expense, was pushed off. He
caused so much trouble at Durban by
assaulting a native woman that JJOOO men
had their leave cancelled. After a notorious
sand-bagging career on Salisbury Plains he
was escorted to France, where within six
months he received sentences amounting to
140 years. In any other army he would
have been shot for his first crime in France
—assaulting and robbing an old Frenchman.
In our battalion he was the cause of nine
dinkum n.c.o.’s losing stripes and pay
through breaking guard after they had gen-
erously allowed the plausible scoundrel more
freedom than he was entitled to. While a
deserter he married at least three French
girls, and, before leaving them in the lurch.
FOREWARNED.
“At the ball given by the British Minister at
Panama the Prince of Wales asked for an introduction
to Carolyn Cranberry, a sales girl, and danced four
dances with her.”
“A nd, mind yer, Araminta and Jezebel, when
we gets down to the celebrations there’s
to be no carryings-on with this ’ere
Prince."
robbed their parents of sums totalling over
5000 francs. As we went into the line we
were often jeered at by this beauty from his
cage: “You s will be pushing up daisies
when I’m back drinking beer.” Still, to
celebrate Peace, he received his freedom!
None who knew him were Surprised to learn
he had since cut a woman’s throat. What
we were surprised at was that he was out
of gaol to do it, and that a worthy Judge
gave him only a few years “on account of
his being a returned soldier.” All men who,
after good active-service records, commenced
soiling crime sheets should receive the
benefit of any doubt as to their lapse having
been caused by severe war conditions ; but,
in fairness to these men, their cases should
be reviewed by a tribunal capable of under-
standing the conditions.
* * * •
“Past Grand Burglar”: When are the
business colleges going to start classes _in
burglary and housebreaking? A fumbling
amateur broke into a
lonely Chow’s house
the other night, and
with wobbling chin
and shaking gun
pleaded for £2. (He
thought he was de-
manding, but he was
only begging.) The
disgusted Chow leaped
to his feet and
thrashed the wretched
bungler out of his
shanty. Then some
post-office thieves, at-
tracted by Webster’s
surplus, opened the
safe of a suburban
office with explosives.
As the postmaster
wasn’t stone-deaf, he
awoke, and the mud-
dlers downstairs had
to leave in a hurry
when the unguarded
official rushed out on
a balcony and shouted
for the police and a
fire brigade. The in-
telligence of a com-
munity is judged by
its crimes, and such instances as I have
quoted are liable to injure our credit abroad
and prevent the renewal of our lOU.
* * * *
“Yarrabah”: Our O.C. lost us often, but
one night, when returning from the Hejaz
railway, he broke all records. We were hope-
lessly adrift for eight hours before he recog-
nised the fact. Upon doing so, he inquired
in the usual pompous voice: “Does anyone
know where we are?” “Yes, sir,” came a
prompt reply. “On active service abroad,
sir.”
* * *
“Arthur R.”: Passing the wireless sta-
tion at the Domain (Melb.) recently I heard
a small singing noise near the wire-fence
that surrounds the grounds. On investiga-
tion I found a small, loose piece of wire that
was oscillating in response to the sending
of the operator at the station, every signal
coming out perfectly. I “mucked about” with
the wire, and the signals immediately ceased,
and try as I would I could not get a similar
effect again.
* * * *
“Jonah”: Barge numbers of British sub-
jects from Calcutta continue to arrive in
Maoriland. Many of them proceed per boot
to the country, where
they are welcomed.
They are reported to
be first-class toilers,
and, as I was in-
formed by a cocky
of my acquaintance,
“They just does what
yeh tells ’em and never
says nothink teh no-
body.” A fair num-
ber, however, remain
in the centres and
enter into competition
with the Chow fruit-
erers. In several
cases they have ad-
ministered the k.o. to
Ah Fat. They have,
moreover, secured a
toe-hold on the ancient
and honorable trade
o f bottle-gathering!
The white bottle-ohs,
after a very weak re-
sistance, muttered
“Gorblime!” and threw
in the sponge. The
success of the Hindu
in this line may be
due to his willingness to read the hand of
the lady of the house before counting and
smelling the dead marines.
“Crabtree”: Some queerer things happened
in France than novelists will dare to intro-
duce in their romances. When out of a
batch of reinforcements just arrived at night
our platoon’s share was bundled into our hut,
one of the new arrivals, in answer to the
sergeant, gave the name of Clark. Old
“Dad” Clark, who was leaning as usual over
the brasier, looked up. “Where d’you come
from?” he asked. The boy told him. “You
must be my kid Joe,” said old Clark, un-
emotionally. “My name’s Joe,” said the boy.
The old fellow merely held out his hand, and
the pair gripped, the boy rather shyly; then
the old man showed the younger how to
make himself comfortable and made a place
for him at the stove. He sat beside him say-
ing nothing, until at last he said, “Haven’t
seen you since you was nine years old.”
After the boy had replied with a few mem-
ories, there was another long silence, and
then, “How was your mother when you left?”
asked the old chap. That was all that night;
and although the two became chums the curi-
osity of the platoon about the circumstances
of their lives was never properly satisfied.
“The Oldest'lnhabitant”: The suggested
trip of the Prince to Western Victoria and
TEMPERING THE WIND TO THE
SHORN LAMB.
THE DAMB: “ What right have you to charge
such high prices? Why, confound it,
I can get better food and better cooking
in cheap restaurants!"
THE WAITER: “Yes, sir, but those cheap
places don't take so much time to get
your order ready."
his stop for a night at Glenormiston recalls
his grand-uncle’s visit to the district in the
’sixties. Edinburgh was a guest at Glen-
ormiston, too. But the most noted house at
which he camped was Chatsworth, the pro-
perty of John Moffatt, of whom the bush
"rhyme” ran during one fierce political fight:
Scabby is his name and scabby is his pocket,
And scabby is the man who would vote for Scabby
Moffatt.
This was in allusion to scab which had
broken out amongst some sheep on one of
Moffatt’s stations, and which fact had been
concealed. When Moffatt offered Chats-
worth for the use of the Duke he significantly
assured the reception committee that he
would not himself be about the place. Prior
to the arrival of H.R.H., and after his offer
had been accepted, he entered the book-store
of George Robertson and ordered some books
to be sent up. When asked what sort and
quantity, he replied, “Oh, a couple of tons
and what sort you like.” The Duke spent
some days at Chatsworth, had good hunting
and lived well; but the tons of books did
not disclose any thumb-marks.
* * * *
At a ball given at Panama the Prince of
Wales asked for an introduction to Carolyn
Cranberry, a shopgirl, and danced four times
with her.
“Jack Beer” visits his Excellency:—
Hauling myself up the steps to the office attached
to Government House with one hand and endea-
voring to chase flies with the other, I eventually
reached the verandah and timidly knocked. It is
no light thing to beard an Excellency in his den,
and it is even more hazardous when one has come
to complain about the rudeness of his own officials.
How often should i interpolate “Your Excellency”?
Would a mere “Sir,” thrown in carelessly, satisfy
the lion? No sound disturbed the torpi : atmosphere
with the exception of a Conidobian eookboy breaking
plates on behalf of his sinabada, and the palms of
my hands got, if possible, damper. Came forth to
me a tall, gaunt mar, with disappearing grey hair,
piercing eyes under shaggy brows, and a trick of
carrying his head just a shade on one side. Pro-
ducing a sodden pasteboard I stammered my desire
for an audience (could that be the right word?) and
he faded away. But he didn’t iade bo quickly,
because I had time to notice his yellow singlet had
a healthy tear in the back and the holes in his
socks would have broken a woman’s heart; it wasn’t
hard to see all this because he was innocent of coat
and shoes. More fully clothed and with a pair
of rubber goloshes on his feet (he complained that
bush sores began to hit him up after a few hundred
miles of walking), the gaunt man with the torn
yellow singlet piloted me to Government House, and
there he wormed all my troubles out of me. “Evi-
dently,” I thought, “his Ex. is too great to worry
about little Me.” But when the gaunt man arose
and spoke, per ’phone, to my official enemy, then
1 realised that I was being entertained by an angel
unawares. This was the Governor at thoughts of
whom I had been trembling 1 He gave me tea—
with concentrated cow in the _ virgin and undis-
guised tin—and sent me on my way rejoicing. But
I have not yet recovered. Perhaps I am old
fashioned, but if I have to talk to Cocked Hatf
I like to realise that I am doing it and be able
to ripple out a “Your Excellency.” I have been
denied of my sensation. And if ever I call at
Government House in Papua again I am going to
’phone Judge Murray first: I want to give him a
fair chance!
* * » *
“Ace E”: Re courts-martial. I think a
recently returned Vic. officer holds the record
for dealing it out. He and two more of his
kind in one day inflicted sentences compris-
ing in the aggregate 590 years of imprison-
ment. This officer, who had 12 months'
experience of court-martial work in com-
pany with professional soldiers, complains
bitterly about the hopeless ineptitude of the
latter when fulfilling judicial functions. It
was, by the way, only after Fritz had
knocked him well and truly for the third
time that he got the court-martial job; which
goes to show that not all lawyers over yon-
der were cold-footed gentlemen looking for
something soft.
“Dig.”: The N. S. Wales Justice Depart-
ment is establishing special homes for con-
victed returned soldiers. The Department
“is aware of the fact that in many instances
the offences committed were the direct re-
sult of wounds, shell shock and the unbal-
ancing of mind caused by the stress of war.”
So that, though they will be within the
administration of the Prisons Department,
they will really be, to a large extent, cura-
tive institutions. But the nominee of the
deceased Holman Government for the still-
vacant billet of Deputy-Controller of Prisons
was an ex-“ Jack” ; and he is understood to
be still in the running. Anyone with an
elementary knowledge of A.I.F. psychology
should know that to put a “Jack” in autho-
rity over these men is to invite trouble. And
there must be plenty of distinguished com-
batant soldiers available for the billet.
*** - *
“Rounds”: The Digger is still growing up.
Noticing a fine-looking horse harnessed to a
buggy in Bourke-street, a Carlton youngster
of seven hopped in and drove through Mel-
bourne. Steeling seemed to come as natural
to him as swimming to a young swan. It
was true joy, and he was getting on nicely
when John Hop on point duty called a halt
in Swanston-street near the Queen’s-walk.
The juvenile Jehu wanted to scoot, but was
persuaded to have some more ride till he
reached his home in Carlton. The young-
SCARED TO DEATH.
“Young Halfamo’s moustache is not grow-
ing very fast!"
“No! The other day the barber overlooked
it and nearly shaved it off!"
ster undertook to point out where he had
“found” the turnout, but it wasn’t necessary
to go further than Russell-street police-
station, "where the owner was at the moment
making a complaint. Dad was left to do the
.spanking.
(Continued on page 18.)
PLENTY AND THE PINCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The night was as black as the dearest coal
That ever came out of a mine;
But not half as black as my weary soul
When homewards like criminals swift we stole,
And the town clock sounded nine;
As sharp as the butcher’s glance was the breeze,
The moon was a soaring, expensive cheese.
The lamps in the street like oranges shone,
The sky was soft as the silk
Which with wistful eyes we had looked upon—
Perchance would have purchased in good days gone.
The moon flung a flood of milk
On the world with a measure far more free
Than you get from the chap who calls on me.
The night was a-tremble with dreams, I say,
And with thoughts to tease the brain;
There was gold and silver in every ray
Of the moon and the lamps on our homeward way.
But that couldn’t soothe our pain—
With the wife I’d been on a shopping trip,
And a bitter pill was the Friday pip!
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.
Once on a time a Prince of Hearts
A pilgrimage to foreign parts
In duty’s devoir made;
And far and near, on Seven Seas,
Dominions and dependencies
Their cheerful homage paid;
And minding well the ancient rime
Of princely tastes, at joying time
Sweet tarts before him laid.
“Real jam,” they set, and peach—a hint
Of ginger, p’raps, and there a tint
Suggesting lemon cheese ;
While places like the Barbadoes
Showed darksome tarts whose hue said sloes
The fruit had been in these.
In vain! until at Panama
The Prince disclosed the formula
By saying, “Cranberry, please.”


1
AY
W*
m
m
:•:•:•
M
iSSSSiS
i
m
X
S 3
V.'.V
W:
W:
iiWi:!
m
m
m
m
ws
m
i
wma
vXvXvXnvXvX’X'^XvXvl*
M
m
m
n
A*:
m •:
mmmmmmmM
M
x
••
KaPiiliJiu
**
v:
3liflierto
Til
w
•/
\
m
MS
®
ill
MB
BEFORE the GRADUOLA, the in-
genious patented tone controlling de-
vice in the AEOLIAN VOGALION
was invented, it was hitherto unknown
how to mechanically imitate the voice
perfectly.
The GRADUOLA achieves the seem-
ingly impossible. Like a singer’s throat,
it perfectly controls tone
Similar to the vocal chords the GRADUOLA
is elastic in nature and of great flexibility. Like
the throat it expands and contracts and can di-
minish or increase a tone slowly or rapidly and
by imperceptible degrees. The
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is the only phonograph that can accomplish this.
Even if the VOCALION did not possess
other outstanding features, this one overwhelming
attribute alone, namely, the GRADUOLA, would
be sufficient to make your choice a VOCALION.
TiWPiatidm
(omprniytyfc.
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
Please send me the AEOLIAN VOCALION
Catalog.
...Name.
Address.
384 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


Do Not Remain aClerk
Under our expert experienced guidance you will become a skilled,
qualified accountant rapidly and economically. With the knowledge you will
gain and the Degree, almost any executive position is within your reach.
Hun reds of our students have achieved “10 years’ promotion in one’’
by qualifying. Why not do the same? The expense is small —the reward
great.
BECOME A QUALIFIED ACCOUNTANT.
Don’t delay. Start now for promotion.
Write or call for our 80-page book. Explains exactly how to qualify
and what it means to you.
Enquiry costs you nothing. Get the Free Book To-day.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Building?
Custom Street.
“FIRST IN IS97— FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
• TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v.f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
"Sparc; Corp”: The succulent product of
the pig made a very substantial part of the
army ration; and 1 used to wonder how my
friend Cohenstein managed, until he in-
iormed me that a dispensation had been
granted by the heads of the Jewish faith,
permitting soldiers of their religior to eat
the forbidden brute. The same cobber, re-
turned to civil life, confided to me, the other
day. that he sometimes felt an appalling de-
sire to try another feast of pork, and then
he started to talk upon religious matters in
Ihe manner of a seeker after truth. He is
an earnest young man, who tries hard to
convince himself that he is sincere; but I
'far his mental vision is really fixed upon
t.'ie picture of a splendid porker while he
mutters, “Almost thou persuadest me to be
a Christian.”
* V * y
‘■Jonah": We were “standing to” one
dark night in TU. The latest reinforcements
had joined us that afternoon. Among them
was a bundle of nerves called Harold
Hxcept for an occasional flutter by the
Lewis-gunners there was nothing doing.
Harold, however, had the wind up, and with
every flare he would hop around like a be-
neaded fowl. At last one grizzled old sol-
dier called him over. “Here, me lad,” he
said, “take a good swig o' this,” and handed
linn a water-bottle half full of rum. Harold
look a fair nip and spluttered. “Go on '
Tear it inter yell!” urged the old Digger.
‘Ale lad” nearly emptied the bottle. Twenty
minutes later lie expressed a desire to storm
Derlin and a few minutes after collapsed.
.Some of the boys put him into a small
dugout and threw a couple of coats over
Towards dawn fritz opened out, and
his “Minnies” dislocated much scenery. Then
the stretcher-bearers got busy. I assisted
them in dragging dead and wounded Diggers
SELF-SACRIFICE.
“And will the beastly Labor party be in
control when the Prince conies?”
“Well, it tool's like it.”
“Then I think it is quite time some nice
people joined it, if only for the poor
boy’s sake.”
from the scrum. The last one we dug out
was Harold, who was still in a trance-like
state. However, I reckoned he was no good
to us, so I sent him away witli the rest.
Three months later in London I spotted our
hero in the Strand. On his cuff was a wound
stripe; on his breast the ribbon of the Mili-
tary Medal. I greeted him. shook hands,
gazed on the ribbon and said, “Congratula-
tions ! So you got over there again?” “No,”
he replied. “I got this out of that stunt. I
was the last one carried out. and they reck-
oned I deserved something.” Harold let
everybody else do the talking, and got the
M.M. and a staff job for the duration!
“Percy Pawnticket”: The efforts of the
elderly men who frequently take to the
business of collecting other people's bad
debts are often very pathetic. Naturally
they resort to the use of the blue paper and
the “Final Notice” which is supposed to,
and possibly does in
some eases, scare the
recalcitrant debtor. I
received one of these
documents recently;
but the ancient whose
tremulous handwriting
had filled it in had
evidently entertained
.some doubts about the
capacity of the docu-
ment to terrify so con-
firmed a debtor. So
he had scrawled at the
top “Immediate atten-
tion will save serious
consequences and ex-
pense” ; and at the
bottom “The expenses
of these proceedings
are often heavy:
prompt payment will
save them.” Also he
had placed the fearful
paper inside an en-
velope on which lie
had engraved “Very
urgent and import-
ant.” But it was
only • when the joke
was repeated that he
wrote on his “Final
Notice” the solemn .
warning: “Please do
treat this seriously.”
The vision of a poor
old man painfully pre-
paring that sort of
thunder for case-
hardened debtors, and
waiting hopefully for
a harvest, so appeals to me that: some clay
I know I shall pay one of these hills.
, t “Mid-'Cbanncl”: It was at the Bankruptcy
Court, and the Official Assignee had cause to
ask for the adjournment of a matter. The
Registrar, wanting to see the stale of busi-
ness, tapped on his bench and asked for the
Court Diary. The sheriff’s officer in attend-
ance was having 40 snores, and. on being
sharply awakened, was told to get the Court
Diary. Wishing, no doubt, to camouflage
his slumber, he made a prodigious effort to
look wide awake. He just caught two
words, went swiftly outside the premises,
and bawled thr.ee times “Court Diary !” Back
he came, cpiite satisfied. “No appearance
of Court Diary, your Honor,” he reported.
*** ' * .
‘‘Belltopper" : The best purely-Australian
bull I ve met in the Queensland Parliament
was made by a Labor member while speaking
in denunciation of a section of Denham’s
Election Bill of 1914. He predicted that
the measure would bring about Denham’s
downfall. “It will come back.” said he, “like
a boomerang and blow him up !”
“O Blin”: Sleek was the small inoffen-
sive husband, of a large, fast female, and
when she pushed him out of the best bed-
room he dossed humbly in the bathroom,
h inally she bolted with the star hoarder
and the pick of Sleek’s chattels, and for the
first time the little fellow felt that something
must be done to assuage his feelings. When
I met him panting up High-street there was
an unwonted light in his eye. In his hand
he carried a pile of letters all addressed to
Mrs. Sleek, and was pushing one under each
doorway with vicious emphasis. “She thinks
she si cunnin’, but she isn’t going to escape
me this time, ’ he explained. “I was told
she s livin’ with him somewhere in this
street, and. take it from me, she’s goin’ to
know what I think of her.”
* * * *
. A general practitioner discovers an oppo-
sition shop :
Ta the old days the Chinese medical specialists in
Sidney, such as On Lee, either haunted back-streets,
where they put up their cabalistic signboards, or,
at best, aspired to the comparative seclusion of
W.vnyard Square and its environs. A few of the
less ambitious were content with the purlieus of
Coulburn or Devonshire street, or moved out to
Leorge-street West. Not one of the “profession”
was pachydermatous enough to dream of approaching
the sacred precincts of Macquarie-street—that august
stronghold of the elite of the medical profession.
Now all has changed, and the most up-to-date and
elaborate electric sign, large golden letters gleaming
against a blood-red background, and lighting up the
whole street, is to be found only a few paces from
Wyoming and Macquarie Chambers, the homes of
MacCormick and Timing and other leaders of the
profession. The color scheme of the interior is dark
blue and white. Dark-blue curtains and the soft
sheen of light crepe-de-Chine curtains on the •
bookshelf prove that the wily Chink, is alive to the
necessity of giving the apartment the right profes-
sional atmosphere. It is the poor, hopeless people
"'ho are suffering from inoperable cancer and who
are in the last stages of phthisis that receive the
tender ministrations of these quacks. Ah Goon gets
his money down and promises a cure, and the victims
are willing to drink nauseous compounds by the
gallon provided they see a ray of hope. I "know
nothing of this “institute’’ ; but I do know that
other Chinese “herbalists” are unconscionable rogues,
and that there should be a law to keep them from
battening on the unfortunate poor.
A PEACE CONFERENCE.
"You gotta get o[?] this habit of stickin' for
the Just word!"
“I don’t want the last word. But how can
I tell when you haven’t got anything
else to say?"
“('ovale”: “Murkah” says (B. 25/3/'2O)
that Marconi and his co. have done little
towards improving wireless. The facts don’t
support that statement. Mar-
coni spent years of his life and
practically all his private for-
tune in his early endeavors. His
•’four sevens" patent of 11)00
(synchronising of circuits) was.
and still is, the master patent
of wireless. And instead of
retarding progress the co.
which he founded still spends
vast sums on experimental
work in its laboratories at
Chelmsford (Eng.). The Bel-
lini-Tosi direction finder was
only a partial success until
Marconi and his experts got to
work in conjunction with the
inventor. To-day the Marconi-
Bellini-Tosi direction-finder is
being made a standard fitting
on deep-sea ships. Its possibili-
ties are unlimited. The audion
detector, which “Murkah”
credits the Yanks with, is no-
thing but a glorified Fleming
valve, the patents of which be-
long to the Marconi co. ; and
the co.’s expert, H. J. Round,
has so successfully developed
the idea that wireless tele-
phony is now commercially practicable, the
valve being used for transmission as well
as reception. These are only a few of
dozens of cases that could be quoted.
* * * *
“Araminta” : There is a reviving demand
for kid gloves, owing to the approaching
winter boom in jazzing and hunt-the-prince.
When the war was well established kid
gloves had a slump so dreadful that thousands
of boxes of “elbow” lengths were eut down
by warehousemen to make short sorts of
them, the long tops being sent to foreign
relief committees. Cotton and silk gloves
promptly went up to unheard-of prices; and
now, with silk and cotton street gloves
dearer than ever, the price of suedes is
quickly moving forward again. Isn’t it
possible for us to do for ourselves what the
U.S. and other countries have for so long
been doing for us, and for themselves as
well? At least one Aussie firm makes cot-
ton gloves; but the retail price doesn’t per-
mit them to compete with the imported goods.
It would be interesting to learn what the
local maker gets for these gloves, as com-
pared with the price paid to the U.S. for
goods of the .same description. lam ready
to bet my week's egg-money that the Aus-
tralian middleman demands a much bigger
whack from the Australian maker than he
can get from the glove-supplier overseas.
“Mary Scott”: Writing letters is the only
luxury 1 allow myself, and even at that one
is compelled to halt when, after sending
volumes to a correspondent, in reply one re-
ceives the old. stupid, stereotyped, ‘‘l take
up my pen with pleasure to answer your
welcome letter which I received six months
ago. No more news at present. Love and
kisses. Write soon. Good-bye, dear.”
That is about the beginning and end of the
ordinary woman’s letter to-day. I blame
the Education Departments—that of Maori-
land in particular. It is now the
end of March. My eldest girl has not
had one lesson in grammar and only two in
composition since the school reopened this
year. She is in Standard IV, and though
she is thrown a hundred scraps of know-
ledge, the system evidently thinks that gram-
mar and composition are of no importance.
Though we hungrily devour all manner of
badly-written, mis-spelt, murdered English,
how much more appreciable that correspond
ence would be had the author been taught
the art of letter-writing! In business I'm
told it is the same: not one boy in a dozen
of those who leave our schools, their •’educa-
tion” completed, knows how to express him-
self even intelligibly.
“Dropped Anchor”: The Thermopylae’s
run of (JO days from London to Melbourne,
pilot to pilot, in 1860, is usually reckoned
the slickest sailing-ship passage from the
United Kingdom to Australia. But there is
little, if anything, to choose between it and
the Ben Voirlich’s run of Cl days from
Liverpool to Melbourne, dock to dock, in
1877. The Therinopyho showed her consist-
ency by making a 61-day run from Lon-
don to Melbourne in 1870, but the Marco
Polo, a Yankee-built wooden craft, did as
well as that in 1861. The best voyage from
Australia to the U.K., according to Basil
Lubbock, was the Lightning’s 63 days from
Melbourne to Liverpool iri 1853. The
Heather Bell was a day slower over the same
run in 1856. The Lightning, American-
built but belonging to the Black Bull Aus-
tralian line, is credited with the world’s
record day’s run under sail, made on March
1. 1854, on her maiden voyage. She was
running from Boston to Liverpool and cut
out 436 miles in the 24 hours. Incidentally
she carried away the foretop sail and lost
the jib. But all the smart sailing passages
don’t belong to the 'fifties and ’sixties; in
1898 the Drumalis ran from Cape Town to
Newcastle (N.S.W.) in 14 days.
IN DOUBT.
“You are to be my partner, I believe! Are
you in good form?”
“Bai Jove, I really don't know. Y’ see, I’ve
never played the — cr—bally game be-
fore.”
THOUGH DISTANCE DIVIDES US.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
-My spirit can no longer sin:'.
Nov can my wpav.v heart he gay.
For brooding o'er the little thing
That was so lately reft away.
hong years we'd lived in concord .sweet.
And then, ah me! the awful change!
The piercing pang, the sudden heat,
The rift that could so soon estrange!
Ah me! Ah me! the bitter pain!
And oh, the cost! (for it was dear) ;
The Stoic brow I could not feign
Parting with what was once so near.
On earth FU never meet it more;
And yet, across Death’s darkling sea,
! know that on the further shore
My lost appendix waits for me.
SYD. C.
HER WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When I would fling- my work aside
And flirt with her, my lovely Lizzie,
To some dashed household job she’s tied.
“Don’t interrupt me, dear. I’m busy.”
But when I try to concentrate
On some deep problem erf the nation
And keep a watch on Thought’s front gate,
That is her night for conversation.
She brings her sewing in and talks
Till her poor harried slave is dizzy.
Then suddenly to bed she' stalks.
“Good-night. Don’t work too hard.” That's Lizzie.
x.s.w.
A. W. ENIBB.


Join the National Roads Association (N.S.W.).
■
m
The Studebaker “Light Four
Meets Australian Requirements Well
Beautiful indesign
‘Thoroughly modem
„Mechanically right
PROBABLY no car is designed
and produced with a keener
regard for Australian condi-
tions than the Studebaker “Light Four.
This fact explains, largely, its remark-
able success in this field. It explains
not only the astonishing service of the
1920 Studebaker “Light Four,’’ but
also the uniformly high standard of
that service.
Its grace and harmony of line fit it
splendidly for the city boulevard. Its
sturdiness and sound construction equip
it for the racket and stress of the country
highway.
The Studebaker “Light Four”
embodies a rare combination of
design, balance and mechanical
perfection. It is the car that
gives universal satisfaction.
THESTUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis, King William Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams Limited.
Christchurch, Tima*u,
Palmerston North, Wanganui.
jnhkl


mm
SLICE
p\£M
mwm
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready- Rubbed.
EDGEWORTH
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Qua)'.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosinan.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3/2 guineas per week.
Tel. \ 3001, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
~ WME«
The TOP-NOTCH’Scotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Mulga”: Several years ago large fencing
jobs were going on all over Western Q., and some men
became so expert that they didn’t waste an inch in
sinking a post-hole. The best hand I knew was
“Bluey” Watson, who in mulga, pine or spinifex
country would tally 200 every day. His highest
total was 227. In black soil, where good sinkers
could manage only 60 or 60, “Bluey” would reach
80 and over. At that time the rate for sinking was
i 1 a hundred. Now, what's the highest number of
round posts cut by a toiler in a day ? I’ll give a
start with Larry Patterson, who averaged 150 mulga
posts, his highest tally being 181. The rate was 16s.
a hundred.
* * * ■*
“Toby C.’V: I have never seen frogs jump-
ing into fire, except in single file, with an interval
of years between suicides, but I have noticed them in
close proximity to a hive busily engaged catching
bees. This performance is worth watching; the
frog seldom misses its leap at anything up to 2ft.,
and I saw one particularly-active gymnast spring
sft. lOin. to capture an extra-juicy bee. He could
have knocked seven bells out of Mark Twain’s cele-
brated friend.
“Bynoe”: I nominate the Bynoe as the
most interesting and treacherous river in Australia.
For the information of Circular Quay whalers, the
Bynoe junctions with the Flinders about 50 miles
from the sea and empties into the Gulf of Carpen-
taria. The tides are irregular, usually one in 24
hours, but at times there are none for a couple of
days, and then a couple in succession. When the
wind is in the right direction it blows the water out
of the river. The crossings are sandy, and shift
with the tides, which makes them dangerous. If
you miss quicksand you still stand a chance of meet-
ing a shark or being grabbed by a crocodile, and
in addition you have these lesser fry to deal with:
stingarees, shakes, sword-fish, catfish the size of
dugong, and the Portuguese man-of-war. The fur-
thest-north camp of the Burke and Wills expedition
was made on the bank of the Little Bynoe.
* * * *
“Wai-hoi”: Old Jim Burns of Wolfram
Camp (N.T.) was a rough old sort who could neither
read nor write. Some of his pals on the mine
bought him a copy-book and used to spend hours
trying to teach him the alphabet. Jim laboriously
used to write out easy sentences, commenting on
them as he went along. One night he spelt out:
“T-h-e f-o-x a-t-e t-h-e g-o-o-s-e,” and then, much
relieved, murmured: “Anyway, that ’s settled.”
“Silas Snell” : Judging by various descrip-
tions, seemingly faithful, I gather that the American
negro in the throes of a harrowing religious revival
is likely to behave almost precisely as did the
ecstatic Cornish Methodists of my early youth at
Waddy. This incident, true in fact and detail, might
easily have been written of a coon carnival of grace
and glory. Brother Best was in hot disagreement
with Tilly Mills, the daughter of a neighbor, and
having to lead in prayer on the Sun-
day after his quarrel, seized the
opportunity to to get even. He
prayed for Tilly, prayed for her body
and her soul, prayed noisily, but at
the same time making it very clear
he had small hope of bringing regen-
eration to so hardened and invete-
rate a sinner. Tilly, understanding
perfectly, knelt in her place, very pale,
very still. “O Gwad-ah, be keerful
of that girl!” wailed Brother Best.
“Keep Thoo Thy eye on her. She
do need it. O Gwad-ah, if Thoo
thinkst Thoo wilt break she with a
simple judgment, Thoo dost not know
she ’swell as Thy servant. O Loord,
have mercy on Tilly Mills! Chasten
her, O Loord, that she be brought
to Thy feetstool. Try her with Thy
fires, O Gwad-ah, so she may see
Thy grace. Have mercy on Tilly
Mills!”- All the congregation, led by
Brother Veal, the superintendent,
chipped in: “0 Gwad-ah, have mercy
—have mercy on Tilly Mills f” A
sudden silence, a sudden wonder.
Tilly Mills was on her feet facing
Brother Best where he knelt with
upthrown face. She delivered him
one terrific slap on the cheek with
her right; she slashed him again with
her left. The silence was broken by
the shrill voice of Brother Veal.
“And 0 Gwad-ah, have mercy on Brother Best!”
Then, as Tilly swung in fiercer slaps, the
whole congregation: “O Gwad-ah, mercy for
Brother Best!” Tilly delivered one kick to her
overthrown enemy, and marched out, as the super-
intendent, with a happy inspiration, started the
choir on hymn one nought foor.
“Bouragi”: “Miranda” asks if “the
saurian of the fresh-water holes” in N.Q. is identical
with the one found in salt-water arms of the Gulf.
He may or may not be, for, though the crocodile
is found both in fresh and salt water, the gavial,
which is evidently what “M.” classes as an “alli-
gator,” is found only in the fresh*water streams and
lagoons. Naturalists class the gavial as a species of
crocodile, though he is a fish-eater only and harm-
less to man. Alligators are not found in Australia,
the Americas and a portion of China being their
habitat. The difference between them and the croco-
diles is, roughly, that in the alligator the feet are
not fully webbed, and the lower canine teeth fit into
a pit. in the upper jaw, instead of into a groove, as
with our crocodiles.
“I Say’: “Mrs. Lance Rawson” (B.
11/3/ J 2O), writing of seal) in sheep, says: “The one
and only remedy known in those days [the ’sixties]
was boiling down.” A\. A. Brodribb, manager at
Maneroo, in his reminiscences, wrote that in ’45 they
were treating scab effectively by scarifying, tobacco-
water bath and scraping. For catarrh the only
remedy was the boiling-down pot. He relates that
Henry O’Brien, of Yass (N.S.W.), was the first to
boil down sheep for the tallow. This was about 1843.
THE PITFALL.
EGRERT (reading): “’ Eve's a sad case; a
bloke died in ’is bath.”
MERVYN : “Poor cow! Musta walked in is
sleep!”
“F. A. Nevill”: I was aboard the
schooner Kate Kearney when the remains of Mrs.
Watson and her child, victims of that grimmest of
tragedies, were found on No. 5 Hovvick Island (Q.).
Watson and a man named Fuller had a bSche-de-mer
plant on Lizard Islamd, about 40 miles north of
Oooktown. In 18S1 the two went prospecting for
fish further north, leaving Mrs. Watson and child,
with two Chinamen, but without a boat, on Lizard
Island. Blacks from the mainland attacked the
Lizard party, killed one Chinaman and put seven
spears into the other. Mrs. Watson succeeded in
keeping the abos. away from the house, and when they
recrossed to the mainland for reinforcements she,
with her child and the wounded Chinese, left the
island in half a tank, and in this they travelled 60
miles. They drifted in a N.-W. direction, and
eventually stranded on No. 5 of the Howick Group,
where they died of thirst. The remains of the woman
and 'child were found lying in the tank, the child
across its mother’s right arm, in the hand of which
was a loaded revolver. The Chinaman’s remains,
bleached white, were lying about 25 yards from the
tank.
“Wessel”: Some of the old hands at Dar-
win are firm believers that Black Brother had some
system of telegraphy. Before wireless came in the
white man had no means of finding out how steamers
were getting along after they left Thursday Island
for Darwin. But they say that the local abos. used
to know a day or two beforehand when a steamer
would arrive. The most commonly-held opinion
seems to be that it was done by smoke signals. One
difficulty about some of the more sensational yarns
regarding black “bush telegraphy” is that they
make blackfellows speaking different languages com-
municate thus with each other. But that does not
arise in this case, for the blackfellows on the coast
for a long way east of Darwin had a common
language in the Macassar tongue which they had
learnt from the Malavs.
* * * *
“Belmont”: How is this for the cham-
pion sundowner? I met him at Kanowna in ’96.
He had “led a water-bag” from the Diamantina
River (N.Q.) to Port Lincoln (S.A.), and from
there to Coolgardie. He didn’t complain about the
saunter, but growled luridly because he had to
desert Matilda when going round the Bight. A
mate who started with him went mad and com-
mitted suicide while on the dry stretch between
Lucia and Lindsay’s Turn-off.
“Yarrum”: This glib talk of fortunes being
made at rabbit-trapping makes me fatigued. Tom
King, of Wimbledon, the best trapper in those parts,
working with a brother and sister, almost equally
skilled—and mother somethimes took a hand, too—
averaged, for 1919, barely £l2 a week; and these
operators were on their lonely on 18,000 acres of
good country.
“Dido”: Rheumatism had nipped Gough
by the heel, and the man in the little lone bark hut
among the timber under the hill gave him the over-
whelming truth —Red Bonnet was still 11 miles off.
Gough sat straight down on the ground, and tried
to take the lame member to his breast. “I don’
min' you stay in’ along o' me fer a spell if you care
to, mate,” said the rude dweller on the outskirts.
Gough jumped at Dawson’s offer, and 12 o’clock
found him sleeping the sleep of the dead-beat on a
Wagga vug before the hut Are.
He was awakened by a voice. It
was a gentle, small voice, with
a girlish sweetness, and it was
calling: “Ned, Ned, let me in,
Ned!” There came an answer-
ing growl from Dawson’s bunk.
The latch was shaken, and the
voice wont on: “Let me in, Ned!
I’ve been sleeping in that hollow
log.” The touching appeal in
the tone almost moved Gough to
tears. “Well, you can get to the
Devil outer this,” snorted Daw-
son ; “yer not cornin’ in.”
“Ned, just this once; just trust
me this once!” Not if I know
it !” retorted Dawson. “Please,
Ned—please, please!” Gough had
never heard anything so pitiful.
He summed Dawson up as a dog.
True, the man had been very
decent 'tov-.him, an impecunious
cripple, but no man who had not
a heart of granite could resist the
soul-searching appeal of that
sweet, gentle voice. “See here,
mate, am I in the way?” Gough
asked. “I could sleep very well
in the open.” “You stay where
you are,” retorted Dawson. “You
don’t open that door this night.”
Then came the soft anguish of
the woman’s voice again. Daw-
son sat up in his bunk, and
roared: “You don’t come in
here!” There was silence for a
few minutes, and then again:
“Ned, Ned 1 ! Dear one, can yon
hear me? I’ve set the
hut on fire!” Smoke was already
pouring in through the cracks.
Clough drugged Dawson from his bed. They tore
open the door, and found a wall of flaming boughs
barring the way. Sitting in his burnt shirt, liber-
ally singed all over, watching the flaming hut, Gough
concluded that perhaps Dawson’s attitude towards
the lady with the gentle voice was not wholly unjus-
tifiable.
“Devilfish” : Webster—the one who made
the dictionary, not the surplus—didn’t venture to
tell us where the dugong got its name, beyond com-
paring it with the Malayan “duyong.” But there’s
an interesting note iin an ancient report of the Royal
Asiatic Society. “In 1828, Dr. Tytler, who had
obtained four skeletons of the sea-pig at the old
Raffles Bay (N.T.) settlement on his voyage from
Sydney to Calcutta, read a paper on them before
that society. He guessed that the dugong was the
same as the Dagon of the Philistines, pointing out
that Dagon had the head of a graminivorous animal
and the tail of a fish.
A LIBEL.
COWMAN : “That bloke's paintin' pictures for
a Sydney exhibition. But 'e don't know
much—'c painted my poley coin and put
horns on 'er."
BULLMAN : “ 'Struth! The blanky idiot!
The Sydney people won't reckernise 'er."
“Harvib” : The *ram which turned the
Taranaki (M.L.) steelyards at 1461 b. (B. 25/3/’2O)
was a bantam compared with a 2071 b. dressed wether
butchered at Christchurch (M.L.) abattoirs in 1914.
I saw a pen of wethers auctioned at Christchurch in
1906 which averaged (butchers’ weight) 16841 b.
(Continued on page 22.)
A HYMENOPTER-LOORAL LAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The souls of sober, quiet people, untinctuml by
philosophy, come to life as bees arid ants.” Plato.
Hear Plato, from the dim 8.c.,
Descanting on the thrilling topic
Of what the hidden Fates decree
For quiet folk, unphilosophie;
Such seemly citizens as scorn
To he with beer or bullion bloated,
And may be trusted to adorn
The realm to which they 11 be promoted.
No lawless coot who heats his. wife
Or wildly splashes up his money
May hope to spend his future life
A-filling- little cells with honey ;
And no disgusting reprobate
IVho tipples out of casks and kegs
May ever hope, in any state.
To walk upon three pairs of legs.
Hut oh, what bliss to be a bee!
Who does not feel his spirit pant
With holy joy to think that he
Some happy day may be an ant!
Shall even 1 be one of these
When Death my little string shall sever?
Or is it one of Fate’s decrees
That bookworms shall be worms for ever ?
Hut why with thoughts like the above
Do 1 my fountain-pen encumber ?
Since first I met with thee, my love,
I think but in the plural number.
Then rather we may p’raps be deemed
Fit for the change by, say, October,
For you are quiet and esteemed,
And I, my love, am often sober.
And would you love me still? Throughout
These almost-too-Platonic changes?
When we were scurrying about
A clay-nest somewhere in the ranges?
With you I’d boldly face the dim !ir
Entomological hereafter,
Go tunnelling- the mud with vim
Or fill the little cells with laughter.
FULL RESTITUTION.
“Give us the ball lack. Mister, and we’ll
make the bloke wot smashed yer winder
retire!”
But oh, what cataclysmic woe,
And how impossible to stem it.
If you amongst the bees should go
While I became a little emmet!
Upon what blossom could we meet
To have a bit of lunch together
And make, with feelers or with feet,
A few remarks about the weather?
And even if we fixed it thus,
No doubt some human creature solemn
Would spy us out and make a fuss
About us in the abo. column;
So that, consid’ring things again,
When we cast off this fleshy fetter
i really think, dear, that the plain,
Old-fashioned Hell will suit us better.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Australia’s Foremost Authors
are represented in the
"Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
A uniform series of novels written by Australians, illustrated
ty Australian artists, printed in Australia, for Australians.
All One Price: 1/3 each (1/4* posted).
ALL BOOKSELLERS & BOOKSTALLS, or DIRECT FROM THE PUBLISHERS
Write for New Complete Catalogue (free) of over 100 novels
catering for every taste.
BUY AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
“Bookstall” Novels are easily the best value obtainable.
ADVENTURE
BULLY HAYES,
By LOUIS BECKE.
RED MOUNTAIN,
By JACK McLaren.
WHITE SAVAGE SIMON,
By BEATRICE GRIMSHAW.
SOUTH SEA SHIPMATES,
By A. J. BARRY.
HISTORICAL:
SALLY: THE TALE OF A CURRENCY LASS,
By «T. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,
By ROY BRIDGES.
HUMOR:
ALADDIN AND THE BOSS COCKY,
B j RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S great series of humorous books.
SPORTING:
THE DOINGS OF DAVE,
By CON DREW.
WOLAROPS CUP,
By AMBROSE PRATT.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S popular sporting novels.
NOVELS OF THE BUSH:
nj,lnm
THE CALLING VOICE,
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
BASE BRANDS,
By H. M. SOMER.
STEELE RUDD’S Famous Selection Stories.
MURDER MYSTERY:
MOUNT MARUNGA MYSTERY,
By HARRISON OWEN.
MYSTERY OF THE BOXING CONTEST,
By BERT JAMES.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY,
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BPTTERLAC
is
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF’S (Pasteur Institute) ASTOUND-
ING DISCOVERY for the Use of Specially Prepared BUTTER-
MILK for the Treatment of—
NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION,
INSOMNIA,
KIDNEY and LIVER
DERANGEMENTS,
RHEUMATISM, and
All Disorders arising from GASTRIC and INTESTINAL
CONDITIONS.
Remember—BUTTERLAC is a Pure, Powdered, Specially-prepared
Buttermilk Preparation containing the Ideal Lactic Bacillus.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults, Children and Infants.
Btitterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4 6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO.,
Adelaide.
THE LEVIATHAN Ready-to-wear
Riding Breeches and Trousers
Tailored from Specially-Seledled Materia s.
RIDING BREECHES.—In
hard-wearing Garbinette,
in olive or khaki shades;
self strapped, laced at
knees. expertly cut;
splendid service assured;
ready-to-wear.
Sizes 3 to 6...
15/6
RIDING BREECHES.—
Mounted Service Style,
Tailored in Khaki Mill-
tary Twist.
Sizes Bto 7 .
3 01-
JUDHPORE RIDING
TROUSERS.—In hard-
wearing serviceable khaki
Drill; a useful style, com-
bining the design of rid-
ing trousers and riding
breeches, thus dispensing
with the use of leggings;
well tailored, with cross
pockets and belt loops;
ready-to-wear.
Sizes 3 to 7...
21/-
In Garbicord .... 15/6
WORKING TROUSERS
In splendid wear-resist-
ing Khaki Drills. Suit-
able for riding and
general rough work; out
with ample seats for
saddle use; well-made
and finished, read,v-to-
wear.
All sizes
hjkhjk
When ordering, please give
these measurements — Heigh-.,
Waist (over Trousers), and
Inside Leg.
TAILORED-
TO-ORDER.
Leviathan Tailored-to-order Riding
Breeches and Trousers are
Unequalled for Service.
s%»S
RIDING
BREECHES,
As illustration,
per pair.
JUDHPOIIE
TROUSERS
(No Leggings
required I.
As illustration,
per pair.
U’DTNG
TROUSERS,
per pa r.
In Khaki Drill 35/- 35/- 25/-
(Self Strappings. 5/- extra; Large Buckskin Strappings. 20/- extra.)
In Whipcord 55/- 55/- 45/-
(Self Strappings, 7/0 extra; Large Buckskin Strappings, 20/- extra.)
Hi
WRITE FOR PATTERNS, Self-measure-
ment Chart and, Tape.
We Pay Carriage.
Order by Post.
hEVIATMAN
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEASE NOTE- WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
MAXWELL TRUCKS.
USERS are convinced that the Maxwell
30cwt. Truck will do more varied work,
better work, harder work more often
and under more unfavorable conditions than any
other motor truck of similar price and capacity.
It is designed to do the heaviest hauling, to withstand the
hardest mauling, and it weighs only 2400 pounds.
For speed and endurance the Maxwell Truck has no
competitor at the price.
It answers every average purpose and costs less to own and
operate. Magneto, Worm Drive, 10 foot loading space, Electric
Lights and Generator.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address
‘Liandum —Neiu York.’'
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


Sterling' fads
concerning'
©
o
ft
$
:•••
%
e
6
TRADE MARK.
METAL CEILINGS
On Economic and Artistic Points WUNDERLICH STAMPED STEEL is now employed
tor every class of Interior Decoration
BECAUSE of its DURABILITY, ADAPTABILITY, SIMPLICITY in FIXING, Safety
from r IKE and non-harborage of DIRT or MICROBES.
SHOWROOMS:—Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart, Launceston.
CATALOGUES POST FREE ON REQUEST FROM MANUFACTURERS,
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
The Coiling People,
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS:
POSTAL D 3ESS
Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
“Baree”: This is how the Northern Ter-
ritory nigger explained it to me:—
Spose my see blackfellow, him no more country-
man longa me, 1 creep up quietfellow, all same
sne-nake. Byumbye jump longa him head. My
tfcttuin old-feller glass, old-feller knife, anything
sharp-teller. My cuttum longa bingy, takem out
gut, cuttum off tat, cuttum off two-feller kidney, eat
leidney quick-feller. No more eooknm, you savvy,
bpose him new fellow, him good feller medicine.
Cookum no good. Then my puttum back gut, fill
up bmgy longa plenty grass, tie up long.feller
string intestines | longa grass, two, three time, put-
turn all back straight-feller; tie up cut longa rag,
longa paperbark, go walk-about, look out ’nothor-
one blackfeller. Might be that blackfeller live longa
one week, might be him die two three day. One
time my bin cuttum up boy, takem out fat, eatum
only no more bin catchum kidney. P’liceman bin
f?™! < ? n ’ , ffuxtkfeller I bin run away. P’liceman
b n lookout longa boy, him get all right. ’Spose my
bin eatum kidney, him die.”
* * #
“Leo Lear”: There seems to be a lot of
misconception about ground .parrots. The true gp
(Pezoporus terrestria ) is a resident of Southern Aus-
tralia, and is a very rare bird, though you -can tip
your lid to him occasionally in the remote corners of
Gippsland. Another ground resident of the family is
the inland night parrot, also very rare. Neither of
these birds can climb or perch. The bird that natural-
ist Matthews referred to as being extinct is the
Queensland beautiful parrakeet (Psephotus pulcher-
rimus). He was in error. Ten years ago I saw specimens
on the Central Bananaland coast. This parrakeet
builds in a wliite-ants’ nest on the ground, scooping
out a hole for itself. One other ground-nesting parrot
is the rock parrot of the islands in the Australian
Bight.
HONORS EASY.
PARSON : “I hear your son’s doing very well
at Bidgee-Bidgee?”
WAYBACK : “ 'Envy? Oh, yairs, ’Enery’s
bin mayor five times rminin' now. ’E’s
got the biggest store in the district; ’e’s
the postmaster, and 'e’s on the hospital
committee — nex' year Vs startin’ a
motor-garage."
PASON : “Why, he seems to have left
nothing for anybody else!"
WAYBACK : "Oh, I dunno. Ever ’card of
Charlie Hutchin? Well ’e’s pleeceman up
there."
“Bouragi”: “Bisco” (B. 18/3/’2O),
writing of the Melanesian Mission at Norfolk Island,
mentions the spearing of the mission’s first bishop.
This wickedness took place at Bloody Bay, on Santa
Cruz, north of the New' Hebrides. Though the
islanders have always had a bad reputation, Bishop
Patteson’s death was probably the outcome of a typical
bit of old-style “blaekbirding.” The Mission had
RANK.
SICK BILLJIN: "I’m not feeling too good, doctor."
IRRITABLE CAMP DOCTOR (who likes his military rank recognised ) : “ There? are no
doctors here.”
SICK BILLJIM ( getting it in) : “Beg pardon sir, I oughter ha' known—my cobbers
warned me about that.”
begun to get a good name thereabout, and the
skipper of a Fijian labor schooner saw a chance to
use that fact in his business. Putting on a white
night-gown over his clothes, he went ashore and
held a “service.” Later he invited a number of
boys to another service on board the vessel. When
he had got them down below, where some of his
crew were singing hymns, he clapped on his hatches
and cleared for Fiji. Some months later Patteson
landed to conduct a genuine mission and, with
several of his men, was either shot down with che
poisoned arrows in favor thereabout or clubbed to
death. Commodore “Tommy” Goodenough landed
with a naval force, and he, too, and several seamen
were wounded by arrows; Goodenough died of blood-
poisoning.
* * * *
“R.C.M.”: “Leo Lear” (B. 16/4/’l4),
clamoring for “the original cove who set out in
black and white that Australian birds were a harsh,
mournful, songless lot,” mentioned P. Cunningham
and asked for the date of his work. I was reading
Cunningham's book in London in June, 1914, and
made out an answer for “Leo Lear.” Then William
llohenzol lern cut loose and all my papers were packed
up until the other day when I came across these
notes. Peter Cunningham was a naval surgeon in
the ’twenties, who made several voyages to N. S.
AVales in charge of convict ships. ‘ He wrote his
experiences in letters, and in 1827 published them
in two volumes called “Two Years in N.S.W.” The
quotations “Leo Lear” gives are on pages 230-31 of
vol. 1. Cunningham also writes that the lark is “a
wretched parody” of the English lark, and he rails
at the loud discordant noise of the laughing jack-
ass or settler’s clock.” I wonder if he ever heard a
bcllbiid or a magpie in the early morning?
“Roma”: Can any Abo. vet. say definitely
whether permitting the hay-bands to go into the chaff
has any ill-effects on horses? In 1911 an inspector
came out to a Werribee (Vic.) chaff-mill and snorted
about this practice, but, as anyone in the business
knows, the bands are nearly always let go with
the sheaf. The same cocky who cheerfully watches
the bands go through for other people’s horses will
carefully see that they come out of the ton or two
he keeps for his own nags. On an average it takes
1- to 14 sheaves, which means about 22ft. of wirv
twine, to make a bag of chaff. It seems to me that
this mixed diet would lead to stomach and other
troubles; but I would like to hear from the experts.
* * *
eronal”: Any Abo. been wasp-stung?
There are several Australian breeds that are most
mcious. Murrell, in his treatise on poisons, mentions
a case of a young girl, stung by a British'wasp, who
ned in about 15 minutes, although ammonia and
other remedies were promptly employed. I have been
stung by the metallic-blue wingless wasp known as
soldier-ant,” but although this aggressive ineect
stings far more severely than a honey-bee no poisonous
effects followed.
“X Cart”: I have recently been watching
a black-and-gold-striped hornet at work. This toiler
has built a row of 24 cottages in six days, laid an
egg in each and furnished each structure with from
six to seven caterpillars. She is now doing the
outside plastering and decorating. She only knocks
off to sleep and -to go for the milk.
“Te Whare”: The so-called Californian-
or cabbage-thistle, with the large green spiky leaves
variegated with white, was, it is said, introduced
into Australia by horses imported from Valparaiso.
The plant is an annual, and if not allowed to seed
may be easily eradicated. On the rich black-soil
flats of Monaro (N.S.W.) this weed grows to about
10ft. in height, and crowns itself with purple, per-
fumed blossoms, shaped like the sunflower. Bronze-
wing pigeons, quail, rosella and lory parrots gorge
themselves to fatness on the nutty, nutritious seeds,
and a pie of rosellas so fattened is not far behind
quail. Tim cabbage-thistle, while green, is relished
by live stock, and is a fodder stand-by in dry
seasons. Travelling cattle and sheep, however, will
“blow” on a diet of this thistle if it is too young.
*• * # *
“Laneewood”: “Buzz” (B. 11/3/ ! 20) asks
how far inland -seagulls have
been found. During the big floods
in 1900 a gull appeared on Mt.
Enniskillen station, Central Queens-
land, 357 miles from the coast.
It took up its abode on one of the
dams and remained for many
months. Then there came a
dry spell and the stranger disap-
peared. At various times since
then, on wild, stormy nights,
when the clouds were driving in
from the east, I have heard the
cry of a gull evidently being
driven inland. Several years ago
when heavy weather was preva-
lent in the interior, a gull was
shot at and wounded at Blackall,
in the same district, 400 miles
from the coast, and, as it was
secured and caged, there could
be no mistake as to its identity.
Another bird seen in the central
districts during monsoonal
weather is the _sp>ne-tailed swift,
which is not seen inland at other
times. A faint twitter from
high up above denotes the bird’s
arrival, and with extraordinary
speed it circles about, its long
wings and short body giving it a crescent-shaped
appearance. They come in bands, and in a few
moments are gone. Their speed on the wing is
almost incredible.
“Jim Carew”: I enter these as the five
most popular and general bush superstitions i—
(1) Snakes don’t die until sunset.
„ is always the night shift at a mine which
finds the rich patches of the reef.
(3) A horse with three white feet can’t win a
race.
(4) Cattle on camps see ghosts.
(5) To find a corpse in the bush is a sure sign
that the finder will die a violent death.
“Otven Meredith”: One of a party near
Darwin was stumped. He was reduced to the last
threepence. So he decided to sample the “whisky”
sold by the local abos. at one shilling a bottle
Next I saw of him he was carrying the grog home
followed by an ancient and furious lubra holdin"
the traybit between her grimy fingers and crying':
“This one too muehee all same plurry piccaninny
shillin’!”
* * * *
“Barcoo”: Talking about Dan Hassett,
of whip-manipulating fame, the man who influenced
him in specialising in the art was Adam Hogg, of
Strathbogie, who sometime in the ’eighties was the
recognised best amateur whip-handler of Victoria.
Some of Hogg’s tricks were snuffing a lighted candle
14ft. away; snapping a threepenny-piece out of his
left-hand finger and thumb, held straight out, with
the 14ft. whip; and chopping a match from between
the lips of a sometimes not-too-willing assistant
standing 12ft. away. This last was the crowning
feat, and was always neatly performed.
* * #
“Albatross”; A plantation manager from
New Ireland, South Seas, vouches for this. One of the
native mission-trained boys woke him up or.e night
and exclaimed, excitedly: “Master, come quick time!
Lamp belong Jesus Christ he go die finis.” It was
in 1917 and the moon was in total eclipse.
“Bongo”: Many strange customs exist
among the abos. of Northern Australia, but the
Kakadu tribe can just about claim the biscuit for
this one. A grown male member of the clan must
not, in any circumstances, speak to his younger
sisters. The maids are ordered to avoid him as much
as possible. If he comes upon them by accident,
and they don’t fly, he is justified in striking them.
He generally does so. He may hold speech with
his elder sisters, but the distance separating them
must be at least 30 yards. Mother-in-law is abso-
lutely taboo. Son-in-law may not even look at her
or allow her to do anything for him, but if he sees
her in the far-distance he may call to her.
* •
“Virtuous Virgil”: A New Norfolk (Tas.)
small boy was walking near a bridge the other day
when a rat rushed at him and, climbing up his leg,
bit him on the calf. He knocked the beast off, but
it came again, this time biting him on the arm.
The local theory is that the rat was a female with
a nest of young ones thereabouts. Any better offer-
ing?
* * * *
South Australia is worried over the arrival
of the fruit-eating flying-fox. The first one shot was
claimed to be something else, there being no record
of the pest within hundreds of miles. But now there
seems to be no doubt about it, a specimen of 35-inch
wing-stretch having been picked up dead in a Gawler
street —-evidently killed by electric wires—and iden-
tified by the director of the Museum in Adelaide. But
White, S. Australia’s naturalist, assures the local
people that there’s no need at all to worry.
* * * *
“D.F.” : One of the ideas in the mind of
George Bass when he set out on the voyage to South
America from which he never returned was to bring
the llama or vicuna to Australia. In a letter to
Captain Waterhouse about his project, dated from
Sydney on Jan. 5, 1803, he said that the guanaco
A REAL HOG FOR ART.
THE ARTIST: “Fond of pictures?”
THE PATRONn: "My oath! ’Ardly ever miss
a night.”
and pacos of Chile would be very suitable animals
for Australia, and that Governor King wished him to
bring some of them. Judge Therry asserts in his
“Reminiscences” that the llama was introduced later
and that there were several hundred of them in
Australia in the ’sixties. He even looks forward to
seeing a big trade in the export of alpaca wool. But
the Judge’s memory wasn’t always very good. Any-
way, there are no lalmas here now outside the Zoos.
UP COUNTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
' My health for weeks past had been vile.
My kindly neighbors said:
‘‘You go up country for a while,
Or soon you will be dead.
You go up country. ’Mid the trees,
Beside the creek, and in the breeze,
With fish to catch and flowers to seek,
You’ll be all right, man, in a week,”
1 went up country to the Fall.
1 heard the folk declare: •
“This place will not suit you at all—
You want the country air.
Clo on up-country, man,” they said.
“With mountain air upon your head,
And rowing on the river’s breast,
You’ll soon be hearty as the best.”
I moved on then to Duckfoot Spur.
There were some wise men here
W’ho said, “Gerrout! this isn’t fur—
Pluck up your stakes and clear.
Go out upon the great, wide plain,
’lheie, mid the swift wind and the rain
You 11 soon pull round in splendid style.
Go on up-country for a while.”
I trained to Bourke, and heard them sav-
“Don’t waste your time—move on.
Get up the country right away.”
1 took my bundle, and was gone. ...
Far out upon the desert waste
1 met a brother, black but chaste.
“You bound up-country, boss?” he said....
Then wildly back to town I fled.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


“Over a Mile a Minute!”
The Big Races of the Year.
The premier motor-cycle event of Australia-the Sale (Vic.) "200" resulted in another sweeping success for "Railroad-
DUNLOP TYRES
THIS IS THE THIRD YEAR IN SUCCESSION that “Dunlops” have won this classic event. Here are the results
Ist—C. DISNEY (Indian) on DUNLOPS
2nd—R. FINLAY (Excelsior) on DUNLOPS
3rd —I DENNIS (Indian) °n DUNLOPS
FASTEST TIME—C. DISNEY on DUNLOPS
(Actual distance, 225 miles; time, 3hrs. 34min. 59sec._over a mile a minute average—including stops for fuel.)
THE MORTLARE “ 100
99
saw another fine performance on "Dunlops.” W. J. Ousley—who last year established aWorl,d’s 100 Record
on this Victorian circuit —again putting up a wonderful ride from scratch, riding e
South Australian 100 Miles Championship
This classic was won by W. B. Randell on "Dunlops" with the identical machine and tyres upon which C. (Corner
established the first 20-hour Record between Adelaide and Melbourne.
It’s sustained speed events such as the above that annually provide Dunlop Tyres with the opportunity of publicly demonstratmg
thei^martadsupertorityfm 0 Durability. Only the best of materials and workmanship can withstand such strenuom tests,
and tiTrencated succSs of “Dunlops’’ in these long-distance races well serves to emphasise the undoubted fact that they
stand alone in this respect. NO SPECIAL COyERS are made for these contests, our standard tyres being used j
the same weight—the same quality—as is obtainable at any agents.
When you want long service with Economy use “RAILROAD” DUNLOPS. IT PAYS!
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
All States and N.Z.
wm
wm
m
Cr. s'
J
*
rm.
m
ma
m
&
ss^
m


0
0
: a n
COLDS
COUCHS
CROUP
LUNG.
TBOUBU3
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
©
I
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
As We Are Not
The Australians, by Arthur H. Adams
(Eveleigh Nash, London), is called a novel
and attempts to paint the conditions of the
Commonwealth as seen through the eyes of
a young English girl. The girl is the
daughter of a clergyman; and a fortunate
legacy of a thousand pounds enables her to
make a trip round the world which ends in
her remaining as a widow and mother in
Australia. The story is a mere peg on which
to hang descriptive matter; but the atmos-
phere is never Australian. The intention
seems to be to praise this continent and its
people, but there is a lack of understanding.
The young Australian girl—-who is made on
every possible occasion to talk about her
“nightie”—is libelled; and an Australian
writer, well known in every State of the
Commonwealth, is drawn with all the whole-
some strength, all the downright qualities,
all the genuine enthusiasms left out.
While the Australian girls in the book
are unpleasant young animals, the English
heroine is a mid-Victorian prude of monu-
mental ignorance. There is a politician, too
—-his career up to a point is exactly parallel
with that of a well-known public man—
who is supposed to be purified of an act of
public robbery by giving up the job he can
do better than anyone else to get killed as
a private soldier. A thin insincerity is the
note of nearly all the characters. Nobody
seems to have any purpose ; and the impres-
sion left upon an English reader must be
that Australia is a country sparsely peopled
with painted women who have nothing to
talk about but underclothing, and futile men
who brag and steal and condone each other’s
thefts. Great emphasis is laid upon cus-
toms which are supposed to be in marked
contrast to those of Britain. For instance,
the costumes worn in sea-bathing are care-
fully elaborated, apparently in order to
make the English doll show shocked sur-
prise. Yet at the smaller English bathing
resorts as long as 40 years ago mixed bath-
ing was the rule; and in that mixed bathing
men wore a great deal less and women no
more than they are compelled by law to
wear in Australia. The woman’s costume
was a little looser but no longer. More
than that; on Southsea beach, which
was then popular with week-ending Lon-
doners, men were allowed to* bathe at all
hours of the day with no clothing on at all.
English women passed and repassed those
naked bathers —generally soldiers —and did
not stop to peep or titter or even to explain
to neck-to-knee Australians how superior
they were in their refusal to see indecency
where none was intended.
But, indeed, with regard to sill Australian
amusements and occupations the author is
generally quite at sea. The A ustralians is
an attempt to write of a continent in terms
of a suburban allotment. Adams has writ-
ten books which deserve serious considera-
tion. His style can be as attractive as that
of anyone in the Australian book-making
business. This is incomparably the worst
thing to which he has signed his name.
Concerning Mandates
The appearanC e of Lieut.-Commander
Latham - S The significance of the Peace Con-
/crence frQm (ln Austra i ian Point of View
(MeMlle and Mullen ) comes opportunely
with the cabled news that Japan is not
fortifying, or otherwise militarising, the
Caroline or Marshall islands. Whether he
knew it or not at the time and no
reason to think that he didn’t—W. M.
Hughes made a shrewd bargain for Aus-
tralia when he agreed to accept a mandate
over the captured German colonies instead
of annexing them. There are various sorts
of mandates, and they have been exercised
under other names by victorious nations ever
since the first Roman colony was founded,
The rarest variety is that which is only
exercised till the subjects of it supply reason-
able evidence of a capacity to carry on by
themselves. The U.S.A. took up a Cuban
mandate on such terms after its war with
Spain, and, to the bewilderment of the
European chancelleries, got out and left the
Cubans to their own devices, for all practical
purposes, within a very few years. Britain
holds one sort of mandate in India and
-mother in Egypt. They resemble each other
chiefly in the matter of indeterminateness,
Once a mandate always a mandate is the
old-style diplomatists’ motto. Ireland has
existed for seven centuries—irreconcilable
alwavs _ uadei . a manda te similar in most
essen tials to the Russian mandate from which
Poland was recently delivered. Under this
rc,. . . .
!? rm p of Government the country is, to quote
‘ he 1 e fii ' V i administered under the
i aws f. f th * mandatory as an integral por-
tion of its territory. This is the completes!
?° sible f°? m °* the instrument; and it is
vanety hl ® h Hughes secured for the
Commonwealth in lespect of the late Ger-
™an Possessions in the Pacific. Australia
IS ,. tolerate all law-abiding
r ® llglons '- to prohibit slavery and the sale
ot arms and uquor; not to tram the natives
except for defence purposes ; and not to for-
Hfy the islands or use them as military or
naval bases. Hughes’s acceptance of these
conditions on Australia’s behalf involved the
acceptance of similar conditions by Japan
for application to the Caroline and Marshall
islands. Neither the R.A.N. nor the R.N.
require bases in the ex-German possessions.
Cn the other hand, if Japan happened at
any time to entertain sinister designs
against Australia, the islands which it is
now administering would he useful for the
very purposes to which it has agreed not to
put them. They lie almost exactly half-way
between the Japanese and ourselves. As
the laws of the Commonwealth automatically
became those of its new territorial respoii-
sibilities when they were handed over, the
White Australia doctrine runs there. In
other words, alien immigration is preventable
without undue friction.
Lieut.-Commander Latham, who was
attached to the Australian Delegation at the
Peace Conference, and is in civil life a Vic-
torian lawyer, believes in the League of
Nations and the Labor Covenant, but frankly
states some of the objections to both ideals.
A Satchel of Books
Under Furred Hats, by G. L. Berrie
(Lieut.), is the story of'the Sixth Light
Horse Regiment from its departure for the
war right through to the triumphant finish.
There is a stirring picture of the night on
which the men learned that they were to
have a chance of assisting at Gallipoli and
a still better one of the night of the depar-
ture from Anzac Beach. The whole is well
written, but the Palestine portion is rather
overloaded with names and details for the
average reader. This is, of course, inevit-
able. for the book is for the regiment as
well as of it. The illustrations are numer-
ous and very good.
Sappho and the Vigil of Venus, translated
by Arthur S. Way (Macmillan, London).
Sappho is known to the modern world by an
ode and a half and 170 fragments. This
translator has brought his skill and scholar-
ship to bear in a new way. He has recon-
structed a number of the fragments where the
metre is the same and the sense seems to
warrant it; and he asks the big scholar to
look the other way while the public is trying
to get the hang of his guesswork Sappho.
The work is good of its sort; but the very
nature of a lyric makes its translation impos-
sible. The rendering into English may be
correct, the guesses may be of the brightest
kind, but the verse, as presented, is only
very middling; and Sappho couldn’t have
been only very middling.
Classical Gold, chosen by Richard Lawson
(Macmillan, London). A little book con-
taining a number of translations of the best-
known bits in Greek and Roman writers.
The selector is a lecturer of Melbourne Uni-
versity. and the. chief fault to be found with
the little book is that it follows the beaten
track too closely. It is, in fact, a school-
master’s selection : but even a schoolmaster
should be able to find a more pleasing render-
lng of the .-Enehi’s best passages than that
ot Dryden. It doesn't ring like gold.
The Green Pea Pirates, by Peter B. Ivyne
(Ilodder and Stoughton). This is a capital
yarn of sea adventure in strange places.
There are three admirably-drawn characters,
sind many of the situations are humorous.
.Some of the things which happen are, of
course, quite incredible, but that doesn’t
make them any less interesting. This
viu M)l s versfl tility is remarkable. It is
difficult to believe that these pirates were
invented by the author of “The Long
Chance”; yet both books hold the attention
well.
Chance Acquaintance, by Robert Holmes
(Blackwood). More true tales of wild and
wicked youth turning to more or less useful
manhood. The stories are moderately well
told, and would be a lot more attractive if
the commonplaces of fiction were not used
f> freely in the narratives. Whv it should
be thought desirable to make the truth sound
like overworked romance when every writer
of untrue stories is trying his hardest to
get a new theme must remain a great
mystery.
White Witch, by Jack McLaren (Mel-
bourne Bookstall Co.), is another of the
refreshing island yarns which this industri-
ous Story-teller is turning out without any
visible weakening in the narrative flow or
sign of desperation in the limit for a plot,
ihe tale touches on the merger's consuming
fear of pourri-pourri, and the author ingeni-
ously uses the superstition to finish the
ominous heathen sorcerer who threatens to
murder his heroine before be has said his
last word. There is an excellent description
of the wizard’s attempt to pourri-pourri the
lady, one breathless nlidnight: in fact, the
writing is so vivid that the illustration of
the scene seems superfluous.
St. George and the Dragons, by Eden Phill-
potts (Duckworth and Co.). A capital
comedy in three acts, with a live and remark-
able bishop who sets everything in the gar-
den straight by his large sense of humor and
cheerful good nature.
New Magazines
The London Mercury, edited by J. C. Squire, is
~°od all through. It is in the middleweight class,
literary without being precious, clever without being-
insincere. It belongs to the same genus as the
English Magazine, but is a new species. Good ver.se
prefaces good articles mostly devoted to books and
bookmen. Thomas Hardy, H. Belloc and Walter de
la Mare are among the contributors to No. 3 ; and
the articles include “Shelley and his Publishers,”
by Roger Ingpen; “On Blake as a Prophet,” by A.
Glutton-Brock; and “Prose and Mortality,” by the
editor. There are excellent book reviews and notes
on the drama and fine aits, as well as much interest-
ing correspondence. An excellent half-crown’s worth.
The Unpartizan Review, which used to be the
Unpopular Review, looks very fresh and young to
have an octogenarian editor; and it is still more
remarkable to find a magazine of this sort produced
in America. Some of the articles in the number to
hand are excellent, including one “As to Striking,”
an account of Japan and Korea” and “War and the
God-makers.” Everything is in good, honest Eng-
lish ; and the appeal is to the very best American
reader. Price, 75 cents. Some time ago the presi-
dents of certain British learned societies laid their
heads together with a view to keeping the world up-
to-date about the things which the world is doing.
The result is Discovery, edited by A. S. Russell, and
described as a monthly popular journal of know-
ledge. It is wider in its scope than the big quarterly
Science Progress, and deals with subjects as far
apart as “Irish Drama,” “Air Routes,” “The Struc-
ture of Crystals” and “Dreams.” Both Discovery
and Science Progress are published by John Murray,
the former at sixpence, the latter at six shillings.
The New World is the English and American edition
of a big international magazine issued in the interests
of the League of Nations. The artcles for the most
part deal with subjects of universal interest, but
there is also space given to matter about which
Eastern and Southern Europe are more concerned
than London, Paris or New York. “Transport and
Civilisation” is balanced by “The Greek Church and
Hellenism” and “The British Electoral System” by
“Social Reform in the Czecho-Slovakia Republic.”
The magazine is not quite in the heavyweight class;
for “London,” a play by Dion Clayton Calthorpe,
appears there, and “The Pleasures of Middle Age,”
by Home Gordon. Price, half a crown. Lastly, there
is the Journal of the Parliaments of the
Empire, issued under the authority of the Empire
Parliamentary Association, a. medium for the exchange
of information between the Parliaments of the
British Commonwealth. There is an attempt to iet
the members of the group know not merely what
measures are being passed, but what views party-
speakers expressed upon proposed measures. Nobody
will want to read the thing right through, any more
than one wants to devour a dictionary at a meal;
but it should be an invaluable work of reference.
Price (to non-members), 7s. 6d.
The Inky Way
“J.F.H.”: The most highly-paid female
journalist in the world? Probably the
editress of the “Women’s Page” of London
Daily Mail. The billet is vacant, and
Northcliffe is inviting applications at £lOOO
a year. “Testimonials are not wanted and
carry no weight,” says Northcliffe, who
wants “specimens of work and original sug-
gestions.” It seems a good scheme, anyway,
for gathering suggestions.
“R.S.E.” : Some years before the outbreak
of the war, on the increasing tide of trans-
lations from the Russian came works by
Leonid Andreyeef; and his recent death in
the lowest poverty has removed perhaps the
most despairing pessimist from modern
literature. Andreyeef shared with Maxim
Gorky and Kuprin the leadership of the
younger school of Russian writers. But in
his plays and short stories —“The Seven
That Were Hanged” and "The Crushed
Flower” —and in “The Red Laugh” his pes-
simism grew tedious.
“S.T.S.” : It is difficult to see. where first
editions get their value; but they are liable
to be a good investment if the writer becomes
at all well known. Prices offered in a
current London catalogue: Stevenson's
“Vailima Letters” £1 155., and “A. Foot-
note to History” (1892) £4 10s. These
things are rareties, perhaps; but “Jekyll
and Hyde” (1880) has somehow climbed to
£1 10s., and Kipling’s “Many Inventions”
to a guinea. A guinea, too, is now the price
of Patrick Mac Gill’s “Songs of a Navvy,”
and A. C. Benson’s early poems of 1893
fetch £1 15s. (Possibly lie is trying to
suppress them.) But the most incompre-
hensible thing about this first-edition fad
is that books can fetch big prices though no-
body does or ever did read or praise them.
The glaring example in view comes from
Anthony Trollope. Two of his weakest
novels, “The Landleaguers” and “Ayala’s
Angel,” dead and forgotten, fetch respec-
tively £1 ss. and two guineas. Who fixes
these prices? If Supply-and-Demand, where
does the demand come from?
“H. 0.”: The habit of collaboration, long
known in the theatrical industry, spreads
to the book-producing trade. Five scrib-
blers and tune-makers are mostly re-
quired to manufacture an average musical
play, but this is beaten by “Dressing Gowns
and Glue,” an unexciting volume in the
production of which seven people had a
hand. The book is put forward as a col-
lection of nonsense verses by Captain L. do
G. Sieveking, with illustrations by John
Nash and Max Beerbohm. Paul Nash sun-
plies an introduction to the rhymes, G.
Iv. Chesterton (who must make'a steady
income by writing prefaces and introduc-
tions) furnishes some remarks anent Beer-
bolnn’s drawings, while Cecil Palmer pro-
vides a guide to the collaborators and col-
laborates with Hayward in publishing the
book. And this is only one instance. It
is a common experience nowadays'to pick
up a volume of somebody’s “collected”
poems (especially if the poet was killed
in the war), which is three-parts preface,
introduction, biographical note, appreciation,
index, blank pages, press notices and sun-
dries, and one-part Averse running about a
dozen lines to the half-page.
“Harrison O.” answers back: —
When, writing as a tradesman about the trade of
word-spinning, I referred by way of illustration
to one of my own jobs (“The Mount Marunga
Mystery”), I did not expect solemn protests on the
ground that I was trifling with the affection of the fair
lady Art. In reply to Albert the Good (B. 25/3/’2O),
I can hut say that, while I admire Art from
a distance, I could not make her my mistress without
the aid of pelf. When he advises that I should either
strive for self-perfection or “get work,” my answer
is that I have got it—work that pays me better than
sitting on a stool in a bank, although probably not
as well as would the brewing of beer. It is always
difficult to induce the man who makes a living by
other methods to regard writing as a job; he insists
upon mistaking it for a kind of sacrament. As for my
other critic, “P.0.M.” (B. 1/4/’2O), I can assure him
that I never claimed to be anything so moth-eaten
as a professional “man of letters,” but something more
alive and useful —a professional journalist, rhyme-
monger and Action-manufacturer. The initials “P.0.M.”
may belong to a well-known writer who is entitled to
make the same claim, but it seems to me that only an
“amateur” would be pained by my confession that I
padded a hook to make it more easily marketable.
The value of “The Mount Marunga Mystery” as
fiction is represented by various aids to a comfortable
existence such as have always been regarded as
matters of importance by professionals like Thackeray
and me.
“S.S.S.”: The note preparing us for
Wilfred Beaver’s book about Papua reminds
me. I, from the camp hospital on the
Lakekamu goldfields, had picked up Whit-
ton’s coastal Kiora at Motu Motu. As we
lay over-night tumbling in the big swell out
in the bay, I heard strains of sweetest music.
Starved for 12 moons, I thought it a magic.
(There are many magics in Papua.) Laria,
my treasure of an attendant, investigated.
“That one Captain,” he said, “he make
another kind Jew’s harp.” It was a man-
dolin, and a master-hand drew from it
Beethoven, Chopin or what one would,
exquisitely. We lazed along the coast to
Darn. There the smartest and best-turned-
out whaleboat I had ever seen put out, and
a splendid-looking man came aboard. I
wanted to go up the Fly River. The Resi-
dent said it was impossible. The Fly River
was no place for a woman. Even a woman
who had spent 12 months nursing natives
at Lakekamu. He was adamant. He was
leaving for Saibai this evening to pick up
an aureolite. I could take over whilst he
was away. I revelled in his Residency, its
garden and croton walks, its fine big rooms
exquisitely kept; hooks everywhere, and all
the best and newest magazines. Needless
to say the station was in absolute order,
the constabulary drilled to a nicety. Apart
from his fine sense of honor and duty. Mr.
Reaver had a fine humor and splendid grit.
Papua owes him much for splendid explora-
tory work ard research. He was killed at
Pozieres at the head of his company.


m
■
ft;.: .
4M
I
m
u:
* < P I’ll lllS *ll ill^
f' HI I
iliilSi
pill
llllilli
Hi
llilll
; H
ra
■ •!.:
illllil!
111811
n;
■ J
ft ft!
ft
HH
:’ V
H Hi
ipllp llllilli
I!
.ft' : :
H
«■ m 11 ■■ i!!;!j|!:!i
II
Vift
(lifljl
mm
■I ill liil
IliliiliMUcliMlllPliPlli
mm
m
Blilß
L
111 ill
H
m
U
.
■
ft :
1
: ft. ft
Hill 1
■
■ll
jjftftftftftift
lljjljP
<■<? •
m
ii
|! If H i
11111
■llll
in
«B>* -XSi
M
• ft'
m
\xJm
IP!
i* u
ft ft;
O
! m
\F*
s'’
&
m
MHU
1
m
KWH
li.: ft
»«
HftuiU
m
pi!
‘ H
•ft-.
sin
ill
m
.iiiiift
w.w*
X
X
i' i
■ "■ f
ft.
ii ii
mm
-ft
illi
m ) x ■
r.
m.
A
ii
1&*
iU
hjklhj
Australian Industry
Delivers its Masterpiece
Since the advent of the Motor Car,
tyre trouble has ever been present and
the large proportion of such trouble
has occurred in the wall of the tyre.
Exhaustive tests by the Perdriau
Technical Staff have resulted in the
design of what is known as the
"Reinforced Wall” and in the pro-
duction of this wall, Australian In-
dustry can justly claim leadership
in tyre construction.
This wall consists of extra ply of
stout British Fabric specially treated
with a scientific preparation for the
prevention of perishing.
Severe and exacting trials have demonstrated
the efficiency of this new wall, which with the old reliable
Perdriau Tread is responsible for remarkable mileages.
Fit Perdriaus for absolute Tyre security
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE
BRISBANE AND
PERTH
A
The Reinforced Wall” Gives Added Strength at Vital Spots.


“THERE’S MANY A SLIP
’TWIXT CUP AND LIP.”
S^/ isks WOOL
when it reaches market.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
P A
*
k
•M» t***. i»* tlilv
8
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR PLEASURE
More fresh air, more pleasant exercise,
and a realization of all the pleasures
that await you in the open country,
on a bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings, is a better tonic than any
doctor can prescribe. A constant com-
panion, and trusty servant, it is at your
rervice any moment, and will carry you
jnywhere with comfort, economy and
e -se, away just where your fancy may
dictate.
To fully enjoy cycling be sure your
bicycle is built of B.S.A. Fittings, the
reputation behind the well-known
Trade Mark is a sure guarantee of
fjprfect construction, reliability and
ieng service. Send for Handbook post
free and note the superior features of
geruimo B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
etttincs
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
khjk
he largest selling
quality pencil in.
the world,
A/ENU
VPENOLS
ghk
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
1) R AUG H T S MEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
/IMmimMM
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC Ok-Z
BRAND
Containing about
(99.9%
99.95% Metallic
guaranteed).
Zinc
SPELTER
BHAS
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
It. N\ KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 63 Brookman Buildings.
“ THE PLUG
THAT FLEW
TO AUSTRALIA
jkļ
FIT A K.LG.
If you have a faulty Sparking Plug' on one of your
Cylinders, throw it away and tit a K.L.G. Then compare
the results —watch how many other Plugs it will outlast.
They were used on the Atlantic Flights—both on Air-
planes and the Airship R 34, and
SIR ROSS SMITH
USED THEM
in his history-making flight to Australia. You can't
impose greater tests than these. The patent self-locking
terminal clip is a great feature that does away with all
old-fashioned terminal-nut troubles. Ask your Garage.
Sole Distributors for Australia,
WHOLESALE ONLY:
. SMITH & SONS (MA.) LTD
Portland House, 30>32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY;
and 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
Oitoio
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens —Obtainable Everywhere
3^uLpTiT^mnMTnTmtTTnnw»HnTffinmTmTmT!Tt!wnns
irminmiimHHTYTT
- 4
M
W~gk
i
%
X
T C
s==V-£»,
o
i
■/'" Jr
£
m
Will.Ji ..,
%
ft
m
m
i*Bo
1
*ssi«iSBHPiNll®ll lIIHP3
iußKuuuiuummuu'9
uim
iiiUiiiLnuiiu
UliiUUmiU)
See \hh brand
on each Shir!'
IS
Made in Australia
Shirts
feel better, look better, and are better.
Small wonder when you consider we have been
making shirts for over 25 years. In every par-
ticular Thistle Shirts measure up to the exacting
requirements of discriminating men.
Ask also for “Thistle” Pyjamas.
Sold at all Leading Shirt Departments.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
AS4
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Federal-Snire steamer Shropshire took
from Australia the world’s record fruit cargo
—108,348 cases of apples from Hobart and
34,000 from Fremantle, making nearly 3000
tons of fruit. But the Wiltshire, of the
same line, will beat that. She has loaded
140,000 cases at Hobart, and is lifting a
few thousands more from Westralia. Hobart’s
best before this was the 124,831 taken by
the Durham in 1907.
“Araminta”: So we are making our own
clothes-pegs at last, after all these years of
letting George of Dallarville do it. My
grocer doesn't stock the Australian article
yet. He says he has no intention of handling
them, because “they break as soon as you
put ’em on the line.” I don’t know how he
knows this; I don’t think he knows. And,
anyhow, as early and frequent splitting is a
defect not absent in the expensive foreign
peg, I should be glad if anybody could tell
ine_ what the Australian make is, and where
it is, so that I may find out its imperfections
for n" '"'lf.
* * * *
“l/.r . Apau iiom a revv pelts, mostly
sealskins, salt seems to have been the first
article of export from S. Australia—the
”tate which to this day fills the most salt-
cellars in the Commonwealth. A notice in
the shipping lists of 1829 records the arrival
at Launceston on March 13 of the schooner
Henry, commanded by John Griffiths, ship-
builder and sea-captain (he was a native of
t arramatta), “from Kangaroo Island and
the west coast of New Holland,” with a
cargo of 800 fur-seal skins, 400 black seal-
skins. 2500 kangaroo skins, two casks of
seal-oil and 20 tons of salt collected from
the natural saltpans at Kangaroo Island.”
“Cudgewa”: The record £122 per acre
for farm land in Victoria, mentioned by Tine
Bulletin recently, was easily beaten by the
prices paid for blocks of O’Connor’s farm at
Crossley, Koroit (Vic.), at a sale on March
18 - 48 acres reillis ed £7OOB, an average
ot £146 per acre. The prices paid for the
various blocks were £2OO per acre, £l9O
£1 il, £l5O, £l4O, £l3O, £125 ; , £l2O and £7O.
This land is first-class volcanic soil and has
produced record crops of onions and pota-
toes. Although the prices paid are heavy,
one or two good seasons will put the pur-
chasers on their feet. Last year a neighbor-
ing farmer harvested 12 tons of onions from
one acre, a gross return of £312 from the
acre in one year.
“Murkah”: “Maorilander’s” argument in
favor of hand-sending (B. l/4/’2O) as
against the automatic telegraph may hold
good for M.L., where neither the distances
nor the volume of business can compare with
Australian figures. The quadruplex system
of telegraphy quoted by him requires four
exnert telegrapnists at each end. two sending
and two receiving, all using one wire. Hand-
sending averages 20 words per minute—
about 40 messages an hour—which gives a
total .line capacity of 160 messages per hour
for eight workers. In auto-working five
“gellists” preparing tape (a “gell” is an
electric typewriter) and one mechanic in
charge of the transmitter can rattle through
100 to 200 w.p.m., or well over 200 messages
an hour. Four touch typists at the receiv-
ing end easily cope with this output. The
auto also works both ways at once, giving
a total line capacity of more than 400
messages per hour for about 24. workers.
Seeing that gellists and typists are cheaper
workers than telegraphists, “Maorilander’s”
statement that auto-working is more costly
does not stand, while the increased line-
capacity is all to the good. In a country
such as Australia, where important telegraph
centres are separated by thousands of miles,
line capacity is- an important matter. In
spite of “Maorilander’s” assertion the auto
ts in use elsehere. In the U.S.A. it is the
leading system, later systems, giving still
greater line-capacity, not proving successful.
In England whole newspapers (produn d
simultaneously in several cities) are handled
by it with satisfaction.
THE SIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Cursed is he who cannot pay!”
The world may cant and its preachers rant,
Wowsing moralists precepts chant;
But that commandment holds its sway
Over the gilded earth to-day.
We rail at the gold we hope to win,
But Penury lives as the One Great Sin.
“Come, be a man, and pay your way!”
The standard’s there, by which we swear;
Money's an excellent veneer
That saves whoever has cash to pay;
Keeps him safe from the things they say
Who truly the worth of all men know
By what they learn that the poor fools owe !
“Two pounds fine or a month in quod!”
So justice speaks, through its bloated cheeks ;
The test of the criminal’s life it seeks.
The golden standard’s the rule of God:
Who, needless, steals -may escape the rod ;
’Tis only just that such men go free
Whilst others suffer—for penury !
Leave your children and thrash your wife;
Drink like a hog and act like a dog
To all who may on your pathway jog;
Crush young plants on your path of life —
You’re safe as long as your coin is rife;
But Cashless no ease from reproof can win:
His ev'ry failing becomes a sin !
Drama and life go hand in hand ;
To get his due, the hero through
His troubles fights with a hope in view;
Weds the heiress and gets the land,
And then his virtues all understand !
But what would happen, in brutal fact,
If he Jiacl no cash in the final act?
Sell your honor and lay in gold!
lie who has cash can come no smash
Whether his acts be staid or rash.
Wowser and sinner the same creed hold—
All our standards arc based on gold.
Beggars, indeed, may to Heaven win;
Penury here is the One Great Sin!
Yet should we not as true Christians pray,
When some poor brother has gone astray:
“Now, Heaven forgive him, he cannot pay”?
N.S.W
HAMER.


X
TE
CO
Mlt
Trade
.I**' r*''l^'*« ft t. -**.‘ #
'
.;•** ./
-T
-.#* ', V %
MORE POWER!
HOW many motorists blame their
cars because they “eatup” petrol?
But how many realise that, in the
majority of cases, excessive consump-
tion of petrol is due to defective
lubrication?
Perfect lubrication means using' an oil
which, while assuring lubrication to all
moving parts, maintains a complete seal
between piston rings and cylinder walls.
This prevents loss of power and waste of
fuel.
ft is becoming a habit nowadays for motor-
ists to say TEXACO when they want oil,
because TEXACO Motor Oil holds the seal.
For an all round reduction n running expenses of
motor car, truck cr c cle ask your garage for
TEXACO.
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) LTD.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. PERTH,
LAUNCESTON & HARRIS, SCARFE & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
TEXACO
MOTOR OILS
Petrol Greases. Industrial Lubricants, Marine Oils,
S. Kerosene, Roofing, Road Asphalt, etc.
UJ
II
2
9
8
Westclox
BIG BEN
7
K
a
6
Westclox —Big Ben
As Big Ben stands there,
large, dignified, confident,
you expect him to do the
right thing at the right
time.
Is it a straight timekeep-
ing job? By all means trust
it to Big Ben. Is it an im-
portant call at an unusual
hour? Leave that to him,
turn in, sleep tight. You
will be waked on the dot.
It is Big Ben’s business
to wake people in the morn-
ing and to wake them on
time. He does it loyally,
steadily,, punctually. Big
Ben’s family name is YVest-
clox, which stands for qual-
ity, looks, accuracy.
Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 15/-; America, 10/6;
Jack o’Lantern, 22/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 20/-;
Boy proof, 12/6
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
SUPPORT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES.
Forged RAILWAY TRAMWAY TYRES
By Weldless Process
from Australian High
CARBON STEEL.
Made up to 6ft.
diameter.
Roll Finished
or
Machine Finished.
TESTS:
TENSILE ]
ELONGATION
DEFLECTION I
To Standard
Specification.
We also manufacture Points
and Crossing's and Railway
and Tramway cross-overs*
*a*
“I r.
‘V
8
Showing portion of order for Tyres and Axles for Silverton Tramways.
Orders have been executed or
are in hand for the following:
New South Wales Tramways
(several repeat orders, over
8000).
New South Wales Railways.
Silverton Tramways.
Melbourne Electric Tramways.
Victorian Railways.
South Australian Railways and
Tramways.
West Australian Railways.
New Zealand Railways.
Launceston and Hobart Tram-
ways.
Rockhampton (Q.) Tramways.
Wellington, Auckland and
Christchurch Tramways.
Also for Export to
Singapore, Java,
Federated Malay States,
Fiji, etc.
SEND US YOUR ENQUIRIES.
NOTE.—Wholly Made in Australia from Australian Material.
THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Address Cables & Telegrams:
“THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
TELEPHONE:
No. 5 (2 lines)
Castlemaine Exchange.
Sales Agents, Melbourne:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty.
Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co., Ltd.
Adelaide:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
Brisbane:
Engineering Supply Co. of
Australia, Ltd.
Perth:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.


hjl
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people foi
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of e xtraordinary
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may be mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically ....
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
hjklhjklhj
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
ALTER
ATH R O
PTY. LTD.
50 Yofk St.
SYDNEY.
*Wth rv.&
Crlme
lcaya
Sri
5™
rrrr
mi
H-H
r
m
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading Hotel.
A Few Minutes
aDayfora Good
Complexion
IS it worth that to you?
There is a simple, sure
way that costs little and
if followed regularly will
bring results.
Try this simple formula—
“A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
powder over all.”
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
make.s the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/G-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
■JC
mM
&
&
mW
m
Wm
m
Puts New Life
Into Your Motor Car
THERE is nothing so annoying as en-
gine trouble, and 80 °/o of it is caused
by Carbon. That knocking and loss of
power, extravagant use of fuel and slow
response to the throttle are due to just one
thing —carbon in your cylinders. Clean
them out with
and your car will run as it did the first month—
quietly and full of life.
Five minutes’ time is all it requires. Simply
pour an ounce of Carbon Remover into each
cylinder through the spark plug opening. Allow
it to stand 30 to 45 minutes. Then start your
engine and watch the cloud of carbon come out
through the exhaust. You can minimize carbon
accumulation by adding
4 ounces of Carbon Re-
mover to each 10 gallons
of petrol you use.
Safe and Guaranteed
Johnson’s Carbon Remover is
excellent for any type of engine.
It cannot injure the metal in any
way, does not affect the lubrica-
tion or injure the oil in the crank
case. Thousands of letters in
our files bear testimony of the
wonderful results obtained from
Johnson’s Carbon Remover.
Buy a trial tin from your dealer.
Ask him also about Johnson’s
Prepared Wax, a beauty polish
for your motor and Johnson’s
Radiator Cement for leaky radi-
ators. If you have any difficulty
in obtaining Johnson’s Products
write to us.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street Sydney, N.S.W.
m
m
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUR business is primarily that of exporting American
chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash, chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachfred
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
NewYorK - San Francisco. U.S A.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you s ave finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
L£ any illustration appearing in THS
UuiXETiN takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Cadbury’s are chewing the idea of start-
ing works in the Commonwealth, and have
taken an option over 246 acres at Clare-
mont, a few miles from Hobart, as a possible
site for works.
Having outbid the Vic. Government for
the services of Miss M. G. Cuthbertson,
Senior Inspectress of Factories, Myers,
Ltd., has secured the experienced lady as
industrial adviser. She will try to keep the
company right respecting wages, hours and
holidays for nearly 2000 employees.
“Covale”: It happened at one of the muni-
cipal festivals given at Mansion House, Lou-
don. A party of Diggers had been invited
to attend. On sighting the display of gold-
and silver-plate set out on the tables, one
hard-case remarked, “S’truth, they should
have had a look at our conduct-sheets before
they let us in here!”
On Feb. 23 John Clancy finished his 47th
year in the Northern Territory, but he in-
tends to go on living there for some time.
He has not been once out of the Territory
since he landed in 1873. Exit he isn’t the
oldest inhabitant, for Mrs. Tuckwell, still
living at Darwin, was there when he first
asked the way to the pub.
As a sample of sardonic official humor it
would be hard to beat the Easter Tuesday
effort in Melbourne. The branch post-office,
which is under the Commonwealth, was
opened at the State Public Offices; but as
it was a State public holiday the front door
of the building, which affords the only
entrance to the post-office, was closed.
Captain Sorenson, head of the A.I.F.
Furlough Branch at 11. Q., Loudon, has
landed back in Australia without any of the
advertisement given to less deserving heads.
Because the overstaying of leave was almost
a habit with Diggers, Sorenson’s job was
one of the most difficult on the whole 11. Q.;
but he always gave the boys a “good spin,”
and was a benefactor to hundreds of them.
“Devilfish”: Lever Bros, weren’t the first
to turn copra into soap. The Hobart Town
Courier of March 11, 1828, after mention-
ing the arrival of the Caledonia with 17
packages of Mauritius soap, says: “But if
the manufacturers of the Isle of France
employ cocoanut oil, which they formerly
did, as a substitute for fat in the composi-
tion of soap, the smell of which is very
offensive, it can never succeed as an article
of import to this eolony.”
“Biobox”: Los Angeles movie-men have
at last turned the handle on a picture actor
going to a horrible death. Earl Burgess,
flying in an aeroplane with an aeronaut,
fell while attempting to cast a dummy into
space. The camera-men photographed the
whole descent up to the last horrible moment
when the body tangled up in the telephone
wires. They thought it was the dummy.
The film was the only evidence the coroner
needed.
“First Mate”: St. Vincent’s Gulf (S.A.),
in the vicinity of Wardang Island, has been
the grave of many a foreign windjammer,
and recently a big French barque went
ashore there. The Marine and Harbors
Board are well aware that the charts are
misleading, but they have not taken any
visible steps to notify mariners of the
danger. When the Commonwealth took
over control of lighthouses it was thought
that there would be an end to the
old muddling, but apparently there are no
votes hanging on to this, and a few lives
don’t matter.
“J.F.11.” (London) : Amy Sherwin, the
“Tasmanian Nightingale” of long ago, now
one of London’s leading music-teachers, is
in quest of vocal talent among demobilised
soldiers. She is going to organise a sing-
ing competition among them, and to the
winner she will award a musical scholar-
. ship. “There are more hidden voices of
wonderful quality than are generally sup-
posed,” says the former prima donna, and
in proof she points to her own lucky find
one Christmastide. Some children were sing-
ing carols outside her residence, and she
was struck by the quality of one of the
voices. That nipper, after training, became
Stella Carol. And wasn’t Caruso found
lathering and shaving in a barber’s shop?
And Tom Burke, Melba’s principal present-
day associate, wrenched from the depths of
a coal-mine? And John Harrison from
monotonous mill toil?
Thanks to the bakers’ carriers, one great
cause of Easter indigestion is disappearing.
The hot crossed relic of a barbarous age
has been dropping out ever since the carters
cut* their connection with it. Consumers
must send for the goods, and in households
where there are no children, or the family
baker bakes afar off, the habit of eating
inflated bread with a cross on its Jn-east
is going the way of the old mince-pie habit.
Kiddies will do their best to keep buns on
the Easter menu, but the bakers and their
carters join with dad’s dyspepsia to defeat
them. In the same way sentiment didn’t
keep valentines going on February the 14th
after the annual occasion had degenerated
into an opportunity for posting an “ugly
one” to the head of the family or his wife.
Yet the girls, Heaven knows! had good
business reasons for wanting to keep St.
Valentine’s Day holy.
“F.H.”: Long ago Mary Gilmore, at a
time when the wives and children of the
N.S.W. coalminers were alleged to be in
desperate straits for sustenance, published a
last-resort means of keeping Willie and
Annie fat and rosy. Mrs. Gilmore recom-
mended the free use of boiled wheat. Upton
Sinclair, another pal of the under-dog, advo-
cated a similar device about a decade ago.
His remedy for avoiding starvation and
thriving on the effort, consisted in absorbing
the following ration (for an adult) : Break-
fast, Soz. boiled wheat, 2oz. raisins or prunes,
one apple or banana. Dinner and tea the
same, plus 1 extra oz. of dried fruit and loz.
of nuts —not peanuts, which are not nuts
but beans. Less than three ounces of wheat,
boiled for five or six hours till it is a thick
porridge, makes the Boz. above prescribed.
’Phis balanced dietary is stated to provide
the 2000 calories necessary to keep an adult
in full vigor. Personally I like a bone to
chew on ; but —well, there’s many a cocky
who may care to have the recipe. The
trouble with a good many of him will be
to find the 3pz, of wheat,


Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY
What Keeps a
Battery Young'.
To be reliable, a storage battery
must have well-made plates.
Battery solution must be proper
strength and required purity.
Battery jars must be mechanically
strong and must allow no leakage of
current or battery solution.
But its the insulation between
the plates that keeps that battery full
of life and adds months to its term of
useful service.
Willard Threaded Rubber Insula-
tion has made many wonderful records
in keeping batteries on the job far
beyond what used to be the battery
age limit.
.Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
igjggjgij yugg!
STORAGE
BATTERY
A
0
a*
%


amcußA
HEALS
ITCHING
Of the skin on chest and shoulders.
Suffered for a month and appeared to
be getting worse. Dry and scaly and
itching so intense scratched and made
skin bleed. Decided to try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and after using
them one week the itching was entirely
stopped. Continued using Cuticura
and am healed.
From signed statement of James
Kirby, 75 Baptist St., Redfem, Sydney,
November 7, 1917.
Keep your skin clear by using Cuti-
cura for every-day toilet purposes.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
WiiSiams
Holder Top
SHAVING STICK
.Ul
i
llia/775
Co
MEN who appreciate'
the comfort of a
good clean shave
will welcome Williams’
“Holder” Top Shaving
Stick for the economy,
shaving comfort and con-
venience it affords. The
Shaving Stick and metal
ca p are i n one piece; the fin-
gers never touch the soap.
It gives you a rich, moist,
abundant, soothing lather,
and makes shaving a plea-
sure no matter how stub-
born the beard may be.
If your Chemist cannot sup-
p'y you send 21- in stamps
direct to “ Williams,” Box
98, G.P.0., Sydney, and we
will forward you by re-
turn a full size William’s
“Holder” Top Shaving
Stick—Post Free.
We also recommend
“Williams” Luxury
Shaving Cream,
Quick and Easy Shaving
Powder.
Shav-
ing
Cakes
for the
Mug
Sold
Every-
wuere.
W 2
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book oil
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
I£s*a3
I'gf COMFORT
SAFETY
==G==s3
Feed Grinder
Puts the Grain in Feeding Condition
AF AIRB ANKS - MORSE "G” Feed Grinder
will not only put the grain in the best con-
dition for feeding, but should save you more than
its original cost in the first year. Durable and
simple, with no complicated gearing to absorb
power and increase wear, it is especially adapted
for grinding small grains. Mixed grains or ear
com are ground fine in one operation.
With each mixer are furnished fine plates for grinding
dry grain or shelled com, very fine; and medium plates for
grinding new or damp grain and ear corn, medium fine.
The grinders and feed are always under instant control.
The “G” Grinder may be equipped with an all-steel sack-
ing elevator or wagon box elevator on order. It is most
successfully operated in connection with type “Z” engine.
Write, today, for catalogue of "G”
Grinders, ‘ ‘Z’ ’ Engines, Pumpers and
other machines of value for the farm.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Manufacturers Chicago, U. S. A.
London, England Buenos Aires, Argentina
hjkl
DANCAR, CEDYE & COMPANY, Ltd., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd., Mastcrton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River,
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
mm
£l* !2?
m
tLHMUmn
i
v?
*
C-YALE-)
On Native Hut or
Giant Skyscraper
You can go to “the roof of the
world” and find a Hindu hut,
on the Himalayas, guarded with
a Yale Padlock on its heavy
wooden door.
The “roof of the world” in New
York is the Woolworthßuilding
the giant skyscraper that
rears its head 57 stories above
Broadway level. It, also, is
equipped with Yale Builders’
Locks and Hardware.
Yale products are universal in
application.
* You are sure of positive protec-
j tion and satisfaction with a Yale
‘ product from the intricate
bank lock to the smallest
padlock, night latch, builders’
hardware, chain block or door
closer.
Look for the trade-mark
“Yale” on all of them.
The Yale &Towne Mfg. Co.
Established 1868
New York U. S. A.
\
YALE'
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features
1 — Hoists twice as .fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton (22401b.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
G—Hand and Electric JUocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
jL. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
South Aus. has supplied another horse
for the Princes visit. It is E. J. Harm’s b.g.
Confidence, a frequent prize-winner. The Military
Department gave 100 guineas for it.
Trotting, hitherto practically unknown in
Adelaide, now has an Association, which races on
Alberton Oval. Stakes, £7O at the opening meet-
ing. were doubled at the second. The chief obstacle
is that all betting except by totalisator is unlaw-
ful in South Aus. ; and there is no chance of the
tote being got for these meetings.
An English journal lately commented on
the public-spirited management of the leading Aus-
tralian racing club's, as compared with the utter
lack of patriotism shown by the English Jockey Club
during the war. But, then, the control of the sport
is basically different in the two countries. Of all
the various forms of sport instituted by John Bull,
by the grace of his old nobility and gentry, the
Turf alone has remained under aristocratic control
all the time. The Jockey Club is the most arrogant
and exclusive concern on earth. It cares nothing
for any public outside the House of Lords. Horse-
racing in England has flourished in spite of its
ruling powers, not because of them, and as a gate-
money show it can hardly be said to have flourished
at all, in the V'.R.C. and A.J.C. sense of the word.
“Spare Colonel”: Plenty of the lads will
remember when the Prince of Wales played two-up
with the Diggers in France. When Ned took the
kip the push started laying their bets: “Let ’em go,
Prince.” “Give ’em a fly, Prince,” and so forth.
But one rough-neck struck a new note when he
bawled: “Five francs he don’t turn his old man’s
head up!”
* * * *
“Fax” : To get an idea of the crudity of
the stuff that used to go as prize-fighting 100 years
ago one should read in “BoXiana” of a fight the
Prince of Wales attended on Brighton racecourse
in 1786. “Earl was a tall, strong man, and, in
point of appearance, the favorite, and was actually
becoming so from his exertions, when Tyne put
in a blow upon his temple that made him reel
against the rail of the stage, and he instantly
dropped dead; whicli unfortunate circumstance pro-
duced a most afflicting scene, and the Prince de-
clared he would never witness another battle. It
appeared by the evidence before the Coroner’s jury
that Earl had been for some time previous to the
battle engaged in an election contest at Covent
Garden, and had been in one continual state of
inebriety during the whole of it.” A good punch
on the nose in the first round would xloubtless have
saved Earl’s life by letting some of his blood
out, and then he would have been the hero of
the hour instead of the corpse of the occasion.
Believers in the “good old days” of the prize-ring,
when men etouslied with bare knuckles under the
blue canopy of Heaven, might have their faith
shaken by the stories of some of these old fights
and fighters. They gave and took plenty of obvious
punishment in those days, but the little bit of
money they got for it was about as much, appa-
rently, as their “noble art” was worth.
Australia's premier pedestrian event, the
Stawell Easter Gift —£100, £3O, £l5, £5 —was
this year won by Archibald George Cashmore off
the 7yds. mark in 12 2-ssee. Cashmore is a plea-
sant-mannered young man of 24, born at Moyston,
near Stawell, who while in khaki had many vic-
tories —including the Moascar, Egyptian Expedi-
tionary Force and two brigade championships.
Vie. Football League is considering a sug-
gestion to alter the starting time from, 3 to 2.30
p.m. But it’s no use making a change unless the
League is prepared to penalise every club that is
not out at the stipulated time. If the rule is not
enforced, it will speedily be derided, and things
will be as bad as they were before, when many
games were finished in the murk.
* * * *
What are the chances of Australia’s
women-swimtriers at the coming Olympic contests?
Fanny Durack won the 100 metres Olympic cham-
pionship in 1912 (Mina Wylie was second), estab-
lishing a world’s record in her heat with linin.
19 4-osec. Mina’s time was Imin. 25 2-ssec. In the 400
metres relay race Britain. Germany and Austria finished
in that order. For, Britain Misses Moore, Fletcher,
Spiers and Steer covered the distance in smin.
52 4-5 sec., averaging lmin. 28 l-ssec. each. If
the performance of Connie Jeanes in winning the
200yds. championship of England recently in 3min.
4sec. can be taken as a guide, Australia hasn’t much
to fear in that direction. The snags are the Ameri-
can girls The Misses Boyle, Bleibtrey, Bunvan
and Lord arc said to have swum a 400yds. relay
race in 4min. 59sec. As 400 metres equals 437.2yd5.
an increase of, say, 40 seconds for the extra 37yds.
would make their time smin. 39sec. Australia’s
team and times on present form will be: Fanny
Durack (lmin. 20sec.), Mina Wylie (lmin. 21sec.j,
Elsie Venning (lmin. 24sec.) and Mabel Spring-
field (lmin. 24sec.). Total time, smin. 29see.
The winner of the ladies’ 100 metres title is harder
to forecast. Fanny Durack, the present holder, will
be up against Charlotte Boyle, of America (she is
credited with having equalled Fanny’s time for
100 metres), and Violet Walrond, the 15-year-old
Maorilander. who recently won the 100yds. cham-
pionship of the Dominion in Infill, li 4-ssec.
equal to Fanny's best figures this season.
The deepest fishing in Australian waters
is done by the Tasmanians who angle for the real
trumpeter. Off Cape Pillar they haul him up from
the bottom or thereabouts in 70 and even 80 fathoms
of water. The trumpeter isn't much of a fighting
fish, but the big ones are a pretty hefty dead-
weight at the end of a line. They run often to
401 b., and there have been old men up to 601 b.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : The biggest black bream ever
I saw weighed went 51b. lOoz. It was caught by
Frank Aldrich in Lake Macquarie, near the entrance
to Cockle Creek (N.S.W.). • Was told there was a
bigger one at the Fisheries Museum, and went
t’other day to see it; but it had been mislaid, or
something.
* * * *
“Gormey”: Country race-clubs provide
amusement, if not sport. In the west of the Speck
one official acts as treasurer, secretary and handi-
capper, and topped the score recently by riding
the whole day’s programme. The nags he rode
didn't get a place, which probably saved a lot of
trouble.
* * * *
G. Ollivier, the M.L. tennis champion, beat
A. E. Beamish (Eng.) for the second time at Christ-
church (M.L.) the other day. ,The first occasion
was in M.L. in 1912.
* * * *
“Comedy King”: I was absorbing tea and
cake when two Diggers came in and sat at my table.
One was still in uniform; the other had the little
gold medallion at his buttonhole, and from their
conversation it was their first re-union in Australia.
“Where’s Boxer Buchanan?” asked he in civvies.
“Gore west,” said the soldier —“he clicked at
Amiens.” “Poor old Boxer! Stiff luck after going
so far.” “Yeh,” responded the soldier carelessly.
“1 s’pose he did. All the same, the cow robbed me
of a fiver. I had him backed to beat Bluey Jones,
of the 35th, in a tournament, and he goes and gets
knocked the day before. I ain’t had much time for
hini since.”
The South Aus. motor-cycling long-dis-
tance event still goes across to Yorke’s Peninsula
for a course. It is a triangular one, on roads good
and practically level, but with some awful corners,
between Minlaton. Brentwood and Stansburv. This
year the usual 200 miles was cut down ‘ to half
that distance, and got a record entry. With all
the best-known local men but Horner competing,
Randell (laimin.) got home alone in lh. 57min.
42sec., v'hich is record time for the 100 on thin
course. Hubbard (scratch) was sixth, with 2hr.
smin. 41sec.
(Continued on page 38.)


.
H
H
m
m
y M
:r'
■
v v
■
■ ! •
II
■
B m
■ ■■ S > S* ,
w-
■-
m
m
«* «**
3'-™
rf y/m, I’ll tell you what decided me —
For about eight years Fd been paying for Marjorie’s music lessons. She didn’t
make wonderful progress. In fact, it was a problem to keep her interested.
One evening whilst passing a neighbour’s place we heard Rachmaninoff’s Prelude being most gloriously
played. It has always been a favourite of mine and I said to Marjorie, 'Little woman, that’s the tech-
nique I want you to have.’ She electrified me by saying that we were listening to an Australian-made
Player-Piano, played by one of her own friends who had never had a music lesson ill her whole life.
Now, I realize how foolish I was in expecting to make an unusually proficient pianist out of Maijorie.
Jack is the gifted one, and his improvement in interpretation since I bought that Beale is nothing
short of marvellous. He will play a roll over till he knows just how it should go and then practises
till he gets every shade of expression just right.
As a factor in one s musical education, Jim, the player can play a mightier part than the average
man realizes.”
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the Tkale
Showrooms:
333 George Street, Sydney.
hjlhj
Factory:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale.
BRANCHES—New South Wales : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. Victoria : Maples in all Mel-
bourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia : J. A. Thompson Co. Ltd., Perth.
—— BEALE 6C CO. (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Maryborough, Townsville, Rockhampton, Mackay, Cairns.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Watch, 20/-, 25/-,
30/-. 40/-. Silver, £ 2 , £2/10/-. Gold,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £O. ri.ck, Brown or
Grey Strap. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Lever,
£3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-.
Extra-jewelled, £6/10/-, £7/10/-. Gold-
tilled, Waltham or Elgin, 10-year case,
£3/10/-; 20-year, £5/10/-; 25-year,
£6/10/-. E xtra-jewelled, £7/10/-.
Solid Gold, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O, £3O.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£B/10/. Extra-jewelled, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCH SPECIALIST.
IH
£■;
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever Movement Compensation Balance,
£B/10/-. Others, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £O/10/-,
£7/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5. Guaranteed.
/
VtSAunniKMa
HBctonca «w
avc/uv.
6 \ =_
Slit
""niiWini’sit**
A. Saunders’ Silver Hunting Keyless Flv-back Chronograph,
guaranteed reliable, £B/10/-; Extra Jewelled, £lO, £l2/10/-
Gold Hunting, Extra Jewelled, £2O, £25, £3O.
Send for Our Latest Illustrated Price List.
We Post All Orders Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George St. ( ° p & a R t ?X ay Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Open-face Lever
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled, £3, £3/10/-,
Gold-filled, Waltham or Elgin, £3/10/-'
£4/10/-. Oct. Gold, £5, £5/10/-!
£6/10/-. Guaranteed.
\
/
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade Nickel Lever,
25/-, 30/-
Extra Jewelled, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever Movement, Compensation Balance,
£lO. 15ct. Gold, £l5. Extra Jewelled, £l7/10/-.
Guaranteed.
tkc “Prey&t
L 6
f*
U\sist~ UjoXrtX
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
STL
condense.^
M lljR
I yj , NEST BRAND
? MADE.IN AUSTR'
ANGLO SWISS CON 1
tra l ' a
I?
RplS
tv
Melbou
tLAI
Perth
2
Sf V
ft"
7
ss r
a
N. 59


Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatre* Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MclM-0
1* IVO 11 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND
SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A DELIGHTFUL NEW ENGLISH REVUE FROM
THE COMEDY THEATRE. TONDON, ENTITLED
TAILS UP.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“J”IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY'.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE VERY LATEST MUSICAL COMEDY SUCCESS,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Prices as usual.
S V I> N E I.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.
THE REVUE OF A THOUSAND AND ONE
DELIGHTS,
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast.
Plans at Paling’s.
CU 1 T K K I O N T II KA T It IS. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 7.45. MATINEES WEDNESDAY
AND SATURDAY AT 1.45.
.1. C. WILLIAMSON’S GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plans at Paling’s.
TII EAT It E It OVA L, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF GRAND OPERA.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 24.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. will present for the first
time in Sydney their unique combination of
DIGGER-PIERROTS.
Plans at Paling.’s
DAL A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 24.
J. & N. TAIT, BAILEY & GRANT’S
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS EXTRAVAGANZA,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
A FEAST OF MIRTH, MUSIC AND BEAUTY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
HE PLAYHOCSB, SVDNE Y
Next to Fire Station, Castiereagh Street.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8. Mating Monday at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS ALL DIGGERS’ COMPANY, in their
diverting 3 Acts of MUSICAL COMEDY,
MADEMOISELLE MIMI.
THE REAL CHARACTERS THEMSELVES.
Produced by Captain Keighley, M.C.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
IRTH BROS. LTD.’S CIRCUS.
THE HIPPODROME, lIAYMARKET.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinfies Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
THIS YEAR BIGGER, BETTER THAN EVER.
ALL NEW STAR COMPANY OF AMERICAN,
CONTINENTAL AND ENGLISH ARTISTS.
Children Half-price to Matinees.
Box plan at Nicholson’s and at Hippodrome.
u
N lON l* 1 C T U R E
T II IS A T R IS S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HISU MA.IISSTY’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j. c. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
TII IS ATU IS RO Y A 1., MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present London’s Most
Successful Comedy,
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. HI EI.ROU R N E.
Lessees: BAILEY k GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j & N. TAIT present the great Belasco play,
TIGER ROSE.
The Greatest Drama of a decade.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY’.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
W. M. FARNUM in
JUNGLE TRAIL.
THE VALLEY OF THE GIANTS,
From the Celebrated Novel of Peter B. Kyne.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE
in
THE LESSON.
Matinges daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gRITAKMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
jyj ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PA'IHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
THE
GLACI ARIUM.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING, 8.15 to 10.45.
Admission 1/-. Single Dances, 6d.
Book of 14 Dance Tickets, 3/6.
Reserved Tables, 2/6 extra.
-|- HE ALLAN WIEICIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
LUCK OF THE NAVY, THE ROTTERS,
A TEMPORARY GENTLEMAN.
CHRISTCHURCH, TO APRIL 24.
AUCKLAND, MAY 4 TO MAY 22.
Missing Friends.
WANTED. —Information regarding the whereabouts
of WILLIAM BROWN, who at one time followed
the occupation of a Baker in Brisbane. Supposed
to have left Australia for South Africa.
If this advertisement comes to the notice of the
said William Brown, he should communicate with
the Public Curator, Brisbane.
ROBERT LOUIS VEITCH.
tF this advei'tisement should be seen by the above
A- or by anyone who can give information as to him,
whether living or dead, he or his family (if any)
will hear of something to his or their advantage.
Robert Louis Veitch is believed to have left England
for Australia early in 1891. Communicate with:
PERCY UMNEY & SCORER, Solicitors, 16 The
Green, Richmond, Surrey, England.
Public Notice.
i \ IFT OF LAND-CLEARING INVEN-
tjT TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING,”
Griffith, N.S.W.
For Sale.
B OTTERS FOR SAFE . Two new Marine
Boilers, straight-through type, Bft. x 6in.
diameter, 17ft. Bin. long, with two furnaces, each ::ft.
4in. diameter by 6ft. 3in. long, having 200 rhree-
inch tubes in each boiler, built latest design by
renowned builders to Board of Trade Survey for Soii>.
working pressure; weight about 20 tons each, ('an
be used for vessel, mine, mill or factory. Immediate
delivery Sydney. Price £2250 each.
Apply “BOILERS,” Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery of the
County Palatine of Lancaster Manchester Dis-
trict dated the 9th day of December 1919 made in
the matter of the Estate of WILLIAM THORP the
younger deceased (whereby it was ordered that it
be referred to the Registrar to make an enquiry
whether Winifred Johnstone formerly Winifred Thorp
mentioned in the order was living or dead and if
dead when she died and who were her legal per-
sonal representatives and whether she was ever
married and if so when and to whom and whether
there were any and what children of such marriage
and when rh children were respectively born
and whether ikey are now living or dead) the said
Winifred Jo’ - >ne or if she is dead her legal per-
sonal repre e -1.: fives or other the persons referred
to in the :a' 1 Order are by their solicitors on or
before the 1( i day of July 1920 to come in and
prove thri ■ e ims at the Chambers of the Registrar
of the M no! '-ter District of the said Court of Chan-
cery of the >unty Palatine of Lancaster situate at
Duchy Cl::- hors 4 Clarence Street Manchester Eng-
land or in ~afault thereof they will peremptorily be
excluded i >:n the benefit of the said order.
Mond:r ' e 26th day of July 1920 at 11 of the
clock i . :e forenoon at the said Chambers is
appoint l : .or hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
The cni 1 Winifred Johnstone formerly resided in
Manclrster and was the daughter of the said Wil-
liam T!"p and is believed to have gone to Aus-
tralia i-i or about the month of August 1907. At
the da' ■ -he sailed there were living her husband
James Johnstone (since deceased) and one child
Jame hnstone junior now an infant.
Any person having information relative to the
said \Vi.iifred Johnstone or as to the date and cir-
cumstances of her death is requested to communi-
cate with the undersigned Solicitors.
Dated this sth day of March 1920.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
MINOR & CO.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
29 Fountain Street, Manchester, England.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £760,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. •• .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ..£39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
s *FtOU««O TOUR HEALTH
0? J.Collis Brownes
Cblorodyne
The Original and Onljr Gennlne.
TUB BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
mid iu the Cuiieli of BRONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVIiIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, S5l
lladt in England.
PICNIC RACE
TROPHIES
we have catered for extensively
for years. Year after year we have
supplied them to the leading clubs.
WHY ? Well, we put brains and
experience behind the catering for
them. Our large capital enables us
to manufacture and buy those we
cannot make at bedrock prices. Our
enormous output allows us to cut
prices to the bone. It also prevents
any old stock making. We deduct
special discounts to Race Clubs. We
only stock high-grade goods.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Fiarures. Cash Oily.
u>.
lAfp
VO*
Reliable fully-jewelled Lever Gold Watch, on Expanding
Gold Bracelet, from £7 /7 /-
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
hjlhjl
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Velvety Shaves with
The “PLUM”
v RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/C each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Navy’’ Ra*or has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
ĵl
ABBEY
SHOES
are distinctive in appearance, and fill
every possible demand in wearing and
comfort-giving qualities.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby
Hal., in a smart “made-to-order” style.
Price 67/6
In Tan Willow Calf, 60/-
Stocked in half-sizes and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
In these days we all have
to Keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sett.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
hjklhj
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.IV.
Brnnoßps in nil r.avts of tho wo-’ 1
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under *ll
conditions. To prove what we sta>e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOI)
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vlo.


Write
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management,
or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
— T W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. ‘
r
0^
O
BOORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
Swift & Company Idil.. tiM Airentv •'« no Clarence si
Sydney,
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.*’
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than the shillings you are
asked to pay. It is genuinely
welted—all “EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-day.
47/6 PAIR.
“EMBASSY” Shoes are
the Standard.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville.
LIMITED.
Brisbane.
Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Passing Show of 1920’’
Criterion "Xue aietpmg Beauty”
Royal Digger-Pierrots
Palace “Mother Hubbard - ’
The Playhouse “Mademoiselle Mimi”
Tivoli “Tails Up’
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
The Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COM'NO WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kissing Time’’
Royal “Tilly of Bloomsbury’’
King’s “Tiger Rose’’
Tivoli “His Little Widows”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum ... ving Pictured
Majestic ving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciaieium Dancing
——-—+■ ———
John Lawson, in his production of “The
Monkey’s Paw,” at Melbourne Princess's
on Saturday, challenged comparison with
Atholwood, who appeared as John White in
a previous version at the Royal. Looking
for easy laughs with gags and business, Law-
son makes White a sort of decayed Pierrot
whom the later events of the piece cannot
wholly depress. Certainly he behaves cir-
cumspectly when the tragedy arrives, but
the memory of his drollery is too strong for
the size of his bereavement to be appreci-
ated. Atholwood, who played with homely
naturalness all through, created a state of
mystery and tension that gave the eerie
denouement a powerful probability. As Mrs.
White Miss Lucille Sidney is right enough
until the end, where her grief grows shrill
and becomes burlesque. Sergeant-major
Morris, whom Arthur Sty an pictured with
easy matter-of-factness at the Royal, is
alleged by Guy Hastings to be a thirsty and
imaginative warrior who is only about a
couple of bottles from the horrors. Herbert
White, formerly done by Frank Harvey,
puts no great strain on the voice of R. W.
Newson. The Fuller management heav.ly
emphasises the creepy moments of the play
with blue lights and mournful music in the
orchestra, whilst the pale-green table-lamp
changes unaccountably to red when the
absurd paw is asked to prove its magic.
Also, the ghostly visitor, who knocks at
the door in the last scene, sounds like a
boozer who has been ejected from a pub and
is trying to boot his way back to happi-
ness.
At Melbourne Royal “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
is still getting its loudest roars from the
debased broker’s man with the performing
shirt-front and the iron-grey thatch that is
apparently rusting from grief. Russell, as
he is called when he is snatched from his
gruesome calling to pose as a butler, is
alleged to have been half of a panto elephant
in his youth, and there is certainly a hint of
the old impersonation in his ponderous strut
at Tilly’s tea-praty. Further close inspec-
tion suggests that he is carrying 3st. too
much for his clothes, and the marvel is that
Lady Mainwaring doesn’t collapse at sight
of the spectacle. A glimpse of Russell’s
socks alone should hurry a sensitive lady to
the nearest rest-home.
“Kissing Time” is all the time at Mel-
"Tiger Rose," at
Melbourne King's.
Reginald Goode as
Bruce.
bourne Majesty’s
just now. Drop in
casually during the
show and you will
find some over-
attached female
hugging another
cat’s semi-detached
hubby as if every
kiss was a passion-
ate experience. An
unsophisticated vis-
itor would swear
that it was an
American Divorce
College preparing
for the annual de-
monstration.
“As You Were”
finishes up at Mel-
bourne Tivoli to-
morrow. On Satur-
day comes “His
Little Widows,”
with a couple of
new stars, Rex
London and Kitty
Barlow, twinkling
in competition with
Vera Pearce.
** * *
_ Consistent prac-
tice with the heavy
weather in “Tiger
Rose” at Mel-
bourne King’s has
enabled the Taits
to quicken the
lightning and bring the thunder a couple of
notes nearer to the shattering bangs and
rumbles of a tropical disturbance. Also
the lightning has been schooled to flash more
vividly on the hero’s little journey to the
grandpa clock, and also occasionally spot-
light the groping bobby who was previously
denied sufficient publicity for one of his most
thrilling bloodhound acts. In most other
respects the play remains as before; but
the cast has suffered a minor change,
Richard Bellairs replacing Cyril Mackay,
who the other day fell wearily out of a part
that was too small to keep his talent em-
ployed.
Bill Farnnm is helping Hoyt’s (Mel-
bourne) to establish a corner in silver with
his supermannish work in “The Jungle
Trail.” Escaping the machinations of two
brother-explorers and cleverly dodging the
mad priests of a heathen temple, he proves
that no amount of black magic or mundane
wickedness can wipe him off the list of movie
.stars. A similar charmed life is borne by
Wallace Reid in “The Valley of the Giants,”
which pictures a rough romance in a forest
setting big enough to end the timber
shortage. Snowy Baker, recently at the
Town Hall, continues his free lessons in
bushranging in “The Shadow of Lightning
Ridge” at the Britannia. At the Melba
Eugene O’Brien, as the painter in “The
Perfect Lover,” demonstrates that faint
art can win fair ladies. The film is the
first of a Selznick set, and, apart from the
value of the principal man, is interesting
through the inclusion of four leading ladies.
* ?! St
“What haopened when the string broke?”
"Tails Up,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
A romantic lover of
1815 (steff
Macdonald).
That is a problem
the answer to which
is being not so much
actually revealed
as discreetly adum-
brated at Sydney
Criterion night by
night—to make no
mention of mat-
inees. The price
asked by the man-
agement for the in-
formation is modest
considering the pre-
vailing cost of liv-
ing ; and, anyhow,
a number of other
diversions are
thrown in for the
money.
* # # *
Emelie Polinl is
now saying fare-
well to Sydney at
the Palace in “The
Eyes of Youth.”
The “Mother Hub-
bard” panto., with
Barry Lupino as
the dame, will
crowd into the
little Pitt - street
theatre on Satur-
day.
Sydney is still
hurrying along to
Her Majesty’s to
be dazzled by “The
Passing Show of
1920.”
V },c sjs
“Tails Up” goes on merrily at the Tivoli.
The house is led by Billy Elliott, billed as
America’s Prime Minister of Mirth,” and
no Sydney man has yet arisen to launch a
want-of-confidence motion.
„ ‘‘Mademoiselle Mimi” is still attracting
Sydney audiences to the Plavhouse. next to
the head fire-station, in Castlereagh-street.
The Digger-Pierrots begin at Sydney
Royal on Saturday under J.O.W. manage-
ment. °
Wirths’ elephants are At Home at Sydney
Hippodrome every evening at eight, and on
Wednesday and Saturday afternoons at
•l* $ $
Mary Pickford still has time to live
the sorrows and triumphs of M’liss.
Perhaps Bret Harte did not intend
this little wild mountain girl to be
quite as smiling and curling as Marv
makes her, but the film man has caught the
Hret I-larte atmosphere so truly that Red
Gulch and its lawyer, who invites the wit-
nesses in the murder trial out to lunch with
him, are the only things that matter while
Sydney GJobe and Haymarket flicker the
sto ,- y Alice Brady puts a leading question,
as girl to girl in the advertisement of her
picture-story this week. Alice has punctured
the marr ed joy-rider who has grown too
flighty, and the only witness to the affair is
the wife of the dead one. It is here that
the film gets its title, “In the Hollow of Her
Hands, and the Crystal Palace makes the
whole thing clear to you. The Lyceum stars
an air raid, and the seven-reel uproar is
caused by an attempt to secure an army
contract. On the same bill Mabel Normand
takes a correspondence course in love. At
the Strand and Empress Elsie Janis is "A
Regular Girl,” and the screen seems sur-
prised : it had almost got to believe that
there wasn’t such a thing.
Frith had a real flight over Adelaide on
the opening day of the “Going Up” revival
at the Royal. The
jolly piece (which had
its first Australian
run at this house)
has been received with
the old favor. The
chief change is that
Grace Lavers
twinkles in Maud
Fane’s shoes. The
Australian gi r 1 is
coming o n rapidly;
her voice, though not
powerful, is used far
more artistically than
it was last year.
Millie Engler now
takes the Ediss parts,
and with success,
considering that
Nature has been good
enough to deny her
the face and voice of
that born low-com-
edian. Greene and
Miss Bradley sing
charmingly. Business
is big. So is that at
the Tivoli, with pan-
tomime. Elsie Parkes,
Daisy Yates and
Kelso Henderson pro-
vide some fine danc-
ing. and the voices—-
including Jack Can-
not's —are good. The
Majestic has mostly
new artists, of whom
George Boss at —and
all over—the piano is
an instant success.
In pictures West’s
have a strong pro-
gramme, with a Nat
Gould story of rac-
ing, films of sub-
marine sinkings,
“Tiger Rose” at
Melbourne King’s.
John Waller as
Dr. Dan.
and Al ee Brady in the always-popular
theme of twin sisters alike to the eye, but
different to the taste. Wondergraph has two
strongly dramatic stories, both very Ameri-
can ; one “In Missouri,” the other a Cosmo
Hamilton unhappy-marriage theme. Good
concerts are everywhere—notably piano re-
citals by Paul Howard. And the Peace Ex-
hibition, with its side-shows, is a host of
entertainments in itself.
$ :i: He jJ:
From an Adelaide critic:—
Bernice Edwell, of Victoria, has a pleasant collec-
tion of miniatures at Preece’s Gallery. She has some
water-colors, too, but they don’t matter. The minia-
tures are pood. Miss Edwell hardies bold colors
with astonishing effect considering the space
she has to swing them in. And she deserves praise
for her pluck in being almost the first miniature-
painter on record who did not flatter the model.
Indeed, she has had such con&istert bad luck with
her sitters that one wonders whether the gift of
beauty has been denied to her eye and brush.
“Old Pot”: In the first folio of Shakspeare
the first and second Gravediggers are
“clowns,” and the old comedy merchants
clowned the parts. I have seen the
first Gravedigger doff as many as 20 waist-
coats in presence of a convulsed house.
Even singing has been interpolated. In a
collection of old English ballads “printed by
W. Parson, for F. Tonson, at Shakespear’s
Head over-against Catherine Street, in the
Strand, 1719,” there is “The Sexton’s Song,
sung by Ben Johnson in the Play of Ham-
let. Prince of Denmark, acting the Grave-
maker.” The first stanza of the 11 set to
music is:—
Once more to these arms mv lov’d Pickax and spade,
With the rest of the Tools that belong to my Trade;
1 that Buried others am rose from the Dead,
With a Ring, a Ring. Ring and a Dig, a Dig, Dig.
“A fellow-feeling makes us wondrous
kind”; so a little money-raising venture
carried through by the old ladies of the
Sydney Twilight Home on Saturday after-
noon was chiefly patronised by those who
had years ago said good-bye to youth. For
a few shillings weekly the fortunate score
or so of occupants of Twilight Home live
in delightful surroundings; hut it tnk«s
some money to keep it up, for the small
sums the dwellers are asked to pav do not
cover expenses. Hence the need now and
then to bring grist to the mill. Innes-Noad
was one of the very few men present: from
the beginning a few years ago he has
fathered the establishment. Business was
good, and very early in the afternoon the
o!d ladies were able to announce that they
were sold out, and would have something
over £125 to hand to those responsible for
the finances.
“MonkbarDs'*: So a Wagga (N.S.W.)
man has found £."00 in a picture bought long
ago for a few shillings. The central inci-
dent of Jerrold's play, “The Rent Day,” is
something like this. Hey wood is distrained
on for rent. He and the bailiff tug at a
dearly-beloved armchair, which breaks, and a
lot of banknotes tumble out.
“Henry Clay” enters a protest:—
Recently in London Lowell Thomas, a Yank, was
making a pot of money out of pictures called
“Allenby in Palestine.” I had been in Palestine
with Allenby and also with his predecessor Murray,
and went along to see and hear the story. The
programme consisted of Australian official films taken
by Hurley, a 1.1 of colored “still” pictures of no
particular interest, and an inaccurate story told
through a showman’s nose. Though the running fire
of comment was sufficient to drown the noise of the
machine, the Light Ilorse was mentioned only twice.
Various exploits of the British were extolled, but
the Aussies were not credited with doing anything
at aIL Even the charges that made the Y.M.C.A.
famous in the Jordan Valley weren’t refefred to.
The story stopped just after the fall of Jerusalem,
though the nasal spruiker did indicate that Feisal
captured Damascus. How should he know that the
3rd L. H. Brigade had bought all the graphs in
Damascus while Feisal was still flogging his jaded
nags northwards? That Hurley was responsible for
the films was certainly mentioned on the expen-
sive programme in very small print; but his name
did not come from Thomas’s nose once. How did
this man get hold of these official pictures, and is
it nobody’s business in London to see that the Digger
gets a fair deal? There is Australia House, of
course; but that is a mere haunt of sleep, super-
ciliousness and ignorance, decked with war pictures
and back numbers of official reports. Andrew Fisher,
old and hopeless, doesn’t hold up the case of Aus-
tralia in the press, and he doesn’t advertise it at
the “festive board” or elsewhere. When there is
anything to do Hughes or Cook or Watt is sent
to do it. AhndTew doesn’t even float the country’s
loans: the Commonwealth Bank looks after that.
And it is even more disheartening to know that
when Fisher is finished with Cook or some other
burned-out cinder will be sent there to end his
career.
“Midchannel”: Can anybody give a rea-
son for the Firm’s adherence to the barrel-
organ variety of grand opera (e.g., Verdi's
“II Trovatore”) when there are other much
more beautiful works on hand? Verdi has
had his day. At the Metropolitan Grand
Opera House, New York, I noticed that;
Puccini was easily first favorite—and
deservedly so. This composer has kicked
over the traces that held Verdi, Bellini,
etc., and has introduced an entirely new
style. In the season in N.Y. no week ever
passes without a performance (sometimes
two) of “Bohbme,” “Butterfly” or “La
Tosca.” Puccini has composed another
opera. “La Rondine,” quite the equal of
any of the other three. He composed it in
1917. It has not been performed here at
all, yet the scores are available. I have
one. The cast is small. On December 14.
1918, I witnessed the first performance on
any stage of three new one-act operas by
Puccini called “II Tabarro,” “Suor Angelica”
and “Gianni Sehicchi.” They were given
a great reception. The scores of these are
to be had in Sydney. There is only one
thing to be said of the music. It is thor-
oughbred Puccini. No other guarantee is
necessary. Why are we kept so frightfully
behind the times? The material is in the
company here, and now that 25 p.c. has been
added to the prices of sehts the management
might do something to justify the rise.
From, a Melbourne connoisseur :
The fact that the National Gallery trustees have
been charged 7000 guineas and more for a picture b.v
J. M. W. Turner is rather astounding in face of the
fact that Turner’s oil paintings are bound to decline
in value as they fade and crack. Everybody interested
in paintings knows that Turner bequeathed two of
his pet landscapes to the British Gallery with the pro-
viso that they should be hung next to two of Claude
Lorraine’s. To-day the two old Claudes look
fresh and young and brilliant beside the ageing
Turners. Time is no friend to the famous English
landscape painter. The pigments he used were not
of the best, and although “Walton Bridges,” the
recent costly purchase for Melbourne Gallery, is not
cracked, it is undoubtedly a somewhat faded old
thing. All the same, “Walton Bridges” in oil,
although it dates back to the artist’s younger days, is
better worth 7000 guineas than the same artist’s
“Okehampton Oastle” in water-color is worth the
1100 guineas or so paid for it some years back. The
old-fashioned water-color, with its oleographic effect
and crude suggestion of rabbit-shooting in the centre
of it, was a worse bargain than the little Corot at four
times the money, and possibly the huge lump of
money paid for “Walton Bridges” is nearer the art-
market value of the goods to-day than the cost of
even the Corot “Bent Tree” is. The man who plays
with Felton Bequest money in Europe hardly deserves
all the blame he is getting for his purchases. A
Madox Brown picture, “Haidee and Juan,” will
serve as a corrective to the same artist’s large and
uncalled-for expression of art pedantry, entitled “The
Baptism of Edwin,’’ which never should have been
hung in a public gallery to scare away the Philistines.
And if “The Garden of Pan” by Burne Jones shows
just as much straining after the ultra-unconventional
as Madox Brown's work, it is nevertheless powerful
and beautifully harmonious, in an aesthetic way of
speaking. I predict that “The Garden of Pan” will
gain value with age like rich red wine.


lhjl
MURDOCH’S
“ARMOURITE”
BOOTS
will Outwear
Two Ordinary
Pairs!
To ensure lasting wearing service and economy in price
purchase a pair of “ARMOURITE” BOOTS. Obtainable
only from Murdoch’s in Park St., Ltd. The soles are
tanned by the secret * "ARMOURITE process, which
toughens the leather and gives TWICE THE WEARING
SERVICE. Test them; their comfort and durability is
their best advertisement.
IN BLACK, 35/6.
In black box calf or tan willow hide, derby
shape, as illustrated, with or without toe-cap.
IN TAN, 34/6.
When ordering by post, write to DESK R, and mention size required.
We pay the postage anywhere in Australia.
MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST
LTD., SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
4 Records 4
I(MNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41- '
EACH.
Some 10-inch Double-sided
ALL BRITISH COLUMBIA RECORDS.
4!- each.
( Tevlnsky at the Wedding, Fart- 1 Julian Rose
2893 { Levin sky at the Wedding, Fart 3 Julian Rose
i TV’Fvervthinir The Unity Quartette
1 gonna Keep ’em down on the Farm? The Unity Quartette
3870
3885
2891
3887
( st Marv’s The Unity Quartette
j Tramp, Tramp/ Tramp upon the High why.. The Unity Quartette
, T „ , Prince’s Orchestra
~ 570 { March o* Tittle Tead Soldiers'!!!.'.! Prince ’ s Orchestra
3530 { xhe ' Sparrow ' Prince’s Orchestra
{bow tJ Bens rorn !:::::::::::::::::::::::::: SS IKSfs,
; Tales of Hoffmann (Offenbach). Fart 1-Barearolle. g*rt
.. T „ , lnnM „ mobile” Hughes Macklin, tenor
3889 { MarttanaThere is a Flower that Bloometh Hughes Macklin, tenor
3863 {Berceuse de Jocelyn U. WanVick-Evans, ’cello
2710 { A Broken Doll Chas. Osborne, baritone
2713 i Hawaiian Medley Gnitar Dl,et
««!£„£. io ™Mn° V..::::::::::;:::::::::: m lss D ai S)
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dating House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo AVerthelm Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. AV.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., AVakefleld & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —AVebley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.— Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
wgm
'~*ah>. ..
.
■■
\
H
a
m
i =
rtf
* : ■ -. mt&*oSo3
CARBON CAST STEEL.—Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.— HEAT-
TREATED.” —For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
Listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
>Steel
Castings
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria. Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARI STREET, BRISBANE.


Cocoanut Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonfuls make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oilinesk. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffv, appearing tq be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
fet colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
ut be sure it’s “colinated.” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oii, as recommended above.
PAIN VANISHES! CORNS LIFT OUT
AFTER FEW DROPS.
Let To-day’s Corn Pain be Your Last Corn Pain.
Lift Any Corn or Callous Out with Finger-tips.
Wonderful! Girls ! Save it a Corner on Dressing-stand.
V'flsTi
No bunkum! No bother! Corns,
callouses—hard or soft—sore or
sensitive—all yield and loosen
and lift off—absolutely pain-
lessly.
This newly-found com-
pound is named Frozol-
Ice, and is still another
use of that great medi-
cal discovery ‘'ether.”
Stop at any chemist’s for
a little bottle of Frozol-Icc,
costing but trifle, but which is ample
to free the feet from each and every
corn and callous.
Apply some drops on to a delicate
! corn or callous. Like a flash the soreness
vanishes, and soon the corn or callous peels
right off with the finger-tips.
Frozol-Ice is absolutely non-irritant, doesn’t
even inflame the surrounding healthy flesh.
Just fancy! No agony at all. no sting or sore-
ness while using, or afterwards, simply a
shrivelling, drying up of corns and callouses.
Girls! Save a corner on your dressing-
table for Frozol-Ice, and never be the “wall-
flower” of the ballroom again. Just some
drops of Frozol-Ice when corns begin aching.
Pain disappears—corn dies!
True F,rozol-Ice is flattered by worthless
imitations. Avoid them by insisting on the
green label.
Why Physicians
Advise Magnesia
For Acid Digestion.
Thousands of people whose stomachs
troubled them after eating have found that by
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in a half-glass of hot water after meals they
can do away with pepsin »pills and other
digestive aids, and can still be able to eat
heartily of whatever foods they please, and
have no stomach trouble afterwards. Physi-
cians say that hot water forces a much
needed blood supply to the stomach, while
Salix Magnesia is undoubtedly the best, safest
and most powerful neutraliser of stomach
acids that can be found. A single teaspoonfu!
will sweeten the food contents of a sour. acid,
burning stomach in five minutes by the watch,
and natural digestion will follow without pain
or uncomfortable feeling of any kind. Com
tinu»*d use of Salix Magnesia 'does not
weaken natural digestion, and it is perfectly
safe to use at any time. It can be had at
almost any chemist’s (in powder or com-
pressed tablets form!, but be sure it is Salix
Magnesia you are getting. Do not use other
forms of magnesia for this purpose.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“S.S.”: The assertion of Billy Hughes
that he was once a super in George Rig-
nold’s company and had the honor of being
trampled on by the heavy lead links up with
one of Bert Bailey’s stories of Handsome
George. Rignold w. s playing “Henry V.,”
and, caracoling on the field of battle after
Harfleur, accidentally walked on to the
stomach of a slain warrior. The dead man
arose into a ha ’ '-sitting position, and his
sudden burst of eloquence was garnished
with some of the most expressive adjectives
in the language. For just a moment the
eloquence of the <#rpse and the joyous
uproar it provok'd in the gallery non-
plussed the leading i nuyj* then, recollecting
himself. he raised a i -vrfißnfc, palm, and com-
manded in a deep, rich, sepulchral voice:
Peace, perturbed spirit, peace!” and strode
off.
“MADEMOISELLE
MIMI” AT
SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE.
Lindsay Kemble
in a “staff”
sketch.
“J.F.H.” (London) ; Dolores Drummond,
now living in retirement in a picturesque
London suburb, has been receiving congratu-
lations and good wishes on entering her 87tli
.rear. She went to Australia back in the
’fifties to make pictures of the mining-camps
in Ballarat and Bendigo. In Melbourne she
discovered that she had dramatic talents,
or, rather, George Coppin and G. V. Brooke
discovered it. The brilliant but bibulous
Brooke made her his leading lady, and she
distinguished herself alike in Shakspeareau
and mirthful comedy productions. After a
useful Australian apprenticeship she re-
turned to London, where she had a further
stage career of close on half a century in
connection with Irving, Tree, Wyndham,
Bancroft and other stars of the first magni-
tude. Dolores must surely be the sole sur-
vivor of the players who supported G. V.
Brooke in his Australian tours. Her son,
G. R. Sprague, is London’s leading theatri-
cal architect; most of its present-day play-
houses have been built from bis designs.
“R. 8.” (S’Africa) : Allan Doone has
been filling his pockets in the principal
towns here. It is years since Irish drama
has been played in this country, and the
brogue pulled like 50 elephants. Yet
S’Africa is not a place where the Irish
succeed well. It. is the Scotch and the
Jews who play the lead —at any rate, in
the tragedy of money-making.
“M. 8.”; Comedian Bert Clarke has been
compelled to leave Mclntosh owing to ill-
health, and is booked to sail with his wife
and children on the Makura on July 27.
He needed a rest, and though he hasn’t long
left the “As You Were” co. his health has
already improved. Before leaving for Eng-
land, via America, he will visit the Blue
Mountains to recuperate. As soon as he
recovers he will continue the work of writ-
ing the music for a comedy. The numbers
I have already heard display both taste and
ingenuity,
“Fax” : The comedy co. that Courtneidge
is bringing to Australia will probably in-
clude George Bishop, youngest son of Alfred,
and therefore first cousin to Marie Lohr.
Kate Bishop, whom “Daddy” Lohr married
in her early Australian days as George Rig-
nold’s leading lady, is Alfred’s sister.
“Lidvre” (from London) : Saw Mrs. Pat-
rick Campbell last night at the Aldwych
in a revival of G.B.S.’s “Pygmalion,” in
which she shocked
London six years
ago by uttering the
most-used adjective
in the language. I
was very disap-
pointed. Mrs. Pat
was unable to look
less than 40, and
so was a much too
ripe Eliza Doo-
little. In the
famous drawing-
room scene she
over-acted dread-
fully, making Eliza
so unsure of her
pronunciation, and
especially of her as-
pirates, that Pro-
fessor Higgins’s
question to his
mother, “Will she
do?” at the end of
the scene, sounded
absurd. The suc-
cess of the evening
was made by Frank
Bertram as Alfred
“Mademoiselle Mimi ,”
at Sydney Playhouse.
George Jennings as
Tony, the Swiss
mountaineer.
Doolittle, the philosophic dustman. He is
revealed to London as a great comedian.
r “N.”; On the Sunday following the recent
N. S. Wales elections, a gloomy Premier and
a consoling Treasurer paid a by no means
ceremonious visit to H. D. Mclntosh’s home
at Bellevue Hill. When the party broke up
at the gate it was a much more jovial
Treasurer who remarked: “Well, Chief,
you’re on one sure winner, anyhow.” “What’s
that?” asked the Premier. “A Tivoli life-
pass,” replied Fitzpatrick, as he got into the
car.
“W.J.P.F.”: Until a recent Saturday
matinee young Browning Mummery had
been heard in small roles only, though he
always carolled beautifully the Harlequin’s
Serenade s in “Pagliaeci” and otherwise
showed that he possessed a voice of unusual
purity. His opportunity came on this Satur-
day, and as Pinkerton in “Madame Butter-
fly” he simply electrified a select audience of
music-lovers. It was delicious to hear this
young Australian boy, with a handsome stage
appearance, sing the difiicult vocal part with
a voice of such power and purity of intona-
tion as has seldom been heard on the operatic
stage in this country. His high C at the
end of the first act came out full and
true with that of Amy Castles, and left
enthusiasts longing to hear his high C in the
Salve Dimora in “Faust,” which breaks most
of the tenors of the company.
“B.”: Too many laurels spoil the star.
When the J.C.W. grand-opera people re-
turned from their fine season in Maoriland,
one of the Australian girl principals who
have done so well jolted the management
with a demand for 100 per cent, increase in
salary. The management decided it couldn’t
be done, so there was a stormy packing-up
of music and a temperament flew the rails.
The trouble about these firework displays is
that in Australia there is never another
grand-opera management waiting round the
corner for the dissatisfied star. There isn’t
even a screechophone co. eager to make re-
cords.
"Youngest Critic” : Flora Graupner’s final
appearance was in “Djin Djin,” not “Matsa,”
as stated by “The Bulletin’s Oldest Critic.”
“Djin Djin” was the first of the two extrava-
ganzas produced by Williamson and Mus-
grove in 1896, and “Matsa” followed in
1897. There the experiments ceased and
we returned to imported panto hash.
“75”; Bert Levy, who is leaving the U.S.
to fill a London engagement, expects to be
in Australia in July, The main object of
the visit is to see his mother, but it is un-
likely that Albert will miss the chance to
combine bishness with duty. It is eight
years since he was last here, but the same
old lightning-sketch turn still rakes in the
shekels.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Our maddest, most
incoherent and irresponsible of entertain-
ments is “Pretty Peggy” at the Prince’s —
a weird kaleidoscopic combination of panto-
mime, melodrama, burlesque, mimicry and
variety turns. That clever and vivacious
Australian couple, Lorna and Toots Pounds,
supply the mimicry, burlesque and tremen-
dously energetic dancing. They give a capi-
tal skit on Oscar Asche and Lily Brayton
in “Chu Chin Chow.” The Times calls it
“one of the best things of the evening,” and
of a Chinese interlude the Daily Telegraph
says “they gave us one of those whirlwind
dances in the performance of which they
are probably unrivalled.” There is a
racing scene and an attempted doping of the
favorite. But that sort of thing isn’t popu-
lar in London, which recalls a disastrous
occurrence some years ago when a frightened
animal leaped into the orchestra.
“0.K.”: A change on one of the Mel-
bourne papers was signalised recently by a
different tone towards a German musical
identity whose performances had previ-
ously been lauded far beyond the skies. With
the elimination of German-born citizens from
the fraternity of musical lawgivers on the
press, and the slow decline of German
domination in the ranks of musical teachers
and “barrackers” at large, Australia should
presently arrive at something like the truth
concerning public performances of German
professors. Hitherto the work of visiting,
or resident, foreigners from the Fatherland
has been appraised by their co-nationalists.
Germans were invariably lauded by Ger-
mans, naturalised or otherwise, even as Ger-
man medical men in this country got their
reputations through the concerted praises
of their compatriots. Moreover, instrumental-
ists from other lands than der Vaterland were
likely to be belittled unless their reputations
were world-wide. One way and another Aus-
tralia has been much imposed upon by musical
critics and quidnuncs, and Victoria, which
used to get all its musical ideas from the
dictum of the Germanised Marshall Hall,
was the most imposed upon State of all.
“Ox”: A man’s good work lives after him.
Sydney Valentine, who died dramatically
after strenuously fighting for a minimum
wage for English actors, left only £3SUO
behind. The profession has provided his
widow with £3OO in cash, and after a year
has passed will hand her £3 per week—
the Valentine minimum salary—for life.
Arthur Bourchier, Oscar Asche, Gerald du
Marnier and Lilian Braithwaite were among
the most lime-lit contributors to the
memorial.
Lady Bancroft was 81 on February 12.
Her last stage appearance was made two
years ago, when she announced the receipts
at a charity matinee.
Dropped out for good recently, Harry
Davis, an Irish newspaper man better
known as Owen Hall, under which name
he wrote the “books” for “Florodora,” “The
Geisha” and “The Gaiety Girl.” He was
only two days ahead of Reginald de Koven,
for whom he had provided several stories,
and who wrote for one of his relatives
(Jessie Bartlett Davis) the famous “Oh,
Promise Me.”
The Actors’ Benevolent Fund in London
has been able to get managers generally to
accept a suggestion—said to have been first
made by Charles Wyndham’s widow', Mary
Moore —that every play reaching 100 per-
formances should give the fund a matinee
as a benefit. The first to oblige was the
lady herself with “Lord Richard in the
Pantry,” of which Cyril Maude and Connie
Ediss are the stars. The second was “The
Merchant of Venice,” which, is running as
briskly as though it were a novelty.
“T. 0.1.”: The best-advertised Press v.
Stage cricket match ever held in Sydney
was played nearly 50 years ago. The
Prince of Wales Opera House, on the site
of the Theatre Royal, was destroyed by fire
on January 6, 1872. Several benefits were
given in aid of the distressed and burnt-out
actors and stage-hands. Amongst the efforts
to raise money was this cricket match,
which took place on the then popular Albert
Ground, Redfern, on January 16. The
Press representatives were: Alfred Bennett
(Evening News), J. Butler (meaning
Grosvenor Bunster), Walter Hampson
Cooper (dramatist), G. Eld, J. T B. Gibbs
W. H. Hicks (Sydney Bunch), R. F. Pick
ering, P. Proctor (Sydney Mail), Horact
Rogers (S. M. Herald), I. R. Robinson
Harold W. H. Stephen and Garnet Walch
The Stage: William Andrews, J. J. Bart
lett, J. Bennett, W. G. Carey. George Dar
rell, Harry Douglas. John Howe. W. J,
Holloway, W. H. Metcalfe, Sam Poole, J
H. Rainford and Charles Young. The press
men have all gone west, and of the stage
hands only George Darrell and W. J. Hollo
way, with perhaps W. 11. Metcalfe, remain.
“C. Ockney”: Seymour Hicks, the aspir-
ing (and perspiring) light comedian of the
“Tails Up," at
Sydney Tivoli.
Billy Rego sings of a
rheumatic in an attic.
old London Gaiety
days, is, afte’t
nearly 30 years
back again at th
bouse of the same
name. Hicks, wh.
is now adviser-in-
chief to Sir Alfred
Butt, who runs
the Gaiety and
lmlf-a-score other
theatres, is repro-
ducing “The Shop
Girl,” the very first
of the George Ed-
wardes “musical
comedies” ■ and it
was cabled th e
other day (Heaven
knows why!) that
produc tiou ex-
penses are four
times and current
expenses five times
greater now than
a t “T Ii e Shop
Gi r l’s” original
pres entation in
1894. It was in
this piece, by the
way, that Seymour
interpolated the
classic ditty “Her
Golden Hair Was
Hanging Down
Her Back,” intro-
duced to Australia by one of the “Sisters”
Leamar. Ivan Caryll, whose “Kissing
Time” is doing so well in Melbourne, was
responsible for the rest of the numbers.
“ 'Fate knocks at the door,’ cried
Beethoven, as he let these terrible intro-
ductory notes thunder their awe-inspiring
fiat. The crisis is there. The hero-to-be
is rudely shaken from his innocent dream
of life. The supreme moment is upon him;
he is called! In the depths of his soul
the awful conviction trembles and palpitates.
‘ls this so? Must this be?’ cries the Hamlet
within him; note that extraordinary ques-
tioning pause of the violins. ‘Say, why is
this? YVherefore? What should we do?’”
This is not an extract from a thrilling novel-
ette. It is a descriptive paragraph from
the Programme of the first Free Sunday
Concert given at Melbourne Town Hall.
“Norbell”: “The Lark’s” par about the
raffle-promoter who canvassed for sub-
scribers at a funeral (B. 8/4/’2O) reminds
me of a Dan Barry performance. Hfe
advance rep. had met too many friends and
neglected to bill Mansfield (Vic.). When
Dan and his bushrangers arrived they were
quite unexpected, and no one had been
warned of the proposed dramatic treat. For-
tunately there was a big funeral there that
day, and everyone was in town. Barry
went out to the cemetery, mingled with the
crowd, and after the last sad rites were
over coyly handed a dodger to each mourner.
The “Famous _ Dan Barry Combination”
showed that night in “the moving drama
‘Back from the Grave.’ ”
THE JAZZ BAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’S tinkling rubbish, I am told
By Wag-norites, and though
I moot it with suspicion cold
It never leaves me so.
liib, bant
It has no higher purpose than
A shiekered Ethiopi-an.
Raves it where we live, and starts
Corpuscles about our hearts;
Kicking high in feathers gay.
Little devils fond and fey.
Capering in paint and ruffles
Maniacal double-shuffles.
/tip, boon !
In a tick I’m half a coon,
Every thew and muscle skipping,
Every drop of blood is tripping.
Crash, bang l
Metals clang.
Down the stairs with crash and jangle
Falls a nigger and a mangle.
Toot, toot!
Bang your boot
Through the hundred-guinea glasses.
Red the lass who smiles and passes.
Monkeys, little lambs, and asses—
Up and down the room we’re thrown,
Feathers in a whirlwind blown;
Bubbles, beads ahd blue balloons.
Shrill the clamor of bassoons.
Silk and flowers and fire commingle,
Pulses bolt, and hair roots tingle—
Even whiskers chant the jingle.
Tin-pan battle,
Moos of cattle,
Crash of glass and sudden fuss
Where the motor rams the ’bus.
Then falls the silence. Wholly spent
In dim retreat I stand,
All breathless, wet, and penitent,
A bond-slave to the band!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
THE ETERNAL FLO.
(Being a reverie due to the old hands’ discussion
of Flo Graupner.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your Flo to us is but a name,
A group of letters in a word;
Y'e recognise it is a shame
That our young blood will not be stirr’d
By the sweet dust of your old flame.
Flo Graupner? Well, she may have been
A dainty lady t in her day.
In grace and manner quite a queen
And with a very charming way—
But then, remember, yon were green!
We have Dot Brunton and Maude Fane —
Off-hand I choose two maids we love—
But you would smile in grave disdain
If we should put their charms above
The Flo you saw in beauty reign.
I did not know her? That is so.
Quite frankly I’ll admit you’re right.
But do the eyes that looked on Flo
Still see as straight and clear and bright
The girls who gild to-day’s gay show?
VICTORIA.
DALE.


rw/.
'-J
n:
■{. '• *• ' • ..
rCf 7 ■
Finest Quality Kej'less Clock, 30-hour, £C/5/«;
8-day, £B/5/-; Luminous Dial, 10/- extra.
LEATHER FOLDING ttOCKS.
Drummonds’ selection of Leather Folding Clocks includes
a wide variety of designs in Fine Hogskin, Morocco,
Crocodile or Suede Cases. The movements are highest-
grade manufacture, and may be had in thirty-hour or
eight-day, with plain or luminous dial. No clock leaves
the establishment without being tested and adjusted,
and accuracy may be relied upon.
ILLUSTRATED WATCH & CLOCK CATALOGUE POST FREE.
WBm. JBrummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Gillette
f fillt
1
WE are pleased to announce
that, owing to a re-
adjustment, applied as
from Monday, April 1 9, the prices
of Gillette Safety . Razors and
Blades are now quoted as under:
GILLETTE STANDARD SET.
Heavy triple Silverplated Razor
and one dozen Gillette Blades
in neat leather case
28,6
GILLETTE BLADES
6/6 per dozen
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Wholesale Agents, Sydney.
FOR
MEN
PYRAMID
HANDKERCHIEFS
vttSH
ONE OF THE
TOOTAL
GUARANTEED
AV
IV/TEN find that All-white Pyramids are the
**•*■ absolute equal of the world-famous color-
border Pyramids in quality, fineness, durability,
and value. Pyramid Handkerchiefs Eire always
pleasant to use, and the more often they are
washed the more are you satisfied with their sound,
lasting service. See Pyramid label on each.
White and color border
designs, all hemstitched.
THE TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
* Each carries name on selvedge
TOOTAL CLOTH: —The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric, equal
to stilt velvet for graceful draping. Rich colors that will not rub
off. In Plain and Cord. 27 inches wide.
TARANTULLE (Regd)—The quality Cotton Fabric for
Lingerie and Baby wear. In three weights—4o inches wide.
NAMRIT:—The Indelible Voile In printed designs and self-
colors. 40 inches wide.
TOOTAL SHIRTING—for all hard-wearing purposes 32 inches
wide. Woven indelible color stripes
TOOTAL PIQUE White and indelible colors 43/44 inches
wide.
TOBR\LCO (Regd.):—The Cotton Wash-Dress Fabric in world-
wide use Self-white and indelible colors, 27/28 inches wide.
All genuine Lissue and
Pyramid Handkerchiefs
carry name label on each.
Buy none without .
IN ladies’ handkerchiefs there is no
better value than All-white Lissues.
Their daintiness is the more remarkable
because they wash and wear so long.
For charm, service, and value they have
only one rival—the world-famed color-
border Lissues. Lissue label on each.
Dainty White and
fashionable border colors.
r
aC.
E
LIS
HANDKERCHIEFS
FOR LADIES
-t\SH
ONE OF THE
TOOTAL
GUARANTEED
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY, LIMITED. MANCHESTER. ENGLAND.
All Communications to —
MELBOURNE, G.P.0., Box 1035.
jklhj


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS. LlfllTED. Reclfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROIMB ?
LEWIS &WMITTY MAKERS
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOR INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANAEMIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
v/
Pleasant and
Exhilarating.
(Registered.)
A.B
A.B
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 3M-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W, and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a 5 ttle more than Melbourne Prices.
A £cwt. difference between the top and the
bottom horses in City Tatt.’s Cup, a mile and three
furlongs, run at Rundwiek on Saturday, made a
boil-over look probable. Kennaquhair had been
handed lOst. 21b. Bunting, who ran Poitrel to a
head at Rosehill three weeks before in a mile and
a quarter, was next on the list with Bst. 21b; the
other six, including Sandbee (7st.), thinned dow-n to
(ist. 71b. As Kennaquhair finished sixth in the
Rosehill race, in which Bunting borfe Bst. lib.,
arithmetic pointed to the big horse being on a bad
wicket. Likewise it pointed to Sandbee, who, having
finished a good fifth at Rosehill with Bst. lib., had
now dropped 151 b., being well in the running. What
the affair did was to establish for about the mil-
lionth time that weight doesn’t matter much to a
first-class horse in racing condition among a crowd
of the next class. Kennaquhair reached the straight
with his ponderous cargo seven horses back and
then started travelling in earnest. When they hit
the last furlong he was a couple of lengths from
the front, and as soon as Wood showed him the
flail it was all over and the crowd rushed to collect.
Sandbee finished very quickly. She lost half a
dozen lengths at the barrier, and but for this might
have justified the arithmeticians and won instead
of losing by a touch. Kennaquhair started at seven
to four and the whole population was on him.
* * * *
If they lbfive a reasonably good three-year-
old beyond the Murray next season the A.J.C. Derby
will probably go that way. A vast number of
youngsters have been raced this year at Randwick
and on the suburban courses around Sydney, and the
likely Derby animals among them look less numer-
ous than John Storey’s majority in N. S. Wales Par-
liament. And with one or two exceptions the best
of them have been raced off their legs. A strapping
youngster which has not been so treated is the
Achilles colt Waltea, who won lately at the
Hawkesbury and at the A.J.C. meeting on April
7, and finished the week by well licking a big field
in Tatt.’s Nursery. Saturday’s event was only five
furlongs; but as Waitea won in “1 (” with 9st. 51b,
and covered six furlongs in “124” with Bst. 101 b.
in the A.J.C. event, it may be seen that he can
■travel. But the Achilles family are more addicted
to being in a hurry when young than w-hen overtaken
by age.
# -* * *
The outbreak of derision at the leisurely
passage made by Poitrel, Kennaquhair and Millieme
in the A.J.C. Plate is more or less an annual affair.
It might be wise to change the distance. There
would certainly be no advantage in cutting the race
out and substituting a handicap over six furlongs,
even if it allured 25 more starters. The main
trouble seems to this page to be that the time limit
placed on the race if the full prize-money is wanted
is badly arranged as an incentive to expedition. A
letter scheme than that of allocating a time for the
complete journey would be to fix a time for the first
mile and a half; and as in the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdles the three miles is every year
covered at an average rate of less than 15jsec. a
furlong, there would be no harm in insisting upon
w.f.a animals with nothing to leap over doing half
the trip in a second a furlong slower. Once they
got that far on the passage the chance for loafing
would have evaporated.
* 5 * *
The 3ruin. 22Jsec. for this year's Sydney
Cup is a fresh cause for asking the why and where-
fore of so many Randwick records. What is the
explanation of Sydney Derby being, on an average, a
faster race than Melbourne Derby, contested by
practically the same horses, with the advantage of
another month’s growth? Why is the Metropolitan
Handicap a faster 12 furlongs, as a rule, than the
Caulfield Cup, and the Sydney record for a six-
furlongs sprint so much better than the Melbourne
best? One time there were shrewd supporters of
the theory that the right-side-in way of travelling
suited horses better than the Victorian order, and
explained the difference in time between A.J.C. and
V.R.C. Derby. These theorists were put to silence
by others who maintained that a difference in the
system of timing accounted for the difference in
times, and a lot of racegoers still hang on to this,
in ignorance of the fact that Gaunt, of Melbourne,
supplies the clock and the system at both courses.
A more generally accepted explanation nowadays is
that a smoother track and a clearer atmosphere
account for gees making faster times -over all dis-
tances at Randwick. But the simple truth can
probably be found in a story old enough to have
been forgotten by sports who heard it when they
were young. Long, long ago it was understood,
among people interested in track measurements,
that whereas Victorian racecourses were surveyed
from the outer rail, the Randwick course was sur-
veyed from three feet inside the rails, which made
Sydney Derby a 20 yards shorter 12 furlongs than
the Melbourne ditto. Now, how about it?
-»**•»
In a six-furlongs race at Moonee Valley
(Vic.) last week the mare Uska started at 20 to
one in a field of six, and won as she liked. The
trainer didn’t give Uska a hope because she was,
from the wise-men-of-the-turf’s point of view, not
“fit” enough for even a six-furlongs sprint. The
mare came only recently back to Melbourne, after a
spell in the country, and that’s why she did the
books a good turn, no doubt. Given plenty of
spell and precious little training, Uska will win
some more races at minor meetings.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Some semi-contemptuous com-
ments were passed at the time upon Sol Green’s
laying long odds on Artilleryman for the A.J.C.
Leger. Old racegoers professed to marvel at the
rich man’s greed for gold in risking £BOOO to win
two or three hundred, and horse reporters remarked
that Green, as an ex-bookmaker, ought to have
known better. Nobody gave the unwise Solomon
credit for any sporting sentiment. As a bookmaker
he was the importer and owner of Comedy King,
and as a breeder he is naturally struck on Comedy
King’s most famous son, and until the other week
wouldn’t hear of Artilleryman being beaten in a
w.f.a. race. The really surprising thing was not
that he chose to back his exalted opinion of his old
champion’s offspring, but that he never suspected
the colt of having gone stale. It is not as though
Artilleryman was thought to be the garaest and
best-tempered of gees, either. A year ago there
was an idea of having- him gelded for the good of
his racing career, and in his first five races this
season he didn’t run with the consistency of a
machine, anyhow.
* * * #
The Eurasian gelding Itetinite has been
purchased by a Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) sport. Before
coming to Brisbane Retinite won 47 races in North
Queensland. lie may race at unregistered meetings.
Vt * * * ’
That much-raced Adelaide Cup winner,
Prince Bardolph, found the Paddington Handicap
of one mile three furlongs at the Port Adelaide
races not quite far enough; he was running over
everything at the finish. In the Franklin Hurdles,
at the same meeting, Mount Miltsin, although giving
the second horse 231 b., was able to work into first
position in a field of 15.
Dr. ROY L. PARK, the top-notch
Victorian cricketer.
It would be interesting to see a meeting
at w.f.a. between the M.L. cracks Gloaming and
Amythas. It is hard to say which is first in popular
estimation. The latter has carried all before him
this season in both handicaps and at w.f.a., and, like
Gloaming, has seared away serious opposition. Un-
fortunately, Gloaming is being spelled on account of
a slight splint, and Amythas will be due for a rest
by the time the Welkin gelding is fit. In the
Trentham Gold Cup (two miles* w.f.a.) the only
horse that looked like extending him was Vagabond,
the New- Zealand Cup winner. However, he was
six lengths to the bad at the end.
They have some keen souvenir-hunters in
South Aus. That fine old hurdler Devron was killed
on the steeplechase course at Oakbank on Easter
Monday, and the body lay by the side of the track
till next day. Then it was found that all the
mane, all the tail, most of the teeth and three of
the hoofs had disappeared.
Racegoers in Adelaide are getting restive
under the new arrangements for traffic, which seem
to be based on the old English idea that a racing
man is a sportsman, and therefore doesn't care
what he pays. The Adelaide tramways now charge
4d. for the lid. ride to Victoria Park. Similarly,
though Morphettville is on the railway line to
Glenelg (return fare, Is. Id.), the ra'eegoer is
charged Is. 6d. to the course. The frugal-minded
book to one station further on, at normal fares, and-
get out at Morphettville.
* * * *
The Westralian four managed to scrape
home by one set in the match against the visiting
ERIC APPERLY.
N.S.W. amateur
golf champion.
N. S. Wales tennis
team. The Ma Staters
had a tail, Louden
and Cross being a
lone way below the
form of Horace Rice
and Coodman. Rice,
although a veteran —
he has played first-
cl ss tennis for over
25 years—is still a
great singles player. No
Westralian could take
even one set from him
in the inter-State
match or during the
extended competition
for the State singles
championship associ-
ated with the Kinp-’s
Park Club tournament.
The little man was
suffering from
a set with a
ptomaine germ: but
even with a tainted
sandwich on their side
the best of the local
men failed to beat him.
Westralians fancy that Eurythmic, owned
by Ernest Lee Steere, Chairman of the W.A.T.C., is
one of the best three-year-olds in the Commonwealth.
At the recent Elaster meeting: this colt, a son of
Eudorus, won the Osborne Stakes, one mile and
three furlongs, in 2min. 20^sec. —a new record for
the State. He started at even money and won on
the bit. Eurythmic now holds the State records for
five furlongs, a mile and three furlongs, and (with
Rivose, who deadheated with him in the Perth Cup)
two miles. The owner intends to rest the horse a
while and then send him east.
» ■* * *
The national demand for horseflesh adds
a special danger to a racing owner’s career in
France. A filly of much promise and great value
was lately missing from the horse-box between Paris
and the suburban meeting where she was to run.
The clues being fairly obvious, the local Sherlock
ran her down in a slaughter-house, just in time
to save her young life. She had been sold by the
thieves for the comparative trifle representing the
current value of meat on the hoof.
* * » *
Harry Hall, who was the first Australian
bookmaker to aeroolane to a racecourse, is a chemist.
His brother Charlie, who also wears a bag, was a
medical student; and in the ranks of Sydney Mac
Shortodds there are a parson’s son and a Cambridge
graduate.
* * * *
The long-expected happened in the G.P.S.
eight-oar championship on the Parramatta River
an Saturday. In past years the fixture was decided
in mid-week; and even then competitors squeezed
at their peril through a multitude of all sorts of
craft. This year there was a record entry of six
eights, and twice as many boats bobbed about and
narrowed the course. The inevitable crash
happened at the end of a very fine struggle. Choppy
wind and troubled water made the starter’s task
extremely difficult; and some of the lads were
nearly balf-an-hour in the bleak wind before the
gun sent them away to an excellent start. The first
mile saw Sydney Grammar take the lead with a
lou'g, swinging- action; after that other crews ranged
level in a dirtk'um tussle. Over the last half-mile
the shrill piping of Young Australia urged school-
mates to herculean effort, and the excited cox-
swains, hindered by swirling water and over-eagerness,
brought Sydney Grammar, C. of England Grammar
and Scots in a clash. The result was in doubt at
the time, though the winning-post was less than
100yds. away; and umpire Billy Middleton ordered
a re-row. There was no other way out.
Under better weather conditions on Monday
the re-row was finely fought. After an excel-
lent start, St. Ignatius and Sydney Grammar streaked
across the shimmering water, with the other four
boats nil within a coirple of lengths. The order
remained the same for over a mile; then by spurts
Sydney Grammar and Church of England Grammar
each enjoyed the lead. With the judge a few
hundred yards away, King’s from the southern posi-
tion came with a great finish, and won by a length
in Smin. 22sec., with Sydney Grammar and C. of E.
Grammar in the places. It was King’s first cham-
pionship, and sportsmaster T. Marks had the boys
in rare fettle. The winning crew averaged list. 61b.
St. Ignatius had an easy victory in the first fours
from King’s and Newington; and in the second
fours St. Joseph’s won very narrowly from Sydney
Grammar.
The N. S. Wales eight-oar crew for Bris-
bane gave an exhibition of blade-work on the Parra-
matt River on Saturday. They managed the troubled
water skilfully, and should be in fine form for the
Australian championship next month.
* «• * #
The final round of Sydney grade cricket
started under wintry conditions on Saturday’. ’Var-
sity began with a sporting chance of wresting the
premiership from Wests with an outright win. With
only one real bowler in Trenerry, they took a big
risk in putting in a strong batting side. Wests, hal -
ing nothing to gai.n by brilliant play, dug them-
selves in and when stumps were drawn had lost
seven for 252. Every batsman shaped with confi-
dence, and K. B. Docker (71) and I’ratten (53)
were top-scorers. They had a particularly keen field
to deal with, too. The bowling was on the spot,
but not difficult. Wests look safe. The rest of tin-
matches were contested in a serious mood by the
average-hunters alone. Sydney scraped together onlv
140 against Petersham; Petes answered with five
for 101. Tozer, of Gordon, showed a return to form
against Balmain. He was after the elusive fourer
to complete his hundred when he missed a straight
! un. Folkard bowled a fine length for Balmain.
His five wickets cost 72 runs, a third of which were
due to bad fielding. C. Cumberland put up the
respectable score of 236 against Glebe (Kellewav
absent). Middle Harbor, with its team of dud bats-
men, got 241 against Paddington. Roy Minnett
opened his shoulders, as in days of yore, and got
79. Winning, as usual, was Pad.’s most dependable
bowler, his five wickets costing 13 runs apiece.
Norths have seven wickets in hand and have half
Waverley’s score. Yet, should Punch go cheaply,
anything may happen. The Boneyard batsmen failed
signally, Pite, Hendry and Levy giving mediocre
exhibitions. Frendin secured the best average for
Norths with four for 22.
“F. Croson”: If those wiseacres who run
Victorian big cricket are capable of learning let them
listen. On Good Friday and Easter Monday—Satur-
day was a blank through rain—the Fitzroy Foot-
ballers C. C. and the Havelock C. C., the latter being
another name for South and Port footballers, met on
Richmond (Vic.) ground to decide the destination of
the Vic. junior pennant, and by three o’clock on
the second day the flag was won. But it was chain
pagne while it lasted. The ’Roy men, batting first,
lost 7 for 79; then Fontaine (102 n. 0.) and Shaw
(40) stood up and pasted the bowlers, and 225 wa-
ffle tally for the innings. Havelock then lost two
for 30. On Monday Ryan (6 for 56) and McLennan
(3 for 23) ran through the side—llo in all—and on
the follow-on Loll (4 for 15), McLennan (3 for 34)
and Ryan (2 for 24) polished Havelock off again for
99, ’Roy thus winning by an innings and 16 runs.
On Friday some 5000 reckoned they had got the
worth of their £llO paid in the aggregate; while
on Monday about 3000 were satisfied to part up £BO.
The real joy came when a few hundreds of these
latter stepped across the park to the M.C.C. ground ai
4 p.m. and paid good coin to see Melbourne and
North scuffle for the district pennant. They had
hardly got past the turnstiles when the umpires said
the light was poor and drew the stumps, though the
other semi-final was caried on till 5.30 at a ground
little more than a mile away. And of course the\
got no money back.
* * # *
“Sixth Form”: The rumors which heralded
Trumpet’s approach, while ho was yet slogging
the runs for Crown-street School, are being repeated
about a schoolboy of Kogarah, named Fairfax. He
made 150, retired, out of 249 in a match between
Eastern Sydney Suburbs and Northern Suburbs Com-
bined Schools’ teams, and then assisted to get the
Northerners out for 49 by taking two wickets fr-
eight runs. This performance is no flash in the pan:
the youngster has been scoring centuries or biggish
scores all through the season, and the freedom of
his hitting is quite Trumperesque.
* * * *,
A cable mentions that in the tennis
championship at the Queen’s Club, London, A. H.
Gobert, of France, beat the Englishman, Mavrogor-
dato, in three straight sets in which he lost only
four games. Gobert must have been in amazing form,
for Mavrogordato is in the first flight, and only hie
refusal to make the journey prevented him appearing
for Britain in the last Davis Cup. Gobert is a
forceful, temperamental sport whose play hovers at
times on the verge of genius. At his top he is the
equal of the world’s best, but he has days when
he doesn’t sparkle much above club tennis. All the
same, he will probably be France’s first pick for
her next Davis Cup party, which will presumably
have to knock out Holland before meeting any of
the English-speaking teams.
* * * #
Those who wanted to see Patterson meet
O’Hara Wood before the former left for Europe had
their chance at Bendigo. Patterson, helped in his
tremendous service by a rain-moistened court, cap-
tured the first set at 7—5, and Wood responded by
getting the next when his opponent had scored three
games. In the deciding set Patterson’s ferocious
service and low stinging drives were too much for
Wood, who finally retired with only one game to his
credit.
* * * *
Jamito, the whirlwind Filipino, ended his
Sydney career at the Stadium on Saturday night.
Lined up against the latest English arrival, Joe
Symonds, the plucky little islander had the bad
luck to break his arm. It happened in the eighth
round. Up to that time the colored lad had lost
every session with the possible exception of the
second. Symonds is a sawn-off giant, who boxes
on strictly orthodox lines, and possesses great speed.
He has all the punches that were displayed here by
such men as Summers and Wells, and a few more
into the bargain. His match with Digger Evans,
when it comes off, should be worth journeying a long
way to see.
* * * #
L. G. Mclntosh took the bulk of the cash
at this year’s wood-chopping and sawing champion-
ship matches at Sydney. In the N. S. Wales champion-
ship chop (15in. standing cut) he won in 60$sec.,
ana with J. Machon won the N. S. Wales double-
handed sawing .title (18in. legs) in 23sec. Mclntosh
(scratch) was also first in the single-handed sawing'
handicap (15ii». logs) in 39see. The under-hand
championship chop went to Ivor Johnson in 69sec.,
Mclntosh finishing third.
* * * *
The bleak wind helped S. McCure in a
stylish performance at Rose Bay (Sydney) on Satur-
day, when he left 50.vds. astern in 23 3-ssec. It
equalled the previous best in Australia, put up by
Alick Wickham in 1910, and is only lsec. behind
Duke Kahanamoku’s world’s record at Auckland in
1915.
* «• * *
“Tally-ho” : The fact that there is to be
a “drive” of kangaroos to make a Prince’s holiday
recalls that ’roo was once hunted a la fox by
Sydney sports. The hounds were a subscription pack,
and in addition to being sooled after the marsupial
were for a while put to native-dog chasing. On
the departure of the 73rd Regiment the pack was
broken up.
QUICK WORK: A TRIFLING HONOLULUNACY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Excited rumors were spread by irresponsible
people that the Prince of Wales had been seen com-
ing in on a surf board, standing on his head.. There
was no foundation . for the statement.” —Hawaiian
r-cblc.
1 was in the Moana when I heard of it first,
-Mitigating the usual tropical thirst.
Hill, the oldest inhabitant, staggered inside.
“It’s his Highness,” he gasped, and then broke down
and cried.
“What’s he done/” I inquired. The old gentleman
said:
“He’s out there! In the surf! Coming in on his
head
I dashed straight for the door, like a man in a
dream,
Disregarding my loyal old visitor’s, scream.
“Paratyphoi! ” I shouted. The servant appeared.
“Ring up General Oboe!” He nodded and cleared.
Both the Fire Brigades answered my urgent demand,
And arrived with -such speed as their teams could
command.
Next, away near the barracks, was heard the swift
beat
Of dark legions approaching on uncovered feet.
And at last (and I thought the cheers never would
cease
As their helmets were seen) came the local police.
“What’s the row?” asked a person with ink in
his hair.
“It’s our Prince,” I replied, “on a board over
tl>ere!”
“You are talking,” he said, “irresponsible rot.
It’s a native. His Highness! No! Certainly not.”
But the error was no disadvantage to me:
It procured me the usual K.C.M.G.
N'.S.W.
10-2-4.


GET THE "OLD CONDITION” BACK.
ĵklhjhl
After years of War Service many men have given themselves up to
the easy life of home. Months in hospital or on transports or in
idleness have, destroyed the good old “condition” that used to be
their great pride in the pre-war and fighting days. Fat has taken
the place of muscle and every exertion is “too much trouble.
Let me get you fit again.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will be the means of giving you renewed health and strength.
You will find my exercises both beneficial and an enjoyable
pastime, and will look forward to the time when you have
to do them. You will find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my course wi
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen
your lungs, and make you breathe in a natural way.
If you want to enjoy better health—to have a strong and
healthy body-'write to-day for my Booklet, entitled
“Health and Strength from Self-culture,” which tells all
about my methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and send it to me, wit
three penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
REG. L. (‘Snowy’) BARER,
Specialist In
Physical
Culture.
236 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the Wor 1 d*
The Secret of Easy Shaving
OP
eo
OP
Do you want quick, easy,
pleasant shaves? Do you
want to keep your face
in the pink of condition,
free from pimples, in-
growing hairs or cuts?
Then Set your Razor on
a PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
be the same—a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
TRY THE PERFORATED HONE
If it doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction, return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 6/-, or post free 5/0 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dent. 11 —123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
klhj
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Roils
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ATITI SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TOPI'S PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Cop pin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WARES—Arthur Leplastrier & Co.. Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., JAd., Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND—BIair. Reed & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
MALAY STATES, JAVA—Dunn & Georgre, Ltd., Sing apore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
for Indigestion.
mlhjklh
Every Motorist Needs
This Goat.
A Coat that is Waterproof, Windproof
and Coldproof is obviously a “Boon
and a Blessing” to Motorists, and
because it does in actual fact measure
right up to these specifications, the Coat
here shewn should
be part of every
Motorist’s Winter
equipment. It is a
perfectly Tailored
English
trench” Style
and combines exceptional
Smartness with unusual capac-
ity for service.
The Material used is a Fawn Gabar-
dine that unites Lightness with great
Durability. The Coat is lined with
Gabardine, and features an INTER-
LINING of Finest Oilskin, and has a
Detachable Fleece Lining.
It is easy to understand, therefore,
how complete are its Weather-protec-
tive Qualities.
The removal of the Fleece Lining con-
verts it into a splendidly suitable
Walking Coat. The price is
%
£11/111
(Freight Free to any part
of the Commonwealth.)
Stocks are not unlimited. Costs are rising. To be on tlie Safe Side-
POST YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
Specialists,” 244-54 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
"Motor-wear


EVENING ATTIRE
TAILORED to MEASURE
IT is in the severe yet graceful lines of the evening dress
suit that skill in tailoring shows to best advantage. The
very absence of superfluous adornment in masculine clothing
necessitates perfection of every tiny detail—perfection attained
in Farmer’s tailoring of formal attire.
Dinner Suits from £l4/14/- to £l9/19/-
Evening Suits from .. .. £l7/17/- to 25 guineas
FARMER’S
" The Store for Men ”
Box 497, G.P.0., Sydney
X--
SAFETY FIRST!
In that “bit of a cold” lurks a grave danger—
your vitality is lowered, your resistance impaired;
an onslaught of Influenza or Bronchitis just now
would carry all before it
Take Bonnington’s Irish Moss
1 ■■■■■ ■
for Coughs and Colds.
Bonnington’s swiftly reaches the danger-zone,
clears the germ-infested tissue, the clogged and
wheezing tubes. :
Insist on the genuine Bonnington’s.
Sold everywhere, 1/6; large bottle, 2/6.
&2S
BONNINGTON’S
•tCTORAV OttMU 0» Y •
CARRAGEEN '//, \
IRISH "MOSS;
eoa^
GEORGE BONAIWCTQN
ONtaiST. enaiiTCNuuK.
128 GUARANTCCO WNOtH Tf‘
*C TOOO ACT. 1008. ft. 9 W-. f
KNINGTON & CO.. LTD. NO. O*
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rusi Proof
Corsers
“The Itevel of Pan,” a masked ball of
great social tonnage, happened on Friday
night in the St. Kilda Town Hall, and was
severely decorous. But if ginger had been
left out of the mixture, the surroundings
were exquisite. Decorations of white on
a black background were arranged to give all
the dazzle to the dresses. A light that dripped
black-and-white crystal hung low from the
centre of the room over a fountain. Dancing
enthusiasts fumed because there were such
long pauses between jazzes; but the supper
was an affair of such moment that several
prolonged intervals had to be devoted to it.
Supper and decorations were so luxurious
that it will be interesting to find how
many pennies the war orphans will gather
from the proceeds. But perhaps the com-
mittee bore the expense of these things.
The committee party was on the dais,
whence dames of great weight viewed the
revel through critical lorgnettes. A pro-
cession was scheduled, but there was a lack
of rehearsal or something. Anyhow, when
the elaborate herald tooted his trumpet only
about three revellers responded.
The sassiety girls chose their fancy dresses
for leg-show effects. An animated Christ-
mas-tree Was particularly audacious. She
refused to unmask all the evening. The
Dove of Peace looked like a bon-bon. A
Fairbairn party came in dresses copied in
England from “Chu Chin Chow.” Mrs.
McCaughey was a peacock. Noel Sullivan
wore the most exquisite domino on record.
Bub Baillieu was a lofty and gorgeous
Chinaman. Norman Lee was so fierce a
bandit that he had to get masculine partners
for the dance. Mrs. Buesst wore an orange-
and-gold Helen of Troy carnival dress built
at Nice. Daughter Isolde floated about as
the Golden Butterfly. Mrs. Russell bor-
rowed the best drawing-room lamp-shade and
used that for a dress.
Melbourne sassiety yearns to revel, but is
always proving that it can’t do it to order.
At the moment of writing the Gaud
Mayor is at loggerheads with 82 gilded
matrons. The whole show is given away by
an inspired par in the Argus :
The duty of arranging detail* for the Royal visit
is exacting, but it would be impossible to carry it
out if representative men were to insist that the
entertainments with which they were identified were
given special consideration.
Which, probably means that the Argus
figures among the 82 matrons who insist
upon giving a ball on the same night as the
Gaud Mayor gives a reception, and who
insists that their attempt to leg-rope the
dear Prince shall have all the special con-
sideration there is about. In short, the
Mayor’s meet is the matrons’ poison.
Wycliffe Stand, on the Esplanade at St.
Kilda, is being booked up as a swanky place
from which to view the landing of the
Prince. The Very Naicest are paying from
10 guineas upward for a perch. Said
perches are being covered with white suede,
and the balconies will be gorgeously draped.
Wycliffe House was for years the residential
quarters of the Royal Yacht Club until the
clubbers built for themselves.
Though he is up-to-date enough to have
a taste for motor-cars and aeroplanes,
Prime Minister Hughes sticks to the old-
fashioned horse to get the little exercise he
takes, and does not miss a ride many morn-
ings when he is at home. At Easter he did
some great runs to and from Melbourne and
his country shack at Sassafras, and is
credited with having once cut out the 25
miles in very little over two hours.
Arthur Robinson, the Attorney-General,
who is in England floating the usual loan
and finding a Chief Railway Commissioner
at £5OOO a year, is to leave for home, via the
United States, at the end of June. His
selection from the men offering for the rail-
way job is being named by cable. But the
Australian applicants have not been actually
turned down yet. Monash was not a candi-
date, but there is nothing to prevent an offer
being made to him for, say, 18 months from
•July 1; and many things are more im-
probable.
New Consul-General Summons is flatting
at Cliveden, and getting ready to spread the
Star-Spangled Banner above some gorgeous
entertainments. Another citizen of the
U.S.A., Mars Parsons, has been doing some
elaborate entertaining. His family party is
saying its farewells after a four months’ stay
in Australia. From here it goes northwmrd
—via Java, Singapore and Japan, if the
necessary connections can be made.
The A.A.S.C. is getting ready for a great
naval and military ball under the blessing
of the N. and M. Club. It is due on July
11 in the St. Kilda Town Hall. The G.-G.
and Lady Helen have promised to be there.
Scjuattocracy from Northern Victoria is
swarming into town for its bath.. .Two
inches of water in a basin is the limit of
ablutions up beyond Bendigo and Chai’lton.
There were suggestions of flying the
Prince about Australia to give him a quick
bird’s-eye view of the country and its great
natural resources, but the scheme has
crashed. The risk to the heir is reckoned
too great. It is hard luck on young Euward,
who, according to Digger pals, is very keen
on aviation.
The Pursey Chirnsides’ successor at The
Manor, Werribee, is Bernard Cunningham,
who for many prosperous years has been
baling wool at Heywood, in the Portland
district.
It looks as if Captain Dyett is to have
another year as president of the Returned
Soldiers’ League. General Monash, whose
election was widely desired, will not go to the
poll. Apparently he is disinclined to chance
his reputation in a body which isn’t a very
happy family, and in which he would have
a long way less than plenary power.
Pretty Joan Lazarus, counsel for ex-M.P.
Ozanne in his libel action against a Geelong
paper, had the felicity of cross-examining
Prime Minister Hughes and showing him
that she was unruffled by the honor. Willie
had hard work to maintain his aplomb under
the rain of questions supported by the silent
wheedle of two bonzer dark eyes, but eventu-
ally ue got through without any sign of the
uneasiness he must have been feeling. As
for Joan, she obviously revelled in every
moment of the encounter, for both she and
her lawyer dad are politically opposed to the
autocrat.
R.M.S. Naldera, which recently left Lon-
don for Australia, is bringing out midshipman
Geoffrey Carter, who missed a trip home on
the Renown through an unlucky encounter
with pneumonic ’flu. Geoffrey, who is now
well on in his convalescence, reaches Aus-
tralia about a week before his old ship
arrives with its Prince.
Orthodox musicians swoon or swear when
they hear the name of Henry Tate. He is
one of the keen, bright spirits connected
with the People’s Conservatorium, Mel-
bourne, and was the first to discover in
Australian bird-calls the rhythms for a
national music. Henry has embodied his
find in several origi-
nal compositions
which translate into
dainty musical terms
the enthusiasm of his,
bush impressions.
Even ears educated
in Europe are
touched by the
melody and ingenuity
of his piano cycle,
“The Australian,”
and his “Bush Min-
iatures” for orches-
tra which have been
lately given in Mel-
bourne. Of course,
the composer has
been told that he
has biffed Tradition
and discarded the
wisdom of the centuries, but every pioneer
in the arts or elsewhere has been the grief
of the cautious at some time or other.
Adelaide works the searchlight:—
A meeting in the Mayor’s parlor established a
Citizens’ Committee to deal with the Prince’s visit—
collect funds, plan street decorations, and entertain
officers and men. There is now £2400 in the hat,
and £2OOO has been promised by the Government.
Two good workers, H. W. Tracy and G. M. Anstey,
have been roped in as secretary and treasurer. Also
a committee is to take a census of available beds
in hotels and boarding-houses. When the Grand
Opera Co. and the Verbrugghen Orchestra descended
upon us simultaneously they were almost forced to
the park lands for lodging, and what it will be in
mid-July Heaven only knows. The Mayoress, by
the way, is the only woman on any of the commit-
tees. Her special job is to help with the entertain-
ment of the Renown.
Miss Snelson, the Y.W.C.A.’s Australian secretary,
is here to look after the preliminaries of “Girls’
Week,” when funds will be sought for a club, with
rest-rooms, eafetaria and the rest, a housing bureau,
and half-a-dozen other things that the business girl
wants.
Following the Wilkinson-Irwin wedding at Mount
Lofty, there was the usual reception in the after-
noon and a dance in the evening. \The bride is the
Charles Irwins’ only daughter, pretty and petite, and
he is the W. B. Wilkinsons’ elder son, with good
war service to his credit. They are honeymooning
in N. S. Wales.
The first of the 1920 students’ concerts took a
big audience to the Elder Hall, when honors fell
chiefly to pianists—especially Jack Bishop and Lottie
Mitchell. Time was when these fixtures were chiefly
attractive to the performers’ relatives and adoring
friends, but the public comes now.
For the newly-founded Scots’ College over £14,000
has been raised to date, but local Scotchbyteriana
have boon reminded that that's not enough.
The Town Hall was all abloom for the autumn
flower show on Wednesday. There were roses and
dahlias, petunias and tall spears of gladioli, carna-
tions and sweet-pea, with the rich glow of African
marigolds—the development of these last perhaps the
most surprising feature. It takes more than a
doubled water-rate to check the enthusiasm of the
Adelaide gardener.
Our oldest fliers are Mrs. Scott and Mrs. Murray,
of St. Peters —both over 80. They went Heaven-
wards with Captain Butler the other duy. The wind
was very choppy; still they said they enjoyed the
trip.
There is deep sympathy for Captain Matthews,
whose ’plane crashed at Bali, almost within sight of
home. His fiancSe, Sister Chaplin, of Adelaide, re-
turned to Australia last January on the Shropshire
after putting up a splendid nursing record with the
A.I.F. She is a fine type of Australian girl and
confesses to a justifiable pride in the achievements
of her soldier aviator.
Mrs. Richard Morphett, who dropped out at Claren-
don the other day, after 95 years, of which 81 were
spent in S. Aus., left Australia 190 descendants —13
children, 85 grandchildren, 85 great grandchildren
and seven as a start for the fifth generation. She
was a daughter of Henry Joseph Du Rieu, a London
notary public of about a century ago and then police-
officer at Campbelltown (Tas.). It has become a
habit of the Du Rieus to die before reaching the
century, but not much before.
Audrie Anderson, of the J.C.W. Musical
Comedy Co., daughter of Mrs. It. A. Howard,
of the State Savings Bank, Richmond, be-
came Mrs. Allan Felix Fenton at Darling-
hurst, Sydney, recently. The bridegroom is
the son of the ex-Mayor and Mayoress of
Essendon—Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Fenton, of
Ascot Vale.
The Monty Grover pair have been mooch-
ing around Italy, getting thrills at every
turn. The high cost of living seems to have
missed the Dago cities. The travellers report
luxurious hotels and plentiful food at a
reasonable cost.
Irene O’Brien, the Australian girl who
gave a concert at the Assembly Hall the
other night, has come back from Europe
with her voice in fine order. It is an ex-
ceptionally rich and sweet contralto, im-
proved by training in Italy, and the singer’s
personality has developed along with her
vocal range. Unfortunately Miss O'Brien’s
display clashed with a Goll concert, so
critics who might honestly have enthused
over her singing were engaged in going into
conventional ecstasies over Goll’s perform-
ance on the keyboard.
Singer Ivy Phillips sails late in May to
add to her musical experience, and there is
to be a big farewell. Ivy is an Adelaide
girl who came to Melbourne five years ago,
and for the first 18 months of the war gave
up all her time to patriotic events, though
she was quite dependent upon her voice for
a living. Dr. Barrett is chairing the big
committee, which will ensure the popular
girl an overflowing Playhouse on May 3.
In May Melbourne is to be introduced to
two new singers—Amy Evans, a Welsh
soprano, and Fraser Gange, a Scotch basso.
They are to tour Australia under the man-
agement of Chappells.
Artists are remarking on the fact that
women are now doing the buying at shows.
Men used to be almost exclusively the pat-
rons. What does it mean? That men no
longer care —or that women have succeeded
at last to cheque-books? Anyhow, observers
dubbed Tom Roberts’s show “The Plarem”
because of the flocks of women who besieged
the place.
Cartoonist David Low, who lately spent a
week-end with H. G. Wells and has also
chummed up with Arnold Bennett, talks
humorously of the insidious British cold.
With a fire behind and a radiator in front, he
can manage with the help of three suits and
someone reading Elinor Glyn aloud to main-
tain enough warmth to hold his pencil. But
the other day when he hurried to the Paisley
by-election as a member of Asquith’s cam-
paign bodyguard, he found that even two
more suits and lengthy listening to the
opposition arguments hardly sufficed to keep
his blood in motion. Low alleges that per-
spiration is extinct in Britain.
Only a couple of R.C. priests accepted an
invitation issued by the Geelong Racing Club
to clergymen of all denominations asking
them to attend a race meeting and see if
things were really as black as clerical fancy
paints them. One Baptist pastor announced
that he would glady attend if allowed “to
preach the gospel at the course.” Yet sup-
posing this brother, in an attempt to spread
the light, offered the hospitality of his chapel
to songandance artists, whom he doubtless
regards as notorious sinners, he would be
shocked if Gertie Greasepaint agreed to
come provided she was allowed to show what
she could do while the collection was being
taken.
Mining-man Tewkesbury is going in for
the movies—not as a beauty-film actor, but
as a maker of Australian pictures. Some
scenes for a big film of “Robbery Under
Arms” are already made. Starlight and his
horse Rainbow are the heroes, and the
actors, materials and scenery are Austra-
lian, and too proud of it to pretend to be
anything else.
Wenman, the J.C.W. director, goes abroad
with his missus next month.
The new star at King’s is yearning to
show herself in Little Theatre plays. She is
planning an Ibsen matinee to help buy
radium for the Women’s Hospital.
Marie Ilka, the bud of “Tiger Rose,’’ is
the daughter of a brewer, so the small bru-
nette has money besides her salary to fling
around. She has a New York maid to
dress her off-stage, and her outdoor clothes
make women envious.
There is a lot of work waiting for expert
women upholsterers and French-polishers.
The expert upholsterers can’t be said to yet
exist in Australia. There are women who
will make “loose covers,’’ and occasional un-
advertised house-mothers and sisters tackle
the chair or couch with the busted horse-
hair bulging through a shabby cover. But
the expert who can go into a factory and
handle a set job is non-existent. Yet she is a
frequent person in England, and factory
men say a woman puts in finer and more
delicate work. The French-polishing girls
in English factories tackle the whole job,
even to moving the “carcases” of furniture
to the workshop. A couple of brawny dam-
sels. and away like a feather goes the old
sofa for repair.
The Women’s Hospital, which lately made
known its desperate need for enough radium
to treat patients suffering from malignant
tumors and the like —patients who in the
past have had to be sent home to die —has
obtained the money required. Public subs,
totalled £7OO-odd, and the trustees of the
Edward Wilson Fund provided £2OOO.
Tony Lucas, of our Australia, has issued
a challenge to the Brewers’ Ass. The Ass.
recently advised Lucas, “for the third time,”
that he must cease selling spirits except by
measure. Failing compliance, supplies are
to be stopped. Lucas’s rebellion has taken
the form of sticking up the notice in his
beauteous drinkery and continuing to pass
the bottle as usual. It looks ns though he
must have a pal with a cellarful of it.
A mining-engineer named Heathersaye, who
was badly wounded at the war, is playing
round Melbourne with a doll he has in-
vented. It is a regular Coppelin, and can
walk and dance in fair imitation of a human
being. He has half-a-dozen of the things
made, and proudly claims them as his chil-
dren. If they can be made to sweep, dust
and cook, the world is his for the asking.
The surplus women in Britain are not all
as fortunate as the three daughters of a
Nottinghamshire family who had a travel-
ler out to find them husbands. The traveller
was a brother who had been in Australia
several years before he enlisted. He picked
his pals in France carefully, and invited
them to visit his home in England when they
went on leave. He did it in a spirit of pure
mateship ; all the same, the three sisters have
secured a husband apiece, and they are now
in Australia. The old people are coming,
too, by and bye.
Though women have to pay high for even-
ing clothes, they are in clover so far as
the quality and range of materials are con-
cerned. Australian buyers find the French
rate of exchange most advantageous, where-
fore the loveliest Parisian silks and ribbons
are pouring in. They cost several guineas a
yard, but the vain hen-birds shriek over the
color and texture of the new plumage.
Writes a globe-trotteress:—
At an exhibition at London Olympia, where the
Ideal Home is demonstrated by a representative
assembly of furniture-profiteers and uninspired archi-
tects, there is one bright spot. It is the “Roo”
exhibit, run by Prank Staines, late of Melbourne.
The pale, slim youth, who used to help at a Mel-
bourne tearoom, is a square-set, forceful hustler
now, and his conception of the kitchen area of the
ideal home is the most helpful thing on view. He
has a big exhibit, adorned with scores of well-
modelled kangaroos, and everywhere the word “Aus-
tralia” is blazoned brightly. His labor-saving wares
range from washing-machines to butter pats, most
of them his own patents. For myself I confess
that when I left I was a reorganised housewife.
Portland, still shamefully neglected by the
Government in view of its possibilities as
the outlet-city of the immensely-wealthy
Western District, is nowadays filling a
humble position in the national scheme of
things as the joy-rendezvous of the Best
People from the interior. To have a sea-
sidery at Portland is an item on the pro-
gramme of many Western District families
with a bit of spare cash, and in the sum-
mer time the prosperous Mallee citizen
likes to give his family a couple of months'
sea-breezing there. Still, Portland deserves
better, than to earn a living as an indigent,
widowed hash-houser.
Harvey Sutton, ex-Rhodes scholar, who
recently threw up his job of chief medical-
officer of schools in Melbourne to take a
similar one under the N.S.W. Education
Department, has got a windfall from his late
brother, a Camperdown solicitor. After
providing for legacies to a specified few
brother Bill left the bulk of his personal
estate of £42,000 to Harvey.


~ v ~p.
vm.
IMS
'
?*>>*
*
a£23
■s»-v^ <s^/4iti \vs > v VU'*’
■ :■
WMmm
* •
53-' .<*•«««
' fIM
I*,,x 1 * ,, x
8?M
■ill £■'-*s> fern:3 ?
£« ■■'' fix aaB^a«M»s!S;
-V -
■
V •
lt\. .
v
wsm
s■'-;::
fe£*S
HA'S
*4,*3*J
3hk9
0
■
fIIaJiL&J
iSi
>
' ‘ •* .
it
p-’ ;• aSsj
4 /
fca
§•**
ag^i^pl
Ft
Si
>5
1
&-?H?
«*»**»•*
ill
m
ISIBn4
*J&S
-. . •
v.Xvd
<a ». -
if m Wm mi
X ' ’' l 'i
S/ft •;■ 1 ’’> %* '
•.« - -&A|
V 6-. ...v
iwmp&'.sM
i
mM
M
■/.-;'»'-, ;:
Sf&
1
& X
jMgt n
-- f
1«
is®
ifi-1
SKqSIBh®? ivM?! jKftlßli
Mlt sfc
ilg
x-:«
gass
i&rasS
f-
Wm
•„-i
IMliy
■
v: •• In -v ife’ ** 43« i
„■ (-,*. ;*v: t-'jp>- , : ;. ; ,rp..p>s
H c- *. ;
life
11
3®
'
.
- • -
&r.
■
•'.■■■■■ •;■:■ i;•■••?; -i-":
'
sest
• * » tjp l
■-.'4- , :
m
~ ■'-, ‘ ■ * • T
PI
: ■. '. '
■> ,
■
*; ‘-H.
' : .
■■ ' . \\ t 1
: : \\S ■ 1
• • '*
‘ ( * »*<• > *
..1
- -! •
.
m
wmmm
av
i aw
Iff
rM
f m
;3p4/3i’
Mi
- ■ .'
■
a
. .
x".
sag
>-
t%;3§11
<
FSSs
1
3J.IZ*
? . J
M
f-g wkm
■
P' " ’S’ t r"
BBg[BBHWBPWaHHWBBBKMa»So
■ ’' ‘ ~,.t-&&3&JS
&&3&JS
Copyright, Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Sir W. Birdwood is one of a new series of drawings speci-
ally executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, Earl Haig',
General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson,
General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sttirdee, General
Sir John Monash and Capt. Sir Ross Smitb, will be sent to any address on
receipt of six penny (Commonwealth) stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to
write and secure a set immediately to
FAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
r /% c::"* M
T HT*
%
MO If
Scotch 7t'httft
m
w
'//SSSSfm —,. , c .. sSS/YM'tftf'*


Royal
Warrant
hjlhjl
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
QlbHeidsieck
MENS
Rei ms
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney,
“Join the National Roads Associa-
tion (N.8.W.)”
FOR YOUR FORD.
Endorsement of the L. and It.
Auxiliary Oiler as a valuable fitment
to a Ford Car by one owner would
prove nothing.
Endorsement by one hundred owners
would prove little.
But when thousands of Ford owners
throughout Australia consider this
patent saves their Connecting-rod
Bushes, and Reduces their Lubricating
Oil Bills, surely i-t is worth your
knowing more about it.
Why not write ns to-day for fuller
particulars ?
Your local garageman will also tell
you of its utility.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett# Barke!l Limited
"The Traders’ Service House,"
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
.m
k
§3
a
Viiiiiii
are made with ex-
pert skill and faultless
precision and add the last
touch of refinement to the
toilet of a dainty woman.
A guarantee goes with
them which ensures long-
er wear and the greatest
measure of satisfactory
service.
■Ask your draper for VAN-
ITY F UK SI -K. GuOVES
—the g oves of cha.m and
distinction. V.F.5
hjklhjlhjhj
She Walks
in Beauty,
combining all
the excellences,
when wearing a
Shave Gown or
Tailor Suit.
Shave clothing
always assures
the elegance of
good dressing,
and this Milady
knows. She is
aware also, that
the art of our
lias been
adorned i
master tailors
so perfected that she can be thus
without the bother of many fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladies* Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
W.M.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
At Rose Hall last week a small boy.
Prince Albert Edward, handed General Bird-
wood a boomerang. The boy i.s the Diggers’
mascot. His father was killed in action,
and the Diggers smuggled him aboai'd a troop-
ship and gave him his name. The boomerang
was intended to be prophetic. It is to come
hack when Birdy is appointed G.-G.
Gladys Cole gave her second concert last
week to a Town Hall not quite so solidly
packed as it was at her monster invitation
sing-song of a few weeks ago, but perhaps a
little more discriminating. Gladys wore a
much-draped white satin frock, and in her
most advanced repertoire, with all the props
of city organ, piano, fiddle and a jungle of
greenery, convinced her audience that it
would like to hear her in the same pro-
gramme after some more years of training.
The front-seaters were tremendously swanky
and included the Davidsons, she in softest
grey, supported by Mrs. Eliot. Flo Young
came to clap the young singer’s flight in a
wonderful black and white rig-out, made
with a long tunic effect of white georgette
embroidered in black beads; and Mrs.
Vaughan Lewis was clothed apparently in
tufts of black tulle. A recently-retumed-
from-America Miss wore a blue ribbon head-
stall. Among the flowers handed up a six-
foot (or thereabouts) “ladder of fame” in
particular took the eye. Wonder if the rungs
had a thorn or two stuck promiscuous-like
among them, just as a reminder that the
way to real success isn’t all petal-strewn.
Aide Frank Lamb was married at St.
John’s, Darlinghurst, on an afternoon last
week that really was the pick of the weather
basket. Florence Eadith Milner Stephen,
in white satin, tulle veil and orange blos-
soms, was the other party. Her dress was
so modest that it revealed nothing beyond
the curve of the throat. The train emerged
from the draped-skirt effects, starting at
the waist line, and old lace purred softness
against the throat and arms of the bride,
who, with her armful of orchids and water-
lilies, was a slim, graceful figure as she
stepped from the motor to the church sup-
ported by brother Milner’s arm. There
were four maids to look after the in-
terests of the bride. They were Faith
Macarthur Onslow, Margaret Fairfax and
Diana and Daphne Davidson, and in their
frilled muslin dresses, blue ribands and pink
rosebuds the four little girls were an inspira-
tion. Governor Davidson thought so, too,
and didn’t mind who knew it, as he stood
beaming with fatherly pride on his two
chicks while the camera recorded them in
their bravery on the church steps. “He’s
as proud of them as my old man is of our
Betty, ’ breathed an approving voice in the
ranks of onlookers. Dame Margaret brought
another little girl with a mass of shining hair
to see the pretty show; it was Judith Bird-
wood, in her party frock. All Sydney’s
nearly-ancestral families were represented at
the church, though, owing to the family’s
mourning, only a few went to the reception
later on at the Milner Stephen home in
Billyard-avenue. Among those few was
Eadith Walker, the Universal Provider, who
dressed the part in French grey from shoes
to feathered hat. Arthur Allen’s Moom-
oara opened its experienced doors to the
couple.
Frances,' only daughter of Victor Foy, was
married in London last Thursday to Captain
Norman Shand-Ivydd, of the E.F.A., and a
descendant of one of the oldest and fiercest
clans of Scottish Borderers. Aunt Ward
iecei\ ed the news last week. Frances is the
daughter of Victor’s first wife—Victor is
the hoy brother who has had three tries at
matrimony—and is extremely pretty and
attractive.
Married on March 27 at the Presbyterian
Church, - Mosman, Vida, daughter of L. F
Saclier and granddaughter of that distin-
emshed pressman, the late Gresley Lukin.
Ihe bridegroom was Newcombe, son of the
late Henry \\ right, of Mosman. The wed-
ding interests the Hunter District, as bride
and groom represent (on both mothers’
sides) pioneer families of the Hunter— the
Jacobs of Maitland and the Halls of Aber-
deen.
If you had been coming down King-street
one evening last week you’d have seen a
seething mass of millinerv outside Sf
James s. Babs (Kathleen Byrio) Campbell
was marrying her ex-soldier, Strath Playfair,
Babs’s frock was a souffle of white charmeuse,
siik net, real lace and silver embroideries,
and sister Doris and Linda McMaster brides-
maided in frocks that were first-cousins to
the bride’s and proved it in white charmeuse
and silk net. Victor Hall rendered first-aid
to the bridesmaids, and brother-in-arms
Major Christie supported the 'groom. The
W entworth flung wide its gilded grandeur
to the 200 guests, but refused to have the
flashlight photo on the premises. The snake
that made history in the Garden of Eden
could have had no more brilliance to the
square inch than Mrs. .Tack Campbell, who
was resplendent with opalescent sequins, and
looked so young that the onlookers refused
to believe her the bride’s mother. As for
the bridegroom’s mother, Mrs. Edmund Plav-
fair. who is of the slender school, she looked
like her own son's twin sister. Between
them Archdeacon Oakes, of Bathurst, and
Padre Collis tied the knot.
In the days when Sapnho Smith was re-
sponsible for the Woman’s Letter she
recorded that a certain Edward Garland
had been presented with a chaste silver
salver and a duck of a tea service by his
comrades in the Leg. Council as a token of
sympathy in the face of his approaching
nuptials; later on she records the wedding
to °k plnne in St. James’s on July
I<, 1800, when Miss Graham, of Glebe
loint, became Mrs. Edward Garland with
the assistance of five bridesmaids who car-
ried buttercup posies. Well, last week, a
daughter of the 1890 bride came from Wah-
roonga to St. James’s to marry her soldier!,
Femvicke, of Orandumbie station,
\\ alclia: and daughter Marguerite replaced
the white silk of mother’s day with the white
Duchesse satin of the modern bride, and
found four bridesmaids sufficient to look
after the etceteras. Strangely enough, their
bouquets were also yellow, but this time the
yellow of chrysanthemums. The Queen’s
Club spread its silver for the party, arid here
it was that Mrs. Garland smiled at the
guests over her bouquet of mauve orchids.
Another pretty bride of the week was
Phyllis Jordan, who married Lieut. E. W.
Segaert, nephew of Sydney’s Belgian Consul.
They go to live in Fiji, where Phyllis’s
cousin, Rua Farquhar, who last week be-
came Mrs. Lamb, has taken up her residence.
Noelie Buchanan, whose mother owns
Moondani, Sutton Forest, and Killarney
station, Narrabri, announces her engagement
to B. Millar, D.S.C., till lately Flag-lieuten-
not in the Navy and of the li.E.F. in Siberia.
Noelie drove a motor during five years of
the war, and dodged the shrapnel of 16 air-
raids.
At the Wentworth the other night the ordi-
nary reveller revelled more than usual in a
jubilant wedding-party at the top of the room,
rile self-possession of the bride and her
’groom could not be shaken even when at the
cutting, of the cake the whole roomful with
one voice stamped out “For they are jolly
good fellows” and called for cheers for' the
radiant pair. The two bowed their thanks
and then swept on to the floor in a solo jazz,
twinkling and grape-vining, she with wed-
ding veil flying and her train flung over her
arm. The merely-dinner dancers greeted
the turn with the wildest enthusiasm. The
wedding-party, bride and all, were still at
it when the ordinary fellow was tucking
his best girl into a taxi.
Concert-manager Jack Griffiths is back
from New York, which he saw under such a
blanket of snow and slush that the overhead
trams hung out the “nothing doing” sign
for two days. Taxi-men charged you two
dollars for driving you a block, and you didn’t
blame them for it. It was the blizzard and
the slush that decided Jack’s future. Agnes
Murphy had given him letters to theatri-
cal celebrities, among others Daniel Meyer,
and after that the Australian had chances
of hitching his waggon to many a Yankee
star. Then came the horror that New York
calls weather, and Jack bethought him of a
sunny dugout in the South. So now,
instead of travelling America with his con-
stellations, the musical fowl will visit Aus-
tralia under his guardianship. Ilis first
lady will be Alice Sovereign. He spent the
day before he left America with Eva Mylott,
who was gaily planning her dresses for the
Australian tour she intended to make next
year. And then Cold Death cancelled all
engagements.
At the Metropolitan Opera House Griffiths
heard all the front-rankers, Alda, Galli-
Curci and the others, and it was here he
heard the original production of the “Blue
Bird” Opera composed by Albert Wolff.
Maeterlinck was there in the Vanderbilt box,
and by his side the new Mrs. Maeterlinck,
who, seen as Tyltil in one production of the
Bird, was loved by the impressive-looking
old boy with the grey lock of hair falling
across his forehead like the wing of a
wounded dove. Maeterlinck found in her
his soul mate. For the ordinary male ob-
server she carries a pair of very fine eyes,
a wealth of fair, fluffy hair, and extreme
youth. Operas never start till 8.15 or 8.80,
but nobody who is a financial anybody
arrives till after the first act—and if the
financial anybody is a woman her full-dress
above the waistline consists for the moment
of diamonds and beautiful arms. In three
cities he mef the Belgian Royalties, and each
time the Queen wore the same cream travel-
ling-coat and the same small toque of silky-
grey material. She isn’t a financial anybody.
It was all navy serge and gold braid at
i e House the other afternoon when
the Friendly Union of Sailors’ Wives handed
I resident Mrs. Glossop an Australian opal
surrounded with diamonds in the form of a
brooch. Mrs. Glossop leaves on the 20th
with her Commodore for England.
There was a great flutter to get everything
ship-shape tor the opening of the Quambi fete,
lo begin with, the weather having turned
a tear-dimmed eye on lawn and flower-bed,
the committee decided to hold the fete under
cover. . So there was a rush to engage the
Masonic Hall, at Double Bay. Food and
fancy goods and stalls in the making were
carted down to shelter. Then the sun came out
in its finest, and the committee re-decided
to sell the home-made cakes and sweets in a
floral surrounding. Back, then, to the Kelso
garden, where it was all hands and the
cook at it to be in readiness against the
first flutter of Dame Margaret’s cavalier
cloak upon the green. Of course the chil-
dren and Joan Birdwood came with her Ex.
Mrs. Richard Sly was President of the fSte,
and Mrs. Ludowici and Mrs. Grieve kept
the cash register. Funds go to buy linen
and baby-garments for the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital.
Judith Fletcher pictures for us Ada Part-
ridge, good Australian, and principal for the
past 25 years of the Fort-street Girls’ High
School, though when she took it over from
Mrs. Allingham, who also had held the
position for 25 years,
it was known as the
Fort-street Model
School,
Miss Partridge
first knew the school
as a little girl-pupil:
every day she passed
through the then
closely-packed areas
of the Rocks, com-
ing at length to the
old historic building
with its pillars and
architectural embel-
lishments, its old
Moreton Bay figs
throwing shade on
the wide stone bal-
conies and veran-
„ 4 . «ahs, the last strewn
with rings for tethering horses, for in Gov-
ernor Macquarie’s day the school-house had
been built for a military hospital; and there
is still a record of the speech Governor Mac-
qoane made upon its use in 1815. In
18oU I ort-street was opened as the first
State school m N. S. Wales (St. Philip’s
church school preceded it by six weeks). In
18i7 Miss Partridge passed her pupil-
teacher s exam, and went on to the church
school of St. Peter’s under the head-master-
|lnp of the late 11. W. Guille. Later, when
loit-street was the great training-college
for pupil teachers, Miss Partridge returned
for the higher education. From there she
took charge of the infants in the Hebrew
school that was held in the Synagogue
Chambers; then back once more to Fort-
street as first assistant in the infants,
fepreading her wings once more, she opened
the Leichhardt Girls’ School. And then on
the retirement of Mrs. Allingham she came
home to her beloved Fort-street as its prin-
cipal. There she has been for the past 25
years. Prior to 1912, when the school was
turned into a High, she identified herself
with the social side, till the bazaars and con-
certs of I ort-street became known through-
out the State; and what old admirer or
pupil of the school can forget the Jubilee
celebrations in 1899? Like the Elizabethan
pageants, they lasted for a whole week, and
culminated in a monster picnic.
Miss Partridge retires on the Ist of May
not to the simple life, though that has its
charm for her, but to busy herself in the
fields of welfare work, travel and modern
thought. Admirers have a chance to pay
court to this good friend on the 30th at the
Conservatorium.
Just a postscript about the function at
Kose I-lall when Birdwood opened the May
Langer Owen ward. (And Mrs. Langer
Uwen s good deeds, being enshrined in the
hearts ot all her workers, need no reminder
ol brick and mortar, in this generation, at
any rate.) The luncheon .that preceded the
opening was a wonderful affair of cooked
meats, all prepared at Rose Hall under the
supervision of its war-time culinary wizard,
Mrs. hherwood, who this time came from
Leura to prepare the Birdwood bill of fare.
The Rose Hall Y.A.D.’s handed out the
meats, and the twin Macarthurs deftly
juggled the plates of their Excellencies and
the General. James Ashton looked after Mrs.
Storey, who wore a handsome fur coat; and
Lady Helen drank the toasts in coffee. By
tlie way. the new little Mayoress, being un-
recognised on her arrival at the A’.A.I). i n .
spection at the Town Hall, sat meekh
among the crowd, nor attempted to push inti,
a place among the 'eads —in her own hus-
band’s Town Hall, too!
The Royal Alexandra Hospital for Chil-
dren gets a lift next Saturday, when th«
children of the Sunday Times Friendship
League hold their bazaar at the Paddington
Town Hall. The whole affair has been
arranged by the children, under the secre-
taryship of Alice Cooper, aged 15, who has
canvassed firms for prizes, and carried on
the whole correspondence of the affair.
H. Nevill Smith, who is teaching his
singing methods (learned mostly front
Bouhy) in Christchurch, sends word to his
native Sydney of the success of his pupil
Frances Hamerton, who lately pulled down
the three years’ vocal scholarship inaugu-
rated by the Cathedral city’s Male Yo'c,.
Choir. Twenty-one candidates wrestled
for the prize. Sister Nevill Smith, who
lives at Leura, has had three of her Moun-
tain paintings hung and sold at the Christ-
church Art Exhibition.
Recent bridegroom Tom Dalton is quite
recovered and is back once more at his
club. His sudden illness at the orange-
blossoming was not. as some papers stated
a stroke. It is ascribed to excessive fasting
during Lent.
An Australian drops a line from Monte
Carlo to tell of brilliant sunny days and
cool evenings that the Riviera puts'on for
the height of her season. Among the every-
body who was there were three reigning
monarehs, half the nobility and demi-mon-
daine of Europe, Melba, Lily Langtry, Vio-
let Lorraine, the Shah of Persia. Air. and
Mrs. Leslie Walford, Fayette Perry-Alison
and Mrs. Lebby Hordern.
Some of the “schools for young ladies’’
leave their mark all right. A flapper who
had inadvertently changed umbrellas with a
girl acquaintance at a Town Hall concert
the other evening sent this note: “Miss
Bronte presents her compliments to Miss
Clovelly, and begs to say that she has an
umbrella which isn’t mine, so if you have
one that isn’t hers no doubt they are the
ones.
Dorothy Ilelmrich, who has been making
English provincial appearances, writes to
say she made her bow to London in company
with the Harrison sisters, the well-known
strong team at the ’cello, fiddle and piano.
Plunkett Green, the London teacher to whom
she first went, told her that her Australian
training had left very little for him to do.
so he presented her to Sir George Hensehel.
who considered the voice so beautiful that
he asked Dorothy to sing his “To-morrow”
at his 70th birthday party; and the Sydney
girl (not so overcome as to mention in her
home letter that she did the deed in heavily
embroidered white crepe de Chine) had the
,ioy of hearing the old master say he had
never heard it sung so beautifully, and of
seeing all the musical celebrities of London
pay their respects, each blowing out one of
the 70 candles around the monster birthday
cake. Wasn’t it singing-master Hensehel
who was responsible for so much of the
finish on Mrs. Alex. Gordon’s voice?
A neat little pile of £l7OO was laid upon
the foundation stone at the nev r Chatswood
R.C. Church on Sunday. Bishop Barry came
back to his old parish for the ceremony, and
laid £lOO on the stone to keep Frank Coffee’s
cheque for the same amount company.
Here's a wardrobe full of blue-stockings.
Dad, the Congregational Rev. Rivett, is a
thick-set and cheerful little parson who talks
peace, lectures on Internationalism, and
writes in the Worker. One daughter.
Doris Mary, is the most brilliant scholar in
economics that Sydney Uni. has produced.
Another, the eldest, whose specialty was
modern languages, is principal of the L.M.S.
Girls’ High School in Calcutta. The eldest
son, Dr. C. D. Rivett, of Melb. Uni., was a
Rhodes scholar, and in 1914 went to Lon-
don as organising secretary of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science
Congress. Two other sisters “took medi-
cine”—-one is a missionary, and the other
practises in Brisbane. There is still one
more left, and he is in his fifth year of
medicine. The father is superintendent of
the Devonshire Mission in Surry Hills.
There are more mean streets in his “parish"
than in any other man’s in Australia; and
he wouldn’t exchange it for the richest.
Fanny Cohen, B.Sc., daughter of a Mac-
quarie-street doctor, and niece of the Judge,
is responsible for the high standard of mathe-
matics at the Fort-street Girls’ School.
Three times within the last five years a
pupil of the school has w r on the Uni. mathe-
matical scholarship, and recently Nellie
Bri stowe scooped the pool. Miss Cohen
graduated at Sydney with first-class honors
in mathematics, and won a scholarship
which took her to Cambridge. Returnn.'
to Australia she decided to give up social
life for education, and old Fort-street is the
gainer. *


'\v •;
, 1 ; .'
'
. ?! M ' -J’ J
• - '
ly'; '
S>l£j^y
: V; : :• •
■ .
4
.
•>;i; v '.3
¥#s
* i
111
slflSii
ns
SIN
'
..
13 ; T
■. ...
:
■ m
■
•.**>- 1
5«?1
. if- -V/. , .frig
S ■ • &-gsBl
■ -
;
hr t
i: il l
■
' ;
m
.. ..:.,..
lil
«' S
■
mmmM
s
" / w
wSMm&wSi! '‘t.
mi
iis
: ; y,;
1 Illfltliy; if
■
■■' ; f
;
: "
V *!
■
i 1
1
• ; ■:
; ' ■ ■ ■ ' '
mmm
m
wmemm
•*#
'* ■ .■
■Hi
Hi
Hi: 1 '- 1
r .|r #
r W. - 7 1’ ■"!
■
■JMf % t %*•
■
- • •
fc3srigHHHni
mm
THE background of this picture
represents the more humane
side of the great war. In the
foreground, stands the Nurse,
woman in her great and tender role.
And wherever the Nurse was, there was
Benger’s Food, used to sustain the soldier
through severe operations, to nurse him through
the crisis of fevers, from illness to convalescence,
and back to health.
Tens of thousands of the Empire’s soldiers
who have known "Blighty,” will for ever associate
it with kindly nursing and Benger’s Food.
lhjlh
Food
for INFANTS, INVALIDS
and the AGED
is always prepared with fresh new milk. It is
especially light and very nutritious, and it is recom-
mended by medical men whenever digestion is
weakened or deranged by illness, etc.
Benger'S Food differs from others in combining
the means of natural seif-digestion with nature’s
great essential foods wheat and milk. This self-
digestive process is present in no other similar food.
Those who take Benger’s are thereby enabled to
obtain adequate nourishment and regain strength,
when ill and physically weak.
Benger’S Food will fully support adults in the
prime of life, yet it is prepared to suit the digestion of
infant, invalid or aged person. Invalid Service men
will welcome and value it whenever indisposed.
lhjl
Benger’s Food, Ltd., Manchester.
Branch Office: 117 Pitt Screet. Sydnf.y ; and at
NEW York : 90 Beekman St. Depots throughout CANADA.


Learn to Draw,
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
ei
Tlie aboVe
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
tlie possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, anti why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send thre e
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßM’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J WESTON
Postal Vchool of Drawing,
195 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
BURNS AIR
hjklhjk
jklhj
One‘BEST’ Light
Gives more Light then
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90AlrlQ< Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. NoWlek! Sohreaul
So Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it aitv where. over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
I Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENI
i)SI.VP on ot— i * t . •
have an absolute confidence in its uu
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number oi
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons n'liich produce
these maladies out bf the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifiei
and for those who suffer from headaches, th
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuade
to purchase any substitute preparations
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemist
throughout the Commonwealth.
ARTIFICIAL EYES.
To ensure a natural appearance an artificial
eye must be an exact match in size, shape and
color. This can only be accomplished bv
making to the requirements of each individual
patron, and specialising in the manufacture of
BNELLEN REFORM and TAYLOR PATENT FILLED
CAVITY MOVABLE EYES
to your satisfaction. Exact copies can be
reproduced from damaged patterns.
I am the sole agent in Australia for Mr. G.
Taylor, London, and have the exclusive right
to manufacture under his patents. All pat-
terns left in London with Mr. Taylor have
been transferred to me for future execution.
Visits will be made to other States. Particu-
lars on application.
L. MERRETT,
Moffitt Chambers, 283 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
aSS
Sydney
fjQlit.
REWARD. >
6, Platform
P.O.
■book lost? April
JOHN HOKI,
fie
\ V
TfT
m 3
OME-
criorl'
'iW ry \
COLD WEATHER
HORSE RUGS.
This fiery steed is wearing our BW Style,
with cross web fastening. We have also
B Style, with cross leather straps; C Style,
with hind-leg straps, and
THE FAMOUS “EUREKA” PATENT
STAY-ON RUG.
Write for our full rug price list, showing
Four Styles and Seven Qualities, and we
will send you patterns of the canvas used.
DON f measure horse along the back. AVe want full length of rug along bottom.
HERE ARE PRICES OF GOOD RUGS
extra heavy navy canvas, check lined, cross belly webs
r>4, ditto, but with cross leather..
BS, heavy white duck, lined kersey, with cross leather straps
“Eureka” Patent Rug in white duck, lined white felt..
Add 2/3 per Rug for freight in N.S.W. and we
refund if less paid.
K’burra Stockwhips.
Kangaroo Right Through and
Expert Plaited.
Thongs, Gft. 7ft. Bft. Oft. 10ft.
12-plait.. 14/6 17/- 19/6 21/6 24/-
16-plait.. 17/- 19/6 22/- 24/6 27/-
m
00-KOO-KOO- K'BURRA
HANDLES, 1(5-plait 15/6; 24-plait 17/6
Handles for Oft. and 10ft. Thongs—
-16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait, 19/-
Whips Sent Post Free for Cash with Order.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
Saddlers,
393 George St.,
Sydney
r
Ts
1
Salt
mini
For All
Animals.
HANG THEM
BY THE
LOOP.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
—the aristocrat among Shoe Polishes. PRESERVES the
leather, and gives a brilliant and lasting polish.
• i
Now supplied in Champagne and Light and Dark Grey for the
fashionable colored footwear. In large Screw-top Bottles.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
Sydney.
79
.0
Put “Vallo” on Guard
Give your Sheep the protection that is embodied in
every packet of "VALLO." Remove every possi-
bility of uncertainty. There are no failures where
this reliable preparation is used, and there can
be no infection when your flocks have been through "VALLO."
Powder SHEEP DIP
possesses merits which no Woolgrower should overlook. It is not an
experiment. Its equality to the best Dip ever on the market has been
firmly established by leading Pastoralists everywhere. Its growing
popularity is due to demonstrated efficiency and service. Every claim
for "VALLO" can be substantiated by performance records.
Look for the
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY - BRISBANE u
Trade Mark.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Mo notice (except of a hostile cKttracler) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
S T ame and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be i eturned
unless stamps accompany.
Tom Officer: Go over your copy before you
close the envelope. Then you won’t send sentences
like: “But it also must caused a certain of action.”
We haven’t time for guessing competitions. ... Iro S.:
Sorry, but we’ve promised to give ping-pong the
first regular column we’ve got to spare. However,
we'll take a note of your eloquent, plea and otter
draughts the second ca 11.... J.D.C.: No use to us
and we can’t suggest a likely buyer... .L.M.W.:
Ask the Vic. Agricultural Department... .Tom
1!. II.: Send ’em along. The one to hand not up..
R.F.S.: Not a very new idea that B. Kay: It
seems to 'want ballast... .J.T.H.: “Drought at
Cobar” is lumpy, but there is color in it. . . .G.L.8.:
“Dust Storm” is commonplace of poor quality....
1.F.: All that mystical love and virtue can’t stir
a whisker.. ..J.T. A.: The happenings in the guard’s
van won’t d 0... .Alice B.: Hopeless... .R.A.N.:
Take it away and fumigate it.... Pel. H.: Not for
us... . M.G.W,: Man goes poultry-farming to cure
his nerves and gives it up because the dogs and
cows make a noise. It would take a good man to
get a grin out of that.,. .A.A.A.: Poorly told and
conventional... .Luminous: Spoiled in the telling.
Try it again... .Annie A. A.: Read it to the curate
when he calls... .P.A.D.: The initials are well-
ehosen, anyway. The ground has been trodden to
dust. .. .D.E.1..: You can take it that contributions
go on their merits. We want all the good stuff we
can catch... .Allan Rollin: “The Gambler” is a
melodramatic person who doesn’t move U5....8.L.
(Sydney) : Verse about the pub and six o’clock can’t
make good in that wobbly metre... .N.M.: “Re-
lease” and “Dungog” must go back... .L.P.J.:
“Plain and Range” just miss.... Austin F.: Too
close to another man’s method and not always very
far from his words... . D.G.M.: Verse isn’t bright
enough.... Matilda’s Mate: That sort of thing grows
a bit cheap. Nothing but very flue workmanship
could have carried it.». .Penslip: You saw two people
saying good-bye in a garden. Now if they had said
good-bye on the top of a telegraph pole. .. .S.A.T.:
A long way from home.... Mel S.: Not for u 5....
Cookoo: As thin iis the ghost of Lazarus... .E.M.Z.:
Is it a puzzle?.... Peter T.: You’ve a long way to go.
K.A.L.: If you are only 15, don’t try to write
as if you were 150. .. .Nosmo K.: “Bill and the
Trooper” is worth re-writing.... Pat .1.: Moral
verses are so wooden that we’re going to split them
up for palings. .. .A.F.A.: Misses. .. .K.D. (New-
castle): Flounders and finally falls in a squashy
heap... .Snifter: Yarn no use.... ICrie M.: Very
p00r.... Kane B.: Not enough marrow in the bones.
....Squib: A long way off... .X.: Not quite; but
it’s vigorous... .F.K.G.: Too close to the common-
place... .GAY.: “Betty” and “Lily” miss; but the
“Typist” horror should be burned at the stake. . ..
GVO.H.: Even descriptive landscape verse should link
up with something human... .N.A.0.: “Old Days”
failed /it the last jump. Yes, there is promise; but
keep to simplicity without being commonplace....
1.R.M.: Can’t fathom the last stanza of “Battle
Hymn.”. .. .H.R.C.; Haven’t any idea whether you
were that H.R.C. or not, You know the stories we
want. Send them along... .Charles B.: Here’s a bit
of the dainty thing:—
It is not meet for man to be alone
Or woman either;
But Love, Marry, Populate,
Have Home and Income, besides.
Be just, kind and true;
Study and Help one another,
And if Anger arises between .you, *
With Silence it smother.
Have cottage and garden free,
Good food, clothes and health,
Plenty of sunshine and fresh air,
Without the cares of Wealth.
And when the little ones come,
Do not be harsh or cruel,
But bring them up in the way they- should go—
At home, at play, at school.
....Grenadier: To be obscure isn't to be a poet.
Even a sonnet may have its lucid moments.... Codex:
There’s a nice little example of that “brotherhood”
in connection with the last wharfies' strike in
Sydney. To-day the Sydney wharfie is divided into
three classes —the “true-blue,” the “loyalist” and
the “scab.” The first two are pretty good friends.
Both of them hate the “scab.” He is the man who
left some other trade and union to collar the
wharfie’s job. The “loyalist,” the man who was
brought from the country to break the strike, was
more or less forgiven long ago. It is the other
“brother” whom the wharfie never will forgive... .
8.T.: Don’t you believe it. The ordinary wage of
the domestic servant in England—in London even
•still isn’t more than £45 a year Argent : Thanks.
always a market for such personal experiences....
Bon Accord: Turner holds the Vic. record—he beat
Bent by a few months Ah h'ee: Write of the
little things you know about. Why, the common-
places of your life are astounding things to the
Duke of Woolloomooloo and the Countess of The-
barton Tyre: You’re right; but it must be
cooked for general consumption... .7941: Too vague.
Let’s have the hard facts on which you build....
Platysnia: There’s an article in that: you only
labor heavily on the surface of the question. No
use enclosing stamps for return of such MS. It
can’t be done....Coota: If you could put “Indis-
pensable Service” into a column it might make a
printable sketch. Chantecler: Sorry, but space won’t
run it.... D.M.8.: Copy so closely crowded in such
small handwriting on both sides of the paper has
practically no chance. The photograph is of no
use to us.... Red Tabs: No, no! Lempriere isn’t
dead—except departmeritaily. He has merely
quitted the red-tape job of administering the com-
mercial side of the War Precautions Act.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.G.C.: Sent to the office tomb with all due
reverence... .C.G.1.: Hard lines and not very humor-
ous ones C. 8.: Sorry all unsuitable J.C.: The
woman in the chair has the head of an idiot
W.D.S.: Dashed... .A.W.S.: We pay for everything
we use. We won’t pay for anything of yours until your
work is far less crude.... Prophet: Humor creaks like
an old barn door on a windy night... .N.F.: They’re
both handsome in a mummified way... .A.D.F.:
What is the man with the distorted leg saying to
the man who is examining the teeth of the sheep-
goat? E.L.V. :We have no appropriate insult for
the senders of indelible pencil-drawings. Invest in
a bottle of Indian ink and some Bristol board. And
it might be as well to learn something about art,...
Joe N.: Poor thing. If you can’t do better there’s
no hope here J.H.F.: The infuriated man and the
sarcastic small boy are too calm and still. They
have never moved and never wi11.... Frank D.:
There’s a glimmer in it. Work on.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Ttooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fa res.
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
48ip:
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
s y dne ?-
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MAY 19,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO„
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; ITon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 258 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 881 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK^
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
subscribed Capital . . .. . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
Genera l, Manager —AV. V. RALSTON.
II KAO OFFICE - - - IS It IS BAN E.
Brunches —London, Melbourne, Sydney anti
til roll glut lit Queen Niund.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, F.sq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (326 Collins Street).
Manager: 51. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
Aju> at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNVARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600.000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,490,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. . . . . 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . ■ 625,000
£1.820,000
risen Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Skipping, ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, April 26.
R.M.S. MAKURA, May 27.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago. Niagara I'alls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z)„
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Fails, etc.
TOFUA, from Wellington, May 7.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, April 29.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
hjklhj
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ĵklhjl
- £4,639,160
3,200,000
4,639,160
£12,478,320
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Es
The Hon. James T. Wall.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq
■q.. M.D.
;rr.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji. Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (Newßritain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through*
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Bolomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
1920
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,t62,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
hjklhj
Directors:
G. J. Cohen. Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
•T. \V. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes.
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world
Shipping.
Huddart Parkei L|m<
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
! STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
; from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appii-
i cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between' Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particular-; apply HUDDaRT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street. Sydney.
A.U.S.N.Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
"JjEVUKA,” 0500 tons,
, maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
j and Sydney.
! The “Levuka" is fitted with wireless and with
: every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
! The round journey from Melbourne occupies, 2(1
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by 9.5. “Amra,"
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., -100 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilji & Co. Ltd.,
i 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
i X HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND . MANKIND
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOI.GOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £l5 18s. (id. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. (id. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be. arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bj# this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic: Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co.. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOB:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
I*, a. O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messa series Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BUANCHKS at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide. Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Offiee: Mary Street, Brisbane.
ĵkl;jk;
“Invincible”
Marine Four-cycle
ENGINES. '
Simplest in design, easiest to operate, sweet-
est running, most economical and
Made in Australia since 1906.
Write for Catalogs.
Invincible Motor
Construction Co. Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


The EDISON AMBEROLA
Perfect Tone and Voice Reproduction.
The high-class reproductions with The Edison
Amberola make it a most entertaining instrument
to have in the home.
Whether your taste inclines to the finest operatic
singing and instrumental music, or the livelier
music-hall songs, rag-time or bright band selections,
you will be able to gratify it with the Edison
Amberola.
Edison Amberolas are fitted with the famous-
Diamond Stylus Reproducer, which does away with
the bother of changing needles and ensures clear
reproduction.
There are several models—the one illustrated being
the Edison Amberola No. 30, available at a popular
price.
Call on your nearest dealer and hear it play, or
write for full details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
V.Y
m
v»;
2
m
The Economical Chip Heater Generates Heat from
the Waste of the Woodheap 8 from old Newspapers.
Cheap and Instant Hot Water for the Bath, Kitchen or Dairy.
Warm Baths for many Winters for £2/17/6.
)yi?° doe f n t , kn ® w aild appreciate the healthful warm hath? It is n winter
S P}'*- only from a sanitary viewpoint but also from a mediml Tr
hnn?J 6S C °i (S ' . kee Pf t he Pores open and skin healthy, and helps to keen the
man mechanism fit tor daily service. Knowing the necessity of dailv hot water
*4* <«' thoJ.oluS
The Danks’ Chip Water Heater
ml* ur«rsu i
h e ated h pu,v e waLr IS per C mlSe haS * VWy **** heatin * area > and Olivers about two gallons of
Shower*? ,- "U of chips ‘ The "ill giv» a
Tllo * S an actua l test: A daily newspaper was inserted and lighted.
hf* ea ter gave \vater almost too hot to bear in one minute and
continued running hot for 1y 2 minutes. minute, and
daiin V fox el it.” 10 ' Vn toUntry Baker writeB: “ The Chip Heater is going splendidly and is all you
... .. these convincing proofs show its great convenience for Country Use, Mountain and Seaside
( ottages, Shearers Camps Laundries, Dairies, and for Farm and Station use. No necessity fo?
Station-hands in remote places to ride :n twenty mil - for a hot bath. necessity tor
Uin not install one this winter for your own or employees’ use? The price makes it
possible. Me pack it securely for rail and Country Orders. p e es 11
PRICE: Iron, £2/17/6; Copper, £6.
Hot Shower Attachment, £l/5/- extra.
Special Stand or Wall Bracket for fixing (if required), 8/6 extra.
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO .PLUMBERS AND STOREKEEPERS
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY.
7 A od at Melbourns,
Just
{ this-
S*;
r/A
IPLES
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
klk
“A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
snot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
W eight, about 2Aib T
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
25 =
mm
"Simple and extra strong in construction.”
IJIO. Winchester Single-shot Rille, 1904 Model, for 22
short, or long rim Are cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b. ..
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
60/-
.
HIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. Ihe action used is of the safety-bolt tvpe. and is
i ... , exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, ISin. long, bored
and rifled with tno same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate
Weight about :11b., fitted with plain V-back 5ight........ atcurare.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/0; other States, 2/8.)
33/-
jkjkljhl
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
820. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
meiiess Rifle, 22 calibre, 0 shot, 20in. round
barr ® , » lake down, weight (Ulb.. muzzle velocity, 2800 ft. seconds.
oa # iL*~ n .P, t 0 350 yards without changing from point blank
« • of sl F b f s; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70 grains) are
useu, giving a striking energy of 1200 ft. pounds; carriage paid.
£l3 5
Owing to market, fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
' ■
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy."
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, IG-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sJlb. ..
Freight paid,
£6/1 7 6
rjTi
“EVER READY” PA ™
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable* Nothing to get out of order.
Pull instructions with each one.
PRICE Bd. POST FREE
kljk
“A suitable weapon for the boy."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States* 3/2.)
37/6
ķlkj
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
incites. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sfll>
Freight paid,
-IS/ oiy
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water- and Moisture=proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
m
kljkh
I*l4. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
1892
With Round Barrel .
With Octagon Barrel
Freight paid,
Freight paid.
£B/15/-
£9
816. Winchester Repeating - Carbines,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central file, full i
20in. round barrel, weight about sslb
1892 Model,
■ half magazines,
.. . Freight paid,
£7/17/6
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
ore
• •
TJVSTRRWfS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
TITiD TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St, also at
Newcastle d Brisbane


A Charming Belgian Baroness
BARONESS CLEO LALIERE
{from a photo.).
Praises
Laxo-Tonic Pills.
Ask a woman what she most desires,
and nine cases out of ten she will
answer “Beauty.” Why she wishes to
be beautiful is in part for the sake of
charming others, but primarily for
the satisfaction in herself which sin
feels would come with the possession
of beauty. All women can be beauti-
ful if they but give to their own bodies
half the attention they donate to their
clothes. A clean, spotless skin, a
glow of health, clear and sparkling
eyes, are the attributes which will
make any woman beautiful. First, to
become healthy, Laxo-Tonic Pills are
of the greatest and most important
assistance.
Read the following letter, which was
written to us by the Baroness Lalijre:
There are many times that I
would l’eel that it was impossible
to continue my work, if it were
not for Laxo-Tonic Pills.
They are a wonderful Tonic and
Blood Purifier. Years ago I had
occasion to use them to remove
some obstinate pimples, which
(hey did most effectively, and
since then whenever I feel at all
run down, I have always had im-
mediate recourse to Laxo-Tonic
Pills. I consider them a most
wonderful Laxative and Tonic, and
heartily recommend them.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) CLEO. LALIERE,
38 Alfred Street, North Sydney.
Laxo-Tonic Pills
for Liver Ills.
I.axo-Tonic Pills assist the processes of Nature, give relish to the food, removing
exhaustion, sick headache and many other ailments.
Anyone who takes Laxo-Tonic Pills the moment she suspects her liver or bowels
will never have headache. There is no necessity when you take Laxo-Tonic Pills to
follow them up with nasty, sickening, griping salts or castor oil, as you should
after taking calomel. I.axo-Tonic Pills do not contain calomel or any other metallic
drugs. They are a purely vegetable compound in a gelatine coating, easy to take
and never gripe or cause weakness.
Thousands of people take one every night at bedtime to prevent disorders of the
liver, constipation, bad breath, pimples and headaches. Try them for a week take
one on retiring nightly.
Laxo-Tonic Pills Price 1j- ; or large size bottles, 2/-
o
V
9
9
pi
Whq do I uso PLUME?
“Because it enables me to get more
and better service out of my car.
Because it ensures easy starting,
sweet running, more m les.”
That is the answer thousands of
motorists would give to the ques-
tion, “Why do you use Plume?”
Plume users speak highly of the
results obtained, and our files con-
tain very flattering testimony of its
efficiency under varied conditions.
Plume users have been remarkably
successful in recent Reliability Con-
tests in several States. Full partic-
ulars can be obtained free upon
request to our nearest Branch.
Try Plume next time.
When ordering just ask for Plume
—don’t say Benzine
' y l
A
en
P 23
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Trams and Moonlight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Pitt-street on a night of sweet soft
rain . ...
I saw a thing that thrilled me with
swift joy,
So beautiful it was. Along the street
The lights shone shimmering on wet blocks
that gleamed,
So that the roadway seemed a quivering
glow
All efflorescent with the lights that wavered
And sang in happy concert, each to each,
Gently. And then a tram charged down
the street,
A tram lit radiantly with lamps within
And filled with people in the mood of play.
Some for the theatres, and some (maybe)
For little cosy rooms, the quiet rooms
Where someone sits and waits for some-
body,
Not to discuss the weather. Such a tram
Is a long chariot that bears delight
To meet fruition—such a blessed errand
In this old world a-w r eary!
Then the rain.
As the tram started, ceased, while from a
rift
Of thinning clouds the moon blinked out and
peered
Smiling upon the new-washed street, and
cried,
"Go on, dear folk, in that old world I’ve
seen
Nightly since I was born, and nightly since
On that dusk hill I tasted sudden joy
That made me understand all that I’d guessed
But dimly of the lure that lovers seek,
And finding it are evermore enslaved
And in a blissful bondage well-content!
Go on, glad folk!”
The city laughed and sighed,
Seeming to throw long kisses to the moon,
Who thrilled to be so kissed. And then I
saw
The blithesome men and women in the tram
Breathe deep behind their laughter. Oh,
the moon
Showed every raindrop now emparadised
Into a living pearl. A chemist’s shop
Far dow-n the street flared two red eyes that
beamed,
As if some dragon there lay envious of
Delight lie could not share. The clouds fell
back „
Tired to their dim horizons, and the sky
Flashed into splendor like a bosom bared
That’s decked with splendid jewels and one
pearl
That far outshines them all. The rain was
over.
But now I knew the gods had come to town.
They whispered in my ear. I felt them
brush
Against me as they passed. A white flank
gleamed
Startling in purple shadow. It was she,
The Queen of Last Delights. Next, as she
sped,
I saw a mighty lover that pursued her,
And knew that Death still wooed dear Love
as in
The ancient days. There came to me a god
In other guise, a jocund, low-browed god
Who chuckled genially deep in his throat
And bade me mark how night was ripe for
love;
And this was Ramanandroany, the thief-
catcher,
Who leaves the thieves of love still free as
air
To make him sport and whet his appetite
To munch the thieves of time more hungrily.
A swart god, Ramanandroany, muscular
And strongly sinewed. “Look ya, lad,”
quoth he.
“You call it that and this, you wrap it round
With husk o’ stupid phrases; but old love
Is still desire in every latitude,
And you w r ho woo your dames upholstered do
But imitate my Malagasy folk.
Mark yon smooth damsel, how she gazes
softly,
While still behind her eyes a something
chuckles;
A something that is Me. My forest folk
Gaze so. We all are pagans under our
skins.”
He laughed himself away. I did not mourn
For him. The street about me now was
thronged
By these immortals. Some were cool, per-
verse,
The two-sexed deities. Some skirled and
shouted,
The war-gods. Some, the furnace-gods,
blazed out,
Dazzling the eye. Some, the shy hamlet-
gods,
Whispered together. Some, the household-
gods,
Smiled, happily observant. Some, the gods
Of roads and roofs and mountains, roamed
about,
But spoke no word coherent. And there
were
The river-gods, the sky-gods, animal-gods,
The kitchen-gods, the moon-gods, and the
others,
Who sang in chorus that set fire to th’ blood
And made the night tumultuous. Setebos
The Patagonian leapt about the road,
One arm round Buto’s shoulder. When they
kissed
The houses rocked and trembled. Tlaloc
swore
That he loved Neplithys, who straight ran
away,
Pursuing Xipe. I saw Kronos stoop
To kiss a little typist as she passed.
The girl blushed into flame and panted there,
Not knowing what had kissed her, content
To be so kissed by mystery o’ the night.
Quetzalcoatl told me such a tale
As I must tell you secretly one day
When we’re alone together. Isis stopped
To hear what he was saying, but he thrust
A hand into her bosom, and she sighed
Back into invisible air, while Adzi-Anim
.Said. “Here’s a tale to match you!” and
they put
Their heads together and I left them there.
Adown the street I went, with goddesses
On either side and hack and front of me.
Gula, great Ishtar, Ma, lithe Cybele,
Gouri, Hygieia (oddly worshipped lately),
Maia, Mefitis (still adored in Asia),
Mylitta, Net, Salacia (ah, the bad one!),
Tanitli (whose breath is magic breeding
madness),
Ceres, Astarte, Lakshmi, Pallas (cheating
The thirsty world of kisses), all the wdiite
ones
That men have prayed to, dying, and so
won
Their immortality.
I was exalted
And I remember still in all my blood
That night in Pitt-street cleansed by sweet
soft rain
When all the gods and I were glad together.
And well I kno-w that every babe conceived
Upon that blessed night will go through life
Dowered with imagination, which consoles
For all the pains it brings one. Lady dear,
Pertunda grant that on that happy night
Heaven sent you happy fortune! l.ady
mine,
Lady of all the world, delicious Woman,
The gods are here to guard you all the
while,
If you will trust your hand to their dear
' hands
So fain to clear the paths your feet must
tread.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
“Mr. Patrol Officer.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. PATROL-OFFICER GREY had
not thought of calling in at Yoraana
on his way up the river; he would
look in on his way down. He was on special
service, hot on the tracks of two hillmen,
murderers, who killed only women and child-
ren, and ate the victim’s right hand. There
was something behind this —a pourri-pourri
(magic) of some sort. Hence this special
patrol.
He sat back in the whaleboat and watched
the ripple of Miria’s muscles beneath the
satin-brown skin. Then his eyes wandered
to the tropical loveliness all round. He had
seen this kind of thing before; but nothing
quite so bounteously beautiful. The waters
of the river crystal-clear; one could see the
white and orange pebbles on the bottom.
An old man alligator lurked near a water-
pad, where the bush beasts came down at
sunset to drink. Mountain-moss floated
lazily down from the banks. Great ferns
and gorgeous begonias glowed back to the
jungle. Dragon-flies, Tyrian blue and green
and gold, wove in and out like a living
rainbow. Here a nepa-palm stood out, there
a riot of rose-scarlet D’Alberti. A flock of
hornbills made uncouth noises; a giant crane
flapped inquisitively near. High up in the
branches of a giant illimo a raggiana bird-
of-paradise danced daintily to and fro
against a background of imperial purple.
Behind it all the interminable jungle with
its everlasting lure of the Unknown. The
fairy tales of one’s childhood leave their
fleeting fancies in every decent man’s soul.
Mr. Grey remembered quite a lot of them,
and poetry. He now quoted “Purple glory
and scarlet pomp.”
A flight of black cockatoos shrieked over-
head. Their cry seemed to Mr. Grey like
the bird in a picture-play he had seen in
Sydney last long-leave; the blighter had
called “Blood, blood. Buckets of blood.”
He became introspective. Last time he
had dined in Moresby the chief had men-
tioned casually that they in these outposts
were spreading the Empire. Mi-. Grey sup-
posed it was so, and had let it go at that.
But now he remembered that three brothers
and his splendid young brother-in-law had
paid the blood-toll in the Great War. (He
himself had been turned down for a lame
leg, pipped by a poisoned arrow.) His
mother, in consequence of their deaths, was
existing on a pound a week granted by a
niggardly Pension Department and what he
could send her. His sister, who had never
wanted for anything previously, was eking
out an existence for herself and delicate
child on £.2 11s. a week, out of which she
paid a pound a week rent to the Govern-
ment. She had written to him by last mail:
her letter was in his pocket. He re-read
it. and blazed with fierce anger at what she
told of the treatment meted out to her, and
the concluding lines: “After all that we
gave up! This war, after all, was nothing
but cursed greed. Call it what you wi11”....
Mr. Grey felt bad about it. His mother
almost in need; his father, a fine and dis-
tinguished old scholar, mentally unfit and
bodily broken; his pretty sister and her deli-
cate child compelled to do without all the
things they had been accustomed to. And
persecuted! He’d cut this Empire-spreading
stunt, and get to a plantation—and the pay
was better.
A sudden sharp ping and a long-drawn
“phew!” snapped the silence. Instinctively
Mr. Grey and his boat-boy ducked for cover.
Despite Rules for the Guidance of Junior
Officers in the Papuan Service (Regulation
22 —Never draw firearms unless attacked by
superior forces without hope of withdrawal),
he loaded his revolver and fired a fusillade
in the direction of the attack. The shower
of arrows ceased. “Bolted!” said this cryp-
tic young man. He unstrapped his first-aid
outfit and attended Miria. It is not good
to get a poisoned arrow through the thick
of one’s arm. But Miria never even sucked
in his breath as his taubada withdrew the
barb. “Blood will tell!” quoth Mr. Grey
to his patient, who was the fourth of the
seven splendid sons of Quaia, the last great
chief of Papua, and didn’t understand his
words. But being both gentlemen they
understood each other and admired one
another tremendously.
They rowed on in silence. A canoe-load
of Maiva men came round a bend in the
river. They were decked out in paradise
plumes and dogs’-teeth necklaces and dried
human hands strung on hair strings round
their necks. Paradise plumes out of their
time mean mischief. “What are they dolled
up for? Ask them.” demanded Mr. Patrol
Officer of his interpreter.
Kisisi stood up in the boat and harangued
them dramatically in Motuan. They shook
their heads. He became eloquent in Oro-
kolo. They smiled and replied. Whereupon
Kisisi reported: “Him speak Uki Ravi [a
kind of earnivall come quick-time. Plenty
sago, plenty pig.”
(Continued on next page.)


Are You
Getting' Old
Faster tHan you ought?
Every Pictur
A Story
Te/ls
7*
$
a
Watchfulness can add years
to anybody’s life. Some are old
at sixty, others are young at
eighty.
Your habits mean sound kid-
neys or weak kidneys—good
blood or bad blood, for weak
kidneys let uric acid collect in
the blood to ruin health.
Always keep the kidneys
active, but especially after middle
age. This is good insurance
against nervous, rheumatic and
urinary troubles, stiff and swol-
len joints.
Rest the kidneys by avoiding
overwork, worry and strong
drinks. And at the first sign of
backache, rheumatic pain or
urinary disorders use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.
What Sydney thinks of Doan’s
Pills is shown by grateful tributes j
like the one given here.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY MAN SPEAKS.
Mr. S. Taylor, cab proprietor, 4
Sparkes Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
says:—“For a long time I suffered ter-
ribly from kidney trouble. I was treated
by doctors, but they could do me no
good, and at last advised me to go under
an operation. Although I was very ill
and fast losing hope of ever being well
again, I would not agree to an operation.
One day a friend urged me to take Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and he spoke so
highly of them that I bought a bottle
and began using them. This remedy
acted on the kidneys in a wonderful way,
giving me relief in a few 7 days, and from
then on my recovery was assured. In a
week or so I felt ever so much better,
and by the time that I had used seven
bottles of these grand pills 1 was com-
pletely cured. Previous to taking Doan’s
my back was so painful that I was almost
doubled up, and could not .stand straight
without enduring torture. I also had a
lot of trouble with my secretions. They
were streaked with blood and caused great
pain in passing. Needless to say, the
state of my health made me feel pretty
miserable, but Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills made a different man of me, and I
now feel splendid. It is nine months
since I w 7 as cured and I have had no
return of my illness, a fact that proves
Doan’s Pills give lasting benefit.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT.
PILES CURED.
Mr. F. E. Palmer, Stove Maker, 205
Church Street, Parramatta, writes :—“I
feel it my duty in order to benefit others
to let you know of the relief 1 have de-
rived from using Doan’s Ointment. I
suffered terribly from Piles for some time,
and spent pounds on ointments for some
time, but I got worse and worse until
I began using Doan's Ointment. I was
recommended to try this remedy by a
friend, and it proved to be really good
advice, for it stopped the burning irrita-
tion almost at once, and, by using it regu-
larly for a few weeks, the piles have
practically gone. I always keep a pot of
this splendid ointment in the house, and
use it whenever I have signs of piles,
and it never fails to give me ease.”
ECZEMA.
PERMANENT RELIEF.
Mrs. H. E. Hiskens, Flora, Garfield
Street, Five Dock, Sydney, says:—“l
suffered for twelve years with eczema on
the face and tried many remedies, which
had no effect: One day I was reading
one of your pamphlets which are dis-
tributed, and I resolved to try Doan’s
Ointment, with the result that, after
using one pot, the Eczema completely
disappeared, and has not returned since.
I always keep this remedy in the house.”
Three yearsdater Mrs. Hiskens says:—
“I am pleased to tell you I have had no
return of Eczema since Doan’s Ointment
cured me over three years ago.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per pot, or
posted free by Foster McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
‘Tmph!” replied Mr. Grey. Still, it
vA nsn t his pigeon. This was Kenyon’s dis-
trict. But he had better see him about it.
One never knows what these beggars are up
to. It was getting late, too. And there
were arrows about.
The .shrilling of countless cicadas, one
higher and more insistent than the rest,
rather got on Mr. Grey’s nerves.
The tropic night came down suddenly as
their whaleboat reached the Yomana landing-
place. Mr. and Mrs. Kenyon, whom he had
not seen since the day of their wedding in
Moresby two years ago, were very pleased
to see him. And Billjim, their perfectly
splendid baby, laughed and crowed at him.
His mother was very pleased—he would take,
then, to strangers; she was going to Port
for a week or two when their whaleboat
came back. It had sprung a troublesome
leak their carpenter couldn’t cope with, so
they had sent the boys into Moresby with it.
Mr. Kenyon had had a rather worse than
usual bout of fever. She and baby were per-
iectly well, thank you.
They had a good dinner of fresh fish and
scrub turkey served by Didigula, their excel-
ent houseboy, with the decorum of a bishop’s
butler. Followed by a really-eold whiskv
and a good cigar.
i *H r ‘ ( V' ey was starting off again at day-
break. He would look in on his way down,
tie retired to a well-strung hammock in
a cool corner of the verandah, with scented
breezes front the lotus lagoon ruffling his
hair. .Through the vast isles of the Forest
great fireflies glimmered and glowed. The
silence was abysmal. Mr. Grey wondered
as he lay half-awake whether, after all, it
was such a rotten thing to ask a girl' to
share such a solitude as this. Hitherto he
had thought so. He wondered —what was
the good of wondering anything? He with
a whole family on his hands!
He caught his killmen murderers. They,
it appeared, had required the blood of many
women and children because some woman
had pourri-pourried Ula the elder one’s leg
so that it had shrivelled up. The devil
that was causing this shrivelling could,
undoubtedly, be appeased only bv female
blood and the eating of many right'hands.
. Uripi the corporal, took charge of them
m the bows of the whaleboat. They were
perfectly happy. They would be the guests
Glib ment. Next to having worked
tor him came the glory of having been his
guest m gaol.
M r - Grey on his way down-river put in
to xomana as he had promised. Mr. Ken-
,von .met him at the landing w r ith tragedy
m his eyes. The younger man put his hand
on Ins shoulder and guided him, unspeaking,
back to the quarters. Mrs. Kenyon lay un-
conscious across the dead body of their child.
Fever, yesterday,” said its father.
Atter it was all over they got Mrs. Ken-
•\ on i, nt<) the boat to take her to her friends.
As they pulled off from the shore she
.screamed and said she couldn’t leave her
baby there alone. Talk availed nothing. She
hack. Mr. Grey put them ashore,
and then pulled and sailed night and dav
to the nearest mission. The missionary and
his wife returned with him. Mrs. Kenyon
( the next day of fever and exposure.
n--fi Gtey feh very badly about it all. This
hi falutin about the Empire! Vampire—
,,A vampire a sucker of blood.
«? f blood. Hed resign at once.
Nothing surer. And start a plantation,
hoonatterlnsreturn to Port he was sent
at'rol I? rb, XC n leUCy ■ spo^.°.t a special
patrol in the Coomasie Division. Bushi-
maiwa, the big chief, was causing trouble.
Rather much. cannibalism in his district
and law-breaking Mr. Stretton was awav
Wmiia *\r Ca n ed for handling and initiative.
U vr care to undertake it?
i-lEe ° f coum ' did ' H<i •* “‘ill
S.S. SEVERN.
Smertz.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fjMAUT as a bowstring, the steel cable
I slanted steeply as it spanned the
gully, a mere gossamer thread in the
haze of the distance. The last of the day’s
logs hung to the underswung trolley beneath
the wire, ready for launching to the landing-
station beyond the 500-foot gap. It was a
sizeable stick, 12-feet long by 30-feet girth
Rod McKenzie stood at the windlass ready
to check the run and ease her over with the
guide-rope.
The gang-boss had opened his mouth for
V- le ™ 4 her gowheu - a t the last moment.
Jim Blake mounted the log to twitch up a
slack chain-sling. Without a word, Smertz,
who was standing below, reached up. swung
his axe and, with a smart tap to the point,
sprung the hook of the guide-rope from its
socket. On the instant the huge log slid
down the taut wire and gathered way.
Someone shouted, “Jump, Jim ! Jump !” but
there was no time. McKenzie rushed Smertz
and felled him with a twitch-stave. Duncan
raced, futilely, in the track of the runaway
log, while Jim Blake threw himself face
down and gripped the sling-chains with a
grip of death. Bushes, ground and tree-
stumps flew back in a mad blur of speed,
and in a flash the avalanche shot over
the edge of the world. And Jim atop of it.
T . , e f es t was nightmare and sheer terror.
With the speed of a high-velocity shell the
10-ton l°g rushed rocking and roaring down
wire. The racing sheaves screamed and
shrilled. Fire flashed from them. Fire ran
along the wire like a living thing. Whirls
of sparks and writhing tongues of flame flew
out on the wind in mad pyrotechnics. The
very wire glowed white-hot in the gathering
dusk. It could have been only seconds. But
to Jim, breathless as he clutched the chains
the horror was hours long. All the story
of his life flashed to his mind. “This ends
it,” he thought. Momentarily he waited
Momentarily he listened for the snap of the
parting wire—the sudden shock, the down-
ward swopp and the mangling death among
the rocks, ’6OOO feet below. What about the
mix up wflien the log took ground at light-
ning speed on the lower landing? The impact
would tear him to shreds! There was just
a chance—he might be thrown clear, and he
prayed the wire might hold. But —could it?
What of this mad whirl of a rocking, buck-
ing leviathan, to which he clung, adrift and
running amok? Would the wire stand the
strain? God! Could it?
A sudden, far scream and grind of metal
on metal and Jim shrieked. The fliad rush
stopped with a jerk that seemed to shake
the universe. The wire above sprang like
a twanged bowstring. The huge log, leaping
to the resilience, played “bob-cherry” in a
wild dance. The man was jerked from his
hold and, one hand clutched in the chains,
hung for a horrible moment over the abyss.
Slowly, painfully, lie managed to haul him-
self up over the round of the log, where he
lay for a while to regain breath.
llis nerves were in rags. Every muscle
of his body shook with fear. His eyes had
looked into those of the Death that waited
in the black gulf below. There must be no
possibility of repetition.
What if he should fall asleep and roll on
the round surface of the log? He wanted
to sleep. What if he fainted? lie felt like
fainting, and, as a matter of safety, he rove
his belt through a link in the chain and
rebuckled the strong leather round his body
with shaking fingers.
Secured thus, half-sitting, half-lying, his
back against the slings, lie saw what had
happened. The pin in the lower block had
worked loose, the wire had jumped the
groove and, jambing between the sheave and
its iron casing, had caused the log to brake
itself by its own weight. The wire should
have cut and parted like rotten cord under
the fierce friction. By all the rules of phy-
sics it should have done so. But it held.
It must have been of splendid steel, and he
blessed the man that made it.
Over the length of the sloping log, 200
feet distant, he could just make out the
cliff-edge, dim in the falling night. Across
the chasm stretched a single length of wire
strands, already invisible. A slender enough
thread on which to hang the hope of a man’s
life!
Rescue? It was a poor chance, and at
best it could not come till morning. The
guide rope had gone. Smertz had seen to
that. Anchored in mid-air, on that swing-
ing balk. .Tim Blake was as much cut off
from succor and his kind as though in
another sphere.
The wind hardened into a screaming gale
from the south-east. The breath of the
l’olar icefields swooped and roared through
(he defile. Rain and wind-driven hail
lashed across the darkness in fierce gusts
and whipped him as lie lay helpless. He
could not move. He could not shift posi-
tion to ease, even for a moment, the torture
of the shrieking blizzard. Ice formed on
the wood on which he lay, and his working
shirt and trousers froze stiff upon him. The
great log swung like a pendulum back and
forth to the thrust of the wind. The taut
wire above sang like a giant harpstring, and
with the clank, clank of the sling-chains to
the leap and sway of the trolley, blended
in a weird, rhythmic harmony— a mad dance
of fiends in upper air—a dance in which
a giddy atom, he himself, whirled in the void
of the infinite.
He found himself laughing at the madness
of it. Mad shrieks of laughter rang down-
wind on the wings of the storm. Voices
there were too. In the roar of the gale. In
the bass hum of the cable-wire and the
measured clank of iron. They were sing-
ing about him, these ghosts of the air. Very
well! He would sing too. “Swing!
Swing!” went the great log to the push of
the wind. “See-saw, Margery Daw,” he
yelled in concert.
The cliff edge below stood out black
against a red glow. They had lit a big
fire in an angle of the rock. His mates
were there waiting a chance of rescue.
The glow of their fire, with its message of
sympathy and human presence, warmed his
chilled heart and made an answering glow r .
But how long? Rescue, if any, must be
speedy. . Flesh and blood could not endure
the strain. They must come soon, or be
too late. Delirium gripped him again. Fact
slid away and unreality was his world.
Ihe night was dark as the mouth of Hell. A
single bright star winked at intervals from
the wrack of westward-flying scud. A
moment it shone, dived into a piling bank
ot vapor and came out, racing, on the
other side. He lay and watched it in a
sort of pleasurable trance. The darned thing
was in a mighty hurry! What was it all
about? Anyhow, it was putting up a good
record and he shouted encouraging curses
to it. He had it! Of course! What a
fool he was! There was nothing in the
wide world but that star and lie. They had
been set a race to the east, Jim Blake and
it. a race to greet the sun—over the rim
of the world !
“Look at him ! See him sprint! Whoop !
I m gaining. H’ray ! I’ve got him beat!’’
* * * *
He woke to a sound of soft sobbing in
the engineer’s bed at the lower station.
Kitty was kneeling at the bedside. She had
ridden twenty miles through the storm at
Ti? WS °i the accident to be near her man at
the end. Jim, as he stirred, caught a look
of love from her eyes ere he lapsed again
into the dreamland of weakness.
It was a broken shred of a man that,
alter the storm, was brought to her over
the wire, in a rope net, like a truss of hay,
and it babbled as it came.
Smertz? The boss got him in the office
and stood the boys off with a revolver till
the police took him. There’d been a fight
about the girl, and Smertz was knocked out.
That was six months before. In the interim
he had been particularly chummv with the
crowd and rotten polite to Jim. *
D.W.O. FAGAN.
Ego.
The very many women that are Me,
How do they flaunt their immortality!
I cannot rise to rage, but from my soul
A savage-thing, thick-lipped, without control,
Kufnes and screams and hisses and demands
Deeds of large fury at my quiet hands.
How do they flout me with eternity!
-riri! 1 I w i se and tempest-free,
When at one murmur of my humble lot
Lp starts a warrior- woman, ankle-hot
Speeding her hurtling chariot with the ’wind
io mock the music of my singing mind?
The very many women that are Me,
Loved and unloved, crowd my mortality.
Cave-woman, slave and queen come evermore
Thronging or creeping in at my heart’s door •
And I. poor wanderer, am lost in these. ’
\\ anting but home and child and Love’s kind
knees. •
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


I# V-
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum iiie and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
©
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
If any illustration ' appearing in The
Bulletin .takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
£
<
$
v;
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
SlB Little Collins St., Melbourne.
ljl
jhljk
jklk
15 fac k a I vaifi se d ®all Xf?? 8 ’ Foot Water Sittings; “National” Pipe,
Standard) Steam, National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
klkj
®@D
intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street
pass ms Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane
nearby). Works: Yeerongrpilly.
gn
kljl
MgTpR LORRIES
Flexible Frames Absorb Strains.
TRONG frames with wide flanges obviate
superfluous cross members and gusset
plates on the Denby Lorry, aiding
greater flexibility. Denby freedom from
frame trouble is fast becoming a by-word with
most lorry users.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2\, 3j, 5 tons,
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
The jVUdicine for You
must possess certain advantages without which it would hardly commend
itself to your confidence. It must be perfectly safe under all circumstances.
It must be mild in its action but none the less efficacious on that account.
It must be, par excellence, a family medicine, that is, suitable for
old and young of both sexes and be freely obtainable in town or
country. It must be easy to take, regular and reliable in its curative
effects and possess a great and genuine record of success. Such a
medicine is Beecham’s Pills which still hold, and will continue to hold,
the highest position in popular favour. It is very interesting, after so
many years service, still to find Beecham’s Pills “at the top of the
tree ” among digestive remedies. They arci everywhere acknowledged
to be unrivalled in the treatment of such troubles as biliousness, sick
headache, heartburn, constipation, giddiness, failing appetite, poorness
of blood and a general run-down condition. If you are in any way a
sufferer from digestive ailments take
gcechaw’s Pills
BEECHAM’S PELLS are specially suitable for females o! all age 3»
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), ( 56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills
EMINGTON UMC
Auto-loading
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
2 2
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS II CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4Jib. PRICE £6 net. Postage or Carriage extra. .
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD.
COWLES & DUNN.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
J. I*. KNIGHT.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
NOCK fi KIRBY, LTD.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY frOm following Firms:—
ALDERSON’S, LTD.
JOHN BROOMFIELD. LTD.
BRISCOE & C<
HALES, LTD.
LTD.
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
J. P. KNIGHT.
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD., Brisbane, Q.
T. B. HOOPER & CO., Brisbane. Q.
Australian Representative for the
D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE OS BEQUEST.
m-i
m
mil,
• «i -
.
%
Control Your Memory by the
ROTH METHOD
During last year in England 150,000 people took
the course.
Don’t grope around in the dark any longer. Control your memory
and see instantly everything you want to remember.
Do you want to be further advanced? Why not then train YOJJR
MEMORY in the right way. It is so easy, give it a trial.
You can learn the secret in one evening. Your ability to remember
will attract your employer’s attention and promotion will follow
promotion thereby
Doubling and Trebling Your Salary.
Remit 42/- to the Standard Art Book Co., Ltd., 29 Woolbrokers-
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the SEVEN BOOKS, com-
prising ROTH’S MEMORY COURSE will be forwarded you post free..
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian •'Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15H6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
jkl;jkl
c allfn& !
l;l
ĺk;jkl
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name
Address .
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
hjklhj
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
{Patented)
r<« *
12/6
each
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
hjklhj
The simplicity, lightness • and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


THE GREATEST BUY IN THE WORLD
OFT CO-T IGHT
Compare the Service rendered by these
various Machines used on the Farm
with the Service rendered by a
DELCO-LIGHT m POWER PLANT
tiiaMS9 WJm
I'i | iffSS,A
m/mKsMS,
■:
> J >■'■':■
■'
iii k.x
AVERAGE USE
WEEKS 1N Hf¥f
AVERAGE
US% TOUR
~ WEEKS!
in: THE
YfAW
Hi
ibv^Wl
Uil
I
<■>
; a 1
\
&
iHS
:•■-V
' -i.
AVERAGE USE TWO
WEEKS IN THE YEAR 1
:
-
■average 3se six *
sjjjj§||, Y £AR ~ 1 G
' ' * ir'ls
.
:
1
%
V
.
AVERAGE USE ORE
m
FIRST COST TEMPORARY.
BENEFITS PERPETUAL.
IT PAYS FOR ITSELF.
IT SAVES ITS COST IN LABOR
SAVING ALONE.
YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO BE
WITHOUT ONE.
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE.
IT INCREASES FARM
EFFICIENCY.
Washing, ironing, housecleaning and a hundred
other tiresome tasks are made easy by
Delco-Light, the complete electric light and
power plant.
Delco-Light furnishes plenty of bright, safe
electric light for any part of the house or
bairn. It furnishes power to pump the
water to any part of the premises.
It will turn the cream separator and tumble
the churn. It will run the washing-machine
and other light machinery.
In these, and many other ways, Delco-Light
is saving time and labor on thousands of
farms every day.
It is solving the “retired farmer” problem by
bringing to the farm home the conveniences
which the retiring farmer had hoped to
enjoy in the city.
The farm equipped with electric light and
power also affords conveniences that attract
hired help and offset city attractions, saving
valuable labor and valuable young manhood
and womanhood to the country community.
100,000 SATISFIED USERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
We Invite You to Write for Catalog
to the Agent in Your State.
Messrs. Smellie and Co.,
BRISBANE.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
M(
essrs. Parsons
MELBOURNE.
& Robertson,
ADELAIDE.
essrs.
Geo. Wills & Co.,
PERTH (W.A.).
m
\
W&Swmm.
i)
m"
m
■
m
I
■ .
;,.L'
. •.
S-l 'h: ':
Y
m
I USED 82 ■
WEEKS I
> - •
A " ...111,:;"'"'
II
■
H
&
:■
raBPP’C s
DELCO-LIGHT
Works for You
365 Days in the Year.
