

toTsoN
-&&tnSv caWUed
ss
/.r>Y‘. -X
632
gsX'.
XtCflti
•«>, .,
»rN
m\
t m
'■Cl*
£4w
f/M
».• <
..V,
f fc? .igft
SW!
S 5
r.
SSf'i-
r«Vs
£3iS>
-iv T-i
Kfif
■, ; v„... ;
SJOS+.
Q
? 3> a*.
rsis
«
RS
m
*c\:
.<! 5
•-' '•
«r i
m
«V 'S!
df&
’* ’ft”
*? ?»
UDI ••&&«
m :-
■ysz
&*wm
i mfst.i
/
5 SSE
i.SJfc*
<5O
o
P"
MMisaga
" MAZDA HOUSE v
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
Cr. of Queen 8C Little Collins Streets
MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Charles Atkins & Co Lto., 86-90 Currie. Street
BRISBANE, Q’land.— -The Engineering Supply Co. ot Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), Corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
TASMANIA—-Oliver & Oliver, HOBART ana LAUNCESTON
• PERTH. W.A.---Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.. Ltd. '' Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street
NEW ZEALAND—-The Nationa' Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH. DUNEDIN. WELLINGTON
The Bulletin
VoL 41.—N0. 2095.
Thursday, April 8, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Swan Self-filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 17/6
(Without Clip)
U«siE
WANIfiS
SWAN
INK
gfhfg
gfhf
USE
WANlffl
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
,
r-.W
V'*)
59
m
re
V
1
Shirts
mm.
%
&
jg<? triif
a cl
on ©acli
-Tlurt.
have the materials and workmanship
that stand the tub-test. No shrink,
stretch or warp. Wearers of THISTLE
SHIRTS get everything in quality, refinement
and class that critical taste demands.
Look for the Thistle Label on the next shirt
you buy.
THISTLE SHIRTS and PYJAMAS are sold
by men's clothing shops the country over.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers-BRISBANE & SYDNEY. « 26
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
fgh
fgh
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during- a
period when it has not been easy to live
ud to our standards. The quality of om-
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed-
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract is a Contract,”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
forward. Wo will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & CENT Inc.,
80 Maiden Cane, Holbrook Building:,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beachjred
fmaem&gsgar-
’S
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicid#
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Coids, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6. [6
A.
B.
»
P
(A
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
X <s#
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
The Historical Guess
History’s main facts generally lean a long
way from the perpendicular. Already many
of tp e happenings in France and even at
Gallipoli are disputed. Thirty years after
AVaterloo the survivors of the battle painted
the horse Wellington rode from light chestnut
to dappled grey. When the historian comes
to his job after matters have settled for a
thousand years, he wants a good imagina-
tion, an instinct for the likely thing, and some
skill in balancing statement with omission.
Thus, when you read that Julius Caesar was
victorious in Britain and celebrated his vie-
tories by clearing out of the country as fast
as he could, you suspect that the Romans
got the grandfather of a hiding, which was
carefully disguised as a strategic retreat.
AN hen you read that Richard 111. was the
arch-villain among English kings, and dis-
cover by following a side-line that England
had two years of remarkable prosperity under
Ills rule, you suspect that a great many
people deserved beheading. When you find
Henry VIII., with a very mixed reputation
m the pages of history, always calling his
f arliament together when the plots around
him got too thick, you suspect that Henry
and the people understood one another rather
well, and that he couldn’t have been exactly
the purple tyrant he has been made to
look.
\Y hen the people called Israelites tried to
settle in Palestine they bumped very hard
against another people called the Philistines.
The bumping continued until David became
king. David is represented by the Jewish
historians as the national hero —a Jew of
Bethlehem. AVas he? All his early story
reads like a myth—a record of impossible
feats and attractive accomplishments mixed
with such piety and courtesy as a real hero
ought to possess. Further, there is a little
idyll of his ancestress Ruth which seems
to have been written to explain away the
fact that some of his subjects looked upon
him as a foreigner. Leave out the praises
and come to the admissions of the historians.
David is admitted to have been in the service
of the Philistines, and a leader among them
at the very time when, on Saul’s death, he
was called to be King of Judah. And from
that very moment there was no more war
with the Philistines worth recording, although
the Philistines were at the time victorious!
AA’hat is the reasonable guess? Surely that
David was a Philistine who so completely
defeated the Israelites that he became their
king! As there is already a standing guess,
strongly supported by the evidence of other
guesses, that the Philistines were lonian
Greek, there seems a very big chance that
David was really twin-brother to an
Athenian, that he spoke the language of
Sophocles, and that the European element
thus introduced into Jewish nationality gave
it the lift and force which made it individual
among the surrounding Asiatic peoples.
Try another guess. Britain was supposed
to have been entirely conquered by the
Anglo-Saxons, who exterminated most of the
original population—that is, a German people
wiped out all that was purely British and
made England a “German State. The Nor-
man mixture at a later date is not sufficient
to account for the difference between an
Englishman as he is to-day and a German,
because the Normans were never very numer-
ous and they were themselves a Germanic
people. AVhat really happened? As late as
Tudor times AVelsh was spoken right down
to the borders of the ancient Saxon king-
dom of Wessex—the kingdom which became
paramount among the States of the Hep-
tarchy. Is it too great a guess that the
kingdom of AVessex never really drove out
the British within its borders, that the same
British succeeded in becoming masters in
all but name, and that the victory of that
State over the rest was the backward surge
of the Britons against the Germans? Con-
sidering that two hundred years later a
swineherd easily rose to be chief adviser
of the king, there was a general confusion
of affairs which might easily falsify Egbert’s
pedigree: arid there is a very decent chance
that Alfred, Athelstan and the rest were
really British with only the slightest Ger-
man admixture of blood.
And another. Rome only enforced con-
scription in one circumstance—if the Gauls
or Gaels invaded. The Roman could handle
Latin or Etruscan or Greek or Carthaginian ;
but if the Gaels came every man must get
out to resist him. The Gaels on one occasion
sacked Rome; they also plundered Delphi
and walked over Greece in a way that all
Persia’s millions could never do. Evidently
the Gaels were about the strongest people
m the ancient world. Yet historians tell
“at the Gaels were driven back to Ire-
land and AVestern Scotland before the Cymri.
who were in turn driven before various sorts
oi. Germans. In other words, the Gael, who
could play as he pleased with Rome, was
licked and pushed into a corner by a people
who went down like skittles before that
same Rome! Something seems wrong some-
where. Then, observe farther, the whole of
the most ancient place-names of England are
Cymric except a thin line running from the
Meisey to the Thames, which are Gaelic
Is that line a line of retreat or a line of
advance? Is it possible that the Cymri
in defeating the Gaels, left them in posses-
sion of a line which lay like a knife across
the middle of their own country, cutting it
in halves? No; guess again. The line from
the Mersey to the Thames represents the old
travelling route, of the Gaels from their
strongholds in Ireland and Scotland towards
their conquests in Italy and Greece. Such
a guess fits the archaeological facts; and the
inference is that the Gael was never pushed
anywhere by anyone, but that small bands of
them bent on plunder or glory actually plan-
ned raids in Wicklow and 1 Galway which
kept the strongest things in Europe shivering
for five hundred years and perhaps for five
thousand years before that. Mommsen says
that the Gael raids were in search of wine;
so Rome, in Ga‘el eyes, was merely a slight
obstacle which stood to bar the'road to the
great southern pub.
One Australian guess. Captain Cook, the
man who couldn’t spend an. idle day off
the Isle of Wight without correcting the
Admiralty charts, is reported by the his-
torians to have. entered Botany Bay and
niissed the entrance to Sydney Harbor. Is
it possible to believe that? He had no such
difficulty in finding his way into narrow
landlocked waters elsewhere; and though
Sydney Heads are close together, it is
hardly possible to sail past them without
getting a glimpse of the bush-covered slopes
within. How did this close observer come
to miss that glimpse? One answer is that
he didn’t miss it, but that he saw so well
and' so far that he deemed it wiser to keep
what he saw and to swear all the
ship’s company to silence on the subject,
lie saw that if Port Jackson were discovered
early in the history of settlement the out-
look for the rest of the natural ports of
eastern Australia would be a poor one. It
was probably something in the appearance
of the sandstone or in the way the North
Head looked at the South that gave him
an awful vision of the Milliotw Club glory-
ing over the fact that the city was growing
bigger and bigger and the most fertile in-
land districts actually losing population.
P. O. M.
Thoughts and Other Things
Words certainly help to formulate ideas
and to detain them for examination, and there
is a form of self-conscious thinking in which
words are heard intermittently, or even con-
tinuously, by the mind’s, ear ; but in what
may be called absolute mentation words have
no function.
Dialects are natural divergencies of idiom ;
slang is an artificial and arbitrary misuse
of ordinary language, supplemented by a
vocabulary that represents nothing but it-
self. Nevertheless, I would not entirely re-
ject slang. The tendency of English is
steadily towards the shorter, easier and more
picturesque expression. Hence the growing
inclination to recognise slang "that conduces
to brevity and convenience. Take the
Americanism “make good.” You make good
your statement, claim, argument or what-not
and the expression simply elides unnecessary
words. Again, when you say that you
turn down” a proposition, you are brief,
explicit and graphic. Many Americanisms,
in fact, have “made good” by virtue of sheer
tersity. “Scoot,” for instance, gives the
immediate impression of swift and smooth
departure; but if we take the equivalent “do
a get-away,” we have clumsiness, prolixity
and vulgarity. And if in “slang” we in-
clude technicalities, we shall find English
so abundant in these that only by weighing
every word can we steer clear of them
(“Steer clear” is itself an instance.) “Hard
up, though in everyday use, is not recog-
nised as to the helm, any more
•J m J£, r ° w him over ” suggests the ship’s
side. Taken aback,” extremely graphic to
a . salt-water ear, is somewhat more sugges-
tive of its origin, and expressions like “raise
the wind ’ may be said to speak for them-
selves; but the strictly technical two-word
nautieality which is in more use than any
other _ among men is hardly ever connected
with its primary meaning.
Dialect meaning, strictly, any modifica-
tion of a language, is popularly taken as ex-
cluding the standard form. But what is
standard may become dialectical, and a-dia-
lect: may become a standard. West-Saxon
English—standard in Alfred’s day—is now
represented by the dialects of Dorset, Devon
and Somerset, and the standard English of
to-day, a development of the East-Midland
tongue (Lincolnshire to London), was but
a dialect in the ninth century. Also, while
a dialect may, despite its local limitations,
be correctly and agreeably spoken, you will
often find standard English absolutely be-
devilled by people who ignorantlv sneer at
dialect as vulgar. Real vulgarity' lies in
the prevailing prostitution of vowel-sounds,
running of the tail of one word into
the head of the next, the ignominious stran-
gulanon of terminals, and the interpolation
ot the Cockney “r” between an end vowel
and a commencing one—the “lawr of the
land, and so on. In French the hiatus is
legitimately filled with a “t,” as in “y a-t-il” •
but in English a similar use of the “r”—
common even with university men—is an-
athema to the discriminative ear.
ALEX E. NONTGONERY.
Owen Morgan (Red Page 11/3/’2O) says-
I am convinced that when I think of a dog
the actual word is focussed in 'my mind’s
eye as well as the animal itself.” Maybe
tlrs is now the case with Mr. Morgan: But
when did he begin to do it? There are at
least two sorts of people who can't mentally
see the word at the same time as the
object: (1) babies, (2) illiterates. When
mitmma looks out of the window and tells
Fido to get off the violet-border, the baby
which has previously been introduced to
bido knows just what sort of critter he is
reproving when he adds his own contribution
of Arrh. Bad dog-gie!” from his cot in
the nursery. Certainly young Bill doesn’t
see D-O-G neatly printed or typewritten on
the screen of his understanding. He can’t
do that until he can read; and if not till
™ en > why even then? Another point. If
Uwen Morgan is up in stenography, what
does his mind s eye see when he thinks of
shorthand—the word in English, the word
m shorthand or a crowded page pf char-
acters. The . last, I should wager. For
instance’ my little lad is six and he couldn’t
teH the word “shorthand” in print to save
u he can identify a page of
shorthand at once. Certainly he would be
also hkeiy to identify a page of Turkish as
shorthand; but it s the thing and not the
name that he sees.
FBANK HENTY.
Futile Leagues and Other Sorts
Leagues of Nations , Ancient, Medimval and
Modern, by Elizabeth York, is a book con-
taining much information and not one shred
of comfort. Its general lesson is that there
haven t been many leagues, they weren’t
very successful, their lives were short and
they are all dead. The samples quoted fall
into three categories, the first being Leagues
that Really Existed : .
(1) The Amphictyonic League of old Greece was
a power for religion and humanity, and did a vast
amount to soften, the rigors of war. Its head-
quarters at Delphi were akin io the headquarters of
the Papacy. But it was hardly a League any more
(Continued on page 24.)


w aGe
VALUE IN DEPENDABLE INCUBATORS
' XWBEKSTINc UB A
THE SUPERIOR.
Superior Incubators.
Opinions differ as to the respective merits of Hot W ater
and Hot Air Incubators. We leave this question for you to
decide. We can supply the “Superior,” manufactured by the
Cyphers Co.; it is well built, well insulated and up to the
usual Cypher standard. The boiler and tubular tank are made
of heavy copper. This machine will hatch duck or hen eggs.
It is fitted with a nursery space under the drawer, and remov-
able diaphragm for ease in cleaning.
65 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with low legs (as illus-
trated) ...... £7/7/6
130 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with long legs—
. 6 £lO/12/6
Complete with Tester and Directions.
Old Homestead Incubators.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator is hot-water heated,
and manufactured to meet the demand of those who believe
that hot water heat for Incubators is better than hot air.
It is a handsome, well-built machine, and
will give general satisfaction if operated
according to the directions supplied. The
heating device is made of copper pipes, with
a diffusing cloth of wire which carries the
heat from directly under the pipes to the
space between them. This evens up the
temperature so that on the egg level the
temperature is practically uniform.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator, made
in one size only—
Approximate capacity, 70 eggs .. £B/5/-
Complete with Egg Tester and full
directions.
Cyphers Incubators.
Tens of thousands of Cyphers Incu-
bators have been sold since they were
placed on the market some years ago, and
their fame has gone round the world.
Cyphers Incubators (as illustrated)
No I—l4o eggs, approximate capacity—
£l3/17/6
No. 2—240 eggs, approximate capacity —
£l9/10/-
Special Ostrich Machine £27/17/6
THE BUFFALO.
MARE sure of hatching early chickens
this year. The time is now right
for getting busy ; you can choose with
confidence from Anthony Horderns big
stock of dependable incubators, ranging
from the 15-egg Reliable to the
16,000-egg Mammoth.
Jb>
The Reliable Hatcher.
A Circular Machine, made specially
for those who want to hatch a small
quantity of Chicks. It is made en-
tirely of Metal and is safe and reliable.
Success is assured if the user follows
out the directions given with each
Machine; we have had these tested
with satisfactory results. A Ther-
mometer is sent with each one —
Made in three sizes—
-15 Eggs
25
50
15/-
22/0
45/-
Brooder, for 15 or 25 Chick Size, 16/6
US Y
Hi
i
m
J
THE CYPHERS.
Buffalo Incubators.
in the construction of the New Buffalo Incubator
little wood is used. The casin'? is of galvanised-iron, and
can never rust. It is lined with fibre board, which elimi-
nates any loss of heat by radiation. The walls are double,
the space between the inner and outer cases being well
packed; this makes an incubator as substantial and well
insulated as it is possible to manufacture. The front is
made of hardwood, finished in the natural grain. In addition
to a glass door, it has an outer hardwood panelled door to
darken the hatching chamber and to preserve the heat.
No. 0— 60-egg capacity £8
No. I—l2o-egg capacity £lO/15/-
No. 2 —240-egg capacity £l5/15/-
No. 3—360-egg capacity £l9/18/6
American Standard Incubators
The American Standard Incubator is made by the
Robert Essex Incubator Co., and is fitted with a
fire- and smoke-proof heater, both very essential points.
The lamp font is made with the ioin on top—result,
no leaking. The two bottom diaphragms are covered with
canvas and are removable for cleaning.
The American Standard system combines perfect ventila-
tion and perfect heating. It gives the eggs that natural
warmth that makes the perfect chicken.
American Standard Incubator—
Approximate capacity 70 120 200 eggs.
Weight packed 100 130 2051 b.
Cubic feet • 8 12 20
Floor space 30 x2l 34 x 2644 x 34 in.
£lO/12/6 £l3/10/- £l9/5/-
Full directions, Tester and Thermometer with each
Incubator.
Send for a Copy of our Catalogue of Poultry
Golds —oostei fra2.
THE TRIUMPH.
§55
m
32
4*
Triumph Incubators.
To meet the wants of n large number of our clients who
want a larger number of Chickens than can be hatched in a
“Reliable,” we have manufactured the “Triumph.” This is
a Hot-air Machine embodying all the latest improvements; it
is fitted with a Capsule Regulator and is worked on the
damper principle; it is thoroughly reliable and will give good
results if the directions are fully carried out.
40 Eggs (as illustrated) '•••• 50/-
50 Eggs. Improved, with Nursery space under drawer.. 75/-
ipproximate weight packed, 561 b. and 841 b.
Packing for Country, 1/6 extra.
Columbia Incubators.
The Columbia is a first-class Incubator,
manufactured by the Cyphers Co. to meet
the demand for a popular-priced hatcher
that will give satisfaction under all ordinary
conditions.
Columbia Incubators have double walls,
including ends, back and top, are fitted with
Cyphers Co.’s Thermostat, are self-regulating
and self-ventilating, and when operated under
normal conditions need no added moisture.
Made in two sizes, both having long legs.
140 Eggs, approximate capacity £9/12/6
250 Eggs, approximate capacity £ll/10/-
We stock everything
required by the poultry-
keeper, whether he be in a
large or a small way. Both
the quality and the price
are right, bear in mind.
=s
STANDARD _!Z5 =
5\ .
1
- » mj. i i L
THE AMERICAN STANDARD
ANTHONY
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


Use a BROWNIE
for souvenir
pictures
What better reminder could you have of
holidays, travels or friends than a series of
photographs which tell the story better in
pictures than a diary could in words?
It is quite easy to use a Brownie —they are
simple and dependable—designed with same
care that has made the Kodak famous.
Box Brownies are great favorites with the children. l'he
No. 3 Brownie takes fine, clear pictures, 3£ x 4| inches.
Price 27/6. Other Box Brownies range in price from 12/6.
The Folding Autographic Brownies are very popular. The
No. 3a model takes splendid postcard-sized pictures, 3{ x 5J
inches. Price 90/-. Other Folding Brownies range in price
from 50/6.
If you prefer a Kodak, they are available at prices from 47/6 to £lB.
Ask for the Kodak and Brownie Catalogues.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney ; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies Co,, Perth
“The Kodak Corner.” corner Lamkton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Now—the Whole of the Opera Played for You!
His Master’s Voice
ESI mm
mA
Y~ir
f\
SCENE FROM “CARMEN
Complete Sets, of Celebrity Records.
The Grand Opera Season is all too short for music-lovers. A
little while—and it is gone—a memory. But in your own
home, even though it be far in the country, you can have
Grand Opera every night. The Celebrities will play for you
—yourself as conductor—making wondrous music at the
touch of a finger that starts the record. Enjoy the whole of
the Operas—buy complete sets!
GILBERT & SULLIVAN’S, and other, Gems.
Complete Lists and Name of
Nearest Dealer on request.
The most brilliant Light Operas
ever given to the world. Are you
familiar with them? Selections
you may know—but why not own
the complete sets? They are
remarkable records.
TO OWN THESE RECORDS YOU MUST
BUY "HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
Yeomen of the Guard £3 13 6
Pinafore £3 10 0
COMPLETE IN BEAUTIFULLY-BOUND
ALBUMS.
Mikado, Double-sided, Black Label £6 17 6
Gonodoliers (do.) £6 17 6
Merrie England (do.) £6 17 6
British Composers £4 5 0
Persian Garden £4 2 6
Morning Prayer £4 0 0
“GRAMOPHONE”
Head. Trade-marl
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
‘■liis Master's Voire,”
Head. Trade-mark.
HIS MASTERS VOICE


m
A Dainty Laxative
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over—gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Ivogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane's Leading Hotel.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemist 9 and stores. Ladies
recommend them. lie sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you. have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gfh
PLATINUM at £26 an
ounce.
We desire to BUY in any quantities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
U\«k (9
,
m
K<v,
m
% /
m
w
m
mmm
m*.
mm . 2m
(LrS'A*)
mi?
6R£Y
HAIR
mmwtMTKSKH
BUY BEFORE THE RISE Takes Place.
mm
m
X69.—Black Leather “Sunshine”
Purse, poplin lining, fitted with two compart-
ments, inside slit pocket and pocket on back.
Size 7 x 3A in. Price 10/« each.
Have you seen our Ladies’ Leather
Alotor Hats? You should have one.
We are the Largest Leather Goods
Specialists in the Commonwealth. Send
us your requirements; we will fulfil them.
Try our Lay-By System.
EXPERT MAILORDER CO.,
G.P.O. Box 2575.
Also obtainable at THE AMERICAN BAG STORES, LTD.,
Corner Pitt 8 King Sts.; Strand Corner, Pitt St.; and Sydney Arcade, George St.
PAR PLATE
100 Per Cei\t Value
______
Beyond question, the choicest patterns ever offered in silver-plated
cutlery of its grade are those of PAR PL ATE—the low priced spoons
forks and knives, made by ONEIDA COMMUNITY LTD. Its rich
and varied designs appeal strongly to the artistic temperament, and the
knowledge that it is guaranteed for 10 years wear gives the greatest
satisfaction to all patrons. It bears a good plate and is the only silver-
ware of its grade protected by a definite time guarantee.
w ’» h P^ R p LATE Made in factories of THE
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LID. who make the famous COMMUNITY PLATE
(guaranteed for 50 years) and Oneida Community RELIANCE PLATE (guaranteed
for 25 years). Go to the leading shops and see what a sovereign will buy.
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
The Banking House, 228 Pitt St., SYDNEY
Established 1848, Incorporated 1881, at Oneida, N.Y., U.S.A.
sS
■
irnmHß
ii
■
A pure and perfectly dis -
distilled spirit of high medicinal
value. CO VEKSMEN T GUAR A NTEED
ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS
I i
DRY GIN
111 1 I I
I i i i
if- :
w*
Control Your Memory by tb*
ROTH METHOD
During last year in England 150,000 people took
the course.
Don’t grope around in tire dark any longer. Control your memory
and see instantly everything you want to remember.
Do you want to be further advanced? Why not then train YOU!i
MEMORY in the right way. ft is so easy, give it a trial.
Y'ou can learn the secret in one evening. Your ability to remen b-r
will attract your employer’s attention and promotion will folio,'
promotion thereby
Doubling and Trebling Your Salary.
Remit 42/- to the Standard Art Book Co., Ltd., 29 Woolbrokera
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the SEVEN BOOKS, com-
prising ROTH’S MEMORY COURSE will be forwarded you post free.
VARLIVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
Steamer Voices.
Calling through the falling twilight, riding
on the striding gale,
How the voices of the steamers lift and
. answer hail for hail;
Sea-words on the swift nor’-easter shrilling
over grey and damp,
“Hi there!” from the dipping tugboat.
“Ho there!’’ from the lurching tramp.
I am weary-souled and hungry for the world
that’s green and salt;
Lost amid the city’s mazes, mine the bond-
age, not the fault;
Cautious Reason soothes the senses, and the
narrowed life is right
Till I hear the steamer-voices calling on a
windy uight.
How the strong air bears their voices; yet
between the fitful lulls
All my fancy hears the tide-way wrenching
at their weedy hulls ;
And I hear a fading music like a shower of
silver rain,
As the wild gusts whip the white spray from
each tautened anchor-chain.
I can hear them, I can hear them; all the
bare and beaten street
May not hear the deep-sea phrases that to
me are passing sweet—
Wistful tones of silver music echoed from
the" shining ways
When tlie noisy bows were questing dowu-
ward through the tropic days.
Almost I can feel a warm wind blowing
softly on my face,
See again the golden gulf-weed drifting by
like scarves of lace;
And I feel my pulses beating for the joys
that once were mine,
Dropping slowly through (he seasons to the
southward from the line.
Ocean-stranger, are there schooners flutter-
ing yet off the Azores?
Are there Carib girls at Colon dancing still
on marble floors?
Are the palm-trees at Jamaica soft against
the afterglow?
All my heart Can hear the answer, and . I
know that, it is so.
Steamer whistles! Steamer whistles!
Steamer bells that toll and toll,
Rolling like the tide-of memory on the dim
beach of the soul!
Steamer voices strongly speaking wonder-
words from overseas,
Like a group of yarning sailors with the
children round their knees!
N.S.W.
BOYCE BOUWDEN.
Treasure Trove.
If things were now as ouee they were
When seas were strange to sail
And bearded men with, rings of gold
And wondrous talk and tale
Came sailing home, to set agog
The folk of beach and cove,
I’d up and take the rovers’ track
In search of treasure-trove.
The good wind in my mainsail,
The broad blue sea aglow.
Tis west-away, or north-away,
Or east-away I’d go;
My Fancy at the helm should stand,
My skipper he would be—
His course by moon and star to set
Across the trackless sea.
It may be by the Isle of Pines,
Well-known in Old Renown,
We'd slow our ship and furl our sails,
And drop our anchor down ;
ind there, the fronded palms above
And scarlet flowers around,
We’d dig and dig till hoarded wealth
Of gold and gem we found.
Though Morgan was a pirate,
And Ividd a buccaneer,
And Spanish ships and Spanish towns
They ravished year oil year,
And though they planted sure and deep
Their plunder ill-begot,
Yet Fancy has the seeing eye
And knows each treasure spot.
If things were now as once they were,
No toil my limbs should tire,
For then a man might will his way,
And have his heart’s desire;
And he might quit his seaside hearth
On peril-paths to rove
With bearded shipmates, quaint and tall,
In quest of treasure-trove.
With Fancy as my skipper,
The wind a scented gale,
By isles of palm and isles of pine,
And coral isles we’d sail;
And now and now, by key and reef.
We’d stay to fill our hold
With gold doubloon and piece-of-eight
And candlesticks of gold.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Words.
Peace with a book beneath this green-glad
tree;
And in the flowery gully at my feet
Deaf stones too dumb for summer’s melody
And the long wind’s compassionate, slow
beat.
Rest’ with a book—your book all fire and
dew,
Wrought of the brown old earth’s eternal
youth;
Light, song and star-dream- —all the soul
of you,
Guarding herein the treasury of Truth.
Sleep with a book. A dead leaf falls on me,
So Nature yields her labor to the times.
But till the quiet of eternity
Love’s happy lips shall kiss to your green
rhymes.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


Rounding the Buoy on Plume
Plume has made good on all types of motors,
from the big cruiser to the portable motor on
the row-boat. Satisfactory motoring de-
pends upon freedom from engine troubles ;
therefore the question of benzine quality is a
most important factor with motor-boat
owners.
Motor experts agree that
PLUME BENZINE
is ideal for motor-boat owners
Plume vaporises instantly—that means easy starting.
Plume forms a perfect gas, leaving no trace of raw fuel
to cause carbon troubles. 1 lume is uniform ;it gives
sweet running and steady, reliable power always, and
a gallon takes you further.
Whether it’s a motor boat, a car, or a motor cycle,
Plume will give you maximum engine efficiency.
Don’t ask for Benzine—say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 22
mm
§£a?Z\Ys
El
w
m
IN
TS
OP
Ham
bacon.veau
T ONGUE.
No
Save Cooking.
Here is a delicious, hearty dish—a
meal in itself perfectly cooked and
all ready to serve .
€<
( Rex” Camp Pie
is made from the choicest cuts of
selected meats—cooked, blended and
spiced with a skill acquired through
long experience. It has a savor and
delightful fullness of flavor that you
will enjoy for any meal at any time.
Serve Rex' Camp Pie straight
from the tin with any Salad.
YOUR GROCER STOCKS IT.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Peckers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 1273
li
m
THE. PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF I’ERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The Popular ShilungTooth Paste |
Cleans tbe teeth without screeching
the brearb;b&rder?s rbe gams 1
MADE
Australia
M
v
w If your chemisl- or storekeeper
cannof supply, send \/s in stomps
t° Rocke .Tompsittc Co. Melbourne.
For convivial
occasions
Thorne s has a subtle, enticing flavor
that particularly recommends it for
use at banquets and all convivial
meetings where good fellowship is
engendered.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. Incomparable
WHISKY
Martell’s is not only a drink for the connoisseur,
but an invaluable medicinal spirit. It is stimu-
lating and strengthening to the convalescent;
invigorating and reviving to those who are over-
worked and “out-of-sorts.” Always look for
Martell’s Brandy
ft
Cigarettes—delicious, soothing, dainty,
fascinating—create happiness and restore
tranquillity wherever they are smoked.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 41.—N0. 2005.
THURSDAY, APRIL 8, 1920.
Price 6d.
THE LOST DOVE OP PEACE.
NOAH: “What’s become of that —— bad?"


The Bullrtonin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £l. (is. Od. per annum you can hate The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £ t 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be, crossed, and
dll Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters arc liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reprodube or translate any
part of the contents of tilin’: number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
o,r Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, sag,
■lOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receiX'C
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those,
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and W. Ihiwson and Sons,
Cannon House. Breams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, S Elect Street,
London, E.C.I/.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town,' Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.J G. S. Forsyth and Co., ’i’/I Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C. : Boston Hat Works, .109.1 Eighth
Avenue West. Calgary, Canada.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; Western News and Publishing
Co.. 10 Third Street, San Francisco. Cal., F.S.A.;
J. Boland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway BiHldings, Chicago,
F. ; Liberty News Co.. Seattle, Washington,
F.S.A. ; Uretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 21th Street,
New York: Queen City News Co.; Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal,, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency: 763 Richards
Street; Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn. Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Peader Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co.. Merchants,
Singauore.
CeyLon. — W. G. P. Per era. Id BniMe Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Eui. —.1. Barker, Suva; F. Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route.
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz.. t;d,; Bloz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Hid.; elsewhere, f/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
ffie
THURSDAY, APRIL 8. 1020.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCER.
~ , , „ ~ , ~ .
l iiE hreetrade papers allege that the voice
of the Country party has already been
raised to inquire what benefit “the primary
producer” will get out of the tariff. Judg-
ing by previous experience of the primary
. • •' .. , ... ,
producer, it is quite possible that some of
bun may take'up that hostile attitude, let
the fact stands out that no man is in more
urgent need of nevy factories—many new
factories scattered through all the country
towns—than he is. In the first place, lie,
like everybody else, wants to have his goods
made for him by people who are within the
reach of his own anti-profiteering laws, and
last year £95,000,000 worth of what Aus-
tralia consumed was supplied by people who
were outside our laws and who could charge
what they pleased just as if they were a
conquering army collecting an indemnity,
The importer's hold on this benighted, be-
wildered country has become so absolute that
he can even compel the few local manufac-
turers to sell through him. whereupon he
gaily puts up the cost of the primary pro-
ducer’s suit 100 per cent. Then the pri-
rnary gentleman has a special case of his own.
idle is the only person who has a surplus for
export in ordinary seasons—a surplus in
very few lines, certainly, for he is a great
sticker in ancient grooves, but still a sur-
plus. So he is the only person who is liable
to see more than a quarter of his crop
eaten up by the foreign shipowner and the
miscellaneous agents who prey on him like
vultures on a carcase. The city man who
merely imports his clothes is swindled only
one way. The farmer who exports his wheat
to pay for importing clothes is swindled
both ways. The only reason for this is that
the artisans who eat the surplus food are
not here but 12.000 miles away, and the
path to them is lined by middlemen and other
hyenas. The ideal country for the primary
producer would be one which made so much
for itself and under its own laws that the
imports of manufactured goods would be
not worth mentioning, and where the artisan
population, widely distributed over the coun-
try, would eat all the crops in ordinarily
good seasons. There would then not be
any middlemen worth mentioning, either:
and there would be no extraordinary rail-
way expenses In carrying food long dis-
tances to an enormous commercial city ou
the shore, for enormous commercial cities on
the shore would cease to be part of the
scheme of tilings. The surplus iu extra-good
seasons could be hoarded up by the State
after the fashion of Joseph in Egypt against
times of scarcity, and when the hoard failed
the country could import. Wheat is as
good a thing to import at a crisis as any.
other article.
The ideal implies that the primary pro-
ducer should not only back up Protection for
local industries so as to make customers for
himself, but also put his entire bucolic
soul into the work of breaking up the few
overgrown States into many small ones.
Then the new customers wouldn’t be wholly
in Sydney and Melbourne, which are often
far away, and the new industries wouldn't
be wholly there, under politicians and union
bosses whose joint and several ear is (.-hewed
by the importing interests. According to
the newest methods, it is quite common for
a union with members scattered over a big
State like N. S. Wales to be ordered to start
some frantic revolt by the vote of a sudden
meeting of members at the capital—a small
meeting made up largely of the unemployed
and the unemployable.;; and purely of locaj
men. In other words}' a poll is taken at
hardly any notice, and there, is only one
polling-place for the State, and tin' men who
desire the revolt; take the vote. This disas-
trous state of things grows worse instead of
better. New industries are worth having
even under these conditions, but nor nearly
so much worth having as they should be.
No country half as big again as the old Ger-
man Empire in Europe (and N. S. Wales is
b(l per cent, larger than old Germany,
though four of the seven divisions of Aus-
tralia beat it for size) ever amounted to
much with only one big commercial city and
one moderate manufacturing city (the same
city) in its vast area.
* * * #
But the ideal prc-supposes that the pri-
mary producer will make some real effort to
supply the local demand and will show some
resource and versatility at his own job. £o
far he hasn’t measured up to specification.
The cane-sugar industry was founded with
colored labor. The pastoral and wheat busi-
nesses were founded with convict labor and
later supported by cheap immigrant labor.
The cow-cocky occupation was largely based
on child labor. Apart from the digging up
of metals, which isn’t so much an industry
as a using up of the national capital, the
achievements of primary industry, apart
from these ventures, have been curiously
few and the whole business is stereotyped.
The present position as regards sugar is
a striking example. The diminishing area
under cane now amounts to about 186,000
acres, of which about 114,000 acres are
classed as “productive.” It is reckoned that
the whole yield of the fading industry will
be about 140,000 tons this year, and that
it will be necessary to import 120,000 tons
at famine price (sugar now costs £BO per
ton) to feed the population. Before the
war upset the world’s arrangements beet-
sugar, grown by white labor, was rapidly
supplanting cane. It was produced all over
Central Europe, and experiments, backed
up by the Victorian Government with its
lonesome factory at Maffra, showed that the
vegetable grows just as well in temperate
Australia as anywhere else. There is a
reliable local market, for only once in its
history has Australia not depended on im-
ports of sugar, whereas it is now quite a
number of years since there has been any
reliable local demand for more wheat. Yet
the hackneyed Governments struggle inces-
santly to persuade the hackneyed farmer to
grow the hackneyed grain for foreigners by
carrying it at half-cost ou the railways, by
guaranteeing a fixed price for the crop, and
by giving all sorts of aids in bad seasons.
The price paid for beet at the Vie. Govern-
ment factory yielded the cultivator over £7
per acre in 1914; about £l3 in 1915 ; £l4 in
1916; nearly £l6 iu 1917 and £l6 10s. in
1918. That last was 54 times the return
per acre for a 12-bushel wheat crop at ss.
per bushel. The prices improved and the
yield per acre improved as the farmers gained
experience. Yet the area under beet in 1918
was 1200 acres—only 107 acres more than
in 1914 and 120 acres less than in 1917.
The primary producer shied like a startled
horse from the new idea. Not only did he
show no inclination to strike out for him-
self with his own factories and apparatus,
but he made the sign of the cross when
he passed the Government institution, and
prayed to be delivered from new-fangled
schemes and the devices of witches and wiz-
ards. As for showing any sign of becom-
ing a large producer of cotton or flax, that
seems past hoping for until a new spirit is
born. Certainly there is a dreadful lack of
factories to use the.goods if they were grown,
but no effort is made by any Country party
to get the factories. And if they eventu-
ated there is no evidence that they would
receive any better support from the primary
producer than the beet enterprise has done
Also there is quite as much inducement to
grow raw cotton for export as raw wheat,
only the novelty of the idea kills it. Hops
are another simple raw material of which
the local supply never meets the local de-
mand. In fact, the list of primary products
that the primary producer doesn’t produce
is very long. Possibly the government-
the political, industrial, commercial and fin-
ancial government—of great imperial areas
by one city demoralised the primary pro-
ducer. and it isn't his fault that lie' waits
for an impulse from Flinders-lane or York-
street before he puts in a new crop. Pos-
sibly he deliberately made the overwhelming
cities —certainly he watched them grow till
they swallowed up the bulk of the popula-
H<m. nnrl made no serious nrotest—because
he liked something huge to lean against. Pos-
sibly the two things made each other. Pos-
sibly the debilitating doctrine that loans are
a substitute for labor and borrowing better
than enterprise started them both on a
downward track and then they simoly slid.
Anyhow, the facts are clear enough. And
the necessity for reform in the farmer’s own
interest is obvious enough. For nobody can
claim that the man on the land is reaping
anything like the reward that his hard toil
entitles him to. The Country party ought
to assist him. On present appearances, it
is just as likely to push him deeper into the
old. dusty, wearisome rut.
THE BEGINNINGS OF BOLSHEVISM.
The march of events in Germany during the
last, few months provides a clearer view of
how Bolshevism develops than the informa-
tion which has reached us from Russia in as
many years. The world’s censors, with the
imbecile cunning of their kind, allowed little
to be known of the origin of the great horror.
The Russian was depicted as a freak who had
taken to murder because he was uncivilised.
course there was horrible slaughter iu
Russia. When a nation of 170,000,001)
people is engaged in civil war and at the
same time is defending itself from outside
aggression on a 5000-mile front; when almost
everybody bears arms: and when a naturally
primitive race has had any liner feelings
which it ever possessed blunted by years of
warfare, there is bound to be plenty of des-
perate crime. But it well may be that the
Russian Bolshevik was only a junior part-
ner in his country’s great blood-letting in-
dustry. There are relatively few of him.
The Lenin party to-day is said to be less
than half the size of the Centre party. The
Bolshevik derived his power from hate,
supported _ by bold lying and quick
action. Urged on by these goads the
Russians marched through blood —some
guilty, more df it innocent —to the
same shining goal that the ultra-civilised
German Communists are making for. The
Russians have not reached the goal. It is
a mirage. After infinite suffering the
nation finds itself more or less where it
started, with no passion gratified but that
of revenge. And even revenge has only
been gratified in a partial fashion, since
many of the worst enemies of the people
have escaped.
«• * # *
Germany appears to be standing to-day
where Russia did ip 1017. There are the
same conditions—the hopelessness of a
beaten natidn ; the physical and mental
languor due to malnutrition ; the impotence
of the authorities2,tip rectify matters owing
to lack of transport and inability to get
raw products from abroad. Day by day for
months news-items have been issuing from
Germany which were the precursors of the
inevitable upheaval of last month. The
first outbreaks were directed, as they no
doubt were in Russia, against profiteers.
Every crowd requires a moral reason before
it will embark on crime. Once it has em-
barked the criminal element may be relied
on to extend and prolong the good work.
Ever since the Armistice the Germans have
been getting more and more to understand that
something in the community had cracked.
In fact, as in Russia, it was their old civil-
isation. Authority, which is a blessing that
is not appreciated till it has gone, was
almost dead outside the great cities. A
citizen decided that his neighbor was a
profiteer. lie killed him. No one in-
formed the police because in that district
there were no police. Someone else de-
cided to confiscate the profiteer’s ill-gotten
personal property. There were disputes and
more murders. Women began to stay in-
doors, and they were safe till it occurred to
someone to smash the doors. When un-
rest, expressed in 1 the form of scattered out-
breaks of anarchy, becomes serious, a
section .always appears which imagines that
it has a better recipe for stopping it than
the Government. Ivapp and his followers
imagined that they could pacify Germany
last month. Instead, they have demonstrated
either that the Republican Government is as
helpless as Kerensky’s was, or that it is in
secret sympathy with Bolshevism as a means
of escape from the Versailles treaty obliga-
tions, which is what the official French
press believes to be the case. Bolshevism
is never born without a hideous struggle,
even in such morally and physically broken
countries as Russia and Germany. The
hated ones who are to suffer expropriation—
the owners of factories and shops and as
many of their employees as are contented;
the landed proprietors big and small; the
well-paid Goverhment employees; and. usu-
ally, the regular soldiers and sailors—side
with the reactionary party. In the begin-
ning press correspondents always telegraph
a “dramatic collapse of the workers’ army
directly it came into conflict with the dis-
ciplined, officered and well-equipped Gov-
ernment forces.” The censors let just such
messages, through from Russia when the
Denikin campaign began. But those who
are interested in fomenting revolution have
a big start of the law-and-order division.
The people inflame each other with talk of
fantastically large fortunes ill-made and ■'ill-
spent;- of the owners of great estates who
have done nothing for the nation; and of
high prices. For these last a trader, who
is often innocent, being himself the victim
of devaluated money, is blamed. The
communist orator, often an honest man
though a lunatic, appears with his mon-
strous armory of promises. ' lie promises
that there will be no more hunger or cold,
that poverty will be banished, that the
“wage slaves” will have their shackles re-
moved, and that all will be placed on terms
of permanent equality. Defection begins
in the ranks of the party which has nothing
to promise but a reversion to the old order
of things. The beginning of the defection
stage is about due in Germanv now.
* * * #
.Tust as the published happenings iu Ger-
many of late, indicate to us how Russia’s
insanity came to pass, so developments in
Russia, which are now coming to the know-
ledge of the world, suggest the ultimate fate
of Bolshevism in' Germany. When Russia
arrived at Germany’s present stage the
nation found itself without any govern-
mental organisation at all. The poor in the
cities pushed into the palaces of the rich
and used the noartments communally; the
peasants parcelled out the big estates and
cultivated them. The obligation of service
which exists in the capitalist State having
departed, it was no one’s business to attend
to such matters as public sanitation l n
a few weeks the mediaeval civilisation of
the town was overthrown and the race <' o f
back behind even the tribal era. Each
family battled for its own hand agaoxt
epidemic disease and wandering criminal-;
In the circumstances the - appearance 'of
Lenin may, after all. have been a godsend
He and his Bolshevik colleagues represent
only a fraction of the population, but they
at least offered their country a scheme
and proceeded to put it into, effect. No one
knows yet all that is going on in Russia •
but certain details are clear enough. The
Bolshevik whose only employment is" homi
cide has gone out of fashion. The incor-
rigible assassins are probably now at work
in Germany, where, for some time to come
there should be ample scope for their gift*
The normal Russian has mostly settled down
to the life that he led under Czarism, with
differences —the outcome of War and Revolu-
tion—which do not tell in his favor. The
People’s Commissioners are fanatically
strong on two points—work and discipline
They realise that without both they cannot
pay and maintain the magnificent army
which is keeping Russia inviolate and them-
selves in power. Private loafing and any-
thing approaching the Government stroke in
the nationalised industries are offences pun-
ishable by the “Proletariat”— which is to
say. the Lenin Government. To strike is
a criminal offence and is dealt with as such
by the Government’s Red Guards, who are
indistinguishable in their methods from the
old-style police. Under this system Russia
is producing; so much so that Li,ovn
George was moved to comment enviously
the other day on its “bursting granaries’’
and to express the wish that Britain eouid
buy some of their contents. But regarded
as a land where it is always afternoon,
where all are prosperous and no one toils
more than three or four hours a day. and
not at all if he prefers to rest—in that
respect the place is a fraud.
* » » .
Any country in the world can acquire Bol-
shevism nowadays if its rulers and rich
men are only stupid enough. It is as easv to
achieve as a punch on the nose in a dis-
putatious bar. An unsuccessful war is not
a necessary preliminary. There have been
outbreaks in victorious Italy, beginning with
the looting of shops in the northern cities
as far back as last year. Bolshevism no
more springs from war than wholesale assas-
sination springs from Bolshevism. It emerges
rather from wild finance. 'There would pro-
bably have been no Bolshevism even iu Rus-
sia if the world had run Armageddon on a
solvent basis. As the different Governments
elected to go on a series of wild financial
drunks, to Hing around cheques in the form
of paper money which they could not honor
and to borrow on unrealisable securities,
someone had to suffer. The sufferers are
the millions who must pay. in the more or less
bogus money which is handed to them every
week, for real goods such as bread and
boots. The more imitation money that a
nation issues and the more it borrows the
harder it makes life for all but the rich. The
spectacle of the rich becomes a chronic irri-
tant to the poor. And then there are the
folks who are trying to get rich—or richer.
Their personal peril is considerable, though
few of them realise it till it is too late; and
they are a peril to the State. In America
there are various Acts aimed at profiteering,
but in the last resort the Government and
the Justice Department are depending on
the commonsense of the trading community.
Hundreds of associations have appointed
vigilance committees to investigate cases of
over-charging, and if necessary prosecute the
offenders. They are doing it as a matter of
business in the same way as they would in-
sure against fire or burglary. Australia
should be one of the last places on earth to
adopt Bolshevism. Most Australians have the
intelligence to realise that communism leads
nowhere; that man, in the mass, cannot
escape from toil and plenty of it. But such
upheavals as Germany is experiencing now
have nothing to do with pure reason. They
are a gesture of hate directed against incom-
petent Authority. It is only necessary that
social conditions here should faintly approach
those of Central Europe and the new-old
epidemic will be with us. And Bolshevism
as . conducted by a full-blooded Australian
crowd might be something that the world
would not soon forget.
THE TREATMENT OF T.B.
w hen a man of moderate means or resources
in Sydney gets “lungy” his doctor immedi-
ately orders him to the Blue Mountains.
Only the poor are sent to sanatoria. If a
public servant or his wife is involved he
immediately asks for a transfer there, and
a tradesman or professional man will try
to buy a business or practice. So there
Site towns in the big, scattered district where
most of the shopkeepers and professional
practitioners, as well as the cabmen and
other odd workers, and the great majority
of the permanent residents are from families
with a T.B. in them. Again, many cases
are sent rrom other States and from India.
Ceylon. Singapore and other white Asiatic
settlements. These in former times went to
Switzerland, but the war stopped that, and
the Blue Mountains district is found to be
every bit as good and cheaper. The board-
ing-houses have thus always a percentage of
light or convalescent cases who, having had a
course of open-air, good food and early
hours, are apparently quite healthy. There
is, in fact, very little wrong with them, and
the chance of infection is most remote. Risk
could indeed be annihilated but that the suf-
ferers know that the instant they take pre-
cautions they disclose their condition, and
such is the exaggerated fear of infection that
they hide their complaint. If these convales-
cents used .sputum flasks and had the utensils
that come in contact with their mouths steri-
lised or kept separate, all risk of infection
would be eliminated and they could live
quite safely with healthy people. As it is.
they go to bathrooms and lavatories to ex-
pectorate ; and these places, being usually
damp and ill-ventilated, are the best breeding-
grounds for the baccili.
Such is the incidence of the disease on the
Mountains, and so primitive the sanitation
of the greater part, that, if the infectiousness
were anything like what it is usually be-
lieved to be, it should be impossible for any-


■>ne to stay there for a week and not become
infected. Years ago the consumptive was
wrapped up. placed close to a warm fire,
with doors and windows closed, and fed on
gruel. Bo I>l xerox, the man who first
preached the open-air treatment, .suffered the
usual fate of the medical pioneer—was
treated as a quack and a madman. Then
the Germans developed the idea and the pro-
fession adopted it, going to the other ex-
treme. and not being satisfied unless the
patient was dragged away from liis family
and stuck out in a forest, on the top of a
mountain or in a snowfield or a desert, and
fed on hard food and exposed to all the
winds that blow; and that is where the Aus-
tralian Public Health authorities are to-day.
Now, if this treatment —the treatment of the
State sanatorium —is right, how is it that
the thousands who have gone to the Moun-
tains and beyond, sleeping out, drinking
milk, taking things easy and being scrupu-
lously clean, have done so well? There is
no question whatever that if those same
cases now alive on the Mountains had gone
to Waterfall, Greenvale or other large State
institution, with isolation from friends, bleak
wards, monotonous food, want of privacy,
depressing atmosphere and enforced associa-
tion with uncongenial, hopeless and dying
cases, many of them would have died. Most
Australian consumptives already have good
food and fresh air, and gaiiL very little
in that way at a sanatorium; and treatment
based on the statistics and conditions of the
slums of London and Chicago is useless.
Sanatoria are needed, but they are wanted
only at the beginning of a sufferer's cure,
and should be mere places of observation,
education and classification, not permanent
homes for T.B.’s, as they are regarded in
every State at present. In six months
the sufferer in a sanatorium should have
formed hygienic habits, learned not to infect
others, to live in the open and to drink
milk. Then if he is incurable, with his
days numbered, he should go to a hospice
near his friends, where he can die comfort-
ably. If he is curable he should go on to
a settlement where he can work at his trade
or learn a now one under hygienic condi-
tions, at first with light tasks and short
hours: finally, when he is fit, on full-time
work. The chronic cases, who will never be
able-bodied again, but will live many years
with care, should also go to a colony, where
they can work within their limitations and
live with their families in specially-designed
cottages. At present nothing beyond the
soul- and body-stagnating sanatorium is pro-
vided, and the great majority of cases that
leave there .soon relapse.
Meantime, for those who escape the sana-
toria, the only advice is “Go to the Moun-
tains’’ ; and at present there is nowhere for
the convalescent to lodge but the ordinary
boarding-house or hotel. What is wanted
are boarding-places managed by qualified
nurses, of whom there are plenty available.
These could be run at ordinary rates, but if
necessary should be not only encouraged by
the authorities but even subsidised. Then
the consumptive who went to an ordinary
accommodation-house could be fined if he
went knowing himself to be a T.B. No
doubt the local councils would object. They
have been saying “Sh-sh-sh!’’ for years,
dreading the effect on the tourist business
of the mention of T.B. But if the notoriety
of the Mountains as a promiscuous con-
sumptive resort spreads much more, the dis-
trict will be killed as a pleasure resort. An
ostrich policy in this matter is fatal.
PHTHISIS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Day of Darned Hard Work.
Russia is moving rapidly, and its chame-
leon rulers take on new colors and shapes.
In the course of two exceedingly brisk years
it has tried every one of the nostrums which
its Gardens and Judds preach as the
remedy for all human ills. It has had the
levy on capital, the “taking over” of fac-
tories and workshops and banks and mines
and lands, the management of industries by
committees of workmen, the unrestrained
issue of paper money which became so cheap
that a loaf was worth as much as £5 of it
in places, aud the repudiation of the public
debt. The resulting spasm of prosperity or
anarchy or whatever it might be called hav-
ing spent itself, the high-handed rulers have
decided that there is no way to rehabilitate
Russia save by Darned Hard Work. A little
while ago compulsory, labor for everybody
was enacted, and because there are huge
arrears to catch up the working day was tem-
porarily fixed at 12 hours. Now some further
light is thrown on the situation by Philip
Snowden, ex-Labor member of the British
Commons and one of the leaders of the
Socialist movement. Returning from a visit
of inspection he reports that the little local
Soviets, the pride and joy of the early revolu-
tion, are being quietly but strenuously wiped
out. They talked too much, had too many
wild ideas' about finance and industry, elec-
tioneered too much, theorised too much, saved
the country too often with their mouths, and
kept too many hulking orators and organ-
isers away from pick and shovel industry.
In Germany also compulsory labor for able-
bodied men and women is suggested; and if
it hasn’t been suggested in Britain it cer-
tainly has been declared emphatically enough
that Darned Hard Work will alone save the
nation from an appalling disaster. There
is indeed no country in the world except
Australia where there has not been more
or less of an awakening to the fact that the
kaleidoscope has turned, and that the day
of hard toil has arrived. Australia still
clings to the faith that a country can grow
rich by doing five short days’ languid work
per week, devoting two days to expensive
amusements, following hardly any but the
simplest and most primitive industries, and
yet demanding as a right expensive imported
luxuries. And it appears to be still able
to carry on. How is it possible—how comes
it that Australia alone is exempt from the
times’ demand for Darned Hard Work? The
fact is it isn’t exempt: it only seems to be.
It is hiding the truth by making loans take
the place of production. Britain and France
have sworn off borrowing and are trying to
reduce their old debts. People have left off
lending to Russi#and Germany. If some of
the war countries had in proportion to popu-
lation the habit of charging their daily
luxuries to posterity on the same scale as
Australia, these are about the amounts that
would be pouring in per annum :
Franco ~ . . . . £200,000,000
Italy . ... 200,000,000
Germany ... •• 380,000,000
Russia .. . . 500,000,000
Under such blessed conditions there would
be no need yet awhile for any Day of Darned
Hard Work. Of course the thing would be
impossible, for there isn’t enough money in
the world to allow four big nations to live
in the fool’s paradise that Australia inhabits.
And the end of the giddy racket will come
here ; for arithmetic is the same in Australia
nf elsewhere. Time and space and cause
and effect are the same, and the sun won’t
stand still to prevent the bill falling due.
The longer the settlement is postponed the
more flaccid the nations muscles will be when
it takes its place on the chain-gang.
Our Nigger-employing Country.
Partly through various causes and partly
for other reasons it is estimated that Aus-
tralia’s output of sugar this year will be
only 145,000 tons. That is Hughes’s official
pronouncement, though, a few days earlier,
pessimists, who now prove to bo optimists,
talked of 180,000 tons. The prospective crop
is the worst bar one for 16 years, and
Australia, it is sa;d, will have to import
about 120,000 tons. But u very great deal
more—possibly 200,000 tons—will have to
be imported unless the jam factories are
closed, and if they are closed many people
will be out of work, and it will mean the
suspension of an export business which Dst
year brought nearly £2,000,000 into the
country. And that, in turn, will be a dread
ful knock to fruit-growing, and will make
land-settlement and the development of our
great natural industries look like a sick
serpent. The idea of a 145,000-ton crop
and 120,000 tons of imports is based on
a consumption of 265,000 tons, yet this coun-
try imported a little even In the year when
the local crop was 327,589 tons. Australia can
grow cane-sugar in the North and Centre
and the South down as far as the Clarence.
It can raise beet-sugar almost everywhere
except in the desert. Yet, in addition to the
failure to supply its own requirements in
flax and cotton and bananas and coffee and
rice and sago and etc (much etc.), it is
getting further behind than ever in sugar.
No other white community of Australia’s
size employs so many niggers and Spends so
much money on things grown by niggers,
and no other white community spends so
much of its substance on haulage in ships
owned by foreign profiteers (including
brown ones) and largely manned by folk of
assorted colors. It is doubtful whether
Proportional Representation will help in this
matter, or even the stoppage of work on
Saturdays. Perhaps a lot of hard ond
intelligent toil would assist. Maybe the
existing toil is misdirected through govern-
ance by the one or two overwhelming cities.
Certainly in no country is there more talk
about it being the manifold destiny of the
people to go on the land and produce raw
material, and at the same time more control
by the people of city streets and alleys.
• ♦
Wanted: A Tariff on Tripe.
“Fashion-plates and books: British Pref.,
Free ; Intermediate, 5 p.c.” Thus item 335 of
the new tariff. __ All the literary rubbish
of the United Kingdom, from the penny
dreadful to the Charles Garvice novel, is
to pour into this country unhampered. One
of the few services rendered by the war was
the partial barring of such rubbish. The
shipping shortage performed the work of a
50 p.c. duty. The immediate result was a
boom in the Australian publishing industry.
Many beautiful art-books appeared and sold
well; and a brisk trade began in Australian
fiction. In addition, Australia was begin-
ning to produce Commonwealth editions of
the works of overseas authors. The Ameri-
can example was followed in all hut ethics.
The efforts of the foreign writers were paid
for on an equitable basis, and at the same
time Australian workers were given em-
ployment. and the public got a reasonably
cheap article. Under the Hughes tariff
the printing paper which is used in books
and magazines carries a duty; and boards
for binding books are scheduled at 25 p.c.
But while the raw materials of the busi-
ness thus carry a duty, the manufactured
article comes in free. What chance, in those
circumstances, would the best of Australian
magazines have with, say, the Saturday
Evening Post, which under the U.S.A.
tariff has built up a circulation of over
2,000,000? Entering the Commonwealth
free, it was on sale, till recently, at six-
pence. And similarly with the tawdriest
London magazines and novels. Discrimi-
nation might well be made in our tariff be-
tween good books and bad; between educa-
tional works and those of a transparently
different character. Let scientific text-books
and educational works come in free. The
good old charge that knowledge is being
taxed will thereby be obviated. But on all
fiction, whether in book or magazine form,
there should be a solid impost of not less
than 50 p.c. The best represent a form of
luxury, and people ought to be prepared to
pay for luxuries; as for the rest, the demand
can be satisfied on the spot to the advan-
tage of local industry.
The Old Problem of the Black Hole.
The Health Society of N. S. Wales held its
annual meeting the other day to consider
the usual problem—how to put half the
population of a State of 309,432 square
miles into one city and yet not have that
city in the least degree overcrowded. This
is really a variant of the old question which
failed so badly of an answer 150 years ago
—how to put 146 people in the Black Hole
of Calcutta, each one having a detached cot-
tage and garden to himself and his faithful
dog gambolling on the verandah. It is pos-
sible that in some impossible way and by
an impossible expenditure the problem might
be solved, but nobody has yet shown that it
needs solving—not, at least, for another 500
years, and by that time new Qiethods may
prevail. There may be floating houses
with sky gardens, so that 100 tiers of people
may live above one another ; or. travel may
have been so speeded up and cheapened that
Canberra will be just as adjacent as Pad-
dington is now. The usual Fitzpatrick
and Earp and Purdy explained to each other
that
(1) The population oi the city of Sydney, which
lias been decreasing for many years as houses gave
place to warehouses, is growing again. This is
not because any of the warehouses are shifting to
new cities, but because people are crowding marvel-
lously into flats interspersed among the warehouses.
(2) Many of these flats are such marvels in the
Black Hole art of putting most people into, least
space that they arc worse samples than old houses
in Surry Hills which are condemned and marked for
destruction and only survive because no one knows
where to put the inhabitants.
(3) The new flats are therefore simply new slums.
At present they are preserved from obvious slumdom
by the new paint and varnish which will become old
(the Rocks area was wearing its first coat of paint
once) ; the new appliances which will become obsolete
(Surry Hills once represented the last effort in the
up-to-date fittings and fixtures of civilisation) ; and
the fact that they are the latest fashion (the nobility
dwelt in Bussex-street once), and therefore the most
expensive fashion. But when better and more expen-
sive thing** take their place they will become what
they really are—tenement houses. Lack of space
is the one infallible earmark. At present they pose
as pretty toys or dolls’ houses to disguise their
malignant stuffiness, so people cook in kitchenettes
and pig in roomettes and sleep in bedettes. But
when BiM<, the wharfie, and his family come to
doss in them they will be just acknowledged
rookeries.
All these matters Fitzpatrick and Earp
and Purdy told all over again to one another
and got no for'arder. For as everybody in
the city assumes that the place which has
already annexed the population that be-
longs to 154,716 square miles must be helped
and encouraged to annex more people, there
isn’t much to be said. That the 146 deni-
zens of 'he Black Hole should have a cot-
tage and garden apiece is, however, admitted
all round. The admission is supposed to be'
a sign of progress; and if the slum-dweller
who is shocked at his surroundings is ahead
of the one who isn’t shocked, then it is
a sign.
♦
Labor’s Chance.
The N. S. Wales Labor party, if it gets
office, will have so narrow a majority that, it
will have no hope of building the New
Jerusalem before Christmas. The Pro-
gressives won’t vote Labor on any of the
questions which Labor regards as of vital
concern, and there is nothing more certain
than that Labor will refuse to buy Progres-
sive support by doing any of the things that,
party specially wants But there is still
no reason why a Labor Ministry should
.stand stock-still The Progressives cannot
be profitably coaxed; therefore a wise politi-
cal strateeian will find a point at which they
can be driven That point is decentralisa-
tion. All parties have sworn great oaths
to decentralise with all their might; but they
have never got past words. Now let Labor
take the thing up and the Progressives must
for their political souls’ sake support it. A
beginning is easy. A mere fractional spur
of railway would waken Port Stephens from
slumber. The State, under Labor control,
lias tried being a fishmonger, a carpenter, a
brickmaker and a number of other things;
now it has an opportunity for a fresh de-
velopment which, while perfectly novel,
would have none of the risks of experiment
about it. Let it become a city landlord.
If a beginning were made with a Port
Stephens railway the State could acquire and
lease all the land about the future port.
Demand would be created for it by a turn
of the pen, the railway and other works
would finance themselves out of the rents,
and the benefits to the northern farming
communuity would be so obvious and great
that no Progressive who hoped to remain
politically alive could refuse to support the
scheme. There are other ports only a little
more difficult of access which could be dealt
with later; hut to make a beginning is the
great thing. Decentralisation is or was
part of the Labor platform; but it is a part
which differs from some other parts in being
likely to spread a lot of prosperity. And
it is a fact well established by Maoriland
experience from 1801 to 1895 that general
prosperity makes Labor reforms much easier
to carry and much more palatable to the
community.
»
Science in Australia.
The investigation of the hookworm affords
another example of Australia’s habit .of
leaning up against a post and getting some
one from outside to do its scientific work.
The hookworm is about the biggest medical
problem of tropical Australia, and one that
vitally affects the future of the sugar indus-
try and, generally, of the white race in
those parts. Yet what sort of a show do
the Commonwealth and the State of Queens-
land, both most deeply and directly
interested, make in the matter? Though
there is an Institute of Tropical Medicine
at Townsville, the initiative in making a
survey of the conditions and getting the
ground clear for action was taken by Dr.
Waitf. and other emissaries of the Rocke-
feller Foundation (U.S.A.). And when the
statements as to what they found were
published, the Commonwealth High Commis-
sioner in London manifested his gratitude by
a stupid and ignorant denial of the facts.
However, after the Americans had blazed
the way and shown what an aw’ful menace
the thing is, stunting its victims both phy-
sically and mentally, and almost unsexing
them in the worst cases, the Commonwealth
agreed to help pay the cost of a campaign.
And then the State of Queensland, which
should have been the first to move, was
dragged in by the hair of the head and
dragooned into paying its third. It would
he churlish, and foolish too. to refuse the
freely-given aid of the experts of the Rocke-
feller Foundation, and perhaps there is no
reason why we should not let the Founda-
tion assist to cover the expenses. But Aus-
tralia ought to have taken the lead instead
of playing a poor second fiddle. There are
other big scientific problems that we ought
to tackle, but if they are left much longer
we will come in at the tail of an
American procession. Mark Sheldon. Com-
monwealth Commissioner to the U.S.A., has.
according to the cables, been blowing off
steam in an after-luncheon speech in
N’York about the Institute of Science and
Industry and the Bureau of Commerce and
Ditto. Yet the solemn truth is that
the Institute hasn’t any real exist-
ence after four years of talk—that it
Cim’t even get £5OO for the investigation
oi: a big thing like coal-tar products. As to
the Bureau of Commerce, it is a skeleton
with £l5OO a year for a director and £ll3O
for all the rest. Some, allege that the Insti-
tute isn’t practical enough. If it isn’t it
ought to be either improved and put on the
right lines or knocked on the head. So
far, it is a mere pretence, left by the Min-
istry that created it to make an appearance
of furthering industrial science. If Australia
isn t going to be run over by people who
do believe in industrial science, it will have
to get a real move on, and not olav at the
thing.
The Price of a Salute.
Tm; Defence Department continues to
struggle with the case of the Permanent
ranker who distinguished himself in the
A.l.f. Under the latest scheme 22 appoint-
ments as Q.M.’s on the Instructional Staff
are to go in rotation to those “who obtained
most senior rank in the A.1.F.” Those who
were lieut.-colonels or majors in the A.I.F.
will become honorary majors. A further
20 temporary appointments are offered —
terminable upon Duntroon graduates becom-
ing available —and those who accept will
“bo granted the substantive rank of captain
on the Unattached List, A.M.F.” A flat-
rato of £3OO per annum is offered to all
hands from ex-lieut.-colonels downwaids.
The present pay of (say) an R.A.G.A. chief
gunner is £285 per annum. Ilis 9d. a day
war allowance brings it up to £2OB 135.: his
uniform and kit are issued free of charge t
and his quarters cost him at least 50 per cent,
less than they could be got for in civil life.
8o that he will pay about £lOO per annum
for the privilege of culling himself major
should he accept the Department’s offer.
An odd discrepancy about the new Head-
quarters scheme is the fact that while the
fighting ex-A.I.F. officers —or, at any rate,
the most senior of them —are required to
drop a step in rank, “military staff clerks
are offered honorary rank equivalent to the
rank held by them on active service." If it
was decided to discriminate, a more equitable
arrangement would surely have been to grade
the applicants on a basis of proved merit.
Instead of giving one man preferment
because he saw no service in the face of
the enemy, an attempt might have been
made to reward another because he saw a
great deal. The long-headed individual who
was determined not to die made the
seniority test a matter for derision in every
branch of the service. The lusty young
A.M.C. major who never left his native city;
the Motor Transport field-officer who did not
miss a stunt in his pleasant back-area vil-
lage—Australia, as^well as the A.1.F., has
the correct viewpoint about these at this
time of day. The Defence Department
alone finds them more worthy of distinction
than the bona fide soldiers. In the event
of its being contended that the seniority
tradition cannot be violated in consideration
of eminent services abroad, it may be pointed
out that it has been so violated in a military
Order which appeared as recently as last
month. Major-General White is there de-
servedly placed ahead of several officers who
are senior to him. But, after all, the king
anomaly as regards the permanent rankers
before whom commissions are being dangled
is in the matter of pay. If a man holds
the rank of major, or manager of a busi-
ness, or guard on a train, and if lie is fitted
to do the necessary work, then the least his
employers can do is to pay him the wages
that go with the position. In offering a
man a major’s rank at less than a subaltern’s
pay, the Defence Department is acting in
the spirit of those capitalists who, in the
days when Unionism was unlawful, paid
their employees less in proportion as they
needed the work.
Women and the Territory.
A white woman from the Far North:—
So Justice Ewing, Commissioner of Inquiry,
pities the housewives in the N.T., does he? I
don’t. I'm one of them myself and have spent
more years in the Territory than he has spent
weeks; and I’ve travelled more miles there
than he has travelled yards. I’ve baked my
own bread, milked goats, washed, ironed, scrubbed
and sewed. I’ve tried gins at housework and found
them not worth their salt. My house is the ordinary
type in the N.T.—two inside rooms, nine-foot
verandah all round; kitchen and bathrbom (an
annexe. The floors are of cement, washed out twice
a week, and swept daily. The verandah is sitting-
room, sewing-room, dining-room and in hot weather
bedroom. Matting which can be easily removed
and shaken covers the cement. Most of the fur-
niture is cane or wicker-work, easy to keep clean.
In fact, an hour's work a day will keep the place
spotless. Judge Ewing saw little or nothing of
homelife in the N.T., and the few houses he did
visit probably had half-castes and Chinese to do the
work, while the missus lay on a lounge and gasped
at the heat. Ilut the average everyday woman who
does her own housework and cooks her husband’s
meals and makes her children’s clothes and does
the family washing doesn’t worry about the ther-
mometer. Except for the sake of the children’s
schooling, the X.T. contents me. As for the health
of the youngsters, they are as strong and as sturdy
as one can wish. I know one white child here who
weighed 331 b. at five months old: it was entirely
breast-fed, from a mother Territory-born and bred.
What we women do object to are the southern
strikes and the 20 per cent, levy on their wages our
men have to pay to keep from starving the families
of those who have downed tools. As a result we
and our children have to go short of milk and
sugar, flour and butter. Our men get high wages,
but we pay Is. Id. per tin for Nestlc’s milk, 7d.
per lb. for potatoes, Cd. per lb. for onions, 13s.
per bag (501 b.) of flour, 17s. per bag (701 b.) of
sugar, 4.5. per dozen for eggs, 2s. lOd. per lb. tin
for butter, 2s. (id. per lb. for tea, Is. 3d. per 21b.
tin of jam, 2s. per tin fruit, 2s. 6d. per tip of
salmon, 12s. 6d. per tin of kerosene. But I like
the N.T., and I'd never live south again if 1
could help it.
-+•
John Bull’s Troubles in S*Africa.
No conquered and annexed white race that
preserves its individuality seems ever to be
contented. If the annexed white folk are
assimilated as the Normans and Britons


THE
t afj
&
-2-
- its
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
IIYIA which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858
£5,000,000 Directors : —SIR JOHN GIUCE, Chairman.
£3,000,000 EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
1,140,000 J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
£3 140 000 Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
838,000 Chief-Manager: E. 11. WRF.FORD.
£3,068,000 1 Drrwlv Chief Manager: JAMES WILS'AN.
si ft Office 60 Pitt St. Manager ;R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager: E. J. OSBORNE.
y George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: j, v. G. iiadley.
Pranches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE; 7 Lothbury, E.C. 2,
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up. ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability of
Proprietors
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND | CA’C' I | 3 BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
sales or g| CES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Centra 11 S9o
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street. Svdrn-y - - - £" Olle L
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings. Creek Street, Brisbane Phone liU
were absorbed by the French, the business
pans out well enough; but the Englishman
is a poor assimilator. He hasn’t made much
difference in the bulk of the Welsh, few as
they are, and despite the fact that he made
a beginning at the job before the Conquest.
He made progress with the Gaelic high-
landers only because they mostly left the
country—if that could be called progress.
So far from assimilating the Irish they have
absorbed the bulk of the English settlers and
made them and their descendants Irish. The
French-Canadians remain as separate in
Quebec as the Israelites did in Egypt, and
show no enthusiasm for their forced British
allegiance. And the feature of the South
African elections is that the Nationalists
(more or less republicans) have risen from
being third among five groups with 27 mem-
bers to being top group with 43. They
aren’t a majority, but they have more than
one-third the votes, and it is possible that
some of the 21 Laborists include republican-
ism among their principles, in which case
the dissatisfied element counts for more
than appears. Yet the Boers have been
officially flattered to a remarkable extent.
Their surrender was a lofty and dignified
affair following on a war in which they won
most of the battles; in fact, even when their
case was hopeless in the face of overwhelm-
ing numbers they were paid to surrender
and cut the proceedings short. Their race
has supplied all the Prime Ministers that
the Union has had up to date; indeed, they
were such outstanding men that no other
arrangement seemed possible. Both of them
loomed largely and brilliantly in the war,
and reflected a radiance on their people
which might have been missed if they had
remained independent. Annexation gave the
Boers a chance to cut a bigger figure in
' world politics than was done by any other
nation of their size. Louis Botiia had
butter handed to him on a lordly dish as
the first Prime Minister in the widespread
empire who led an army in the field. The
old Transvaal capital is now not only the
Transvaal capital, but also the Union’s Can-
berra, or seat of government. Yet an
apparently-growing section isn’t satisfied. The
trouble seems to spring directly from the
better-class Englishman’s attitude of lofty
tolerance, his obvious efforts to conceal his
self-admitted superiority lest he should hurt
a poorer creature’s feelings. If the Boer
race had produced a score of Napoleons
instead of one Botha, and if it had been one
of them instead of Focit who dragged the
Allies out of the pit or*away from the brink
of the precipice and saved civilisation, it
would make no difference in the higher-class
Englishman’s attitude. As for the other kind
of Englishman in South Africa, his position
is in many cases that he will never forgive
the race which licked him on so many battle-
fields and had to be manned down at last
with such stupendous numbers that the
situation became ridiculous or else tragic.
General Herzog, the chief irreconcilable,
put the case to an English statesman when
he said, in effect, that there were few con-
crete grievances, but that the Englishman
was too heavenly for plain drab Boers,
especially Dopper Boers, to live with.
4 .
Applications were invited recently for
appointment to the honorary staffs of cer-
tain Sydney hospitals. Around this circum-
stance a tornado of recrimination is rag-
ing. The appointments are honorary: but
they carry with them many material advan-
tages. Nominally they are for three years.
In practice they have hitherto been life-
appointments. When the war came most of
the best men left, and the hospital staffs,
which, in the nature of things, contain the
best men, were proportionately depleted. To
fill the' vacancies a number of men who
for Whatever reason had not chosen to serve
abroad were brought in. The war being
over, it is now desired that the appointment
of these doctors should be terminated and
their places filled by returned men. This
is reasonable, and in the interests of the
public, as well as being patriotic. Most of
the war-appointees only got on to a hospital
staff because their better-qualified rivals
were doing their duty in another part of the
world. But there is a second class under
consideration ; and a powerful body of leading
doctors are in favor of dealing with them
as well. These are the men who were on
the staffs of hospitals before August, 11114,
and did not take on war-service. The idea
of the A.M.C. men and their supporters is
that they also should be ousted, as oppor-
tunity offers, in favor of ex-M.O.’s; and
that, furthermore, on any fresh hospital
appointment becoming vacant, preference
should be given to a returned man. The
latter may be a sound enough contention;
but for the very reason that the men
appointed during the war ought to go. the
pre-war men should be kept on. The former
w r ere chosen in an emergency on the explicit
understanding that they were only there till
their betters came back. The latter got their
jobs in open comnetition with the best of
their colleagues. They may or may not be
poor-souled patriots: but if their skill and
knowledge are such that their removal would
amount to punishing the general public—
ex-soldiers aud their families amongst the
rest —they should not be disturbed, in view
of the circumstances of their original
appointment.
The new system of voting at N. S. Wales
elections is a failure. It doesn’t get the
results it aims at. Take North Shore for
an example—North Shore because it had
the greatest number of candidates. Five
members were wanted. Now it would be
quite possible for one man—say the gener-
ally-popular P. B. Colquiioun— to' be in-
cluded among the five of every man and
woman who voted and yet he might be
defeated. If Colquhoun were the fifth
man in 19-20ths of the papers (that is to
say, if 95 p.c. of the voters wanted him to
b£**a member) but only l-20th put him first,
he might even be thrown out on the very
first count. In North Shore it was neces-
sary to vote for 23 candidates, marking
them in the order of preference; yet not
one elector’s third preference was counted.
No vote anybody gave after the second
weighed the fraction of an ounce.
*
From one of the brotherhood: —
On March 18, under the heading of “A Word
About Sardine-tins,” The Bulletin earned the
gratitude of the public-school teachers of N. S.
Wales by drawing attention to the glaring inadequacy
of accommodation in the schools and to the absence
TOO LATE.
CANDIDATE (er-anti-eonscriptionist ): “If I had my way the Prince of Wales wouldn't
he coming. We don't want any princes ’ere.”
VOICE: ''Well, you never protested when the Crown Prince was thinking of coming!”
o£ provision for the ordinary decencies of life for
the teaching staff. But it is not correct that teachers
themselves are largely to blame for not drawing
public attention to the matter. Comprehensive reso-
lutions bearing on the subject were passed at the
last Teachers’ Annual Conference. These were taken
as the first business of the day and carried unani-
mously at the largest session of the Conference. The
fact was emphasised that, although in Britain several
millions were voted during the war for education
extension, here things remained in status quo. No
political leader, no educational leader, no section of
the press had done anything to awaken the nation
from its apathy in regard to a progressive national
educational policy. Although reporters from all the
dailies were present, all mention of the debate and
practically even of the resolution w-as suppressed.
Why?
Because, as The Bulletin previously sug-
gested, the teachers haven’t blazed with
indignation. That’s why.
Willy Kelly, ex-M.P., complained last
week of “the dugouts in the central De-
fence Administration.” The Bulletin’s
idea is that the trouble is with the dug-ins.
The holder of a dugout at least goes when
a better man appears.
“Sydmas” : The old dame from West Syd-
ney was plainly suspicious of the whole pro-
portional proceedings, asked a dozen ques-
tions and then voted. Five minutes later
she returned and asked to see her signature.
It was shown. “Thank Ileayen, I dotted the
‘i,’ ” she said. “I feared it might have been
informal, after all.”
The Free Trade and Land Values League
of Victoria has some bright ideas. It has
bestowed its “auspices” on an address de-
livered by a Melbourne man on the question
“Does Building Houses Increase Land
Values?” Now it should discuss whether
the growth of population increases the num-
ber of inhabitants. If no houses had been
built on the sites of Sydney and Melbourne
what would corner blocks now be worth?
From the Gallery :
Unless the British rule is to apply and the Prime
Minister 'for the time being is to be granted a dis-
solution whenever (subject to constitutional limits)
he applies for it, Governors-General are likely to
take the view that they should exhaust the possi-
bilities of the House to carry on the government.
Assuming that the G.-G. (Ferguson or his successor)
will follow the old dictum, as' the Parliament is
brand-new, it would be as well if somebody who is
possible for the job under-studied for the Prime
Ministership. War-time supporters of Hughes are
turning critical and show an inclination to carp.
Like millinery, political leaders go out of fashion
for a season or two, if not altogether. Vie. got
tired of the fierce struggle between Berry and
Service and put up with the O’Loghlen-Bent corn-
bination for 20 months. Then Berry and Service
came to terms. Bridge-building in polities is an
art still practised.
The just-published balance-sheet of the
municipality of Melbourne shows debts
£712,000, and against them a sinking fund
c juookii r»~ v,0 0 5c. vwav;.,
of £182,511. On the same basis V t a,
with a debt of a. shade over £82,000,000,
would have a sinking fund rather exceeding
£20,000,000, but when last heard of the fund
was less than £2,000,000. The city’s first
loan (£125,000) falls due in 1922, so it is
fully provided for. The next one (£58,000),
falling due in 1925, is also provided for, bar-
ring a few pounds; and then the fund will
start in pursuit of a loan due in 1931 and
be ready for it also. The State’s loan of
£6,000,000, falling due this year, isn't pro-
vided for, and Attorney-General Robinson is
now on his way to London to be remorselessly
squeezed over the renewal. The State's loans
of £3,000,000, due in 1922, and £7,000,000,
due in 1923, both payable in London, aren’t
provided for either, so Robinson or some-
body will be squeezed again. The muni-
cipalities are solvent and honest because the
State Parliament orders them to be so. but it
passes comprehension why the State doesn’t
order itself to be honest at the same time
and make one job of it.
“P.X.”: The promoters of the Baby Week
shows in Sydney were all wrong, assuming
that their idea was to (1) encourage mater-
nity, and (2) promote the welfare of the
little Australian. Instead of having an
exhibition of infants there should have been,
first, an exhibition of landlords who don't
object to let their houses to tenants with
young children; second, an exhibition of
domestic helps who don’t object to take ser-
vice in a family with young children. It
mightn’t have taken a large hall to hold the
exhibits; but those that were there would
deserve better of the Babies’ Welfare
Society, or whatever it is, than any other
two lots of people in the community.
The swan-song of the Holman (N.S.W.)
Ministry was as foolish as the rest of its
songs. It was tootled by Treasurer Fitz-
patrick, who said: (1) That the per
cent, loam of £1,000,000. with the Govern-
ment paying both State and Federal income-
tax on the interest as a sort of bonus, was
doing pretty w li. (This money is for the
aid of drought-stricken farmers, so even
charity comes out of loans.) Also (2) that
revenue was coming in so well that he had
had hopes of reduced railway rates and
reduced taxes. A man who can’t see any-
thing grotesque about reducing taxes while
borrowing money at outrageous interest to
spend on charity should be keeping the
books of a lunatic asylum, not of a State.
Apparently Australia may get rid of the
vulgar ostentation of six imported State
Governors and drift quite accidentally into
the plain, sensible methods of South Africa
and Canada. At the same time it is a pity
the reform wasn’t done decently and in order
and by all the States at once, instead of hap-
pening because the Queensland Government
snatched the local appointment for a stren-
uous politician who felt he could do with a
job and a salary. If Australia had a State
Church politicians would appoint each other
to bishoprics. They already take Agent-
Generalships. High Cominissionerships, Trade
Commissionerships, Railway Commissioner-
ships, Land Commissionerships and Judge-
ships, and now the Governor’s job looks like
a new perquisite.
A winter visit to I’etrograd :
Prtrograd has just about finished its second com-
plete winter under the Bolshevik regime, and it
was probably the horror of it that caused the dic-
tators to declare for compulsory labor, 12 hours’
work per day and the abolition of the workmen’s
councils of management which talked much and
produced little. Petrograd was in 1913 a gay, rich,
picturesque city of 2,300,000 people, many of them
rather dirty and rather drunk, but on * the whole
fairly happy. Now it is a place of about 800,000
frost-bitten skeletons. In one respect it always
lived on the edge of disaster. The winter is six
months long, and the average temperature for three
months is 17 degrees, which means 15 degrees belo\t
freezing-point. It has been down to minus 38, which
is 70 below freezing-point. To the north and east
the weather is colder : to the south for a good dis-
tance just as cold. The river, the lakes, the canals,
and the sea all freeze hard ami freeze long. The
first Bolshevik winter was b d, though there were
still old stores on hand, aid the death-rate was
appalling. During the second multitudes froze in
their beds, and being frozen their burial didn’t
matter. If there shot Id be a third winter of th-
ole! Bolshevism there would be no more Petrograd.
Jt is worth noting that the few books written in
apology for Bolshevism were all the work of sum-
mer visitors, and even in the summer the mis-
managed country very barely lived from hand to
mouth. Petrograd may be enjoying the blessings
of freedom ; but freedom is a poor tiling to a corpse
that is so hard that it cracks if. it is dropped on the
floor.
“Figurehead’’: The days of the coal-burn-
ing steamer on the Australian doast are
numbered. The Anglo-Persian Oil Co., in
which the British Government and the Inch-
cape combine are heavily interested, lately
received permission from the Westralian
Government to establish an oil base and lay
pipes along the Premantle wharves. A
similar application is now being considered
by the Melbourne Harbor Trust, and it will
probably be granted. Sydney will also be
approached in due course. Incheape has got
a great deal of Australian coastal shipping
under bis influence, and bids fair to get
more. Already orders have been issued for
the conversion of P. and O. liners. Some, of
the Union Co.’s ships are already fitted for
oil fuel. Others are in course of conversion.
The A.TJ.S.N. and Burns-Philp steamers
will probably follow. The main item in
favor of oil, as far as the owner is concerned,
is that it does away with the firemen, who
have long been a thorn in the shipowners’
side. It is also easier to load and handle
and more economical, of space. The Aus-
tralian depots are to be fed by a line of tank
steamers running between Australia and the
Persian Gulf, and when the concern gets
into good going order Stokehole Bill will
have to earn his beer in some other calling.
It will be hard for him to pick one which
holds more discomforts.


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia
Mr. Arnery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of i which
each link trill be primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence”
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
dsgdfg
POLITICAL
POINTS
Proportional representation, as N. S.
Wales knows it, killed so many men whom
the electorates never intended to slay that it
reminds this paper of a woman throwing a
half-brick at a fowl and hitting all the rest
of the universe.
After all, the Anzac tweed industry ought
to shake hands with itself. The Govern-
ment might have put an excise duty of ."is.
per yard on its product, and that wouldn’t
be any worse than it has done to the indus-
trial alcohol business.
A new soldiers’ party, consisting of 10
Nationalists and three Hayseeds, and chair-
manned by Fleming, M.II.R., promises to
be another thorn in the flesh of William
Hughes. The new crowd has no ambition
to harass the Ministry, but the other day it
took a couple of hours oft' to suggest a
broadening of the Gratuity Bill to cover a
lot of cases not previously qualified to re-
ceive the coin. Hughes declined to consider
these proposals on the ground of economy,
but he didn’t turn them down with his
usual arrogant negative, and in fact seemed
very reluctant to give a negative at all. The
warriors are now overhauling the Repatri-
tion Bill section by section, and wherever
they discover need for improvement they
will make “recommendations,” in the hope
that Hughes won’t drive them to use a
stronger word.
Hughes has not yet asked Parliament to
thank the sailors and soldiers who helped
to win the war. It was expected that
Monash would have been summoned long ago
to the bar to receive an expression of Aus-
tralia’s gratitude. But, for once, Birdwood
is in the way.
W. R. N. Maloney, who is everybody’s
friend and also M.II.R. for Melbourne, is
by no means so young as of old, and last
week his condition was serious. It always
has been. If his condition had been humorous
he would hardly have conspired with Higgs,
whose condition is also serious, to move in
favor of the initiative and referendum. After
they bad labored heavily and historically
over the subject it proved that the House
was with them unanimously and had been
trying to get in a word edgewise and say so.
The trouble is that no one knows exactly
how to work the initiative, and as for the
referendum Australia has a lot of it already
and says “No” every time. It would even
say “No” to the Canberra capital if it had
a chance.
After 22 years of Parliament and 10
consecutive years of office, William Holman
made almost as clean a sweep of himself as
William Ilohenzollern, losing his Premier-
ship, his Government and his seat in one
act. A few years ago Premier Neil Lewis
made an even greater clearance in Tasmania,
for he lost all his Ministry except the Upper
House part of it. which the people couldn’t
get at. However, the disaster is only tem-
porary. Already plans are being made tor
Holman’s triumphant return at his country s
call (</ la Asquith) after a brief period of
retirement, during which the void he left
will be appreciated. Then after overwhelm-
ing his enemies he is to go into the British
House of Commons and carry all before bun,
ultimately becoming a peer. But nothing is
settled yet.
The Queensland Government party should
have no difficulty in returning its man at
the Herbert by-election, made necessary by
Lennon’s appointment as Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor. During last year 329 new names were
put on the Herbert roll, and in the last three
months another 629 have been added, pre-
sumably all reliable men, women and ghosts.
There were 3661 electors for Herbert when
the Denham Government made up its last
roll in 1915. Now there are 6083. If the
population of the State had grown at the
same pace it would have expanded from
678,675 in 1915 to about 1,131,125 last
December, but nothing remarkable that
Knibbs can find out has happened to the
population.
From the Federal Gallery:—
We notice in Hughes a tacit recognition of Ryan
as virtual leader of the Labor party. Tudor can
explode with indignation, but he would need to
accuse the Prime Minister of murdering his grand-
mother and frying the body to bring the midget
Osar to his feet. Frank has no longer the power
to excite hostility: it is Tomjo, ever present with an
increasing suggestion of awful perspicacity and in-
calculable wisdom, who always gets the honor of
PERHAPS ITS THE STEW.
“An outstanding feature of the recent N. S. Wales election was the smallness of the vote.
MRS. NAT-LAR : “ H'm! Hardly touched his star! Can't understand it—the hoy must
have gone off his tucker."
a Prime Ministerial reply. As Jo is beginning to
spout on almost every topic, Hughes will be com-
pelled to neglect the rest of the universe if he
wants to continue his present habit of never letting
the Northerner have the last word. Naturally he is
not unmindful of the implied compliment, and no
doubt will soon get tired of banishing himself to
tlie back Opposition bench and will presently herd
with Tudor and the heads in the front row.
Oman. Yic. Minister for Agriculture, lias
been asked by the Farmers’ Union branches
of his district to toe the line and say whether
he will sign the pledge or not. He says he
will not. If he doesn’t he may be neither
member nor Minister; if he does he may be
a member but will cease to be a Minister.
It is a solemn fact that the day before
Massy Greene’s tariff was tabled tin-
plates were absolutely unobtainable in Mel-
bourne, and one of the largest firms of biscuit
and jam-makers had to put off every tin-
smith it employed because of the lack of
material. Tinplates come in free from
Britain till January, 1922; thereafter there
will l>e a duty of 765., 955. and 115 s. per
ton. If an effective tariff had been intro-
duced when it was promised, in October, ’l4,
a lot of productive workers wouldn’t now
be waiting about in idleness.
The generally ill-paid person in a S. Aus.
Government job is feeling the pmc-h of high
prices; and the prospectus of the Public Ser-
vice Co.-op. Stores is the result. The idea
is to raise £lOO,OOO. Some day, perhaps, in
similar circumstances, Australia will be able
to think of something else besides starting
another store and setting up a few more
middlemen.
The “Carthliek vote” which the Orange
Lodges affect to quail before as the sinister
instrument of Papal tyranny, was given a
genuine trial in the recent N. S. Wales elec-
tions. The “Democratic Party” was -pure
It.C., with denominational education as the
first plank in its platform. The nine “Demo-
crats” polled between them just over 15,000
first votes (and some of the candidates, such
as Cleary, were extremely strong hustings
men) out of a possible 120,000 or there-
abouts. A fair measure, probably, of the
value of the religious appeal in Australian
politics.
The Allied Commission which has been
raking Germany for signs of treachery and
getting itself disliked in the process is said
to have already found 12,000 field-guns and
6000 aeroplanes which the Hun had con-
cealed in defiance of the peace treaty. But
it is the 24,000 guns and the 12,000 aero-
planes which the Commission has missed
that brother Hun means to run the new-
war with.
The go-slow artisan has at any rate the
excuse that he can see only so much work in
front of him and is making it last out.
Worse offenders were those 50 or 60 newly-
appointed M’s.lLlt. who, with mountains of
work to be cleared off, wasted a couple of
hours the other day in arguing whether they
should meet on the Tuesday before Easter
or on the Wednesday, and whether they
should —er —recuperate for a week or a fort-
night.
The Coalition Ministry under Peake in
S. Aus. has at last fallen apart, after show-
ing signs for months past that the strain on it
was too great. Taking in two “National-
ist” men. Anstey and Harvey, during the
war, it found the differences of opinion too
great after peace was restored. Last week
Peake asked them to resign—with great pro-
testation of friendliness —and they did. D.
J. Gordon (one of those who stood down to
make the coalition possible) was invited to
come back, but found himself too busy.
Moseley also declined, though his influence
with the farming interest would have been
valuable. The two new members are Hague,
chairman of the Liberal party, and Paseoe.
who has sat in the Leg. Council for 20
years and has twice before held office.
Another champion puts on the gloves:—
The Middle-class party has been formed in Mel-
bourne to protect the interests of non-manual workers,
both professional and clerical, and of people with
fixed salaries and small fixed incomes. This the
largest section of the people is not represented by
either National or Labor parties, representing Capital
and Labor. A conference of 30 middle-class associa-
tions will be held in Melbourne shortly after Easter.
There is a provisional committee of 25, with George
D. Meudell as chairman pro tern., and J. B. Bell
honorary secretary. The policy is being framed to
defend the consumer by opposing profiteering and
further inflation of the currency, which, with the
waste of war and stoppage of production, are the
chief factors in the high cost of living. The tem-
porary office is 9 Scott’s Court, Melbourne.
N. S. Wales election results have hardened
Victorian State members in the belief that
the single-seat method is best, after all. But
there are some glaring anomalies, certain
electorates having close on 40,000 voters and
others slightly over 6000; and that ought to
be rectified even though the pampered city
will get the benefit of it.
Justice Ewing proposed to take his sec-
retary, who is a Commonwealth public ser-
vant, across to Tasmania to help him pre-
pare his report on the Northern Territory.
But as his report is going to be an indict-
ment of various Governments and their
administration, he decided not to ask any
Government oflicer to have even a secretarial
hand in it.
Some Queensland economists will make
an effort next session to reduce the Assem-
bly’s numerical strength from 72 to 50. The
idea is to use the Federal divisions, making
10 electorates, each carrying five represen-
tatives. Even with the reduced number
there will be a member for every 14,000 of
the population. Most Federal members
have actually polled more votes than that.
Mackay, of Lilley, polled over 22,0u<>
and there were bigger totals than that out-
side Queensland.
Amongst the vagaries of the polling under
the new N. 8. Wales system was the way in
which the Labor preferences beat Lieut.-
Colonel Nicholson, previously a member, for
the third Maitland seat. Bennett having
been elected,- the process of exclusion and
allocation of further preferences had left the
situation: O’Hearne (Lab.), 7208; Nichol-
son (Nat.), 4152; and Cameron (Nat.),
3106. The quota being 4824. the Labor
man had a surplus of 2384, and, 1917 of
these going to Cameron, he landed an easy
winner—a Nationalist elected by Labor pre-
ferences. What would have happned if all
the second preferences had been counted is
not so certain. That is one weak point of
the system: when an arbitrarily-reached
“quota” has been gained, the counting of
second preferences stops, and other prefer-
ences are disregarded altogether.
When Railway Land Acquisition Trusts
asked Premier Lawson (Vic.) the other day
to repeal the Act under which they exist
and take over their liabilities, he, deplored
a tendency of local governing bodies to tear
up scraps of paper. Speaker Mackey, who, like
Lawson, is a lawyer, took the point that the
Trusts were forced to take the terms offered
or go without lines, and that to hold them
to such bargains was just about as reason-
able as for a highwayman to plead a con-
tract. And he might have added that it
was just about as reasonable that, say, a
country butcher or baker should expect to
be paid—or a doctor or an undertaker.
Yet. somehow, these people do expect to be
paid ; and the law sees that they are.
The making of explosives is one of the
industries which the Government hopes to
coax into vigorous existence with its deferred-
duty system. S. Africa supplies a lot of
the ’fracteur used in Australian mines and
lately the representatives of big manufac-
turers asked what protection they would get
if they started in Australia. After July L
1920, powder, cartridges and fuses will have
their rates of duty pushed up from nothing
British, 5 p.c. (intermediate) and 10 p.c.
(full) to 15, 20 and 25; and the same change
is scheduled for explosives, n.e.i., as from
Jan. 1. 1922. If all these things are made
here it will keep at home half a million a
year that now goes elsewhere. Besides, it's
handy stuff to make on the premises.
“Gallery Hand” : If the Bananaland group
that is exasperated with the doings of the
Labor Governments carries out, its threat to
send a delegation to the Cold Country to
complain to Ma, it may return sorry for
itself. There are some Vic. politicians still
living who have a vivid recollection of the
Berry “embassy” that voyaged to London
(going in December, 1878, and returning
in June, 1879) to inform Michael Hieks-
Beach (Colonial Secretary) what a horrid
boy the Uppah House was. Beach told the
complainants, in so many words, that if they
valued self-government and appreciated its
responsibilities they had better go home and
settle their own squabbles. Milner is quite
capable of administering a similar rebuke,
and the zealots ought not to risk getting it.
Besides, there may be some wicked wags
(as there were in Melbourne in ’7B) who
may induce an ebony-hued, present-day Hen-
derson Africanus to take a trip as a fourth
(or additional) “ambassador” to put the
other side. It is better to wait till next
election and -bear the ills that irk than
fly across the sea to court a spanking.
THE GREAT IMPORTING HOWL.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
“One business man said the new duties were a
crime.”-—Sydney Evening News.
Now in the holy shrines of Fake and Fluff
Is cursing loud and wailing of despair;
Above his shoddy and imported stuff
The priest of Take-Von-Down removes his hair.
Not autumn sales with everything marked down
To yield him less than ninety-eight per cent.
Can save the last thin tufts upon his crown;
He sits in cinders with his garments rent.
Crime! Rapine! Murder! Theft! He lifts his howl
Above the bargain-counter and the pins.
What heart could contemplate a deed so foul ?
What document be found so crammed with sins?
Column and column in the daily press!
Itis hatred of this monster swells and grows.
With all his windows still to trick anti dress
Truth on a sudden grips him by the nosel
His profits ever were his country’s loss,
Each rag he sold was treason’s sign and seal;
And now a rising tariff comes to cross
His cherished plans and spoil the future deal.
Sell good Australian goods! Out on that word 1
Oh, for a counter full of German wares 1
To manufacture things is quite absurd;
Why, we can hardly do our own repairs!
Head, dead—long dead! The futile wail fades out.
In war’s red stress Australia found her power.
Shall these who put old Death and Fear to rout
And broke the foe beneath his iron shower
Fail at the anvil and the flying loom?
No! Work is here that freemen dare not shun.
The chance is ours. Give but the swift wheels room
And the great fight of industry is won.
fghf
GEORGE STREET.


Bowls is an ancient game—sometime* called “Ye
ancient game.”
. It 4wts practised in Egypt by
ft Thotmes 11. about the Twelfth
w J Dynasty, 5000 years ago,
Ptah Hotep introduced that graceful
practice of chasing the bowf up the grew
Comparative Duffer
who h«» fluked a
/ “toucher” (, ev
? dtetch in left-hand!
comer at bottom of
f P*»o)i “And yet
Pm not picked In the i
pennant!" 1
T green at Ararat and organised ,«
"pair” competition during the voyage
to be played by the passengers on
arrival ; but the weather proved ut»*
sjjik
■ AN UPHILL GAME.
Happy is that visiting
team whose skipper own*
» motor-car, or a biplane ;
'“—especially on a hot;
day!
> : gv K . , >
BOWLER (trying to he entertaining);
■ :. ? ■
to howls?'’ ' ' v '*
VSSITOR: "Because, rude mm— we!!,
.’5? be asking me my age »e*! ! ”
—WELL-ASSORTED LEADERS.
S ™ E TALL ONE’S SKIPPER: “Now
Pi l &**> ''don’t be short?*
HIS OPPONENT'S DITTO: ’ You must be
Methuselah was an enthusiastic
Louder. He took it op early in Ida.
yT\H* was hardy 175
years when he
PWf down his first howl*
A fllfif|l YARN |
“1 once lost a game because every man of *
' ;X{/mf team was deaf and couldn’t hear my
dueetions ' bought . a«gaphnm ia|i
. slope ear-trumpets, and we’ve never lost
a game since!” -• __ *
HER FIRST VISIT TO A
bowung-gkeen.
LADY ON THE BANK: “I never knew that
howls was a devout game. Why, there’*
my husband saying his prayers; a thing
I never saw him do before!”
-ommAA' *
A CHAUCER.
Imr sketch m upper right-haad
cornel' of this pkge*
A POST MORTEM.
g&IPPER; “I don’t know what got Into us to -day: we all played a
rotten game?’
THIRD MAN; ‘ln my opinion it’s what didn’t get into us drat
made us lose die match; and that’s what comes of playin’
agin a dry dtah on a dry green!”
BOWLING SEASON.—PENNANT MATCHES NOW ON!


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty..Ltd.
Registered
bhas;
Brand..
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Speller,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. E. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALE. AUSTIN FRIARS. EC. 3
A -.T. SMITH. London Secretary. -
SYDNEY OFFICE: 35 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 63 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE “.A.
coke works; bellambi. n;s.w.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Viaitora to Sydney and reaident a of Seu) South Walea
when seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
Address: 279 George Street, Sydney, s.b.
The WILD CAT CALUMN
The Insurance Office of Australia,
Ltd. (Sydney), which was founded in 1910,
and began with a deficit of £5250 represent-
ing preliminary exes.:—
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
——.— £5,250
1911.. £'4,115 Nil £4,115 1,135
1 )ec., Loss.
1912.. 436 Nil —. 1,571
' Adjustment Re-Insurance Co., £367 1,938-
1913'.. 963 Nil 2,901
1914.. 5,212 Nil 8,113
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £3735. . 11,848
Profit.
1915.. 6,256 Nil 6,256: 5,592
Re insurance Co. purchase, £231 .. .5,823
Reserves.
1916.. 20,953 10 p.c.= £9,616 11,337 5,514
1917.. 16,892 10 „ „ 9,689 7,253 12,767
Further Re-Insurance Co. exes., £33 12,734
1918.. 28,247 10 p.c.= 9,685 18,562 31,296
Premiums on new shares, £12,599 43,895
Maori land establishment exes., £l5OO 42,395
1919.. 27,585 10 p.c.= 10,950 16,635 59,030
This very energetic young c<>., though only
10 years old. has already given its share-
holders no less than 40 p.c. in dividends. It
is an unusual record, made possible by unusual
times.' The 1.0. A. was one of the offices
which risked their socks on the British Navy
and plunged into marine business during the
war, while the more cautious big offices
narrowed their war risks. Consequently
there was a big increase in premium in-
come :
Not Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1911. . £25,951 £6,748 £17,037 26.0 p.c. 67.5 n.c.
1912.. 47,241 22.443 27,845 47.5 „ 58.9 „
1913.. 54,618 22,911 35,275 41.9 ~ 64.6 ~
1914.. 67,510 39,202 35,222 58.2 „ 52.1 „
1915.. 93,516 52,002 37,019 55.6 „ 39.5
1916.. 115,885 59,731 38,742 51.5 „ 33.5 ~
1917.. 144,917 79,419 47,161 54.8 ~ 32.5 „
1918.. 229,554 110,887 63,046 48.3 ~ 27.5 ~
1919.. 217,910 132,366 70,497 60.7 ~ 32.3 ~
Fortunately for the 1.0. A. it backed a winner
when it laid long odds against Wilhelm's
tinfish. Certainly the loss ratio was much
heavier during the war than it had been
previously, hut of course premiums were
vastly greater, and that made a reduction of
the expense rate easy. With the war out
of the way, a slump in premium income was
only to be expected ; but the co. did very well
indeed by collecting £407,060 of gross
premiums for the 12 months ended Dec. 31
last —£00,000 less than for the last year of
the war. Net premiums, however, fell only
£11,644. because whereas in 1918 practically
one-half of the total premium income was
paid out for re-insurance, during the past
12 months only 46.4 p.c. was laid off. Last
year was an abnormal one in several re-
spects ; during the first half a very large
volume of delayed importations flowed into,
the Commonwealtn, and the appreciated value
of these goods and of all local property and
commodities helped to swell premium income
—and, incidentally, increase the risks. But
even allowing for the growth of the figures
due to abnormal conditions, the 1.0. A. is
doing a remarkably large business for so
young an office.
The most satisfactory feature of the year’s
operations was the expense rate. For the
previous year the management had declared
that it had got its expense rate to the
“lowest shown by an Australian c 0.,” but
that claim could not be taken very seriously
owing to the cheaply-written war-risk busi-
ness. The 32.3 p.c. for 1919, however, is
surprisingly good, particularly since it in-
cludes some of the expense of opening up
in Maoriland and other parts of the world —
the 1.0. A. has had a “foreign superintendent”
scouting round the Dutch East Indies, the
Straits Settlements and India, establishing
agencies where there is any promise of busi-
ness. And since this organisation outlay
had not helped income to any extent during
the period covered by the accounts, the direc-
tors do not consider that the expense rate
will he increased in future. If it doesn’t,
the 1.0. A. will have Something to be proud
of. for very few of its big competitors handle
their business so cheaply. Incidentally, part
of the organisation expenses last year was
charged, not against revenue, but to capital
account, wherefore among the assets there is
now this item : “New Zealand establishment
expenses (less portion written off), £1500.”
But even if that £l5OO were added to the
year’s working costs it would lift the expense
rate only about f p.c.
The actual surplus on the year’s opera-
tions was not so good as represented by the
table above. Owing to a heavier loss rate
and slightly increased expense rate, the
underwriting profit for the 12 months was
only £10,047. This amount .has, however,
been improved by increased, interest earnings
(due to additional share capital got in), and
by crediting the year's P. and L. account
with an unspecified amount which had been
previously set aside for taxation and found
to be no longer required. The past year’s
profits have thus benefited to an unknown
extent at the expense of earlier surpluses.
Particularly in view of the directors’ haste
to pass out liberal dividends (nearly £40,000
has been distributed during the past four
years) it is high time the management intro-
duced a reserve for unexpired risks into the
accounts. The general practice is to hold
in this reserve an amount equal to at least
40 p.c. of the year’s premiums. On this
plan, the 1.0. A. at Dec. 81 last should have
laid about £87,000 earmarked for the protec-
tion of policy-holders. Actually its total
reserves amounted to only £">9,000.
Twelve months ago The Bulletin showed
that the eo. had been chasing risky business-
apparently regardless of its resources. At
the close of 1917 there were funds equal to
75 p.c. of that year’s premiums ; for 1918. only
50 p.c, Seeing that it is generally con-
sidered that funds 1 1 times the size of
premium income is something like reasonable
protection for policy-holders, the 1.0. A. was
making the pace hot. In fact, effective in-
surance legislation would have prevented the
co. chasing new business unless the proprietors
were prepared to produce further security.
The directors evidently did not concede that
policy-holders deserved better protection; for
it was only because it was ‘‘necessary under
Government regulations to make a number
of deposits in Australasia and other parts of
the world before commencing underwriting”
that new capital was got in. Paid capital
at the 1918 balance was £96,497, and re-
serves £31,296. The new issue of 10s. shares
paid to ss. added £25,785 to capital account,
while the 50 p.c. premium on the new shares
and the year’s undivided surplus have added
£27,734 to reserves. Total funds now
amount to £181.312 instead of £127,793
twelve months ago. The proportion of funds
to net premiums has improved to S 3 p.c.,
but there is still plenty of room for improve-
ment. Besides shareholders' funds and re-
serves, there is now £122.352 of uncalled
capital to protect policy-holders if the worst
happened. But uncalled capital is poor
backing.
At Dec. 31 the 1.0. A. had just over a
quarter of a million of tangible assets, but
on the other side there were liabilities of
£38,883 (£lO,OOO of which represented mort-
gages on premises), and possibly the whole
of the £9OOO set aside for taxation may be
called for. Assets consist of deposits and
public securities, £115,410; freeholds.
£65,127; mortgages, £4380; shares in other
cos., £10.326; agency balances and sundry
debtors, £47.175; and odds and ends of fur-
niture, etc., £7799.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of.
station goods :
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000 ..£58,098
£ £ £ £ £
Jan.,’l3. . 9,124 10 p.c.- 5000 4124 62,222
July,’l3.. 7,895 10 ~,, 5000 2895 65,117
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 „ ~5000 3532 68,649
July,’l4.. 7,670 10 „ ~5000 2670 71,319
Jan..’ls.. 8,662 10 ~., 5000 3000 662 71,981
July, '15.. 8,203 10 „ ~5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 ~,,5000 4121 78.305
July, ’16.. 8.141 10 ~.,5000 3141 81,446
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195. . .. 95,641
Jan.,’l7.. 8,526 10 p.c.= 5000 3526 99,167
Reserves transferred to.rapital, £25,000. . 74,167
July, 17.. 8.125 10 p.c.= 6250 1875 76,042
Jan.,’lS.. 10,460 10 ~ ~6250 4210 80,252
July,’lS.. 13,677 10 „ ~6250 7427 87,679
Jan., ’19.. 14.663 10 ~ ~ 6250 V 8413 96,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
Premium on new shares, £5OOO,
dropped into internal reserves.
July,’l9.. 13,067 10p.c.= 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes, £BOOO . . . . 69,597
Jan.,’2o.. 25,878 11 p.c.= 7663 18,315 87,912
Reserved for taxes, £5OOO .. .. 82,912
This old back-country carrying co. has had
a wonderfully profitable run lately ; the dis-
tricts in which it is principally interested
have experienced so severe a drought that
its organisation has been taxed to almost
its limit in supplying sustenance for starv-
ing stock. The profits shown above are
after deducting £3500 bonus to employees,
so the actual net earnings were £29.378, a
very big leap above recent averages. Results
may have been even more handsome, for
shareholders are informed that they “may
rest assured that full provision has been
made for any contingency likely to arise.”
Not that they would be likely to entertain
any doubts on the point, for managing-
director F. W. Browne has repeatedly
talked of a “bit up the sleeve,” as lie un-
conventionally put it in one of his recent
reports. Two lines in the table above show
bow, during the past eight years, the sleeve
had so bulged that the directors thought it
good enough to shake out £35,195. A man-
agement doesn’t often care to say much
about its hidden resources, but. in their latest
report Wright-Heaton directors are de-
lightfully frank : “In addition to the reserves
shown in the balance-sheet there are inter-
nal reserves or undisclosed profits exceeding
£40,000.” In other words, past profits have
been considerably better than the accounts
have shown;
A survey of the latest balance-sheer
figures in conjunction with thq announce-
ment of £40,000-odd of internal reserves
gives an idea of the very comfortable posi-
tion the co. is in nowadays-
-1910. 1915. 1920.
Liabilities ~ .. . . £27,334 £53,062 £89,190
Premises and plant .. 15,245 18,466 23,067
McCulloch Co. . . . . 25,000 25,000 25,000
Book debts 56,119 107,309 193,139
Stock 29,566 42,416 66,291-
Cash ami Govt, securities .. 15,011 37,352 21,745
Few trading cos. have shown such rapid
growth during the past five years with so
little additional capital outlay. The only
new capital got in during that period was
from the 5000 new shares put out last year,
bringing in £12.500 together with £5OOO of
premiums, though the whole of the. latter
amount was dropped into internal reserves
and did not show up in the accounts at
all. Apart from this new capital got in and
the £14,105 of internal reserves disclosed
three years ago. net assets of £25,850 have
been accumulated since 1015 —and that has
been after paying a special cash bonus of
20 p.c. (£25.000-1 besides regular handsome
dividends. The long chain of 10 p.c. distri-
butions has now been broken, for the co.
has done so very well lately that the man-
agement is making the current and next
quarterly div. at the rate of 12 p.c. The
last distribution having been at the old
10 p.c. rate, the past half’s divs. average
the 11 p.c. shown in the table. In view of
the fact that £45.000 of the present paid
capital of £137,500 represents reserves capi-
talised during the past 10 years, the return
to shareholders is very sweet. Wright
Heaton’s has had a remarkable career, for
at one stage it was in such difficulties that
the bank had come to despair of ever re-
covering much of the advances it had made
It was at that stage that F. W. Browne
was brought over from Vic. to see whether
he could get the concern off the rocks. Some
years ago his old firm, the McCulloch Carry-
ing Co., was hitched on to Wright Heaton’s,
and from all appearances it is earning a
good deal more than its board and lodging
now.
R. 11. Cordon and Co.. Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
„ ■ To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1910. . £ 17,633 10p.c. = £5,257 £12.376 £6 40 9
Prof.
6 p.c. Ord.
1911.. 23,497 £798 10p.c.= 5,510 17,194 23,596
1912.. 24,429 Div. & Bonus 7,615 16,814 40 410
Reserves transferred to capital or ’
distributed, £12,393 .. 28 017
1913.. 28,477 1200 lljp.c.= 8,847 18.430 40^447
1914.. 23,469 1200 10 „ „ 7,998 14,271 60 718
Transferred to capital £40,000 .. 20*718
1915.. 20,368 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,168 27 886
1916.. 20,394 1200 10 „ ~12,000 7,194 SO^SO
191.. 30,465 1200 11J „ „ 13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital. £20,000 .. 30 845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38 831
1919.. 33,096 1200 15 ~ ~ 21,000 10,896 49 727
Voted to staff fund, £2OOO .. 47V27
Transferred to capital, £40,000 . . 7’727
This co.’s shareholders struck it very rich
S fooi e A a^ *8° paid capital was made up
of 20,000 fully-paid 0 p.c. £1 prefs.. 00,000
fully-paid £1 ordinaries and 20,000 £1 ordi-
naries paid to 25.: total. £82,000. Paid
capital is now £200,000, and at least £112,303
of the increase has been provided by bonus
distributions from reserves. The latest 15
p.c. dividend gave shareholders a return
equal to no less than 20) p.c. on their capi-
tal as it stood only five years ago. and there
remained enough surplus profit to pay half
as much again. The management says its
net profit was only £26,132; but that does
not include additions to reserves. Substan-
tial amounts have been set aside in this
way in the past:—
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Dec., Account). Reserves.
1910 £12.924 £4,709
1911 14,996 8,501
1912 15,830 8,599
1913 .. .. .. 15,850 12,627
1914 15,141 8,328
1915 •• .. .. 15,111 5,257
1916 . . . . . . 15,133 5,261
1917 15,895 14,571
1918 . . . . .. ' 22,644 7 549
1919 . . . . . . 26,132 6,964
Even the £33,000-odd got by adding these
two amounts did not represent the net earn-
ings the co. could have shown, for at Christ-
mas time a substantial bonus to employees,
based on length of service, . was distributed, so
that they, too, could celebrate the very rapid
growth of the concern. Gordon’s has made a
specialty of the cash-order trade, earning
a lucrative interest on small advances to
customers to purchase goods at other stores.
The interest on these loans is supplemented
by discounts from retailers handling the
cash-orders. In addition the co. liouse-
furnishes on its own account, and much of
that business is also done on the t.-p. plan.
Besides, there are big outside investments
bringing in a tidy bit; the directors state
that one-third of the past year’s dividend
distributions came from this source. The
published balance-sheets, however, give no
detailed information about assets; there is
one line showing the extent of the book
debts (probably well written down), but all
other belongings are thrown into one heap
labelled "‘Freehold and leasehold property.
War Loan, debentures, mortgages, shares in
other cos., cash on hand and on deposit at
short call, stock on hand as per certificate,
shop and office fittings, plant, etc.” Here
is a comparison of the figures over a num-
ber of years:—
Properties, Properties,
Stock, Fit- Sundry Stock, Fit- Sundry
Dec., ting's, etc. Debtors. Dec., tings, etc. Debtors.
1910. . £53,7,82 £08,102 1916. . £130.207 £79,215
1913.. 75,999 101,222 1917.. 138,609 82,011
1911.. 88,805 99,618 1918.. 118,512 87,191
1915.. 110,570 89,085 1919., ,157,658 99,503
At one time it looked as though the manage-
ment regarded its reserve fund as a sort of
contingency account available for filling
holes if trouble should happen along. But
if it did, it has changed its mind, for after
the latest accounts closed £40,000 of rc-
'serves were capitalised, leaving only £7727
in all funds after paying dividends. The
effect of this, of course, will be to make
handsome returns to shareholders possible
on a milder-looking dividend rate. Last
year’s distribution, for instance, though
equal to 261 p.c. on capital as it stood in
1914, would show as merely an 11 2-3 p.c.
dividend on the enlarged capital. The
shuffle thus tends to make the co. less liable
to attack. But the investor has to con-
sider whether this and other t.-p. and cash-
order businesses will be permitted to con-
tinue indefinitely charging customers in-
terest at a rate up to 30 p.c. p.a., and at
the same time getting a cut from the retailer.
The Interstate Commission over a year ago
inquired into the various systems, and some
of the evidence produced clearly showed
that the methods of some t.-p. traders
were calling for control. No doubt the.
R. 11. Cordon business is as clean as any,
but the investor must not overlook the
probability of this co.’s operations being
regulated along with others. There is no
hint of prospective legislation at present,
but considering that practically the whole
of the business is done with Labor sup-
porters, a Labor Ministry is almost certain,
sooner or later, to intervene.
The Australian Cash Orders, Ltd., on the
dissecting table: —
Win.' Buckingham has for 35 years or so rdn a
drapery in Oxford-street, Sydney, and traded in
cash orders as a side-line, lie now goes out of
business, and as a reward to the 17 members of his
old travelling staff, whose average length of ser-
vice is 15 years, he has passed the whole of the
t.-p. interests over to them as a gift. What they
receive is the organisation; which they established
with the assistance of Buckingham funds. These
funds now being withdrawn (there is about £30,000
of loans outstanding to be collected on a 15 p.c.
commission basis), the problem confronting the
17 is file old one of labor being dependent upon
capital. Having insufficient funds of their own.
they are inviting the public to put up the neces-
sary.
The prospectus sets down nominal capital as
£50,000 in £1 shares——lB,7oo are to be issued
as fully-paid to the 17 vendors, 21,000 offered for
subscription and 10,300 to be held in reserve. Thus
of a total paid capital of £39,700 no less than
£18,(00 is to be paid for nothing more tangible
than an organisation which a number of men have
built up as a side-line of a big drapery business,
the retail concern which has made this organisa-
tion possible now fades out and the tail has to
hitch itself on to a new dog. Where is Australian
(lash Orders, Ltd., going to find acceptors for its
paper? The prospectus says that “arrangement;
are being made with various retail firms for the
sale of goods on the co.’s orders on the usual terms. - ’
It is an impertinence to ask the public to put up
£21,000 before these arrangements are finalised.
IV hat would happen if the vendors did not succeed
in securing a. string of retailers to cash the co.'s
orders, or could only rope in fourth-rate shops which
would not be acceptable to the co.’s prospective
customers? The investor will discover iii a few'
w'eeks that his £21,000 has suddenly become the
property of 39,(00 shares, and if the co. found that
it could not get the backing of retailers and liqui-
dation became necessary, for every £1 put up
the shareholder would get back only 10s. 7d„ less
any expenses that may be incurred.
This venture may be best termed unique in the
sphere of company flotation,” says the prospectus.
Probably never before and never again will a
business involving a turnover of over £lOO,OOO per
annum be given away as in this case.” It certainly
looks a handsome present from Buckingham to lib
employees ; but the point for the public to grasp is
that the employees are not disposing of it on the
same terms. The promoters say “there is little
doubt that the business will show; a. larger turnover
foi the first year than £100,000.” Assuming that
£20,000 of the £21,000 put up will be available
for loans to customers, is even a £lOO,OOO turn-
over possible? The latest Buckingham turnover was
about £120,000, but as the prospectus show’s thal
necessitated book debts of about £30,000. The
usual cash-order plan is to lend up to £5 for 20
weeks with repayments of Is. per £ each


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Batterv
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. 'You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
Water is nature’s thirst quencher for both man
and beast, and unless your supply is pure when yon
receive it, much ill-health may result. Dwellers
in the country suffer the greatest disadvantage, as
they depend mainly on tank and river water, which
very often contains impurities and vegetable matter.
One pound of Alujninoferrie will clarify 2000 gal-
lons of water. It will not affect the taste, but will
give you a supply of beautifully clear and pure
water. For further particulars write to William
Adams & Co. Ltd., 170 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
1 ] —Advt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Preseni
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on oin
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description!
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [j
* * * * .
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter received
from G. H. Odling, Parramatta Road, Sydney, dated
26th March, 1919: “Dear Sirs, —In reply to your
inquiry we have pleasure in stating that' the wood
pipe laid down in our smiths’ shop, which convey>
the blast from the fans to the smiths’ forges, has
proved in every way satisfactory. We have not had
to renew any part, and the pipe is as good as when
laid down five (6) years ago. (Sgd.) G. 11. Odling."
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian
Wood Pipe Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burris Bay Road,
Longueville, N.S.W. Contractors to all State
Governments.—Advt.
# •* *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagl!
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * • »
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5036. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
• * * • *
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer:
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.—Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
» » * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Client. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. ’ ’ —A DVT.
* • * •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus. Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby & Co..
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
Election of Directors.
To the Members of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society.
/“\NE of my aims, if elected, is to make the A.M.P.
the representative service of Australia, a service
which, by reflection of its standards, will beneficially
affect the status of all clerks in financial and com-
ercial employment. The . A.M.P., being a mutual
society, is specially able to set this example.
When all clerks receive fairer recognition, all
will be able to insure their lives more substantially,
increasing vastly the field of work of the A.M.P.
itself.
This, in my opinion, should take precedence to
the proposal to raise the directors’ fees from £2600
to £4500.
Write to-day to the nearest A.M.P. Office for
your voting paper, or you can vote at the office
TO-DAY. Ballot closes at 5 p.m. on April 19, 1920.
ALEX, JOBSOX, A.I.A.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WOS.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking; out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the Very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
61 YEARS' REPUTATION.
PIONE.ER L-eat Ker Belting'.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
TANNERS t LEATHER BELT MAKERS. 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
__________ ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne -Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers- Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Otiier Goods.
. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
week. Assume that the whole of the £20,000 could
be put to work on the day the eo. opened its books,
on that basis £lOOO per week, and gradually a bit
more, would be repaid and be available for further
investment if every penny came back promptly on
its due date. Under the most favorable conditions
it is doubtful whether even an £BO,OOO turnover
. would be possible in the first year. No attempt is
made in the prospectus to anticipate profits under
normal conditions. Theie is a tip for the first year,
based on a full £lOO,OOO turnover, and with income
including a non-recurring item of £4OOO, commis-
sion on the collection of the old Buckingham book
debts.
Altogether it is a most unsatisfactory document.
As demonstrated by the R. H. Gordon business, the
cash-order trade is highly profitable provided cus-
tomers are carefully selected and the right sort of
retailers can be coaxed to oblige with a cut of the
business they acquire through the system. But there
are doubts about the future of the cash-order, and
certainly the present is not the best of times for a
new co. to get into the business. And more certainly
it is not an opportune moment to accept 10s. 7d. of
security (which will be mostly book debts shortly)
for each £1 of cash put up.
* * * V
“The co. has passed through the worst 12
months yet experienced in its history,” old
Wallaroo and Moonta’s chairman told share-
holders at the half-yearly meeting in Adel-
aide the other day. The report just out
covers the six months to December 31 last,
but owing to the shut-down last year the co.
was producing only during the final 2£
months. Consequently only 9286 tons 8.95 p.c.
concentrates were produced at Wallaroo and
only 733 tons of 12.86 p.c. grade at Moonta,
giving, with precipitates handled,, 1049 tons
fine copper. No accounts accompany the.
report, so the financial aspect of operations
is not visible. A statement of assets and
liabilities shows the liquid position to have
slipped £25,000 during the half-year. But
that is governed very largely by the value
put upon copper in hand ; and as the stocks
have greatly increased and the value assumed
is probably only £65 per ton, the half-year
has been much better than that shrinkage
would indicate. Wherefore, siuce the term
closed, a Is. div. has been passed out to
sfiareholdcrs. Stocks were given a book
value of £146,390, compared with the £61,510
12 months previously, when the British
munitions contract expired. One result of
this is that the old co. is nowadays leaning
on the bank for almost £75.000. The excess
of liquid assets over liabilities is still for-
midable: £305,220, or only £15,000 short of
paid capital.
* * # *
One of the best of the outside Westralian
mines has shut down. This is the Mararoa,
Norseman, Wh'lijh, working generally on a
30s. to 355. grade, has won 355,0000 z. from
625,000. tons. To get a new mine the direc-
tors have tried half a dozen shows, some at
Norseman, the Bronco Horseshoe at Yil-
garn, and Light of Asia at Cue. The last
has been the biggest disappointment of the
lot, for, judging By the final crushing by the
vendors of stone from the bottom levels, it
looked as if a property with decent prospects
had been got. For the past, six months,
however, it, cost £9OOO to win gold worth
£7500. The Mararoa in its last lap saved
gold worth £11,098 with costs kept down to
£8919. The two yields enabled the co. to
get £4815 in premiums, so the half-year
closed with a snug cash balance. The trouble
with the Light of Asia is that neither north
nor south at No. 4 level has the lode when
driven on come up to the tally of the upper
levels, where a good grade shoot existed for
200 ft. in length, Mararoa is not going to
give up, though, until more, prospecting has
been done north and south at Nos ; 3 and 4.
* * ; ;*• .. ' *
Hampton Plains having worn out its wel-
come in Adelaide and Ivalgoorlie, promoters
are now busy on Mt. Monger. Several blocks
with small holes in the ground have already
been floated for thousands without even a
report to back them, and there are several
others waiting to be placed on the market.
Unlike Hampton Plains, the field certainly
shows some surface gold ; but it has never
yet produced a payable mine.
* * * *
Three daring speculators, one of them
Randolph Bedford, have secured an option,
at a big figure, on the pick of the surface
shows at Mt. Monger (W.A.).
Since the Hampton boom it has been easy
to float new mining cos. in the West. Dozens
of new ventures are making their appearance
each week. An option having been acquired,
the usual proceeding is to allow a few weeks
to elapse to discover the deposit. Before
anything definite has been ascertained, an
option eo. has been floated and the lease-
holder’s deposit and the promoters’ cut are
paid out of public subscriptions. The
owner generally has to wait six months for
the balance of purchase money, but
probably in nine cases out of ten the cos.
will have given up before then.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) has not done well
lately, owing chiefly to strike troubles, so
the usual March div. was passed. More
settled conditions and gold premiums
should assure a bite for shareholders later
on. In a circular the directors talk of the
improved prices received for gold bringing
bodies of lower-grade ore within pay limits,
thus adding life to the mine. But, of
course, the premiums cannot be regarded as
an assured source of income, though when
they disappear costs should also shrink.
A Melbourne syndicate, headed by Dorrie
Doolette, Fred Tricks, Bert Clark and others,
seems to have drawn a prize at
Ivanowna (W.A.). In Feb. it took an op-
tion over Martin’s Red Hill leases, out of
which .something like £25,000 worth of gold
has been extracted during the past 12 months,
and about double that amount previously.
Now the manager reports that 6Jft. of ore,
showing gold, has been struck in sinking. In
the old workings the reef had a length of
600 ft. A cheering aspect of the new
find is that, owing to the flat angle of the
reef, 320 ft. of backs will be available.
That disgruntled body, the Westralian
Chamber of Mines, had its annual roll-up
the other day, when a long list of grievances
was aired. The Federal customs tariff was
a new target, the mine-owners giving a dismal
picture of what Would inevitably happen to
the mining industry if they had to pay
heavier duties on iron, steel, structural
material, machinery and other requisites.
After deploring labor and gold-stealing
troubles, the meeting brightened a little on
the announcement by president .Dick Hamil-
ton that the gold sold last year by Westralian
producers realised premiums amounting to
£436.367, approximately 70 p.c. of the total
distributed in the Commonwealth.
Cap’n Teddy Miles, of Tongkah Harbor
fame, recently cast doubts on the value of
Badak's ground, seeing that Wilson’s samples
assayed about 36 p.c. tin. The Badak people
replied that by ordinai'y methods the stuff
can be dressed up to something over 70 p.c.,
with a loss of as little as 1 p.c. of the total
tin value. Miles, however, is not satisfied.
He writes The Bulletin :
Finding myself in direct conflict with Badak
directors on the value of the property, to ascertain
the truth I have made the following proposal:—
Cable one of the well-known Arms in the F.M.S.,
who make a specialty of boring and testing tin
properties, and instruct them: —
(1) To send two gangs of boring coolies and tools
with a European supervisor to close-bore the 100
acres (say one bore to the acre).
(2) Instruct them to send under seal the samples
obtained from each series of 10 bores to either the
Straits Trading Co. or Eastern Smelting Co., Penang,
for assay,
(3) Instruct the smelting co. to divide each
sample, sending one-half to the directors for check
assay, assay the other half and cable the Badak
directors the result.
(4) Cable the directors the smelters’ price per
ton for such concentrates delivered in Penang, duty
paid by the smelters, based on London tin price
£3OO.
The co. would thus know within a month the exact
commercial value of every acre of the property at
a cost not exceeding £5OO. As I am responsible for
the reliability of the information supplied by me,
to prove my bona fides I am prepared to deposit with
the directors the total cost of the above examination
(£5OO, or more if necessary), conditionally that it
is returned if the property is proved to be of no
commercial value.
This looks a sporting challenge, but it is
not sufficiently comprehensive. Badak direc-
tors freely admit that they do not hope to
find a market for 36 p.c. concentrates, but
claim that they can dress the stuff with ease
to make it saleable. So, as far as proving the
value of Badak is concerned, for Miles’s chal-
lenge to be worth anything it should provide,
not for ascertaining what the smelters will
offer for concentrates such as a boring party
would bring in, but for ascertaining whether
the stuff can be dressed up to a marketable
commodity before being offered to the
smelters.
W. E. Wainwright, who has been Broken
Hill manager of the South for nearly 20
years, has, like Horwood of the B. H. Prop.,
been transferred to the Melbourne H.Q. of
the co. Andrew Fairweather, underground
manager since 1904, will now run the show
on the spot.
* * 4t *
The recently cabled announcement of the
successful flotation in London of the first
of the Marshall’s Broken Hill amalgama-
tions concerns only one of the Marshall ven-
tures. The flotation covers those mineral
leases between the Globe mine and Stephens
Creek, part of the alleged northern exten-
sion of the main line of lode. Other amal-
gamations are also under way. These flota-
tions are the sequel to the Marshall-Jones
synclinal theory regarding the survival of
the fnain Barrier line of lode north and
south of the mines now operating. Jones
and Marshall evolved this theory, in opposi-
tion to the anticlinal theories of many geo-
logists and mining men. and it was endorsed
by W. H. Cundy. of Bendigo, in a report
issued last December. Marshall, Jones and
Cundv defined a central line of lode extend-
ing from the Pinnacles to Stephens Creek,
a distance of 17 miles, including the big pro-
ducers. The various Marshall cos. control
between 13 a.nd 14 miles of this so-called
“centre lode line.” A quarter of a million at
least has been spent on perhaps a hundred
claims within this area; indeed, in the early
days of the field the blocks on and about
Round Hill were more favored than the
Broken Hill claims. Pockets and veins were
found nearlv everywhere; but nothing more.
Still there was certainly nothing in the way
of a big scientifically-directed scheme of
prospecting.
* # ♦ t
Having solved the problem of producing
its own electrodes for its carbide works at
Eleetrona (Tas.), the Hydro Electric Co.
proposes to make them for other users of
electric furnaces in the Commonwealth. The
eo. was making' good progress with carbide
when the engineers’ strike cut off coke
supplies. Now it has chartered a little
steamer, and hopes soon to work up to an
output of 100 tons of carbide a month.
Massy Greene gave the business a lift bv
putting the stuff on the list of things onlv
to be imported under special license; but
naturally the co. wants the new tariff to
give it permanent protection. One re-
sult of recent troubles has been that
a further 45.000 of 10 p.c. cum.
pref. shares have had to be put out.
Apparently capital now stands at 336,000
ordinaries and 115,000 cum. prefs.. all of £1
each. The balance-sheet covers the year to
June 30 last and does not include the new
Issue of shares. At that date £36,709 was
owing to sundry creditors and £37,052 to the
bank. Assets include this item: “Electrode
experimental account, £39,659.” The debit
of £205,975 shown by the P. and L. account
records the up-hill fight the co. has had since
it set out to back inventor Gillies.
Mount Farrell (Tas.) has increased its
capital, (lie old 50,000 shares of 7s. each
having been readjusted to give the directors
a further calling power of 2s. per share.
Recent efforts to pick up ore in the drift
from the North Farrell’s workings having
been unsuccessful, attention is now to be
given to the southern end of the deposit.
Manager Lynch believes he can make the
mine self-supporting from these workings,
but it requires another bunch of ore like
that exposed by Astell to put the mine
ahead of expenditure. The old show has
been a big disappointment to its many
backers and seems to be located just outside
the grade-ore zone. All the same, there is
always the hope that development may at
any time open up pay ore.
• * * *
Federation tin, Heemskirk (Tas.), has
acquired the Tasmania Gold Mine’s 40-hd.
mill. The plant is in healthy condition
and should do good work for the Federa-
tion. Its removal from Beaconsfield leaves
that district with only holes in the ground
to remind it that it was once Tasmania’s
most prosperous mining centre.
* # *
A crowd of mining enthusiasts, headed by
R. G. Hales, g.-m. of the Magnet (Tas.)'.
is proposing a crosscut into new ground,
west of the parent, for the continuation of
its lode. The new venture is to be known
as the Compass,.
* * * *
Round Hill (Tas.) continues to open up
well and yield a good output of high-grade
ore. A vigorous policy of development is
Putting _this property into the front rank
of State’s silver-lead producers.
, Mt. Jasper (Tas.) has resumed opera-
tions neain in a small way. The two fea-
tures about this copper show are the scar-
city of pay ore and the rapidity with, which
managers come and go.
Adelaide”: Moorlands (S.A.) brown
coal, described appreciatively (B. 25/3/’2O),
may or may not be worth enthusing about.
So far there are two opinions. One is the
favorable view, as of (for example) a lead-
ing city manufacturer whom I quoted to a
geological expert. “So-and-so thinks a lot
of it.” I said. The geology man replied plea-
santly: “Tell him he’s got the same thing
right under his factory yard.” And indeed
there is coal, of sorts, In various places close
to Adelaide, All that seems to be claimed
for Moorlands, at present, is that eight to
nine tons of it will give the same effect as
four tons of Newcastle, and that the differ-
ence in cost of freight may make it Worth
while for use in S. Aus. The place is close
to Tailem Bend on the rive- Murray. 85
miles out of Adelaide on the main railway
line to Melbourne. There has been a sharp
rise in shares, consequent on a successful
steam-raising trial of the coal in Adelaide.
* * * *
From a perturbed mine-manager:—
When are mine wages going to cease rising?
Secondary industries can and do pass on each in-
crease, but the mining industry, depending entirely
on the world’s prices for its products, cannot. At
present the industry is in a fool’s paradise of high
metal prices on the one hand and a cut-throat labor
policy on the other, with the result that not only
is the operation cost in every case rapidly rising,
but labor generally is losing efficiency owing to the
retention of a poor class of labor, saturated in most
cases with the go-slow policy.
The action of the Repatriation Department in
granting sustenance for the time it does is having
the effect of delaying the return of skilled labor to
the mines. The trouble in mining camps to-day is
not so much due to actual labor shortage as to its
uneven distribution and the preference of returned
soldiers generally for city jobs, a preference fostered
by the Repat. The greed of various boards, especially
of the big mines, which, in order to get full advan-
tage of high in i d prices, make no effort to combat
excessive labor demands or recognise the rights of
small concerns to a fair cut of available labor, adds
to the trouble. The attractions of high wages, cheap
living, better conditions, guaranteed contracts, rail
concessions, etc., offered by the big cos., are making-
the miner, who at heart is a good fellow, rather un-
balanced, and giving the militant section in the
unions just the opportunity it has dreamed of for
years.
The position is further aggravated by State wages
boards, usually entirely composed of representatives
of the secondary industries, which give decisions
covering both secondary and primary industries alik<\
a proceeding which is economically unsound. The
day is coming—and it may be soon—when the cost
of labor in the mining industry will exceed the
value of the product, which means the knock-off
whistle.


HER LITTLE DARLINGS.
“The ARGUS is screaming at the new tariff, especially so far as it affects iron, because it assists the biggest Australian producer,”
THE OLD LADY: “Oh, you bad man, what do you think will become of my two littie darlings!”


ABBOTS
LAGER
without
--- a 7?ival
stytjtfefrom
y?o//4>/fops
OJVLV m
Is
li m
\m
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
f
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the of the
Meats’ Aural Nebulizer
jvhich aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
' affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the -absolute and lasting CURE.
- Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.
We would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.'
The Guarantee Proves Its Bonafldes.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARHINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAJf.
PERSOMAL
ITEMS
BARNES [?] [?]
Holman’s was an Australian record life
jn the tartshop. He came in with McGowen
as Attorney-General on October 21, 1910,
and succeeded as Premier on June 30, 1913.
Reid was thought to have had a tremendous
run, but he lasted only five years one month.
I hikes s longest was as head of his third
Ministry, and that stretched to only a few 7
days beyond four years. But Old Hairy
was Premier five times, and he was the
lli-Ham for 11 years 10 months altogether.
McTlwraith, of Queensland, holds a record
of a sort: he was either in the lead or the
shafts of five successive Governments, and
had nine years ten months of office, w 7 itli a
slight break w 7 hen he retired from Morehead’s
lot. But for that break he w 7 ould have beaten
Holman’s performance. Mclhvraith beats
him in the number of colleagues he had.
The great Australian performance w 7 as, how-
ever, put up by Richard Dry, of Tasmania,
lie was Premier for nearly three years and
never had more than tw 7 o colleagues.
Condemnation of titles was a feature of
the report of the A.N.A. directors who
talked to the annual conference held at Sale
*2B years ago. Alex. Peacock, theil Minister
of Education in the Shiels team, was a
member of that
directorate. At the
much la rget; con-
ference in the
same town last
month the subject
was as studiously
avoided as the
mention of rope in
a house where a
member of the
family had been
hanged. Peacock
was the only titled
delegate present.
( Peacock’s Cabinet
colleagues in 1901
induced Sydenham
Clarke to recom-
mend him instead
of Wm. McCulloch,
who was in the
running.) But Wise,
. also present, is a
member of a Cab-
inet which contains
a G.C.M.G. and a
military knight.
COLONEL
STURDEE .
P.M.O. of Tic.
Military District
and brother of
Admiral Sturdee.
General Legge, who was brought back
from the Front to be Chief of General Staff,
has had to make way for General White,
with Chauvel as Inspector-General; and
Legge goes to Duntroon as Commandant.
Since he had to shift he would rather have
been given the job of organising the air-
forces of Australia; and he could do that
well, for it means getting the public inter-
ested, and Legge is the best platform talker
among all the senior officers of the Common-
wealth army. But he isn’t a flying man;
and the flying men clamored for one of their
own. Still, as Commandant at Duntroon,
in succession to Parnell (retired), Legge
ought to be a brilliant success. Even bis
early experience as one of the first masters
at Sydney High School will serve him. There
were two ambitious youngsters on the High
School staff in those days. Both were read-
ing law 7 at the time and were presently
admitted to the Bar. (Jne is Legge; the
other Piddington, a High Court Judge for
a day or two and now 7 Chairman of the
Interstate Commission.
George John Bell, the new member in
the lleps. for Danvin (Tas.), is an old
Gippslander, born in ’73. Farming is his
job and soldiering his hobby. He can put
up eight ribbons and honestly earned more.
He first wore uniform as a member of the
Moe detachment of the Vic. Mounted Rifles,
and w 7 as one of the 50 selected to repre-
sent the State at the
Queen’s Diamond
Jubilee in London
in '97. When the
S’A fri c a n row-
started in '99 he
sailed as a private
and came back a
captain with the
D.S.O. Kitchener
asked for his ser-
vices on many of
his personal recon-
naissances. When
the lid blew off in
August, 1914, he
was one of the first
to volunteer. Thii
time he went away
a second lieutenant
in the Third Light
I lorse, and came
back a lieut.-colonel.
LANCE
DE MOLE, the
Australian, who
was the first man
to think out the
“tank” as a war-
engine. The
British authorities
have just rewarded
him with a C.B.E.
Matthew Henry Stephen, who died in Syd-
ney last week, belonged to a family which
runs remarkably true to type. At 90 he
looked 50: it is the Stephen habit to live
long and look young. He had the small,
neat figure, fine features and air of distinc-
tion and authority which characterised his
father, the N. S. Wales Chief Justice, and
his grandfather, Justice John Stephen;
which survives in Consett Stephen and in
Milner Stephen, the barrister; and which
was noticeable in Adrian Stephen, though he
was still a boy when he fell in France. The
late Judge was a sound lawyer, but the
quality in him which stood out was his grave
and patient courtesy. It was extended im-
partially to everyone in court, from the
weightiest Q.C. to the individual in the dock.
The day his father died he was on Circuit,
taking criminal cases at Broken Hill. He
sat on, and it was only when counsel for the
one or two prisoners still to be tried put it
to him that they would feel better if the
Court adjourned for a while that Stephen
said: “I would rather not—but it may not
be fair to them for me to go on at once.
Yes, we will adjourn.” He was a keen
churchman, a strenuous worker on behalf of
public charities, and one of the safest
“marks” in his State for the type of necessi-
tous person who had seen better days. He
was the Senior Puisne Judge when he re-
tired in 1904, and was acting Chief Justice
while Barley, C.J., was in England in 1902.
Alfred Stephen had eight sons in all, and he
was the third.
The latest batch of British Empire
“honors” are as puzzling as any that have
come to hand. Louis Tracy gets a C.B.E.
lie is a journalist and a writer of sensa-
tional novels who did propaganda work in
America for some time. Men like Hilaire
Belloc have got nothing. Yet Belloc’s work
in Land and Water was propaganda de-
signed to keep up the “moral” of the Brit-
ish, an asset which was severely tried during
1917 and the first half of 1918. Captain
Thompson, who was master of one of the
P. and O. cracks (the Malwa) before the
war, is handed an 0.8. E. Why not at least
a C.8.E., if anything at all, seeing that
he repeatedly risked his life in the danger-
zone as skipper of a transport and was ulti-
mately tomedoed? Thompson was chief
officer of the old Arcadia 20 years ago, and
has been plodding between here and Eng-
land practically ever since. De Mole gets
a C.B.E. for his share in the work done by
the tanks; and so does Lady Denman,
whose war-work in London was of a very
perfunctory character. Samuel Barraclough,
a young Sydney Uni. professor, becomes a
knight. He was assistant Censor in Sydney
for a year or so. and then looked after the
Australian munitioners in London. But Pro-
fessor David, a much more distinguished
scientist who did splendid work as a
combatant soldier on the Western front,
remains plain Mr. David.
An elderly gentleman ambling about
among the butter exhibits on judging day
at Sydney Show last week stumbled heavily
over a box of prime dairy fat and blundered
against the harassed democrat who was
arranging picturesque mountains of the
merchandise. “Well, Lord lumme,” roared
the exasperated artist, “if you’re not the
clumsiest old geezer in the world I'll eat
all the butter in sight.” “Well, I believe
I am, so don’t bother," said the elderly
party as he toddled off to a critical exam-
ination of some cheese. It was Governor-
General Ferguson.
Dave Nathan, who left Wellington (M.L.)
the other day for Abraham’s bosom, inher-
ited many ducats and a thriving business
from father Joseph. To David also was
bequeathed a nose very well shaped for
keeping on the scent of more ducats. He
prospered exceedingly out of butter and
the conversion of Strawberry’s Juice into
powder. Oddly enough for a Hebrew money-
spinner, he yearned after political distinc-
tion, and spent many hours trying to per-
suade Dick Seddon and Joe Ward to send
him to the Leg. Council. But it never came
off. Ward made him a director of the
Bank of New Zealand instead. Once on
a visit to Melbourne in John Murray’s time
the garrulous Jew got an appointment with
John for the purpose of explaining his views
on banking. John quickly diagnosed what
had happened to him. Nathan afterwards
explained the interview this way: “After
I had been speaking for about live minutes
lie got up from his chair and, apologising
for the interruption, closed the door, and
lighting his pipe lay down on a couch.
‘Now go ahead,’ he said. So I went ahead
and put the whole thing before him, and
then I had to wake him up.” He was
quite humorless, never took exercise, smoked
strong cigars, married twice, had chronic
bad health, and lasted 62 passovers.
There was a touch of pathos in G. A.
Lee’s farewell address to his old constituents
at Coraki (N.S.W.) the other evening. The
ex-father of the House told that retirement
was forced upon him because of eye trouble
following an operation, from which came
an almost total loss of memory in regard
to names—even the names of those nearest
to him. A cheque to mark appreciation of
his work on behalf of the Mid-Richmond
was an unexpected gift to the old warrior.
Though he accepted it only as a trustee he
confessed that after 35 years of public • ser-
vice lie was £lO,OOO worse off than when
he started.
The N. S. Wales elections brought Holman
two disappointments. As soon as the count
of primary votes was known it was obvious
that Holman had been beaten at Coota-
niundra. It also looked as if a Liberal in
another electorate was sure to get a quota
on the second preferences. Wherefore this
Liberal in a spasm of generosity volunteered
to resign his seat for Holman’s convenience.
Next day the generous individual found him-
self well down the list, without Buckley’s
chance of the seat he had decided to abandon.
Another Liberal got all the preferences in
a lump, and he isn’t saying anything about
resigning.
Archbish. Mannix having declined a large
cash offering towards which John Wren
had advertised his anxiety to Contribute
£5OOO, Wren had notes to burn in the cause
of St. Pat., and be burned a large bundle
of them in engaging the company of V.C.
winners and/paying for the organisation of
sundry “demonstrations” and a lot of pic-
torial publicity. Hence his presence on the
platform, together with Mannix and the
V.C. winners, at the concert in Melbourne
Exhibition Building. And that is how it
came to pass that “in presenting Mr. John
Wren with a photograph, Dr. Mannix said
that he wished he was able to confer a
V.C. on Mr. Wren.” Why? The very
stones of Collingwood (where his tote used
to be) and the dirt of his pony-race grounds
must have cried out against such a glori-
fication, whereas the local Orange Lodges
certainly clapped their hands in encourage-
ment.
It seems that Whitmore Carr can be presi-
dent of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide as
long as he likes. He has just been re-
elected for the 15th successive year.
John Hilton Mackay, professor and good
man of business,- who has made the engineer-
ing school at the Tas. Uni. a live department,
has decided that he has had enough of pro-
fessing. Alan Burn, a graduate of the school,
who held a Walter and Eliza Hall travelling
scholarship and put in the war period in
British munition works, will try to fill his
shoes. Mackay, a tall, handsome, well-
dressed, breezy individual, not a bit like
a professor ought to be, has been running, as
a side-line, in partnership with his brother,
a big sawmill and farm in the nor’-west of
the Speck. Some noted prize Romney
Marsh sheep have been raised there.
Tope Cooper, Bananaland's Chief Justice,
won’t accept the cable as an authority. When
Lennon was appointed Lieut.-Governor
nothing but the King’s signature and the
Royal Seal would satisfy. In the ordinary
course of events McCawley, ,T.. will take his
seat on the Supreme Court Bench, but the
Crown Law author
rities know the C. J.
so well that it is
unlikely they will
take the risk of ask-
ing McCawley to
appear until the
signatures of their
Honcl’s of the
Privy Council
arrive by registered
mail. When McCaw-
ley was presented
on the disputed
commission, the
C.J. and his learned
brothers refused to
swear the young
Judge in, and the
job was performed
by McNaughton. of
the Arbitration
Court.
“ALPHABETI-
CAL” REID,
Manor of Manly,
who, to the joy
of the cartoonists,
has been elected
for a North Shore
seat in the
N.S.W. Assembly.
An art critic in the Gallery:—
Caricaturists must be disappointed by the facial
propriety of the new House of Reps. For the most
part the dials are distinguished by an agony of
rectitude in their ground plans. The most promis-
ing face is that of Wienholt, but it is a certain
foreignness of aspect, rather than any disgraceful
ostentation in nose or cars, that attracts the pencil.
Walter Marks is arresting in profile, mainly because
of his full-length nose. In Cameron you get the
dial of the fighting man, caricaturable chiefly for
cranial rugged ness and super-chin. Marr’s is also
of the fighting type, but Nature has sand-papered
its belligerence. Bowden, the new member for
Nepean, is most interesting from aloft when you can
see , the round bald head pushing up through the
tonsured halo of greying hair. Lazzarini provides
the best subject on the Labor side. Black-haired,
with a nose like a falcon, and little eyes half-
banished in the caverns of the skull, he completes
with his black clothes and black passion a sort
of symphony of midnight in a Bolshevik lair.
Makin’s face is a pictorial symposium of arehangelic
attributes, and Lavelle’s is a certain passport to a
commission among the seraphim. Gabb has a wan-
dering nose and mouth to keep it company, but
he isn’t as attractive as Cunningham with his
aggressive profile. As for Ryan, he becomes a joy
to the artist who realises the tragedy of a small,
timid nose threatened with extinction by the over-
whelming cheeks.
While they are in London Collins, secre-
tary to the Treasury, will try to persuade
Watt that he (Collins) is th.e man for the
vacant joh of secretary to the High Commis-
sioner. Griffiths, formerly of llorseferry-
road, might have had the job; but the
chances ahead of an Administrator at
Rabaul joined with the £l3OO a year to pull
him that way.
There’s an Alelong (N.S.W.) family
that insurance offices love. W. D. Smith
arrived in that village in 1859, and at the
present day he and his wife have 11 chil-
dren, 30 grandchildren and two great-
grandchildren: and thus far there has not
been a single death in the big family.
During the last phases of the N. S. Wales
election count, Circumstance surrounded
■Jabez Wright with a unique importance.
Elected, he stood for Labor’s absolute
majority in the new House; his defeat
meant an exact division of Labor and anti-
Labor forces. It was just that Jabez should
get this limelight; for lie was easily the most
unique of the members in the commonplace
old House. The undertaker from Broken
Hill used to sit at Labor conferences in his
shirt-sleeves; and since his return to Par-
liament he has persisted in his. refusal
to wear a collar or a tie. He relieved the
monotony of debates in Parliament by his
picturesque introduction of the personality
of Jabez Wright: how would Jabez Wright
feel if, having invested his savings in a pub.
he had his business taken without compensa-
tion? Or how could Jabez Wright live on
the present old-age pension in view of the
increased cost of living? Every session he
moved, too, that Parliament should regard
itself as a working institution and do its
business during the day.
WILL-O’ THE-WISP.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
1 went in quest of the profiteer
And my heart was tree from guile;
I merely wondered if he were grey,
And wore his hat in the usual way
And if he could sometimes smile—
I did not wish for his blood, you see;
It was love of science prompted me.
Old Browne, who’s head of a big “Lane” store.
Grew hot when he talked of him ;
He vowed that the breed was all about,
And he breathed a prayer in words devout
But with supplication grim,
That a terrible snare or a pitfall black
Should lie in wait on the shrewd rogue’s track.
A wholesale butcher with rage grew red ;
A man who owned ships was stern; "
They both agreed that the thief was vile ;
Drapers and grocers were wroth the while
They roasted him to a turn;
A society dame with face of brass
Wept loud tor “us of the middle class.”
They all had witnessed his wiles and crimes
And had trembled before his name.
I hurried on in m3 7 honest quest
W ith never a pause for bite or rest.
Defeat, I admit, with shame.
I have found his victims far and near;
But where the deuce is the profiteer)
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.


..A
m
IS
/
c
m
m
mm
m
m
I
\
Av
S*k
m
i?
r<
!ii
;'l Q
®S
||g
!
m
A.r
<"
A,'
f
IN«£|&
If.
R
THE man who orders an Austral Sac Suit, to Measure, can be
assured of two important things. He has choice of the smartest
of the season s patterns. He obtains the exercise of the highest
skill and the ripest tailoring experience.
In these days of increased costs, it is well to know that “Austral” Sac
Suits, to Measure, still include all that style, quality, workmanship and com-
fortable, perfect fit which have made them standard.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS
TO MEASURE
95/-, 105/-, 115/-, £6161-, £6/15/-, £7/7-, £B/8/-, to £lO 15 -
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is allowed
Returned Soldiers in Uniform on all Cash Purchases of £5 or over.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY,
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY
486-490
GEORGE STREET,
ail £UQ DNIMOD
3 to 17
ROYAL ARCADE,
Everything for Men's and Boys' Wear,
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY


A Strong Boot for Country Wear.
Built for hard wear and wet places—a boot of
extreme strength, absolutely waterproof, and yet
comfortable to the feet. .Made with high legs,
stout leather lining, extra-wide welts, heavy
double rope-stitched soles (with sheet rubber
packed between). Full-cut water-tight tongues,
rounded toes. This boot is fully recommended
for station, farm and general outdoor wear in
rough country.
Tan Colt Hide . . 50/-
In Black . . . . 45/-
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
Please state size and width of fitting.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
hf
te It Oman
KA*
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
JSPEPALTIES
Creams
zrd
Pastes '’*■
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
I ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney ;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON f
| AQENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WOULD jj
'W
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3ig guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
SOCIETY
Our young idea gets down to essentials
very early. Hutchinson, Vic. Minister of
Education, on visiting Burnley State school
the other day, explained that he was a little
late because he had lingered at a Carltop
school. Then he asked the kiddies what
Carlton was famous for. He didn’t have to
wait for an answer. One-half instantly
roared “Beer!” the other half “Football!”
The University wasn’t even an also-ran.
* * * *
“Private Centpercent”: “0.8. E.” in his
anti-Semitic frenzy (B. 25/3/’2O) has over-
done it. So an “average Digger” who hap-
pens to be also a Jew offers a few official
figures
•Jews in A.1.F... .. .. .. .48 per cent.
Do. in Australian population . . .35 „ ~
.Jewish population in A.I.F. . . . . 11.5 „ ~
Australian population in A.I.F. . . 9.2 „ ~
•Jews killed in action .. .. 15 „ ~
A.I.F. killed and missing .. .. 14 „ „
There were 195 Jewish officers (not 66).
and 1809 other ranks (not 995). These
2000-odd Jewish Diggers managed to catch
(by leads winging, of course) 75 military
distinctions, not including purely staff and
base awards, like Monash’s, and including
a V.C., an M.M. and bar. an M.C. and bar
and five D.C.M.’s. I haven’t the U.K.
figures, but would rather take Monash’s
word than “0.8.E.’5,” judging by the experi-
ence I’ve now had of both.
“Murkah”: In these days it is preposter-
ous that a ship should proceed on an ocean
voyage without wireless equipment. Take
the case of the Kulambangra. This vessel,
from a wireless point of view, was one of
the very best ever fitted in Australia. She
traded from Sydney to the Solomons, and her
//// ihfilH!
jjjj 1,1,i11j !!t
;!l1 itjMiill till
signals were audible at
any station in Austral-
asia. She was then sold
overseas, and her econom-
ical buyers had the wire-
less dismantled. Half-
way across the. Indian
Ocean she broke down,
and for six long dreary
weeks’ drifted about,
With her freakishly-good
wireless she could have
reached half a dozen
land-stations and prob-
ably a. score of ships.
With freights on the rise
the money “saved” on
the wireless was the
poorest investment that
shipping co. ever made.
When It is remembered
that the Persic, although
diligently searched for.
managed to lose herself
for six weeks or so in
the comparatively small
ocean-paddock between
here and M.L., it becomes
evident that the Kulam-
bangra could have drifted
till Port Starvation was
sighted. Shipowners can-
not be trusted to have
any bowels whatever.
Some of them hav e ;
others are utterly indif-
ferent to anything but quick profit. It.
is folly, therefore, to trust to their humanity.
Whatever civilisation thinks should be done
in connection with shipping must be written
down accordingly on the tables of the law.
“W.0.T.G.8.” ; “Copabella” (B. 25/3/’2O)
wonders whether the time hasn’t ceme to tell
the truth about the King’s “accident” in
France in 1915. We were near Pozieres
when I heard the story as told by the driver
of a W.D. lorry belonging to a 2nd Army
Sig. Co. The King, he said, alighted from his
car on the pavement side, and walked round
the back of it to cross over the road. lie
emerged just in time to meet the lorry, which
struck him with sufficient force to knock him
out. The driver lived for weeks afterwards
in terror of the consequences; but nothing
happened. There were other yarns, I know ;
but this one was circumstantial.
George Maxwell’s vindication of free
speech and the right of British and Austra-
lian people to discuss the kind of govern-
ment suitable for Ireland, was the feature of
the trial of Robert Fraser, who, because he
had printed the Republic newspaper, issued
at the time of the Irish Race Convention,
was charged with “wicked, malicious and
seditious libel.” Maxwell’s oratory was
reminiscent of the renowned “redeemed, re-
generated and disenthralled” speech of Cur-
THE WRONG MEDIUM.
“I desire to thank Almighty God for His mercy
in saving me from a broken limb on Friday last.”
—Sydney TELEGRAOH ad.
THE SHADE: “You don’t know me? Didn’t
you see my advertisement in the Tele-
graph ?”
PETER: “Goodness, no! We take the
HERALD.”
ran iu defence of Michael Hamilton Rowan,
who was indicted on a precisely similar
charge in Ireland in 1794. When counsel
had finished and the freshly-wigged
McArthur had spoken a few words of robust
commonsense to the jury, the 12 told Fraser
TOUJOURS LA POUTESSE.
“There y’are, lydy—lovely toms. Barrin’
yerself, they ain’t got their equal in
Australia!’’
that gaol was not the place for him. Max-
well’s thunder has almost reconciled Celts
to his victory over Hannan at Fawkner in
December.
The report of A. G. M. Mitchell, the
engineering expert appointed to inquire into
the relative merits of the seven-notch and the
four-notch magnetic brake for use on elec-
trie trams, justifies the
action of the men employed
by the Hawthorn and P’ran-
Malvern Trusts in institut-
ing what the Argus de-
scribed as a “lazy strike.”
Convinced that the four-
notch brake meant undue
risk for the public and them-
selves, they proceeded
strictly to enforce the regu-
lations governing speed,
etc., drawn up by the
Trusts, with the result that
chaos supervened, as the
regulations were evidently
never intended to be obeyed,
but merely te be used for
making a scapegoat of a
motorman or staving off a
claim for damages in case
of an accident. Mitchell
reported in favor of the
seven-notch brake advocated
by the men, pointing out
that “an equipment which
requires, as the four-notch
arrangement does, the con-
joint use of two brakes of
different types, whilst the
car is travelling at high
speeds, is very undesirable,
and there is a considerable
risk of even practised motor-
men making mistakes in
such double operations at
moments of sudden danger.”
So it would seem that the “lazy strikers,”
whose action in obeying regulations incon-
venienced some of Melbourne’s naieest
suburbanites, were really acting for the
good of Haw-hawthorn.
“Macquarie Street” on the home of Syd-
ney hospital nurses: —
The decision of the directors of Sydney
Hospital to shift the quarters of the nursing start
from the old comfortable Nightingale Wing, which
has sheltered so many hundred nurses during the last
40 years or more (I can go back five-and-thirty
years), to a malodorous region of Woolloomooloo,
brings to mind the part the ancient wing has played
in the development and progress of the hospital.
In the old days the wing, built of stone, reared
its head proudly among the collection of wooden
hovels that did duty for medical and surgical wards,
and which rejoiced in the names G, 11, J and IC.
These decaying structures were a disgrace to the
metropolis, and a little before my time septicaemia
flourished to such a degree that patients were
frightened to go to Sydney Hospital even for the
most trivial injury. A path led from the wing,
between the mouldering walls of the partially-erected
“new buildings,” along to a narrow door which
opened upon Macquarie-street, and which was tin-
sole means of getting in or out of the hospital.
This was called “the gate,” so that “a case at the
gate” meant that someone was seeking treatment and
required the services of the resident medical-officer
on duty. At “the gate” for many a year stood old
Pearson, the janitor, polishing his eternal island
shell with a file and some acid, and keeping his
weather-eye open for any nurse who happened to
come in late without the necessary late pass. Wc
resident medical-officers were housed in an old
weatherboard barn that abutted directly on Mac-
quarie-street, and which must have been an eyesore
to passers-by.
There were a couple of shoots reaching from the
upper wards to the ground, and down these shoot-
the corpses were slid in long oblong basket-’.
When they were not being used for this purpose
the washing was shot down in bundles. I remember
one of my delirious pneumonia patients going for
a slide down one of these shoots clad only in hi-
night-rail, with a nurse in hot pursuit. The
adventure seemed to hasten his recovery. I n the
Nightingale Wing there used to be a one-bed ward
and a small, dark operating-room, sacred to the
gynecological cases of the late Thomas Chambers;
but the rest of the building was reserved for the
accommodation of the nurses, and it has remained
their home ever since. The prospect of losing ,’t
has proved too much for their equilibrium, and all
of them have signified their intention of resigning
should the directors’ project be persisted in. But,
apart from the sentimental aspect of the matter,
and that is enormously important, there is the
economic. Unquestionably the start ought to be
housed in a building in which their duty lias. Their
own convenience is something; but the well-being
of patients is more, and that, will assuredly suffer.
To avoid this it is to be hoped that the authoritie-
will proceed to build their new wards (if new
wards are required) .somewhere else.
All manner of things have been going
astray on the Vie. railways, among recent
casualties being a piano, some truckloads
of stock and a variety of other bulky goods.
But the limit was reached when the Argus
announced that somebody had missed a
train.
* * ft
The matter arose through one Winstanley
having gone to the war and Mrs. Winstanley
having philandered with one Janies during her
husband’s absence, wherefore Winstanley
aforesaid desired a decree of Justice Scliutt
in Melbourne. At this stage appeared James’s
wife, who not only forgave her erring hus-
band hut herself paid £225 into court as
damages for the wrong he had done. Either
Mrs. James is an exceptionally generous
woman or .Tames is an unusually attractive
husband. Perhaps both.
EXPLAINED AT LAST.
ABDENT ARTIST: “Pictorial art, my friend,
is visual musie!’'
HELPFUL FRIEND: “Ah, now I sec — you’re
painting a jazz.”
“Greentape”: Treasurer McPherson and
Chief Secretary Baird arc talking of closing
Melbourne Gaol and handing the land over
to the Workingmen’s College. Every Gov-
eminent has proposed the same thing for
the last 20 years, but done nothing. Bent
got very near to it. He called the prison
a club, and wasn’t far out. Maryborough
Gaol or part of it was pulled down to help
to build a school, and Kilmore Gaol was
turned into a, butter factory Itisahme
keeping prisons at Beechworth and. Sale. The
hncks m the wall of Sale Gaol would build
homes for perhaps half a dozen soldieis.
( Continued on page 18.)
ORCHARD RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
Gome, wander with me in the orchard, love, where
the colors of autumn glow
hike leaping flames in the cherry-tree, and the pear-
houghs, high and low,
\re golden-brown in the mellow rays of the fast-
declining sun,
While the mudlark echoes my thoughts of you with
his racketing “You’re the one!”
Observe, dear Emma, the swelling globes that garnish
the guava-bush,
And— there’s the cow at the nectarine! To blitzes
with' you, you— whoosh!
The quince is covered with saffron fruit. In the
green of the passion-vine,
Half-hidden, the purple harvest hangs—this morning
I counted nine.
Black Hamburg grapes (or they should be black,
though they’re usually greeny-grey)
Are draped, you sec, on the woodshed, Em, in a
really attractive way ;
And a carpet of wind-blown leaves is yellow and
crimson beneath our feet....
One moment, Emma. I’ve got to hop on these
blighted shellbacks, sweet.
See the London pippin,, now lemon-pale, down there
by the water-tap.
U hat's that on your gloves? Why, birdlime, dear,
that I smear on the starling-trap.
Each pippin will weigh a pound or so, and some of
them more, maybe;
And, the jargonelle—aw, look at the wretches,
swarming right up the tree!
Excuse me, dear, for a moment, while I run for my
poison-pump;
I've got to keep these da-er-dreadful pear-slugs on
the jump.
Note the Home Beauty, drooping there with its
burden of gorgeous red.
Emma, look out —oh, drat! You’re walking all over
the strawberry-bed,
And the —wowf ! Oh, bust my blistering luck—er,
Em, pup-pardon, please.
Excuse me, love, if I sit awhile and fondle my aching
knees.
I hope—ha, ha ! —you will overlook, oh, gr-r-r, I’ll
be blithered and blest!
Both knees bang through the tomato-frame! T)a-da*h
the confounded pest.
Emma, you’re what? Not going, m’dear? Why, I've
got a surprise for you.
I wanted to show you the lily-pond, love, and the
dear little ducklings, too.
And you ought to visit the beehive, Em. Why
should you hurry away?
The horrible temper I seem to have? And the ter-
rible things I say ?
I ought to be really ashamed of—why, why, dash-it-
all, Em, I am!
Emma! She’s gone—she’s bally well gone 1. .. . Well,
let ’er be gone. Now, Damn !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


The Magnificent Pianola Piano
V
r
1/
%
vr
>S
7
V
15*
v>
<£*
A
.-:
V
\
>2
L
<Ai
>■*»
II * II 5 II S 11 5 II
A Truly
Munificent Gift
MUSIC— Good Music—PIANOLA MUSIC carries
always with it such unlimited pleasure that
the happiest choice of all, fully worthy of
every festive occasion, is the giving of the marvell-
ous PIANOLA PIANO. In value, in service, in
construction —in every way it establishes an un-
assailable standard so often sought in imitations
but never attained. It is an Exquisite PERMANENT
Present, offering lifetime gratification.
an extremely small initial
PAYMENT and very little monthly
amounts make it convenient to pay for the
PIANOLA at your leisure. A glance at
the booklet that is forwarded on request will
tell you much of the PIANOLA merits; but
to call and hear, as well as play yourself, some
favoured melodies, will soon fascinate you
with the simplicity and beauty of this highly
esteemed instrument.
PIANOLA is only obtainable from
PIANOLA COMPANY, and in
the following Pianos: The Steinway,
Aeolian Steele, Aeolian Stroud, and the
Engish-made Aeolian Wtber- See that
the Instrument you buy bears the name
“ PIANOLA,” the Registered Trade Mark
of the Pianola Company. This is to safeguard
you when offered elsewhere a Pianola Piano
that is not a Pianola.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
Please send me the Pianola Piano
Catalog
Name
Address
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
— PTY. LTD.
“ 77je Centre of the World's Greatest Achievements in Musical Instruments ”
384 George Street,
Sydney


Do Not Remain aClerk
~¥ n £ er OUr €X Pert experienced guidance yon will become a skilled,
qualified accountant rapidly and economically. With the knowledge you will
gam and the Degree, almost any executive position is within vour reach.
Hundreds of our students have achieved “10 years’ promotion in one’’
by qualifying. Why not do the same? The expense is small—the reward
great.
BECOME A QUALIFIED ACCOUNTANT.
Don’t delay. Start now for promotion.
Write or call for our 80-page book. Explains exactly how to qualify
and what it means to you.
Enquiry costs you nothing. Get the Free Book To-day.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Building?
Custom Street.
“FIRST IN IS97—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Ilamor ’: The A.I.F. authorities were
r inc , to the m( : n who did not Yvant to
light but had no objection to spending time
in clink Every battalion had its little
batch who always managed to fall into
trouble just about the time the unit was
going into the line; and, while the battalion
moved out to tne place where real men got
killed and wounded, the prisoners, under
escort, marched back, with grins on their
faces, to the safety of the divisional detention
compound. The guard-rooms in England
were also full of men who displayed a burst
of lawlessness just after they had 'been placed
on draft for France, and who were, as a rule,
stiuck olf the draft- until their offences were
expiated. Some were unfortunate and met
officers who declined to sentence them, but.
instead, pushed them firmly on the trains
tor. Ii ranee. * Whilst these trains were on
their way to or Folkestone there :
THE HIGH COST OF LOVING.
FIRST WIFE : “ Nowadays it's almost impos-
sible to get wliat you want.”
SECOND DITTO: “Quite! Formerly my hus-
band would give me anything if I
merely cried for it. Now I have to go
into hysterics.”
was always some trouble: the obvious way
out for the man who wanted to break his
journey was to hop out and fight a military
policeman or assault an officer. When the
wholesale remission of fines and penalties is
demanded, it is just as well to remember
what tvas the cause of a vast number of
them. I have pointed out the gross injustice
of many pay forfeitures, and refunds should
be made; but it should be done by a tri-
bunal capable of a revision of unjust pun-
ishments. To hand out a wholesale remis-
sion without inquiry would be merely to pay
a lot of shirkers for their past shirking.
“Wessel”: The Manilamen are the most
interesting of the brown and other-colored
persons who stvim about Darwin. They
all or nearly all have Spanish names, and
many, of them speak the language of the
bull-ring. Some few look as if they had
Spanish blood in them, but most are as dark
as any other Malays. By some trick of
fate the darkest of the lot —he is nearly as
THE PAST AND THE PRESENT.
black as a negro—answers to the name of
bpain. In many cases these Manila-
men are old-timers who left the Philip-
pines for their health in the old unquiet
days of Spanish rule; a few have been mixed
up in anti-American stirs under Aquinaldo
and other !• llipino leaders since. Before the
got pretty well a monopoly of it the
Manila men did a lot of the pearl-diving at
Thursday Island. They are usually clever
boatmen, and m intelligence far abo\ r e the
Koepangers, who come over from Timor to
man the Darwin fleet. In religion they are
more-or-less Catholics. Frequently less.
Rosalie . : Pain has the same influence
on morphia and spirits—it partly neu-
tral'ises their
effects. A cobber
of mine was dis-
embowelled by a
shell on Gallipoli,
and took enough
morphia to finish
half a dozen men.
That was the last
I saw of him then,
and I Tilly ex-
pected to see him
posted amongst the
dead. I met him,
apparently halo
and hea r t y in
Brisbane the other
day. Instead of
killing him the
morphia saved his
life, as it kept him
... . <i.-> j.i ivt-pt uiiu
still tor the first couple of days, which is the
critical time with a wound of this description.
“Dido” witnesses a tragedy :
The argument started under the lamp-post, after
Giuseppe had ground out half a mile or so of
popular airs without receiving any adequate reward.
Ihe organist yanked Beppo the monk up short, and
snarled ‘ \\ hat ees eet ? What-a ees eet de matter
wit you all-a de time ?” The monkey snarled, and
snatched at Giuseppe’s nose. “Ah-ah! So so! You
have-a the no more manners. Scarr, I preak every
the bone in-a the leg. So.” He gave the monk a
pinch Beppo clawed with both hands and snarled
viciously. ‘‘Ah, ver’ fine,” said Giuseppe—“ver’
fine for-a you. Lead-a ze life of ze swell, do-a
notting, make-a the bad language when I spik-a to
you. Ah, the dirty the monk!” He slapped Bepoo
on the side of the head. Beppo fastened on his
forefinger and bit sharply. Giuseppe uttered a shrill
cry. “I call-a the polis. Poll's! Polis !” He sucked
his. finger and addressed numerous splenetic admo-
nitions to his monkey. “For notting I sell-a you,
for notting at-a all—to the Chinaman. He make-a
the fine stew. Dirty monk!” Beppo spat. Giuseppe
turned to the crowd: “There, you hear. You hear
heem. I bin ver’ good-a father to that monk, breeng
heem up welL Leesten!” Beppo chattered angrily.
Suddenly Giuseppe tossed his hat on the ground
and swept Beppo away with a Roman malediction.
The monkey fled into the road. A passing motor-
car just got him. Giuseppe sank to the kerb, gazing
down at the mangled body between his feet, his
face as grey as ashes, tears coursing down his cheeks.
He sat thus for minutes. Then, with a puckered
face, he came up to me. “You hear what I say
about-a de monk? Yes? Do not-a belief,” he said
with pitiful earnestness. “He is s all dam’ lies what
I say. D e monk de bes’ lil’ fellah in all-a de
worl’. Poo’ lil-a, good lil-a fellah. I tell-a all
hees frien’s Giuseppe Viscontin mees’rable liar.” He
beat on his breast with both hands. “Mees’rable
liar!” he repeated, and went on his way.
“Black B.”: The accoutrements of the
Germans got very inferior and were largely
shoddy during the last stages of the war.
lb ten their artificial teeth suffered the general
deterioration. A set taken by a Queensland
Digger from a dead Hun were made en-
tirely of aluminium. The teeth were not
separate, but only marked on the metal,
smile from such a set of grinders!
“Uncle Bosh”: “Silas Snell” (B. 25/3/’2O)
on the garrulous little man who took round
the plate and hated threepenny-bits reminds
me of a tragedy. My aunt-in-law is a hand-
some woman who buys fine clothes and knows
how to wear ’em. ' One Sunday
while she was staying with us .she
decided to go to church with our
small son as A.D.C. When she
had arrayed herself in her latest
London gear she looked like the
Queen of Sheba. “Have you got
sixpence?’ she demanded. I
searched my pockets and reported
“Nothing less than a shilling.
Won’t that do?” She gasped at the
extravagance of it. “I can’t afford
more than sixpence. Oh, here’s a
threepenny-bit! That’ll be enough.”
The procession then moved off.
Just before dinner the poor lady
arrived home purple all over. “The
verger showed me into the front
seat!” she wailed. “When the
wretched plate came to me it had
nothing in it. Fortunately I had
the presence of mind to pass the
threepenee to Reginald, and he put
it in. Wasn’t it dreadful ?”
• « •
From the Bar table:—
" Two breach-of-promise cases were before the
N. S. Wales courts recently which cast a suggestive
beam on the state of the law in this respect.
Damages are rarely worth mentioning in cases
of breach unless there has been seduction. Yet for
various reasons most men find it less disastrous to
be involved in a divorce than in a breach-of-promise
suit. In affairs of the heart the man who flees is
always more ridiculous than he who pursues; and
it is ridicule that hurts in the long run. Which is
one of the reasons why for every breach suit which
comes before a Court hundreds are settled outside.
To put it otherwise, many hundreds of innocent men
submit to blackmail, year by year, rather than face
the derision of their friends and neighbors.
Cases are fought out usually (1) where defendant
has refused to part up any money at all, being
guiltless; (2) where the demands are so exorbitant
that defendant’s lawyers advise him to fight; (3)
where plaintiff has been seduced and deserted. An
innocent ntan gets a certain amount of protection
from the Evidence Amendment Act (1869), which
provides that plaintiff must produce better proof of
a promise than her bare word. On the other hand,
juries—and Judges, too —pay the same attention to
inessentials, where the female is attractive or her
counsel unscrupulous, as they did when Bardell v.
Pickwick was fought. The second example is simply
one of the laggard being forced to take his medicine ;
the lady or her backers well knowing that thev
will get little more than revenge out of the business.
The law was never intended to be exploited in this
manner. In the third case the lady proceeds for
the lack of any other remedy. No action can be
brought against a man for robbing a woman of
what has been described as her greatest treasure,
though a father may get a trifling sum by proving
“loss of services.”
An outcome of this anomaly. or injustice is a
considerable amount of perjury. Marriage may never
have been so much as breathed to the betrayed
girl, but £he has every imaginable cause to say it
was; and her outraged relations feel justified in
backing up her lies with corroborative evidence, if
seduction was made actionable the only real excuse
for retaining our breach-of-promise laws would
vanish. There would still be blackmail, of course.
But there would be less of it. And no female who
really needed protection against the wiles of the
hunter Man would be seriously prejudiced.
* * *
“Copabella”: No wonder in handing the
Post Office portfolio to Wise Hughes said
“And may the Lord have mercy on your
soul!” There’s never a busy day when he
won’t meet with incidents like this. A
mail delivery had dropped in revenue below
the 40 per cent, under cost of maintenance
which the Department does not mind mak-
ing up, and the route was marked down for
extinction. A hullabaloo arose at once, and
district politicians were asked by impas-
sioned backblockers to justify their exist-
ence by scotching this dastardly attempt of
“l® 1 ■ cui 't a il the small amenities
of the Man on the Land. The result was
that an inspector was sent out to Black
Dog Plat to see what really were the facts
ot the case. lie found the long route, which
on the map served two “townships,” had
upon it two homesteads only—those of the
receiving-office keepers. The mail contractor
was the grocer of a neighboring town; and
what the Government really paid for was the
delivering of the groceries.
* * * *
“Spare Corporal”: In August, 1919, a re-
turned soldier who wanted a clerical job with
the N. S. Wales State Government followed
advice and registered his name with the
1 üblic Service Board. In January, five
months later, w r hen he had almost forgotten
about his application, an invitation came to
him to attend an examination. There were
so many applicants, more than half of them
returned men, that the examination was held
in three batches. Those who attended w’ere
informed that they would be notified of the
result, and, if successful, their names would
be placed in a list as eligible for employment
as it became available. This is the end of
March and so far there has been no notifica-
tion ; but one or two of the examinees who
TP-*'
THE INCREASED COST OF SINNING.
The Prisoner (heavily fined): “Ten quid!
Strewtl, yer a lot of blanky profiteers”
have troubled to inquire have learnt that “no
results are yet available.” Meantime men
who have not been asked to attend any
examination have been put on for “temporary
work”—which may last for years—in vari-
ous State Departments. This is the sort
of thing that has fed-up the Digger. He
hates to be tricked.
MRS. MARTHA TOORAK’S TRAGIC ERROR.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
f>,r T A he n rf buta i! te ?’ m be Presented to the Prince bv
the A.D.C with the words, ‘Miss Blank, sir.’ The
I,"® 6 !,! 1 bo ''’ an d offer his afim to her, but she
c" 1 b ®. sure . , tO , mak e a curtsey before taking it.
fiii Vi rf .^ las spoken no word—nor must she
pif the t Pn " e ? l *P eaks to her. When meeting the
Punce at a ball a girl must be seen, but not heard. ’
It was an unforgivable mistake:
I never should have let her meet the Prince.
She, a most modern damsel—wideawake
And quite devoid of nerves! She made me wince,
I lie off-hand way she laughed and talked with all.
1 was quite mad to ask her to the ball.
Beside their chaperons the others stood,
Prepared to loyally observe each rule.
Closely they watched the Aide. What was the good?
His Highness entered from the vestibule.
She broadly smiled, without the slightest shame;
He saw her, and (oh, horror 1) did the same.
She did not curtsey at the Royal feet:
I doubt if anyone had taught her how.
The Prince, oblivious of all those sweet,
Shy well-schooled maidens waiting for his bow,
1 urned on the jade a beaming countenance
And shouted gaily, “What about a dance?”
You’ll never guess her answer. No, my dear,
She did not murmur, “Sir, you honor me” ;
Or “Oh! I am not worthy, sir, I fear,”
And blush and look as though she’d like to flee
Hey answer was (it struck me like a blow) :
‘Wait till I put this bouquet down Right-o /"
Iheieafter, as in some appalling dream,
I watched them jazzing up and down the room.
1 heir conversation in a steady stream
(< Continued, filling me with utter gloom.
‘ Avoid our host,” I heard her say, “he’s ‘blind.’ ”
His Royal Highness did not seem to mind.
r must have been quite, quite demented when
I asked the creature to the house, my dear.
Princes appear to be like other men:
(< llis Highness likes the dreadful girl, I fear.
( 1 want to meet Miss Blank again,” said he.
Those were his parting words, last night, to me.
x.s.w.
J. B. D.


—.
*
s*
m
■ .. -
v - '
\ -
MN
M
m
k:
2
Wi
«$»«
6.De
<v
r.
\
0
v
Your mercer sells them
SHIRTS
are distinctive, durable, and
faultless in fit. And their .
quality is not matched
anywhere


SGEWO%
•'’EXTRAHIGH GRADE**
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
V
deaf?
You can HEAR,
and we prove it
by posting you an
easy-to-wear
flgjusticon
No deposit, obligation, or expense. Over
33(»,(HJU delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has been using
the "Acousticon” for more than five veara!
lamSOl\= fcore Co 19? Dakin & House. SYDNEY
i/OUiawn SerVK . e vO oiderfleet. Collins St., MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 nigh st., ChrUtc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
A Signal Success
wmsisar
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
ABORIGNAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Bad Australian”: In the old bush days
we used lime, wood-ash, charcoal and alum to make
the water from the dam or stagnant “crijc” better
for drinking or washing our white moles and Sunday
shirt. But we could never secure the results the
South American gets with penco. Two or three
pounds of penco mashed and mixed with a barrel-
full of .brackish sludge can be relied on to make
a good supply of drinkable water, as clear as cry-
stal and sufficiently “softened” to beguile even the
tired South American into doing his own laundry
work. Penco is the common or bush variety of
prickly-pear.
» # * *
“Belmont”: The willie-wagtail who,
according to a recent Abo. writer, massacred his
family because they had been handled, behaved quite
contrary to my experience of that cheerful little
Australian. About a month ago Willie was rear-
ing a family in a fruit-tree at my dugout, and my
youngsters got an idea that Willie's youngsters
weren’t getting enough to eat. So every morning
they climbed the tree and fed the chicks, who
weren't in the least particular where the gnib
came from as long as it had no bones in it. The
little Willies had to submit to a daily handling
while their condition was being discussed, but
neither of the parent birds showed any violent
resentment.
* * * *
“Ham”: Queensland Government has
secured six flame-throwers from the British authori-
ties for use against the flying-fox army. Experi-
ments made with the devilish implements resulted
in flame being thrown 120 ft., and it looks as
though the pests are due for some unpleasant
experiences. But if flame-throwers, why not poison-
gas ? There may yet be “stunts” in which a whole
infested district will be drenched. And how about
using bombs to break up the happiness of rabbit-
warrens? The system the Diggers in France used
with the rats might be tried. Filling a hole with
loose cordite, and applying a fuse, they would
then stuff the entrance to the hole with sandbags.
The scorching flame when the cordite caught rushed
through the network of tunnels, and as the’ singed
and scared rats evacuated the sport commenced.
* * * *
“W.L.”: White Island, which vomits
steam and sulphur-fumes SO miles off the Bay of
Plenty shores, is not the only big safety-valve in
the thermal system of Maoriland. Karapiti Blow-
hole, near Wairakei, is another place where com-
pressed power gets out to stretch itself. From this
fissure roars unceasingly scalding, superheated steam,
at a pressure of 4001 b. to the square inch. The roar
resembles the sound of many liners “blowing off”
together, and, according to the Maoris, it has been
making this noise for hundreds of years. They re-
garded it as the voice of a god of wrath, and one
poor native whose child had died sat by the blow-
hole to listen to its tangi for her son. Presently the
god reached out and pulled her into the steam, and
as she died she cried “Karapiti! Karapiti!” mean-
ing that she was being crushed. That is the tale
the guide tells you when he takes you up the h 11-
side at night and burns kerosene flares to make
weird lights on the roaring steam, so that you may
be impressed through your eyes as well as your ears;
and you feel that the Devil himself is pretty near
at hand.
“FY7”: “J.R.A.” (B. 11/3/’2o)* asks
whence the quail suddenly appear. From the Arctic
circle and Northern Siberia, where they spend the
northern summer. Far from 100yds.' being the
limit of a quail’s flight, as “J.R.A.” asserts, the
bird is a champion long-distance traveller. Light
Horsemen in Sinai will remember the vast numbers
of quail arriving from Europe in the autumn of 1916,
and the elaborate netting apparatus for catching
them as they landed from their long flight which
we found in every Bedouin encampment.
* * * #
“A.P.D.”: “Torres Strait” mentions a
mixed marriage with numerous offspring, the later
children being much more like the (black) mother.
That is most unusual. In the early ’sixties an up-
standing young Jamaica negro married a fine white
girl who was fair-haired and blue-eyed. They lived
in a V ictorian town, where he worked as a shoe-
maker. There were 11 children. The older ones
were plain half-castes, but the later arrivals wei e
as black as the father. Here’s another lot. In ’B4
there lived on the north arm of the Clarence River
(N.S.W.) a typical German. He was very fair and
had light blue eyes. His wife was a full-blooded
negress. There were, I think, nine children, the
elder ones being plain half-caste, while the youngest,
a girl of three years, was fair-haired and blue-eyed,
w r ith a skin like milk. Incidentally, the mother’s
skin had turned to a handsome bronze.
**•*•»
Captain White, S. Australia’s ornitho-
logist, who has been taking a bird census at the
Yanco irrigation settlement for the N. S. Wales
Government, finds that the really destructive bird 3
are the imported ones, more especially the starlings,
which are a pest that will have to be abated. The
dry season has driven a lot of honey-eaters and other
native birds into the irrigated area, but White does
not reckon them as a menace. He has a good word
to say for the much-attacked cormorants, holding
that they are doing splendid work in the destruction
of yabbies. The herons, too, get a pat on the back
for the same reason. As to crows, White says that
they stand accused of eating peiches, but he does not
think they take much fruit, and, anyway, they have a
heap of insects on the credit side. Plenty of
Southern (N.S.W.) fruit-growers will, however, dis-
agree violently from the S. Australian in practically
acquitting the black devil. They accuse him of now
causing a shocking amount of waste in the garden.
DIPLOMACY AND THE MAILED FIST.
“ Don’t you call me a liar or I’ll hit yer!"
"Well, s'pose I thinks yer a liar."
"Oh, I ain't pot nothing to do with what yer THINLS."
“Forester”: Some of the snarers in the
Tasmanian back-country reckon that the wombat—
or badger, as he is called in those parts —is the kan-
garoo’s best friend. When snares are set in country
where the badger is common he is very apt to walk
into one as he rolls along, and then it is good-bye
to the snare, for his muscular strength is much
greater than that of the kangaroo, and he is apt to
break it or drag both snare and springer away. As
a result badgers are highly unpopular with the
snarers, who k.ll thousands of them every year, and
make practically no use of them. Some old hands
have a liking for badger-meat, which was a great
stand-by of the prospectors in the early days of the
West Coast; but it is too tough for most teeth when
there’s anything else about. The skins make good
mats, but there isn’t much demand for them.
* * * ,
“Country Ped”: The partnership between
birds and plants makes interesting nature study.
The trees shelter the birds and provide them with
food, while the birds repay their hosts by destroying
destructive insects. The gum-trees offer nectar to
honey-eaters, so that they will carry the pollen from
flower to flower for valuable cross-fertil'sation.
Looked at in this light it is not altogether an acci-
dent that the honey-eaters are the largest family
of Australian birds. The white-fronted heron (com-
monly known as the blue crane) feeds on small
fishes that gat seeds of water plants. The heron
dislikes seeds, so it ejects them, thus helping to
propagate new plants in distant streams. Other
wading birds that fly long distances carry seeds
stuck in the mud on their legs. Darwin once took
from the foot of a partridge, dead three years, a
ball of earth from which he grew 82 different plants.
The mistletoe plant, being a parasite, must have a
host—if its seeds fall to the ground they are use-
less. This seldom happens, as a little native called
the mistletoe-bird practically lives on the plant’s
sweet, sticky seeds, which, passing through the
body, adhere to the branch on which he is seated.
If there is one crack in the bark germination follows.
The partnership between imported pests is just as
striking. The red, juicy berries of the boxthorn are
a great attraction to sparrows, no less than the
harbor it affords for them and their nests. The
sparrow pays for his board and lodging by scattering
the hard seeds. Another example is the starling
and the blackberry, both of which are such a curse to
Gippslanders. The starling lives on nothing else
when blackberries are ripe, and does his best for
the plant by scattering its sqpds with a supply of
the best fertiliser wherever he goes.
* * * *
“Wessel": The birds of the Torres
Strait Islands are having a good overhaul. McLen-
nan, late of the A.1.F., who did a good deal of
collecting around the Gulf coast and elsewhere in
the North before the war, is up there for H. L.
White, of Scone (N.S.W.), and is raking the islands,
with a decided possibility of lighting on anew
species or two. As the islands right up to the
coast of Papua are included within the limits of
Queensland, having been annexed before we thought
THE CHESTNUT EXPERT.
Artist ( who has just had picture turned
down, poison on sly) : “ S’pose you can't
see the jolce?"
EDITOR : "No, sorry I can't now. I've worn
my eye out on it."
of taking over Papua, any new species that comes
to light there will be an addition to the Australian
list. If, for instance, a bird hitherto put down
as confined to Papua is found to range over some
of the islands, it will be a new species as far as
Australia is concerned.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE BROKEN MODEL.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
Moore was a goodly man who dwelt
Once in our little town,
And he had e’er a shiny pelt,
Was brushed so neatly down ;
He did his work with great, delight.
And ever toiled from morn till night,
And everything he did was right.
He never filled himself with beer,
And rocked home to provoke
A quarrel with his missus dear;
He did not swear or smoke;
He went to church on Sunday morn,
And neatly dressed and nicely shorn
The evening service did adorn.
He pushed the baby’s pram about.
He tilled the garden ground,
lie weekly cleaned the henhouse out,
And never made a sound ;
He never came home late to tea,
Nor carried mud indoors, for lie
Was just a grown-up prodigy.
He gave his wife on Friday eve
His wages to a brown,
And did rot seek to make believe
He’d mislaid half a crown.
Home from the city travelling,
Whatever she might need he’d bring,
And never once forgot a thing.
It was too much by far. The men
Of Edenville arose,
They seized upon this Moore, and then
They filled him with a hose;
His protestations loud and clear
Kemorseless villains would not hear—•
They simply flooded him with beer!
SOMETHING TO HOPE FOR.
MALTY : “Come on, them's only hadvertise-
ments. There's no news there."
HOPPY : “ Ain't there? 'Ere's somethin' about
a new beer."
They made his clothes unfit to see,
All muddied and awry,
And with some stuff indelibly
They blacked his dexter eye;
Then led him all tne street along,
A rascal screaming language strong,
And echoing their ribald song.
They took him to his home and there
The man was most profane—
Miscalled his wife, and pulled her hair,
And broke a window pane;
And when subjected to reproof
He scattered all his hard-earned oof,
And danced a breakdown on the roof.
It was ah evil deed, perhaps,
But none of them repent;
For now the wives of all the chaps
Who freezingly resent
Their conduct, may no longer bore
Their husbands, nagging o’er and o'er
The goodliness of Mister Moore—
And that is what they did it for.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.
“Bill Bowyang”: I’ve studied drawings
on ancient Egyptian tombs of a weapon which has
been claimed to be similar to Binghi’s boomerang,
but there is little resemblance. Probably the article
used by the Gyppos was fashioned after the trombash,
a favorite weapon amongst some Abyssinian tribes,
this latter has a slight likeness to the boomerang,
but when thrown it does not return in a circular
flight to tl»e thrower. A similar weapon is used by
Binghi in some parts of N.Q. To look at there is
only a small difference between it and the common
boomerang, but a peculiar twist make3 all the differ-
ence. The non-returning boomerang does not fly
far and high, but it allows of a surer aim, and was
therefore better adapted for warfare. 1 reckon w.e
can safely give Binghi the credit of being the inventor
of his best-known weapon.


“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS
At 1/- each (or 1/1 % posted)
ere the best value offering for readers of fiction.
Practically every Australian novelist of note is represented. The Series,
comprising over'lOO volumes, of which over 2,000,000 copies have already
actually been sold, caters for every taste.
HAVE YOU READ?
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ‘ROARING MEG’ ” - by Jack McLaren
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON” by Beatrice Grimshaw
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE” by Con Drew
“YELLOW SILVER” by Edward Meryon
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT” - by Ambrose Pratt
“DOUBLE-BED DIALOGUES” - - - by Henry James James
“BASE BRANDS” by H. M. Somer
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE” - by M. Forrest
“BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGINEER” -by Randolph Bedford
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” by Ralph Stock
“THE WHITE CHAMPION” by Don Delaney
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
EDWARD DYSON’S Humorous Novels.
STEELE RUDD’S Selection Stories.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Great Sporting Novels.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S Humorous Books.
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS
NEW COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF OVER 100 AUSTRALIAN
SHILLING NOVELS SENT FREE ON REQUEST.
“IRONBARK SPLINTERS,”
By G. Herbert Gibson (“Ironbark”).
A Splendid volume of bush and othev poems—including the widely-
known “My Mate Bill.”
“One of the most attractive shilling’s-worth on the market.” — The Bulletin.
PRICE I/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
X
co
TE
Trade Mark
a*
9<
S'
i
A
m
m
w*. V. '■ /
iV**'* '<v
MORE POWER!
HOW many motorists blame their
cars because they “eat up” petrol?
But how many realise that, in the
majority of cases, excessive consump-
tion of petrol is due to defective
lubrication?
Perfect lubrication means using an oil
which, while assuring lubrication to all
moving parts, maintains a complete seal
between piston rings and cylinder walls.
This prevents loss of power and waste of
fuel.
It is becoming a habit nowadays for motor-
ists to sav TEXACO when they want oil,
because TEXACO Motor Oil holds the seal.
For an all round reduct'on n running expense* of
motor car, truck or c r'e ask your garage for
TEXACO.
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) LTD.
SYrNFY MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. PER 7 H,
LAUNCESTON & HARRIS. SCAKFfc & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE.
TEXACO
MOTOR OILS
Petrol Greases. Industrial Lubricants, Marine Oils,
Kerosene, Roofing. Road Asphalt, etc,
The Smartest Dressers
Prefer Leviathan Tailoring
JShe
QOALITY
SPIT,
mi-
MADE TO MEASURE.
In guaranteed indigo-dyed
Navy Serge, or Australian
“ALL WOOL” Tweeds.
Full range of patterns on
application.
THE “QUALITY” SUIT
reveals the highest degree
of Leviathan excellence.
Special designing gives it
a distinctiveness. The
Materials have been care-
fully selected, and the work-
manship is of unusual
quality.
Write To-day for
Patterns, Home-
Measurement Chart
and Tape.
i
v '’V
siiSj
rx.
(
ORDER BY POST
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
T**
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEASE NOTE- WE HAVE NO BLANCHES.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE*
SIDED
3/-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/ I
0
10-inch
DOUBLE*
SIDED
3/-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/6)
Some Splendid 10-inch Double-sided
ALL BRITISH “REGAL” RECORDS.
3- each.
06927
GOO 13
G 6558
G 7004
G 7145
G 6714
G 0855
G 6938
G7IC7
G 7378
G7SBB
G 7403
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Haw son Place. >
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim I*ty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street. Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firth, Ro.vai Arcade.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.—Arthur H Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter. Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.-—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd. !
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


ROOFING TILES
Wunderlich Marseille Pattern Terra-Cotta Tiles.
The Artistic, Durable Roofing that maintains its normal standard of quality
under all climatic conditions.
Home-building there is no better roofing than the product of Wunderlich
lileries—the all-Australian-made Terra-Cotta Tiles.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: BAPTIST STREET, REDFERN, N.S.W. POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 474 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Currie SL,
ADELAIDE.
Lord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE,
Macquarie St..
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
“Bad Australian”: “Yarrum” (B
4/3/’2O) is unnecessarily alarmed about the wom-
bat. In the first place the animal is not a fast
breeder. His velocity in that respect is just about
on a par with, or possibly a point or two below,
that of the wallaby, the kangaroo or the native
bear. It is only the cocky on the very edge of
settlement who suffers from his depredations, and
as the raider is always located within a few hundred
yards of the scene of his destructive operations, it
is not a difficult matter for the injured party to
ascertain his address and clean him out. But the
average cocky prefers to multiply the damage to
his crop by 1000, and howl to the wide world to
help him fight the destroyer. If “Yarrum” is
located in an infested district let him cut out
poison, springers, dog-traps, fencing-wire nooses,
“Aggers o’ four” and such-like, and sink pit-traps
at intervals of, say, 500 yards, on his back boundary,
preferably at a hole in the fence where a pad
exists. The pit should measure about sft. x 2ft.
Oin. x sft., sunk so that one-half is inside the fence
and the other outside. It must then be slabbed, sides
and bottom, and a good stout batten nailed along
the top of the side slabs to act as a support for a
pair of trap-doors, each half the length of the pit
and balanced on wooden axles which fit into, slots
EASILY EXPLAINED.
FIRST CHOSEN ONE: “By -Poom staff.
but you are looking dirty!”
SECOND CHOSEN ONE: “Yes; but I’m older
than you are!”
made in the hattens to receive them. When the
trap-doors are in position a cleat should be nailed
over the ends of the axle to keep it in place when
the captive begins to shake things up. Each of
the trap-doors should have a batten nailed across
the landward end. The extra weight of the batten
swings the trap smartly back into its original posi-
tion when the animal falls into the pit or (a
hundred to one chance) springs clear, and leaves it
set ready for the next coiner. Many years ago I
cleared wombats from the hinterland immediately
adjoining my scrub selection by the use of pit-
traps judiciously located on the boundary of a patch
of green barley. As well as wombats I gathered
in enough wallabies, rabbits, native-cats, kangaroo-
rats, bandicoots, porcupines, jew-lizards, bears and
’possums to stock a dozen zoos. I also caught a
crow, two gohaiinas, and my neighbor Jimmy Ah
Quong’s “littee Chinee boy,” who fell in while
“wagging it” from his job of picking slugs off his
old man’s tobacco patch.
* ’ * * *
“Koonak”: The hoarding-house boss, hav-
ing discovered the missus canoodling with one of
the mob, was a bit annoyed. “Look here,” he com-
plained, “I don’t mind any of the old hands, but,
dammit, that ’s only been here three weeks.”
“The Lark" : Was at a funeral at a North-
era township recently. After the burial-service,
and ' vb ’* e the grave was being filled, my attention
,vas drawn a Pc rson "ith pencil and paper in
hand interrogating all and sundry. Curiosity drew
me to him just in time to hear the bereaved wife
politely decline to take a chance in a raffle for a
concertina!
GIVING HIS BOY A CHANCE.
FRIENDLY VISITOR (to old identity) : “I sup-
pose you get the old age pension?"
OLD IDENTITY : ‘'No, I don't get it myself;
hut my Willie does."
"Jim Carew”: Who is the real hero of
“Banjo” Paterson’s “Man from Snowy River” ? At
the recent funeral of the late John Crisp', near Cooma,
there was a great gathering of old Monaro men, and
I brought the subject up. There was an immediate
argument, and 30 of them were prepared to swear
that George Hedger, now nearly 80, is the man.
According to the majority of the Monaroites,
Hedger’s famous ride took place on a station belong-
ing to the late Amos Crisp, one of the earliest
. Monaro squatters.
* *..■■* *
“Memsahib”: The staple article of food
for all stock in the sugar districts of Fiji is “chop-
chop” (the green tops of the sugar-cane, mixed with
molasses). Horses, mules and cattle thrive on it.
A peculiar Fiji plant used as fodder is known as
vi-vi. It is apparently a mimosa, and grows in
dense profusion in some parts of the group. Accord-
ing to some settlers the vegetable makes good food
for cattle, but other experimenters say that it de-
creases the milk yield of cows. I know this: if a
horse eats it he promptly sheds his mane and tail,
and goes round for a long time looking like a wooden
steed that has had an argument with a small, boy.
* * * *
“Two Seas” : A curious result of the heavy
rains following. the long drought in the mid-south
of N. S. Wales is that most of the apple orchards
are in bloom and carrying a heavy crop at the
same time. This will mean a light crop next season.
To the long list of pests which the orchavdist have
to light may be added the wily crow, who has
added apples and pears to his menu. It’s not so
much the quantity the brute eats as the number of
crowfalls his clumsy beak leaves strewn around.
* * # *
“Brumby”: Octopus is better eating than
squid, and that’s good, one inviting detail being
the white purity of the flesh. In the case of both
fish the tentacles are regarded as the special titbits.
In preparing octopus for the pan it is customary
among epicures to throw the shuddersome bundle
hard against a table or stone slab several times,
which is supposed to have the same effect on the
fish as the housewife’s rolling pin on the beef-steak.
Some years ago at a dinner of the Amateur Fisher-
men’s' Association of N. S. Wales fried squid
appeared on the menu, and was very popular. Then
octopus was served, and that received equal applause.
* * » *
“Gleuiris” : “Now, children,” asked teacher,
at the new r Sabbath-school inaugurated tfy the
Methodists at Pingpong Gully, “can any of you tell
me the author of ‘The Pilgrim’s Progress’ ?” Silence
for a minute. Then, “John ” began Willie
Brown and stopped. “Yes Willie? John John
Bun ” “Yairs, John Bunyip,” said Willie.
“Languid Lou”: Why do I laugh when
a smiling sky becomes of a sudden stern, and
clouds pack close at a racing pace that tells of an
overturn? Why do I let my face slip back when
thunder loudly booms and cleansing drops to the
dusty earth descend like a thousand brooms? Why
do I grin as I urge my steed in a line for my far-
out nest? I am a big man’s bound’ry hand, and
rain to me means rest.
“Otira” : The high ridge overshadowing the
back doors of the town of Whakatane (M.L.) was
the scene 100 years ago of as tragic a romance as
the world ever knew. A line of fighting pas marked
the skyline of the ridge and that on Puketapu, the
boldest peak of all, was held by Te Rangitaka, an
old chief who had married a young princess, Kapua,
sometimes spoken of as Helen of Whakatane. Her
remarkable beauty had won
the soul of Te Whakapina,
a gay and handsome war-
rior, and they met in
secret. At last Whaka-
pina Kapua planned
to leave the old chief in
his lofty pa. But the old
chief got word of it, and
when Whakapina came up
the cliff one night he
found only a small open-
ing left in the stockade.
He pushed in boldly, and
an affair like a cowbail
closed on his neck and
strangled him. The old
chief said nothing till the
women found the body
and began their wailing.
Then he sent word to the
youth’s father that his son
had been trapped like a
common thief. The father
came across from his pa
on the next ridge, full of
sorrow and rage. But the
women told him the truth
and he ..spoke these words
to his dead son: “Son,
O my son! Your ancestors
ever hejd that there were
only two things a man
should give his life for—■
land and women. Noble
son of a noble sire—fare
thee well!” The story ends
here, Without mentioning
Kapua any more; but the
Maoris of the coast vlill tell you that their present
chief, Hurunui, is a direct descendant of Te Whaka-
pina.
**•» ■ ■ *
“FY7”: “Ida D.’s” talk about strange
nesting-places of birds recalls that just after a Rugby
Union match on the old Union ground at Bowen
Bridge, Brisbane, in 1899, a lark’s nest with the
eggs intact was discovered in the middle of the
25 yards’ line. Thirty players had raged all around
it for 90 minutes and no harm was done.
“D. J.”; I am on the border of insanity.
There is a colony of cockroaches in my house. Or
it may be a million colonies. I kill them off nightly
before retiring, by pouring hot water on them.
Thfeir end is swift. It is Heaven for a short period
whpn, lo (also behold), the colony is again fully
inhabited. A neighbor declares that scalding is a
sure egg-hatcher. Can anyone help me?
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: “Dolphin” asks(B. 26/2/’2O)
where swifts go in summer. I’ve carefully watched
this wonderful migrant in Queensland and Victoria.
In the former State the birds generally arrive in
October and keep on re-appearing-
throughout the summer, clearing out
for the top of the world late in
March. Here in South-West Vic.
swifts seldom come before the middle
of January, and return off-and-on until
March. Now, I've noticed that the
birds often appear before rain; mor
often still before a change in the
weather with or without rain; and
lastly, almost invariably with a fall
ing or “low” barometer. You can
bet your rabbit-skin hat that tin
birds are not flying aimlessly for
fun, but with a set purpose of food.
This in the form of insect life, is
most abundant before rain, or in th--
elose, unsettled hours preceding a
summer weather change. So m.v
theory (and it is supported by notes
kept here and in Bananaland) is that
swifts spend the summer months fol-
lowing round the cyclonic and mon-
soonal depressions (low barometer
areas) in search of tucker. “Dol-
phin’s” statement that the birds in
Tasmania appear in spring and
autumn bears out my theory; for
there are fewer “low” pressure areas
in the Speck in summer than earlier
and later in the year. If birdologists
in various parts of the Commonwealth will
watch how their barometer movements synchronise
with the flight of swifts, we may settle in a couple
of seasons the knotty problem of the migrants’ flight.
“Pongo”: This is how Bert Williams
knocked down about U acre of bean, beef wood,
maiden s-blush apple and other scrub timber aver-
aging about din. diameter on his holding at Speck-
ett’s Creek, Bellinger River (N.S.W.), in 1912. After
the brush had been thinned a bit—it was so thick
that you had to clear a space before a dog could
bark in it—Williams made a start nicking the hacks
of the timber. This occupied most of the day. Then,
selecting a giant bean, he lopped him off about
10ft. up and dropped him into the scrubwood, which
went down like a house of cards.. I’ve heard of big
drives being made at Hutchison’s, further up the
creek; but Williams’s record of 11 acre off his
own hat in about 12 hours will take ‘ some erasing.
“Otira”: It was a very muddy road. The
coach wheels churned and splashed, and the coach
lurched along. “Pretty bad here in winter?” a
passenger said. “Yes,” the driver agreed. “One
day I’m cornin’ along here when I see a pipe
stickin’ in the mud. ‘Hullo,’ I sez, ‘here’s old
Tom the roadman been and lost his pipe.’. So I
stop and go to pick it up, when, damme, I hear
Tom’s voice below say, ■ ‘For God’s sake don’t take
me pipe; it’s all I got to breathe through.’ "
* * * *
“Spuds”: So “Bright’s” crows (B.
25/3/’2O) bore a hole in the end of eggs and carry
them off that way! Perhaps he’d like to improve
bis breed of crow and cross them with our armor-
piercing variety. Then he could teach them to sink
post-holes. Up our way. the black robbers think
nothing of carrying off china eggs as well. On
numerous occasions I’ve seen them drop their cargo
in disgust aicet flying over 100 yards with it. Of
course they may bore holes in the end of them
but somehow I think “Bright” had better guess
again.
* * * »
“Te Whare”: The bunya-pine is an un-
healthy tree to stand under. One, about 70ft. in
height, growing near my abode, dropped five large
cones recently, each as big as a man’s head, verv
solid, and weighing each about 201 b. On another
occasion a huge bunya-cone crashed through the roof
Of G'oomerang, T. S. Mort’s old home at Bodalla,
while another fell on and severely injured a dog!
There is a case, too, where the Government had
to pay compensation to a man injured by the cone
from a bunya growing in a park near Brisbane.
Brother Binghi ate the seeds from bunya-cones after
roasting them on the coals, and the white man
has tried them boiled and served with melted butter
They are fairly nutritious, but somewhat “piny” in
flavor.
*'* * *
“Werrimee”: There is a grave in a patch
of scrub by the coach-road between Beni and Dubbo
(N.S.W.) which our driver called “The Dead Secret.”
Years ago a prospector meandered into Dubbo with
some remarkable specimens of gold, had a good time
and slipped away again. What happened after that
is a mystery, except for the fact that the prospector
was found dead on the track and was buried at
the edge of the/scrub. There are old hands still
trying to determine in tvhut direction he was going
and . how far he had to go to his find when death
came upon him. That’s the dead secret.
* * * *
“South Coaster”: Found in a small stream
debouching from a freshwater swamp a number
of small crustaceans, prawn-like in form, but marked
and dotted with brown. Were .these the school -
prawn in immaturity or a species of shrimp? I
believe the school prawn breeds in fresh water, and
I have rooted him out of the sands of a coastal
river at a point beyond the extreme tidal limits.
In company with the prawnlets aforesaid were min-
nows (the “Sydney” minnow )t in plenty,, and tad-
poles ready and anxious to drop their tails and
blossom into frogs. It is remarkable, by the way,
that the immature crab has a tail like a lobster; but
at maturity most of it shrivels up, and what remains
he tucks under his carapace as if he were ashamed
of it.
THE VOLUBLE CORNISH MAN.
COUSIN JACK : “Plaaze, Billy, would ’er
mind tendin' me thy axe to saw some
timber for to put up a bit av a loul-
house for to kape a pig in?”
■‘D.F.”: Up till the present the wallaby
and the ringtail ’possum have had no protection
in the Speck. It used not to matter much, for their
skins were of so little value, especially in the case
of the ringtail, that they were not persecuted. Of
late, however, both have been well worth going
after, and they have been getting it in the neck.
The law has now brought them into line with
kangaroos and the other species of ’possum, and
they are protected for nine months of the year,
the open season being May, June and July.
AS FUR AS I KNOW.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
I’m fur as I know hitched fur good
To fix the yard and chop the wood,
And go to work the whole year through,
And bring the missus ’ome my screw,
And do what ’usbands ought to do—
As fur as I know.
hast night I put the soft word on ;
At least, some’ow the thing was done.
Me fixed it up together—we
Will share our lot (what that may be).
She may ’ave put it up to me,
As fur as I know.
I think I’m set; though yesterday
It might ’ave been ’er sister May
That kept me constant calling there,
Jest sitting on an edge of chair;
For both of ’em was pretty fair,
As fur as I know.
Well, if it’s Ethel I don’t mind;
As fur as I know, she’s the kind
To ’and a bloke out decent grub,
An’ do the needful at the tub,
An’, pay-days, haul him off the pub,
As fur as I know.
There’s nothing wrong about ’er face;
’Er limbs is shaped in perfect grace,
As fur as I know. As it seems
I am the bloke to fit ’er dreams,
I’ll meet ’er matrimonial schemes,
As fur as I know.
s'.s.w.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


ilfS
m
tm
: m
m
is
&st
:4?x
mm
8
m
J K -
; v
■:• v.
?■«
m.
m
■' • .£
m
m
M
m
m
m
m
:■¥■
fg
m
m
iff
■'*
mm*
Off a; •?,*• ••:»•*>• fr>*£»px«Mi
m
mm
■
m
-• * ;
ii
mm
V s ;;??'
;'"t' ' "i -?]
fife
■
IHBS
m
m .
mk
s
wm
®ff
-
?fSa I
14
4*
I ■ i
mi
-
•' * ' - 1 "Vv *
fefe
1 I%'
MfessStet
isnfei
si
1, V
ii
* 3si
m,
V fe
fell
Wbti?
ms
v"
f..*
M
■ ■
*-y? 4§
*■? 3
m
m
i - <-- $
■.,,.,. .•
m
m
*;',^,-^' ; ?®4-'- :, ‘''"'; ■•',-• i; •■ -IS"'
.' ■ • >.'-;• ■-» ■ . . . -
i ‘ ; viAil i ;,i i.
Iffe- ;-M •■■ y r\
- •’•... ' ' - ;.' : .'■' :.'
X M::
.< . r**S*
' **
•*. v(.«?V>Srf-; j'X. I' izffl
1
i, f ..... .!.. b
M
4' *'4S?v '- / >-'''
‘•: 4:
lifl
,y #.
0
'
.
V
.■ '-.
„
..
’
/
■w-iXt .' f>
’■ .-; sC‘ -..-;r
P-&;
M#l
: v ■) ■
l ?V'.n'-/ :>• -.jl ‘.. ■
: , '?:
■ •* - 5....«
v ■*■ ' •/,„ . . i V-V vf. » • V' T .- -
'• •• •• - •'. - ".•: •. • *. '• ’f* •-.
..,. . ,->• •'.■ <• •
•.,. -.•■•■■•: ! ’-V> v-.v^::. '•
if -:. -::SafS:s@4iSiS'":--;
'
r-y» ■iii-fWiU
~, . .i ; ■■•■
~ ,;,* .-.:■-■■•o/ ,; . ;.;.;... ‘A'-'
■' ~ 1 :f .. .V /
..
■“. V
BBT r ,'4, : V-' \ ‘ . :. .
■ ’ , ' ■•'■'• '■» . . ■
;
- • ■ ■•..'/■ ■
••■ : VI :1> ■; ■■•'•: ■ ::. -- ’■•;%•
|tf ' * . • v s' "'* f ’ ‘ . ,Vx£'l- 5
. . ■ ■■ ’ . ■ .. ■
V>3
■ ’• >
: w
'- V i©
’ f A
-.-: ' ■:". ' ; ’
- ■ . .
■
'
M
mk
*&■**
■
ms.
m
Ss
Hi!
m
S»s
.. • V s i
~ a.
v?
'
mm
1 v
■
:
:•
’
s .
I
H
y*s
m
-.
w&! '■*;£:
M&r)y and varied are the incidents that can he crammed into
a motor outing. A joyous happy day free of engine and tyre
worries sees the home trip tinged with regrets that the outing
has been all too short. A charming and restful experience is
driving home in the moonlight; for picturesque views gather
further beauties under the witchery of the silver rays or an
unclouded moon, whilst even commonplace surroundings
take on a mystic charm'which is absent when the same route
is motored over under the glare of the summer sun. Hills
seem to lose their steepness—roads smoothen out—arid the
engine gives of its best in the cool night air. it s motoring at
its best. But what of the “dud day, when tyre troubles have
marred the pleasure of the outing. That’s the time when you
appreciate tyre dependability* for undoubtedly its one of the
deciding factors in pleasurable and profitable motoring. 1 his
is where the consistent user of Australian-made
Ca
scores, for their quality and strength is such that they run
many thousands of miles without trouble, in fact with hardly
a mark or sign of wear. Their reliability is, as
their great service and . economical running. Without donut
they offer you the opportunity of getting the best out of motor-
ing, and it pays to always use them. All Agents can supply
in Grooved and Railroad. List on request.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES WD n ?.


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 BonJ Street,
SYDNEY.
i
,' '
I h,..5._
-S§§s
CvL
COUCHS
COLDS
V
CROUP
LUNG
iftouma
CME3T
affections
V 3
than the Papacy is, for it had no army, navy,
police or defined legislative power, and it didn’t
profess even to prevent its members fighting among
themselves. As the Greeks would no more leave
off fighting than gamecocks would, the chances are
that the Amphictyonic League of Parishes, if it
had attempted to keep the peace, would have got
one in - the eye at its first attempt, and Delphi
would have been knocked out.
(2) The Achaian and Etolian Leagues, also of
Greece, covered an area equal perhaps to a thud of
Tasmania. They were business-like affairs each with
a Government and an army and navy. But they
were born too late, when Greece was tired; they
led a troubled existence for about a century under
the shadow of Rome, and parsed away about
146 b.c.
(3) The Holy Alliance, founded about 1961 years
later, which is a long jump. It was devised by
Alexander I. of Russia, who was a good man with-
out being a prig and a big man without being
great. Philanthropy, Christianity and high think-
ing being in advance of the times, Alexander was
regarded as a polite lunatic, but many Governments
joined the Holy Alliance out of civility. It had
no central power or legislature or army or Cabinet,
and was simply a pious aspiration. It died at no
time in particular.
After that scaiity list of Leagues that Really
Existed comes u specimen by itself—the
League that Almost Happened. It was the
device of Henry IV. of France, at that
moment the greatest Sovereign on earth and
probably the greatest statesman. Also he
ranked high as a soldier. His plan for the
subdivision and federation of Europe was
not unlike that now supposed to be in force.
A twopenny assassin ended his life before
the Experiment could start.
The rest of the book is devoted to Leagues
put on paper by philosophers but never
attempted—the schemes of Dante.; Rousseau,
Bentham and others. But, strangely enough,
the two Leagues that stand out most pro-
minently in history are omitted. They were:
(1) The Hanseatic League, which began about
1140 and lasted 500 years. At its prime it was
a combine of 110 small States. It was an importer,
exporter, shipowner, carrier, dealer in everything
under the sun, supplier of armies and navies for a
consideration (it furnished the bulk of Philip ll.’s
Armada) , money-lender, pawnbroker, monopolist,
diplomatist, maker and deposer of kings after a
stealthy fashion, and the most generally useful of
corporations. It had no principles -and no high
ideals. The Thirty Years War broke it.
(2) The Six Nations (Iroquois), which joined
together at a date unknown. Their business was
in Canada and the U.S., and lay mostly in burn-
ing, torturing and scalp-hunting. It was said that
at no other time in history did so small a force
terrorise so large a country and do it for so long.
It seems to have been the only important League of
Nations that was never rent by internal dissension
and in which secession was unknown. The white
men broke it with mighty labor, but it was unani-
mous even in death.
The moral is that the Leagues with the
worst intentions in the way of greed and
cruelty last long, while Holy Alliances are
still-born. (The Swarthmore Press, Lon-
don.)
Unde Sam Gilds the Temple
The United States is the land which pro-
duced the bible of Mormon and tne Zion
Temple of Dowie and which accepts Billy
Sunday, the evangelist who desenoeu Au i-
ham as sitting at his roll-top desk in his
office surrounded by clerks when the divine
call reached him. Its religions are built on
a big scale like its meat factories, and they
boom in good seasons just like the Stock
Exchange, it is natural that they should
boom just now owing to the rate of exchange,
so a new religionist, one Gloucester, has
been raising a dust in New York about old
Zion in Jerusalem and gilding it thicker
than it was ever gilded before. Some
extracts from the account of Solomon’s great
church:—
'there were 140,000 vessels made of gold and
1,340,000 of silver; lo.uOO vestments ior me
priests made of silk with purple girdles, and
2,000,000 of purple girdles for tne singers. There
were also 200,000 trumpets and 40,000 other musi-
cal instruments made use of in the Temple.
According to the most accurate computation of
the number of talents of gold, silver and brass laid
out upon the temple, the sum amounts to
£6,904,£22,500, and the jewels are reckoned to
exceed that sum. The gold vessels are estimated
at £ 0*45,296,203 45., and the silver ones at
£439,344,000... .The treasure leit by David towards
carrying on this noGe and glorious work is
reckoned to be £9'1,416,207, to which, if we
add King Solomon's annual revenue, his trading to
Ophir for gold ar.j the presents made him by all
the earth as mentioned in I. Kings X, 24-25....
Even in the present spacious financial days
a king who took money out of circulation in
that Joyous fashion would wreck the world,
for ±0,904,822,500 couldn’t be withdrawn
from daily use with impunity even now
when banking, exchange operations and
the issue of notes and public securities help
the public to scrape along without coin. And
there is a touch of the grotesque about the
picture of the people of Chicago, necessarily
included with “all the earth,” bring ng pre-
sents (presumably of pork) to Solomon,
who was really not such a remote indi-
vidual—a little earlier than the first naval
war in Greece and the founding of Con-
stantinople (then Byzantium) and Rome,
and considerably later than the beginning
of the Greek cities in Asia Minor. Viewed
separately, Solomon was so far back that
anything might have happened in his time.
Viewed alongside his contemporaries he was
semi-modern and couldn’t have spent
£6,904,822 500 and at least £7,000,000,000
in jewellery without arousing attention at
Corinth and other business cities.
The religiosity of the Yankee breaks out
in strange places, and bis is almost the only
market for literature like this. His resolve
to be ahead of the race even in piety leads
him to put a few billions more gold on Solo-
mon’s temple than any other people, and
he will raise his b : d if necessary. His atti-
tude is that no goldarned fane that he has
a voice in will run the risk of being out-
shone by Any structure. It was quite a
humble meeting-house 120 years ago when
the Washington generation was poor, but as
the republic grew rich it contributed on
paper out of its riches to bedizen the edifice
which ended a brief tempestuous career
about 557 b.c. The dollars of the U.S.A.
mind have been spent on it—at least ten
thousand million dollars have been added to
its value since the war as a sign of thank-
fulness and a proof that there is nothing
mean about Uncle Sam; also as his bit
towards the cost of policing the sacred lands
under the league of Nations. So now the
Temple, when viewed along the corr.dor of
back-stretching years, is indeed some pump-
kins.
And meanwhile the people who hold
Jerusalem have been sinking a trial shaft
to inspect drainage poss.bilifies and report
that the layers of refuse and germs suggest
that the site hadn’t had a spring cleaning
since before history. Apparently the Temple
was built on debris.
J. E.
You Don’t Know Vendome?
The new edition of The Works of Chris-
topher Vendome (Barnstaple, London)
reminds us how ephemeral a great reputa-
tion can be. No writer since Snakspeare
enjoyed such fame during his own lifetime
and very few were so completely ignored
before the century in which they lived came
to u close. let \ enuuioe s pass ng g.eat-
ness was not a mere popularity with the mob
—the mob in his days could barely read and
certainly could have made little enough of
Vendome —for Buckingham, Dryden and
Waller all speak of ms woiks in a way tuat
seems almost fulsome, and there was a
story current in Dr. Johnson’s day that even
Milton jo ned in the chorus of appreciation.
But the literary fashion changed so rapidly,
or the glamor which his verse had thrown
over English readers faded so fast, that
Johnson did not include him in his “Lives
of the I‘oets,” althougu he gave a place in
that strange gallery to most of “the mob
of gentlemen who wrote with ease.” Look-
ing at this new edition, it would seem
that time had dealt too hardly with
Vendome. It is true that an age which
appreciated Pope could hnrdlv be expected
to value or understand Ihim, but he
did to to great an extent antedate the
work of the Lake poets that it is little less
than astounding that Coleridge, whose dic-
tum gave their assured place;) to Shakspeare
and Milton, had nothing but a. sneer for
Vendome. “As insincere as Vendome” is
Coleridge’s only reference; and this of the
man of whom Charles 11. said that he had
made the Restoration worth while, in that
it gave his genius an opportunity to shine.
Probably Charles wasn’t the best of critics,
but the very extravagance of the remark
shows the impression Vendome had made
on all around him.
Included in this volume are many verses
which are at least as good as some that
have been preserved with reverent care.
Thus lie makes the first William say:—
England is not a nation but a dream,
A dream confused with many ifs and doubts;
But I will take and set it to the gleam
Of all that I have hoped. Pageants and routs,
Strong castles and great abbeys and high names,
lor me new picture these are but the tranrn.
Again in the “Address of Certain Ladies”
occur the lines:—
Good sooth with such an idle head
’Twere woe for honest man to wed.
Though she be fair as blooms in May,
Her talk doth make my spirit er^y;
For that her tongue is never still
My humor may not match my will;
And nought I do in any style
Who hate her talk, yet love her smile.
Then there is the once-famous “Ode to
Thamesa,” where the barges
Glide by the bridge when April’s hand
Hath sewn the banks on either strand
With thread of such a silken green
As on Titania’s bobbins seen
Loth tell ih< pop- vi c b< ’.i rd peeking
Of merry days and nights in keeping.
There is a statelier movement in “Electra”:
The solemn smoke blows up the darkened sky
lull oi strange resin. Hots tne pine burn bo?
Whf •’ lime aid laur'd into ashes die,
Is there such sweetness in their burning woe?
But surely there is a real tenderness in this:
He is the child of a king
In a golden bed;
Let the old nurse bend and sing
By his drowsy head.
He cannot join in the play
In the grassy street.
For the crown he will wear some day
L rri< s b rl„ and i r
But the old nurse will sing
Songs the knaves keep,
'1 . ti < so of a gn ..t king
May find a knave’s sleep.
Vendome was something of a phrase-maker.
He tells of the “wilted wonder that became
a prayer,” of the “silly chestnuts” whose
taste “plays traitor to their smell.” of the
“clothes-prop heroes holding by a spur” to
horses that “must walk lest they should
fall.” London is the “green casket of un-
washed and dangerous tilings”; the king is
“oak-guarded Charles” (a reference to the
tree-climbing episode by which he escaped
after Worcester) ; poetry is “lamp music
glowing ever town v d« the stars”; Puritan sm
is “the pride of having close a private god.”
Vendome had a good time while he lived ;
and perhaps his complete neglect in the
years that followed was no worse than the
partial neglect into which even great John
Dryden has now fallen. He was twice mar-
ried, and one or his direct descendants repre-
sented Colchester in Parliament in the time
of Chatham. He seems to have missed West-
minster Abbey by a short head, for his
grave is in the old churchyard at Stoke-on-
L'tbv and a brass plbt« m the church itself
states that be was a “renowned poet.” So
he was! But in his own phrase, “Death
maketh fame a darkness.” The twentieth
century is hardly Pkely to reverse the judg-
ment of the eighteenth; but the new volume
of his work has a faint interest for the
student.
A Satchel of Books
Our New Possession, by J. Ling (Mel-
bourne Publishing Co., Melbourne). A
handy volume with an account of the most
important of the late German possessions
in the Pacific. The author, who is a cap-
tain, late of the A.1.F.. once held a com-
mission in the Danish Army and later in
the Commonw'ealth Forces. At the outbreak
of war he volunteered for service; and his
capab ; litieg as a linguist we’-p taken adjut-
age of, first by Admiral Patey and after-
wards in connection with the occupation
of enemy territory in the Pacific. He writes
clearly and from first-hand knowledge of
the native peoples of German New Guinea
and the Solomons, their relations with the
Germans, and the nature of the islands and
their resources; and he has carefully linked
up the present with the past in a brief his-
torical survey. Whether the writer is more
generous than just in some of his references
to the Germans, whether he views the natives
fairly or judges them too much from the
white man s angle—these and many other
questions raised by the book must be matters
of opinion ; but there can be only one judg-
ment about the information supplied. The
very conciseness of the matter suggests
accuracy. A useful book which every Aus-
tralian should read with interest.
The Dardanelles, by Major-General Sir
C. B. Callwell (Constable, London). This
book, which belongs to a “Campaigns and
their Lessons” series, is a full military
account of the attempt to capture the
Gallipoli peninsula. Nothing of the poetry
of the struggle, little of the heroism of the
soldiers, and scarcely a hint of real battle-
color finds its way into the pages. An
attempt is made to answer a great many
questions, and the work may have a high
value in military colleges; but it neither
makes nor pretends to make any contribution
to literature. There are several maps of the
battle-grounds of the peninsula; and the
Australian reader may be a little surprised
to discover how many British troops were
there in addition to our own. Anzacs will
also find a far-off interest in reading the
orders given by generals and comparing them
with their own experiences.
Candles in Sunshine, by J. M. Stuart-Ypung
(Stockwell, Lonuon). This is a volume of
verse chosen and edited by Charles Kains-
Jackson, so hyphens are thick about the
title page. Still, the contents are not very
injurious, though the editor —possibly he had
to earn his fee—has appended weird bits of
comment. Here are some f.a.q. verses,
“Waiting”:
Ivory dawn and crimson noon,
Srltry purple afternoon,
Primrose eve and twilight grey—
I have waited all the day!
When the shadowy moon is high
In an amaranthine sky,
Visions fairtly round me gleam,
And I wait as in a dream.
There are 324 pages quite as rich hnd full:
and sometirhes the editor almost reaches
triumphant idiocy in his hard-working
comment.
The Inky Way
Birge Harrison is an American painter
of note and the author of a work on land-
scape painting which is used as a text-book
in most of the States. An Australian friend
sent him a copy of “The Hilder Biok” as a
Christmas present; and last week he got
this in acknowledgment r
I was surprised and delighted to find in my
Christmas mail this morning the beautiful Hilder
book. I have had time as yet only to look over
the reproductions, in company with two or three
artist friends, and our verdict was one of
unanimous and quite enthusiastic praise and admira-
tion. None of us had any idea that Australia had
developed a painter of such talent and distinction,
or ore who had such a wonderful control of the
mediums in which he works. I have never seen
water-color handled so exquisitely, and I have rarely
seen renroductions in color so successful as these.
They have the completeness of fin'shed works of
art, together with a sr>o"t»roitv wh’ch we usually
associate only with a rapid sketch from nature.
London publishers, who have been content
to keen afloat of late years, are again show-
ing signs of enterprise. Hcdder and Stough-
ton have sent G. K. Chesterton to Palestine
to write a book about it.
The Argus has a new recruit in W. R.
Brownbill, who has spent nine out of the
past 13 years on the ’Tiseb of Geelong.
Brownhill employed the other four in trying
to get an interview with the Kaiser.
“Wessel”: The Northern Territory has
one newspaper to 523.000 square miles, the
Territory Times, which comes out nearly
every Saturday. In fact, it is the only
journal on the northern side of Australia
from Thursday Island, with its Pilot, to
Broome (if they now have a paper at
Broome) on the west, and to the southward
there isn’t a printed sheet appearing within
1000 miles. While the Times runs a good
deal to scissors and paste, it still makes a
very fair attempt at giving the local news;
particularly if there’s a deportation on.
THE SHREW.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
I’ve taken one into my home,
And have enthroned her there.
She faithful is, and will- not roam ;
She holds me in her care.
She holds me with a tyrant hand,
I yield unto her will;
And soft the grass grows on the strand,
The light sits on the hill,
And swift the cloud rides o’er the lea;
But I may not go forth to see.
She’s tall and strong, her brow is white,
And cruel her grey eye;
She holds me down by day and night,
And swift my fingers ply.
But should I venture to the door
To look upon the sun,
She fiercely calls me back once more
To work that’s never done,
And bitter is her tongue ahvay
If I should pause to dream of play.
One time her hands aside I flung,
And lay where rivers drowse,
And saw the crimson birds that hung
Like jewels in the boughs,
Where lithe girl children leapt along
The sward in tuneful game;
But came she searching in the throng
To fill my heart with shame,
With dog and whip to nag and scold,
And once more herd me in the fold.
At length I am her ironed slave,
And in the pool of ink
My soul subservient I lave,
And in the gas-lamp’s blink
I sun piysclf, for ever she
Is brooding at the door,
And turns to gibe and spit at me
Should I respite implore.
The fiercest of the tribe of shrews
He has who’s mated with a Muse.
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY
Not your Money
but your Good-will.
We want the good-will of every car
owner in this town.
We want everyone to say what dots of
folks say now—‘Willard ? That’s where
you get a square deal and value for every
dollar.”
We’d rather have your good-will than
an extra dollar or two on a repair job.
We’d rather sell you a battery that will
give longer and better service than to make
a living by repairing batteries.
Of course good repair work and good
batteries cost more, but we believe they
make friends and buy good-will.
.Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
STORAGE
BATTERY
%
A-
-0
%
v
%


Rabbit,
FOX, KANGAROO,
WALLABY and other
skins are not worth
their Aveight in gold.
But they are bring-
ing remarkable prices.
For top market
values consign to —
ar
WINCH COMBE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane, ltd.
SALESMEN ONLY.
WRITE FOR LABELS, etc., FREE.
Give The Skin
New Life
WHEN you first
observe your com-
plexion beginning to lose
its youthful freshness
don’t neglect it. A little
care each day will keep
you youthful for years.
Try this simple formula—
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very-
little Elcaya rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
oowder over all.”
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Klcaya Face Powder, 4/0-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/6-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct front
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CrEmeElcaya
Dunn**—
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
P/IRIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
GET THE GENUINE
PARIS GARTERS
EVERY TIME YOU BUY.
Imitations at any price cost you too
much.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers., A. Stem Company, cnicago.
anSiupMiiA'N
mm
BRAND
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
A-Z.
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BHAS
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES— Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers' Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Btreet, Melbourne.
Svdnev Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES, 63 Brookman Buildings,
Contentment!
There’s genuine satis-
faction in the possession
of a G.B.D. Pipe,
because it materialises
your ideal of ‘‘The
Smoke Delightful.”
Decide for a
ft
fgh
—the perfect pipe.
Many shapes. Sold everywhere.
fg
HEaItH
otJ.C@fffs Brotlnej;
CMoratee
The Original and Only Genuine.
Til E KEST .MEDICINE I'OR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and iu the Cough of KKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, lli, SI-, 51-.
Made in England.
hf
MOTOR
LUBRICANTS
Cut the Cost.
One pound of Foliac
Cup Grease will go
as far as three
to eight pounds of
high-grade mineral
grease alone.
~r- ■
ft**
r
UjTei
form on all friction surfaces a film of
Graphite, giving a degree of smoothness
which is the nearest possible approach to
perfection. Its presence on your gears or
bearing surfaces results in an immediate
economy in wear from friction, in the longer
life of the lubricant itself, and the cool,
sweet running of the parts so lubricated.
Foliac Motor Graphite.
Foliac Gear Grease.
Foliac Heat-Proof Grease.
Foliac Motor-cup Grease.
Foliac Motor-joint Compound.
In tins from lib. to 281 b. Kegs, 561 b. and
1121 b. Get particulars from your garage.
Sole Distributors for Australia:—
S. SMITH & SONS (MA.) LTD
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY;
and 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
Business, Robbery, etc.
One Melbourne man has discovered a way
of getting a high price for his goods with-
out laying himself open to a charge of profit-
eering. Having become possessed of a num-
ber of bricks that he had no immediate use
for, he notified builders of a sale by auction.
The goods cost him £3 ss. a thousand, and
builders are so hard-pressed that he sold the
lot at from £4 to £5 12s. 6d. It was fair
trading. The buyers nxed their own prices.
* * # *
After years of delay, British woollen
manufacturers, scenting tariff troubles from
afar, are to establish mills in the Speck.
Ivelsall and lvemp, Ltd., of Rochdale,
about the biggest makers of flannel in
the U.K., made up their minds to go
into the business before the war, and in
1914 they took an option over the site of
the old female prisoners’ factory at the Cas-
cades, Hobart. The war knocked that out,
but now they have formed a new company,
with a paid-up capital of £lOO,OOO for a
start, and are to begin right away in Laun-
ceston. The buildings will cost about
£30,000.
* * * •
“R.S.V.P.”: How much ginger does Aus-
tralia produce, if any ? Preserved ginger
used to be lOd. a lb. a few years ago. Recent
sales to the householder were at 2s. 6d., but
it is now alleged to be unprocurable. No
doubt we import all we use, to judge from
these indications. Ten years ago, in sandy
soil, I raised a few shoots at Malvern
(Vic.), and a new root formed below each —
an experiment which showed that there
would be a loss in trying to grow the plant
near Melbourne, the new root portion being
only a quarter the size of the decayed “seed”
root. Still, if ginger will actually grow at
Malvern, it ought to flourish in tropical
Queensland. What evidence has the nor-
thern Department of Agriculture to offer?
* * *
Graeme Balsillie, who has been co-
operating with the Federal Government in
an attempt to stimulate the rainfall in the
Victorian Mallee, claims to have added an
average 10 p.c. to the rainfall for the Hope-
toun district during a 20-months’ test, and
increased the wheat-yield by 2.99 bushels
above the combined averages of the Mallee
and the Wimmera. The Wimmera is mostly
inside the lOin. limit of rainfall for the
wheat season, and parts of the southern
portion get as much as 15in. Hopetoun is
in the driest section of the State, and
doesn’t get lOin. Balsillie’s alleged addition
of 10 p.c. is therefore a large and important
item; and it might be ,larger and more
important if he would take his oath that
he hadn’t robbed Peter to play his hose on
Paul.
* * *
“Broker”: Preference granted by Britain
to Portugal as to port and Madeira wines
resulted in a contribution for 1919 of 91
million gallons, out of a total from all sources
of over 19 millions. Of this record lot Aus-
tralia supplied only 4711,5 <3 gallons. At the
end of the year bonds in Britain held over
seven million gallons of her ancient ally’s
port, compared with two millions in December
1917. before the operation of the special
preference. But the elimination of com-
petition has had its expected result, iviuch of
of the wine lacks the character of that upon
which Portugal’s old reputation was built.
On the other hand, the wine sent from Aus-
tralia continues to receive lavish praise. A
Digger who stayed in Leeds has arranged for
the whole outnut of a vineyard run by two
brothers in Victoria, and has disposed of
three profitable shipments with good results
and without complaint. When he has
mopped up a few more vineyards he in-
tends to sell nothing else; meanwhile his
orders are greater than he can supply.
BURGLARY!
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
Jbe house of John Smith at Balmain was entered
by burglars yesterday and jewellery to the value of
less than a million pounds was stolen. Constables
Brown and Jones were early on the spot, but no
trace of the missing articles has yet been found.”
The world is full of empty places
.Where late the gems and gold have been.
The wicked burglars leave no traces,
But walk directly from the scene.
They walk away from all beholders,
No finger-print they leave behind;
The swag of loot upon their shoulders,
They face the darkness cold and blind.
At dawn the loud policeman thunders
Full-booted up the crashing stair ;
He looks, he sighs, he thinks, he wonders,
Then notes the circumstance with care.
His face is stolid, vast and solemn;
The riddle has his soul perplext.
He sets the rubies in one column
And lists the diamonds in the next.
He makes a plan of hall and basement,
Of balcony and window high,
The creeper trained for the eft'acement
Of bare brick walls is in his eye.
He calls the family about him,
lie marks what each consumed for tea;
Then, as the problem seems to flout him,
He fades away in mystery.
“Less than a million jewels stolen!”
The cry is loud upon the air.
The tale by lusty rumor swollen
Catches the crowd beneath its hair.
Poor Mrs. Smith robbed of her treasure,
Her gauds of gold, her chains of pearl,
Her emerald bracelets made to measure
When she was quite a little girl!
Rozelle, Balmain, are in a flutter;
The horror spreads to Annandale.
In Ultimo above the butter
The grocer ornaments the tale.
A hundredweight of clanging bangles,
V bucket full of brooches bright—
Pale Jane with rosy Susie wrangles
To get the tale of diamonds right.
But Bill stands face to . face with Moses,
Bad Bill who wears a beery eye;
And by the shape of their two noses
You guess that both are proud and shy.
Between them lies the famous plunder,
The yellow bars and lamp-beams mix.;
Then Moses speaks less loud than thunder:
“Both vas nine carat —three-and-six.”
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


' • , - ■ * 4.
;
;
•V.'- ,
'
isviss
'.V/
*- :
O'
I K
rr.-,
A !
// > ////<» r till i' » ' 1 \. \A v
m
B?
m
m
m
m
LIGHTS the DARty
[
LIGHTS the HOUSE
: . .' Vv . : ■
I
.-■ X ■ ■
a ♦
WXmM
€ I -V
hi
m
PU MPS the WATER
>.
i
M
IM<5 4Ka WACHFD
i
.
pillplS^OTi
m.
OPERATES
v MACHINES
00?$
mm
•m
l
m
£MM
:$■
mm
v.
0$
-
V
: .M
>- ■ ■
’
ttz
H -
S'*
s-';
.
Vi
SSi
II
m
Y>.
< -'mm.
•WMM
-00,
M
m
\ '
*
m
m
mm
** 0 ;^
0
BN
ms.
!> '■ V; '■:
DELCOLIGHT
The Efecfric Light and Power
Plant foryou fo install A
. Because — W\\\
is
DELCO-LIGHT IS AIR-COOLED: More than
4000 Delco-Light plants were used by the United
States Government in war-work. One reason
Delco-Light was specified by the Government
for this service was because it is air-cooled. There
is no water to carry —no freezing in winter—no
boiling in summer —just efficient simplicity.
DIRECT CONNECTED: The engine and gener-
ator are built as one compact unit. The engine
is direct connected to the electric generator.
SIMPLE: Delco-Light is self-starting and stops
automatically when the battery is fully charged.
There is only one place to oil. There are no grease-
cups with which to bother. No belt adjustments.
A 12-year-old boy can care for your Delco-Light.
DURABLE: Only the highest grades of materials
are used—from the best procurable ball and roller
bearings, through every detail of manufacture —
to the crank-shaft, which is drop-forged steel.
DEPENDABLE: Delco-Light is now endorsed by
over 1 00,000 satisfied users. The plant that oper-
ated so satisfactorily during the severest tests
under war conditions —certainly may be depended
upon for every-day use in your home or barn.
EFFICIENT: Delco-Light runs on kerosene,
benzine or gas. You get four times as much
light per gallon of kerosene when used for fuel
in Delco-Light as when you burn that same fuel
in kerosene lamps.
a
wm
%
f.
s m
:
NEW SOUTH WALES .. - Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 309 Kent Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA & TASMANIA. .Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA Geo. Wills & Co., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND , D, Riley & Co., Wellington.
I Farmers*' Co-operative Association, Christchurch.


gh
ffolepnaaf
JfasieK}
Holeproofs are made, bp
scientific methods, de-
veloped on Ip in recent
pears.
Wearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of alwaps having
perfect Ho sierp soft,
neat!p-fitting, stplish
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“HOLEPROOF”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multipig their
durabilitg.
If gour dealer cannot supplg
gou, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Wat-ter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
50 York Street :: Sydney.
BURNS AIR
fgh
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 902 Air 10* Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light, ho Wick! hotireano!
h'o Smoke! No Odor! Jlanvrorhet
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles*
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
s
Ik e largest selling
quality pencil in
ike world,
ENUS
PENCILS
fg
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
h
t.
i
fjm COMFORT
SAFETY
Flannelettes
WEES*
fgh
f.
4 m\
%
o >
r /
ix'JSal.
>
-O
0
WtCuojcw
Just Like New!
Dirty, gloomy, dust-catching furniture can
easily be restored to its original beauty and charm
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Has your mahog-
any furniture a bluish, cloudy appearance? An
application of
Joiisors Prepared* wax
will quickly and permanently remove it —at the
same time imparting a hard, glasslike surface of
great beauty and durability. It protects the varnish
—adding years to its life and beauty; covers up
mars and small surface scratches. It cleans and
polishes in one operation.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil
never gets soft or sticky in warm weather, conse-
quently does not gather dust or show finger prints.
Use it on your piano, gramophone, furniture,
floors and woodwork, linoleum and leather goods.
Use It On the Motor Car
When used on the motor car it preserves the finish
and protects it from the weather —prevents checking-
sheds water and dust and makes a wash last twice
as long.
Insist on Johnson's Products
from your dealer
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
§
sm
t pm
TRY
GLASS
wirfi
A SHOE
OF
LEAON.
r 77
ft
3
S
. t
i
IS- _ Acckts
".Rowlands
tkuftut -1 j
3-f
The King of Table Waters
Once you have sampled it you will be enthusiastic over it.
You will be srlad to recommend it to your friends. Koomah
is rich in curatives, containing lime, soda, lithia and
. magnesia.
Agents—
E. ROWLANDS
PTY. LTD.,
Purveyors to
Vice-Royalty,
Melbourne,
Ballarat,
Sydney and
Katoomba.
From his youth up, the Australian has
continually been adjured by his preceptors
to go to the ant to learn wisdom. Yet we
still cussedly prefer to go to Uncle instead,
and wisdom be blowed !
“D.F.”: The stockmen who brought cattle
from Gippsland to Victoria in the old wild
days used to make a little on the side by
taking back all the three-star brandy corks
they could get. The bush shanties would
give a shilling apiece for them, put them on
their chain-lightning bottles and sell the
stuff as three-star, a favorite drink in those
days. No one then ever called for whisky.
“It.A.”: Corditis (B. 18/3/’2O) isn’t an
ailment invented during the war. It was
a flourishing disease long before 1914 on
the training-ship Tingira. If a would-be
invalid can’t get hold of any cordite he can
eat ordinary brown-paper instead. It’ll
send up his mouth temperature just the same,
and if he strikes a new-chum doctor he’ll be
sent to bed. An experienced man will drop
to it and take the temperature under the
arm as well.
Office accommodation in Melbourne is so
short that every vacancy brings a swarm of
importers’ agents who battle for any rat-
hole large enough to hold a table and a tele-
phone. One building, which until lately
always bad a room or two empty, now has
a list of waiting tenants stretching from
here to the Aurora Borealis. Other buildings
boast similar popularity, and the only way
of easing the demand is to either build a few
skyscrapers or maintain a tariff that will
make importing practically extinct.
“F.W.”: Nearly 30 years ago T. H.
Williams, chief inspector of stock in South
Aus., was called upon to deal with an out-
break of tuberculosis in dairy cows. The
two herds principally concerned were rotten
with the disease, and in one instance 40
beasts were destroyed. The sequel was
made known to the inspector a few months
ago. He learned that all the members of one
of the families which owned the herds had
been wiped out by consumption, and of
the members of the other family only one
remained. God knows what has happened
to the customers of those two dairies!
“M.P.A.” : It was in the museum at Naples
that I unexpectedly discovered the origin of
the word “deadhead,” that expressive
term for people who get into a show on
the never, the nod, the bow; on a brief
or a stiff. In a glass case there is a full
range of tickets that were used at the theatre
at Pompeii. They are carved bone discs,
and each set of tickets has a descriptive
ticket attached. A row with death’s heads
on them are indicated as the tickets that
were issued to persons who were given free
entry to the amphitheatre. The deadhead
of to-day dates back to 600 b.c. : these
“stiffs” were dug out of the ticket-office
when the ancient theatre was excavated.
The corrupt Erzberger, now discredited in
the eyes of both democrats and monarchists
in Germany, seems to have been the first to
call the British expedition the “contemptible
little army.” As far back as August, 1914,
he wrote in Germania: —
Germany will be em halted when this half-million
of English advance against us. We will put some
old military man so decrepit that he can hardly sit
his horse in command of a squadron of semi-invalids,
and he will soon capture all these English and turn
them over to be shown at fairs as the last wonder
of the world. Those of our men who are first
badly wounded in this war must be put in this
squadron and given the first chance.
Clownish stuff, but it went well with the
deluded Boche of the period.
“Silas Snell” : I notice some manifestations
of terror at the prospect of the kind of
slanguage Dennis puts in the mouth of his
characters doing Australia incalculable
harm and destroying the prestige she won on
Gallipoli, if it is permitted to go abroad.
What is wanted, I gather from complainants,
is an export duty on push characters and
larrikin idioms. But looking at Sam Wel-
ler and several other Dickens productions,
remembering the vogue they have had abroad'
and seeing how little England has really suf-
fered in her material welfare and moral repu-
tation as a consequence of the publication of
their egregious language, I am reassured.
Coming down to contemporary work I don’t
find “Tales of a Mean Street” reacting
against England, nor have the vulgar charac-
ters that Neil Lyons delights in visibly re-
duced the price of Consols. Uncle Sam’s
scribes have put out an Amazonian flood of
dialect literature, and used a Niagara of gro-
tesque slang, and the general impression is
that U.S.A. could still borrow half-a-crowa
on her national securities almost anywhere.
So the chances are that, after Dennis has done
his worst, Australian credit will have suf-
fered no more mischief than the politicians
can do it unaided.
THE POST.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
At every house along our street
How eager is the host
To throw his portal wide to meet
The morn and even post!
In human hearts what prospects play,
What hopes incessant spring
That some fine day the postman may
A splendid fortune bring.
A time was when his knock a thrill
Awoke in breast of mine.
From somebody some day there will
Come something very fine,
I seemed to think ; but all he brought
Was news with human ills
Intensely fraught, and for goods bought
The long, incessant bills.
Expectance of enclosed cheques,
Of payments long-past due,
Of word about successful specs
And legacies in view
Flanies ever, and there’s still that crew
Whose hopes incessant soar—
The thousands who believe they’re due
A win in Tatt.’s to score!
My missives are unwelcome ones,
Rejected verse of mine,
And letters from ferocious duns—
The morn brings eight or nine.
Each day I at the post am beat:
That fellow cannot run
With joyous feet the mail to greet
Whose daily male’s a dun!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


, t
. *
'if .-JBte'i*:!
FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
r
K
j
a
B.S.A. FITTINGS are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don’t be put off with
"pattern fittings." but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy .
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
( representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd./.
Australian Buildings,
TRADEMARKS
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


CHILBLAINS SO BAD
COULP NOT WALK
OrWearStockingsorShoes.
Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment Healed.
“I suffered much from chilblains
which finally burst on my toes. My
(Mo)
4#
feet were much inflamed
and they were always itchy
and this caused me to
scratch them, especially in
my sleep. I was unable to
wear either stockings or
shoes and was unable to
walk about.
“I was advised to try Cuticura. My
feet were bad for a few weeks when I
got a sample of Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. I tried these and then got
supplies and my feet were healed.”
(Signed) Miss M. H. Morris, Burnett
St., Redfern, N. S. W., March 1,1917.
Use Cuticura Soap exclusively for
all toilet purposes.
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
«‘fi. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
WmSams
Dental Cream
T'HE regular use of Will-
iams’ Dentalactic Dental
Cream means fine, well-
cared for teeth, which ex-
press health and
| refinement. Will-
iams'Dental*
j actic Dental
8' Cream is a per-
fect dentifrice
and an efficient
|J antiseptic
| which preserves
! he teeth, keeps
| them clean and
i beautiful, and
kills the danger-
! ous germs in
I* the mouth and
throat, keeping
them in a floe,
; healthy condition.
We also recom-
mend Williams’
Dentalactic
Tooth Powder.
Sold by Chemists
Everywhere-
Send 1/3 in stamps
to Williams, Box 98
G. P. 0., Sydney,
( for full sized tube,
I post free. W. 6
I Oftbi
f.V.V.i
Williams!
D!^enialacHc"
OtC.uS.DAT Off-
Den ha I
Cream
sure
(Ilf
THE
-» B.wiluams CO
'OIASTONBUftt.CONN.U!
• •••••
•e• • • •
''loDSßßaav
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad 'Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
Wood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons whicli produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth,
Wanted to Buy.
Diamonds, pearls and other fine gems.
We wish to BUY in any quantities.
FAIRFAX Si ROBERTS, Ltd., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
i
Fairbanks-Morse
“Z” ENGINES
1y 2 H. P. to IS H. P.
Economically Use Kerosene
HERE is an engine built for all farm work. Whether
you need power for driving a small churn or separa-
tor, or whether you want to run a large pump or
com sheller—a Fairbanks-Morse “Z” engine is the most
economical engine you can buy. Full power at lowest cost.
_The \*Z*' engines have Built-in Oscillating Magneto,
Throttling Governor, Speed Controller, Make and Break
Ignition, Close Speed Regulation, Removable Bushings in
Bearings. They operate on either kerosene or petrol.
With every *'Z" engine, you get Fairbankt-Morte
Quality the assurance of the utmost in enduring
engine-value
DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, Ltd., fydney.
JAMES WARDeE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
.JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd., Mastert'on, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
Charms ea
jCHstiVato
GniOa
Jovstm*
Petrol
RLte^Mo«l&r<g
Foreign Utgpt ,
NEW YORK,
U. S. A.
London, England,
Bueno* Aire*, Argentina
Onoio
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveles*. 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens—Obtainable Everywhere
a§
ft\\v
n
eYALE
sea®
Ml
Protect
Your Own
Castle
“An Englishman’s home is his
castle.” It is by tradition, im-
pregnable and free from in-
trusion. Your home can be
equally secure, and complete
privacy maintained by the use of
Yale
Builders’ Locks and Hardware
With “Yale” on guard, you and
only you, with a key that was
made only for your lock, can open
your door.
There is a substantial beauty and
artistic finish to Yale Builders’
Locks and Hardware — Door
Closers, Night Latches, and Cab-
inet Locks, that make them also
an ornament to your home.
The Trade-mark “Yale” is on all
of them, including Yale Padlocks.
Bank Locks and Chain
Blocks.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. COMPANY
New York
Established 1868
1). S. A.
• .
(yale)
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
fg
Special features
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Hated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload (336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent-
-334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth. .
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Mrs. John Young, the first child of Pit-
cairn parents born on Norfolk Island, died
there last month, aged G 4. The Pitcairners,
descendants of the mutineers of the Bounty,
were removed to the island in 185 G.
Cold tea is following up all right.
A delieensed pub at Ironbark, Bendigo
(Vic.), has been bought cheap by the
Methodists and is to be used as a mission for
rescuing people who buy it now by the bottle.
A.N.A. orators are usually expansive, but
one boasted at the Sale conference that he
had made the shortest speech on record.
Detailed to present a certificate to an ex-
president, he pointed to the framed litho-
graph and said, “That’s yours.” Not to be
outdone in brevity, the recipient replied
“Thanks.”
“U. Reeka”: The Bulletin said the
other day that Theodore alone kept
Fihelly at _ the Railways. If anyone
kept Fihelly there it was Ryan, who
originally dealt that portfolio to him in
order to shut off the limelight from
him, and otherwise damn his popularity and
political reputation. In the end Fihelly
got even by sorting Ryan into Federal poli-
tics.
The Federal Government hasn’t put its
soul into the shipping enterprise. It has
no intention of constructing passenger
steamers. Yet if the passenger business is
left to foreign Private Enterprise a lot of
the cargo business will go to it also, for
the big liners want cargo as ballast. And
if they can’t get cargo they will cease to
run, and then Premiers will have to swim
to Europe for their loans.
While Melbourne’s lamentations concern-
ing the gas restrictions were at their height,
and housewives rose early and cooked late
to avoid infraction of the 8-till-5 regula-
tion, a wave of gloom suddenly submerged
the large suburban dwelling of one of the
city’s best-known church dignitaries. He
and Mrs. Sky pi lot had not bothered their
lofty heads about the wretched proclamation,
and in due course the ruthless gas officials
cut oil' the supply.
Every week supplies further evidence of
the absurdity of the present unscientific sys-
tem of arriving at a basic wage and so on.
Bernard Mulvogue, secretary for several
years of the Builders’ Laborers’ Federation,
told the Commission in Melbourne that “it
seemed to be the desire of mothers to give
the children meat three times a day; but,
unfortunately, in many cases this could not
be done.” So the Commission is invited to
increase the “living wage” in order that
ignorant mothers may make wrecks of little
Annie and darling Willie.
Always a strong pillar of Methodism, the
widow Moran has presented Queen’s College,
the Methody establishment at Melbourne
Uni., with an £BO-a-year scholarship-founda-
tion out of the profits of the Moran and
Cato grocery. Mrs. Moran was never the
sort ,to spend much on herself. Her most
expensive hobby was the maintenance of a
huge private equipage in which the charm-
ing little old lady used to have herself
driven about to see her friends. No “side”
went with the outfit, 1 however, and goodness
knows the quaint turnout caused no envy.
The five-day-week movement is really not
so . much an effort to give four hours’ extra
leisure to those who want it as to force it
°n. those who don’t care much about it.
Within limits the day-wage man takes a
day off at his own expense very much as he
pleases; but the policy of reducing produc-
tion calls for compulsory stoppage. Secre-
tary Garden, of the Sydney Labor Council,
stated that he would have preferred to reduce
production by less drastic means. ' The
Council said Garden generously, “has always
been willing to consider with the employers
the question of shorter hours.” Could any-
thing be more handsome?
The Northern Territory Commission dug up
a romance the other day. Carey, late Pro-
tector of Aborigines, told how he had solved
the matrimonial troubles of a lubra who
was married to an old man and had six
* friends” in attendance. With the help of
a draper’s catalogue a« Bible, he divorced
Delilah from her aged husband, sorted out
the most favored “friend” and sent the pair
oft happy. There’s some sort of moral in
this. To most white women a draper’s
catalogue is a sacred book, so the Rev.
Hymnbleat, after the knot has been tied,
might make the future safer, deah friends,
by reading a page about hats and the trim-
ming thereof.
. It hasn’t seemed possible for us to men-
tion our great natural resources without
fooling ourselves over them. The Con-
servator of Forests in Westralia has just
had his say about the timber resources of
that State, and declares most of the talk
about them, including even the generally-
accepted estimate, a gross exaggeration.
Instead of 8,000,000 acres of jarrah, for
instance, the area is ' not much over
2,000,000 acres. The result of the exaggera-
tion that worries Lane-Poole most is '
that enormous quantities of timber have
been wasted or put to poor use; and of course
the poisonous theory that Australia needn’t
worry about “secondary industries” has
been built upon it.
“A.P.D.” recalls some golden days:—
Mention of the old Morning Star, Wood’s Point
(Vic.), brings to mind an episode of ’66, when that
mine was opened. Tom Cherry, a new-ehum, was
making his way to the Point with a case of gin.
He humped it along th e track to the top of the
Gentle Annie spur, and commenced business under
a bough shed at 2s. 6d. per nip—small nips at that.
Getting to the Point next evening he was present
during a discussion as to whether the Morning Star
had bottomed on a duffer or had not bottomed at all.
“Oh, well,” said one man, clinching the argument,
“anyone can have my share for £50.” Tom Cherry'
who knew nothing whatever about mining, stepped
forward and paid the £5O for a fourth share.
Within a week the Star glittered, and Cherry got
£200,000 in two years. He was introduced to the
Duke of Edinburgh as one of our representative
mining magnates. About four years later, however,
he was reported to have been sighted out Tambaroora
way humping bluey again. Another fine strike about
the same time was the No. 2 Lucky, at Alexandra
then called the Red Gate. This show turned out
320,0000 z. in about four years. The deepest hole
on it was 420 ft. down, and I was in the sink just
before the pumps were lifted and the mine aban-
doned. There was 4ft. of solid quartz showing, as
white as milk, and not a color of gold in it.


C
(•
B
7
S 3
CHAM Pm
m
e
wniner^
oma
0
£
?5
m
o
a
'
o-icr
»
5 f*
2?
SgakSSSsss
S3§
l
Ip
r-x:
%
&
(
ftMMMWnTh
V
§y
;
m
a
#/(
j
f ;
M
-fr^
im'
im
■
*y
a
ii
.-•B
do~*p^
&'Q' 'l
WZ
i-r-i?
dfe
?Sa ) l j-t/j
fi-.
&
s&
rrs
I
E
T) C
*
=-sMB
f <e k Jf*&Z
S»M
22
ifiWh
“■HU
«VU
jfl;<ugy*-S;
X
A
wwi
«si
zm&z%
Userid
\
«m
?
i
w
wn
3
sarv
BBWS^W
Let the Satisfactory Service and the Real Economy rendered to scores
of users throughout Australia by “Champion” Road Making, Cleansing
and Repairing Machinery be your guide in making your selection.
Wherever they have been used—by private contractors, shire councils
or municipalities—under conditions most favorable or most adverse—
the same Efficiency of operation has been secured and Marked Economy
has been a noticeable feature all along the line.
Those good results are due to the sturdy construction of every “Champion’- Implement
and to tlieir mechanical perfection, because, being mostly made in Australia by experts
fully acquainted with the conditions under which they are operated, they possess many
improvements which add materially to their efficiency. You will find the full facts in
our free booklets. Write to-day for those in which you are interested.
Booklet No. 3 tells all about “Champion” Tar Boilers.
Booklet No. 4 gives details of “Champion” Hand-power Concrete Mixers.
Booklet No. G shows the many points of merit about “Champion” Road
Sweepers.
Booklet No. 7 gives proofs galore of the superiority of “Champion” Road-
Watering Vehicles.
Booklet No. 12 shows why “Champion” Wiard Steel Beam Plows are so
reliable.
Booklet No. 13 goes into particulars of “Champion” Road Machines, the most
popular and widely-used Road-grading Machines in Australia.
Booklet No. 14—facts about “Champion” Earth Scoops.
Booklet No. 20 is full of information about “Champion” Road Rollers.
All or any of the above Booklets will be sent Free on request. Write to-day.
and satisfy yourself that “Champion” Road-making Machinery will lessen
your construction and repair costs.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.
Union House, 247 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Collins House, Melbourne.
Union Bank Chambers, Brisbane.
US>fc
OH\M
To BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO.. LTD.
Dear Sirs,
vvf 1 ” interested as agents j n . and wili
be pleased to receive your Booklet No. (s) . with present p rices.
Signed
Address -
Strike out the words which
do not apply to you.


A. Saunders’ Diamond Cluster Three-bar Bracelet, Xsct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, 18et.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, ISct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 16ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £s.'
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Double-cut Di'mond-
set Expanding Wri-tlet Wat(h, full jewell'd, lever
mo\ement, £l7/10/-. Extra quality, £22/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Circle
Broo h, 15ct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
Double-cut
Diamond Hirer,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond King,
ISct. Gold, £23.
A. Saunders’ Cent.’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless Lever, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O,
£25, £3O, £lO, £5O, Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Ljo.ule out
Diamond Circle
Brooch, 15rt.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Hold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Double- cut
Diamond Ring,
lSet. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double row Diamond Bracelet, 15at. Gold,
£75. Larger Diamonds, £O5.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Trefoil
Bing, ISct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond
18ct. Gold, tlO.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
lSet. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cluster
King, 18et. Cold,
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
Smaller Diamonds, £5, £3/10/-, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ Double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Pearl-set Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
23/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set Pure Diamond,
£3/10/-
Larger Diamond,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s So’id Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £B/10/-
Others, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
£lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set Pure Diamond,
£3/10/-
Larger Diamond, £4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET, Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond S:arf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Necklet.
15et. Gold, £|Q,
lyfN
S 5
1
I
If
’# I
I \ X
1
SA
s
,
£
wm%
m
m
A
W-A
7.
Vi
§
V
v
7*
*
jl-Uhfll
mnl
m
m
V//
a
p
e
I
a
m.
w
/
rsi
H
"i
Mi
*
(tZ
m
/ ///>
[iiii
s
'.'V
pit
W't.
7,
m
m
'i/iiiii
J
’ .\\ V\l
< k
ms
*
®e
c £
AiV
i_U"ii\im v,i#M
ttCNw. ''
\ VTO'
7//A.


Situation Vacant.
4 PPL. I CATION S are invited for the
A position of GENERAL MANAGER of
a leading GENERAL ENGINEERING
FIRM in New South Wales, stating age,
qualification and salary required.
Applications by letter receiver until
Wednesday, April 14. 1920, addressed to
“PERSONALITY,”
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney.
Meetings.
First Australian
Co-operative Congress
( Consumers’ Societies).
SOUTHERN CROSS HALL, CASTLEREAGH
STREET, SYDNEY.
APRIL O, 7,8, 9 and 10.
Sessions 10 a.m.—12.45 p.m.; 2.15 —5 p.m.
OPEN TO PUBLIC.
PROMINENT N.S.W. and INTERSTATE
SPEAKERS.
LOCAL DEMONSTRATIONS—B p.m
ROCKDALE —Masonic Hall.
PARRAMATTA—SchooI of Arts
PADDINGTON —Town Hall.
ROSE BAY—Brvndainere Hall.
AUBURN—Open air.
APRIL 8
!■ APRIL 9
Missing: Friends.
NOTICK.
tF GEORGE HAYES RANKIN, formerly of Ballapur
-L and Merbein, in Victoria, will communicate with
the undersigned he will hear of something to his
advantage.
OAKLEY and THOMPSON,
Solicitors, Bit-chip, Victoria.
RE Estate of No. 2669 WESLEY RAINFORD
HAND, 56th Battalion Australian Imperial Force,
Deceased. —The Father, Mother and Brother of the
abovenamed deceased, or anyone knowing their
whereabouts, are requested to communicate with
the undersigned, T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office, Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
NUROO’S LUFRA HOTEL,
EAGLEHAWK NECK, TASMANIA.
ONE of the most charming seaside resorts of Hobart.
Tourists should not miss spending a week at
Eaglehawk Neck when visiting Tasmania. Lufra has
everv modern comfort, excellent surfing, charming
walks. Tasman’s Arch, Blowhole, Devil’s Kitchen,
Tesselated Pavement, all within easy walking dis-
tance ; also Magnificent Mountain Climbs and rern
Gullies. Conveyance leaves daily for Port Arthui.
Good Fishing. How to get to Lufra: Tri-weekly motor
service from Bellerive, 12/- single ; s.s. Cartela, from
Brooke Street Pier, Mondays and Thursdays, tty-
return. Abundance of fish, poultry, fruit and cream.
Write full particulars to
C. NUROO, Proprietor, Lufra Hotel, Eaglehawk Neck.
No business connection with Government Bureaux,
nor do I take their tickets.
ARTIFICIAL EYES.
To ensure a natural appearance an artificial
eve must be an exact match in size, shape and
color. This can only be accomplished by
making to the requirements of each individual
patron, and specialising in the manufacture of
SNELLEN REFORM and TAYLOR
PATENT FILLED CAVITY
MOVABLE EYES
to your satisfaction. Exact copies can be
reproduced from damaged patterns.
I am the sole agent in Australia for Mr. G.
Taylor, London, and have the exclusive right
to manufacture under his patents. All pat-
terns left in London with Mr. Taylor have
been transferred to me for future execution.
Visits will be made to other States. Particu-
lars on application.
L. MERRETT,
Moffitt Chambers, 283 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Messrs. METHUEN'S
NEW BOOKS.
Send your name and address to Messrs.
Methuen and you will receive regularly
their Illustrated Announcement List.
The Poems of Rudyard Kipling.
In five volumes. Buckram, 7s. 6d.
uet each volume; limp lambskin,
7s. 6d. net each; cloth, gilt top, 6s.
net. The Service Edition, 10 Vols.,
3s. net each volume.
The Phantom Journal and Other
Essays and Diversions. By E. Y.
LUCAS. F’cap Svo. 6s. net.
“As good as its predecessors, and there can
be no higher praise.”— British Weekly.
Not That it Matters. By A. A.
MILNE. F’cap Bvo. 6s. net.
“Wherever you may dip into this book you
will be amused.” — Times.
Essays on Art. By A. GLUTTON
BROCK. F’cap Svo. ss. net.
“Mr. Clutton Brock has never been more
effectively expressive.”— Daily Chronicle.
A Book of R.L.S. By G. E. BROWN.
Illustrated. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. net.
“The gift par excellence for the collector
of Stevensonian literature.” — Scots Pictorial.
Mountain Paths. By MAURICE
MAETERLINCK. Translated by A.
Teixeria de Mattos. Crown Svo.
6s. net.
“Never has M. Maeterlinck been more stimu-
lating, more ingenious than in ‘Mountain
Paths.’ ” — Daily Mail.
Methuen 8 Co. Ltd.
36 Essex Street, London, W.O. 2.
Aiiiimementß.
Hurry Kickards Tivoli theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MclN lObli.
-y- IVO L I THEAI'BE, gYDX E T.
EVENINGS AT 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND
SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A DELIGHTFUL NEW ENGLISH REVUE FROM
THE COMEDY THEATRE. T/'NDON, ENTITLED
TAILS UP.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
*1 YOJ.iI
TII EAT IJ IS, MELKOi; UNIS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE FANTASTIC MUSICAL COMEDY,
AS YOU WERE.
Prices as usual.
am unciiicMi"*
-j- || |.; \ 'i' uis It OV A I-, SYDNEY.
GRAND OPERA.
The J. C. WILLIAMSON GRAND OPERA COMPANY
in an extended repertoire of Operas, including
Lia Tosca, Romeo and Juliet, Louise,
and Tales of Hoffmann.
Evenings at 8. Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays
a t 2. Plans at Paling’s.
HI? It Al A.I»iST V ’ S. SVl> N K V
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON L'l O'.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinfies Wednesdays and Holidays at 2.
THE REVUE OF A THOUSAND AND ONE
DELIGHTS,
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast.
Plans at Paling’s.
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
Jin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers' Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle TroußhJng, Cast Iron apd Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches,
London Pattern Blocks, etc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses —418-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane. Works—Yeerongpilly.
(Trams ncarJjyO
[1
The Famous
Fx 8 R" Watches
Constantly we receive unsolicited letters from customers about
these watches. One just received reads; —“I purchased it four
years ago, and this is the first time it has stopped. It had a bad
fall. I have used this watch through all kinds of work, such as
cement work, and on two occasions it fell from the top of a steam
engine into a tub of water, and that never even stopped it. I have
found it to be absolutely accurate, and I never had a better watch.’’
The “Fx and R” Watch is a J-plate Lever, jewelled wherever
hard wear is. It has a compensated balance, and a brequet hair-
spring, and is profoundly accurate and unusually strong. It is
guaranteed for 15 years. We do not know of any make of watch
so dependable for bush or hard use.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures. Cash Only.
Gent’s Full-size Open-face
Oxidised Steel Super “Fx and
R” 15-jewelled Lever, 63/-
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
hfg
Anna Case singing in direct
comparison with The New
Edison, and proving that her
performance and that of the
instrument are indistinguish-
able.
The NEW EDISON
—the greatest of all musical instruments.
The NEW EDISON stands out among* its fellows as the one
supreme achievement in the world of music, because it is the
only instrument that can re-create voice and music with
absolute fidelity.
A hundred years hence lovers of music will still be able to
revel in the voices of the great singers of the present day.
Thanks to the genius of Edison, these can now be preserved for
the future—not in mere imitation, but in all the pure glory of
the original.
Call at the nearest Edison dealer and you will be convinced of the truth of this
modern miracle, or write direct for illustrated printed matter, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Cl! 1 T 10 It IO N Tll 10 A T It 10. SYDNEY.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 7.45. MATINEES WEDNESDAY
AND SATURDAY AT 1.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plans at Paling’s.
ALACK TH E A T K E, SYDNEY.
LMrection J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT S'.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
EMELIE POLINI
and All-Star Cast in
KINDLING.
A DRAMA OF TENSE INTEREST.
Box Plans Nicholson’s.
WIUTiI BROS. LTD.’S CIRCUS.
THE HIPPODROME, IIAYMARKET.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays & Holidays at 2.30.
THIS YEAR BIGGER, BETTER THAN EVER.
ALL NEW STAR COMPANY OF AMERICAN,
CONTINENTAL AND ENGLISH ARTISTS.
Children Half-price to Matinees.
Box plan at Nicholson’s and at Hippodrome.
■ I N 1 O N PIC T C It IS T II 10 A T It K S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HICIt MA.I liSTV’a THEATRE, M KLBOt UK It.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
,T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
Til 10 ATIt 10 It OVA L, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present London’s Most.
Successful Comedy,
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRINCESS'S
Lessees BEN and JOHN FULLER.
MVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN and JOHN FULLER PRESENT THE
GREAT CHARACTER ACTOR,
JOHN LAWSON,
in
HUMANITY AND THE NATURAL LAW.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
K .NG’S
TUK AT RE, M E L K O U K N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j k X. TAIT present the great Belasco play,
TIGER ROSE.
The Greatest Drama of a decade.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
OWN HALL, ME LBOU R N E.
Direction E. J. CARROLL,
TWICE DAILY. 2.30 and 8 p.m.
10. j. CARROLL Presents, by Arrangement with
Australasian Films, D. W. GRIFFITHS’S
THE GREATEST QUESTION.
Also
THE SHADOW OF LIGHTNING RIDGE,
FEATURING “SNOW T Y” BAKER.
Prices: Evenings, 3/-, 2/- & 1/- MatinGes 2/- & 17-
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DM LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
EVELYN NESBIT in
THOU SHALT NOT.
BRYANT WASHBURN in
LOVE’S INSURANCE.
Prices as usual.
J|/|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
H. B. WARNER
in
THE GREY WOLF’S GHOST.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QLACIABIUJI, MELBO U R N E.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING.
8.15 to 10.45.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/*
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
Reserved Table 2/6 extra.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
lie productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SF.LZNICK. __
It IT ANN IA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
■y HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
LUCK of the navy, the rotters,
a temporary gentleman.
CHRISTCHURCH, TO APRIL 24.
ATJOKLAND. MAY 4 TO MAY 22.
Missing Friends.
WANTED. —Information regarding the whereabouts
of WILLIAM BROWN, who at one time followed
the occupation of a Baker in Brisbane. Supposed
to have left Australia for South Africa.
If this advertisement comes to the notice of the
said William Brown, he should communicate with
the Public Curator, Brisbane.


Write or
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR ITtophcv
ii f Exper-tj Efficient and Economical ENT ’
cull fot full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTUEREAGH STREET SYDNEY'
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee. ’
&
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIW
&. OLD TOM
Swift & Company L,UI„ Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney^!"
fit
DTi
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than the shillings you are
asked to pay. It is genuinely
welted—all “EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-day.
47/6
PAIR.
“EMBASSY” Shoes are
the Standard.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville.
LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hioi: Majesty's “The Passing Show of 1920’’
CitiTutiON “The Sleeping Beauty”
Royal Grand Opera
£ AUCK “Kindling”
“Tails Up”
i’ vILf o ' Moving Pictures
U.\JON liieatres Moving Pictures
I me Hippodrome Wirtlis’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
"if 1 ' 1 ! -M ajesty * s “Kissing Time”
Loyal “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
kino s ••. . - “Tiger Rose”
i iIINCESs s “Humanity and the Natural Law”
1 IVOLi .. “As you Were”
Hoyt s On Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
vr^» STIC Slaving Pictures
rm.n. BA Moving Pictures
I iihannia Moving Pictures
Gr.ACIAHUTM • Daneing
low>f Haw, Moving Pictures
♦
John Lawson makes the Easter bill at
Melbourne Princess’s a matter of particular
interest, for the round-shouldered, aquiline-
nosed veteran whom the Fullers have intro-
duced to Australia is an actor with a strong
personality and a most artistic punch. In
an ungraceful, doctrinal play called "The
Natural Law” (it might well be “The
Natural Lawson”), the newcomer presents a
finished picture of a philosophical humani-
tarian a medical man—who linds himself
out out of his fiancee's affections pro tou.
by a beefy young athlete, much admired of
tlie ladies. Two months after the opening
of the play Sex Attraction has got the
parties into difficulties. Until, being in
trouble, is persuaded by her boil me boy to
go and ask Dr. (faster (the jilted one) to
get her out of it, whereat the conscientious
doc. is profoundly shocked. Jack the Se-
ducer is now about to leave New York for
Europe in order to win a Marathon race,
and he talks of marrying Until when he
returns, by which time the lady will be fairly
out of trouble, lie reckons. Jack has a
sulky sense of “duty,” as well as a fine de-
termination to win that Marathon. The
doctor, however, calls .upon the young man
to marry the girl right there, on the suppo-
sition that Sex' Attraction still holds good
and that the child-iu-prospeetive will ensure
a happy marriage. Hut as the troubled spinster
realises the fact that her “betrayer” places
Marathon first. Duty only second, and Love
an indifferent third, she loudly refuses Jack’s
offer of matrimony, and states that his casual
responsibility for the coming babe will not
give him any right to nurse it when it
arrives. Then everybody is shocked except
the cool, kind doctor. A third and last act,
composed mostly of comedy padding, ends
with another interview between tin l brainy
doc. and the brawny athlete, who has won
the Marathon meanwhile. The interview
confirms the faithful philosopher in his inten-
tion to take Ruth for his own and he a
father to her encumbrance in due course.
The play bristles with faults, yet its longest
speeches have truth in them, and John Law-
son, in the character of chief preacher,
naturalises every situation he dominates. It
is a pleasure to watch his by-play, and note
how convincingly he makes lii.s points.
* ' * * *
In the presence of the leading man, Guy
"Tiger Rose" at
Melbonrne Kiagis.
Maie [?] as Rose
Hastings, as Jack,
looks a more un-
comfortable actor
than usual, and
George Cross, as
an upright judge
who loses his head
over Enid Bow-
man, seems frankly
theatrical in his
bonhomie. An air
of: conventional
domestic dra m a
envelops Miss
Lucille Sidney, as
the heroine, during
the first half of
the queer story,
hut she shouts her
indignation in the
second act with
considerable force
ancj feeling. Katie
Towers gives full
value to a small
part, and Inman is
understood to be
an ingenuous youth
named Freddie.
After “Th e
Natu r a 1 L a w”
comes “Human-
ity. ’ an utterly unreasonable sketch of what
couldn’t happen to a benevolent Jew in a
gambling: hell, the moral purpose of the
entertainment being to glorify Hebrew
character in comparison with Christian
duplicity. Its dramatic aim. seemingly, is
to thrill guileless audiences with a chucking
and smashing competition between the good
Jew and the evil Gentile, who carry futile
destruction of stage properties to the limit
of absurdity. On Saturday it thrilled
nobody, and the wonder was that so crudely
sensational a music-hall turn should ever
have been associated with an artist of Law-
son’s ability.
I'he Sleeping Beauty” arrived at Sydney
Criterion from Melbourne on Saturday night.
It is an ambitious show on the scenic side,
but the producer has been checked in his
stride by the smallness of the stage. Eve
Lynn, the heroine, has a naif artificiality
of gesture and attitude which is attractive iii
its way. She furthermore possesses a clear
soprano voice and a talent for whistling.
M inifred Roma, the principal boy. is also
notably artificial, but the effect in her ease
i.s not agreeable. She overplays with eyes,
teeth and hands, and most of her movements
are stereotyped and irritating. Iler assets
are a round and tuneful voice and admirable
legs (2). George Welch presents a monarch
who is full of quiet pathos, a sort of
stunted Charles I. gone 'to seed. Marriott
Edgar’s gentle Dame continually reaches the
vast heart of the audience by plaintive domes-
tic touches having reference to profiteering
tradesmen and home worries in general. The
Egbert Brothers heave paste about, smash
things, fall down and are industriously comic
in other ways. It is not their fault, but
that of the eating years, that they bored this
critic. The shining gem of the panto, the
item which is worth the admission money
"THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Kilt ami Walter (brothers Egbert) in a
golf burlesque.
I).V itself, is the diluting of Maggie Dicken-
son. She appears in various ballets with
Sydney Yates, and all of them are exquisite.
Singing with all her old artistry, Dolores
he d her Sydney holiday audience in the
hollow of her hand. It is the same Dolores
in style of dress and coiffure, in the smooth
skin, in her way of Jiving every note of the
music, every word of the poem she is sink-
ing. and Dolores never sings anything that
18,,I 8 ,, ’l'!*- poem. Perhaps it was first in
Jvobin Loves Me” that you felt she had
you just as securely as that first time you
heard her sing “My Mother Bids Me Bind
My Hair and “Who is Sylvia?” Her old
admirers sat up and beamed at “Clara’s
hong and encored till she sang it once
more and when “The Persian Love Song”
died to its close Dolores had to come back
a second time to sing “Bonnie Doone.” And
at the very end of all she sang as probably
no other can quite sing it, “Love Was Once
■' , £oy Harold Smith, caught the
car with the fancies he wove from the key-
board, and organist Truman managed the
big Town Hall organ.
grand-opera mill works away
il; I"' and the musical sec-
tion Of Sydneys Easter crowds keeps the
m] f v T this (Thursday) evening
.Bile* of Hoffmann” gets another run
Carmen gives Don Jose the time of his
Ml on Friday, At Saturday’s matinee
Madame_ Butterfly” flirts her fan; in the
evening Hoffmann will once more tell the
story of his life in the dark old beer-cellar.
ai“?y I layhouse. Apparently some of
f Patrons have got lost, as .T. and N.
I ait beg to inform the numerous visitors
to Sydney that the Playhouse is next door
to the head fire-station. If you can’t find
it break a street alarm.
hhnefie Pofini.and co. are working hard
at the Palace in order that the ediintw
a®dav ID “Th dl rCT“^ do two Tait shows in
a, day. Ihe Little Damozel” is being pre-
Sv JfeSPH "'hOe d,„b S
stuffy Kindling” occupies the evenings.
' vi,d elephants trumpeting
< J< r ° nul ke more noise than the
f,,j. | ( l \v "f i,V IS W i°, ban ? s the drum
f ;LC-U. Ltd., and lets Patagonia and
u-n n at Show
oi I -»_0 is available at Sydney Majesty’s.
lails T]i at the Tivoli lightly pursues
* « n \ ouse ot inconsequence across' the roofs
of Sydney, while comedian Billv Elliott looks
black.
The film-man lias laid a heavy load on
little Alary Picktord's shoulders tills time.
In “Heart o’ the Hills” Alary at 12 is vowed
to avenge her father’s murder; and when
she stands her trial, the whole jurv claim
separately to have fired the fatal shot. For
the rest Mary is prettier than ever and is at
home all week at the Lyceum, the Crystal
talace and the Lyric. Tom Moore on the
same sheet is the bright spot in a storv of
snobbery. Robert Chambers’s "Lark Star”
throws illuminations into the otherwise dull
life of a missionary’s daughter. Fortunately
a young. man has been born under the
same stars baleful influence. The two have
a series of crowded hours owing to the
Lenin secret service and some plans of
Turkish forts. The Globe and Lyric hold
tho constellation. Olive Thomas as the Spite
Hride proves to Strand and Empress audi-
ences that, although a lady of the chorus,
she knows her own value. Harold Lockwood
lives m Shadows of Suspicion” at Hoyt’s.
Harold’s special bit-o’-fiuff turns up her nose
ft him because he doesn't get into khaki:
but of course lie’s in the secret service and,
\\ hen lie saves old London Town from being
blown to pieces, there’s a happy close-up.
While the revue girl capers and looks like
nothing on earth, Wirtlis’ elephants down
at the Hippodrome (Sydney) divert the
Easter crowds by being perfectly natural
without any expenditure on silk stockings or
complexion powder. The revue girl passes-
the circus is eternal.
A little Sydney show:—
A. J. Da ply n’s art. show lias offered good company
1,1 a eorr, er in the Royal Society’s gallery during the
past fortnight. It is crammed with interesting copies
ol' Old Masters, and alluring corners of Bruges and
which his brush and fancy caught after the
Armistice left the artist free to work in the frenzv
or blue sky and open air. Most of the outdoor
sketches quickly acquired the red ticket. Mrs. Datolyu
lias reproduced his Corot, Murillo and Millais in
water-colors, and of these the happiest are “The
Woodgatherer” and “The Spanish Beggar Boy.” Of
the outdoor work “In Kew Gardens” and “On Surrey
Hills are attractive examples of the manner of this
veteran.
At the King’s ‘‘Tiger Rose” is still de-
taining the red-coated cop for an all-night
sitting while her best boy puts half a conti-
nent between himself and the Law. The
young man hardly seems the type to inspire
Rosie s devotion, but no doubt there have
been cases of strong, fierce natures getting
intoxicated on honey and milk.
"Kissing Time” starts its eleventh week
at Melbourne Majesty’s on Saturday.
At Melbourne Royal the course of “Tilly
of Bloomsbury’s” true love is still being
smoothed out by the providential broker’s
nian. Also Lmma Temple continues to dry
!. , n!'ie lUOt 'i < ' I 'i' V^ teai 'i S 011 Doi ' ot l l .y Seacombe’s
cuils, ancL father keeps on hearing of some-
thing and Lilly’s chance of being taken
from her new billet into the bosom of
Ntyan s family seems pretty nearly a cert.
Mis. Brough and Beryl Bryant may protest
but old man Styan, having a kind plebeian
heart, will probably put their family pride
to confusion. 1
* * si: *
. At Melbourne Tivoli the job of tak-
ing transition pills and being shifted
jSf. k I? i y Sone centuries has devolved upon
Ellis Holland in place of Bert Clarke. There
is not much sunshine in the smile of the new
Bil.von Boost. In fact, lie hasn’t any smile
to speak of. But he cuts bis jokes clean] v
and doesn t prevent the humor of the vari-
able show from improving on acquaintance.
Harry Keigh Eustace.' at Melbourne
Athenaeum Hall goes on talking fluently of
tlie bun aloes he has met and the rhinos, he
has i pliotoed. Thus far the last nights of
Lnstace s discourse and the moving pictures
in support thereof are not announced So
the ears of the deceased elephant will wag
until further notice.
At Tom Roberts's Melbourne show:-
The unpretentious orthodoxy of Tom Roberts’s
pictures at the Athenamm is very soothing after
the provocative brilliance of some of his youthful
competitors. Though his work varies in merit, an
odd charm compensates for lack of quality in his
meanest performance. Probably his recent studies
01 Sassafras scenery are least exciting 'artistically
yet even in these his appreciation of all-green
things enables him to picture places for poets to
cream in. In landscape, however, he scores most
with the miniatures of Lake Como and Alpine
scenery, the Alps getting his applause i„ a
fetching palette of greys. Watching the old
palaces and pines about Lake Como. Roberts
also finds cool colors sufficient to express his
enchantment, and it is the same when lie looks at
the sky over Norfolk or peeps at a bit of June
between Somerset trees. In portrait- and figure-
painting Tom’s eye and hand work in beautiful
collusion. His two semi-nudes are not exactly
divinities, but the drawing is fine and sweeping, and
the bloom of the flesh is presented with a rosiness
verging on flattery. For its curious feminine appeal
the portrait of Miss C is especially noticeable.
'the flush on the cheeks looks like rouge in contrast
to the surrounding pallor, but the light in the eyes
makes the face complex and challenging, and the
sombre background enhances the effect to an unusual
degree. “Eileen’’ and “Lucille’’ are more conven-
tional in treatment, and the picture of a wounded
soldier has the forte of a treatise on melancholv.
There is good painting in the impression of Mr.
Woodburn, the Comforts Fund Commissioner, while
in the study of Miss \V the attention is lured
away from the prim and piuee-nezed countenance
by the veracious portrait of an arih in a transparent
sleeve. “Shearing the Hams’’ by a brisk and earlier
liobeits is also included, and affords a somewhat
clamorous contrast to the rest of the exhibition.
Snowy Raker is loose at Melbourne Town
1-lull this week in the new K. J. Carroll
"The Passing Show of
1920,” at Sydney
Majesty’s.
Leslie Victor as an
impossible Frenchmaa.
ioat u r a. “T h e
Shadow of Light-
ning Itidge.’’
Snowy gives sub-
s' lance to the
shadow wli o car-
ries on a movie
vendetta against a
ratli e r por 11 y
baronet and em-
bezzles the latter’s
property, including
his best girl. There
is a surprise in the
final reel of the
yarn, but it isn’t
as astounding as
•Snowy’s horseman-
ship, demonstrated
in one instance by
leaping, horse anil
all, through the.
roof of a humpy to
drag hi s darlin*>
from the paws of
the villain. The
follow-on is “The
Greatest Ques-
t i o n,” w h i c h
deals with oil and
holiness, swindlers
a n d apparitions
in a manner that
. # JII IUUUUfI LliilL
points no particular moral to speak of. At
Hoyt’s Evelyn Nesbit, in “Tliou Shalt Not,”
takes the easy road to happiness to find that
it is uphill at the end. In the other Hoyt
Idin, “Love’s Insurance.’’ Ilryant Washburn
has a humorous time proving the necessity
of a high premium on account of the risk of
lire. At the Melba fluttered audiences are
watching the charming Bessie Barriscale in
“The Green Swamp” and are according her
a unanimous vote of confidence. For the
moment the Britannia is the home of “Mr.
Wu,” wherein Lillah McCarthy shivers and
shrinks before the Chinese affection of
Matheson Lang.
Brewster Jones, the Adelaide pianist and
composer, possibly intended a recent sym-
phony-orchestra concert as a gentle re-
minder that the city already has such a
thing, independent of the new movement in
orchestra-founding by Prof. Davies. There
was a strong programme, including “Peer
Gynt, ' Lizst’s Hungarian fantasy, Revel’s
“Pavane,” Debussy’s Faun, some Liza Leh-
mann. and Jones’s own setting of Shelley’s
“I Arise from Dreams of Thee.” The only
ground for criticism was that the orchestra
had a pain in the wind occasionally; and
this was probably due to the awful weather
Ihe Queen’s Hall is a trifle small for To
performers, but it was a pleasant evening.
Adelaide shows wake up from their sum-
mer siesta at Faster. The present pro-
gramme is a first-in-Australia opera at the
Loyal. “Mother Hubbard” at the Tivoli.
Babes m the Wood” at the King’s, and
variety at the Majestic, where neat dancer
Eddie Martyn has just come in. Also the
weather is so unseasonably warm that Ror-
radale. and his Costume Co. continue in the
open at Austral Gardens, though the Queen’s
Hall has opened for a winter session of
dancing. Wondergraph pictures are an odd
mixture with Charles Ray in a realistic
nst-hgiit, and Queen Alexandra with other
Lngiish women in War-pictures worked into
an American love-story. At West’s “The
Mind-the-Paint Girl” makes an unusual
him with its glimpses of life in the theatre-
wings. The Town Hall is about to take
on the screen business, too. 'incidentally
revealing the authorship of that frequent
recent advertisement which has begged
somebody to sleep in a graveyard for” a
heavy reward. And the successful Exhihi-
, < ? n , , Manufactures now running provides
all kinds of side shows on the Jubilee Oval.
Premier Peake, of S. Aus., who died sud-
denly on Monday, was no doubt worried into
doing it. lie had liad great ill-luck with his
Oa binet; once more he had just been compelled
to make changes which meant trouble it:
the future. Not a brilliant man. he wa*
however, a solid one, and one of the mo-.’
convincing speakers in Australia; and hi-
personal honor was high above whe’-o <h >
shadows fall.


h
MURDOCH’S
for
S P O RTING
REQUISITES
Before purchasing your Winter Sports Require-
ments investigate the Moderate Prices submitted
by MURDOCH S SPORTS DEPARTMENT.
This SECTION is under the Personal Supervision
of Mr. C. KELLEWAY, the Representative
Cricketer, and a complete range of FOOTBALL.
TENNIS, BOXING, GOLF. HOCKEY and
other SPORTING ACCESSORIES is available
for your selection.
Enquiries invited from SCHOOLS AND COL-
LEGES.
FOOTBALLS.
FORD’S “INTERST ATE” 18/0 each.
„ “CLUB” 17/0 „
„ “BEST SELECTED” . . 10/0 „
“HAND SEWN” 14/0 „
SCHOOL “INTERSTATE” 15/0 „
We will also have a range of FOOTBALLS on
sale from 10/- each. If you are unable to call,
please write and mention this paper.
STRIKING BAGS.
Complete with bladder, 18/-, 20/-, 22/-, 28/-,
33/-, 38/- each.
BOXING GLOVES.
Ail weights, 14/0, 21/-, 27/-, 28/0, 31/-, 37/0,
40/0, 52/- pair.
FOOTBALL JERSEYS.
Various colors, 10/0 each.
Football Hose, 5/0 pair.
Write for quotations for quantities.
TOBACCO DEPARTMENT.
You can buy your Favorite Cigars, Tobacco or
Cigarettes from Murdoch’s at a little less than
elsewhere. Mail Orders receive immediate atten-
tion.
MURDOCH’S IN PARK STREET,
OUTFITTERS TO MEN AND BOYS,
DTD.,
SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.
Gold & Silver Presentation Cups
During the past fifty years Drummonds’ have designed
and manufactured most of the principal Racing and
Sports Trophies in Gold and Silver. Their manufactur-
ing department affords exceptional facilities in this
direction, and their large selection offers the means of
selecting some very chaste designs of finest English
Workmanship.
®Em. Brnmmonft & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
METBOPQLITAN-VICKERS ELECTRICAL CO. LTD.
Electric Motors
There is a Metropolitan-Vicars Motor for every -power application
purpose. They are built in all types and sizes—both alternating and
direct current. They are built to withstand severe service and to
give maximum efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,750,000 h.p. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterised by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
- A Metropolitan-Vicars motor is the one that will enable you to
realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co. Ltd
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:—
84 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
TURNBULL & JONES, LIMITED,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
lIHHII 111 111 nniHllHlllHlimuMHnmnnnmmmnmuunniiinininnnHimim mini minium
Works Tratford Park, Manchester, England.
fgh
THE NEW MAXWELL"
j HAT we have built 300,000 Maxwell Motor
1 Cars on the original, simple motor design
does not mean that there have been no improve-
ments in building Maxwell Cars.
Many improvements have made it possible to keep in
advance of general progress; thus the Maxwell Car is so
mechanically correct that it runs the most miles per gallon of
petrol and most miles per tyre.
New purchasers of Maxwell Cars are justly proud of the
appearance of to-day’s Maxwell. Confidentially they will tell
you that they thought the price would be greater. You will
agree with them if you will investigate.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —New York.”
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


Alkali Causes Soap
To Injure Hair.
Nearly all soaps and ready-mixed shampoos
—even the most expensive—contain too much
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
scalp and makes the hair brittle.
Really the most elegant and safe thing to
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—but is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things.
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces lasts you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it through—thoroughly. One
or two teaspoonsful is plenty to create a big
quantity of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully anil rinses out easily.
The hair dries quickly and easily, and comes
out brilliant, soft, fluffy, wavy and fresh as a
daisy, looking much thicker than it actually
is.
Best of all. this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. And yet
it loosens and carries off every bit of excess
oiliness, dust, dirt or dandruff scurf.
IMPORTANT. —Ho not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, as recommended above.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Callouses.
Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
fg
Tills is a wonderfully easy,
•luiek and pleasant way of
freeing- your feet of corns
and callouses. Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-Ice right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes.
The corn or callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
is for men and women who appreciate neat,
fashionable, attractive footwear anrl foot
comfort also. With Frozol-lee vou enjoy
both. There’s no pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-lee, nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding, healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice. and never let your corns
ache again. You’ll be delighted with it.
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Every
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists* High-class
Stores, etc.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after etaiug. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder or
compressed tablets —never liquid or milkj—
and is not a laxative. Any first-class chemist
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia.
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
POVERTY
POINT
“Hoppo”: J. C. Williamson raised prices,
making 10s. 6d. top figure. The Taits. fear-
ing loss of prestige, pushed theirs up two
days later. Now Fullers have joined in
and raised theirs at Newtown (Sydney)
from 2s. 6d., 25., Is. and Gd. to 2s. 6d., 25.,
Is. Gd. and 9d. And Newtown will howl
loudest.
Wish Wynne is suddenly back in Aus-
tralia —on Ben Fuller’s verbal invitation to
‘ return any time you like.”
“Fast Day”: Once more the didactic
“Mid-Channel” (B. 25/3/’2O) ! Flora
Graupner, a contralto, sings soprano parts
in G. and S. opera; and Violet Varley sings
contralto parts! “Mid-Channel’s” par. is a
morass of error: reading it seems like nego-
tiating a moving peat bog.
“0.P.”: James Lindsay, well known here
“The Sleeping Beauty,"
at Sydney Criterion.
Enter King Pompos
(George Welch).
as an extremely
useful actor, is one
of the stars in Nat
Goul d’s filmed
novel, “A Fortune
at Stake.” Lind-
say has been soldier
—lie held a com-
mission in a High-
1a n d regiment—
cowboy, sailor (on
a pearler) and
London cabby. lie
began stage-work
by supering with
Henry Irving at
the Lyceum. Plis
first important part
was Sir George
O rreyed in “The
Second Mrs. Tan-
queray,” and before
coming to Australia
to support Nellie
Stewart he was
Horace Parker in
“A Message from
Mars.” Jimmy has
a Caleb Porter nose
and looks the part
of the aristocratic
Sir Mulberry Hawk as he rooks the pigeon.
“0.K.”: Belasco’s Yankee notion, as
expressed in “Tiger Rose,” is that stage-
effects can be made of more business import-
ance than the literary merits of the play.
The plot is subsidiary to the lighting scheme,
and the dialogue carries less weight than
an incidental imitation of a thunderstorm.
This notion is an indirect scoff at all the
plays written before electric light was
invented and mechanical reproduction of
familiar noises was brought into vogue by
the cinematograph. Fifty years ago there
was no electric light for working ingenious
stage effects; 20 years ago there were no
instrumental devices for producing any of
the sounds of falling rain, etc., that
“Tiger Rose” its only claim to distinction.
The plot of the play, the human interest
in it, is overshadowed by these tricks of
stage management. They are not artistic,
seeing that they are not essential to the
dramatic action. In America, however,
the application of picture-show characteris-
tics to spoken drama seems to have witched
the public with its newness. Being a new
method of dealing with old trap-door ai
grandfather-clock situations, it was accepted
as progressive, and in America “progres-
sive” is a word that cuts even more ice
than “efficiency.”
“J.F.H.” (London) : Dot Boucicault. has
made a success of “When Pita Passes Ry,”
a three-acter by A. A. Milne, a London
PUNCH writer. Dot is an old dodderer just
arrived in England from Australia. He
leads his hostess to believe that one of his
fellow-passengers, an ex-Australian convict,
is her first husband; whom she had thought
dead long ago. Consternation in the house-
hold, and all sorts of suggestions as to how
the situation is to be saved. Finally it is
discovered that the doddering old boy made
a mistake in the name, and, furthermore,
that the ex-Australian convict, whoever he
was, died suddenly at Marseilles just after
the arrival of the P. and O. liner. Only
the sprightliness of the dialogue, the admir-
able acting of Mrs. Dot as the astonished
wife, and Dot’s striking study of doddering
senility saves the piece, which in less cap-
able hands would be certainly howled down
as thin if not actually silly.
“Old Pot”: Memories of “the Blue-tailed
Fly” were revived
lately by book-
maker Beriiie Bar-
nett. A member
of Sydney Tatter-
sail’s Club, Bar-
nett is fond of
quoting Shaks-
pea re and tilting
at ex-A.J.C. han-
d icapper John
Daly. Barnett’s
affection for the
theatre is derived
from the fact that
at different times
lie “represented”
Billie Barlow,
Geo r g e Darrell
and Burton’s
Circus. Daly’s
favorite artiste
was Julia Mat-
tihew s, whose
equal he has yet
to see. All the old
tragedians
—Charles K e a n,
Buchanan, Charles
Dillon, J a m e s
Anderson and the
like —w ere his
friends, and like
other old fogeys,
“The Passing Show
of 1920," at Sydney
Majesty's.
Dan Agar as a comic
detective.
such as myself> he ealmot agree that the
actors of the present compare with those of
the days when we and the world were young.
From The B.’s most venerable critic: —
It seems to me the Flo Graupner tradition received
most of its high coloring because the poor little
woman soon disappeared from view. Believe me,
she was only “good for her size.” She had an
abbreviated figure, with no physique compared with
thick-set Violet Varley, a head which was large for
her meagre body, and a nose which was large for
her face. All her stage qualifications, bar her
voice, were in a small way, and the combination of
herself and Vi Varley was enchanting only to people
for whom diminutive she-creatures have a particular
attraction. To me she rarely seemed big enough
for the part she played. Her shoulders were so
narrow, her personality so undersized when viewed
in the light of, say, Nellie Stewart and Fanny Lid-
diard, I always felt that the little thing was being
taxed beyond her strength, and a mental breakdown
was inevitable. She and Vi Varley were a well-
matched pair in “The Old Guard,” but even then
it was Varley, not Graupner, to whom Sarah Bern-
hardt threw her bouquet on the night she figured as
star guest in a private box. If the same couple of
little ’uns were a “never-to-be-forgotten combination
in ‘The Gondoliers’ ” I must be the exception that
proves the rule, for the combination has slipped my
memory; and if I did see Vi and Flo as Tessa and
Giannetta their lack of inches must have belittled
their stage characters in my estimation. I’m certain
they were not associated in the first Australian pro-
duction of the opera, for Ida Osborne was Flo
Graupner’s partner that time. In “La Cigale,” as
well as in “The Old Guard,” the two popular
midgets were seen together, but they were then
subordinate to Marie Halton in the name-part, and
when “La Cigale” came on for revival it was Varley,
not Graupner, who got the chance to take Marie
Halton’s place, which, to tell plain truth, looked
two sizes too big for her. The hardest task Flo
Graupner ever attempted was the part of Elsie
Maynard in “Yeomen of the Guard,” when Courtice
Pounds gave his artistic performance of the hero
tenor. That was in November, 1895, and it was said
the worried little woman had to prime herself with
cocaine, or what not, for the ordeal. A year later
she appeared in the grand spectacular “Matsa,”
and she was then mentally played out. Her innings
with the Firm lasted six years, including pauses,
and the full measure of her stage life was only 10
years, I think. At the end of 1886 she was intro-
duced to grand opera by Martin Simonsen, and she
played minor parts with a fine co. that kept going
for a whole year. At the end of 1888 she and
Lilian Tree were working for Simonsen, who had
formed an English and Italian opera co., and it
was then she sang her very best as Micaela, in
"Carmen.” But neither in grand nor comic opera
was Flo Graupner a full-sized pHftia dohfia.
“T.O.I.”: Afraid “Hugh Stone’s” memory
is failing. Maggie Moore’s first appearance
in Sydney was at the old Queen’s Theatre,
in York-street, in the mid-winter of 1S75;
and if Mr. Stone was then, as he says (B.
l/4/’20), playing leap-frog over the old
tombstones of the George-street cemetery
he must have been doing it in his dreams.
The foundation stone of the Town Hall was
laid by the Duke of Edinburgh in 1868, on
the site of the old graveyard, and the build-
ing was completed and opened for business
July 1, 1875. There was not a vestige of
a tombstone left in 1870.
“Lou”: Charlie Dunn, the new secretary
of Melbourne Actors’ Assoc., is a fat and
jovial little Londoner who was on a Harbor
Trust dredge for years and came ashore
because of his radical politics. He has done
a lot of soap-box orating, and with a
breezy serio-comic style and a pretty
good hold of Labor matters, from the wobbly
political machinery to the embarrassing re-
volutionary tendencies, he can get a crowd
and hold it anywhere. He ought to make
a good union sec., though it's a sheer waste
of good comedy to bury him in the Union
office of an industry that needs him so
badly.
“D.J.” meets Mary Pickford Bara: — 1
About a year ago Mary firiggs, the daughter
of a friend, left school and came home to secure a
husband. A commonplace girl, with thick ankles
and red hands, she quickly yielded to the film habit.
The first intimation I got Of the trouble wits the
discovery of Mary brooding elaborately by the fire-
place. The model was one Or other of the World’s
Sweethearts. Slie sat On A ldw chair; her chiii
cupped in a large, scarlet hand; and gazed lugubri-
ously into the tireless grate, With the other hand
she should have beten fondling a faithful dog, her
only friend ; but the family terrier had jibbed and
was watching her distrustfully from the other side
of the room. In response to an inquiry as to what
was the matter she looked around and upwards, and
slowly swept the hair back from her brow. She
then smiled. It was meant to be sad and sweet.
In fact, it suggested imbecility. Witli the words:
“I will send my father to you,” she undulated out
of the room. The genesis of the film walk may
be seen in the Cairo Wazzir, where Soudanese
females and Arab boys perform the stomach-dance
for tbe amusement of the cafe patrons. To see a
girl like Mary stomach-dancing across a small
suburban drawing-room is not amusing. For dinner
she adopted another rOle. She was a Vampire-one
of those beautiful, reckless creatures who have shat-
tered hearts in every capital. She wore hardly any
clothes. As I talked to poor old Joe Briggs about
such things as the new tariff and the extortionate
price of biood-and-bone manure, I found it Impos-
sible to forget that a large, plain and almost en-
tirely naked girl was gazing at me with half-closed
eyes. Half-way through dinner she produced a six-
penny packet of “gaspers.” With a sinuous move-
ment of the arm she proffered one. “I neVer
smoke during meals,” I said in a decisive manner.
The hint went Unnoticed. She set fire to one herself,
and leaning back crossed her legs and blew an fevil-
smelling Cloud through her nose. She also made
languid movements with the hand which held ttie
cigarette; she closed her eyes as though in an
ecstasy; she let the cigarette dangle from her lower
lip while she held her face with both hands and
rested her elbows on the table. The picture-
palaces are producing results of this sort daily all
over the Commonwealth. The only swift and cer-
tain antidote is marriage; as against which we have
the indubitable fact that the complaint itself is
matrimony’s chief bane.
“R.R.”: As the younger sister of Blooms-
bury Tilly, Dorothy Seacombe lias to deal
mostly with comedy, but she first attracted
attention four or five years ago by the con-
vincing way in which she wept pints of
tears as the child witness in “On Trial,” the
Madge Fabian drama which was largely com-
posed of blackouts on the movie system. I
place her second to Cecil Haines (a fine
Suds in “Seven Little Australians”) among
the most natural child-actresses I have seen.
Kathleen Lindgren is about third. Dorothy
played Fauntleroy and other kid-parts in
Melbourne melodrama, but she suddenly and
rapidly grew’ until she w r as too tall, and
Edna Jones has since held the job. Dorothy’s
career as Miss Seacombe began in the Mel-
bourne production of the present panto.,
when she was one of the fairies who pro-
vided gifts for the baby Sleeping Beauty.
An off-stage performance was that of beim
crowned Queen of Queens by Lady Doris
Blackwood in one of the queen competitions
which were raging like bushfires around
Melbourne a couple of years ago.
“Nostaw”: In a waybaek King Country
(M.L.) town most of the inhabitants are
half-castes, dogs hnd dogs' inhabitants. The
local Town Board runs a picture-show much
“Tiger Rose," at
Melbourne King's ,
John Purdie as
Father Thibault .
patronised by the
Maori, and, follow-
ing an old custom.
Ra n g i and his
womenfolk sit on
one side of the hall
and his pakeha
brethren on the
other. The other
day I went into the
hall to see the town
clerk, and came
across the care-
taker getting rid of
the peanut shells
from the whites'
side. After yarn-
ing awhile he re-
marked, “Well, I
must get ready to
sweep out the Maori
side now.” He re-
tired to his den
somewhere in the
back and came
forth clad in little
more than a pair
of thigh gUm-boots.
But even then he
didn't always heat
them, for tile Maori
brand of flea was
getting cunning
enough, he said, to
climb up on the
seats and hop on as
he went past, lie
Was an ex-Digger
and said that the
Gallipoli gi’eybaek was ah amateur wheh it
came to bitiilg. After staying for two
lninutes t agreed with hiilL
Hugh Mclhtosh has a plausible, recipe for
ruling the World, or as much of it as he
can see at pile time —a free show and a
slifficieUcy Of light refreshments. It seetns
to Wbrk, tod; for the gentle politician and
a good many others who are more or less}
Representative of something or other rolled
up freely to a “gala night” at Melbourne
Tiv. lately. Some, of course, came for
another reason, which will appear later.
Little Billy swapped pleasant remarks with
his official opponent, Frank Tudor, and
George Foster Pearce, John West and other
statesmen looked on seraphically. The fact
that on the stage Miss Pearce was imper-
sonating Lizzie Tudor was generally taken
as a kind of compliment towards both
parties. The gentleman who is popularly
reputed to have the job of steering Hugh
D. into a title brooded mystically behind his
gleaming glasses o’er the face of the mineral
waters, and raised a semaphorie arm now
and then to indicate when a flashlight of
Hugh D. and some others was to be taken,
or when one or other of three V.CVs (includ-
ing .Tacka) was to walk on to the stage to
be given a life-pass to all (two), theatres
on the Tivoli circuit. There were about 15
V.C.’s present, and when one unexpectedly
made a speech on the rights of Ireland Hugh
endorsed all he said, like a canny Scot.
“Norbell”: Charles Mort.vne, after a few
years spent on the Richmond Rivet
(N.S.W.) a§ fisherman, cook to a survey
party. Cook oh a steamer and as ideal , rep;
for the North Godst fk S, Co., has got back
to the greasepaint at Newtdwn (Sydney 1
Majestic. With 50 years of strenhous nmiii-
ming .behind him, MortynC is ,a .blight
example to all stage veterans. He is Still
erect as a sergt.-major, has a head of hair
equal to any barber’s advertisement ,dn,d
owns probably the richest and most melodi-
ously-modulated voice on the Australian
stage. He used to be the Sir Geoffrey in
“Our Boas.” and is the ideal cultured enrl
of bellowdrama. He reaches "0 On April 22.
“Fax”: Marie Ilka, the Jewish-looking
little thing, with blacking under her eyes*
who plays the name part in “Tiger Rose,”
recalls Dalia Bassicli, the first and most
realistic Mirni that ever .sang to Australia;
Bassicli, who was understood to be a native
of one of the Balkan kingdoms, made a hit
as the gentle, consumptive girl, but she also
was a tempestuous Fedora later in the
season.
Dion Titheradge is still in the limelight
as author and mummer. When last heard
from in London he was starring as a more-
than-usually-keen detective in a little play
of his own called “The Name,” which on
its tour of the ’alls was topping the bill
at Collins’s, in Merrie Islington.
THE LOST CHORD.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
Half-waking and half-dreaming
I sat me down to write.
The full thoughts flowing, gleaming,
I wove them with delight.
With bardie rules empiric
I wrought at fever heat
To make that lovely lyric
ffhe world must find so sweet.
The small typewriter dirking
The tropes that softly rise,
A clock above me ticking,
And dusk before my eyes;
The deft hands score my rhyming,
I whisper; “This excels !
’Tis like the distant chiming
Of seven holy hells.”
So sped Hie lovely proem :
The ringing lines flew fast.
I finished straight my poem,
And inspiration passed.
I dreamed a little o’er it;
Adoring it I smiled,
The parent I who bore it,
And it my passion-child.
Alas! in my typewriter
No sunlit verses shone,
And now, a mooning blighter,
I mourn a pearl that’s gone.
Past hope, like morning vapor.
That never more is seen—•
I’d run no sheet of paper
Into the curst machine!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
Poet Webster, of the G.P.O., seems to
have been an awful influence for evil in the
C|vil Service. Boyce, of the Vic. Tourist
Bureau, lately burst into verse after samp-
ling “As You Were” at the Tivoli. Hai-k
to the white-haired culprit:—
Fairest of feminine gender,
' Delicate, dainty and slender,
Was our notion of Helen of Troy ;
But now, as portrayed by our Vera,
She is certainly very much nearer
To Helen of Avoirdupois.


The Studebaker" Light Four
Summed up in one word —SATISFACTION
YOU do not buy the Series 19 Studebaker “Light Four” for
any single feature or attribute. You do not buy it only for
its endurance —however lasting; for its comfort —however
luxurious; for its economy —however saving in upkeep,, tyres or
petrol.
You buy it for all of these qualities. You buy it for Satisfaction
in all departments. And that is what it delivers to you.
The Studebaker “Light Four’’ embodies a rare combination of
design, balance and mechanical perfection. It provides the maxi-
mum of comfort both in driving and riding, transmits ALL its power
and will hold the crown or side of a bad track without whip or
“side-sway.”
The famous L-Head Engine, the newly-designed
Gear Box, swung on a sub-chassis amidships, and
the Silent Hotchkiss Drive are special features.
Magneto Ignition, in addition to the separate
starting and lighting motors; a handsome leather-
lined Khaki Hood; the world-renowned Zenith
Carburetor, and 5 Goodyear Tyres are part of
the excellent equipment.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office For Australia : 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney*
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited, Christchurch,
Timaru, Wanganui, Palmerston North.
The Tasmanian Motor Service, Hobart.
mm
m
I \ I/till
Hi rffSiT I jjr23
% V% % 3
\1 ?
,
■1


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE ana COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents: RESCHS. LiniTHD. Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WMITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOR IMI.r KW.A, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANJEMIA ETC
A.B. WINE TONIC
made from beef, malt, fine old wine, etc.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating.
h
gmm
ĥ m
(Registered.)
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
and SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 354-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
S^ I RVI\F C *^r/vArHF«v C «® t r ef ' Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
msTTTT ro CH TTn N ' Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
Dl t' T e LLI * R f S°' J Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
JSxt-ra freights, necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIOMS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORYINC
MEEDS
Artilleryman was well and truly licked by
the Piastre gelding Millieme in the A.J.C. St. Leger.
There was no fluke about it, nor any opening for
disputation as to what might have happened if
something had occurred differently. The Melbourne
Cup winner had every chance, and on the form dis-
played it . is doubtful whether he will ever carry
weight against good horses. By the stable the race
was regarded as suitable exercise for the Cup on
Monday. What the fielders thought was reflected
in the offer to “take 12 to one.” The favorite ran
to the front and stayed a good four lengths out to
the six-furlong pole. Then Lewis rang up more
pace, and looking back at the half-mile, found
Millieme a bit closer than before, lie swung round
for the run lionie with a. two-lengths lead, ami
Bracken, once Millieme had been straightened, be-
gan the job of running the big fellow down. Lewis
was now anxiously niggling at the coltj and a little
further began to ride him in earnest. Just outside
the last furlong Millieme was upsides with him and
in a few more strides had him settled. An unsparing
whip made no difference, and Millieme. ridden very
confidently over the final stages, was having it all
his own way at the end. The winner ran the dis-
tance in 3 min. 1 sec.—a record for the race.
Kelso would have been well satisfied to see Hil-
lieme even extend Artilleryman, lie didn’t seriously
entertain ideas of winning the stake and was really
out to get the substantial prize for second place.
Millieme had only had a few weeks’ training, not
having been brought in from the paddock until
the possibility of something going wrong with one
of Artilleryman’s hocks came to be talked about.
At Rosehill a fortnight before he had run second to
the Comedy King crack, and in the Hawkesbury
Handicap a week later he performed indifferently
among an ordinary lot. On the other band, two
days before the St. Leger lie did a surprising
gallop on the tan at Randwigk. Apparently a light
preparation is enough for him. Anyway, he is a
much-improved horse in appearance and pace since
the Spring.
It was expected that the Doncaster this
year would be a fast-run race. It was. The mile
was Traversed in “373” —a record. And just before
the end a wild yell of delight went up from the
crowd, for as the field hit the last furlong Chrysolaus
looked a sure winner. And then —well, the yell
became a groan. One of the roughest of the
rough'uns had come from the clouds, and in an
agonised moment the pot boiled over again. As
good a field as ever stripped for a mile at Rand wide
went to the barrier, yet, oddly enough, the race was
a poor one. The imported grey was right up in
the first flight all through, and had the opposition at
his mercy any time from the half-mile, and at the
end was stoushed in a finish which was no better
than can he seen two or three times a week on
suburban courses. Running over a broken-up field
in the last 50 yards Sydney Damsel snapped the
race on the post. Lillvman has ridden many good
races. This year’s Doncaster was not one of them.
it was five to two the field and, showing how
the money came, 12 to one bar one, 15’s bar two
and 100's to five bar six. So long as Ike stood
the favorite at threes the cash rolled in copiously.
When he shortened the public went looking for
specs, such as Gambler’s Gold, Sir Ibex, Eusebius,
Wedge and George Graves. Drawing No. 5 at the
harrier, Chrysolaus jumped quickly off, and at the
end of a furlong was running five back from Molly’s
Robe, Renmon, Red Dome, Hand and Kenelis, with
Sydney Damsel on his tail. At the half-mile he
ran up behind Renmon, and at the turn closed on
Molly’s Robe. Sydney Damsel had in the mean-
while dropped back a couple, Renmon had vanished
Sir Ibex and Gambler’s Gold had come into the fight-
ing line. Mount Frisco had got out of the wreckage,
and Ifaud was going well. Rounding the bend
Chrysolaus had his head in front. He kept it there
to the leger, and with a furlong to go he was clear
of everything, galloping apparently well within
himself. tallyman stopped riding, and his mount
slowed down. But a spotted livery was streaking up
from behind, and 30 yards from the line tallyman
sensed danger. Simultaneously it arrived —on its
top gear. He took frenziedly to Chrysolaus, and the
horse jumped two strides in one. But it was too
late. The judge said by a neck. Molly’s Kobe ran
well to the last bit and then died away to nothing.
Gambler’s Gold hadn’t a kick left, and finished up
seventh just in front of Red Dome. Sir Ibex gave
no trouble on the run home. He was a long way
back at the end.
The two most disgusted men at Randwic-k
were Booth and John Wren. Wren threw in for
a tremendous stake on The Rover, and had the
horrifying experience of seeing his fancy begin after
everything else had bounded 40 or 50 yards towards
home.
Albert Wood took a risk with Kennaquliair in
the Cup. But it gave the big horse his biggest
win. The main thing was to be as far away from
Poitrel as possible when the straight was reached.
Kennaquliair, a much better battler in a crush
than Poitrel, was well up when the pace sharpened
at the six-furlong mark, and at half a mile he
had worked through to the first three. Near the
bend Wood saw an opening, hurried into it, and
bitting the front began to ride at top for the
line. Meanwhile Poitrel —-who had been knocked
back badly at seven ' furlongs, arid, after making
a run to the middle, had been pulled out of trouble
to the outside at the half-mile—got to the
top of the straight five lengths behind the leader.
The problem which faced Wood an<l Bracken, there-
fore, was whether or no Poitrel could give Kenna-
quhair 41b. and a big start in 21 furlongs. He
couldn’t. But the plucky little champion made a
desperate try, gaining yard by yard, and only just
failing to get up at the finish. The march stolen by
W ood round the turn had saved the situation. As it
was, another stride or so would have landed the
w.f.a. specialist in front, and in any case all the
“honors” of the race were his. Despite his bad
trip lie finished like a sprinter. They ran the
two miles in “22j,” a record gallop for Australia.
A feature of the betting was the solid wad wheeled
up for Artilleryman. Poitrel went out favorite at
fives. Kennaquliair retreated from tens to sevens.
Artilleryman, opening at tens, was backed down to
sixes. He and his fist. 21b. were fifth at the end
of a mile and a half, with Millietne, but gave no
trouble. Millieme, coming on, finished third, a
couple of lengths from Poitrel. Artilleryman wound
up eighth in a wcll-strung-out procession.
The track must have had a spring in it. Warspite,
a Fortafix mare, who started racing at pony meet-
ings, ran the Flying Handicap six furlongs in “111"
—a record for the course and Australia. The pre-
vious best was “112,” done by Aries, Fight Ever,
Poitrina, Rosedell and Balarang. Kennaquhair’s
“22:j” for the Chip was lsee. better than Prince
Randolph's record of four years ago, and nearly
3sec. better than Night-watch's time for the Mel-
bourne Gup in which Kennaquliair ran second. Tres-
sady tjueen took the Champagne Stakes in lmin.
13sec., only equalled once before in that race—bv
Wolaroi, in lfllti. Waitea, a colt by Achilles, did
better still in the second two-year-old event, making
the trip in “124.”
The Master Handicap at the Auckland
(M.L.) Autumn Meeting was a boil-over, as the
much-fancied_ pair, Tigritiya, and Ilymestra, wen!
down to Gazique. The Brighton Hurdles gave Mar-
coni another win; the Soult-Caller Ou gelding is
sweepitig all before him. Humbug had no serious
opposition in the Champagne Stakes, and the Aus-
tralian-bred Geoffrey was first past the post in (he
Onslow Stakes for two-year-olds.
* * * *
Molly’s Robe’s brother Lord Syce won the
Novice on the first day of the Q.T.C. Easter Meeting.
I lie big race, the Hendra Handicap (14 mile), was
a very open-betting event on account of the quality
engaged. Ihe favorite Rita R. bad a length to
spare at the finish. Leverrier (imp.), who lias
not met with much success to date but was well
looked after by the handicapper, was an also-ran.
“0.K.” : Remembering that Carbine, as a
three-year-old, won the Sydney Cup with fist, up,
and that Wallace did
likewise under the
burden of Bst. 121 b.,
giving two ; stone to the
Other placed horses, one
would have said that
Artilleryman was a
most promising candi-
date at fist. 211). but
for his swollen hock.
A troublesome leg at
t h i s comparatively
early stage of bis
career suggests that
Artilleryman's days will
not be long on the turf.
It hasn’t stopped the
brilliant galloper from
winning three or four
w.f.a. races in eanital
style, but it must have
originated in some
weakness that may
easily become serious.
LES McGOUGH,
who has been Tas-
mania’s tennis
champion for 15
years.
.VS.W. put a handy and youthful team
into the Sydney C. C. field against Bananaland.
Skipper Collins set his men a good example in the
way of bright cricket, and , they followed it. Punch
and King, played with particular attractiveness
despite the Northerners’ keen fielding. The Q. bowl-
ing was below inter-State standard, but the team's
batting was very free in the first innings. Ayres
and Anderson did best with the ball. Hartigan
was displaying all his old cunning with the bat
when he was run out, and Oxenham is as hard as
ever to shift. Sheppard is the visitors’ star bat,
though he failed on this occasion. His style i:'
dashing, being reminiscent of “Plum” Warner in
spots. Farquhar still suffers from nervousness. The
smashing defeat sustained by the visitors (they went
down by an innings and 157 runs) was hardly a fair
test of their form. In their second innings on
Monday they found Trenerrv at his best. He was
almost unplayable, and Asher was in much the same
mood. The side faded out for a total of S 3, the
only man who made a stand being Oxenham. tie
took 75 minutes to amass 38.
The Rose Bay (Sydney) Golf Club,
which is about to spend £30,000 on its club-house,
started in a very small way. It was founded 15
years ago by “Ted” Simpson, Lachlan Beaton and
one or two others. The links were made from
Chinese gardens and scrub,
and the members kept
their clubs in a diminutive
shanty about a mile to the
south-west of the present
site. The other day when
the committee made its
demand members rushed it
with large cheques. Double
the stipulated sum could
have been acquired, and
the only difficulty that
presented itself was the
equitable apportioning of
the shares. The dining-
room is to.be enlarged and
the lounge nearly doubled
in size. Thirty new bed-
rooms will be added ; and
the servants’ quarters arc
to be entirely rebuilt and
brought up to date. This
club already shares with
the Australian Club the
reputation of being the
most comfortable place of
the sort for residential
purposes in Australia.
What it will be when it
is £30,000 better can
only he dreamed about.
GEORGE M.
MUNRO,
Secretary Vic. Bowl-
ing Association and
Sec. Australian Rowl-
ing Council.
C. B. rry and F. S. Jackson, whom
Frank Tredale wants to see in the next English Test
XI, are respectively 48 and 50.' Both of them are
out of their old County teams. Fry took the field
once last year. He made 10 for a side which was
well licked by a Dominions XI at Lords. Jackson
.got together a side to play a P. F. Warner XI for
charity, but he didn't appear himself. He wasn’t
well enough. The great Yorkshire stylist hasn't
figured in big cricket for years. Neither of these
old-time wonders would be an attraction, even
assuming they were able to stand the strain of
Test cricket. Modern Australia wants to see Eng-
land’s Gregorys, not its Nobles.
*.* * *
“Pick”: It was the final for the Tilba
District Cricket Association’s trophy (South Coast,
N.S.W.). Narooma, playing against Central Tilba,
had made 135 runs in their second innings,
and, with three- wickets to fall, required two
more runs to win glory and the trophy. One
of the batsmen, attempting a run, balked, and
struggled into his crease just as a fielder pelted
down his wicket. The umpire gave him the benefit
of the doubt, and set about rearranging the stumps.
Then the batsmen, noticing the unattended leather
lying afield, ran two runs, and fierce argument fol-
lowed as to whether the double flutter should be
recorded, one umpire claiming the ball was dead,
the other that it was very much alive. The ball
had nothing to say. But when Central Tilba’s
trundler did the hat trick with his next three shies
the row became heated enough to make the Pacific
steam. Which won, anyhow?
* * ■* *
News of what is supposed to he the first
parrot killed at cricket comes from Teetree Gully
(S.A.). The bird was sitting in a gum-tree watch-
ing the local team bat, when a sixer came its wav
and killed it instantly.
George Dunn, an Englishman, from Maori-,
land, didn’t long hold the veteran Checkett’s place
as custodian of the Adelaide Oval. He has resigned,
leaving about the best billet of the sort in Aus-
tralia open.
Sam Anderson, an abo. who plays with
the Bungawalbyn (N.S.W.) cricket team, has a good
season’s performance to his credit. Playing in the
Richmond River district competition he has gone in
19 times and made 1458 runs. His highest was 261
n.o. He has carried his hat seven times and knocked
up nine centuries.
* * * ■ *
Adelaide cricket has ended, as had for
some time seemed likely, with East Torrens on top.
Sturt, who were ranking next, had the curious
experience of a tie with Glenelg, at 182, in the final
round, where also East Torrens liad to he content
with a moral victory over Adelaide—426 for three
Wickets (declared) against 181 for six wickets; on
the same day University (with Steele, Jose and both
Pellevvs) slumped horribly for 131 against Port
Adelaide. In the final effort of the Torrens men,
their two big guns both came off. Townsend, the
left-handed slogger, made 98, and Arthur Richard-
son 210 not out, the highest score of the season in
club cricket, though G. E. Pellew easily beat it in
the last match against l ie.
Gar Hone, son of Adelaide’s Dr. Hone,
established a record for S. Alls, this season bv being
selected to practise for both inter-State tennis and
cricket. Though this year he has neglected tennis
to play cricket for Adelaide Uni., ho was thought
good enough to represent his State in the recent
tennis match against Vic. The youth (he is not
yet out of his teens) is also a fine footballer, and
can throw a cricket ball further than anyone else
in S. Aus.
G. L. Wilson, who died the other day at
St. Kilda (Vie.) at 52, was a Scotch College boy who
went to Oxford, and in 1890-91 won his blue in
both cricket and football. lie played afterwards
for Melbourne Club, but his best batting perform-
ances were in England, where in ’93 he and G. Beaii,
playing for Sussex v. Gloucester, scored 217 for
the first wicket.
Digger Evans had an easy win over
Jamito at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. The
Digger was at his best and Janiito at his wild
and whirling worst. The latter’s style suits the
Digger almost as well as the Digger’s does siil
Godfrey. For 20 uproarious rounds the colored youth
swung and charged, and smote downwards and
upwards, and during most of the time Evans was
somewhere else when the blow arrived. As n
expended its force upon the atmosphere Evans
mostly stepped in and banged the enemy with his
right. Few questioned the decision of Joe Wallis
at the finish.
* * if *
Harold Hardwick, just, appointed swim-
ming instructor to the \. S. Wales State School
children, has a remarkable record. He was chain
pion schoolboy athlete at Fort-street, and has
annexed 10 State, three Australian, one English and
one British Empire swimming championships, besides
being a member of the Australasian team of swim-
mers which won the 800-metres Olympic swimming
championship in 1912, at Stockholm, in the worldV
record time of lOniin. 11 l-ssec. As a boxer lie
won the championship of the British Empire and
the Army championship. He is also a very fine
Rugby Union forward, in which position he played
for Eastern Suburbs. And, finally, he is as modest
as he is efficient; and at Aldershot recently lie was
handed a cup at the end of the military athletic
competitions in token of it. The cup went to the
contestant who, in the opinion of the rest, was the
best sportsman present. The State gets all these
qualifications for £250 p.a.
* * * #
On form Sid Godfrey should have over-
whelmed Jack Green at Sydney Stadium on Mondav
night. Evans gave Green a solid licking, and God-
frey was the Digger’s master during the whole of
their brief ring-sojourn together. But the form of
Pugs, is almost as baffling as that of horses.
Although Green had gone out of his clan to meet
Evans’s conqueror (he was Bst. 71b. as against his
opponent’s 9st.), yet he never looked like being
either knocked or beaten. His win at the end of
20 rounds was a triumph of highly-finished orthodoN
boxing over strength, weight and a stiff punch.
* •> -'/! , X .
“15-30” : Probably the. U'.S. will win the
right to tackle Australia for the next Davis Cup.
The Yanks are making tremendous preparations, and
will soon sort out a team from the 10 ranking
players of the 1919 season and give them elaborate
dress-rehearsals. It is expected that the final selei-
fion will include at least two of the following four:
Tilden and Murray, of Philadelphia, Norris Williams
of Boston, and young William Johnston, the Cali-
fornian genius. If he comes over, Johnston will
probably most attract the lovers of fine tennis. Ho
is active as 10 cats, excels in surprise shots, and
has some of that uncanny anticipation which long
ago put Norman Brookes in a class by himself.
The English clergyman who recently
uttered the cry “God save beer!” showed an astute
social sense. His point was that the rich can get
beer (or any other sort of liquor) under prohibi-
tion ; and that the beerless toilers’ knowledge of
the fact is likely to lead to class hatred. The
same applies to gambling. Everyone in Australia
knows that it goes on unchecked in the big clubs
Yet every week batches of 50 to 60 two-uppers are
presented at police-courts and charged with being
members of “schools.’’ The “schools’’ are conse-
quently embittered against the clubs; and no
wonder, seeing that the magistrate who fines the
“school” members for playing two-up is himself
often an habitual gambler at bridge or poker in
his club.
Bad handicapping ruined the Solomon
(up swimming race at Sydney on Saturday. .1.
O Connor (Sydney), from the 74scc. mark, won in
3min. 3Gsec. : and O. Griffiths (12see.) spoiled the
100yds. handicap by touching first in GSsee. The
scratch men would have had to smash the world’s
record to win.
The Australian bowls carnival com-
menced at Sydney on Saturday, when Victoria
obliterated Queensland by 133 to 100. The
Southerners were “up” in four rinks out of five.
Queensland invited its hiding by arriving with three
men short. The lost souls were understood to have
gone to Randwick.
• Herald (Manly) added another
decoration to his costume on Saturday: he took the
A.I.F. 100yds. championship from H.‘ Hay (Manlv)
and E. O. Fox (North Sydney) in 59 2-ssec. Herald
lias been picked for the Olympic games trip as the
best sprinter the Ma State owns.
* * * *
Alan Penfold, the 15-year-old Manlyite,
won the 50yds. championship of the Northern
Suburbs (Sydney) in 27 l-ssec. last week. Keith
Kirkland picked up the 440yds. title at the same
meeting m smin. 34 3-ssec., which is 12 4-ssec. off
the previous best.
* * * *
Eighteen lined up for the 10-mile Aus-
nan an cycling championship at Sydney last week,
but smashes and punctures caused many to drop out
-—amongst them Bob Spears. His chain broke seven
laps from the finish. Alf Grenda won bv a length
from Wells, Papworth and Walker. There were un-
savory features about the event. Ernie Ohrt
(America) took five laps instead of the regulation
tour for a puncture, and refused to leave the track
when ordered. The referee thereupon wined him
out ior a month. Later the penalty was altered to
a ™ . f °* y”> which the League of Wheelmen
officials, getting their backs up, resigned.
I Jie popular ITenley-to-Grange swim, off
the Adelaide beaches, attracted about 50 starters
including five girls. As usual, the winner was a
man- with a long start, 11. J. Edwards, Bmin., -who
took 34nun. 21sec. The second man, H. A. Calnan,
made the fastest time, SOmin. 40sec. The distant.
i- a mile and 350yds., and the sea was fairlv
smooth. The first woman to finish, Miss McKee,
took 39nnn. 58sec.
THE HOMING PUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
“Chrysolaus, the red-hot favorite for the Doncaster
Handicap, was beaten by a short neck after seeming
to have the race won. A loud roar, almost a scream
of anguish, went up when Sydney Damsel swooped
down on the handsome grey at a moment when many
thousands of people were feeling for their tickets to
collect their money.” —Sydney Sun.
News Department:
lie wore a sportsman’s suit of grey
And glasses round his neck,
But he had had a rotten day—
The “cert” had come to wreck.
His eyes were hard. Like one accurst,
He was a man to shun,
Because the Damsel flashed home first
At thirty-three to one.
Goon-AnvicE Department: -
Load not your coin on four strange legs
Nor let your fortune run,
For he who bets on horses begs
Before his race is done.
Let not Hope lead you to the course
Where punters suffer pain;
Read naught about the speeding horse
And do not dream of gain.
Rescue League Chorus:
lie ivore a sportsman’s suit of grey;
Of troubles he’d a peck;
flis glasses seemed, that bitter day,
A millstone round his neck.
N'.S.W.
FOE.


Health is the Greatest of
all Possessions.
h m
ĥ m
m
From the earliest ages man has taken pride in his bodily
welfare and development, it can be acquired by regular
and efficient Physical Culture Exercises. Learn now to
improve your body.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen and unseen
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that drive
a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the system
—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling waste
tissue, building up new muscle, benefiting every part of
your body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copy of my booklet, “Health and Strength
from Self-culture.” It tells about my health-giving exer-
cises and methods, terms, etc. Send three penny stamps
for postage. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement. I’ll know what you mean.
REG.L . (‘Snowy’) BAKER,
The All-Round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,
230 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
y
The Hall Mark
of Quality
m
Ail Over the World
MAKES OLD RAZORS
SHAVE LIKE NEW.
©0
co
oc
A sharp Razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself, yet
how to keep it sharp,
with tons'll beards has
always been the great
obstacle, for the average
man does not know how to set cr
sharpen a Razor. The simple vet
exnedient PERFORATED HONK
solves the question permanently;
it provides a lifetime of easy
shaving for a small outlay—only
15/-, or post free 5/6. TRY THE
PERFORATED HONE; if it
doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 5/6 from
The Perforated Hone Co,,
Dept. 11—123 Sussex Street, SYDNEY,
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAn ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 (1.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
I
r**e
*****
'
*•*
- c&e
**
■■ =<
Screens and Perforated Plates
for Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hok «p Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
%k‘,hte a Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WALES—Arthur Leplastrier & Co., 'Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Geo. I*. Harris, Scart'e & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide
NEW ZEALAND—BIair, Reed & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
MALAY STATES, .JAVA—Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE Xo. 20.
Kruses
1 piUid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
A Really
WARM
Coat
is an essential item in every
man’s Winter Equipment.
YOU will want one. The
Best Time to Buy it is now,
and the Garment to Select
is the one here shown.
Texture, Design and Price
will absolutely meet your
needs.
Tasmanian
Frieze,
75|-
Freight Paid.
The Material in. which it is
made is a Black Frieze of Tas-
manian manufacture, which will
proof you againjst the Lowest
Temperature amil the Keenest
Winds of Winter, and at the
same time give seasons of faith-
ful service. The Coat is a genuine Tailor-made,
featuring Belt all wound or Belted Back only, and
may be obtained ill the Style Shown or Single-
Breasted with Raglan Sleeve. For Honest VALUE
at a Low ' Price ! it stands alone
amongst available Coat Investments.
Post Your Order TO-DAY.
mm
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
‘Where Satisfaction is Guaranteed,’ Flinders Street, Melbourne.


TOBACCO
Farmer's “Victoria
House' Smoking
Mixture; a medium,
long-burning blend
of rare tobaccos,
packed exclusively
for Farmer’s.
J-lb. tin 3/-
i— lb. tin 6/-
11b 11/9
FARTvCEIUS
'Dksf P/ore foe /non.
Need*
~ll\ c S'jvi’e for Men
J
©
CHERODTS
Alhambra Manila
Cheroots, made in
Manila from the
highest grade leaf.
Very special value.
, Small size, 25/- per
100; Heavy Weights,
32/6 per 100: Extra
Heavy eights,
box of 50 22/6
FARMERS
'Vha Sioco foclvien-
SECOND PART -NOW READY
of H. G WELLS’S Popular New Production,
“The Outline of History.”
Complete in 20 Fortnightly Parts. 1/6 per part. The first part of this interest-
ing work has been well received, and now THE SECOND PART IS READY,
and proves to be of a more engrossing nature still. The Topics of this Part are:
“THE AGE OF MAMMALS,”
“THE MAKING OF MAN,” and
“NEOLITHIC MAN IN EUROPE.”
Each Part is Forcefully Illustrated, showing SPECIES and COMPARI-
SONS of RACES, TRIBES, ANIMALS, etc.
9d. per week
Judging from the ready sale of
the first part of “THE OUT-
LINE OF HISTORY" the
9 L per week
demand for the following parts will undoubtedly be so great as to render it very
necessary to PLACE YOUR ORDER WITH ' YOUR BOOKSELLER, and so
prevent disappointment.
Wholesale—GOßDON & GOTCH (Australasia) Limited.
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rusr [?]
Corsets
Birdwood gave a talk at the meeting of
the Friendly Union of Soldiers' Wives and
Mothers in the Masonic Hall. Lady Bird-
wood and daughter Nancy came with him.
Mrs. President Hughes, in a dove-colored
suit, was the chairwoman. Mrs. Sellheim
and Mrs. Chauvel received the party and
loaded with bouquets. Mrs. Shuter
and Mrs. Knox Knight established them-
selves at a secretarial table and enrolled
new. members. Soldiers’ wives brought the
family along and sat baby in the sawdust
on the floor when tea was handed round.
(The Masonic Hall is now a haunt of jazzers,
and the precious boards had been dusted
for preservation._) Youngsters ' were clam-
bering everywhere, and the mothers were
Hushed with their efforts to keep the babies
within reach and still give an ear to Birdy’s
advice. Birdwood talked like a father. He
counselled patience among the soldiers’
wives. They had troubles, he said, about
back pay, etc., but the French wives and
mothers had bigger ones. The talk was
interrupted by a loud smack, a shrill voice
and a wail from a small Digger who had
stormed a plate of cakes. Smears of jam
and cake crumbs enlivened some of the
frocking. Lady Birdwood escaped intact ; n
her blue-spotted voile, and daughter Nancy’s
washtub linen was all right.
President Sirs. Alec Landale and com-
mittee of the local branch of the Victoria
League hostessed an afternoon party to the
Birdwood lady, who brought her married
daughter, Mrs. Colin Craig. The guest of
honor wore champagne-colored channelise
draperies with a flower-wreathed hat. Mrs..
Landale, who flew red, white and blue rib-
bons from her black-chiffoned chest, handed
the lady the usual bouquet. All the Best
rolled up. The company included Mrs.
Fred Payne, with whom Lady Birdwood and
daughter sheltered for a day or two.
In the name of charity, listen to this!
The Women’s Hospital Committee decided
to arrange a ball at which it was expected
the Prince would kick his feet in person.
Mrs. Billy Hughes said she’d see to that.
But now a self-styled Citizens’ Committee
butts in and says it is managing this show
and on a vaster scale than the Hospital
ladies intended. Apparently it will bring
in more shekels to the Hospital; hut that’s
a mere side-line. The important point is
that it will give two or three people who
are struggling desperately for “recognition”
a leg-in.
D’Arcy Addison is having a hard row to
hoe in Hobart with his Prince preparations.
The City Hall holds only 700 and D’Arcy
has to cram over 3000 into it. His bril-
liant idea is to have the 3000 walk in twos
down the City Hall, bow, and pass out again
by side doors into the street. In this way
not only the leading 3000 but all the fringe
could be put through the social sieve. But
the Mayor w'on’t give his consent, and
D’Arcy is cajoling and storming in turns.
The Lee dame has moved her nest from
the country to Hobart. She has had a ner-
vous breakdown, but intends to be w'ithin
easy reach of the Prince festivities.
Robert Beggs. of the vast Beggs family
which has raised sheep in the Western Dis-
trict from time immemorial, has sold Hop-
kins Hill to Neil Calvert, of Dreeite. The
Beggs holdings, though they are extensive,
don’t loom so very large on a land-map;
hut on international reputation has beer-
established by Robert and the pure-merino
men of his ancestry. He retains the stud
flock which has brought him so much cash
and kudos.
Sdotchbyterian-parson David Millar, of
Armadale, has joined the mob of sky-pilots
making a post-war rush for Britain to give
poor nerves a building-up. Mrs. Millar, who
goes with him, is an aunt of the Grey-
Egerton lady and a daughter of the late
Tom Dowling, the patriarch of Jellalabad.
Mrs. Millar’s sister, the widow' Cumming,
was made a great-grandmother by the arrival
of the Reggie Powers’ recent infant.
Charles P. Smith, of the Argus, lost his
young flying-corps brother Vincent last
month. The youth, who wore the M.S.M.,
got a crack from a propeller-blade in France ;
and, though a deferred operation took place
at Caulfield Military Hospital, the good sol-
dier and good sport went out to it in the
end.
The Tom Murdochs blew in here from
Hobart on their way to Sydney for the
races. Or, rather, hubby has been attending
a well-timed Harbor Authorities Conference
in Sydney, and his froeky wife has followed
like a meteor with a comet-tail of Saratogas.
They go on to brother’s sheep-run, Glenyal-
lock, before returning to the Apple Isle.
General Bridges’s widow is off w’ith elder
daughter Dorothy to stay with her son Noel,
who has a civil-engineering billet in the
Malay States. He married a Scottish girl
there years ago. Younger daughter “Bab-
bie,” who clerked at Victoria Barracks dur-
ing the latter part of the war, was to have
gone with her mother, but accepted a tempt-
ing offer to manage a fashionable chiffonery
and handed her steamer ticket to sister
Dorothy
Help is urgently wanted for the Horn-
brook Free Kindergarten. A jumble sale
is projected, and anyone who has old clothes,
pictures, flak-irons, diamonds, kitchen things
or motor-cars can make good use of them
by sending them to Miss Hetherington,
Waiora-road, Armadale.
There is a battle going on with the Gov-
ernment that seems to show that the
Neglected Children’s Home is true to label.
Nurses and committee-women give heart-
rending accounts of the pitiful condition of
the children and the big death-rate. The
Government is accused of having too limited
a state. A nurse associated with the Home
says that at night one nurse has to look after
SO children, of from 12 months to 10 years,
many of them weak and ill. Until the war
came it was the practice to board out chil-
dren. The rising cost of living brought
down the number of foster-mothers offering
to take charge, so the Home became over-
crowded. More money and more help thus
became urgently needed. This was not forth-
coming: hence the present piercing appeals
to the Government.
Last week Capt. Frank Lord, M.C., M.M.,
married Phoebe Thorpe, a charming Aus-
tralian girl. The bridegroom is a young
Australian with a glittering war record.
Enlisting at 20 as a gunner, he spent eight
months on Gallipoli
and later went to
France, where he
won the Military
Cross and received
his commission. In
1918 lie volunteered
for special duty, and
was one of Dunster-
ville’s tiny force
(100 officers and 250
sergeants) which
was given the job of
organising and hold-
ing a line from Bag-
dad to the Caspian.
Dunsterville and his
men found very little
good fighting
material, s o small
groups had to hold
important strategic posts "with only the
wireless to bridge gaps of 100 miles. ‘ Once
the Shah of Persia gave a group of 60 formal
leave to get out of his country. And the
dauntless 60 smiled and stayed where they
were! Mrs. Frank Lord should feel quite
safe from burglars with “one of the Dunster-
villes” about the house.
Adelaide runs off the week’s film:—
The flying Smiths have been the keynote of our
song; they have been welcomed and feted to an
extent that would make soured misanthropes or
unbearable egotists of anyone not blessed with their
cheeriness and modesty. They lunched with the
A.R.O. committee at Victoria Park or. Saturday,
where the Lieut.-Governor and Sir Henry Hall were
their fellow-guests, and from there Ross motored to
Glenelg, where he laid the foundation-stone of the
St. Peter’s Church Memorial Chapel. On Sunday
they lunched with the Murrays at Marble Hill. On
Monday they paid a visit to their old college
(Queen’s, in North Adelaide), auctioned a flag for
the Boy Scouts’ Appeal from Parliament House steps,
raking in nearly £lOOO, and took tea with the
Mayoress.
Another item was a flight to Port Adelaide and
the seaside suburbs with mother and dad as passen-
gers. Hurley was strapped to the top plane with
his camera, so that he could cinematograph our chess-
board city. Mrs. Smith has usually been close-by
her sons —her quiet pride in them is as modest as
the boys’ own lack of self-consciousness. The Boy
Scout flag, by the way, fell to Mrs. H. Bickford
for £650.
Mrs. Abraham Shannon and daughter Eileen are
back from England. They went there in 1913, and
August, ’l4, found them plunged into war-work. Miss
Shannon did hospital . duty in both England and
France.
Lady Weigall has cabled her willingness to be
president of the Women’s War Memorial Fund, which
is mounting towards the £4OOO required.
South Aus. has dealt an unkind blow at the
modern woman. As an experiment a smoking car-
riage on the Adelaide-to-Strathalbyn line wa-
labelled “Men Only.” It was so much appreciated
that the Commissioner of Hallways announces the
extension of the idea to all long-distance trains.
“Adelaide for culture”; but when the other day
there was a fire in which seven people were so
burned that six of them died, it woke up to the
knowledge that all it possessed in the way' of first-
aid appliances was an antiquated one-horse police
ambulance. On this occasion even this leisurely vehicle
was not to be bad, so the victims lrad to be wrapped
in blankets and conveyed to the hospital in trollies
and cabs. When a medical man a couple of days
later stated that had the unfortunate people been con-
veyed to the hospital more expeditiously there would
have been a chance in two instances of saving their
lives, a wild howl arose, and Adelaide will buy a
motor-ambulanee or two now.
Susie Pender, who belongs to a branch
of an old Western District family now
settled at Struan House, Narracoorte
(S.A.), has said “Certainly” to Geoff, the
Rutter Clarkes’ eldest lad. Mrs. Clarke
was a Sargood. so there will be plenty of
cash on both sides.
When Hugh Campbell, M.L.A., one of the
Ilonoraries in the Lawson team, shaved off
his beard the first hint was obtained that he
contemplated a second matrimonial plunge.
He is a retired Portland storekeeper and has
a grown-up family—two of whom served as
soldiers in the war—by his first marriage.
She is said to be a nurse whose skill and
kindness were an anodyne on more than one
occasion when sickness and death disturbed
the estimable Campbell household.
Old-time pals of Tom Roberts have oeen
recalling his old name of “Bulldog.” He
took kindly to it. and some of his earlier
paintings are signed with a bulldog with
“Torn Roberts” on the collar.
On the day last week that old “Bulldog”
opened his show he bagged close on £ 1000
before he had time to straighten his lavender
tie. The Gallery reserved two pictures right
away. Enid Derham got in early. Mrs.
W. O. Barrett bought a beautiful nude, and
wondered at the effect of introducing it to
her household of sons, who range from one
year to 25. Visitors trooped up the double-
flight of stairs to the Athenamm Hall, and
there was a general sigh of satisfaction
among the artistic. Here' were balance, and
honest work and the peace of harmony.
Streeton pervaded the show. He has sacri-
ficed his Vandyk beard, has a limp, and looks
fatly prosperous.
Bertha Merfield is to have a show at.
Anthony Horderns’ in Sydney on May 11.
She is an exponent of decorative art, and
paints huge canvases for interiors. Tier
lovely gum-trees wave in screens that are
mounted in Australian woods, and she has
panels for the decoration of halls and rooms.
The Upper Athenaeum Hall, sacred to
artists’ shows and Christian Science meet-
ings, has had its face w r ashed. The walls
have been newly tinted. The color is what
is known locally as Bernard Hall’s flesh
color —a greenery-yellery sallowness. Some
of the artists are howling because the job
was not done in the clear ivory tint that is
now fashionable for London art-show walls.
Fiddler Ernest Toy, long time of Mel-
bourne, is now waving his soulful baekhair
before the violin-students at the Conserva-
tory of Music, Louisville (U.S.'h the Ken-
tucky village where the blue-grass sports
keep* their racing-stables. Toy used to be
a pupil of Charles Manby, inventor of that
strange instrument the fretted violin.
Napoleon Boffard, who was an identity
in Melbourne’s musical world long before
Walter Kirby grew a second chin, ' seems
to have cause for further enlargement of
his chest. A Land of Song colt has been
named Bouffard. If the thin, sweet warble
of Nap. be not accountable for the naming
of that colt —well, the amiable songster
needn’t disabuse his mind. It sounds as
though a compliment was intended.
Prof. Baldwin
Spencer i s leaving
the University after
33 yea r s’ work
there. He has re-
signed his Chair of
Biology, and past
and present students
gave him a brave
testimonial a t the
end of last month in
their old lecture-
room. The testimonial
will be used to estab-
lish a study prize in
the Professor’s
favorite subject.
Spencer has
roamed Australia to
its innermost wilds.
Ceutralia had a fas-
cination for him. He would take a hand-
ful of ardent students and camping outfit,
and on his return materialise some weird
prehistoric animal from a couple of bones.
Every past student of biology at our Uni-
versity carries a vivid impression of
Spencer’s Bridge. The Prof, always visu-
alised a land bridge that linked up the Old
World and the New. (Perhaps one should
say the Old World with the Older, since
Australia is, geologically, the grandfather
of continents.) Now at 60 he intends tak-
ing his vast store of Australian knowledge
to London and its scientists. He will be
tremendously missed here. For besides his
leaning to dry bones he had a nice taste
in the modern arts. He owned the most
comprehensive collection of work's by Aus-
tralian artists, and recently put some tons
of the collection under the hammer. But he
carries away the gems along with tie
nucleus of another ultra-modern lot. The
recent portrait herewith is by Alice Mills.
Violet Somerset, a familiar little Mel-
bourne contralto, did well in Honolulu.
Every concert she gave was crowded and
local critics waxed lyrical about her singing.
Jessie Masson was accompanist. Some re-
citals were , given at Judge Hatch’s to a
select 200 or so. Judge Hatch’s place
Sans Souei, at Waikiki—is an ideal spot and
is famous because Robert Louis Stevenson
spent many moons and much ink there. The
Oonservatorium at Honolulu made an offer
to Violet to stay and join its staff; but the
young person had a home-call and will be
back in Australia this month.
Alfred Buchanan, who aforetime toiled for
the Age and between engagements wrote
novels, eased off' later to study law; and
then, having been admitted to the Bar, went
into the solitude of the Darling Downs to
read more law. Now he has come south
again and gone at last among those who
wait for briefs in Selborne Chambers. If
knowledge both of law and of the world will
bring them, he won’t have to wait long.
The announcement of a rival prima donnu
in a part hitherto restricted to another prima
donna of the J.C.W. Grand Opera Co. is said
to have made the original artist very mad in-
deed. She tore down the notice when it
was posted in the theatre, and ultimately
over-ruled the proposal to give the other girl
a show. Moreover, she vetoed the mana-
gerial intention to produce this younger lady
in a commanding name part. You don't
need to look outside the Australian-speaking
race for grand operatic jealousies and furious
professional tantrums.
Poor little Rob Thomas is dead. Rob and
his brother were the original Pierrots of St.
Kilda. Fifteen years ago, when they
started, there was not a show on beach or
esplanade. The Pierrots planted a covered
stand on the sands and patrons sat around
on; the hummocks and dropped thrippenees
and collar-buttons into the collection-box.
Soon a few benches were added and exclu-
sive patrons reserved these seats. A barri-
cade with a gate was the next move and
small boys had to peep though the cracks.
Now the Pierrots are established in a palace
of their own on the original stand, and two
cycles of lovers and small boys count them
as their own. Rob’s partner-brother
went out of active service some years ago.
His widow is a sister of James, of the Dun-
lop Rubber Co.; and there is a small daugh-
ter, Gwynneth.
Muriel Starr’s trouble was goitre. She
is recovering from the operation at Mount
Saint Evins Hospital, and will apparently
be quite tit and well to leave for England
at the end of April.
A Stage v. Press cricket debate, the first
for many years, drew a good house to the
M.C.C. on Thursday, Prime Minister Hughes,
Donald Mackinnon and a trio of eminent
Judges sharing the front stalls with a pic-
turesque collection of footlights charmers.
Although the discussion was pronounced a
draw, the mummers, captained by Leslie
Holland, had easily the best of the play. A
luncheon, supplied by the inky wayfarers, was
presided over by Lionel Biggs, chief-of-staff
of the Age and a lay canon in his spare time;
and Hughes, in the course of a speech devoid
of references to the demon Bolshevism, ex-
plained that during a misspent life he had
earned coin from both press and stage, the
latter as a .super, when he “had the felle'ty
of feeling George Rignold walk on his
stomach.”
From the pre-revolution letter of an Aus-
tralian girl who was engaged to a German
woolbuyer before the war and has since gone
to that convulsed country to marry him
We are to be married in the town hall and then
in the church. The banns hang in a public place
for two weeks. I only hope my husband-to-be will
be able to do his new work, which is very different
from wool. In wool there is .nothing doing at pre-
sent : exchange is so against Germany that she
cannot buy raw- material. The country is just
over-run with Americans and English buying Ger-
man goods. The houses have orders for years ahead;
but there is lots of stuff they cannot make. For
a. time mother and I stayed in the best hotel here,
and as we were foreigners we had to pay 100 per
cent, more than German guests: exchange is so
against Germany that where a man formerly got
20 marks for £1 lie now gets 200. And haven’t
we just got to be careful of our clothes! At
present a man’s suit costs from £5O to £75! I
can see that my trousseau will have to go a long-
way.
Prohibition exists in one Melbourne enter-
tainment house, but only as applied to ice-
cream. Tait’s Auditorium, let at present
for movies, always displays large notices
forbidding anyone to take the cold stuff into
the building. Dunno why, unless it’s a ques-
tion of “carrrpets,” as Flo Young’s Persian
used to call them in “Delphine.”
Sculptor Web Gilbert has left Egypt and
gone back to England to collect his family—
including the twins —before returning to
Australia. Louis McCubbin, who was work-
ing with Gilbert in Egypt, is bolting home
direct. He is filled with the nostalgia that
attacks all wandering sons and daughters of
Australia.


yST’7
DEWAR
m
k
o
.
**; /* * 1
iiifii
\Sr^;
t
i....
>*
*/
PfISPSSIBI
/ ‘
Copyright.
Scottbfr cTtj/pe of
tfve (Eentun^.
DEWAR’S
A Scottish Gentleman of the Eighteenth Century, and another
fine product of the period —Dewar’s Whisky. Proved, trusted,
renowned, the drink of our forefathers is our drink to-day
—evolved into the cosmopolitan beverage of the world.
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, L™" Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth & London


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE {
Charles Heidsieck
miiiii
To H.M.
King
George V
cs:v)%
Reims I
(sfjf «•>**'|
w
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
BENBAR
VIBRATOR
POINTS
were specially manufactured—locally
—to provide a means of escape for the
Ford owner from those petty and
irritating annoyances caused through
the fitting of inferior imported Vibra-
tor Points.
Benbar Points will overcome those
difficulties, besides giving long and
uniform service.
Tour dealer stocks them.
Bennett SBarkell Limited
"The Traders’ Service House,"
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address—
"BENßAß,” SYDNEY.
are sold with a guarantee
which says that if the
finger tips wear out, before
gloves have been washed or
have given reasonable wear
they will be replaced free
of charge.—Ask your draper
for Vanity Fair Mlk Gloves
—the gloves of qu&Jity.
V.F.2
1
WE ADORN YOU.
In the charming range of Gowns and
Tailor Suits contrived by Shave will be
found, in outstanding degree, that feature
so much sought after—distinction; and
this our master-tailors accomplish with-
out the trials of fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
CENTREWAY.
MELBOURNE.
A WOMANS
LETTER
A day had slipped back from midsummer
to greet the Easter feeling that flowered at
Randwick on Saturday. So it came to pass
that woman’s silkiest hose and swankiest
footwear peeped in and out from petticoats
;>f the filmiest lace and georgette, as well as
from the severely-tailored autumn skirt that
hinted at no space for a petticoat beneath it
at all. Cool, wide-leafed hats under sun-
shades all ivory handles and ribs and rich
brocades, oftentimes carrying a lush growth
of silk fringe, after the style of the carriage
umbrella beloved by the Early Victorian
belles, vied with the close-fitting Tam shapes
that hold female Sydney enthralled by the
thread of their alluring tassels. Saturday’s
sun proved that Chanticleer-feathered head-
gear can be worn with impunity only by
her of the perfect nose and creamy coloring.
One wearer of the skull-fitting mode, who had
a florid complexion'and an apparently bone-
less nose, is the moral on which this warning
is hung.
The mannequin show was not the over-
powering affair that had threatened. Pity
for the publicity man’s purposes that the
wearing of sandwich-boards is incompatible
with the showing-off of the cut of a gown!
The only costume that hit the eye was a
henna cloth, its perfectly-fitting top-dock
showing a whole flight of birds embroidered
upon it. A skirt swathed to the ankles fol-
lowed, a cavalier cloak lined with old gold
was slung across the shoulders, and a close-
fitting collar that reached to the chin in
front and snuggled closely to the tips of the
ears can only be compared to the chain-mail
collar of a Crusader. The skirt had
pouched-out pockets lined with old gold ; a
close-fitting hat supported a plume that
drooped from its crown to the precise point
where its wearer’s throat melted into her
shoulder-blade.
The stands were overflowing, for never
has there been a more crowded Randwick,
and between races they disgorged such a
chromatic display as will give the old-fash-
ioned rainbow something to think about.
Birdwood had drawn the Diggers like a mag-
net and there was a great display of khaki.
He himself wandered about, now and then
stopping to talk to one of liis boys. The
Birdwood lady, looking frail in shell pink,
walked in the lee of Dame Margaret, whose
cream tailorings added another foot, so it
seemed, to her height. Lady Helen, as usual,
('hose a unique shade for her georgette frock.
This time it had a close resemblance to the
purple in evidence at a Vatican lev€e. The
F. G. Waleys sat among the ’ cocked hats,
she tailored in black and white checks and
wearing a black velvet Tam. Mrs. Glossop
and the Maitland lady were also within
the vice-regal barrier, the first looking hand-
some in navy and white foulard, and the
second with blue frills on a nigger-brown
foundation. The Charles Wades, were also
of the group ; also Surgeon McCormick and
Chief Justice Cooper (Q.), competing with
his Ipx. Munro Ferguson with his grey outfit.
Eadith Walker sat in the members’ stand
adding a perfectly gorgeous handbag to her
violet turn-out. The Lionel Jaqu'es and
Conway Lyon brides were both there in navy
blue tailorings. Enid Woolf wore navy
georgette, and Coralie Morgan .Tones chose
the blue of the sapphire for her silk stock •
ingette. Mrs. Charlie Jaques wore a fortune
in ermine; Mrs. Tom Rolin brought a prim-
rose and blue daughter; and Miss Close’s
silver-grey chiffon velvet carried a Watteau
back effect, and her hat a crop of Ospreys.
The Garvan sisters were there (and. by the
way, it was Claire and not Nan who ran
the motor-transport service) ; and the Chal-
mers girls; and Mrs. Floyd brought conva-
lescent daughter Nora in fawn tailorings.
But the most admired of all was Sydney
L)amsel when she ran away with the Cup
that had been thought a gift to Una Cliffs
gee-gee Chrysolaus.
Into a Town Hall charged with violet
powder and the Availing of babes the mothers
of Sydney precipitated themselves last week
to look at baby, his clinics, his day nurseries
and his holiday homes, models" of which
had sprung up like mushrooms. Posters
shrieking the care of the child from his toes
to the hair of his head, menaced you with
the criminal-looking person he would inevit-
ably become if his teeth were not carefully
manicured before and after arriving. One
poster showing how the child should Avalk
Avas a bit out of plumb, and the draAving
looked like a horrible example till you were
assured by the printed matter that he was
stepping in the right direction. Furlough
House smiled a cheerful welcome in minia-
ture under the eye of Mrs. Cooper-Day, and
the sideline Strickland Hospital exhibit
found 4 great favor with the onlooker. The
kindergartens bloomed into model play-
grounds. and the Health Department with
great stage skill had laid out a dirty and
a clean back-yard.
The dirty back-yard was a fascinating
wilderness of bits of kindling wood, bits of
gay china, old tins and a paling fence
through which wide vistas of the outside
world might be glimpsed. In addition there
was a- vine that straggled around the corner
of the house and waved impudent yellow
lingers, and in one corner a cubby-house
made of two clumps of fern, and, towering
above it, in an angle of the fence, a prop
with a broken line dangling from it, and
bits of glass on the ground about it that
might be turned into a whole Robinson
Crusoe, Spanish-treasure-seeker serial by
any healthy-minded small girl or boy who
held a ticket in the Municipal library. Very
different was the back-yard next door. It
bad evidently been built with a view to
keeping Australia white; at any rate, there
was never a chink in it. Trim little paths
ran about prudish flower-beds. Potplants in
circumspect pots glared aggressively from
the window-ledges, and if you listened pro-
perly you might have heard a perpetual
“Wipe your boots, Willie,” from the Dutch-
cleanser mother within.
The different baby hospitals put out a
fascinating display of cots and bath-tubs.
The Crown-street Women’s Hospital showed
what it does for mother and babe in their
own homes as well as in the hospital ward,
and here 10 pounds of crumpled rose-petals
made into a* baby-boy held court. Fast
asleep with the dimples and the softness of
him pressed against sister’s shoulder, he
was entirely unconscious of the waves of
female adoration. Up in the corner, bounded
by the Trilby King exhibit of clothing for
babies and flanked by the stage, sat the
mothers with the prize-class babies. Half an
hour before starting time you couldn’t have
clubbed your way to the front-line of on-
lookers. These started at the weighing-
machines, where with loud wailings and
gnashing of toothless rage the infants
were weighed and poked and measured to find
the beauty that is not just skin deep. How-
ever, if you couldn’t get a look at the real
flesh and blood, there was a photo gallery
of 50 bouncing, laughing youngsters at the
foot of the hall.
Lady Davidson, holding against her black
dress the crimson .flowers presented to her
by the small child who the week before was
an Easter egg at the kiddies’ ball, performed
the opening—in pantomime as far as those
who were not directly below the platform
were concerned; for the voice of the infant
was loud in the land. The Cullen lady gave
her gentle support to the show. President
lunes-Noad thanked everybody and every-
thing. Mrs. Greville Grainger wore a green
cascade of feathers about her hat; Mrs. Her-
rick Knowles, like an almost-grown-up May
Gibbes baby, looked in friendly wise at the
other children; and Marjorie Innes-Noad.
Mrs. Aubrey Withers, Mrs. Mary Irvine and
Dr. Selwyn Harrison were among those
who extended the hand of welcome to Yice-
Regalty.
Last week the country came to town to
see another beauty contest —of cow and pig
and horse, of fruit and vegetable, each with
the perfect or nearly-perfect features of its
class, and each drawing in its train its hosts
of ban-ackers. And about them arose the
whir of machinery, arid booth and pavilion,
and hawk and pigeon.
Governor Davidson made' the opening
speech to a crowd about the official stand,
who gave one ear and eye to him and the
other to the blue-ribbon stock that took the
ring in great majesty. He said the right
thing about this being the greatest show in
the world, and nobody doubted him.
The G.-G.’s—- he openly admired of the coun-
try visitors in his grey tailorings and grey-
hat —walked about among the exhibits, a
farmer again for a day. Lady Davidson
wore black softness, and woman in general
turned out in whatever came to her hand —
half of her transparent and sunshaded ; the
other half furred and feathered and tailored.
Swank footwear was everywhere with one
or two country- visitors so smart as to pro-
mise a thrill at the Randwick meetings.
Mrs. Alec Hay played about with Dame
Margaret. S’Sam and his lad.v entertained
new Mayor and Mayoress Fitzgerald at
tea; Commander Allison and Aide Lamb
were amongst those who helped Owen Cox
cast an eye over the cattle and mentally
turn them into cold-storage freight, and the
well-dressed wife of Joe Ward, of Maori-
land, was in the party with him and niece
Miss Bonser. And genial Layton, who came
Avifh daughter Muffie and Mrs. Layton, sup-
plied civic dignity.
At his “trial” municipal kitchen in con-
nection with the Baby Welfare Exhibition,
Dr. Bean has been host to all kinds of men.
Dean Talbot’s Titian lady passed St.
Andrew’s blessing on the enterprise on the
opening day when the heads enjoyed a
three-coui-se dinner for lOd. Some sort of
wireless then went forth that the meal,
though nominally 10d., was really a free-
to-all, and the second day brought in shoals
of diners—many of them dyed-in-the-wool
dossers. Some tired-out-looking women
came along, wearing the earefully-decent
and painfully-threadbare clothing that tells
its own story. One of the helpers became
afraid stocks might run out, and suggested
a temporary closing of doors. But “No,”
said Tom the Chemist, who is Dr. Bean’s
adjutant, “we'll keep the doors open while
there’s any food left.” And so they did®
and the doctor smiled happily as his guests
picked the communal chop. The House-
wives’ Association did the cooking.
There’s an attractive three-course dinner-
carrier for the flatite who prefers to worry
his bone on his own mat. Two yards of
cretonne and a cat by Souter would make
this the rival of the vanity-bag with the
business young-woman. In London these
communistic dinners resolve into a sort of
game of ludo. You swap pennies with the
cashier for blue and red and green seals.
These in turn you swap one at a time for
the different courses. The color-scheme is
good for digestion.
Diggers will recognise a cobber in Nancy
Consett Stephen, M.8.E., here pictured by
Judith Fletcher. A founder of the Aus-
tralian Bed Cross, she is one of the only
two women on the
executive. Through
all the war years
she mothered con-
valescents, of whom
thousands passed
through her hands.
Besides arranging
for their entry to
the homes, she has
taken a personal
interest in their
after-care, and has
thus saved many of
the nervy from them-
selves. Hundreds of
them regard her as
the Athenians re-
garded their oracles.
Her advice is even
sought on legal mat-
ters. But, then, her family is full of law-
yers: her late grandfather was Chief Jus-
tice, and his son, who died only last week,
was the first barrister under Australian law,
and went up to the Supreme Court Bench
afterwards.
One of the most interested visitors to the
Baby Welfare Exhibition during the week
was Lady Helen. She dropped in one day
about four o’clock, meaning to stay half an
hour, and a quarter to six still found her
trying to tear herself away from the most
wonderful babies in the world.
On Saturday morning every Boy Scout
left in the city was in shining array, and
the Anzac had. got into his leaf-brown togs
to wait for Birdie. In spite of Show and
races and picnics the blue-eyed city did
its Digger proud, and all along the proces-
sion route from the railway to Government
House was a clamor of cheers and laughing
greetings that showed that Kitchener had
known his job of training leaders of men.
The most impressive moment of the proces-
sion was when Birdie, at the Town Hall,
saluted the starry banner that commemo-
rates our unconquerable dead. In the sun-
shine of the day the flash >of bared steel of
the guard of honor made a brave show about
the carriage in which the General sat with
his rather delicate-looking wife. In Mac-
quarie-street some of the boys who will
never grow' up rushed him, and shoulder-
high gave him a first glimpse of our wmter-
front.
The Australian Club is banqueting Gen-
eral Birdw'ood this week. He will meet
very few Gallipoli and Flanders comrades.
As a matter of fact, many of the more
prominent members who went to the war.
such as Maclaurin, Onslow-Thompson, and
John Verge, are buried where they served.
The last unmarried daughter of Colopel
Burns, M.L.C., has become engaged, like
her sister Gipsy, to a sailor. His name is
Lieut. Pierson, and he is a D.S.C.
• T h M, knottin S of Dr - Campbell, of Mar-
rickville. and Nurse Marjory Marr, daughter
of the H. F. Marrs, of Stanmore, comes off
at St. Philip’s on April 14. The W'edding-
cake will be cut at the Wentworth. Next
day at Scots’ Church Alison Aitken says
“I will” to Dr. Harry Harris, of Mac-
quarie-street. And that reception will be at
the Wentworth, too. Bride-elect is the only
daughter of Robert Aitken. of Marrickville
the vendor of the alleged obsolete mill that
the wheat inquiry frightened Daw Hall
about.
The Women’s Service Club was the set-
ting for a party given by Mrs. W. A. Fox
in honor of son Gerard and his daintv bride,
brought from Switzerland. Captain Fox
was w'o.unded and taken by the Iljins, and
later interned in the country without a
coastline. Brass-bound khaki was much
in evidence at the party, and several ex-
prisoners turned up to meet their old pal.
There is a Fox daughter, too, Dympna, who
has a taste for amateur theatricals.
A wedding of ’Varsity interest happened
on March 20, at St. Clement’s, Marrickville
when Archdeacon Martin, with the help of
the bride’s brother, transformed Clare Poole,
clad in a foam of satin, georgette and tulle!
into Mrs. Walter Hull. The ’groom is a
B.Sc., and the bride the B.A. who captured
the 1919 medal for English verse. Ur
Paling supported the bridegroom, whose
sister made a girlish maid for the bride
The newlyweds will see the moon rise from
Mrs. “Fairymead” Young’s cottage in the
mists of the Mountains.
Vivien, daughter of the late F. W. Jack-
sou, for many years manager of the Union
S.S. Co., was married at St. Stephen's to
Kenneth M. Watson, whose dad used to be
of Elsternwick (Vic.). The bride’s pretty
frock was cream net over white silk, trimmed
with filet lace; the smart belt of Malmaison
pink silk exactly toned with the bouquet of
carnations. May Watson attended the bride
in biscuit voile and a black velvet hat.
Florence Eadith Milner Stephen will pro-
mise to love, etc.. Frank Lamb at St. John’s
on April 14. Bride’s brother gives her
away, and four child bridesmaids—Daphue
and Diana Davidson, Faith Maearthur On-
slow and Margaret Fairfax—attend her.
Reception at Clanricade, Elizabeth Bay:
honeymoon at Port Hacking; future resi-
dence the Astor.
Dr. Grace Cordingly, who distinguished
herself both at Sydney and London Unis.,
and did important pathological work in
England during the war, gave herself into
the keeping of Reginald James Bridge at
St Philip’s, on March fi. Canon Belling-
ham tied the knot. Bride is eldest
daughter of the late Thomas Cordingly, of
Townsville —the fine old industrial scientist
who was the first chemist at the first meat-
preserving works in Australia —and of Mrs.
Cordingly, of North Sydney. Bridegroom
is .son of the late W. 11. Bridge, of New-
castle, and Mrs. Bridge, of Dulwich Hill.
Dr. Emma Buckley was in attendance on
the bride.
George Osborne, of the big pastoral family,
died last week at Burwood, where he had
been living since he left 52 Macleay-street.
He married for the second time late in life,
and his wife survives him. D’Arcy and
Frank Osborne are sons, and Kath., a
daughter, married a sailor some years ago,
and is now in England.
Grace Burrows Ims taken the job of
organising sec. of Women’s Hostels. She
will, however, remain organising sec. of
the Girls' Realm Guild, but in an hon.
capacity. She has been a secretary of the
Guild ever since sister Alice started the
Sydney branch some quarter of a century
ago, and she can’t bear to let it go out of
the family.
Henry Penn’s concert at the King’s Hall
last week is still the talk of keyboard enthusi-
asts. Henry played the Chopin sonata in
B fiat minor and Alfred Hill’s in A. and his
introduction of Alfred’s work to Sydney met
with a reception as warm as the afternoon.
The applause for the Busoni numbers
reached the insistent encore level. Dulcie
Huxtable sang, and Sinding’s “Rustle of
Spring” sent everybody away happy.
Here’s a photograph of interest to Maori-
land as well as Australia. It is the pic-
ture of Miss Izard, by May Hollick; and
Miss Izard, with the
help of her friend
Miss Lowe, runs a
sun-raysed fru i t-
block a t Mildura.
Five acres in all.
and 24 under eulti-
A'ation. the work en-
tirely done by the
two young Austra-
lians at odd times
when the one is not
writing for the local
paper and the other
attending to the
duties of librarian at
the public library.
Last year’s crop
from the 24 acres
brought in over
£2OO. And anybody
at all can multiply that by two and see
what the result will be when the five acres
are in bearing.
Saturday night’s concert brought forward
a superb Ella Caspers—an Ella with shin-
ing hair and graceful arms, who lifted a
radiant voice in Dvorak’s Imflammatus. It
was the jewel of the evening.
Captain and Mrs. Watkins are back in
Sydney. She was Ruby Bracegirdle, only
daughter of Captain and Mrs. Bracegirdle,
who both passed out while daughter was on
her wedding-tour. Mrs. Watkins is a bril-
liant pianist, and when in London spent
most of her time in entertaining soldiers.
Feminine returnees from London are dis-
playing something new in jewellery —the
wing of the butterfly under crystal, and the
effect is very beautiful.


THE BEALE
COMBINED in the Beale Player-Piano are the true
attributes of perfect playing, viz, faultless technique and
superb interpretive control. The instrument’s technical
perfection we will not unduly stress. It is perfect, but we take
it that mere brilliancy of execution is as soulless a thing in a
self-playing Piano as in a ten-fingered human player. Even
Schumann deemed technical adroitness valuable only when it
served a higher purpose.
And that higher purpose ? It is undoubtedly to reach and
express the soul of music. This is what the Beale Player-Piano
does. Not because of its stupendous technical ability, but be-
cause the nine expression controls enable one to reveal the
inner beauty of every musical composition. The controls are
the reason for 'Beale’ superiority.
There are also superior features of construction which can be
made intelligible only by an inspection. These we shall be
pleased to explain any time.
WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE LITERATURE
i "7' r
M
EL
The better musician you are the more you will appreciate the Beale.
SHOWROOMS:
333 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
BEALE 6C CO. LTD.
FACTORY:
41 47 TRAFALGAR ST
ANNANDALF.
BRANCHES —N.S.W.: BATHURST, ORANGE, LISMORE, NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN,
WAGGA. VICTORIA: MAPLES, in all MELBOURNE Suburbs. TASMANIA: WILLIAMS
BROS., HOBART; MAPLES, LAUNCESTON. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: JOHN EVANS, LTD.,
ADELAIDE. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: J. A. THOMPSON & CO., LTD., PERTH.
BEALE & CO. (QUEENSLAND), LTD.,
90-92 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, TOWNSVILLE, ROCKHAMPTON,
MACKAY, CAIRNS.
A. 4


£lOOO PER YEAR
at 23 Years of Age
>5
We know
of a young
lady—an Aus-
tralian commer-
cial artist, who
makes £lOOO a
year and over, by
designing fashion
drawings. We know
of many other
artists who make
considerably more.
Why not you ?
Under the per-
sonal direction of
Mr. Harry J.
West o n, one of
Australia’s most
successful commer-
cial artists, we can
develop your talent,
and put you in the
way of making
money in this con-
genial manner.
LEARN BY MAIL
Send three
stamps to cover
postage, and we
will forward
you our illlus-
trated booklet,
“THERE’S
MONEY IN
THE PEN.’’
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
193 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY
Legal Notice.
COUTH AUSTRALIA.—IN THE SUPREME COURT.
, Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction, No. 5 of
1920.—T0 CLARENCE CATCHILL of South Cap
Station near Port Augusta in the State of South
Australia Station Hand and to HARRY BENNETT
or South Gap Station near Port Augusta in the
FnJ-e™ South Australia Station Hand. TAKE
NOTICE that Citations respectively bearing date
theith day of January 1920 have been issued out
pt the Supreme Court of South Australia respectively
t? “PPear and answer the petition of
KENDALL KENDALL formerly of South Gap Station
near Port Augusta in the State of South Australia
put now of Oakden Hills Station near Port Augusta
in the said State Station Hand praying for a dis-
solution of his marriage with his' wife TOTTIE
KENDALL on the ground of her having committed
adultery with you and each of you. In default of
your so appearing the Court will proceed to hear
and determine the said charge in due course of law
and to pronounce sentence therein your absence not-
withstanding. THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
tor the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
from the date of the last insertion of this advertise-
ment to attend in person or by your Proctor Solici-
tor or Attorney at the office of our said Court Vic-
toria Square Adelaide and there to enter an appear-
ance in accordance with the Rules in that behalf
without which you will not be allowed to address
Hie Court in person or by Counsel at any stage of
Ipe proceedings in the Cause,
i DONALD KERR, Pirie Street, Adelaide, Proctor
for the Petitioner. W. I. STUART, Master.
1 inserted twice in each of the following
newspapers: The Sydney Bulletin, the South Aus-
tfalian .Advertiser and one daily newspaper pub-
lished m Brisbane in the State of Queensland, a
fortnight to intervene between the first and last
insertions. L
Public Notices.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUSTRA-
LIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Radies and Gentlemen, —
j We beg to intimate that we are Candidates
Board eCtl ° n aS 1 >irectors on y° u »* principal
We appreciate the confidence you have re-
posed in us in the past, and respectfully
request, a. renewal of same on the present
occasion.
Yours faithfully,
R. ,7. BLACK,
ALEXANDER MacOORMICK.
Christchurch Tramway
Board.
Loan £340,000, 5J per cent.
THE Christchurch Tramway Board invites
applications at par for purchase of the
debentures of the first instalment of the
above Loan (£200.000).
Interest payable half-yearly free of ex-
change in New Zealand or in Sydney and
Melbourne. Loan repayable in 1944."
The security is the Christchurch Tramway
Undertaking and its revenues (subject to
existing charges) and a rate to cover In-
terest and Sinking Fund.
The Board will pay exchange through the
Lnion Bank on remittances of principal
moneys to Christchurch.
Further particulars respecting Security,
etc., will be found on Prospectus, copies of
which are obtainable from the Union Bank
of Australia, Ltd., or from the undersigned.
FRANK THOMPSON,
Christchurch, General Manager.
March 1, 1920.
AGENCY.— RUDALL FRERES (Lon-
don and Brussels), General Merchants
and Shippers, are prepared to accept an
Agency (buying and selling) for an approved
Australian firm. Correspondence invited to :
13-14 Basinghall Street, London, E.C.2.
Ehgland.
d 4 IFT OF LAND-CLEARING INVEN-
VX TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING.”
Griffith, N.S.W.
Wanted to Buy.
rvLD SILVER mid GOLD. We wish to BUY any
M quantities of Silver and Gold for melting
purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd.. 23 Hunter Sf.', Sydney.
m
m
\ V
oys\E-
priori
COLD WEATHER
HORSE RUGS.
This fiery steed is wearing our BW Style,
with cross web fastening. We have also
B Style, with cross leather straps; C Style,
with hind-leg straps, and
THE FAMOUS ‘•EUREKA” PATENT
STAY-ON RUG.
Write for our full rug price list, showing
Four Styles and Seven Qualities, and we
will send you patterns of the canvas used.
DON T measure horse along the back. We want full length of rug along bottom.
HEBE ARE PRICES OE GOOD RUGS
T)ri .. , , sft. sft.6in. sft.9iu. 6ft. 6ft.6in
t>)' 4 J.?? , f> ea vy navy canvas, cheek lined, cross belly webs 39/6 40/- 40/3 40/6 u/‘.
84, ditto, but with cross leather 44/6 45/- 45/3 45/6 4«/ fi
BN, hea y y white duck, lined kerse.v, with cross leather straps 58/- 59/- 59/6 60/- 72/-
Eureka Patent Rug in white duck, lined white felt.. 58/6 61/- 62/6 63/6 66/6
Add 2/3 per Rug for freight in N.S.W. and we refund if less paid.
K‘burra Stockwhips.
Kangaroo Right Through and
Expert Plaited.
Thongs, 6ft. 7ft.
12-plait.. 14/6 17/-
16-plait.. 17/- 19/6
Bft. Oft. 10ft.
19/6 21 6 21
33/- 24/6 27/
SdIHAM'
OOM
00
00M
HANDLES, 10-plait 15/6; 24-plait 17/c
Handles for Oft. and 10ft. Thongs—
-16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait, 19/-
Whips Sent Tost Free for Cash with Order.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
Saddlers,
393 George St.,
Sydney
m
Made in Australia.
Again Available.
Cheaper than ever.
Obtainable at all
Storekeepers, Saddlers,
Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants.
m
Are You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, GORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Couch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming.
Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
POSSONJ
eed, scru
Tree K
I-
“'RtCT.OHS F<ia
u: e
T °a Lccco 8. CO..*
** -, *HIH
Australia by A. VICTOR LEGCO & CO.
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY . BRISBANE
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer ?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has effectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
“Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Prices: 56 !bs. 70/-, 15 lbs. 21/3,
7 lbs. 10/6, 1 lb. 2/-, | lb. 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1 lb. 9d., i IK 6d. extra.
Interstate, 1 lb. 1/2, A lb. Bd. extra.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are made under the supervision of leather experts, who
never overlook the fact that a Shoe Dressing should not
only POLISH, but also act as a PRESERVATIVE.
Only the finest ingredients are used in these world-
famous Dressings.
COLORS : Black, Brown, Dark Brown. Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey, Dark Grey.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
\ame and address must appear on the MSS. A’o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Airlie: Close-up; a few awkward lines
dragged it over the edge.... T. Bower: Too long and
too diffuse... .L.C.R.: There’s a good par in it.
Try it that way—it would be safer, t 00... .G.L.T.:
Doesn’t read true... .C.L.C.: Beeby was in the
original McGowen Ministry. Holman was the only
member of it who remained continuously in office
since 1910, though Flowers has had a job ever since.
China P.: Perhaps you’re right, perhaps you’re
wrong. Doesn’t matter a , anyway... .Long
Beer: Thanks; but it went the rounds this side,
t 00.... Pomdig: You lash out with great vigor, but
too many of your blows miss.. 1 .Fleche: Y'es, and
how would you do it?... .H.C.D.: Stiff and stilted
and no marrow in its bones... .Penguin: Nothing in
the verses. Prose makes a poor scream... .A.E.R.:
That’s about the worst offence yet committed against
the “vanished” aboriginal... .Latona: Really, even
verse ought to mean something... .Hermish: Not
enough point... .W.D.S.: Bargain-counter quality.
Recip Cyn : None of this 10t... .G.V.S.D.: Couldn’t
find its meaning by digging. Perhaps we should
have bored for it.... F.P.C.: Well enough written.
Now get something to say.... R.C.: Not up....
H.V.L.: Dull stuff trying to walk with a swagger.
....Claudius: Correct, but c01d.... C. A. (North-
cote): Patriotic scream halts and wobbles....
1 Aspiration: Very promising if you are as young
as you seem to be A.A.T.: The gentle wallop of
the recurring rhyme has a fine effect :
It was a summer’s day down by the bay,
Where Fay and Ray had come to stay
In a jolting dray, from far. far away,
Past sweet new hay and lambs at play.
After weary delay and some dismay,
To Inn they straj’, and maid with tray
Shows them the way their appetites to slay
With good food, aye, for which they pay.
Then out on the bay, where the waves do spray,
The rocks so grey where seabirds lay,
They will ever say, so happy and gay,
Down by the bay were they that day.
....Enid L.: “Tasmania” is too thin in its “gauzy
greyness.”... .Tote: Wooden yarn, and it doesn’t
even make clear what happened Edith B.: \ r ou
won’t “keep pace with others on this upward climb”
that way.... Melric: Poor in thought, conventional
and badly constructed Vivigt: “The Sleepless”
is rather raw and cold. .. .Fanuela: “Reverie” is
heavy and indigestible D. de C.: The little sob
moves us so much that we wonder what the yarn is
about. .. . W.A.: “Sailor to Mate” is horrible verse.
. ...T.U.8.: Too slight... .J.J.G.: You think the
third verse might be left out. We think the others
might be. ... J.C.T.: Poor, as far as we can guess
what it’s about... .G.V.S.D.: Clumsy metres badly
handled. .. .A.L.8.: Wonder how you contrived to
make “Honolulu” so uninteresting... .Cano: The
sermon is too dull even in story form L.P.F.:
That “Dawn” doesn’t attract us D.W.0.F.:
Don’t like “Jenks” nor believe in him much.. . .
Oliver B.: The new manner is a delight:—
Then hum away all fear and come
Out in the fields and sun ;
Where you’ll find the best of chum.
You will come, come" Well done!
Away from city sounds with a bound ;
It's years now since he saw the town :
His face glowing with joy, he found
All fears gone, smiles had crowned.
E.G. (Clematis): With a little more thought
and care you will write a yarn J.F.11.: Betsy’s
idea of sewing her husband up in blankets when
drunk and then walloping him has novelty; but
you don’t tell the stoiy.... J.M.W.: A Papuan yarn
without color is disappointing; but it’s a lot worse
when you can’t find out what has happened....
H. 0.8.: Spoiled in the telling Pqppy: Doesn’t
work out, though the material was there E.E.M.:
Can’t trace the verses M.M. (St. Hilda) : Aspira-
tions after death have a hollow sound J.H.:
“Bereft” and “Graves” won't do. .. .Plodder: It’s
hardly a new idea ; and the verse cries out against
it.... Alex. W.: Those short lines spoil it as blank
verse; and we’re not fond of blank verse for this
paper.... Wayback Bloke: Verse not up. ...Old .1.:
Not badly done, but it doesn’t suit W.G.W.:
The reply of the Government is that it has not.
declined to register the transfer. Apparently the
lawyer who said that the Attorney-General’s per-
mission would have to be obtained was wrong....
M.A.G.: The Digger who was infuriated with the
time-wasting Repat. clerks didn’t refer to the Sydney
office.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Ilibbert: The silly ass is badly drawn, and the
clothes you made for him would drive a Baptist
tailor to drink. .. .W.0.G.: A good clinch, but the
girl has too much calf C.McP.: Some way to
travel yet C.8.D.: Draw larger, draw better,
avoid chestnuts. . . .E. 5.8.: Can’t use them. .. .E.L.:
Too crude... .C. 11.: Your pen trembles along ner-
vously. Learn what a hand looks like, and draw
firm... .R.V.F.: Bill totters on the feet you gave
him. .. .N.McB.: You scratch aimlessly and make a
bewildering mess of your paper C.P.G.: Album
drawing of commissioner hasn’t a chance A.E.H.:
Both depressing samples L. 8.: For a start, the
lady’s chest is crooked M.G.: Can’t find a pulpit
for him here. .. .D.E.G.: Eve’s first washing-day has
been hung out before E.R.: What a creaky jester
you are !... . ILA.: Struggle on.
“T. 0.1.” : In the first ’thirties the Colonial
Surgeon at Bathurst was James Busby. The
hospital was a plain four-roomed building
looked after by the Government doctor.
The patients were mostly prisoners; but one
small ward was set apart for soldiers
r emale prisoners when ill were attended at
first by the surgeon at the place where they
were employed, and later, when a women’s
factory was established, in a room set
apart as a ward. Patients frequently
reached the hospital in a terrible plight. On
one occasion a scurvy patient was sent in
with his irons embedded in his flesh and cut-
ting him almost to the bone. Dr. Busbv
sont for a blacksmith and had the iron's
struck off, immediately reporting his action
to Dr. Bowman his superior in Sydney.
Bowman, in turn brought the matter before
tne Devem »r, and Busby was sharply called
upon f<» gye reason for his act. He at once
reported (hat ordinary humanity and pro-
fessional requirements necessitated the course
ne took. I his by no means satisfied “the
system, and when the man soon after “took
of it 6 bnSh Busby never beard the lajt


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Gabines-de-
I.uxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel. City 4246. 2 ,4, 6 Spring Street,
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England!
in 29 Days, |
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Vosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 17,
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies,
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY. M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHItP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager; J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 25.3 George Street,
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street,
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
liranches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL RANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Hankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,001,009 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Kdwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., J.S.O.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD O I'' lICE ... 'BRISBANE,
llranclies—l. uni<l nil, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queens lu ini.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund . £160,000
Directors : HERBERT It. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. If. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. •• •• £529,988
Preference Shares. . ~ ... 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up • • • • • • 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital •• •• - •
Reserve Fund . . - S ‘°’ QoQ
£1,070,000
Uncalled"” Capital • • •• 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
n Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
don Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
neies in all Australian States and throughout
-rafts''amf' Letters of Credit issued on London,
n-iea arid elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
' proceeds Remitted. All usual banking business
isacted.
Shipping:, etc.
Canad ian -Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, April 26.
R.M.S. MAKURA, May 27.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian ltockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all he visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Simioth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United Slates, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
MOAN A, from Wellington, April 22.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, April 15.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
m
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,639460
3,200,000
4,639,160
£12,478,320
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar. K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.u.
The lion. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkirier, Esq
Thomas Buckland, l'.sq. I ~ „ ,
Auditors: A. G. Mi Ison, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Bussell French, K.B.E.
Head Olfice —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places WBECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and eolleeted. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
m
JBank Australia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up £2,462,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. \V. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
* HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Huddart Parkerlyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars applv HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Codins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FILE TWIN-SOUEW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levulta” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
j gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
| a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,"
I which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Pbilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
I TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. (id. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. (id. For. particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
■ .7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
RUPTURE .
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us ami we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feej-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for;
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Klacklieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOIl:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney). _ , .
I*. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line' (Turrtbull, Martin : & Co.), at
Brisbane. „ . , ,
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports). - a -a c
Union S.S'. Co. of'New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). V.
Iluddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
T.ondon Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
IMIVNCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney; ■ Suva ! (Fiji), ,-vMafy-
borough, Bnndaherg. Bowen and Cooktowti.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
SIR J. G. FRAZER.
Sir Roger de Coverley, and other
Literary Pieces. By Sir JAMES
GEORGE FRAZER, author of
“The Golden Bough,” etc. Bs. Gd.
net.
These essays represent what may be de-
scribed .as explorations in the byways of
literature by a distinguished author who has
made his name by other and more weighty
contributions to knowledge.
Industry and Trade. A Study of
Industrial Technique and Business
Organisation ; and of their Influences
on the Conditions of various Classes
and Nations. By ALFRED MAR-
SHALL. 18s. net.
The Spectator. —“ This admirable book
. . . . Every thoughtful employer and
workman and every politician ought to read
it carefully. It abounds in information, it
is full of ideas, and it displays the judicial
temper which is most sorely needed in the
general discussion of industrial questions.”
The Economic Consequences of
the Peace. By JOHN MAY-
NARD KEYNES, C.B. Bs. 6d. net.
The Daily Chronicle. —“Do not be per-
turbed by the title, for it covers a multitude
of interesting- matter. The picture of the
Big Four at the Peace Conference is superb
—the vivid sketch of M. Clemenceau especi-
ally delightful.”
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
2s. Gd. net.
Annual Subscription, 20s. net, post
free.
The Problem of the Common-
wealth. L. CURTIS. The after-
war relations between Great Britain
and the Dominions. Australian edi-
tion. Sewed, 2s. Gd.; cloth, 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing.
Australian edition. 6s.
Aircraft in Peace anti the Law. Bv
J. M. SPAIGHT, 0.8. E., LL.D.,
author of “Aircraft in War,” etc.
Bs. Gd. net.
The English Mechanic. —“The book is
one that all should read, for most of ns,
whether aeronauts or not, will find that,
directly or indirectly, we are interested.”
An Introduction to Anthropology.
A General Survey of the Early His-
tory of the Human Race. By the
Rev. E. O. James, B.Litt., F.C.S.
7s. Gd. net.
The Times. —“A useful volume by a clear
and trustworthy writer of the modern learn-
ing on the subject which, besides attracting
the general reader, will serve the purpose of
students seeking- a diploma in anthropology
at Oxford or London University.”
Science and Fruit Growing. Being
an account of the Results obtained
at the Woburn Experimental Fruit
Farm since its foundation in 1894.
By the DUKE OF BEDFORD,
K. F.R.S., and SPENCER
PICKERING, M.A., F.R.S. 12s. Gd.
net.
The Fruit Grower. —“ Carefully tabulated
records have enabled the authors to deal with
their subject in a very comprehensive man-
ner, and their information should be of the
utmost value to growers who wish to improve
or extend their orchards and plantations.”
Macmillan’s Illustrated List of Practical
Works on Agriculture, Horticulture, etc., will
be sent post free on application.
Macmillan’s 3/- Library
NEW VOLS.
Elizabeth and her German Garden.
3s. net.
The Solitary Summer. By the author
of “Elizabeth and her German Gar-
den.” 3s. net.
The Benefactors.. By the Author of
“Elizabeth and Her German Garden.” 3s.
net.
The Adventures of Elizabeth in
Rugen. By the Author of “Elizabeth
and Her German Garden.” 3s. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
m
ABBEY
SHOES
possess the distinctive style which appeals
to the cultured taste, combined with the
wearing qualities sought by those who
demand long service.
We illustrate a choice Tail Willow Calf
Bal.
40/-, 55/-
In Patent Coltskin with dull Calf Legs.
55/-
In full sizes and medium and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. 0 39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL, £500,000.
Fire Insurances on ail classes of
——————— Buildings, Stock?,, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks «« Merchandise,
—— Hulls of \ essels, I reights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to Tiie Manager.
Legal Notice.
rip 6 JOHN CONNELL (also known as
1 JOHN MILLER CONNELL and
JOHN MILLER), son of Alexander Con-
nell, late of Auckland, Retired Lighthouse
Keeper, deceased, last heard of in the A.1.F.,
and all persons claiming by through or under
him.
Pursuant to an Order made under Section
23 of the Public Trust Office Amendment
Act, 1913, by his Honor the Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of New Zealaiid, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 30th day of Sep-
tember, 1920, your claim to the -share of the
estate of the abovenamed Alexander Connell,
deceased, held by the Public Trustee on
behalf of the said John Connell, failing which
the said share will be distributed among the
persons entitled to the said estate disregard-
ing your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day of
March, 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE Office Solicitor.
Public Trust Office, Wellington.
Dependable Guns
2*
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong 1 .
Price 2/« post free.
m
&
r \
fA I
/'<
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 28-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about oilb Freight paid, £6
WE REPAIR
GUNS# RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman’s
Mecum.
“SURE
Guide.
Vade
sacs
r
1125. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
~r English D.B.B.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28- or 30-
lneh barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib. weight about 7 Alb. Freight paid,
£18/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 9d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
TthacaJleld
812. “Ithaca” Arms Co.'s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high
crip, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 711 b.
Tested for Vito Powders Fi eight paid,
We can also supply the “Ithaca’’ Gun, similar description to Vo. 12 b ; *
higher grade 12-gauge at Ft eight paid,
file cut rib, pistol
£,1414 -
£,16/16-
mm
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
191,1 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-mel
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system* chambered for 2}in. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. 10/10/
Weight 731 b Freight paid, 3L»la/la/«
POWDER
AUSTRAL 3/9 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/9 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoHeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
■
B2C. Midland Gun Co.’s D.B.B.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2{in. cartridges
beautifully engraved, weight about 751b Fre, * ht P alc1 ' *'***/
SUNOL TOBACCO
High-grade Virginia—Natural Aroma.
SEND FOR 2oz. SAMPLE PACKET TO DAY.
Dark 1/2, Post Free; Bright 1/4, Post Free.
m
Steven’s
S.B.B.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6Slb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. B7—/■'/■'k/ Postage—2/6 N.S.1V
AUTO- Ejector, 5U/- 4/8 Inter-state.
\ ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE PQBT FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. |
1C
L2J
r
rustrmws greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
and TOBACCONISTS
m
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
WewcastJe d Brisbane j


The Real Remedy for
Backache and Kidney Troubles,
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Your Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for the back-
ache and kidneys have
given me such good re-
sults that I cannot
hesitate to write and
tell you about their
health-giving proper-
ties. I have taken
only one bottle and
they acted like magic.
I recommend Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills to any-
one suffering from
backache and kidney
trouble, for I am sure
that they will cure
them, and once they
have used them they
will always keep a
bottle in the house to
protect themselves
against backache and
kidney complaints.
Yours very sincerely,
(Mrs.) M. TOOHEY,
Moira,
Grosvenor Street,
Neutral Bay.
Mrs. M. TOOIIEY (from a photo).
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you feel that your kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your run-down
feeling, begin taking Ur. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble,
because as soon us your kidneys Improve they will help Ihe other orguns to health.
Ur. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for backache and kidney trouble relieve the worst cases,
because they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the matter,
clean out the kidneys, and make them filter out all the poisonous waste matters
and uric acids that lodge in the joints and muscles, causing rheumatism. They'
soothe and heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They are a unique remedy,
entirely different from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else to compare
with them. No matter how old you are, or how long you have suffered, the very
principle of Ur. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically impossible to take
them into the human system without obtaining results. Ur. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
price 1/8 and SJ/8.
D* Sheldon's
Gif 1
O
PIU/S.
BANISHES
BACKACHE,KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND URINARYTROUBLES.
REAL PROFIT PAYERS.
Profits are the result of efficiency. Greater efficiency in saws means
quicker work and bigger profits.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
are most efficient. Made in 15 different styles of teeth,
from Double Extra Crucible Steel. They cut longer
without sharpening, thus adding- materially to time saved.
Prompt attention assured to inquiries addressed to
Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra Capital HigH-Bpeed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorile
Cliff St., Fremantle
John Reid & Nephews.
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
os k° v
lllillllllllllw
n&iiiiil/ll
&
TKe
All
V
m
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send Your Inquiry for early delivery
to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Coventry, England.
JBritis
A
Life and Death.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
Life.
HE is the daughter of the sun and sea —
Laughing, brown-eyed ; brown-thighed,
and generous breasted ;
Daring the long Pacific billows, living free
As any of the wild white stallions she
has crested:
Splendid and fruitful, giving all her best
From her bright eye, brave heart and
gracious breast.
Death.
He is a killjoy clothed in rusty black,
And a belltopper garnished round with
crape;
His squeakful boots make plain his stub-
toed track,
He shudders when he sees juice of the
grape. *
He teaches blind worms how to like the
dark —
Black Death the Wowser, Killjoy, and the
Nark.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDIOED.
Above the Law.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
I NEVER read of parties to legal pro-
ceedings growing fretful under the
lash of counsel without recalling the
case of Ishmael Gallagher—often referred
to in the press as the Man They Could Not
Divorce. Some said that he had deliberately
based his methods on the military axiom,
"The best means of defence lies in attack” ;
on the old story about the bishop who, on
getting a telegram saying “Fly, all is dis-
covered.” did 'So and was never seem in his
diocese again ; and on the fact that one of
his brothers-in-law was noted as a "strong
Judge”—which gave him the necessary con-
tempt for Judges. Some argued, on the
other hand, that it was a mere matter of
temperament and luck. The point was
never decided.
He was charged in his wife's peti-
tion with misconduct, drunkenness, deser-
tion and cruelty of every known sort, so
that hostile counsel had ample scope for
cross-examination. Ishmael’s defence was
of the negative order: he claimed that except
in a few immaterial particulars Mrs. Gal-
lagher had during their 30 years of married
life been as blameworthy as himself. How-
ever, he had omitted to collect proofs before
the storm broke; and it was then, of course,
too late.
I pass over his initial interviews with
Messrs Slime, Blackduck and Slime, attor-
neys and notaries public; the “advice on
evidence” stage; the 04 conferences and
consultations (at anything from five to
15 guineas a time) ; the gallantly-fought
alimony proceedings; the Commission to
examine witnesses in Buenos Aires, Lon-
don. Calcutta, Batwell (Saskatchewan)
and elsewhere —all necessary in view of
Ishmael’s known wealth. These preliminary
skirmishes, while ruinously costly, served,
anyhow, to teach him the legal ropes. At
the end of the first 12 months’ litigation
he had a fair working acquaintance with
the ways of courts.
The Temple of Justice was crowded on
the day Ishmael entered the box for tin
first time. In the body of the court sat his
wife with her solicitor, the latter jingling,
so to speak. £l2OO of Ishmael’s good money
in his pocket and plainly avid for more.
Society filled the public galleries. The
press was everywhere. It was a notable
occasion. Ishmael having denied every-
thing. Mr. Silas Tanke, K.C., rose to tear
him to pieces. Only the unknown is ter-
rible ; and Ishmael had known Tanke sined
the days when old Bill Tanke, his father,
had plied about the city as a carrier.
Ishmael had got condescendingly drunk with
Silas Tanke. He had collaborated with him
in entertaining chorus-girls at supper. He
had even imperilled his social position by
being seen at the theatre with the K.C. and
his wife. Imagine his scandalised amaze-
ment, therefore, when Tanke, arranging his
features in such a manner as to express the
nausea of an anchorite" on coming in con-
tact with Sin, said :
"You will not deny, I trust, sir, that you
are an ’abitual inebriate?"
“Why, Tanke,” replied Ishmael stupefied,
“you're a drunk yourself. Everyone knows
you are. You were drunk only last”— —
“Silence!” cried the Judge. “I shall be
very much obliged, gentlemen of the press,
if you take no notice of that most uncalled
for and unjust allegation—honor of the
profession—absurd charge—most imperti-
nent —utterly ridiculous. And” —turning to
the gallery—“if I hear any more of this un-
seemly merriment. I shall clear the court.
As for you, sir” —to Gallagher—“another
word of the sort and I shall commit you—
commit you. sir.”
“But. Judge”
“Don’t call me that. I’m not —rthat is,
call me ‘yer ’Onner,’ ”
“But. yer ’Onner,” repeated Ishmael
patiently, “he is a drunk. Why, you and
I have seen him drunk in the Club times
out of number. Take that night when they
had to carry him”
“Silence, sir! At once! No more of
it. I say!”
“But”
“Enough! Proceed with your cross-
examination. Mr. Tanke.”
“You will not deny,” began Tanke some-
what weakly.
"If it’s anything about drunkenness.” said
Ishmael, “cut it out! I won't take it from
you. Tanke, so”
“Will you treat counsel with proper
respect?” thundered the Judge.
“But I don’t respect him. Herb, that is.
Judge—l mean yer ’Onner. How on”
“I give you due warning. Mr. Gallagher.
Either you amend your ways—treat Court,
due respect—or I aommit you—prison—
no further warning.”
“Out of consideration for Yerroner.” said
Tanke, “and~ the Court. I am handing over
the cross-examination of respondent to my
junior, Mr. Glubber. If unseemliness is
thus banished from these 'allowed presinks
I shall be rewarded.” And drawing his robes
about him the great man resumed his seat.
Glubber was in the late thirties. In the
early days of the war he had received many
white feathers and other reminders that the
path of duty led to those regions where
"Death moans and sings.” That he had
taken no notice of the hints was a matter
of notoriety. Ishmael further despised Glub-
ber as one who wore Yankee boots and in-
dulged in lay-preaching. Lie had been cut-
ting him for years. It was intolerable that
such a creature should be licensed to harry
him in public.
"I intend to question you, first,” began
Glubber austerely, “respecting this woman
Hannah McVizes. Your paramour, sir.
Your”
“I know all about you,” interrupted
Ishmael irritably. “Why aren’t you at the
war?”
“I ask yer ’Onner's protection,” began
Glubber in anguished tones.
“Silence!” shouted the Judge, frenziedly
turning upon Ishmael.
“Well, why didn’t he go?” reasoned the
respondent. “There he is, young, strong, fit,
no responsibilities”
“Will you answer the questions?” deman-
ded the Judge. “And without comment.
And with respect. Otherwise”
“You’ve got me again,” said Ishmael. “I
don’t respect Glubber —never did. No one
does. You don’t yerself. ‘A cold-footed
young practice-snatcher’—that's what I
heard you call him”
“Silence , sir !”
“Well, I’m sworn to tell the truth, and I
metfti to do it, even if I have to go to gaol.
You said it at my own house”
“Another sound from that gallery and 1
clear the court! And, as for you, sir, you
are on the way, well on the way, to a com-
mittal for contempt—for contempt, you hear
me, sir. You will answer the questions put
to you with respect. You " ill—Oh! pro-
ceed Mr. Glubber, proceed with your cross-
examination.”
“Did you, or did you not, on the night, of
the 30th March last (follow me carefully,
sir) meet the woman Hannah McVizes in
the road outside your house, you being in
your motor-car at the time, and proceed with
the said woman”
“My nephew went to the war and lost an
eye, poor feller, and he's older than you, an’
got chronic gastritis. So did my wife’s two
nephews, an’ they’re older than you. The
idea of a hulking young chap like you”
“Yer ’Onner,” wailed Glubber, “I demand
to be protected from these insults !”
“Insults!” objected Gallagher, with amaze-
ment. “Look what you’re doing to me!
Why, dammit, you’re a hired insulter, nothing
more or less.”
“Yer ’Onner !” moaned Glubber again.
“Witness” —began his Honor furiously.
“If yer ’Onner pleases,” interrupted Ish-
mael’s counsel deferentially, yet firmly, “leave
respondent to me. I will confer with him.
I will reason. I will bring the position
home to him, as it were—the dignity of the
Courts, the honor of counsel”-
“Do so, Mr. Squirm,” said the Judge
warmly. “And see that you succeed, or I
warn you it will be the worse for your
client.”
“Look here, Squirm,” said Ishmael. leaning
affably over the side of the box. “It’s no good
you asking me to be civil to that waster
Glubber. I’d sooner have Tanke, boozer an’
all as he is. Wotterbout getting old Tanke
back and starting afresh?”
“Silence!” shouted the Judge.
“Silence!” repeated his associate and
several ushers.
“Damme! They're telling us to be silent
now,” complained Ishmael. “A madder place
I never was in.”
“Either you comport yourself with pro-
per respect towards counsel and the Court,"
hissed Mr. Squirm, “or”—in a voice raised
for the benefit of the Bench—-“ 7 throiv up
my brief!"
“Please yerself,” said Ishmael. “7 never
wanted you from the start. It was Billy
Slime that lumbered you on to me.”
“Be reasonable,” whispered Squirm, who
was relying on the suit being drawn out
sufficiently to wipe off most of his bank over-
draft. “Be reasonable, my dear Mr. Gal-
lagher, I beg of you.”
“Yer ’Onner,” said Mr. Glubber, bobbing
up in sudden passion from his seat at the
Bar-table, “I have decided to throw up my
brief. In all the course of my Bar practice
never been so insulted—gross scurrility—
insupportable—honor of this great profes-
sion—disgusted.”
“All because I asked him why he wasn't
at the war!” complained Ishmael in pained
tones.
"Be silent, sir!" roared the Judge.
“My friend Mr. Flipson will continue the
cross-examination of respondent,” said
Glubber: “he is fully seized of the shame-
ful particulars.”
Mr. Flipson, K.C., rose and-bowed to the
Bench. Mr. Glubber gathered up his books
and departed. An expression of blank
amazement overspread the features of Mr.
Gallagher. He looked at his wife and his
lips silently fashioned the words: “Well, I’m
d —d!” Mrs. Gallagher shrugged her
shoulders, almost imperceptibly, as though
to say: “Don’t blame me for their foolish-
ness, my dear. / can’t help it.”
Mr. Flipson, a pillar of the Church, one
from whom morality literally oozed, turned
sadly in the direction of Ishmael.
“I will begin,” he said, “with some of
your manifold acts of cruelty to your un-
happy wife. Do you recall an occasion on
which you threw a kitchen dresser at her?”
A stifled cry came from Gulfless, the in-
sl ructing solicitor.
“I never threw a dresser at anyone in
my life,” said Ishmael with an air of recti-
tude.
“Remember, sir, you are on your oath. I
repeat the question: ‘Did you or did you
not throw a kitchen dresser at your wife?’”
Gulfless tugged at Mr. Flipson’s gflwn.
“It was a dipper." interpolated Mrs. Gal-
lagher.
“Of course, I never threw the dresser.”
said Ishmael to the Court in general.
“Abserloot dam’ rot!"
“Beg pardon, ver ’Onner.” muttered Flip-
son fumbling with his papers and glasses,
(Continued on next page.)


REPORT FROM
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S.
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., Met Soe., F.R.C.1., late Government
Meteorologist of Queensland, and of Mount Kosciusko Observatory, also late lecturer to
the Government of India and founder of the Wragge Museum at Stafford, Eng., writes the
following unsolicited letter, the original of which may be seen at qur office:—
Messrs. Foster McClellan
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Port Pirie,
April 19.
A^ ( l 11 } e wee^s a ff° rins t l—ve canglit a chill, and thereafter I suffered agonies from
backache. A friend suggested that I should try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and this I did.
I am now about to state a simple fact, an 1 that is that one bottle of these pills completely cured
.This testimonial is entirely unsolicited, and I send it in the hope that it may benefit humanity,
and foi no othei reason whatever. Ihe proof of the pudding is in the eating,’ and you may
be sure that I am grateful, inasmuch that I am now able to continue my nightly scientific lectures
in ease and comfort.
You can publish this as you think fit.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S.,
Scientific Lecturer.
i • Pain , ITI tlie J )ack I ls the kidneys’ signal of distress. If this timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its deadly grip—for
kidney sickness first shows itself in pains and disorders in other parts, and the real cause is too often hidden until fatal kidney disease or
diabetes has set m Suspect the kidneys if you are rheumatic and nervous, or have lame back, painful, too frequent or scanty urination, weak
heart, dizzy spells, headaches, bloating or neuralgia What you want is a special kidney medicine—not an experiment, but one that has stood the
test tor years. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve weak, congested kidneys—mire backache—regulate the urine. Doan’s Backache Kidney
n lt> iave been curing lame backs and sick kidneys for years. Doan’s Pills are made from onlv the purest drugs, and are absolutely non-poisonous.
1 hey are used and praised all over the civilised world. ' ' J
lf Joan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or vill be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
m
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
m
m
‘my instructions distinctly said kitchen
dresser. However, dipper be it. Now, sir”
tto Ishmael), ‘‘attend to me, and remember,
it you please, no lying. Did you or did you
not throw a kitchen dipper at vour wife?”
“I did.”
“Ha! We are petting on. We begin to
unearth things. And when did this disgrace-
ful assault take place?”
. It wasn’t disgraceful. The thing never
hit her.”
... paltering now. Take your medicine
liKe a man. Answer my question. When
did you do it?”
‘‘On June 15 of last year.”
, ‘‘The attention to detail will suggest to the
Court, as it does to me. the methods of the
perjurer. But let it pass. I turn to”
"Do you want to know how I remember
the date?”
“If you can explain it, sir.”
, H happened the same night you
.coked in at my wife’s sister’s place to advise
her about that collusive divorce suit of
hers.”
“Yer ’ Onner!” began Flipson distractedly.
“My wife will remember,” continued Ish-
mael, heedless of the uproar around him. "It
was a Thursday, if you recollect, my dear.
He dictated the letter Minnie was to write
to Fred, an’ I .said, exactly as Fred had just
done, ‘lt’s too dam’ literary. The Judge
won’t believe such an ignorant woman could
have done it,’ and you said ‘lgnorant your-
self ! She can write as well ns you,’ an’ I
said, ‘Don’t be a dashed fool!’ and then you
threw a brush an’ I threw the dipper. Or
was it the other way round?”
Amidst cries from the Judge, his associate,
the ushers and Flipson, Ishmael’s counsel
arose and formally withdrew from the case.
"My juniors and the instructing attorneys are
doing likewise,” he said brokenly. “Never
in whole course professional career—unprece-
dented situation—gross reflection —honorable
profession—lying charges—unthinkable—vile
infamy—God forgive him, I never can.”
“Chuck the case if you like,” said Ishmael
equably—“my troubles! I’ll defend myself.”
“You will go to prison, sir,” cried the
Judge. “And there you will remain till
such time as you have purged your gross
contempt of this Court, and learned how to
behave yourself.”
A moan came from Mrs. Gallagher.
“But he told the truth, yer ’Onner,” she
cried. “Mr. Flipson did write Minnie’s let-
ter for her. It was alf done as between
friends, he being Fred’s first cousin. And
I’m sure he meant no harm.”
“Silence, woman !” thundered the Judge.
“All a lot of hypocrites!” shouted Ishmael,
as he was led away. “Hypocrites, humbugs
and frauds! i’ll expose the lot of you !”
A door banged behind his gesticulating
form. An awed silence fell upon the court.
* * * *
Many and varied were the views taken of
the affair by the public. One of the morn-
ing papers, while disclaiming any intention
of referring to matters which were suh
judice, felt impelled, nevertheless, to touch
tersely on what it termed “a side-aspect of
this most distressing case”:—
Statements have been made involving and reflect-
ing upon the honor of those to whom we turn, as
the magnet to the pole, in our search for the
mainspring or fountain-head of our State’s judicial
system. Such statements may or may not have been
justified, whether wholly or in part. If unjustified
the author of them is to be reprobated with all
the repudiative force at the disposal of the body,
social and politic: if they are capable, in how-
ever slight a measure, of justification, then no steps
were too drastic to express, to an adequate and
fitting extent, the community’s horror and detesta-
tion of so discreditable a state of affairs.
Aii evening paper wrote in a flippant vein,
and, in a set of topical verses entitled “Tell
us something, Issy, that we didn’t know
before,” compared Gallagher to a retailer of
chestnuts.
Meanwhile he remained in prison. But
news of his activities percolated daily to
the outside world. He expressed indiffer-
ence as to how long he remained there. He
was occupying his time getting up a power-
ful case against both branches of the legal
profession. He had even acquired a good
deal of sensational matter respecting certain
Judges. The longer he stayed in gaol the
more information his agents would be able
to collect; and the more damaging his
assaults would be, consequently, when they
came to be launched. It is casting no reflec-
tion on the lawyers to state that they were
panic-stricken. None knew what dark corner
of his life was waiting to be bared. Here
was one who on being insulted cast insults
back; who on being charged with sins re-
taliated by accusing his accusers of crimes;
who, in short, declined to play the game
according to the established rules, and who
was indifferent to the only weapon which the
legal fraternity had to guard its reputation
—the threat of gaol. The sympathy of the
workers was all with Ishmael. He also had
ttye support of the well-to-do who had been
swindled by lawyers in one way or another,
or who had been the victims of truculent ad-
vocates as litigants or witnesses. In fact,
Ills well-wishers numbered about SO per cent,
of the population. His wife’s solicitors
hawked the brief in her case from one
chamber to another. No one wanted it.
“Why not treat him gently?” one famous
barrister was asked. “Let him down lightly,
as it were. What necessity is there to stir
him up by being insulting?”
“In the first place, I don’t know any other
way to cross-examine. They may do it dif-
ferently in London and New York : they may
have treated hostile witnesses like gentle-
men in the old days here; but the fashion is
dead. Anyhow, what guarantee have I that
he won’t turn on me, no matter how well I
treat him. No, my boy, I want nothing to
do with the case. Take it somewhere else.”
The strange position now was that neither
the petitioner nor the respondent had any
counsel. Ishmael had even been repudi-
ated by his solicitors. And yet it was im-
possible that he should remain permanently
in prison. Nor could Mrs. Gallagher re-
main indefinitely undivorced. An intoler-
able and scandalous situation was suddenly
solved by one of those whims to which the
irrational female mind is so prone. Despite
the shocked protests of her solicitors, she
insisted on visiting Ishmael at the gaol. She
implored his forgiveness for what had taken
place. She expressed contempt and detesta-
tion for all lawyers; and in particular for
those practising in divorce. She besought
him to let bvgones be bygones, and to resume
the old life. He agreed. The Judge joy-
fully ordered his release. The dinner and
dance given to the reunited pair by their
friends was one of the celebrations of the
year. They have maintained their position
as leaders of society ever since.
10-2-4.
The Pitiable Canvasser.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
I PITIED him from the outset.
I am quick to pity. I have been
known to pity my bootmaker, who
always makes such a sacrifice for me just
because he has known me so long. It is
pathetically chivalrous, I think, for a
struggling tradesman to charge his old friend
less than the common herd.
When I talked matters over with Lucille
years ago she asked me if I was insured,
and made me promise to become so as soon
as possible. Of course I promised. I would
have promised anything in those delirious
days.
But I never did, and when I opened the
door and found him on the step I felt as
many a sinner must feel when he sees
Nemesis pointing an accusing finger at last.
My Nem. wore spectacles, a felt Tiat,
a sloppy sort of tweed suit and a smile
worn threadbare on suburban doorsteps.
1 I knew he was an insurance traveller in
a second. And he knew I was a victim
even sooner.
I wilted. I asked him inside and then
I went to lind Lucille. We found him open-
ing his pocket-book and producing little cards
covered with figures to fire at us.
I lurked in the background reflecting what
strange freak of evolhtion had turned the
highwayman into such an unromantic raider
of household peace and quiet. There was
a day, I sighed to myself, when I might
have snatched down a pair of horse-pistols,
had a duel with him from the front window
and handed over his carcase to the watch
to the sweet accompaniment of Lucille’s
shuddering admiration. And still they call it
civilisation when a man can come into your
home, point a card at you and rob you of
your happiness whilst you stand helpless in
your slippers.
From this train of reflections I awoke to
the realisation that Lucille was talking. It
is a thing I have often done. Frequently
it is her silence which awakes me from a
reverie in the same way that the stopping
of the murmur of the battery-stamps used
to wake me at night when I was a youngster.
“Time and time again,” she was saying.
“But he wouldn’t, not even when I told him
that his father had to sell out his yard of
orpingtous, wyandottes and brahmas to pay
some horrid fellow.”
“My dear!” I protested. “My father
never owned wyandottes.”
“Be quiet, Henry,” she snapped. “I was
talking of my father. Everybody came to
see his wyandottes. I remember that there
was one gentleman who used to bring me
chocolates.” ,
I groaned inwardly. Is there any woman
on earth who can forget the idiots who once
brought her chocolates? It looked like a
reflection on me, anyhow. “But, my dear,”
I began, “I also brought you chocolates.”’
She looked at me stonily. “How many
more times are you going to 'interrupt?” she
asked acidly. “I was just telling this gentle-
man about the awfully foolish conduct of
my younger brother in-not-getting-insured.”
The last four words were uttered with an
awful emphasis.
I subsided.
“My younger brother,” she went on to
the hapless invader, “acted like an idiot.
The girl he married didn’t know a thing
outside of dress, and not everything in that
She didn’t wear jumpers until three weeks
after Bella Phluff had one, and goodness
knows she's slow enough. And she thought
it was a great joke when she found some lip
salve in Dulcie Flatt’s bag by accident, but
I know for a fact that she uses it herself.
Well, my younger brother refused to get in-
sured. He’s got the loveliest home that you
could ever wish to see. We are going over
there next year to stay for a while. Have
you ever been to Sydney? Perhaps you
know the place? I have never been there
yet, but I have seen pictures of his
house”
Hope revived in me. I slid out through
the kitchen door. I caught a glimpse as I
went of the despairing face of the man in
spectacles, and it seemed that there was a
dumb appeal to the common humanity in
me not to desert him. My conscience is a
tender one, but I reflected that he had asked
for it.
I went out, and over the back-yard fence
I confided the affair to Walters. Some-
how it soothes me to tell Walters things.
He has a sympathetic nature. He told me
how he had once in a time of stress taken on
the job of a commercial traveller, and that
he was convinced that men must have hides
of leather and consciences of reinforced con-
crete to make a success of the game.
After half an hour or so I went back.
My wife was in the kitchen. The man in
spectacles was gone. “Hullo!” I said.
My wife looked up from the gas-stove.
“Well?” she said tartly.
“Is —is he gone?” I stammered.
“Gone! Of course, lie’s gone. I never
saw such sillies as men. I was only just
telling him about poor cousin Frankie, whose
premium ran out the day before he died,
when lie pulled out his watch and said that
he had a most important engagement to
attend to. He’s coming back, anyhow, so
you needn’t think you’ve escaped.”
But he has never come back.
I am quite sure I pitied him from the
start.
L. C. R.


Bfrs?
m? ■ a®.- ■;
- K- *
< r m
* .-■*■-
- '«Tt?
‘ > 3*3
*«, '■;
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
Vl'^t'nwL f J. n« 93 ' lO J f® a tberston Street, Wellington.
_VtS!£!3g!LpW<ce-08 Queen Street. Melbourne
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
MOR LICK’S
EX MALTED
| -MILK
The Ideal ,
Drink(Milk,Wheat,
[ and Malt). Keeps 1 ,
for years and never ,
becomes stale or loses]
any of its admirable j
qualities. It is made]
in a moment, any-/
where. Only water/
l needed. In hot climates it is i
invaluable.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
rT****. IKVM* 4 :
556
JWTh*
‘JMHjUL
HOJ*
»t«S
Remedy which has outlived the Genfen-tn*,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Mavy men.
" 13«!
wed Since 15U6. CURES Write for ReeV
f B GREEN N B Ho HT, i FA y ,N iP weak sight!
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wa Supply—
JAIvRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
685 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused I
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both,
your health and!
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dosa —Small Prioa.
GENUINE must
bear signature
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
£
<
£
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
818 Little Collins St*, Melbourne*
Tried and True.
|T took years of experiment to perfect Denby
1 engineering principles. But time has
proven the wisdom of Denby design under
every conceivable haulage condition. The
owner is- as proud of his Denby as the hunts-
man of his mount.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2j, 3\, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A,
Cable .Address: “Dentrux.”
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious*
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
beegham’s Pills
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beeeham’s Pills
AND MARK THE DIFFERENCE!
Sold ia boxes, labelled price 10|d (36 pills), 1/1£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
■ I, I
. ■ ■
ii
:
:■ '?,/
Razor, Vulcanite
_ 0/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle
Handle,
, 15/6.
Shaving: with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of.
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2. i
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY ‘‘Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
RAZORS. Dlt l°,’ ™ Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
ine Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated I
Folder I
REMINGTON CMC Mji “
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
m
2 2
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire ‘.22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
. Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4£lb. PRICE £6 net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. J. J>. KNIGHT.
COWLES & DUNN. P. LASSETTKR k CO., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK k KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Firms:—
ALDERSON’S, LTD. BRISCOE k CO., LTD. W. S. FRIEND & CO
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. HALES, LTD. J. 1' knight
HOLDS WORTH, MACPHERSON & CO. • PAUL k GRAY, LTD., Brisbane, Q.
. nS?es brothe S rs NS Ltd D ‘ T - b - hooper & °°- Brisbane ’ i
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers:—•
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
-TIL should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
“Dreadnoug'ht”Wire Strainer
126
Post Free
in Use.
( Patented )
M
12/6 “t
With Fall Particulars
&
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE m


Born 1820 —Still going strong
S 3
ftli
\ 1
/*
y
•-O ■
V\
fk
•-V-"
Ife m
/
' i x 7
v'>
- /'
<k
-
cs
Hi
?mw*t 1
rc
W/
M
m
r
''•vs
*<*. i
vc
££
a?
>'•
V'f I
f;
i
ki
a
iCT
7
1
y,/A\
»•*» '■*&?*/£ 1
.m '
g'k
SM,
m
i
Si
Yil i
W
as?//
<o*
<gSB
0
% 1
C l
■1
a
n
*
p**
\NS
Ni
VI
V,
X
/
l«
-2^
Sk
W-
X
v^'\4s
X
/Y
ss
V 1,
\y
n 1
X
/?/>
:il
a;
mr/ym
Jj
m*.
at
XyK^
\ ' , /
\' // /
V /
\ok
/V,
Vavr
at the,
//
S(A° n D
1, e nfl
SOttG)
JcM 1 " 6
v^GUSVt
be
iter
8»
■/ V-V
;;r
«M<«» tVIC
m
o\\ dear
m
%
Harmony has always been the keynote of "Johnnie IValker ”-—its
parts are blended in perfect unison. There is nothing discordant in its
composition. Since 18 20 its praises have been sung all over the world
mm
Every Drop over
SO Years Old
In Non-refillable Bottles.
0 1 - '
' ' m -i,.
To safeguard the age, our policy for the future is our policy of the fast. First & foremost to see
that the margin of stocks over sales is always large enough to maintain our unique quality ,
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK,
and at S YD RE Y and MELBOURNE.
