

The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. Q. WATKINS &Z, 00„,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
ADVANCE
MONEY
ON
TERMS
J.'N
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
SW-MONT de PIETE
D * I C9Y LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St. 74. Sydney
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone City 5325
flr<?/7c/?e s jt- 29 King St..Newcastle, N-S W- ?I&'I7 SwanstohSt Mei^Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. !97 A C.astiereagh StJS9 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph IV Hill. General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D'. and I. Co. Ltd.”
For unfavorable climatic and working
conditions we recommend
CHROMOL
(Chrome Tan Leather),
The Super Driving Belt.
It gives longer and more efficient service.
J.C.LudowiciS Son Ltd.
Tanners & Leather Belting Makers,
Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
THE BEST !
u
m
(ft
U
0,0.
u
m
%
252
m.
nd
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors us being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
ive oraahs.
L
For INDIGESTION
DYSPEPSiA
One of these specially prepared Tablets
most beneficially when taken daily
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals,
n
“Not the same as others*”
Ready-Roofing
Malthoid lasts longest—there is no --question of its durability,
stability or power to resist the severest heat, rain or wind.
Use Malthoid for large or small buildings—homesteads, bungalows,
factories, workshops, garages, sheds and poultry houses.
Illustrated Booklet and actual samples post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis
House, Sydney.,
A new and revised edition of the
“ Referee " is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
■
the Commonwealth
J.D.K.Z.
(The Square Bottle with
the Heart-shaped Label.)
RME, KEIGWIN (Q. Co., Ltd., SYDNEY.
A PRIEvSTMAN GRAB does work o/ 40 MEN,
in handling' Clay, tSand, Mud, Rock, Coke, Coal, etc.
ONE big contractor bought a Priestman Grab and showed a
saving of £2640 per annum on his investment. The
Priestman is entirely British and admittedly the highest
type obtainable. Harbor Boards, Government Departments and
contractors in every countiy use Priestman grabs for their
iability under all conditions. A Priestman never breaks down,
re are 150 types, let us quote you.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and
Darling
Also from J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth ; and CHAS. E. BERNAYS, Fitzroy Building's, 125 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay-
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2126.
Thursday, November 11, 1920.
Price 9ch
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TR E EW LIBR ARY CATALOGUE
1920 is flow ready, and will be posted
; to any address on application.
BYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD, 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt
What the sth “Divvy” Did
■' ■
7m
ff, ' pi
t f i
SRysS®? '-Ac.m 4i ,/ -”':' v "./ *•»J
Told in
The Story of the
Fifth Australian
Division
By CAPT. A. D. ELLIS, M.C.
Being an authoritative record of the Divi-
sion’s doings in Egypt, France and Belgium.
Illustrations and Maps..
Price 18/- Postage 1/-
FROM YOUR BOOKSELLER
or
Melville & Mullen Pty., Ltd., 262-4 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The better the Pen
the better the deed.
If it be hard writing at the desk
—Waterman’s Ideal. Nothing
else so good. Speeds the work
and improves its quality. If it be
ordinary corresponden ce—then again
Waterman’s Ideal is triumphantly the
best. With a quickness that is as
gratifying as it is surprising, letter after
letter is finished and you find yourself
through the job in half the time. This
speedy pen is making life easier for
millions of people. Why not,be one of
the number ?
Waterman's
Heal)
FountaiiiPen
Three Types:
**Self-Filling," "Safety,” and “Regular."
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere•
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd.
Cheapen Comer
London, England. '
cm 111 1117 11 rmim nmn rTffi nimmi irrrrTrrn
N
vS;;/
1
7%>
ik
\%tK
Ss/Xi
Jf?
m
, .'Jidmdifr.
CTreatu z?WljLl__
><l r I ■
■V. ■
v. 7
' '
m.
W.
S 4 5
o. wt>l\ <4 A/ifr'A 111 A
The man who insists that his
shirts bear the Thistle Brand
gets everything in shirt quality.
No shirt making can surpass
Thistle —no shirts are better
fitting—none are drafted and
cut more accurately nor
made and finished more ex-
pertly. No shirts offer more
in fabric, pattern, color and
style than Thistle Shirts.
Procurable at all leading
clothing departments where
Thistle Pyjamas are also to
be found.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers Brisbane and Sydney
AS 59
s
%
0
j
W
-,nci
See!'
each
oti
jilrr
l
r
IS
&
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
mustdie:
WON FDCSOWOifI POWODL
(Flies.
Fleas.
Bogs.
Mosquitoes
|MU3
n»i <3O
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for~
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient’ par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
everywhere* by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeep
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.Q., Sydney.
The Red Page
“Ouida”
When I was a boy we Were all snobs —
incorrigible, heartbreaking snobs. Given that
you are a boy who has not yet tumbled to
the immortal lie that one man is different
from another, this is a very happy state of
mind. The grown-up people, of course, have
their own uses for the thing (good, earnest,
professional men slogging away at their task
of serving their betters in patience), and
when you habitually use a thing, in the
first place you can’t be consciously happy
with it, and, in the second, you know it so
well that pretty soon you get wise to its
thin places. By the time this latter is estab-
lished, however, it is too late; so you join
the ring round the mulberry-bush, close your
eyes and carry on, the real zest of the game
having gone to Blazes. But a boy is quite
different. No archbishop-client has played
him a dirty trick; no countess has shown
him any servants’ hall qualities, nor any
lord stepped, burglar-wise, from his ineffable
lordly path in the boy’s shocked vision,
lienee, all this is a happy, most interesting
state of affairs. One house is larger and
sweeter than another, sheltering more ser-
vants, eating more and daintier food, living
a wider, more honorable and gentle life in
the eyes of a gratified God. Some go afoot
and some bask in carriages. To some all the
locked mysteries of life are an open book in
their Mayfair boudoirs, and no urgent pro-
blem of their fathers’ cut-down trousers
comes in haunting shame to them. It is
good; there are clearly steps in the world
whereby an energetic boy can rise to the rich,
deep-carpeted and tapestried place where
Romance sits waiting for him, and where
no more he need run, a zany in his overalls,
to the corner-shop.
In those happy days Walter Scott had
■•tones of the great people of the earth to
tell me, but they were yarns of the chival-
rous past when anything might be. Also,
they smacked a little depressingly of history.
Disraeli had a fine flow of language and a
noticeable respect for his more contempo-
raneous betters. I felt that he was unlocking
some of the mysteries for me, if his lords
were a little lifeless and mechanical. Bulwer
Lytton, too, had a go at me, but he was not
JhLtters; on his own level
of My Novel” he spoke more freely and
much more tunefully. Dickens and Thack-
eray had no respect for anything; I had to
wait some time before I even understood their
singularly ill-mannered and flippant point of
view.
But “Ouida” got to me like a shot. She
was the real thing. Here they all were,
human people, but smooth and gentle; well-
born and rich, but not dismally charitable
and moral; handsome and well-dressed, but
not forever leading their armies into battle
01 ‘ saving lost causes. Here Romance
walked easily and earele&sly, Romance
modern and close at hand—any demigod I
passed in Piccadilly might have a gold
moustache-brush, a shocking reputation and
a soul of unstained honor. Likely enough
he was hopelessly beloved of a hundred beau-
tiful duchesses, yet would take his mous-
tache-brush and his diamond-studded slippers
to a poor vivandiere. “Chandos” gloomed
about his wondrous house, and the thin
futility called “life”; “Moths” fluttered gor-
geously round a candle which must be shin-
ing somewhere; and “The Massarenes” went
stately and sardonic to their doom as to
their dinner. I was getting at the root of
the matter at last. “Ouida” was painting the
pictures full of life and color; she fed my
imagination with rich, highly-flavored
Romance until it nearly burst. I wallowed
in the books—played in solitude all the male
parts in the thunderous, lavish scenes, rid-
ing forever on the heels of tragedy and in-
credible happiness. Somewhere on earth all
this was; and I, distinguished, rich and
noble—bored with my nobility, etc., in fact
—would find it-, and be at peace from my in-
herited trousers and boots.
I didn’t find it; I grew up. Later, when
as many of the mysteries as was good for
me had been rather roughly unlocked, I read
Ouida” again. I found that she was really
an artist, that her complete ascendancy over
my not idiotic young imagination was quite
legitimate. Setting a'fide her absurdly hand-
some, over-colored, over-rich, over-tired cen-
tral characters, what is wrong with her
work? / should like to have written a lot
of her glowing descriptive chapters, over-
stated and lavish in confusing detail as they
may be. The word “glowing” is important;
the matter must have been written in a wild
rush, a flood of* incessant detail filling up
the huge canvas in a momentary vision, the
fervor of whose relation comes only from
inspiration. It hangs together most strongly
and patiently even now when the romantic
method is these 20 years. In
In Maremma” and “Two Little Wooden
Shoes” the tenderness and poetry which are
in all the books are most simply and happily
dominant. “Under Two Flags” is a fine
yarn, leaving out, of course, the ass with the
turquoise-hilted toothbrush; it is a good,
strong plot; the French scenes are all con-
vincing. and the leading lady is attractively
and passionately alive. “Ouida” very often—-
culpably often—wrote of matters of which
she was ignorant; the home-life of an officer
in the Household Guards was one of them.
So was the state of any “aristocratic” mind,
male or female; so was the furnishing of any
house, the behavior of any
aristocratic” group. It was unlucky that
she wrote of these things ; but it was remark-
able that writing appallingly falselv of
them in nearly every, book she "neverthe-
less got such moving, vivid copy into print.
When she leaves the fashionable people alone
the result is almost perfect in flowing music
of poetic prose as clear as running water and
as expressive and rich as the early work of
Thomas Hardy.
She didn’t solve any problems for me, but
she gave me some magic months of dream-
ing ; and she gave thern, not by her settings
and characters, but by the power of her
artist s pen— that got the whole lot to me
The boys of my period were mostly fools
as were the readers “Ouida” thought she had
to eater for. That doesn’t matter. We shall
Jill pass unlamented, but the best of “Ouida’s”
work will be long in passing, I think, when
posterity has looked at it again, and sorted
it out a bit.
DENIS MAHON.
History in Wonderland
An exquisite caricature by Max Beerbohm
depicted himself, newly returned from a
visit to foreign parts, finding that G. B.
Shaw was still standing on his head. In
Modern English Statesmen (Allen and
Unwin) G. R. Stirling Taylor persist-
ently stands on his head from Crom-
well to Disraeli. It is a gratifying and
on the whole easy thing to ”epater les bour-
geois” on these lines. The recipe is to take
a historical truism, climb on to an intellec-
tual eminence with it, and demonstrate to
the groundlings below that it is an absurdity.
The contemporaries of the elder Pitt consid-
ered him the one true statesman whom Eng-
land had evolved. Authorities like Stanhope
and Rosebery have acclaimed his son as a
great and honest man. So Mr. Taylor writes
this way:—
He [the elder Pitt] ruled England by a whirl-
wind of rhetoric. It was the method and mind of
the gushing schoolgirl translated to suit the habits
of a very pompous gentleman whose chief character-
istics were ambitious pride and gout. But there is
one qualification that must be made, lest any should
think this criticism too harsh. In judging the career
of this man whom the historians find to be one of
the most ideal of English statesmen, it is necessary
to remember that, in the medical sense, he was not
entirely sane It was William Pitt (the younger),
the idol of our school histories, who gave this
delusion and absurd infatuation rthe Sinking Fund]
to his adoring country as his contribution to the
national finance. One rubs one’s eyes in amazement.
It would seem that if these Pitts are to survive in
history they must be measured by the standards of
a lunatic asylum, and not by the rules of sane men.
The Pitts were a race of charlatans: they should
rank not with the statesmen but with the great
conjurers of the music-hall stage William the
Younger was not corrupt; he did not possess enough
brains to have kept himself afloat for a week in a
life of crime, for crime needs skill of a sort. He
was an intellectual nonentity rather than a knave.
The Pitts being the comic villains of the
national drama, who is the hero? Robert
Walpole, the genial, cynical careerist who,
finding himself in possession of £2OOO a year,
decided to be not a Norfolk curate, but a
London politician; Walpole who, unlike
either of the Pitts, left office with his pri-
vate affairs in a very much better condition
than he found them—so much better that he
was able to spend a quarter of a million ster-
ling on Houghton, thereby transforming it
from a modest country gentleman’s home into
one of the show places of England—-and who
nl 8 ® distributed political jobs worth between
£15,000 and £20,000 a year amongst his
family:—■
This wholesome man, scenting of English wheat-
fields and turnips, came in an age when the moral
drains of Westminster were in bad .order; still more,
he was followed by a period when English politics,
mainly under the influence of the two Pitts, sank
to a depth that would have made a far worse man
than Walpole look bright aftd clean. To pass from
the russet-brown virtues of this Norfolk squire to the
fragile conventions of the younger Pitt, is like going
from the open air of a country lane to a hospital
ward.
Most of us think of Walpole chiefly as the
one English Prime Minister who not only
thought that bribery and corruption were the
best policies but said so. Far otherwise Mr.
Taylor:—•
The essential facts about Robert Walpole are so
often matters very closely connected with his private
character. He was probably the most honest Chief
Himster England had possessed since Anselm
Walpole was an honest man in an age when most
politicians were more than half rogues.
One of the few_ evident consistencies in
this strange book is that the author should
put Disraeli in the pantheon with Walpole.
They both went up to London from the
country as political adventurers: both wore
fortune-hunters (though Disraeli married
money whereas Walpole got it els'ewhere) ;
both were regarded by most people during
most of their lives as humbugs; and both
completely got round their sovereigns. And
what beyond his undoubted mentality were
the outstanding qualities of Disraeli? Natu-
rally (since the people to whom the author
most objects considered the Jew to be an
over-dressed posturer who went “hung in
chains like a convict”) :
Disraeli was perhaps the only English statesman
who combined historical knowledge with imagi-
nation and the nature of a gentleman. But there
were never enough other gentlemen of imagination.
There is a key to this enigma of an able
Fl an Putting hi s name to arrant nonsense.
Mr. Stirling Taylor is not out exclusively
to be smartly paradoxical. His views are
highly colored by his prejudices. He is
first of all a pacifist, which accounts for his
hatred of the Pjtts and his admiration for
Walpole, to whom the national honor was
nothing by comparison with the national
exchequer. But Disraeli was as imperialistic
as any Pitt. True. He was, however, a
medievalist—if only in theory—and the
author is furiously mediaeval. He quotes
Disraeli freely against the Reformation:—
If we must have an aristocracy I would rather that
its younger branches should be monk 3 and nuns than
colonels without regiments' or. housekeepers of royal
palaces that exist only in name.
. jDfere were.... of monasteries and chantries con-
siderably upwards of 3000, many of them of exqui-
site beauty The monks were never non-resident.
They expended the revenue amongst those whose
labors had produced it.
No one dealt more stinging blows to the
aristocracy of commerce which came in with
the Industrial Evolution than Disraeli. He
raked its leaders fore and aft with epigram,
while he did their work in India and Egypt
and got their votes at home. Mr. Taylor
hates commercialism and Protestantism and
the complacent Public School spirit, and his
blood boils when he thinks of the factories
of the early Victorian period; and so he
turns sympathetically to those figures in
English history who, even if they did not
do any damage to such institutions, or even
try to, yet sneered very effectively at the
people who were openly upholding them. To
express him in a phrase, he can stand any-
thing but smugness.
J. B. D.
(Continued on page 24.)


u
vae
Keenest Values
in Hand Bags.
QA. —Morocco Hand Baer,
Envelope shape, 21/-, 30/-,
32/6, 33/6, 36/-, 40/-,
47/6 up to 90/-
QG. —B lack Tucked
Morocco Hand Bags,
leather-covered frame, fasten top,
leather lined . . 18/-
Q.C. —Black Morocco
Peggy Bags, 9/6, 10/6,
12/9, 21/-, 35/-, 37/6
H :
2
QE. —Silver-plated Chain
Bag, 40/-, 45/-
S&nilar designs, 12/6, 16/6,
18/6, 22/6, 24/-, 27/6,
32/6.
Q. 8.-
-Nickel-plated Bags,
18/6, 21/-, 25/-
m.
QH. —Children’s Strap
Bags in Patent 1/9
Pigskin 1/10, 2/8
-Art Leather Bag,
9/11
m
Q.F. —Art Leather Bags,
various designs, 8/6, 9/11,
11/-, 12/6, 16/6, 17/6,
27/-, 32/6, 39/6.
t ■, 1j
CX232. Teapot, Silver-plated on Britannia Metal,
2-pint size 55/-
CXI 38.—Hot Water Kettle, Silver-
plated on Britannia Metal, - v ""'"d
festoon design, 2-pint size .. £5/5/-
Anthony Horderns’ —Australia’s
largest retail store —through the
advantages of large resources and
systematic organisation have the
choice of the products of the
world’s best manufacturers, and
this is reflected in the High Stan-
dard Quality, wide variety and
unbeatable values of the mer-
chandise they sell. The examples
of Hand Bags and Electro-plated
Ware featured on this page are
chosen from an extensive and
varied stock and are representa-
tive of the unequalled values
maintained by The House of
Economy.
Write for Anthony Horderns’
Christmas Price Lists, which will
be ready in a few days.
Christmas Gifts and Toys,
Christmas Books, Christmas
Grocery.
Carriage Paid on Fancy Bags,
Cutlery and E.P. Ware in N.S.W.;
to the nearest port on Inter-State
and Island orders.
CX37B. —Cake Forks, in Silk-lined
newest designs in cutting edge
Cases,
25/-
Unequalled Values
in
Electro-plated Ware.
CXI 37.—Biscuit Barrel,
English Oak, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver Mounts.. 37/6
CX7955. Breakfast
Cruet, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, 3 Cut-Glass Bottles,
25/-
CXIOO. Egg Frame, Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver, 4
Gold-lined Cups and Spoons,
50/-
j v:
m
m
x
i*
\!
k** ■
iii
jiiu
rr
m
CXI 15. —Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut-Glass Bottles, complete
with Mustard Spoon.. 57/6
CXl22.—Sugar Scuttle
and Scoop, Silver-plated on
Britannia Metal, pretty chased
design 30/-
CX64G.—T oast Rack,*
Silver plated on Nickel Silver,
22/6
CX79. —Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut Glass Bottles, complete
with Mustard Spoon .. 52/6
os
sag
CX394. — Rose Bowl, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver,
diameter Bin., height 6in., on
Oak Plinth • • 70/-
CX234. Teapot, Silver-plated on
2-pint size
Britannia Metal,
/- 5O-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


m
%
The First Symptom of Every Form of Disease
Headaches are but symptoms of other
ailments to which they are merely sympa-
thetic, such as Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation or some other irregularity of the system. Head-
ache is an everyday occurrence with many people, and in its
visitations is no respecter of persons, rich and poor, man,
woman or child, under all climatic conditions —and knows
neither age nor color. Many women habitually suffer from
headaches, which make life a daily purgatory.
There are many everyday causes of headache depending on
digestion. One very fertile source is over-eating, partly caused
by changes in the blood, but partly also by the nervous
influence transmitted from the outraged digestive organs.
Abuse of alcohol produces a headache much in the same way
as excessive indulgence in food. Other headaches in this
category are the bilious ones, from the use of food which is
too stimulating.
To overcome headaches it is absolutsly necessary to gst at the cause. Drugs
which act on the heart and reduce the pulsation only havs a temporary offset.
Ifyou suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness, Constipation, Disorderofthe Liver
and Kidneys there is no better remedy than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They Make You Feel Brighter


PINKETTIS
FOR SICK HEADACHE
Most people suffer at regular
intervals from sick-headache. The
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the ideal
laxative to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. They
have no unpleasant effect to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such cases.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “ Bulletin.”
Die Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 0.P.0., Melbourne.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF f
THE AGE.
37/6
37/6
Hand Embroiderer
See Daily Demonstrations at
MARCELLES, Pitt Street, and
W. T. WATERS & CO., DTD.
Free instruction given.
(CELEBRATED
23
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few davs, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is' a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W.A. [i
m
m
few
Uiv.
m
Witt'
sS'N
iW,Y
%>>/>!
ten®
ai/
<UVxyj
Bs
H
’)(U
a
)|V<
ttw
><X»6
JSWf
ssz
X9B.
Art Bag of
Unique Design
X9B is one of our most handsome styles
in Art Handbags. It Is of solid leather,
with an inside slit pocket and nickel-
mounted purse, and handlaced gusset all
round. In gumleaf or conventional de-
signs. Size x inches.
Price 21/-
We pay postage throughout Australia.
Semi for our catalogue.
THE AMERICAN BAG STORES LTD.,
Corner King and Pitt Streets;
Strand Corner, Pitt Street;
Sydney Arcade, George Street;
117 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
And at 291 King Street, Newtown.
The Truss for
Comfort and Safety.
All ruptured persons who have not yet worn the
Denyer Elastic Truss should get in touch with this
Modern Safeguard straight away. The Denyer is a
different Truss—more comfortable, more efficient,
more trustworthy than any other appliance obtain-
able to-day. Thousands of ruptured persons already
wearing it keenly appreciate its service.
SINGLE, 30/-; DOUBLE, 40/-
Send for our Free Truss Pamphlet.
Truss
Specialists,
DENYER BROS.,
281 George Street,
SYDNEY.
-
There’s a lot of solid comfort
In a
GBD
I find
When Pm kind of out of humor
Or troubled in my mind.
the perfect pipe.
Many Popular Shapes.
Sold Everywhere.
iiiiiritllll
GBD
PORTLAND VICTORIA.
FOR PRIVATE SALE, “MARETIMO,”
CHARMING SEASIDE HOME,
Ideal Position, Magnificent Ocean View, Handsome, Substantial Stone Mansion, Twenty Rooms.
Wide Verandahs, Conservatory, etc. FIFTY-ONE ACRES LAND (Wire-netted),
Well-laid-out grounds, tennis-court, orchard, extensive outbuildings, stables, garage, five-roomed
gardener’s cottage, bathing-box, telephone, etc.
A GREAT OPPORTUNITY to Secure a Gentleman’s Seaside Residence, Furnished.
Particulars and photo, views of the property supplied upon application to
T. H. LAIDLAW AND CO., Hamilton and Melbourne;
and J. L WYATT, Portland,
Frotn whom also permits for inspection can be obtained.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Old Boat.
All day the raucous-throated sea-birds scream
Above the blackened hull sunk deep in
sand;
Each thundering wave rolls up to spread and
cream,
And, tentative, shoot out a fringbd hand
Beneath the fire-smirched timbers where
they stand
Immovable. And ’mid the frothy stream
Rib after rib holds taut against the din
Of howling storms that from the deep march
in.
Life once had held it dear; but now the dirge
Of long-dead things throughout its wreck-
age moans.
No longer does it hear the booming surge
Play havoc with the weed and sun-kissed
stones —•
Feels not through all its shell-encrusted
bones
The new-sprung life all day the breakers
urge,
Nor heeds the wild wind whipping from the
South,
And the ships rocking at the harbor mouth.
But when the day is fled, and inky dark
Swoops o’er the grass-grown hummocks,
and the sweet,
Wild sea-born songs thrill through the bat-
tered barque,
The sobbing outer wind and beckoning
sleet
Harry its ghost, till all its timbers beat,
And rotted beams that stood out stiff and
stark
Shudder and groan, and struggle to be free,
Hearing the' ribald chorus of the sea.
Again it hears the boiling waters hiss
About the running keel; once more it rides
The white-tipped wave and probes the green
abyss,
Or swan-like takes the whirling ocean-
tides. •
A shrill wind sings; along its glistening
sides
The jewelled waters curl, and fret, and kiss.
High up the rigging reaps the foamy flecks,
And laughter sounds upon the swaying decks.
Night long it strains; but when the drunken
moon
Reels off behind the mastheads, and the
skies
Spill rose upon the farthest pearl-pale dune,
The old black boat once more unstirring
lies,
Deaf, deaf again unto the sea-gulls’ cries,
Unto the dawn-wind’s trill, the sea’s full
croon,
Sunk deep in drifted sand, wraith-grey and
wan,
About its gloom the ghosts of things long
gone!
VICTOKIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Flower Dance.
You’d think it was a party
Dressed out to meet a bride,
To see the white pimelias
Upon the tall hillside;
With every bloom a-nodding,
A-dancing in the noon,
You’d think the breeze a piper gay
That piped a dancing tune.
They seemed like joyous children
Dressed out in rippling silk,
Those blithe and bright pimelias
With petals white as milk;
With every bloom a-nodding,
A-dancing on its stem,
You’d think the breeze a piper gay
That piped a jig to them.
’Twas yesterday I watched them,
The birds and I together,
The while my heart was like a bird,
As buoyant as a feather;
The birds they were glad witnesses,
And, through the saplings shaking
Bronze leaves and gold, they came all haste
To watch the merry-making.
You’d think it was a party
That gave you greeting fair,
To see the white pimelias
A-nodding to you there;
Green magic to bewitch you.
Bird-music to beguile—
You’d think the breeze put by his pipes
To dance with them awhile.
’Twas yesterday I watched them,
The trees and I together—
The happy trees that cool their roots
’Neath bracken, heath and heather.
With thrush and warbler singing sweet,
Now loud, now low to thrill you,
To see them dancing, nodding all,
’Tis wonder that would fill you.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Bookshop.
Within this place of pleasant idleness
Stand in long serried rows books old and
new;
Gilt pages with their rich dark bindings
press
Cloth covers in their faded jade and blue.
Turning the languid leaves one finds per-
chance
Half the fierce wisdom that the years have
wrought,
Bright-eyed adventure or rose-winged
romance,
The golden echoes of a poet’s thought.
Beyond the door stretches the busy street —
Voices, and laughter, and harsh merriment;
Within the trifler and the scholar meet
Amici a cloistered silence of content:
Here where a grey cat yawns with languid
grace,
Trimming her whiskers in dead Homer’s
face.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.


< 7 y
%
\\ %
-»
«
V
TTME
1
55
r
t*
V*
p
ur
V
y
&
THe Good Little Normey
and His Disciples.
R
ECENTLY the A.D.F.A. submitted samples of currants,
■ sultanas and lexias to Mr. C. A. Taylor, B.Sc., and Mr.
' Hennessey (Gordon Technical College, Geelong), who
congratulated the Sunraysed Settlements on the quality of their
fruit: “They are highly nutritious, easily digested, and most
beneficial foodstuff. . . growers can successfully compete against any
other country. . .sultanas are equal to and probably superior as a
foodstuff to any seedless grape grown elsewhere in the world,
your lexias are equal to the best quality American fruit.”
It is from a combination of these that the popular confection
The Little Normey is made. On sale all over Australia and New
Zealand.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2126.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE NEW PRESIDENT’S MANDATE.
UNCLE SAM: “Don’t you dare to recognise your old Aunt Europey, Hardin’. Remember she brung it all on herself.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All. communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.J);
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hostings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181(9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, i2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Golden Gate News Agency, -719
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet-—otherwise: Boz., 1-kd.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1920.
THE RAILWAY CURSE.
It might have been better if the devilish
invention of railways had been postponed for
at least a century and a half —speaking from
the point of view of Australia and especially
of the four States of N. S. Wales,'Victoria,
S. Aus. and Westralia. Perhaps a blessed
postponement of three centuries might have
been better still, and then the airship might
have arrived first and the Railway Age might
have been cut out and skipped altogether.
It is likely that many lamentable things have
been cut out and skipped simply because
while they were waiting to be born something
better was born instead. A railway, regarded
as an honest, unselfish, patriotic device to
give quick transit and to develop towns, sea-
ports and country places, has much to re-
commend it, though, compared with an air
or steamship track it is painfully immobile
as well as costly. The same good things may
be said about an army—even about a big
army—that is honest, sober, brave, well-led
and trained and armed, and is used exclu-
sively for defence. But nothing good can
be said of an incapable, plundering, brigand-
ish soldiery maintained for the o_ppression.
of those who pay for it. And there is little
to be said of a railway system planned partly
to depress practically every town except the
congested capital which lives on plunder as
did any old Rhine baron, and partly to pro-
vide loan jobs for the masses whom incapable
politicians don’t know how to employ other-
wise. Railways may thus become the resource
of the mentally destitute.
If Australia was part of a non-railwayed
world travel might be slower; but when all
the world went the same pace that wouldn’t
much matter. It would have less debt and
better roads. Instead of having a bankrupt
line and an execrable highway leading to
the same place, it could afford splendid ways
for motor-cars and other vehicles to run on
—such ways as the Romans used to make.
And it would have smaller cities, far more
and better towns and a far more diffused
population. The people would have spread
over the land as they did in England, France,
Spain or Italy, which had the luck to be
settled before iron ways were invented, and
before politicians like the strange sort that
grow in Australia saw in them a device with
which to distort, cramp, dwarf and make mis-
shapen the infant community. It is note-
worthy that every town of the least import-
ance in Australia, save perhaps purely tem-
porary mining freaks like Broken Hill and
Kalgoorlie, was created'before railways came.
Not one city has been created by them,
though room for new cities is plentiful
enough. But through the devious ways of
the men who controlled them they have'done
marvels in the way of blighting places with
promising beginnings. When roads were all-
sufficient people could make their own path-
ways to their own ports and run their own
vehicles on them. So they even built ships
—or what were ships then—at places like
Eden, Jervis Bay and Port Macquarie, which
are dead now. When a kind of road came
which was laid out, nailed down, owned and
ruled by one city authority, and a kind of
vehicle arrived that was the monopoly of one
city authority, this healthy progress ceased
and life got into grooves. If there had been
40 separate railway authorities (there are
that many scattered over the British Isles,
which are one-sixth the size of Queensland)
there might have been more points of view;
as it is, each State has only one point of
view that counts.
* * * *
In Westralia it is customary to enumerate
11 trade centres, reckoning Perth-Fremantle
as one, "and to lump some small fry together
as “other ports.” Between 1914 and 1919
all the small ports were on the down-grade,
in some cases the trade dropping 50 per
cent, or more. The supreme jest, however, is
Albany. It is a better harbor than
mantle ; in fact, it ranks high among the
five or six good harbors on Australia’s long,
inhospitable south coast. And it is con-
nected with the capital by a really service-
able railway, just as Sydney is connected
with Melbourne. But Perth, having been
lagged first, is the capital, and controls the
line. So Albany has just the same chance
as Sydney would have if. Melbourne State
politicians owned the whole track between
the two cities —in which case, by a careful
adjustment of rates, Moss Yale would pro-
bably be the place at which it would become
cheaper to trade with Melbourne. So the
shipping which entered Albanv dropped from
858,072 tons in 1907 to 370,331 in 1917, and
it is a decaying town of a little over 3600
people, while Perth shows 133,000. It was
from 1887 onwards that the Westralian
capital bloated out till it contains 43 per
cent, of the population of a State about
four times the size of Germany, and the rail-
way-building boom did most of it. In fact,
under strictly metropolitan management,
Perth began to empty the country. The
story of the decay of N. S. Wales outposts
has often been told : Twofold Bay has fallen
from a poor 147,885 tons of shipping entered
and cleared in a fairly good year to a poorer
21,160 in 1918, while the small fry lumped
together as “other ports” declined from
118,668 tons at their best to 21,795. These
were places which in pre-railway days had
a future and were in the race. Now they
have a past and are in the soup.
* * * *
But the supreme jest of railway-construc-
tion is the fine harbor of Portland in West-
ern Victoria. In the natural and geographi-
cal order of things it is the gateway for
the Western District up to the Murray, and
for the south-east corner of S. Aus., and it
is also an alternative outlet for places as
far away as Broken Hill. To-day it is the
mere ghost of what it was 40 or 50 years
ago; but it took millions of unproductive
loan expenditure to kill it. There is a little
line going north from the port, but it stops
early for fear of tapping the trade of the
West. At Cavendish, where it ends, the tra-
veller can take coach or dray or horse and
plod across a gap to Balmoral, where he finds
a railway going north to carry the trade to
the Adelaide-Melbourne line, and so by a
vast detour to Melbourne. There is really
a big and not very payable network of rail-
ways in Western Victoria, and the southern
tip of the network is Balmoral, which is no
place in the middle of nowhere. From there
Portland harbor could be reached by a 70-
mile run south if the network didn’t break
off. The available railway route from Bal-
moral to Portland, however, is first north,
then east, then north-east, then south-east,
then south-west and finally south—about
240 miles in all. Rather than get lost and
wander till it is grey-headed among a maze
of badly-served branch lines, to reach a
dead village by the sea where nothing is
allowed to happen, the trade from Portland’s
back door goes to Melbourne, just as the
trade from Albany’s back yard goes to Perth.
It would be somewhat the same if the Syd-
ney-south-western line stopped at Goulburn,
then everything went by horse-track to
Wagga, where a sidelong sort of system
carried it to Hay, and then after further
adventures it got on to something at Swap
Hill and reached the Yacfabank city that
way.
* * * *
This sort of thing doesn’t make for speed,
efficiency, profit, development or anything
else that is good or beautiful. The simple
fact is that railway-building in Australia
since the very early days has been neither
a business nor an engineering adventure,
but in the main a political affair. And in
the main the wrong kind of politician was
on the job.
THE PEOPLE WHO CRY PEACE.
A significant thing happened in Sydney
last week. J. S. Garden, who professes to
he a whole-hog Bolshevik, formed a Com-
munist Internationalist party. Comrade
Judd immediately called a meeting of the
Central Branch of the Socialist Labor party,
which expelled him.
* * * *
There is nothing to be gained by burking
the melancholy truth that the world, as a
whole, is much the same ethically as it was
in the Stone Age. The law of tooth and
claw still prevails over most of its surface,
the only essential difference being that,
whereas the caveman went after his enemy
alone and. with an axe, his descendants do
it as nations with machine-guns and high
explosives. Nothing worse is recorded in the
picture-history which was written in the
Tombs of the Kings at Luxor 5000 years
ago than the infamies of the last two Balkan
wars and the Great War that has just
ended. Everywhere people are robbing and
enslaving one another as the inmates of the
jungle did aeons ago, first as individuals, then
by families and then by tribes; and the fact
that the criminals profess to be inspired by
pious motives makes things no less unplea-
sant for their victims. It is because of this
that internationalism is such a distasteful
creed in the eyes of all but the feeble
or loafer nations. Those who own little but
feel themselves capable of acquiring much
will have hone of it, and neither will those
who have much and are confident of being
able to hold on to or even increase their pos-
sessions. So, while virile people like Aus-
tralians are ready enough to test that modi-
fied form of Sovietism which we call decen-
tralisation, and while they are as untiring as
any Bolshevik in educational and social
welfare work generally, yet at the back of
it all is the idea that these things are only
worth while, in the last resort, insofar as they
strengthen the hands of the national Govern-
ment. For without a strong central Gov-
ernment and all that it implies in the way of
sea. and land defence, none of the other insti-
tutions is worth five minutes’ purchase. In
every relation of international life the battle
goes to the strong and the spoils to the
alert and capable, practically regardless of
the merits of the case or the morals of the
combs f ants.
• • • *
“And so,” the Friend of Man will pro-
claim bitterly, “the arid materialism of our
opponents is admitted. There is no denial
that the world is a welter of strife, oppres-
sion and every sort of unrighteousness.”
That is so. But it is suggested that there
are better ways of ending a man’s troubles
than by cutting his throat. There is no
political patent medicine capable of setting
society right in one dose, and the fatal effects
of the revolutionary nostrum have been de-
monstrated at intervals all through written
history. A leaven is working in the right
direction; and naturally enough, in a sense,
the people who are striving hardest to nullify
its effects are those who can only envisage
reform through expropriation and the knife.
They condemn palliatives, and sneer at the
theory that any good can be done by public
opinion working on the natural good-feeling
of employers and employed. Yet no one who
has followed the social changes of even the
past century will question (1) that the lot
of the poor in the civilised countries has im-
proved more during that time (and par-
ticularly during the second half of it) than
in any previous period, or (2) that an
awakened social conscience has been the main
cause. Dickens and Hood have probably
saved almost as many from misery as Marx,
the inspirer of the Russian upheaval, has
plunged into it. In Sydney the other day
a man was called a rack-renter and a maker
of Bolsheviks. A foreigner and a Jew of no
particular standing in the community, it
might have been thought that he would take
the assault with something of the fortitude
shown by the great English landlords of the
18th century when the lampooners said
similar things about them. On the contrary,
he brought an action, in the course of which
he demonstrated that, whatever his ante-
cedents and so forth, this was a stain that
hurt him like a wound. A modern capitalist
who spoke even in private of the “lower
orders” as Burke was accustomed to
do in the House of Commons would earn the
reputation of being a lunatic; and not one
employer in a thousand would offer the wages
and conditions which were the rule here and
in Britain about the middle of last century
even je our mod''”n laws avowed it.
• • • •
It may He regrettable that the reformative
process cannot be accelerated. But no people
appreciate better than the Australians that,
however considerate they may school them-
selves to become towards the weak and the
unfortunate in their midst, yet the Millen-
nium is not going to arrive in their time, or
for that matter in their children’s time. For,
though they have progressed far along the
humanitarian road, and though they propose
to go as much further as the anti-palliative
sections will permit, yet in the national
sense the jungle still surrounds them, and the
cries of those who would prey on them are
often in their ears. And that is why the
J. S. Gardens are bound eventually to be
declared bogus by every responsible party to
which they attach themselves.
THE MINE THAT ISN’T WORKED.
The Australians are the only islanders in
the world who depend upon foreign enter-
prise for the bulk of the fish they eat. At
present they are paying about £lOO,OOO a
month for smoked and tinned fish caught in
Northern Europe and North America. Even
in 1915-16 they imported foreign fish to the
value of £906,000, which sum was greater by
about £lOO,OOO than the value of the Aus-
tralian take; they couldn’t be bothered to
catch their own fish even in a war year.
Yet fresh fish is more palatable than tinned
fish ( £715,000 worth of the tinned article
was imported in 1916-17 and £788,000 worth
in 1917-18, the period in which the German
tin-fish got in their deadliest work) ; and
Australia has 12,210 miles of coastline and
inexhaustible supplies of edible fish. It is
an unspeakably foolish policy from every
point of view, except that of the foreigner
who supplies the tinned sardine and salmon,
the kippered herring and the smoked ling.
* * * *
Apart from the indefensible waste of good
food, and the unnecessary outlay of labor
involved in dragging an inferior article from
the other end of the earth, to neglect the
national fisheries, in a country situated like
Australia, is to neglect the national defences.
Without her breed of fishermen Britain
might have lost the war. They were of price-
ess assistance to the Royal Navy in sweep-
ing up the German mines and fighting the
submarines. But if this island continent
were attacked by a formidable naval Power
tne K.A.a. would have no such tough and
intrepid auxiliaries, for in Australia there
is only a handful of fishermen, and most of
tnem are foreigners who would be useless
in war time, and might be worse than
useless. By no stretch of imagination could
ijiego the snapper-hunter and Kayakawa
the pearl-diver or Cabarito the shell-opener
be relied upon to man drifters or mine-layers
or submarine-fighters, or anything of the
kind. Development of the fisheries should
have been made part of the national repatria-
tion scheme. Given the right sort of
encouragement, thousands of soldiers and
sailors, to whom farming offers no attrac-
tions, would have taken to the business like
ducks to water. Whaling, pearling and the
getting of turtles, trepang and tortoise-shell
would have appealed to the adventurous
spirits, and others would have found their
vocations in providing fresh fish for the
home market, in retailing the article, in
establishing canning factories, in making fer-
tiliser and extracting fish oil. In this way
Australia would soon have become inde-
pendent of the foreigner on the other side of
the world, who exacts steep prices for his
tinned sardines and salmon, and of Diego
at this end, who chucks tons of good fish
into the sea rather than let the public have
it at reasonable rates. Moreover, the fisher
fleet would have been of the greatest service
to the Australian Navy in time of war.
But repatriation has been in the hands of
persons with a lamentabje lack of states-
manlike imagination, and the opportunity
was missed. A few Westralian soldiers have
been helped to start a canning factory at
Shark Bay, but no attempt has been made to
develop the neglected fisheries on a national
scale, and with a view to national-security.
* * * *
“Aquiculture,” said the Rresident of the
British Association for the Advancement of
Science, in his inaugural address, “is as sus-
ceptible of scientific treatment as agriculture
can be. An area of the sea may be more
productive of food for men than a similar
area of pasture or crops on land. In the
past the fisherman has been too much the
nomad and the hunter; he must become in
the future the settled farmer of the sea.”
But Australia, with possibly the finest un-
developed fishing grounds in the world to
work on, is still in the aboriginal or boomer-
ang stage of development. Its deplorable
Governments can’t even tackle the simple
and mechanical business of marketing fish
withdut showing that they have got nearly
everything to learn, and that they are in no
special hurry to acquire the knowledge.
One of the multitudinous Royal Commissioners
who “investigate” the things that happen in
N. S. Wales, from railway strikes to politi-
cians’ salaries, recently remarked, apropos
of the State trawling industry, that “there is
no special provision for the carriage of fish
to country depots.” Apparently the stuff is
just packed in boxes, covered with layers of
ice, and bundled into the guard’s-van, along-
side the sugar and butter. The gentleman
found also that, although “there is a consider-
able demand for smoked fish, so far ( i.e
nearly five years after the trawlers got to
business) the undertaking has not established
its own chambers, except at the coastal re-
ceiving depots, though the plant required
is of the simplest nature.” For various
reasons the wastage is enormous; in one
instance 23 tons of fish went bad in the
cold stores (the storage capacity, it seems,
is inadequate, and the unloading arrange-
ments on the wharves are primitive in the
extreme), and were sold to the soapworks.
There is a canning plant, “but so far no
work has been done.” There is also “a plant
for treating offal and fish waste with a view
to reducing it to fertiliser,” but it has never
been erected. It “has been lying idle since
the inception of the industry,” in 1915. “A
strong point was made at the initiation of
the scheme for the treatment of inedible fish
and fish waste. It was anticipated that a
considerable return would be obtained from
this source by the sale of the products, con-
sisting of fertiliser and fish oil, and that
thereby the cost of fish, and consequently
the price to the public, would be much
reduced.” But the machinery has been rust-
ing all these years and scores of tons of
fish that might have yielded valuable oil and
fertiliser have been dumped overboard or
sold for the price of offal, and the undertak-
ing showed a loss in four years of £37,400,
last year’s debit balance being close up to
£20,000. According to Chief Secretary
Dooley, the industry has turned the corner
at last, and is commencing to return a decent
profit. The statement is hard to believe,
but there is a useful moral in. it. The
moral is that if this muddled and benighted
undertaking can actually return a profit
under circumstances that would make a buck
nigger jeer, there ought to be untold wealth
in the Australian fisheries —N. S. Wales has
only the fringe of them—developed on scien-
tific lines.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Election that Was Won at Versailles.
Most elections on the national scale are
decided by hatreds rather than by pre-
possessions. The record Republican majority
which was scored in the U.S. Presidential
election last week was thus swollen inevi-
tably by solid Irish and German votes,
formerly Democratic, as well as by the sup-
port of the numerous section which, influenced
by the Heabst newspapers, dislikes the
“gol-darned Britisher” on general principles.
Governor Cox’s colleague, FeankLin Roose-
velt, typified pro-Englishism in the eyes of
these three classes. He was the man who,
as Assistant-Secretary of the U.S. Navy'
told the nation in July, 1918, that “60 per
cent, of the American troops in Europe had
been brought there in British ships, escorted
by British men-o’-war.” There is another
class which, while not greatly swayed by
racialism, argues that Britain has done too
well out of the war, and that the Demo-
cratic party, through Woodrow Wilson, ia
to blame. They insist that Britain “rules”
20,000,000 more people than it did in 1914,


that the newly-ahquired territory is tremen-
dously valuable, and that Wilson was
tricked into climbing down on the “freedom
of the seas” question. And then there are
the millions who vote merely’ as Americans,
as lovers of justice and freedom, and haters
of cant. Governor Cox challenged them
when, in accepting his nomination, he said:
“The Republican candidate proposes in plain
words that we remain out of the League;
as the Democratic candidate I am in favor
of going in.” But the League as originally
conceived is already a ruin, and every pass-
ing week proves afresh that the men who
framed it did not know their business. The
Kaiser was to have been hanged and Ger-
many “stripped.” The Kaiser remains in
Holland, not that the Allies were or are
incapable of taking him, but because re-
flection has satisfied them that he would
be more dangerous dead than alive. Ger-
many, far from being stripped, is being
assisted with loans and food, the victorious
Governments having long since realised the
peril of pauperising a white race 60,(X)0,000
strong. There was to be an end of terri-
tory-grabbing, and the Conference had hardly
risen before France, Britain and their late
ally Feisal were at loggerheads over Syria ;
self-determination for subject peoples, and
the business of repression is proceeding more
briskly in Ireland, India and elsewhere than
before the war-for-freedom was fought; uni-
versal peace, and the men who promised it
are equipping fresh expeditions every month.
Disgusted by the ineptitude or dishonesty
indicated by such facts, hundreds of thou-
sands of the electors who helped to give
Wilson his smashing majorities in 1912 and
1916 must have gone over to the Republican
side. As regards the Republicans proper,
the position was clear. One of the main party
principles always has been that the country,
as represented by Congress, must be free
to act independently of any other nation.
One Republican reservation to Article X of
the Covenant was that Congress should
decide in every case before the U.S.A. took
up arms for a member of the League; an-
other that Congress might maintain trading
relations with a nation which was at war
with the League. Yet, though the electors
voted in the mass to kill the League in its
present form, the people who entered the
war with such earnestness four years ago
must still have their ideals even as regards
the Old World and its troubles. It may well
be that in giving the tremendous mandate
they have to the, man who claimed their
votes, chiefly on the ground that the League
was a sham and useless, they went the best
way about getting something better. Presi-
dent Harping is a practical business man
who is understood to have a plan of his
own for winning the peace. Since it cannot
promise less than the Lloyd George-Clem-
enceait one and may easily promise more,
the world refuses to go into sackcloth and
ashes over his victory.
+-
Brother “Argus” and Comrade
“Worker.”
The price of wheat in Australia has been
fixed for the next 12 months at 9s. a bushel,
which is about 4s. a bushel less than the
present export value. Cocky is to receive
2s. 6d. a bushel on delivery of his grain
and scrip for another 2s. 6d. payable on
April 30; this latter, he is informed, is
equivalent to a 90-day bill, and his bank, or
some other philanthropist, will smash it for
5 or 6 per cent., or about three-halfpence a
bushel. The balance of the 9s. and the net
proceeds of foreign sales over and above the
guaranteed ss. will come along when the
money is available or the weather breaks.
It is not the best arrangement in the world
for Cocky, although in consideration of the
12 months’ guarantee his representatives on
the Central Wheat Board have accepted it
for him. He can still contend that he is
getting less for his grain than his D.S. com-
petitor has been drawing since 1917, without
reckoning the higher value of American
money. Even under the new arrangement
bread, as the Prime Minister points out, will
be cheaper in Australia than anywhere else
in the world. And although there is general
expectation of a good season, thousands of
farmers in N. S. Wales and Westralia —in
which State part of the crops has failed
owing to the non-arrival of Spring rain—
will have to ask the Government or the
bank to continue to carry them on. Cer-
tainly, ss. a bushel between December and
April, with no certainty of another pay-
ment for 12 months, won’t end the financial
difficulties of the 10,000 drought-stricken
N. S. Wales farmers whom the State Gov-
ernment has had to help. Nevertheless,
howls of wrath have gone up from the city
newspapers, Labor and Tory. The tumult
and the froth have their origin in the fact
that the new price of wheat may increase
the price of bread. For once the Age
agrees with the Argus that the thing is
flagrant and monstrous, and the Worker
agrees with both. That humorous organ
observes that the farmers have been “enjoy-
ing a prosperity never dreamed of in past
years.” In spite of the fact that not six
months ago their own Labor Government
had to raise a drought loan of £2,000,000
and apply it to the necessities of 10,000
distressed agriculturists, the young lions of
Labor journalism complain that the affluence
of these soil-ticklers is “fairly shrieking at
them at every turn.” And although Dunn,
Labor Minister of Agriculture in N. S.
Wales, proposed the adoption of the 9s.
rate, and Premier Theodore, of Queens-
land, supported it, Lambert, secretary of the
central branch of the A.W.U., characterises
the price as “daylight robbery,” and declares
that “it is about four times as much as
the farmers were receiving five and six years
ago,” which is absurd. Further, apparently
as a punitive proceeding, Lambert has
issued instructions that wheat-lumpers and
stackers must be paid 255. a day, general
laborers at stations and sidings £1 a day,
boys under 18 £4 a week, harvest hands £5
a week and keep, drivers of strippers and
of reapers and binders and cooks £6 a
week and keep, all this with a 44-hour
week. The A.W.U. is a great union, but
it is run in an astonishing fashion. Although
the great majority of its members are bush
workers, its industrial policy is shaped and
expounded by fluent city men who know
nothing about the rural industries, or, at
best, have that small degree of information
which is dangerous. It may be possible to
get the harvest in on a 44-hour-week
basis, but it is the sort of experiment that
only town-bred chin-waggers like Lambert,
the Sydney alderman, would suggest. The
Worker may conceivably be irritated by the
vulgar ostentation of the N. S. Wales wheat-
growers, their brutally offensive arrogance of
wealth, but considering that the same men
have had two droughts and a bad season in
six years, that for the other three years their
wheat was sold over their heads for less
thap the cost of growing it, that the area
undar wheat in N. S. Wales shrank from
5,122,245 acres in 1915-16 to 3,050,330 acres
in 1919-20, and that the Government had
to rush to their assistance to prevent the
industry from disappearing altogether, their
affectation of affluence is a histrionic tour
de force, and suggests that acting is their
forte and not agriculture. There is a case
for increased wages in the wheat-growing
industry. Undoubtedly the farm laborer
should receive his fair share of the mini-
mum wage which the community is guaran-
teeing to his employer. But it is grotesquely
impossible for farmers burdened with heavy
drought liabilities to concede the rates and
hours demanded by the city branch of the
A.W.U.
»
The Crab’s Progress.
The new land-purchase scheme of the Storey
Government is characteristic of the crab's
progress. Power is sought to “take over” a
ridiculously large amount of soil, paying for it
in 4$ per cent, bonds which will fall due 38
years hence and be subject to income-tax.
They will be worth, at present rates, £7O or
a little more per £lOO. So even if a very
high-handed tribunal, against which there
is no appeal, gives full nominal value, it will
be the same, when an embarrassed person has
to sell his bonds, as if a quarter or more of
his property was stolen. That isn’t honest.
And the excuse given is meaner than the
original sin. It is said that rates of interest
must fall, and that the interest that is too
low now will be too high later on, so things
will balance themselves. If rates fall a dozen
or 15 years hence to 3 per cent., that will
mean that the present crowd is paying 1|
per cent, too little, to its great profit, and the
children will pay li per cent, too much, to
their great loss. That isn’t honest either, and
the first Government on record with a-Min-
ister for Motherhood in it should be above
such devices. If the Government must be
eternally dabbling in land and loan schemes,
the simple way is to pay in 30 or 40 or 50
years bonds, or, better still, interminable
bonds, bearing 6 or per cent., the Govern-
ment reserving the right to repay the loan
at any time after (say) five years. (The
6| per cent, rate is barely sufficient for
securities that are liable to income-tax and
are thrust on a glutted market.) Then If
interest went down a new cheap loan could
be floated and the old costly one repaid. That
way the compulsory land seller wouldn’t be
defrauded, for he would get real value, nor
would the children be diddled in order that
the old man might be a loafing fraud. The
method is so obvious that only politicians
with whom diddling the children has become
an obsession or a religion could fail to see it.
-—*-■
Revolution and Bricks.
Winter is a bitter time in Russia, and the
one now beginning—the third complete Bol-
shevik winter —may see the fall of Lenin’s
house of cards. It has been repeatedly
estimated that the sincere and fanatical Com-
munists—the hardshell, reliable believers in
Lenin’s creed —number only about 600,000
in a population of 120,000,000. That is, half
of one per cent., and the estimate seems not
unreasonable, for only about half of one per
cent, believes in anything with the faith that
endures in the face of calamity. Add to a
skimpy handful of fierce apostles those who
are willing to join or leave any cause for
power and for loot; add also the compara-
tively honest soldiers of fortune who will
fight for pay while the pay lasts, and the
bulldozed conscripts who will fight through
terror while the terror lasts, and one-half
per cent., well-led and filled with vim and
hatred, is a good enough nucleus with which
to overset a Louis XVI. or a Nicholas 11.
—flabby men of the Too Late order. Even in
a live country only perhaps 50 per cent, of
the adult people need keeping down in ordi-
nary times, and probably only 5 per cent, in a
dead land like Russia. The rest were born
down, though they may get up once in a long
time under extreme provocation. It is
reckoned that the movement which culminated
in the French Reign of Terror had the real
support of only 1 per cent, of the nation.
Almost everybody suspected his neighbor of
being a supporter, but was afraid to ask him.
When the geonle learned that there was
hardly anybody behind the Terror, astonish-
ment prevailed. The fall of great figures
at that time was ludicrously simple. Robes-
pierre, Danton, . Hebert and their follow-
ings yelled at the Girondists, and they died.
Robespierre and Danton yelled at Hebert,
and he died. Robespierre yelled at Danton,
and he died, with his clique. Then Tallien,
Collot, Billaud and Co., of his own party,
knowing that Robespierre was going to yell
at them, yelled first, and the man who looked
almighty died —he passed inside 24 hours. It
proved at the last that he and his fellow
triumvirs hadn’t an adherent, but everybody
had mistaken everybody else for an adherent.
Lenin may have more staunch friends than
Robespierre had at the finish, but the land
and food problems are big enough to tax the
•energies of a lot of friends. First the land
was confiscated and made State property,
the great aggregate Cocky quite approving.
But he mostly forgot to pay rent to the State,
and he was such a stupendous mass of deaf
stodge that reminders shouted in his ear were
null and void, yet no one dared to stick a pin
in him very deeply to arouse his sleeping
faculties. Then as old Cocky began to die
off his son, youtig Cocky, inherited the farm;
and, being as deaf as his father, all reminders
that land had ceased to be private inheritable
property were useless. Now sufficient old
Cocky has died and enough young Cocky
has succeeded to create a very solid pre-
cedent. As regards the food difficulty, the
first year Cocky didn’t mind selling his grain
for Bolshevik paper, because, though depre-
ciated, it had a solid value. The second year
he was glum, for the paper money had multi-
plied terribly and had little value. Now he has
lost interest in selling grain, for paper money
has increased so incredibly that it has hardly
any value at all. Apparently the apathetic
monster which Is Ivan the Cocky is willing
if let alone to tolerate Soviet rule indefi-
nitely, though not to grow enthusiastic about
it. But Russia is likely to be very short
of food unless he is wakened up and told
the one thing that he doesn’t want to hear —
i.e., that he must work practically without
wages, for Bolshevik paper has almost ceased
to be wages. And though' empty stomachs
are a very good foundation for a revolution,
they are poor material to make bricks for
the second and subsequent storeys.
«,
A Whiff from the War.
Lord Bryce's sister-in-law, Mrs. Annan Bryce,
who has been staying at Glengariff (Ireland) inter-
esting herself in the Government’s policy regarding
reprisals, accepted an invitation to lecture at Ton-
ypandy, Wales. On arriving at Holyhead an officer
ordered her to the cabin, where there were several
soldiers, and told her she would be searched. Her
despatch case was opened, and the officer took the
notes of her intended speech. After being searched, Mrs.
Bryce asked by whose orders she was arrested, those
of Sir Hamar Greenwood or Sir Nevii, Macready.
The officer replied that he wpuld not tell. He re-
fused to produce his warrant or evidence of his
power of arrest. Mrs. Bryce was sent back to Kings-
ton and transferred to the Bridewell in Dublin
in military custody. Four hours later a Dublin
Castle official told her that she would be released,
as no charge would be made against her. — Gable.
How familiar it all is! Before demobilisa-
tion the militarists argued that this sort of
thing was necessary to defeat the Germans.
On that assumption Mrs. Besa'nt was gaoled
without trial in 1917 for advocating Home
Rule for India. In every part of the Empire
officers wielded tremendous powers over the
liberties of people, civilian and otherwise,
who had been accustomed to freedom. In
accordance with a law of human nature, the
lowest class of man gravitated towards the
home-service jobs which gave most scope for
petty tyranny. In the streets of every city
and town that was well back from the firing-
line, and amidst the hutments of every base
camp, strapping young fellows demonstrated
their fitness to continue as A.P.M.’s, adjut-
ants and so on by unflagging • zeal in the
matter of arresting people for breaking one
or other of the countless regulations which
are born of war. They did more to make
military service detested than all the lethal
engines of the enemy. The war being over
they are going the right way, backed by their
Governments, to make the State as much
hated as they made the Army. Before about
a million young British men gav,e their lives
to make the world safe for democracy, there
was a healthy system in operation through-
out the Empire: anyone was allowed to
speak or write in favor of any political
policy, and in general of anything that did
not incite to a breach of the criminal laws.
In Australia under W. M. Hughes, and in
Maoriland, where, at the beginning of the
month, Premier Massey threatened a speaker
with a prosecution for sedition because he
had advocated “industrial parliaments,” this
old-established right is as dead as it appa-
rently is in the United Kingdom. Fifth-rate
Government officials are doing here the work
that the same class of military officer did in
Europe while the fighting was on. It min-
isters to*the vanity of political autocrats of
the Hughes stamp, men to whom the exer-
cise of power has become a disease; but it
exasperates law-abiding people, lessens their
respect for constituted authority, and greatly
encourages those who are working for the
overthrow of the State. There is no need to
establish that the latter ever will be able to
overthrow the State in Australia to make the
point that it is undesirable to provide them
with just the arguments they want. Mani-
festations of superfluous official tyranny
create friction between classes, increase
the likelihood of strikes, and make them
harder to settle when they occur. Cases
like that of Mrs. Bryce are disastrous if
only on that basis. The whole community
has to suffer in its reputation abroad, in its
temper, and ultimately in its pocket because
the big officials love power and the small
one& are asses.
*»
The Reform of Billingsgate.
Doyle and Burke- lately had a spasm in
N. S. Wales Parliament about heavy rent-
increases said to have been made by Plenley
(who is in Parliament) and Myerson (who
isn’t), whereupon a Bill was promised to
cr-r-r-r-rush such iniquities. Henley, who
is a big house-owner, rushed to find out if
his agent had been doing anything remark-
able, and then contradicted Doyle in every
particular. Myerson contradicted Burke in
the press. So the implication is that these men
had either invented or retailed slanders.
Hence the need for the following reforms (in
addition, of course, to the eternal need that
Parliamentary candidates should have diplo-
mas showing that they have qualified in his-
tory, political economy and other subjects) :
(1) That a member who slanders a fellow-member
should be amenable to the civil and criminal law
like anybody else. (Possibly the same should apply
also when he slanders a private individual, but that
is a matter for consideration.)
(2) That a member who supplies false informa-
tion, thus tending to mislead the House and cause
it to do things on wrongful premises, should be sus-
pended for at least a week on the demand of any
other member who makes out a case to satisfy the
Speaker. (No vote of the House should be allowed
to over-rule the Speaker. Judges have a short way
with the lawyer who tries to deceive the Court by
quoting imaginary precedents, and the High Court
of Parliament should be equally careful of its dig-
nity.)
(3) That the member’s salary should stop during
suspension. Holiday on full pay isn’t a punishment.
(4) That on the demand of a certain number of
members (say, one-fifth of the whole House) every
member should be called upon to take a binding
oath before the Bill went into committee, something
like this: “I hereby swear, in the presence of the
Almighty and of my fellow-men, that every vote I
have given or will give on this measure is the expres-
sion of my honest opinion; that no pressure, compul-
sion or threats have been used to influence me, either
in caucus or elsewhere, except such as I have already
reported to the House (if any such report has been
made) so that this august body might deal with
the offender, and that I am actuated by no personal
considerations. whatsoever. And if I swear falsely
in any particular I trust that in addition to being
prosecuted with the utmost rigor of the law I may
die miserably and answer for my sins in Tophet.”
The oath might not often be called for. But
the fact that it might be required would be
a steadying influence, and when it really
happened it would be an event.
• ♦
“Stands Scotland Where It Did.”
Returns to hand of the voting in Scotland
on the miscalled Prohibition issue suggest
that the Cold Tea party has taken yet
another knock. In Glasgow, for example,
where the invading Yankee army of drys
had their G.H.Q., “twenty-four wards voted
for no change, nine for limitation, and four
for no-license.” Poor results, considering the
fact that “Pussyfoot” Johnson, of the U.S..
while only claiming that “ohe-third of Scot-
land would go dry,” regarded the more or
less complete aridity of the city on which
he and his followers had concentrated their
efforts as an imminent certainty. Condi-
tions favored the anti-liquorites, on the
whole. In the first place, the bone-dry
menace, which has provided so many horrible
examples in America, was non-existent. The
poll was taken under the Scottish Temper-
ance Act (1913), which makes careful pro-
vision that only the poor shall become
compulsorily sober. Even if “no-license”
had been carried everywhere, liquor would
still have been legally obtainable at prac-
tically all hours by patrons of hotels and
their guests, club-members and their guests,
and so forth. The operations of the brewers
and distillers and the wholesalers are not
directly affected by the measure at all. The
voting not being on a universal-suffrage
basis, the humble imbiber at the stand-up
bars had to look on while his fate was
settled for him by citizens who were rrfostly
in a financial position to do without bars.
It is a truism that the people who can afford
to get drunk at home are usually the most
intolerant of the needy reveller who, having
no private cellar, makes an inebriated
nuisance of himself in the streets. In order
to discourage if not eliminate this feature
of the social landscape, it was only neces-
sary for 35 per cent, of those qualified to
vote to have done so, and for 55 per cent,
of them to have been in favor of closing
down the bars. It is unlikely that the
paltry response made indicates that the
propertied classes of Scotland believe in the
encouragement of drunkenness. Rather is
it a proclamation by a most business-like and
hard-headed race that there are less one-
sided ways of handling the problem.
Further, the Scotch doubtless regarded the
incursion of a whirlwind band of righteously
abusive strangers from the other side of the
Atlantic as an infernal piece of imperti-
nence. No one likes to be publicly covered
with mud by foreigners, and least of all a
Scotsman.
Irish Freedom and English Millionaires.
When, as happened last week, two Union-
ist M’s.P. of the stamp of Lord Henry
Bentinck' and Oswald Mosley find a Brit-
ish Government so reactionary that they
can no longer sit with it, there is
something wrong indeed. The first is
a member of the fabulously rich family
which owns several streets in the neigh-
borhood of Oxford Circus. Inciden-
tally, his ancestor, the first English
inck, commanded a Dutch regiment at the
Battle of the Boyne. Young Mosley has
been called “the wealthiest squire in
England.” These are hardly the men who
might be expected to range, themselves on
the side of “the only forces harassing Ire-
land at present,” to borrow an imperishable
phrase from last Friday’s S. M. Herald.
Two facts stand out pretty clearly from the
present turmoil in Ireland. The first is
that the row has reached a stage where it
is beginning to threaten England with
revolution and English property-owners with
ruin. The big British landlord has always
had a remarkably keen flair for the temper
of the people, a fact which was demonstrated
yet again when Lord Lansdowne turned
pacifist in 1917. If the Germans had been
sufficiently cunning to exploit the situation
which existed at that time, they might, by
the purely temporary cession of Alsace-Lor-
raine to France, have given England the
choice between an upheaval at home and
the loss of the Middle East and the road to
India. They chose to be maximalists; the
English tightened their belts in desperation,
and the German Empire crashed. The Lloyd
George Government is also going the limit,
The Northern Depression.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An immense low pressure covers the northern
portion of the continent.’’ —Weather report.
From Carpentaria to Alice Springs
Hearts sag,
The moisture sizzles in the water-bag
And no bird sings.
Low pressure of the most unworthy kind
Weighs down
The morning yellow and the evening
brown
From pip to rind.
Out there the dreamers went with willing
hands,
Brave hearts
And splendid hopes to play the larger parts
In wide, new lands.
They heard the railway following in their
track—
Bright steel
For long roaring of the flying wheel
Behind the pack.
The pledge was broken and the promise
failed.
Ten “"years
They watched and waited for their dream
arrears
Till all hope failed.
Low pressure in the North. No chance of
lifting
Fate’s weight
When dreamless dullards, fearing to be great,
Are past all shifting.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


Can’t Beat Cocoanut
Oil for Hair Wash.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greasekss
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect'
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper stickv. emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Callouses.
Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
'^W\
This is a wonderfully easy,
quick and pleasant way of
freeing your feet of corns
and callouses. Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-Ice right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes.
The corn or callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
m
is for men and women who appreciate neat,
fashionable, attractive footwear and foot
comfort also.. With Frozol-Ice vou enjoy
both. There sno pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-Ice, nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding, healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice. and never let your corns
ache again. You’ll be delighted" with it.
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Every
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists, High-class
Stores, etc.
Easy Way to Get
Rid of Indigestion
Although you may have indigestion so
severely that anything but the simplest of
foods cause you the keenest suffering, there
is a simple way to get back safely to pleas-
anter, more nourishing foods. Just take a
teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia in a little
hot or cold water with eacn meal, and begin
at once to eat a little of any food you crave.
Salix Magnesia, which comes in the form ot
powder or tablets (never as a liquid or coarse
granules) is not a laxative, but neutralises
the excess acid in the stomach, and so prevents
or stops all the pain of indigestion. Its use
cannot, like pepsin, soda-water, etc., do the
stomach any injury, and it will soon enable
you to eat good, hearty, satisfying meals of
the foods you like best without fear of bad
results. Your chemist should be able to sup-
ply you with Salix Magnesia.
with the difference that there is no America
preparing to come to its aid, and no over-
whelming moral force based on the religion
of human freedom behind it. It is all very
much the other way. And this introduces
the second evident fact with regard to the
position in Ireland. The Lloyd George
Government is standing out, not on behalf
of justice, not even on, behalf of England,
but on behalf of the Lloyd George Govern-'
ment. It is afraid of the Junkers of the
Coalition, irresponsible fire-eaters of the
Carson type with nothing to lose in the
Bentinck or Mosley sense, and with a
truly Prussian hatred of the Hibernian
enemy. It would be a tragic circumstance
if the Party Government system which, like
standing armies, secret treaties and coali-
tions, has always .been distrusted by the
English, ended its inglorious career by wreck-
ing their Empire.
The Desires of Russia.
“Solomon Malaprop” in reply to Peter
Simonoff:—
I only partially agree with Consul Peter Simon-
off., who wrote “The Desires of Russia” (B.
4/11/’2O). He says: “The first and the basic prin-
ciple of mankind should be to disbelieve every-
thing you read in the newspapers.” I certainly
go so far as to disbelieve almost everything I
read in Petek Simonoff’s newspaper. I even go so
far as to disbelieve much of what he wrote in The
Bulletin. For instance, Petek wasn’t “cast into
vile dungeons.” To “cast” signifies to throw, especi-
ally to throw down, and Peter walked into his
dungeon, which was upstairs, and was quite clean.
And he didn’t get there for telling the people about
Russia so much as for urging them to be like Russia,
which is the difference between telling people about
cannibalism and urging them to be cannibals. He
was “cast,” in short, for being an unregistered and
consequently law-breaking alien, the agent of a
hostile Power, and a meddler with our affairs. As
the apparent proprietor of a newspaper subsidised by
a foreign Government, some people reckon he is
still meddling. As Peter doesn’t expect to attract
immigrants from here, and doesn’t expect us to
lend his robber Government money, and is not a
man of commerce, I suppose the eulogies of Soviet-
ism in his publication are only intended as an
interference with our affairs. Aliens shouldn’t be
allowed to own, control or edit papers.
Mr. Simonoff says: “It is stupid to stick one’s
head into sands like the ostriches.” That platitude
is worn out. The ostrich, being a wise bird, lowers
his towering neck when he wants to avoid atten-
tion ; but he never stuck his countenance into the
sand in his life. Besides, there isn’t always sand
where he hangs out; it is sometimes rock or rich
alluvial deposit. If the ostrich was a fool he
would hold his head high at a crisis and rush into
print.
I suppose “robber” is the right term for Peter’s
Government. It made a sort of start by (princi-
pally . city) revolution on November 9, 1917. On
January 31, 1918, it ..established itself formally by
its own “decree.” Ten days later it stole all the
local and foreign debt, a fair amount being - the
savings of poor people, for the small, thrifty French
investor had helped Russia largely. It didn't wait
to see if the foreigner would do anything to justify
this hostile act. In fact, it was so quick off the
mark that robbery seemed to be its object from
thfe first. Having ideas of our own about honesty,
also having sufficient troubles of our own, this
country would be better without foreign hired apolo-
gists for repudiation. ■
As for the Repudiation Government being “sup-
ported by the overwhelming majority of the Rus-
sian people,” possibly Mr. Simonoff is crowing
before he is ripe. Three years of submission and
military service when called upon is hardly sufficient
evidence in the case of a people who rallied round
the Romanoffs for nearly 300 years in similar
fashion. Mr. Simonoff’s nation is perhaps born
to have profound confidence in anybody who sits
with sufficient tonnage on its head. The strength
Of the new gang in power seems to rest greatly on
its remarkable resemblance, in the way of high-
handedness, to the old gang. A nation that never
saw a. republic before may take the present con-
traption for the real article, but if it was real it
would probably be dead. Anyhow, the confiscation
of the land was ‘/'decreed” one month after the
revolution, and seven weeks before the “decree”
establishing the Government, and the repudiation of
the debt came 10 days after the establishment. So
if the free, self-governing people were allowed to
have a voice about these things the election of the
■new authorities must have been sudden for'the size
of the country.
However, if the new rulers haven’t appointed
themselves for life as the Czars did, I suppose
Lenin’s or Trotsky’s or somebody’s appointment
must expire some day, and then there will be some
kind of an election, at which the overwhelming majo-
rity will declare itself as it did the other day in
the United States. And the free, untrammelled
self-determination of some 120,000,000 enlightened,
self-governing people, spread over some 8,000,000
square miles, is no hole-and-corner affair to be
hidden under a bushel. Russ an and Persian and
Chinese and young Turkish and other Asiatic and
semi-Asiatic election returns are always interesting
as showing clearly and without bias the way., the
vast and intelligent majority feels. They are much
more satisfactory than the assertions of hired offi-
cials dependent on the ruling class. No consul is
paid to tell unpleasant truths ajiout his pay-
masters.
The Firestick.
“E.S.S.” on a wasted heritage:—
P. P. Loughlin, N. S. Wales Minister for Lands,
says that it made his heart ache to see the tragic
waste of timber on the Bulga and thereabouts, and
that the desolation wrought by axe and firestick shall
stop. I hope he means it. Knowing the value of
the timber, the scarcity in the central areas, and
the price paid for a (mostly imported) plank in
Sydney, I have been protesting against the waste
for 20 years, and so have others; but Mr. Loughlin
has only just discovered it. Other politicians have
made similar discoveries, and talked with equal
grandeur about their aching hearts, but returned to
Sydney and forgot all about the blighted place.
Possibly Loughlin will be different, but until he
proves it the settlers will just go on chopping and
burning.
The scrubs that are being felled and burnt contain
many of the most valuable woods in the world.
At the present time a little factory on the Bulga is
making furniture from 50 different woods, and its
orders come from as far afield as England and the
continent of Europe. You would doubtless have diffi-
culty in buying its fancy inlaid tables in Australia,
but the importer will get them for you from London.
He would rather get them through London than from
“EXCELSIOR!"
“Amongst other things tram and train fares have gone up ."—Sydney news item.
“O stay," the maiden said ....
A voice replied , far up the height,
“Excelsior!”
the Bulga. Another local factory, with two
machines, is turning out ,1800 axe-handles a week,
and so great is the demand that six more machines
are being installed to cope with it. The material used
is mountain water-gum, which experts declare to he
superior to American hickory. Many knowalls buy
these in Sydney—-for imported—and assure you that
nothing to equal them can be produced in this coun-
try. It is significant that professionals seek the
water-gum handle for wood-chopping contests. But
the average settler destroys this wood as worthless.
Anything that his grandfather (imp.) didn’t use
for fencing posts has no value in his eyes. What
he is told is valuable he destroys just the same,
because he hasn’t the same facilities for marketing
it to-day that he has for butter.
In Westralia railways were run into the great karri
and jarrah forests, and an important timber indus-
try was developed. In N. S. Wales railways followed
a long while after settlement, when scrubs and
forests had mostly been destroyed. Millions of
pounds’ worth went up in smoke where stood the big
scrubs of the Richmond and the Tweed. It has been
the custom to settle the small man on scrub and 1
dense forest country, and to reckon his clearing and
ringbarking as improvements, while the open lands
were leased for long periods to squatters. When the
settler was a farmer or dairyman he had no thought
of anything else. Trees were a darned encumbrance,
to be got rid of as quickly as possible. I know'
plenty buying firewood to-day who 20 years ago
hadn’t building room for standing trees.
The axe and the firestick are a twin curse that
thousands have realised to their bitter cost— a,'id
thousands are still using. The densely-covered area
of the Bulga, Comboyne and Dorrigo districts is,
indeed, about all that is left of the once magnificent
scrub and forest belt of the north-east of N. S.
Wales, and the Minister for Lands will have to act
quickly to save even that remnant of our sinfully
wasted heritage.
*
How Should Australia’s Defenders be
Armed?
“Madsen”: “Per Orbem” (B. 23/0/’2O)
and other rifle advocates seem to forget, in
their references to the work done with this
arm by the first 8.E.F., that the latter were
retiring when their wonderful rapid fire was
delivered. Hence supplies of ammunition
were plentiful. Things are very different
in an advance. At Cambrai, for instance, the
British got so far ahead of their artillery,
tanks and small-arm ammunition dumps
that they had to rely on their bombs and
bayonets. “Per Orbem’s” idea of stopping
determined attacks with rifle fire is imprac-
ticable. Let him try rapid fire for five min-
utes on his pet range. At the end of that
time he will have:
(1) A rifle useless for further accurate shooting.
(2) A bolt that refuses to work.
(3) A barrel that is too hot to touch.
As regards Gallipoli. I spent five months
there and never saw an aperture sight. The
best shot in the world could not deliberately
hit one of the loopholes used by the Turks at
700 yards. A service rifle is tested by firing
from a Whitfield rest, and if it places five
shots in a rectangle 14in. by lin. at 30yds. it
is passed. This allows for natural variation in
rifle and ammunition, and although in some
cases marksmen can beat the rest the above
is the standard. Therefore at 700 yards the
variation due to rifle and ammunition only
would be about 3ft. x 2ft. This does not
take into consideration atmospheric condi-
tions, personal element and umpteen other
factors met with on active service. Australia
has wasted a lot of money on the rifle, and
it is now time that the lessons of the Great
War were learnt and put into use. At the
start England had two machine-guns per
battalion. At the finish, besides countless
Vickers guns in M.G. companies, they were
doing their damnedest to provide two Lewis
ns -a° platoon of 36 men. The number
or lines per battalion used in the war de-
creased, while the number of M.G.’s in-
creased something like 2400 p.c. (from 2 per
battalion to about 48). We require many
light guns (not the mechanically-imperfect
JLewis guns) and plenty of ammunition for
the land defence of Australia.
♦
In Australia the people count for a lot less
than they sometimes think they do. About
two months ago “orders” came from Mel-
bourne that overseas shipping was to be
irritated and discouraged at Brisbane and
elsewhere. . No explanation was given to
the Australian workers. As with the dumb,
driven cow it was not for them to reason
why. They were simply told that loading
was only to go on for one-third of the time
and the ships were to lie idle at the wharves
lor the other two-thirds. The dumb, driven
cows weren’t to work during the prohibited
hours even for overtime money. A ballot
taken at Brisbane after long delay revealed
that the great majority of the didn’t
want to cease work. They had simply
heard the master’s voice. Then the voice
spoke again. It didn’t say it had been an
ass all along, nor did it explain or apologise.
It simply ordered that things should resume.
But meanwhile a big liner had gone to Bris-
bane and Townsville to load, and, finding it
wasn’t worth while to spend three weeks at
terrific expense over one week’s work, had
left, the goods behind and come back empty.
Whereupon the big companies remarked that
Brisbane was only a sixth-rate port even
according to Australian and MX. standards,
that in _the British Isles it would stand
about 25th, anti that while business was
abundant it wasn’t worth while troubling
with a place of that size but which might be
Antwerp and New York rolled together for
the fuss it made. In fact they laid out new
time-tables with Brisbane omitted. Yet it
seems that no one has the courage to ask
the mandarins who gave the futile orders
that caused the trouble what kind of silly
song-and-dance they were up to.
“Boukagi” : I see the “Rev.” F. W. Walker,
managing director of Papuan Industries, Ltd.,
lias been addressing the Y.M.C.A. in Sydney
on the subject of the poor persecuted Papuan
natives, lie thinks they should have sepa-
rate representation in the new Papuan
Legislative Council, and further urges that
“peasant proprietorship” be established in
Papua, that natives be encouraged to culti-
vate small holdings, and that facilities be
given them to market their produce. Also
he bewails the exploitation of the Papuan
by the white man. Either the “Rev.” Wal-
ker (he used to be at the L.M.S. station at
Quatto, near Samarai, in my time) has. been
misreported. or, what is more likely, he is
serving up the usual tosh which the holiday-
ing or plate-passing missionary loves to hand
to ignorant hearers. About the only concern
which does “exploit” the Papuan, as dis-
tinguished from hiring him to work
ment rates of wages and under Government
supervision, is Walker’s own sanctified
show, Papuan Industries, Limited, which is
run on Gon-fearing lines at GoD-fearing
wages, as these missionary-trading concerns
usually are. The Papuan native is already
a “peasant proprietor” before all else. He
has been so for ages past, and is encouraged
by Government to keep on at it. The laws of
proprietorship, entail and succession among
the various Papuan peoples are beyond one
man’s understanding, and include cultivating
rights, water and fishing rights, hunting rights
and rights in trees, palms and lots of other
things. These rights are held in various forms
—in common, under a joint tenancy or in-
dividually—and may be in perpetuity or for
a period. The Papuan has, as a rule, little to
learn from a conveyancer. He is already a
small holder of the deepest dye. His village
gardens are subdivided into private lots, and
he often runs outlying shows on his own.
Already, too, there is a demand for more of
his produce than he can supply. Even in the
days before the big plantations, traders,
miners and Government officials could rarely
get half the native produce they would have
liked. Nowadays, with the markets increas-
ing every year, many of the Papuan peoples
are growing less crops, preferring to buy
rice with their easily-earned wages. The
vast majority of Papuans wouldn’t know
what to do with a vote if they got it. The
missionary would, though ; and this is why
Mr. Walker and some others are anxious
to see an easily-swung black vote come
into existence, for the mission-influenced
native would cast his vote to orders, while
the wild liillman would continue on his
unsaved way.
When the vote at the Queensland liquor
poll reached the 290,000 mark, which was
near the finish, there were exactly 23,419
votes for State control in the lot. State
management was a sort of brass god in the
North in 1915; but since then the public
has learned that “the State” really doesn’t
manage anything these days—a handful of
party bosses do it with ap eye to the party’s,
advantage.


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “o new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will be primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
There are possibilities about the Austra-
lian Labor party’s scheme for abolishing the
Senate and running Australia with one
House of 100 members elected on a popula-
tion basis—s2,soo souls per member. About
62 per cent, of Australia —the part west of
Spencer’s Gulf —would have six or seven
members. About 24 per cent. —the part
north of the N.S.W.-Queensland boundary
—would have 14. The other 14 per cent, of
the teri-itoi*y would have 79 or 80. What
is now N. S. Wales and Victoi’ia would rise
from 54 per cent, of the control to 70 per
cent. Melbourne and Svdney between them
would have about 31 per cent., or about half
as much again as the whole western and
northern 86 p.e. of the continent. This is
called decentralisation. Or hocus-pocus.
If Premier Lawson (Y r ic.) had any con-
ceit left after the mauling his party got
at the general election, it w&s stripped fx*om
him by the free criticism of so-called sup-
porters at the first meeting of Liberals held
after the poll. The tide x*an against him all
through the meeting, and then Peacock
adroitly suggested an adjournment.
When J;he Ministry got its breath
next morning it bucked up Lawson,
who snapped his fingei’s at the
growlers, said he had a mandate
(of a sort) from the country, and
if he was to be kicked out the dis-
missal must come from the House.
Peacock, who was suggested as the
leader in place of Lawson, was
cute enough to see that the advo-
cates were more anxious about
their own promotion than his, and
decided to forgive Lawson for
sending him into exile in March.
1918. at the dictation of Bowser,
Clarke and McPherson, and serve
under his old lieutenant. Which proves
once more than in politics as in poverty
you doss with all sorts.
So that their employees may have more
time to impi’ove their minds and bodies, the
Sydney City Council philanthropists have
established the five-day week. And so that
the employees may be sure of getting the
ri<rht mental and physical improvement, the
philanthropists have closed the municipal
library on Saturdays. That will give those
really reforming and illuminating agencies,
the racecourses, the pubs and the two-up
schools, a fair run.
W. E. Wearne, leader of the N. S. Wales
Progressives, addressed a long letter to Judge
Edmunds last week, and then sent a copy to
the press. He informed the Judge that no
member of the party would have anything
to do with his Royal Commission to report on
the salaries of M’s.L.A. He said that the
Progressives would decline to give evidence
on the subject, and that they regarded him
as an impropriety. It was a long, poly-
syllabic communication reeking of cheap
political virtue ; but it lacked the one thing
requisite to give it a flavor of sincerity.
There were no sworn declarations attached
that in the event of the anticipated rise being
awarded the money would be left untouched.
The Reps, adjourned over Cup Day, though
normally there are enough non-racegoers_ to
keep a House. The trouble is that pairing
has become such a habit that the Government
cannot rely on a quorum when the list of
Cup absentees is swollen by sundry other
members who wouldn’t be present under any
circumstances. Nowadays few members
think it necessary to make a reasonable pre-
tence of deserving their salaries. Bills have
lately meandered into law with about a dozen
sleepily watching their progress, and only the
division bells and Laborite Gabb’s persistent
demands for quorums have bought the slack-
ers to a temporary recognition of their duties.
Gabb, who refused the extra £4OO a year, has
vowed to make his brethren earn their in-
crease ; but as the idlers drift out again after
being summoned by the quorum bell, his calls
to service haven’t been productive of great
results.
From an old Parliamentary hand: —
Make no mistake about it, Ryan has arrived. He
is the one Labor member whom the Ministerial now
fear. When he came south for the first time the
veterans on both sides of the House were inclined
to be critical of his manners and methods. Some
of them privately remarked that he was an over-
rated bag of wind. The man was conscious of a
latent dislike, and in his anxiety to prove himself
he blustered overmuch. But that phase has passed.
By sheer weight of ability and force of character
the large Queenslander has extorted respect, even
in quarters that were most hostile. He has made
himself the real Labor leader, and has no rival near
the throne. ■ When Tudor’s infirmity compels him
to retire from a job that has become a burden to
him, there will be nobody in the picture but Ryan.
All going well, W’est Sydney will have the unique
distinction of being represented by two successive
Prime Ministers.
Lambert, the Sydney Labor alderman who
helps to run the A.W.U., has made the
startling discovery that “the 9s. a bushel
which the farmers are to receive is four or
five times greater than they got five or six
years ago,” and with the pride that a man
feels who has made a signal contribution to
knowledge he tells it to every reporter that
calls. But the dolts of statisticians assert
that Cocky got 4s. 3d. a bushel for his 1915-
16 wheat, and not Is. 9 3-5 d.. nor even 2s. 3d.
And 4s. 3d. per bushel was reckoned so piti-
fully small that thousands of farmers re-
fused to grow any more wheat on the same
terms; in fact, the industry was dying rapidly
when the Government came to light with a
guarantee. As for the 1914-15 wheat, what
there was of it, the price varied accoi’ding to
the incidence of the di’ought, but the farmer
who got less than ss. a bushel had bad luck.
Talk of wheat at 2s. 3d. or Is. 9 3-sd. a
bushel in modern times is the sort of frenzied
bosh that the public has learned to associate
with Sydney Labor aldermen.
That project of some Sydney aldermen,
the Moore-street extension, has gone over-
board along with the scheme to buy for
£75,000 an undeveloped mining lease valued
by some authorities at £5OOO or less. It
required a mighty lot of public protest to
get them overboard. But the fact that
these schemes have been abandoned doesn’t
NO CONSIDERATION FOR A POOR
STOP-WORKING MAN.
"Some hooks, lines and sinkers, please .”
“Gee, don’t you know we shut up at one on
Saturdays?”
“Oh, hang it, old man, have a heart — I’ve
only just got away from the stop-work
meeting at the Town Hall.”
diminish the need for aninquiry (the moment
Judge Ewing is disengaged) into the reason
why. the municipal fathers ever devised them,
so that precautions may be taken for the
future. And if the Judge smelt anything, a
three-years’ pei-iod of city rule by Commis-
sionex-s, as happened in 1854-5-6, would give
time and opportunity for sweeping out and
tidying-up.
Of the 70 members of the N. S. Wales
nominee Leg. Council 12 have been drowsing
there for 20 years or more—some of them for
as much as 35 years. They call this govern-
ment of the people by the people.
Certain people (including unlimited bor-
rowers, unlimited paper-money fiends, and
those who think that swiping round with an
axe is a substitute for the constructive
faculty) never learn by history, but must
upset the same old pot on themselves and
others for the 1000th time to find out if boil-
ing water is hot.
Storey and Cann and
Dooley, of Sydney,
are now harried by un-
employed deputations;
and they explain that
the splendid conditions
created by the new
crowd are attracting
people too fast. But
Storey in his election
madness said the only
fear was that they
wouldn't come fast
enough. “Our activi-
ties,” he shouted,
“will only be limited
by the available sup-
ply of labor.” Any-
how, it is proposed to
advertise in Victoria
and Queensland that
people shouldn’t be
deluded into rushing
Ma State. So it ap-
pears that Queensland,
the most fertile of all
the provinces, with a
shade over one human
to the square mile,
and with five years of
the blessed sort of
government that
Storey and Dooley ad-
mire, has become a
place that people are
leaving. Of course the
plain truth is that the
loan po 1i c y which
beguiled young men
into an excess of un-
productive railway
jobs, and the Trades
Hall policy which
aimed at shutting two-
thirds of the boys out
of trades, are jointly
responsible for the
whole trouble; and
the Storey Government stands for both
evils.
Goulburn (N.S.W.) has celebrated its cen-
tenary, and it talked a great deal about its
future, though it is small for its age, and
last census said it had been decaying for 20
years. With a straight. line, worked on
straight business principles, to a city and
harbor at Jervis Bay, which is less than
half as far away as Sydney, Goulburn should
be a great and hustling place, where two
busy railways joined, instead of the wayside
town it is. Then Sydney would have a
blessed relief from congestion, and could have
bigger back-yards and fewer people in a bed.
The protracted argument, Merton v.
Hughes, was mentioned in the Reps, the
other night, when £3OOO-odd was put down
in the Estimates for defendant’s expenses—
a first instalment of the sum that the Com-
monwealth will have to pay. Hughes
laughed joyously at Labor members’ criti-
cism, but there is nothing humorous about
establishing the principle of fining the coun-
try for the indiscretions of Ministerial
tongues. Nor is there anything hilarious in
the Government grabbing the cash from the
Treasurer’s advance without the knowledge
of Parliament.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Chairman J. M. Chanter has been responsible
for another unseemly disturbance in the Reps. His
handling of interjectors the other night drove the
usually placid Tudor to a violent protest, and he
only got out of a difficult position by solemnly sus-
pending James Mathews, who had already heatedly
left the Chamber. Mathews was very properly
dealt with for his riotous defiance of the M.C., but,
all the same, Chanter’s behavior would often make
an angel boil with fury. The way he has jumped
on Labor men, whilst ignoring the original pro-
vocation, has been altogether too consistent of late;
and if he continues in this vein his dignity will
be affronted by even worse outbreaks than have
recently been reported.
A year ago Treasurer McPherson had a
shy at Peacock over his management of the
finances. Peacock hit back, and, though
firing ceased, the guns were kept loaded for
months. Now the pair are marching
shoulder to shoulder in the same Cabinet;
but they have many precedents for their
reconciliation. Livingston, who retired
three years ago with Peacock, has come
back with him as whip, and Angus, who
was emptied out when Bowser was picking
the best, of his old Cabinet to coalesce with
Lawson, has taken an honorary job. Pen-
nington is half a whip, and as an honorary
Minister will have a free railway pass for
life.
In December the Westralian Arbitration
Court granted the 44-hour week to large
bodies of Government railway employees,
having been assured by union witnesses that
there would be no decrease of production.
At the end of June the Railway Commis-
sioner reported that in the locomotive work-
shops “the reduction of hours by per cent,
has been followed by a corresponding reduction
of output,” and as for the permanent way
“the reduced hours are having, their effect on
the maintenance of the road, and it will be-
come necessary to employ more men.” And
THE DANCER’S REWARD (after
Beardsley.)
The Labor politician can be trusted to see
that the big city gets its cut.
the W.A. Railway Department, can’t afford
to employ more men. During the year in
which the workless Saturday was established
it had a deficit of £399,215. For political
reasons the Department will try to keep
things going, deficit or no deficit, until the
loan money gives out; but a private company
would meet the situation by closing down
unpayable lines like Hopetoun-Ravensthorpe
(length 33 miles; loss in 11 years £50,977)
and Port Hedland-Marble Bar (length 114
miles; loss in eight years £106,457) and
retrenching on a vast scale. Which is a con-
sideration never mentioned by the advocates
of shorter hours.
Bung waited until the Victorian and
Queensland local-option polls were over be-
fore showing his gratitude to the people who
had kept his bar-door open. Then he put up
the price of beer. His excuse is that the
brewers put it up weeks before the plebiscites.
But the excuse will soon be forgotten; the
reward that the beer-drinker got won’t. The
Trade’s worst enemy is the Trade.
At Hobart General Hospital venereal
patients are liable to be herded with ordinary
medical cases ; and though separate if some-
what battered utensils are provided for the
V.D.’s, conditions are such that they are liable
to get mixed. Premier Lee admits that the
medical staff has spoken of the need for
extensions to permit of strict segregation of
V.D. cases, but “the cost has to be taken into
consideration.” The reference is to the cost
of building, not to the cost of V.D.
When Brisbane waterside workers decided,
by a huge majority, to cease holding up the
overseas vessels for about 16 hours a day,
the secretary gravely reported that it had
been “realised that a complete stoppage of
export to the United Kingdom was having
not only a serious effort on the port, but
was causing widespread distress in the
workers’ own ranks.” It seems a pity that
it took tw r o months to find out a little thing
like that—especially thaf it wasn’t found out
before the vessels cut Brisbane from their
programmes. If leaders are so obtuse as
not even to know that death is fatal till they
try it, the result is that every generation has
to be educated afresh from the beginning,
and there might as well be no past.
THE MEEK.-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Few complaints are heard about the recent in-
crease in fares.” —Sydney evening paper.
Set are our jaws to grin and bear,
To -kick were but to bark our shins;
We mildly snort the morning air
And ask forgiveness for our sins.
We know that blessed are the meek;
And we are meek as Moses now.
Oh, brothers, let us humbly seek
The placid spirit of the cow.
She chews the cud and bows to fate
Nor ever seeks to do and dare;
And, murmurless, we emulate
The solemn grandeur of her stare.
The meek inherit earth, we know,
The whole round dirt of every clime,
And so, whatever wind may blow,
We eat our heritage sublime.
Let these facts make the matter clear
To humble folk who say their prayers,
Why all the suburbs lift a cheer
With every raising of the fares.
Hurrah ! The hopes of ages swell;
The engine whistles; earth is gay.
Our cash is gone; but all is well—
The public walks to town to-day.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


GOVERNMENT BY MACHINERY.
“Several members criticised the growth of the Prime Minister’s Department. Dr. Earle Page said that the Department had been dealing with sugar,
wool, wheat, shipping, the administration of Papua, mining and price-fixing, and such a state of affairs had been reached that the Prime Minister could not
supervise his own Department. The Department handled also the questions of shipping and mail services to the Pacific Islands, Commonwealth shipbuilding.
Commonwealth Government line of steamers, and the Commonwealth Shipping Board.”


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS ok
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SlLVER— Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
ZINC DUST —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. lAd.).
Also of LITHARGE —(Assay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZIIVC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SIFVER-FEAD ORES, READ DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COFFINS HOUSE, COFFINS STREET, MEFBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL. Manager.
T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie, South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales.
RRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STKEET.
R. N. KIRK. Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
63 BROOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HAKKER.
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
BMAS
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.SAV.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Josepli Cook found a way to save his face
over the Banking Bill. He discovered, as
others had before him, that to smuggle a
gigantic paper-money inflation scheme into
a simple measure for removing control of
the note-issue from the Government’s trea-
sury to the Government’s bank was rineon-
gruous. So the matter is postponed.
For all that, the Treasurer, who has con-
trived to add another £550,000 to the already
monstrous note-issue, defended inflation
vigorously.' His original plan (which he
.says he hasn’t abandoned —only deferred)
was that every bank must keep 20 per cent,
of its current deposits and 10 per cent, of
its fixed deposits in paper, and as the two
kinds of deposit are about equal this repre-
sented 15 per cent, all round. Deposits
are approaching £220,000,000, and that
would mean that the banks must keep
£33,000,000 in paper absolutely idle and
earning absolutely nothing. This would be
in addition to the stock of paper, gold (the
only thing that is of any value in paying
foreign liabilities, for a bushel of Australian
paper, apart from its gold backing, won’t
buy a postage-stamp outside the Common-
wealth), silver and copper for daily business.
If deposits increased the banks were to hold
more. Then the Treasury was to hold a
certain amount of gold lying idle and earn-
ing nothing, to convince the world that the
paper that was lying idle and earning no-
thing was dashed good paper.
Quite recently the absurdly big note-issue
increased from £53,620,082 to £54,172,965,
an expansion of over £550,000. This is
regarded by Cook as proof that the banks
wanted more paper. They did —for current
business. But in the aggregate they wanted
£9,450,000 less paper. They hold and badly
want to cash some £10,000,000 in £lOOO
notes which they were compelled to buy
with gold as a bit of war finance, and are
compelled to keep even when the war is
over. These “securities” are not allowed to
be used for any profitable purpose, and in
any case £lOOO notes aren’t usable. The
interest lost on this swag of dead money has
to be ground out of business- and working-
people chstomers somehow. Cook defended
the position on the plea that the unusable
£lOOO notes are useful for settling balances
that one bank owes to another. But the
banks would rather settle their balances in
usable notes as they did before the big, fluffy
bits of paper were invented. The fact that
they engble the Bank of Portland to pay
what it owes to the Bank of Rockhampton
with paper which the latter can’t use is mere
exasperation. As a final effort, Cook put
it that if the Government bought back the
compulsory £lOOO documents it would be
merely a case of taking £10,000,000 of gold
from the Treasury vaults and shifting it a
few hundred yards to the bank vaults. That
was hardly ingenuous, for the amounts owing
to the two Queensland banks, the one S.
Aus. bank and the Westralian banks would
have to be removed a vood many hundred
miles; and the big Sydney banks aren t
exactly next door either. But even if Cook
was more than right it is hard to see the
advantage of keeping £10,000,000 of gold
earning nothing so that £10,000,000 of paper
may earn nothing on the other side of a
partition. It looks as if the Commonwealth
Cabinet hdfl become slightly cracked, as
elderly misers are apt to be, through brooding
over its big gold reserve.
4r * * *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept., 1911. .£20,180 7 p.c.=£10,500 £9,680 £163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 ~ „ 12,000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912.. 22,464 8 .. „ 12,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 1913.. 23,052 8 „ „ 12,000 11,052 195,459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 8 „ „ 12,000 10,637 206,096
Mar., ISI4. . 23,069 8 „ „ 12,000 11,069 217,165
Reserves disclosed . . 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914.. 20,180 8 p.c. = 12,000 8,180 240,345
Mar., 1915.. 19,316 8 ~ „ 12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1915.. 17,255 8 ~,,12,000 5,255 252.916
Mar., 1916.. 19,485 8 „ „ 12,000 7,485 260,401
Sept., 1916.. 19,590 8 „ „ 12,000 7,590 267,991
Mar. 1917.. 22,164 8 „ „ 12,000 10,164 278,155
Sept., 1917.. 22,307 8 „ „ 12,000 10,307 288,462
Mar., 1918.. 25,256 8 „ „ 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept., 1918.. 26,180 8 „ „ 12,000 14,180 315,898
Mar., 1919.. 29,413 8 ~ „ 12,000 17,413 333,311
Sept., 1919.. 41,489 9 „ „ 22,500 18,989 352,300
Mar 1920.. 46,696 10 „ ~ 25,000 21,696 373,996
Sept., 1920.. 55,230 10 „ „ 25,000 30,230 404,225
The Royal of Australia has made very rapid
progress during recent years ; its business has
doubled since 1914. This expansion has pro-
vided employment for considerable new
money; for many years paid capital was
£300,000 but over 12 months ago another
£200,000 was got in, and a couple of months
ago the directors set out to raise a further
quarter of a million. When the whole of this
money has been paid up the Royal’s total
funds will amount to about £1,200,000, com-
pared with £540,345 only six years ago. A
20 years’ survey of gross earnings (after
providing for contingencies) and expenses
reveals this swift movement: —
Sept.
half, Gross Profits. Exes.
1900 . . . . £8,930 £3,067
1910 . . . . 28,731 9,887
1914 .. .. 35,309 15,129
1919 . . . . 69,525 28,036
1920 . . . . 89,995 34,765
There are large importing interests behind
the Royal, and so great has been the flood
of overseas goods into the Commonwealth
lately that the much-improved profits for
the past six months compared with the Sep-
tember half of 1919 are not surprising. With
an additional outlay of only £6729 on
salaries, taxes, etc., the management earned
£20,470 more than for the same term last
year. The new capital, of course, helped.
Another view of the Royal’s growth is given
by this comparison of the balance-sheet
figures:—
Liabilities.
Sept., Sept., Sept.,
1914. 1919. 1920.
Notes .. .. £1,014 £859 £859
Bills, etc. .. 241,497 183,951 540,023
Free deposits .. 845,781 1,593,806 2,201,745
Fixed deposits . . 1,414,121 1,909,064 2,218,549
Assets
Liquid assets .. 1,288,004 1,302,970 1,707,145
Advances .. .. 1.704,104 3,143,412 4,204,297
Premises, etc. . . 62,600 116,100 155,580
Though at Sept. 30 practically £lOO,OOO of
the newest capital had not been called, suffi-
cient had been got in from shareholders. at
the balance to maintain a strong position
so far as the relation of funds to liabilities
was concerned. Twelve months ago the
Royal was holding £6 4s. of the public’s
money for every £ of its own ; bill? notwith-
standing the additional £1,273,496 since en-
trusted to its care (including, by the way,
£122,900 more Government deposits)_ the
proportion has been reduced to under £5 13s.
This of course improves the position from the
creditor’s point of view. But there are
other aspects. In 1914 51.5 p.c. of all lia-
bilities was held liquid; but the calls for
accommodation to finance heavy and costly
stocks has been so great that at Sept. 30
last only 34.4 p.c. of all liabilities was within
easy reach. The whole position from
creditors’ point of view at the two balances
was as follows: —
Liquid Advances and Total
Assets p.c. Premises p.c. Assets p.c.
of Liabilities, of Liabilities. of Liabilities.
1914.. £5l 9s. sd. £7O 12s. 6d. £122 Is. lid.
1920.. £34 Bs. 4d. £B7 18s. Od. £122 6s. 4d.
Though the protection afforded by liquid
assets is not so strong as it used to be, the
cover provided by all assets is larger. The
backing of shareholders’ funds is so strong
that over one-fourth of the book value of
advances and premises would have to be lost
before creditors need get nervy.
The heavy demands for accommodation and
abnormal trading conditions have had this
effect on the various items contributing to the
liquid assets shown above
Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1914. 1920. 1920.
Coin, bullion and Aus-
tralian notes, etc, . . £618,449 £937,443 £656,511
Short call money . . 130,000 21,457 Nil
Notes and bills of other
banks.. .. 19,362 28,748 27,410
Bills in transit . . 450,238 772,728 932,809
Public securities .. 69,955 329,860 90,415
Big movements are visible there: till money,
short call investments and public securities
together having fallen off £541,936 in six
months. The directors recently decided to
extend to Adelaide, and the acquisition of a
freehold there ran up the book value of pre-
mises by £39,880 during the half-year.
Farmer and Co., Ltd., who run a soft-
goods'shop in Sydney:—
» f Dividends. \
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
19Q8. . £28,702 £12,000 8 p.c.= £12,498 £4,430
1909.. 32,706 12,000 8 „ „ 12,498 12,638
1910.. 35,206 12,000 8 „ ~ 12,498 23,346
1911.. 38,945 12,000 10 „ „ 15,623 34,668
1912.. 43,027 12,000 121 „ ~19,529 46,166
1913.. 47,223 12,000 12| „ „ 19,529 61,860
Premiums on new shares, £17,508. . 79,368
1914.. 48,453 12,000 12$ p.c.= 20,134 95,687
1915.. 41,814 12,000 10 „ ~20,000 105,501
1916.. *40,161 12,000 124 „ „ 25,000 108,662
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord. m
6 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c.
1917.. *43,940 12,000 602 30,000 110,000
1918.. *49,590 12,000 7,590 30,000 110,000
1919.. *54,995 12,000 12,995 30,000 110,000
Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 10,000
124 P-c.
1920.. 98,049 12,000 14,331 32,500 49,218
♦Exclusive of appropriations to Reserve for War
Taxation and Contingencies.
In addition to the reserves of £49,218 shown
above there is £50,542 in a reserve for war
taxation and contingencies which had been
rapidly built up during the year. The pro-
fit entries in the table which carry an
asterisk show results after making appropri-
ations for this reserve. Probably Farmer’s
has met the whole of the amounts for
which it became liable under the war-profits
tax, and in that case the £50,542 may be
now regarded as actual stored-up profit. A
better view of the co.’s operations over the
past seven years is therefore provided by this
tabulation: —
Profits
(including additions
Paid to war taxation and
Capital. contingencies fund).
1914 . i £4uj,UUU £48,453
1915 .. 400,000 41,814
1916 . . 400,U00 50,161
1917 . . 501,355 68,910
1918 . . 552,032 73,599
1919 . . 602,710 79,047
1920 . . 719,266* 98,049
♦lncluding £lOO,OOO of capitalised reserves.
If the co. has paid all that it is liable to pay
in war-time and other taxes in respect of the
past year’s trading, then the £427,544 (which
is the £377,002 shown by the first table, plus
the £50,542 at present in the reserve) pro-
bably represents something like the true net
profit earned since the 1913 balance. Put
another way, so great has been the expansion
of the business during the seven years that
the apparent net profits during that period
have represented practically 107 p.c. of the
paid capital of £400,000 on which the co.
was working until 1916. Since then, how-
ever, paid capital has expanded to £719,266,
£lOO,OOO of the increase representing re-
serves capitalised during the past 12 months,
the balance of £219,266 being new cash-paid
capital puf, t*p by shareholders.
Though the profits position is somewhat
shrouded by the capital movements, it is
very evident that, like other Softgoods re-
tailers, Farmer’s has had a magnificent run
during the war years and since. The latest
disclosed profits are very fat; including the
contingencies reserve with cash-paid and
bonus capital and general reserves, after
providing the prefs.’ divs. there was a return
of almost 18 p.c. on the ordinaries’ funds.
In 1914 they earned under 12 p.c. The arti-
ficial prosperity has so helped the turnover
of expensive goods during the past year that
on an ordinary capital half as large again as
it was only a few months ago the directors
could have paid a div. of 20 p.c. out of the
year’s earnings—that is, if the bank would
have accommodated the distribution, for such
heavy stocks are being carried nowadays
that, notwithstanding all the new capital
got in during the recent years, the co. has
had to lean more heavily on outsiders. In
the first table the year’s dividend rate on
ordinary shares is shown at 124 p.c.; 10 p.c.
.was paid on the old £200,000 for the first
half and 15 p.c. on the enlarged capital
(£300,000) for the second half.
Profits have been particularly handsome in
view of the large amount of funds in free-
holds. Considerable new property has been
acquired during recent years, most of it
earning very little, though the business
brought in by the unique temporary display-
windows has probably helped to cover the
stiff rates and taxes which the co. is called
upon to pay on the otherwise unoccupied
land. This comparison shows how the co.’s
property interests have grown and also illus-
trates how, despite the new funds, the pro-
perty purchases, heavier stocks and larger
book debts have resulted in a substantial in-
crease of liabilities: —
1914. 1918. 1919. 1920.
Capital . . £400,000 £552,032 £602,710 £719,266
Liabilities . . 204,740 237,025 177,225 390,436
Freeholds and
plant . . 431,778 480,553 518,524 573,762
Leaseholds .. 14,356 12,052 10,911 2,349
Stock.. .. 174,659 394,774 369,222 545,096
Book debts .. 37,470 57,667 78,354 72,338
Cash and invest-
ments . . 56,048 32,990 7,254 38,416
In 1914 liabilities were made up of £167,140
borrowed on mortgage and £37,600 due to
sundry creditors; at July 31 last, notwith-
standing the new property purchases, the
amount due on mortgages had fallen off to
£114,050, but no less than £276,385 was
owing otherwise.
The Warrnambool Woollen Co. (Warr-
nambool, Vic.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. ten off. serves, serves.
1911.. £B7l Nil £B7l £399
Other goodwill items added, £4O .. 359
1912.. 2,490 5 p.c. = £1207 £1125 158 517
1913.. 5,637 6 „ „ 1557 2712 1368 1,885
Premiums on new shares .. 65 1,950
1914. . 3,956 6 p.c. = 1749 2498 1,659
Premiums on new shares .. 235 1,894
Forfeited shares .. • • 31 1,925
1915. . 12,428 10 p.c. = 5143 300 6985 8,910
1916.. 11,737 17 „ „ 8072 500 3165 12.075
1917.. 4,168 12 „ „ 5912 10,331
Premiums on new shares . . 5000 15,331
1918.. 9,198 12 p.c. = 6073 3125 18,456
1919.. 6,174 12 „ „ 7114 17,516
Premiums on new shares . . 9163 26,679
1920.. 14,531 12 p.c. = 8748 5783 32,462
This Warrnambool co. has been more for-
tunate than most Australian woollen con-
cerns. Being young—it was established in
1910 —its supporters escaped the cold periods
with which the industry was afflicted in
earlier years; on the other hand, having got
on to its feet prior to the war, it has had
a luscious time since 1914. First, fat war
contracts flowed in; and since then old-
world troubles have assisted Australian mills.
How this eo. has grown is shown by this
comparison :
Paid Capital. Gross Profits.
1914 .. £30,570 £7,591
1916 . . 48,254 31,897
1918 . . 56,181 19,542
1919 . . 60,000 22,467
1920 . . 83,639 38,078
The very fat profits of 1916 were, of course,
due to .war business; but so great have
become the peace demands of the Common-
wealth on local mills that gross profits for
the past year were £6lBl better than those
for 1916.
Actual net profits were probably even
better than those shown in the last line of
the table, for in addition to charging current
taxes against P. and L. the directors have
appropriated a further £2500 for taxation.
Incidentally, the £14.531 for the past year
is arrived at after clipping off £l5OO for an
employees’ provident fund. Actual net
profits also depend on the basis on which
stocks have been valijed and on the amounts
taken for depreciation, and with respect to
the latter generous allowances have certainly
been made. Practically 5 p.c. of the book
value of buildings was written off last yejir
and also 10 p.c. of plant and machinery. But
after making all allowances, the net profit
was over 17 p.c. on paid capital, so there is
a wide margin of profit available for reserves
after paying handsome dividends. Another
view of how well this Warrnambool woollen
mill has done is provided by this comparison
of the balance-sheet figures:—
1914. 1919. 1920.
Capital .. .. .. £30,070 £60,000 £83,639
Liabilities 15,249 17,882 4,742
Property and buildings .. 8,196 11,367 15,631
Plant and machinery .. 18,503 32,530 34,486
Stock 12,842 38,132 27,504
Sundry debtors . . . . 8,259 7,162 25,138
Other assets.. .. .. 2,967 9,806 27,083
Since 1914 £53,069 of new capital has been
got in, together with £14,398 of share pre-
miums. Liabilities are £10,507 less than six
years ago, and meantime liquid assets have
expanded from £24,068 t'o £79,725. This in-
creased liquid surplus will, of course, be cut
into as the present extensions are completed.
Over the six years the book value of fixed
assets has increased by £23,418. So since
the war started the co. has visibly improved
its position by £22,115 after paying dividends
averaging over 12 pjc. p.a.
The Langridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907. .£4724 4$ p.c.= £3323 £1,424 £24,076
1908.. 4838 5 „ ~ 3667 2.810 22,437
1909.. 5336 5 „ „ 3662 3,462 20,649
1910.. 5643 5 „ „ 3676 664 £1303 21,952
1911.. 6338 5 „ „ 3681 13,679 10,930
1912.. 6815 6 „ ~ 4354 2461 13,391
Shares forfeited .. 394 13,785
1913.. 7169 6 p.c. = 4348 2821 16,606
1914.. 6940 6 „ „ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8 „ „ 5637 1298 20,582
1916.. 6484 8 „ ~ 5593 891’ 21,473
1917.. 6783 8 „ ~ 5530 1253 22,726
1918.. 6598 8 „ „ 5515 1083 23,809
1919.. 6446 8 ~ „ 5515 931 24,740
1920.. 6696 8 „ ~ 5515 1181 25,921
The Langridge, it seems from the published
balance-sheets, is not over-sure about the
future. Anyhow, while other Melbourne
building societies have declared that they
have been inundated with new business offer-
ing, this one has actually reduced its ad-
vances, permitted its deposits to shrink and
also strengthened its holding of cash assets.
During the past year the management also
encountered a busted borrower, the book
value of foreclosed properties having in-
creased £BO9 since the 1919 balance. Com-
pared with only six years ago the co. is
working on £lO,OOO fewer deposits and its
advances are £12,000 less. A more detailed
view over many years is given hereunder: —
Deposits, Fore- Other
etc. Advances. ’ closures. Assets.
1905.. £12,229 £59,172 £54,245 £3678
1910.. 21,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
1914.. 26,826 115,745 3,996 Nil
1915.. 21,402 103,022 3,962 9139
1916.. 20,229 110,235 3,929 1012
1917.. 18,987 108,332 3,929 1839
1918.. 15,545 99,829 3,970 7941
1919.. 18,351 105,956 3,378 6144
1920.. 16,863 103,768 4,187 7216
The movements over the period covered by
the first three lines of the table indicate
how the Langridge recovered its punch after
the ’nineties’ knock-out. Unlike other build-
ing societies this one was able to meet all
its liabilities after the crash, but though
captal was not disturbed accumulated
reserves went to fill some holes, while profits
for many years afterwards went the same
way. But as the old foreclosed properties
were gradually worked off, the management
secured additional funds for which it could
find profitable employment. For the past
six years regular 8 p.c. divs. have been paid,
and meantime an amount equal to a further
9 p.c. on paid capital has been added to
reserves. Creditors are in a very comfort-’
able position: at the latest balance there
were assets with a book value of £115,171 to
meet total liabilities of only £16,863, and
£7132 of that indebtedness was covered by
War Loan and cash.


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Gonlburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [1
* * * •
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every. detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
Pioneer Wood Pipe. —Copy of letter received
from Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th Feb.,
1919: “Dear Sir —Yours of the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. The cost of
maintenance during the six years of service has been
nil. If we were putting in any further pipe lines
your firm would certainly be favored with our orders.
Yours truly (Sgd.), S. Southam, Sec.’’ Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville,
N.S.W. Contractors to all State Governments. —
Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
• • • •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
ps for Inventors’ Guide,— Advt.
• * * «
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from 1J to 54 cubic
ft. per batch, Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Uuiv.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
» • • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
The Patent “Curvilinear” Concentrator
has a capacity of % -ton per hour on fine feed, and up to 1 % ton per hour on coarse feed.
Considering that the overall length of the Table is under 12ft. with a width of only 4ft. this performance is remarkable.
this uns^)Kcited C^etterU,^^ * S & cons id<?ration where Mill area is limited. The Mineral-saving power of the Table is as extraordinary as its capacity: as witness
Guthridge Ltd., Camperdown, Sydney. Mascot Tin Mine, Tingha, N.S.W., 7th Oct., ’2O.
wear sirs, —With reference to the Concentration Plant supplied by you recently for the above mine, comprising an
elevator, a diaphragm cone classifier and one coarse and one fine “Curvilinear” Patent Concentrating Table, I am
p * Sa?r *, 18 , rU ? nins Particularly well and giving remarkably good results. During the six months’
fiT/ f of the . plan *’ repairs and replacements have been practically nil, totalling 18/-. Recently we conducted
a careful test to ascertain the exact recovery obtained, and the results are as follows*
Tonnage of parcel .. .. 13 Recovery .. .. ' .. .. 97 p . c .
Tin Oxide contents .. 24351 b. Recovery on coarse table .. 98.1 p.c.
mu « Oxule lost . . .. 73.721 b. Recovery on fine table .. .. 76.5 p.c.
The fine table treated material practically slime, being the overflow from the classifier.
The following are the assays which were made for us by Mr. Basil Turner-
( a C ! aB ?‘®f. P sp *f “*) , eSSP C. Tin. Fine Feed (Classifier overflow) ..
Coarse tailings (middlings being returned to battery) .. .12 p.c. Tin.' Fine Tailings (no middlings made
e * ce ® dln Kiy and we attribute them to the fact that no fine free tin ever passes the classifier spigot owing to its excellent design,
i is manes tne work of the coarse table comparatively easy, while the peculiar action of the Curvilinear Tables keeps all the tin, and especially the fine tin,
up on the deck.
In our opinion the “Curvilinear’ 1
.34 p.c. Tin
.08 p.c. Tin
is the most efficient and easily managed table ever produced.
Yours truly, ROBINSON BROS.
and
well
SOLE MANUFACTURERS AND PATENTEES:
GUTHRIDGE LTD
10-12 George Street, Camperdown (City), SYDNEY,
Mining, Ele dtrical and General Engineers.
The directors of the Commercial Bank of
Australia have lately found themselves
between the Devil and the deep sea. On
the one hand the business of the bank has
developed so rapidly that further funds have
been urgentlv needed (at June 30 last the
C.B.A. held £9 6s. lOd. of the public’s money
for every £ of its own funds). On the other
hand any proposal that might be devised for
raising new capital was likely to meet with
opposition from either one or other of the
two classes of shareholders. At present
there are 211,735 pref. shares contributing
£2,117,350 to the capital, and 191,318 ordi-
naries credited with £95,659. The former
are limited to 4 p.c.; the latter have not
had a taste since ’92. Every share, pref. and
ordinary, carries the same voting power;
so at present the prefs. have the say. That
is where the fun begins. At June 30 last
the clean-up of old troubles was not nearly
complete; there still remained a deficiency
which left the whole of the ordinary capital
and £330,743 of the pref. capital unrepre-
sented by assets. The' need of new funds
has been so great, however, that the direc-
tors have now taken the plunge and produced
a scheme for raising new capital. The pro-
posals go before shareholders in Melbourne
next week.
The directors propose to issue 403,054
new ordinaries of 10s. each, the prefs. being
granted . the “concession” of being entitled,
along with the ordinaries, to take up one of
these shares for every old one held. That
would be .all very well if there were no sting
in the tail —the shares are offered at a 100
p.c. premium! The premium goes to help
reduce the deficiency. In other words, by
coming into the scheme and thus making
divs. at once possible for the old ordinaries
(though there is not a ha’p’orth of assets
to represent their money), the prefs. are to
be permitted to take up a further interest
which will give them a comparatively poor
5 p.c. return, assuming that a 10 p.c. divi-
dend is paid. The concession does not
appear to be by any means liberal, and it
is questionable whether, if their full voting
strength could be mobilised, the prefs. could
be got to agree to the proposal.
There is a far better way out. The sooner
the old boom-time blot disappears from the
C.B.A. balance-sheet the better; also it is
not desirable that a bank’s shares should
be quoted at a discount, as the prefs. now
and are likely to continue to be. The
£lO 4 per-cents, are worth only about £6
10s. on the market. To clean the slate and
put the prefs. in a better position The
Bulletin suggests that the present £lO
shares be written down to, say, £B, and that
they should in future be entitled to 51 p.c.
p.a. That would mean writing off
£423,470 of pref. capital, but it would (1)
practically wipe off the deficiency; (2) give
the prefs. £8470 more by way of dividend
than at present; and (3) end the present
reflection upon the bank of having its shares
quoted at a heavy discount. To maintain
the bank’s position with its clients there
might then be an issue of ordinary shares,
as now proposed by the directors. On the
basis of latest-disclosed profits there would
be over £lOO,OOO p.a. available for the
ordinaries’ divs. without the assistance of
earnings on new funds. Supposing new
capital earned only 5 p.c. net, the directors
could pay 10 p.c. on the £95,659 of old
ordinary capital and on million of new
ordinary capital and still have over £30,000
p a. available for reserves. As shown above, it
would mean giving the prefs. a concession of
£8470 a year; but it would also, while clean-
ing up the accounts, open the way for the
ordinaries to have dividends straight away;
and that is surely worth something to them.
Also £2 per pref. share would be wiped out;
and that means altogether about £420,000.
That amount would then not have to be laid
by out of future earnings to restore capital.
* * * *
Rubber-manufacturing is the new indus-
try “Teddy” Dyason proposes that Bendigo
Amalgamated should undertake. For some
years he has been chairman of the very suc-
cessful Barnet-Glass Co., but he is now
relinquishing that job to establish the indus-
try on the old mining field. At the end of
last month Bendigo Amalgamated had a
£140,000 surplus of liquid assets, and Dyason
wants £lOO,OOO of that for the new side-
line.
* * * #
Concerning a new “dry” treatment process:
About 18 months ago George It. Brown, formerly
chief-electrical engineer at the Commonwealth Port-
land Cement (N.S.W.) and for a time with a French
co. at Wolfram Camp (N.Q.), set out to experiment
on a new process he had invented for the electrical
recovery of metals. There (s nothing new about the
application of electricity to the capture of metals,
but practically every attempt has "failed for one
reason or another. In this instance the inventor
decided that he had secured the necessary combina-
tion of factors, so the Electrostatic Separation Co.,
in 3000 shares of £l, was floated to enable him to
put theory into practice. The inventor got little
encouragement—except encouragement to abandon his
scheme of trying to overcome gravity by electrical
force. However, after toothcombing Sydney sufficient
cash was got together to construct a plant. But
while that work was in progress a backer or two
became nervous and unloaded shares for 10s. A
few months later the demonstration plant began to
talk, and some of those surrendered shares have since
changed hands at £2O apiece. This week the N. S.
Wales Thermogravum Electrofugal Treatment and
Mining Co., in 60,000 shares of £l, all privately
subscribed, blossomed forth to put the process to the
test.
The process is a dry one, and that usually means
insufferable dust. But Brown’s apparatus is air-
tight, being enclosed in a cylinder through which
air-suction draws the dust away. The process
utilises three forces—centrifugal, gravitation and
electrical—and the secret of the apparatus is the con-
trol and combination of these forces. The crushed
material is automatically fed into the compact plant,
first flowing into a revolving 3ft. basin (giving the
centrifugal throw). Then the electrical force and
gravity come into play; the metal contents being
more heavily charged with electricity are elevated
and driven into one receptacle, other contents being
less charged succumb earlier to gravity and make
away along another channel, to be automatically
treated again as many times as there are units pro-
vided in the column. Some of the recoveries thus far
obtained on the full-sized single-unit plant have been
extraordinary. The “Wild Cat” the other day wit-
nessed a run on silicious copper and iron-sulphide
ores, a smelting product being obtained in a single
unit of a commercial-size apparatus. The in-
ventor claims that 2 to 3 p.c. silicious copper ores
can be made to pay handsomely; also that there is
“no reasonable doubt” that refractory'gold and silver
ores can be treated successfully, with “enormous
probabilities” offering in the treatment of dumps.
With the new capital raised the co. intends to
build up a single-column plant on its Darlinghurst
(Sydney) unit and ascertain results from parcels
of about 50 tons. And, since the present plant has
indicated that the bugbear of the copper industry,
silica, can be removed rapidly at low cost, the
co. is also interesting itself in the silicious copper
ores of the Orange district. A start is to be made
on the Mt. Nicholas mine. From crudes going 5.12
p.c. copper, 22.1 p.c. iron and 54.3 p.c. silica, <3.
R. Brown reckons that at the first enrichment he
can win a concentrate going 12.18 p.c. copper, 33.6
p.c. iron and 21.4 p.c. silica. On the basis of a
central treatment plant handling 40 tons per hour
he estimates an outside cost of 2s. 3d. per ton, cover-
ing all outlay from ore to concentrate bins, with
tails dumped. Allowing for mining costs at £ 1
per ton crudes, and another £1 for carting, he
figures all-in costs at £5 ss. Bd. per ton concen-
trates, with a smelting return of £6 19s. 6d.
(copper at £B6). This would give 13s. 6d. profit
per- ton crudes. The capital cost of a 40-ton-per-
hour plant is set down at £75,000. The new co.
will put these figures to the test, and also ascer-
tain what the enlarged plant can do on other ores.
***•*•
“O.B.”: Visited Hampton Plains and Mt.
Monger the other day after an absence of
four months. On the former field dozens of
leases have been abandoned, and dozens of
others are being shepherded in the hope that
another boom will occur. Machinery is being
erected on the Celebration, but work under-
ground is practically at a standstill. Mutoo-
roo, Pernatty, the Jubilee Group, Golden
Hope and a few others are continuing, the
struggle. White Hope is the busiest spot
on the Plains, but if progress reports are
any criterion the mine is developing much
below expectations. At Monger little or
no genuine development is being done, and
the writing on its wall is plainly visible.
Abandoned dumps on shows for which big
prices were asked at the start of the now-
busted boom dot the landscape. Ontimistic
reports are still being issued by the few
cos. working there,, but the market only
sniffs. Several disappointed Hampton and
Monger cos. have gone to Widgiemooltha,
where I heard some wonderful tales about
hidden wealth. I had a look at several
alleged bonanzas, but I did not see anything
good enough for a co. There are plenty of
reefs and leaders in the locality, but they
are small, and values do not appear to last.
* * * *
The deposit of manganese in the Horse-
shoe Kange, near Peak Hill (W.A.), State
mining-engineer Montgomery estimates to
contain at least 1,250 000 tons of marketable
ore worth £13,000,000, besides enormous
quantities of lower-grade ferruginous stuff.
G. V. Dunn, late manager of the South
Australian Manganese Co., doubles Mont-
gomery’s estimate. The ground is held by a
small local co. which has induced the Govern-
ment to introduce a bill to authorise the
construction and working of a private rail-
way from Meekatharra, and when this line is
built the co. proposes to quarry and rail the
ore to Geraldton for shipment abroad. The
management reckons that the ore can be
landed in England at under £5 per ton, which
is half its present selling price, and that an
output of 50,000 to 70,000 tons a year can
be maintained. But a lot of capital, pro-
bably running into several hundreds of
thousands, will be needed to work the de-
posits.
• * * *
Cue (W.A.) is very much down at heel,
and as its epitaph may have to be chiselled
before long, inquiries are being made as to
who really was the discoverer. Opinions
differ. Some old-timers say that Fitzgerald
and Heffernan were the first to find gold on
the field ; others declare that the late Tom
Cue was ahead of them. The best mine at
present is the Light of Asia, worked; by the
Mararoa, but owing to the shortness of the
shoots and high cost of working its future
hangs by a slender thread.
* * * *
When M|utooroo Central threw in its
Hampton Plains lease shareholders decided to
have a go at the Crown and Anchor, a Wid-
giemooltha show from which 300 tons were
declared to have averaged 9|dwt. But Hamp-
ton Plains swallowed so much cash that
manager W. H. Collins has so far been able
to undertake only a little development work.
A vertical and an underlay shaft are both
down 50ft., and where they connect is a
20ft. oxidised lode carrying quartz veins.
This lode has been driven on 130 ft., 80ft.
bulking 405., the rest apparently of a grade
not worth recording. In the south drive
boring has given indications of pay stuff, so
a winze is to go down to 100 ft.—that is, if
shareholders put up the necessary, only
f 100 being left in the till at September 30.
and if values met at 50ft. live down a treat-
ment plant is to follow.
• » * *
“State Geologist”: “De Carteret” (B.
4/11/’2O) rather emulates Westralian Mine-
Minister Scaddan in sweeping assertions
when he states that not one single State
Geologist has ever officially admitted that
petroleum may ultimately be found in the
Commonwealth, and that most of them igno-
rantly deny the possibility of finding it
Rather rough on us, that sweeping assertion.
Is “Carteret” not aware of the oil-drilling
developments in Queensland, and of the work
of State Geologist Cameron, who has again
and again officially stated that the prospects
of getting petroleum are most favorable, and
that indications point to it occurring over
large areas of jurassic rocks in West Queens-
land? When “De Carteret” has finished
his Australian geological investigations he
will find that this is not a tertiary continent,
and that much of the brown-coal and kero-
sene shales are in much older geological
formations. The tertiary formations of
Eastern Australia, with the possible excep-
tion of Morwell (Vic.), are hopeless for oil.
They are thin beds of lacustrine and fluvia-
tile origin and buried leads, which have been
economically important for tin and gold, but
for oil —no! The only considerable tertiary
formations are in the Australian Bight lit-
toral of West and South Australia, and
along the lower reaches of the Darling and
Murray rivers. Anyhow, tertiary beds are
not the only oil horizons. Perhaps the
oldest is the Trenton limestone of U.S.A., of
Ordovician age, but England has found oil
in carboniferous strata, likewise Canada and
U.S.A., and Argentina produces it from the
jurassic.
* * * *
An effort is being made to resurrect the
Vulcan, Irvinebank (Q.). Though no ore
was picked up in the bottom level (1400 ft.),
the old hands believe that payable stuff is
there, but that the workings were not taken
far enough south. State mining-engineer C.
F. Jackson considers this probable, and on
his advice the State offers to advance £2OOO
to assist to unwater the mine and swing the
drive round, provided the co. will put up
£ for £. As a feeler the directors recently
called up Id. per share, and shareholders
are declared to have responded well. Now
Syd Sheppard, who worked in the Vulcan
as a boy and became manager in the palmy
davs of the mine, is being sought to aid
resuscitation.
* * « *
The State mills and smelters at Irvine-
bank (Q.), formerly in the hands of the
Irvinebank Mining Co., still continue to eke
out a crust, but the want of another mine
like the old Vulcan is sadly felt. Parcels of
stone from small parties help to keep the
mill going. How old John Moffat would
have performed if he had been told that this
was to be the end of his efforts!
* * * »
At the beginning of this year The Oaks
(N.Q.) was passed over to a tribute syndi-
cate of shareholders, who pooled a little more
cash to add 5-head to the old 10-head bat-
tery. When the books closed on Sept. 30
the enlarged plant had been in operation
only one month, but it had demonstrated
that, notwithstanding heavier exes., a profit
could be squeezed from 2dwt. stone. The
four weeks’ run gave 130ioz. from 1300
tons, resulting in a profit of £llO after
allowing for all working and administrative
exes. The previous eight months’ work
with 10-head gave a loss of £549. The
tribute was originally timed to expire on
Sept. 30, 1921, but if tributors weigh in with
another £6OO (they have thus far put uj
£820) to complete the purchase of new
plant there is to be a year’s extension.
Manager Tully has hopes of again getting on
to something a little better than 2dwt. A. H.
Clarke, who now fathers the field, even has
visions of the old co. some day taking over
and adding to the battery.
i Clark’s, Charters Towers (Q.), paid its
14th sixpenny the other day. The last two
crushings averaged about £8 per ton, but
costs are high, for the narrowness of the reef
persists, the pay-ore averaging , only about
Bm. The shoots continue to show a steady
i n value at depth, for between
4U(Jft. and 500 ft. crushings of over £2O per
ton were not uncommon. Of the deeper
mines it is the only one now working at the
lowers. The field furnished some very
rich shoots on other reefs at levels below
the present bottom of Clark’s workings, and
the co. may have the luck to strike another
of these.
* » ♦ *
Another Charters Towers (Q.) co., the
Sardine North, has been formed to work
the property adjoining the Sardine mine at
Kangaroo Hills. The latest work in the
Sardine indicates that the shoot is making
towards this ground, and the new co.’s job
is to intercept it.
* * * *
Mt. Garnet (Q.), once a name to con-
jure with, is rapidly becoming merely a
memory. Already one of the two stores has
shut down—always an ominous sign. Mt.
Garnet was a big and good ore body, but
zinc showed up at depth, and values in
copper and silver fell off. Indifferent man-
agement did the rest.
Compeer Tin Mines has been floated in
Launceston, in GO,OOO shares of ss. each, to
work 170 acres of tin drifts at the Blue Tier.
The property has been well prospected, 125
bores indicating an average of slightly over
lib. per yard.
* * * *
The Speck’s latest gold venture is Mt.
Brown, at Golconda. A gold-bearing lode
has been exposed in two tunnels at Panama
Creek, and indications are declared to justify
40,000 shares of 10s. gach. The vendors plan
to take no less than one-half of the shares,
though hitherto the district has been found
to carry very little of the yellow metal.


there someone in the t
* new room ?
Nothing unusual,my dear. It b
only the "burglar i’
House-holder:' Could you do
if a bit quieter, old roan ?, Ive got
ftie gramophone going
* But Iv«z dropped calling on
the Phis, - Stanton $ ”
* How is my dear T "
'* oh’ Tio longer of our
Their burglar- ohly oallS
tvcice a week now,
you Know.
Jot?n Hop IS Ms property. Sir ? *
1 TKffi Burg :*■ -Wait HaJt a. tick, and « w '\ h % i
Poet : *"The. burglars in!'
Artist :“ y<zs ■ nhzd happened
Poet: ° Searched my room, aood then xnzz. shilling '/
« Burglan , you can have all the tradeS -men have lefl-
you v/ill find it in the C6al scuttle. "
* But there is nothin* in the coal scuttle
* That- is right/'
THE BURGLAR BOOM.


TH E
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company Having;
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
/jsmm
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Sydney.
Olderfleet. Collins Street. Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A.—H. .Little 6- Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARniNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHKJSSEMAN.
acaesas
PLU
m
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH”
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney Agents. [4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Melbourne Cup Day saw Henry Moses,
N. S. Wales M.L.C., father of the owners
of the Cup-winner, reach his 88th year. A
native of Windsor, his father Uriah being a
storekeeper and dealer there, Henry later
(1869-80) sat in the Assembly for the dis-
trict (Hawkesbury )in which'he was born.
Then, after one term as M.L.A. for Canter-
bury, he was appointed to the Leg. Council
(1885), and still sits there, the Father of
the Chamber. Dr. Creed, who is 10 years
younger, was appointed the same day by the
Stuart Government, every member of which
has gone west.
A young man named Pope will be Aus-
tralia’s commissioner to act with representa-
tives from Britain and Maoriland in the con-
trol of the phosphate deposits on Nauru Is-
Pope, who sprang from N. S. Wales
and is 37, spent 10 years with the Pacific
lhosphate Co., and just before the war,
wherein he did his bit with the A.1.F., he was
in the British “Colonial” service. A while
back he was offered the job of Treasurer of
the West Indian island of Dominica, but de-
clined and sank back into a comfortable seat
m the Prime Minister’s department. His new
berth carries a screw of £l5OO or £2OOO a
year.
Jerry Smith, most unpopular of Westralian
Cocked Hats, has gone to his account. At
Southern Cross, in the Roaring ’Nineties, a
worried stationmaster, name of Horan
(still on deck at Gin-gin, on the Midland
railway line), re-
commended the
Governor to go to
Hell. His Nibs
travelled instead to
Peak Hill, where
Darlington Simp-
son soothed his in-
jured feelings by
feeding him off
platters of smelted
gold. Those are
the things for
which Jerry is re-
membered —the in-
dignity of the one
incident and the
vulgarity of the
other. Gerald
Browne, son of Rolf
Boldrewood, the
novelist, married
his daughter.
SWANSON, my
Lord Mayor of
Melbourne, who
takes over the job
this week.
John Campbell Mackintosh, editor of the
Australasian and deputy-editor of the
Argus, was a big, vigorous Scotch-Austra-
lian, who looked good to pass SO. as Iris
mother, still living, has done; but blood-
poisoning suddenly closed his account
at 44. Mackintosh started out intending
to make his way in the law, but took to
writing instead, and was wisely advised to
get the wide experience that a smallish city
affords. So he went to Perth to graduate,
and from there passed to the leader-writing
staff of the Argus. He represented his
papers on the Australian press delegation
that went to Europe in 1918 on the invita-
tion of the British Government —the young-
est member of the party, a scholarly journal-
ist and a courteous gentleman.
Simon Hickey, M.L.A. for Botany
(N.S.W.), was unanimously elected to the
Public Works Committee —resurrected by the
Storey Government after a slumber of nearly
four years, in the hope that its inspections
will for a time silence the clamor of districts
which demand tramways, railways, duplica-
tions, deviations and water-supply schemes,
for which the cash isn’t available. Hickey,
who was afterwards selected Chairman of
the Committee, owes his unanimous election
to his courtesy and amiability, and to the
feeling that his moderation robbed him of
the portfolio in the Storey Cabinet to which
his long services and intelligence entitled
him. He is a son-in-law of the late J. R.
Dacey, who was Treasurer in the very early
days of the McGowen Ministry. On Dacey’s
death Hickey won his seat.
Years ago, when parties in the Vic-
torian Parliament were about as evenly
divided as they are now, both sides were bid-
ding for the support of one Harris, a Gipps-
land member. The
Argus, desiring to
stir Harris' up,
headed some para-
graph about him
“The Member for
Sale,” Sale being
in his electorate.
Harris mentioned
it in the House,
and the majority,,
then as now with-
ou t a sense of
humor, solemnly
passed a resolution
t@ the general ef-
fect that Harris
wasn’t a merchant-
able commodity.
Federal
Speaker
ELLIOT
JOHNSON.
Squatter Robert A. Moleswortli, son of
“old Moley,” the eminent early-Victorian
Judge, passed out the night before the Cup,
aged 76. He saw the Derby and dined at
Melbourne Club the same night, and next
morning heart trouble set in. A Dublin
man, he came to Vic. as a youth, topped Off
his education at the Uni., and then aban-
doned his intention of becoming an engineer.
Beginning as a jackeroo on Stephen Henty’s
Walla Walla station, near Albury, he got
broken in, and then went in for squatting in
Vic, and N. S. Wales. His wife, who was
a daughter of John Matheson, the banker,
died nine years ago. She was well-dowered
with broad acres over Hamilton way.
“Donegal” digs up a genealogical tree: —
The MeSweeneys, McSweenys and McSwineys
originally came from Ulster. The clan whose Gaelic
name of Suibbne has been Anglicised in these various
ways once held great possessions in' Donegal, and its
heads were scattered abroad over the face of the earth
after the plantation of Ulster. Some of them migrated
to Spain, where they flourished greatly. One Mc-
Sweeney was Spanish Ambassador at Vienna in 1776
and it is recorded that on St. Patrick’s Day he gave
a great ball which was attended by 20 field-marshals,
noblemen and others of Irish descent. Another of
the family was Admiral in the service of the Republic
of Venice. The McSwiney members of the family
wandered too. The father of Alderman Terence Mc-
Swiney settled in Melbourne, where he died 22 years
ago.
Jock Thomson, who has sold two of his
Yampi Sound (W.A.) iron-ore leases to
the Queensland Government for £30,000, is
another of those conquering Scots. He has
traversed Westralia from Ravensthorpe to
the Kimberleys in quest of gold and base
metals, and the search has taken him to
Timor, where he still has interests, and West
Africa. Jock was the originator of the
Miners’ Corps which went to the Western
Front under the leadership of Professor
David, and although close up to 60 he ac-
companied it himself. He is Mayor of
Claremont, a suburb of Perth, and president
of the local R.S.A., and he has political
ambitions which weren’t chilled by an un-
successful run for the Senate.
William Brownbill, who after two tries
and a lHribng de' r ot : on to Labor, has ousted
Robert Purnell from the Vic. State seat of
Geelong, is “father” of the Geelong City
Council, with 26 years’ continuous service.
He is also ex-mayor; for Geelong in the first
war year, to encourage recruiting and as
pledge of its convictions that all classes were
now as one. did the unheard-of thing and
elected an acknowledged Laborite to the chair.
An excellent mayor he made, too. Brown-
tried his wings as speaker in the local
A.N.A., and until he was elected owned a
comfortable little bakery business. He is a
likeable, religious little man and a soldier’s
father.
When they were both in the Vie. Assembly
strong but unsuccessful efforts were made to
bring about a coalition between Peacock and
Irvine. It never came off, and they met for
the first time to transact Executive Council
business together last week —Irvine as Lieut.-
Governor; Peacock as a Minister.
Mrs. Mary Rogers, an organiser for the
Labor party, is the first woman to be elected
to a municipal council in Vic. She has got
the Central Ward (Richmond) seat vacated
by Barcelo, who resigned recently. It was
Lawson who piloted through the bill per-
mitting women to sit in municipal councils.
He was then Attorney-General’ in the Peacock
Cabinet.
Alec Taylor, who succeeds W. Smith as
general secretary of the Vic. Railway Union,
is not exactly a Frank Ilyett, but he knows
the job, as he has been president and execu-
tive officer for years. As chief president of
the A.N.A. in Vic., he did tip-top work in
the first year of the war, giving a fine lead
in friendly-society effort. Fat, good-tem-
pered, industrious and sincere, he has many
friends outside Labor. Smith has become
secretary of the Federated Union of Rail-
waymen in the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth Railway service is a
useful recruiting ground for Private Enter-
prise. The latest to follow Malcolm Hen-
derson, formerly mechanical superintendent
and now head serang at Perry Bros.’
engineering works at Gawler (S.A.), is J.
J. Poynton, traffic superintendent, who goes
to manage the Midland Railway Co. (W.A.).
at £1750 a year. J.J. is a younger brother
of Alec Poynton, M.H.R., Home and Terri-
tories Minister. The Midland is the biggest
privately-owned railway in Australia. Poyn-
ton’s predecessor, Stead, was district super-
intendent of the W.A. Government railways
before the company grabbed him; ill-health
obliged him to retire from his managerial
job, in which he made good.
Both Senator Harding and Governor Cox,
his beaten rival for the U.S. Presidency,
own German connections. Cox’s mother was
of Boche descent, and so is Harding’s wife.
One Kling was the richest citizen of Marion,
the one-horse township where Harding
started a newspaper. Harding married Miss
Kling against parental orders, and both were
warned off the premises. Then Marion
grew and Harding's paper with it. It is
not often that a runaway couple are in a
position to hand such a stunning “I told
you so” to the heavy father. Cox is also
a newspaper proprietor. Both belong to
Ohio. They know more of the rough-and-
tumble of life than Woodrow Wilson; but,
on the proofs so far presented, neither has
a tithe of the professor’s intellectuality.
Lord Robert Innes-Ker, who has just mar-
ried Josie Collins, is a tall, youthful-looking
Irish Guardsman, of Scotch extraction, who
did a good deal of war service on the London
front. The Roxburghe family was more or
less impoverished until the present duke
(Lord Robert’s eldest brother), who was in
Australia with the present King 20 years
ago as A.D.C., married • the daughter of
Ogden Goelet, of the U.S.A. Her money
served to put Floors, the family seat in
Scotland, in repair at a time when the
attention was badly needed. Josie Collins
had a short season at Sydney Tivoli half a
dozen years ago, but she left those who had
seen her mother, Lottie, extremely cold.
Lottie was the embodiment of uproarious
Cockney vulgarity: Josie has the genteel
manner of a young lady assistant in a Lon-
don shop. She is a Jewess.
An old Galleryite is reminiscent:—
Optimist that he is, Alec Peacock must admit that
the 26th Victorian Parliament, of which, through
Outtrim’s defeat, he is senior member, is vastly
inferior in calibre to the 14th, which came into
being on the day he was first elected to the Assem-
bly—March 28, 1889. He is the last of the 143
of that time, for there were then 95 members of
the Assembly and 48 of the Council, as compared
with 65 and 34 respectively now. What a Parlia-
ment the 14th was i Duncan Gillies, who was at his
zenith, was Premier. Beside him on the Treasury
bench sat his “equal-in-all-things” in the Coalition,
Alfred Deakin, Chief Secretary and Minister for
Water Supply—the hope of ardent young Australians.
The House contained men like Munro, Shiels, Patter-
son, Turner, McLean and Murray, each of whom
subsequently became Premier, and Turner and
McLean were also Federal Ministers; G. D. Carter,
F. T. Derham, J. G. Duffy, G. D. Langridge, Walter
Madden, Mclntyre, Bryan O’Loghlen, Professor
Pearson, W. C. Smith, W. A. Trenwith, A. L. Tucker,
J. H. Wheeler, Henry Wrixon, Charles Young and
the picturethque Zox. In the other House, Torified
as it was, there were Sargood, Service, Balfour, But-
ters, Coppin, Cuthbert. J. M. Davies, F. S. Dobson,
Nicholas Fitzgerald, C. J. Ham, Macßain, Thornley,
Wynne and Zeal. At least 65 of the Assembly
men of ’B9 have gone hence. Best and Maloney
are the only two in the Federal Parliament. Derham,
Dow, Jack Gardiner, George Graham, Joe Harris,
Tom Hunt. Joe liirton, Walter Madden, Jimmy
McColl, Tom Smith, Jack Taverner (London) and
Trenwith come under notice occasionally outside
Parliament. The gentlemanly Winter Cooke, who
was in the Patterson Ministry as an honorary; and
Wynne, who has just retired from the Assembly,
appear to be the only survivors of the Uppah House
of 'B9,
ARTIST JAMES ASHTON,
OF ADELAIDE.
A kind of link with the old chain-gang was
lost the other day at Hobart. Miss Booth,
who died aged 81, was born at Port Arthur
while her father was commandant there.
Afterwards he settled down to a quieter
billet as head of the orphan-school at Hobart
Town.
J. S. White, who was an old man when
he left the Vic. Assembly 18 years ago, after
10 years’ service as member for Albert Park,
is still quite robust, and was in Collins-
street the other day taking an interest in
Lawson and Peacock, with the old fuzzy
framework of whiskers around his face.
Donald Mackinnon is to leave on a trip to
Europe on March 5. He has taken his
passage by the Nakundra. Some of his
former constituents are keen to enter a peti-
tion against Parker’s right to hold the Pr’an
seat, but it does not seem likely that Mac-
kinnon will take any action himself. He is
still giving a hand with soldier-settlement, as
a sort of honorary gent.-help.
The “double-personality” idea is officially
recognised at Darwin. As a Supreme Court
Judge Major Gerald Hogan, who followed
Judge Bevan, heard an appeal from the
decision of one Major Gerald Hogan, a
special magistrate, in the case of a citizen
charged with putting too much alcohol into
his hop-beer. When he isn’t appealing to
himself from his own decisions. Hogan is
Master of the Supreme Court, Registrar of
Probates, a Commissioner of Insolvency, and
Chairman of the Licensing Bench.
Thomas Pye, of Judd’s Creek (N.S.W.),
has taken the long track. He was one of
the Pyes who long ago owned most of the
Bathurst district: Boonoomoogoo station,
■sold a few months back, was one of their
many properties. His dad was Thomas Pye,
“the father of Parramatta,” and Tom fils
was educated at King’s School. A fine old
Australian, he was a racy raconteur of the
exploits of Ben Hall and other bushrangers,
and a noted judge of stock, the Pye brand
of horseflesh being famous in the “Near
West.” He was 87 when the light went out.
“I DUNNO!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dunno w’y
Th’ sun don’t shine so warm-like in th’ sky.
Dunno ’ow
Th’ gildy side of things ’as rubbed orf now.
Dunno w’en
I sorter noticed things was black agen,
An’ left orf fussin’ ’bout me clo’es an’ ’air—
’N’ I don’ care!
'E’s trackin’ after a flash dark-’aired skirt.
I knows ’er sort —they’re nothin’ else but dirt,
Though most of ’em walks gen’ral in th’ streets
Ter make a beast of any fool they meets,
An’ do’ em in fer ev’rything they can
(O Gawd; w’y don’t Yer put less male in man!).
She’ll ’ang to ’irn till she’s got orl ’is stuff,
'Then she’ll ’ave ’ad enough ;
An’ more than likely ’e’ll sneak back ter me,
Telliri ’ow big a man ’e’s goin’ ter be
In future. This time ’e can ’old ’is jor—
I’ve ’eard th’ tale before;
An’ I believed it once—an’ once agen.
I’m fed full up of men!
But I dunno
W’y in th’ bloomin’ world I worry so.
An’ I don’ see
W’y what ’e does means anythin’ ter me.
But I don’ mean
Ever agen ter let ’im see I’m keen
On ’avin’ ’im meself. An’ ’e can swear—
But I don’ care!
VICTORIA.
E. M. H.
THE DISILLUSIONED CORONER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am tired of this story of the bewildered pedes-
trian and the motor-car.” — Melbourne’s deputy
coroner.
The coroner sat in his padded chair
As sad as a man could be,
As he ran his hands through his greying hair
He mournfully said, “Dear me,
This tale of the car and the hesitant bloke
Is branded by use as a worn-out joke!”
“In fact, I’m beginning to think,” he said,
With a disillusioned frpwn,
“That considered all ways the lately dead
Are the dullest folk in town ;
They have bored me stiff with their foolish ends —
I cease to regard them as decent friends.
“They die from a bullet or hank of rope
Or a motor-car or a blow;
Over-long have I known I may not hope
For a death I do not know;
They go to the grave on some shop-soiled plea,
And they never think of amusing me.
In my boyhood’s days I was fain to think
The dead an amusing crew ;
Tut-tut! as they tremble upon the brink
They never do aught that’s new.
How I wish they’d learn, as their shibboleth,
It is novelty that’s the spice of deathi
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.


■
t
H
/•" N V
.
11
0. :; . ;
, ¥
.V, V
* w
BH
.
, '- ..'5.
a: &. -J
“ i.
/
: < v
Xfltnatx^:
* mm#fr #& ** #
■&****.<& '^wfEH
3**
-«
r
..<■*
1
H
.
iiiiiiiiii
•■'*?>• ”-■■ -^>l
PH
SB
m% - mmxi
Hi
•• &
mm
Hi
m
%
m
mm
m i
it
a
m
i|§H
;,r
*■■?:
tIM
m
mm
i ■
■
■ i
H
1
mmm.
•Mi
i m
Wm®
m i •
Hil i«
m
sm.
mm
m
(Q>
D
D
r
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE
mm


For the Hot Days
A light suit that will keep its shape— something that
you NEED for Summer days. It is a Peapes “No-
Vest 6” style made from thoroughly shrunk Light
Drab Rep. finish Crash. The coat has three buttons
in front, three outside patch pockets. Detachable
buttons. Trousers: Side, hip and fob pockets and
permanent turn-up bottoms.
An ideal suit for seaside or week-end holidays—cool
and comfortable on the hottest days.
Ready to wear: 52/6
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside lea-
measurements. °
New catalogue sent on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
£2
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires, special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing f
Oil. [2
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
A LITTLE BIT UP WHERE HER
SLEEVE SHOULD BE.
“If you could have two wishes come true,
what would they he?”
“Well, I’d wish for a husband.”
“That’s only one.”
“Uni, I think I’d save the other until I saw
how he turned out.”
“Whitehall”: There is an old French story
about an ancient dame who, on being remon-
strated with by the priest for confessing the
same splendid sin over and over again, ex-
plained apologetically that she liked to brood
over the occurrence. Such is the psychology
of ladies like Mrs. Asquith and Lady Car-
digan, who write memoirs which make
eminent old gentlemen (or their relations, if
the celebrities are fortunate enough to be
dead when the volumes are published) leap
like the pantomime clown who has had a
red-hot poker applied to the seat of his
breeches. Another impelling force is a love
of advertisement for its own sake, and at
any price. It has been a disease with Mrs.
Asquith for 40 years. No one who now
looks at her gaunt figure, in its insanely-
fashionable clothes topped by a face which
suggests a neurotic bird of prey, can believe
that this was once the attractive creature
whom Benson drew in “Dodo.” But to the
public, at theatres, at races and elsewhere,
she makes it plain that she still considers
herself a beautiful woman. Her unconven-
tional ways have done incalculable damage
to her husband’s political career, England
being a country which will stand no d —d
nonsense from its Prime Ministers or their
families. Her friendship with Maud Allan,
the bare-leg dancer, was alone worth several
constituencies to the Tories. As regards
the inaccuracies, which the Cecils, Churchills
and others have begun to nail to the counter,
there is no reason to believe that any of
them was retailed in bad faith. There is a
type of vaunting sensationalist in every walk
of life who, after privately trying out a piece
of scandal three or four times, is prepared
in all good faith to swear to it iff public. It
is one of the things that make the job of
editing a newspaper so much more difficult
than it looks on the surface.
* * * •
From a man in the fluff trade: —
The S. M. Herald made many a breakfast egg
taste better on Friday by announcing that York-
street had at last followed Flinders-lane and London
and was making from 10 per cent, to 20 per cent,
reductions in cottons, etc. There are a lot of us in
York-street who should have known about this, but
didn’t know, and still don’t. As a matter of fact
there has been 'no general cut in' prices. But nearly
every house is so heavily stocked that when a chance
comes to get rid of a big line a-concession is made.
Thus we sold a ss. 6d. line yesterday at ss. a yard
because the order was for over £lOOO worth. Our
stocks are too heavy. They don’t look it; but calico
costs 20d. instead of 4d., and other things corres-
pond. As for York-street following Flinders-lane
“at last”—well, all the general reduction that
Flinders-lane has made is harmless. Certainly a
circular or two have been issued, and they remind
one of things I’ve known here in Sydney. Once
there was a line in one of our departments that was
moving off very slowly. We decided to sweep it
out, and, though marked at 25., we jobbed the whole
lot to a big Sydney shop at Is. The stuff was offered
there a,t 2s. 6d. —a very fair profit on our old whole-
sale price of 2s. A week or two later the retailer’s
“sale” started, and the line was “specially reduced
from 2s. 6d. to Is. lid.” And that’s about the
strength of some of the Flinders-lane reductions.
There are not going to be any serious general reduc-
tions until the British manufacturer makes them;
and at present he isn’t making them in cottons, and
probably won’t while his mills are as full of orders
as they are at present. Hit troubles about Mr.
McTiernan calling him a profiteer.
* * * *
A librarian’s tale :
A sneak-thief who got into Prof. Scott’s room at
Melbourne Uni. and lifted a hat and an overcoat took
away in the pocket a notebook containing the
results of about a month’s work at the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, where the
Prof, had been delving
into original documents,
about Hume and Hovell’s
overland trip to Port
Phillip in 1824-1825 and
the names they called each
other afterwards. The main
conclusion to which the
victim’s researches led him
was that Hume either had
a bad memory or was a
fluent liar, and that Hovell
probably wasn’t as bad
as he has often been
reckoned. Incidentally, the
first edition of the account
of the journey, edited by
Dr. Bland and published
at Sydney in 1833, is
now about the scarcest
book in the world. There
is only one copy in exist-
ence, as far as is known,
and that is in the collec-
tion of William Dixson, of
Sydney.
Spare Corp”: When the army heads
woke up to the seriousness of the ■ spy
menace (B. 28/10/’2O) and cleared the
fighting areas of their remaining civil occu-
pants, some queer steps were taken for the
detection of spies in uniform. In the A.I.F.
the order was passed round that every man
must have the sleeves of his tunic roiled to
the elbow. For once German thoroughness
was at fault, and Huns in Digger habili-
ments, their unrolled sleeves drawing special
attention to them, stumbled into the trap.
* * * *
“After his marvellous escape in that rail-
way accident,” said Archbishop Riley the
other day to the Anglican Synod at Perth,
the Prince did not come to our thanksgiving
service. He said he 'could not stand it.’”
The Archbishop naturally inferred, as any
archbishop would, that H.R.H. felt too
broken up to be present. But that mayn’t
have been quite what the sportive youth
meant.
* * * *
A layman’s view of it:—
I observe that Edwards, M.L.A., of South Aus.,
who made such a calamitous ass of himself in the
Jerger case, has been howling for the head of the
honorary gynaecologist who is alleged to have left
a pair of forceps in the abdomen of a female patient
on whom he had operated for a tumor. It has been
shown that the operation was performed under
exceptionally difficult circumstances owing to the
absence of surgeons and nurses at the war, that
instead of having an assistant-surgeon and two
trained nurses the operator had to rely upon such
help as an inexperienced young woman could afford,
and that counting the instruments after the operation,
to make sure that nothing had been left behind, was
not his job. But these considerations didn’t appeal
to the implacable Edwards. He demanded the name
of the overworked sawbones who had tried to relieve
a fellow-creature’s agony gratis, and also that of
the medico who had recovered the instrument after
the lapse of three years. If the desired announce-
ment were made one practitioner would get a ruin-
ous advertisement and the other an unmerited
boost. I wonder if Edwards, or his patron AVren,
or any other blatant and self-assertive courtier of
FAMILIARITY, ETC.
WIFEY : “Do you remember that one'e when
we had a quarrel I said you were as
mean as you could be ?”
HUBBY: “Yes, I do!"
WIFEY : “Oh, Harold, how little did I know
you then!"
the mob, has ever given the people a tenth of the
service that the average honorary gynaecologist has
rendered them without publicity or expectation of
reward. There are not many gynaecologists in the
Commonwealth. If they liked to fccombine for their
personal enrichment they could extort their own
terms. Possibly every one of them could be as
wealthy as Wren. But being more remarkable for
social service than acquisitiveness, they actually com-
pete for the honor of working for the people with-
out recompense. They perform thousands of free
operations; some of them even neglect their private
practices to do this honorary work. To the healing
of suffering womanhood they devote the knowledge of
a lifetime, and in the expending of it they not only
sacrifice their time, which means money, but they
undergo mental worry and nervous strain. Of their
triumphs the public hears nothing, for it is not
their habit to advertise. But when an overtasked
and perhaps overwrought operator makes a slip,
leather-lunged demagogues who never did a tap of
unrequited toil in their lives get to him pitilessly
and invite a thoughtless public to admire the uncom-
mon cleverness and force with which they can put in
the boot.
WAITING.
LITTLE EDITH (after the crash): “O Lord,
if you are as fond of little children as
they make out, now is your chance .”
0,.? 1 ® b : Ho , w , P r °digiously Australian people
P.fnti^ Ve w T as again made manifest at
V uptime. We had Excellencies and vice-regal
hv m tu ga , ore ’ F od«ral and State Ministers
Po, 1 vr dozen > Parliamentarians unlimited,
txaud Mayors, ordinary Mayors, shire presi-
„,eats a ? d councillors by the hundred, and
gold and other old sticks-in-waiting by the
® < '° re ; tbe tllron S think their names
are household words, whereas, as a rule
people seek relief by forgetting 'em, and
-relY. groan at the poisonous expense of
* * * *
“Macquarie Street” on ghouls:—
A Sydney Health officer lately unearthed a Chair
ber of Horrors in a city undertakery, the upshot
being a fine of £3 and Bs. costs for keeping dirty
premises—a by no means sufficient
punishment for the offence. The
conditions found reminded one of
the old “resurrection” times in
Edinburgh, when, owing to a
scarcity of “subjects” for dissec-
tion, ghouls were paid and paid
well to rifle new-made graves.
The scandal was only ended by
several of the parties being
hanged. Her?, in premises in
Crown-street, five filthy and evil-
smelling coffins were discovered.
They had recently been used, and
instead of being at once burnt
were allowed to poison the sur-
rounding air. Near them some
workmen were unconcernedly pur-
suing their daily task. It can be
inferred that these deal coffins had
been used to transfer unclaimed
bodies from various institutions
to certain dissecting rooms. This
is a necessary but ghoulish task
at any time; but. if the thing has
to be done for the teaching of
anatomy, those who con-
duct the business should
have their establishments
visited at least twice
weekly by the municipal
Health authority. There
is nothing to rule out a
further suggestion that the
same coffins are used again
and again, whereas once
the ghastly, task of the
undertaker in removing a
subject to the dissecting room has been accomplished,
the shell should be immediately burnt. Until this
is insisted on fresh offences against public decency
will certainly be unearthed if we make a keen enough
search.
* * • *
“P. Pawnticket”: “Flats,” remarked a
cynical Waverley councillor, “are the only
things that pay at Bondi.” There certainly
are sharps at Bondi who don’t pay. When
I took possession of my furnished cottage
there was a pathetic procession of trades-
men who had expected to find Bingle-Jones
there, and appeared to entertain a suspicion
that I was Bingle-Jones in disguise. They
all had accounts against Bingle-Jones, and
had all been promised a settlement on the
morning I moved in. There ware other
callers who arrived at night and'asked if
Lottie still lived on the premises, and then
came a further batch of tradespeople who
inquired if the Bungle-Smiths had returned
from Melbourne, and if I would undertake
to settle the account rendered. From what
they told me, the life of the Sydney waterside
retailer is a wild gamble, some of their cus-
tomers being careless hedonists who don’t
mind what they pay, and others graceless fly-
by-nights who never pay if they can help it.
The idea of paying excessively for the
people who don’t pay doesn’t appeal to me—
I would hate to be classed as one of the
flats.
(Continued on page 18.)
WASTE PLACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Boroondara and Nunawading are the two Vic-
torian districts which go entirely dry as a result
.of the recent Prohibition referendum.”
They must in early days to come
1 Be temperate as Lara
With whisky, brandy, beer and rum
Out there at Boroondara.
And thirstily the worker will.
His homeward way go plodding
AA'here drips no juice from any still,
And sad teetotal wretches’ fill
The streets of Nunawading.
Oh, Boroondara, place accurst,
Ah, wretched Nunawading,
Where ever broods a hectic thirst,
AVhere none are e’er seen nodding
O’er grateful drink that maketh glad
Smith, Saundy and O’Mara!
The dust will fill the summer day,
Yet never man the dust may lay
At sapless Boroondara.
All men will tell the wretched fate
Of these with touch of horror,
Dread districts stricken with the hate
Of Sodom and Gomorrah.
And wretches who do- something wrong,
Whose moral sense needs prodding,
AVe’ll send with disapproval strong
To Boroondara right along,
Or else to Nunawading.
Dried folks will walk thy highways now,
Oh, stricken Boroondara!
Dry bones will deck thy mummied brow,
A terrible tiara!
A mirage like a sea of beers
Thy hapless people codding
Will simmer in thy sight for years,
And thou shalt sit, too dry for tears,
A desert, Nunawading!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
THE SEANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dead folk came at a rat-tat-tat
And squatted low on the master’s mat—
Homer, Napoleon, Jack and Jill,
Frederick the Great and the Maid of the Mill—
They came to answer the questions set
By one with a part of his skull to let.
Melchizedek dines each night at seven,
The angels have Irish stew in Heaven ;
And the people who live beyond the grave
Use a special soap when they want to shave —
Matters of this kind now employ
John Ruskin’s mind in the fields of joy.
Then Julius Caesar leaves his station
With special Russian misinformation;
And Shakspeare, in ungrammatical speeches,
Explains with unction what Hamlet teaches,
Making it clear that the p ay was written
For serious folk with the g.ost-itch bitten.
And still at the master's rat-tat-tat
The dead folk crowd on the question-mat.
Solemn and dull as fast month’s beer,
They waggle a tongue and bend an ear
Till I shudder and wonder and hold my breath
At the horrible boredom of after-death.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


BLACK »a WHITE
vw 'Jffc • V ;
' • •;
x V * ' . *
■• '. > ‘ ■ : , )
v > *
** >jf x tn
IV^^i
i. ,'-<:
■■i
'■ ' ■'■ "*> &
_ • . ' '
... r . V.: ;. : r. : v M
:
■
§§§Hl§
■
- ' ¥ <V/. *
■ .. ■
■
■
r¥«
SP»
:- \.- ; :
i«i§a«
-** v ' «- y
’ - V f- *.’J
v .a a
i
p |f p ' :
■ .
/ .-i - -
■M
“REAL SCOTCH.
it
WHISKY
GUARANTEED THE PRODUGE OF SCOTLAND.
bbbbhhbmhhhbbbm
. ; t / vj C N • ....
The Quality and Colour Never Vary.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.


The Appeal of Quality
The appeal of Quality was never so forcible as it is to-day—
particularly in Diamond Jewellery. Talented artists created these
designs, and the cleverest Diamond Experts selected the Stones.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments and inspect their
beautiful assortment of Diamond Designs, which is continually
.being added to.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS. Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.)
HATTON GARDEN, LONDON.
WRITE FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO iAusU Ltd.
The World=renowned Jewellery Firm.
E6o6—Fine Quality Diamond Set Platinum and 15-ct
Gold Flexible Bangle, £37/10/-
K992—Fine Diamond and
Platinum Circle Brooch,
£lB/10/-
o.l7B—Choice Design Fine
Diamond and Platinum
Circle Brooch, £l7/10/-
E6oB—VeiV Artistic Design Platinum and 15-ct. Gold
Flexible Bangle, set Fine Quality Diamonds, £35,
Bast Quality Case supplied with each Article
A thick aroma of religion has hung around
the latter days of Aid. McSwiney, of Cork;
still if the apostles and evangelists had stood
on their dignity in the same fashion as he did
there would have been no Christianity, and the
white race might be worshipping Jupiter to
this day. They all seemed to have turns
in gaol, especially Paul and Peter, long
before they had time to write the New Testa-
and if they had hunger-struck and
died (the Roman was an unsympathetic
brute in a toga and would have let them
die) matters would have stopped there.
WHEN THE GANDER FOLLOWS THE
GOOSE.
“Gunner”: The free and easy court-
martial system of justice didn’t always
operate against the Digger. On the Ypres
sector in T 7 a driver was charged Avitli
losing his horses while drunk. He couldn’t
deny either charge, and his “friend” pleaded
guilty for him, at the same time detailing
the circumstances. He had fallen into a
shell-hole or something, and a misguided pal
had given him a dose of rum and beer mixed
to warm him up. Taken in conjunction
with the fact that he was ordinarily a tee-
totaller, it had settled him, with the results
shown. The President conferred with his
colleagues, one of whom was Carse, the Mel-
bourne barrister, and nearly caused the
“friend” to swoon by suggesting that he
might alter his man’s plea. This was done
and the Court promptly brought in a verdict
of “Not guilty!” Ths President was Lt.-
Colonel Rabett, a keen disciplinarian of the
Imperial school, but withal an officer of
kindliness and horse-sense. But it wasn’t
often that an accused struck a bench con-
taining two men like Rabett and Carse.
AN UNOBSTRUCTED PASSAGE.
“What you say, dearest, goes in at one ear
and out at the other.”
“Of course, darling — what's there to stop
it?"
“Stand Easy”: The Diggers went in for
other front-line sports besides the “two-up”
mentioned by “Ex-Dig.” (B. 7/10/’2O). At
Ville-sur-Ancre on the occasion of a hop-
over, and with only a few minutes to zero,
a couple of them had a willing go in the
trench with all equipment up. Also swim-
ming was popular just above the bridge that
connected with, the road leading to Ribe-
mont. But, after all, their favorite pastime
was the ancient one known as “keeping yer
head down.”
* » * *
“ Jeames”: Viscountess Rhondda, who is
petitioning to be allowed to sit and vote in
the House of Lords, is the wife of a Welsh
baronet —Sir Humphrey Mackworth. Her
father was Food Controller during the war,
and she is said to have helped
him greatly in his work. There
have been other peeresses in
their own right who were given
to understand that to ask for
their dues in this respect would
only mean courting a refusal.
Notably Countess Roberts,
daughter of “Bobs,” whose only
son was killed on the Tugela
after winning the V.C.; and Vis-
countess Wolseley, another
field-marshal’s daughter. Of the
handful remaining, four, viz.,
Beaumont, Furnivall, Merries
and Wentworth, are R.C. baron-
esses with no legislative ambi-
tions. But since a woman has
been elected to Congress in
America and Lady Astor sits in
the Commons at Westminster,
female representation in the
Lords can’t be far off. In fact, it is unlikely
that Lady Rhondda would be publicly at-
tempting to get there now had she not been
given the tip that there would be no objec-
tions in the quarter that matters.
* * * *
“Audio”: I ghoulishly attended a guil-
lotining as a wind-up to my last Paris leave.
It was a double event, the parties being a
Roumanian dancer and his beautiful partner.
Their accomplice, a Japanese juggler, had
paid the extreme penalty a week before. The
trio appeared at the Folies Bergeres. After
their act the man used to visit the bar and
promenade, and make friends with an officer
(preferably of staff rank) and present him
to madame. She extracted military infor-
mation, and passed it on to the Jap,‘who in
turn negotiated with German agents. The
execution was timed for dawn, which was
approximately 4 o’clock. We arrived on the
convincing ground at about one, and found
it already crowded, chiefly by women Our
Par 'j7, j- ned a gutter about 50 yards from the
scaffolding. A low murmur of expectancy
was disturbed from time to time by the
laughter of women and the popping of corks
As the hour approached all became silent]
A guard of soldiers mounted the platform
and surrounded the guillotine. That was
ail. We saw nothing else. Executions
are public in France and never fail to keep
an immense crowd up all night. Nearly
everybody has attended one at some time or
other But I’ve yet to meet the person
who has seen a head fall.
* * * *
“Duds” :■ In a Bourke-street shop a ladv
lately rolled a 17-guinea Jersey-cloth
dress into a muff, and got away with it. She
was overtaken in Bourke-street by a tall
stern female, wearing the cold aspect of
authority, who gripped her arm, and said:
Excuse me, but you must come back with
me. I know what
you have in your
muff. I saw you steal
it from our dress and
mantle department.
Better not make a
scene.” The accused
relapsed into tears,
and put up a passion-
ate appeal for mercy.
"If you do not wish
to have a gaping
crowd around you you
will come quietly.
Give me the
The dress . was re-
stored, and hidden
away by the recipient.
"Now,” said the cold
accuser, “try to look
unconcerned if you do
not wish to have the
whole town know.”
She led the woman
hack into the shop.
"Remain here,” she
said, “and remember
you are watched. I
will speak to the man-
ager.” The woman
waited some time, eventually fainted, and
when she recovered told her sobbing story.
Meanwhile the stern dame had disappeared,
probably by the back way into Little Bourke-
street. She was unknown to the firm. But
she got the dress.
* * * *
“Broker”At a recent two-day picture
sale in Sydney buyers were, so alarmed at
the wretched bids made- by dealers and col-
lectors for the works of representative
artists that _ many of them retired in sheer
funk, believing that the bottom had fallen
out of the boom in art. Several fine pic-
tures were sold for little more than the cost
of the frames. But on the second day a new
set of purchasers turned up and matters
more or less righted themselves. I went to
bid for two pictures which I could have had
on the first day for £B. One of them
fetched 20 guineas, and the other not much
less.
* * * *
“Dido” : The Melbourne dailies conspired
to represent the postponed Henley as an
exuberant entertainment, whereas in' point of
fact it was as dull as fried-up cabbage or
any other put-off joy. The disgust of one
superior visitor was profound. She had been
invited aboard on the original day, but
turned up to the rehashed function, and had
spent an hour on the bedraggled houseboat
before she discovered that her hosts were
really the servants of the household; the
family _ itself, succumbing to the superior
attractions of Flemington, had given the
Yarraside festivities over to its underlings,
and had failed to notify this one tremendous
dame. But she has her revenge. She goes
around saying that what puzzled her was the
astonishing improvement in the manners of
her hosts’ friends.
“C.0.M.”: “Pip Tok” (B. 4/11/’2O)
mentions the “Elephant and Castle” and the
“Bull and Mouth” as examples of tell-tale
words. He doesn’t explain what tale they
tell, however; and changes of the sort are
too common to list except in a quarto volume
of small print. But the name of one London
pub does tell a tale. The Goat and Com-
passes still fills the foaming pewter some-
where south of the Thames; and its name is
a corruption of the pious legend “God En-
compasseth Us.” So the tale is plainly told
of a nobler day in which Londoners drank
their beer to the glory of God and the saintly
drunk felt his uncertain footsteps upheld by
a host of ministering angels.
“Wealsman” on a breeze in the pantry;—
A Tasmanian Judge has just awarded butler Aider-
man, formerly of Government House, £2O and costs
against housemaiden O’Brien for something she is
alleged to have said about him in the servants* ’all,
and which led to his discharge from his £5-a-week
job at the Allardyce mansion the day after the
Renown sailed from Hobart. The butler’s case was
that if the O’Brien girl hadn’t induced Lady Allar-
dyce to believe that he was addicted to pulling corks
more frequently than was good for him he would not
have lost his reputation and his job, which losses
he appraised at £3OO. There was also some sugges-
tion that a 40-guinea cheque left by the Prince
had not been satisfactorily divided among the ser-
vants, and evidence was given that Governor Allar-
dyce had requested the butler to hand him the
money presumably for fairer allocation —but that
the butler had stood on his dignity or something
and respectfully but firmly declined. Several wit-
nesses, particularly two housemaidens, backed the
butler’s story and declared him a much-maligned per-
sonage, the soul of integrity and temperate in all
things. The butler’s counsel told the Court that
though the other side had been at great pains to
make it appear that the affair was merely a squabble
among the servants, actually the defendant was
operating under the sheltering cloak of Government
House officialdom; in fact, Miss O’Brien had been
conveyed to the court in the vice-regal motor-car!
That either the Court or the amusedly-interested
public attached much importance to the lawyer’s
remarks at the time is doubtful. But next morning,
when the newspapers announced that the two house-
maids who had given evidence in the discharged
butler’s favor had been summarily sacked by Lady
Allardyce, it became plain that the “mere servants’
squabble” was really just about what the lawyer-
person said it was. There is great chattering among
the social birds by Derwent-side, and unless a new
excitement arrives to divert attention from the un-
fortunate Allardyce-Alderman unpleasantness, good-
ness knows what will happen!
< » * »
( Last week the N. S. Wales Government
“passed It on” to the consumer; that is to
say, it shoved up railway and tramway fares
manfully. The bitter language it has used
about private employers who do this, and
the way its agents used to denounce private
men in the Industrial Court for not paying
the increase out of “large reserves,” is still
fresh in memory; but times have changed.
Only a few months ago, when the Government
(all except Estell, who doesn’t count) was a
big child fresh to office, and like Kipling’s
bandar-log “sat in a branchy row chatting
of wonderful things we know,” or words to
that effect, the most self-confident of the
crowd denounced the Railway Commissioners
for putting up charges when wages rose.
“Any blithering idiot,” said this Chesterfield,
could meet a rise that way. Apparently the
Chesterfield is the same kind of blitherer,
for, grown old and battered after six months
of office, he goes the old road.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The N. S.
Wales Institution for the Deaf and Dumb
and the Blind has entered upon its “Golden
Jubilee” year. It started in a small two-
storeyed house in Castlereagh-street, near
Liverpool-street, beginning its job on October
1, 1861, with seven deaf-and-dumb pupils.
In December, 1862, the pupils, who had
rapidly increased in numbers, were removed
to 461 Pitt-street —one of several fine old
three-storeyed houses that had been occupied
for many years by commercial magnates and
the higher flight of medical men. The
Horderns’ recent purchase, the Metropolitan
Hotel, adjoining the emporium, about covers
the site. But there was little room there
for recreation, .so in 1868 the Board rented
Ormonde House, at Paddington, a place
built by Robert Cooper, the distiller, in
1826, and called by him Juniper Hall. That
house, still standing, was occupied until
1872, when the first portion of the present
home at Darlington was completed.
THE ETERNAL FEMININE.
THE BOY: “So now you've let the secret out,
and you promised never to tell anyone."
THE GIRL: “No, I didn’t, dear; I only said
I’d keep it a secret."
EYE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Canon Barnes, of London, has created a sensa-
tion throughout Christendom by publicly abandon-
ing the doctrine of the Fall. Adam, Eve, the apple,
the serpent—fill must go.”
Tis vain to tell us Eve was not;
She lived, and she’s immortal.
She stood unclothed within a grot,.
Her clean, young limbs with sunlight shot
Seen through the pearly portal
Of Paradise, when came the world
1* rom its dead dreams in black ooze curled,
A glow the dark abyss above,
And life was here and sudden love.
Behold her in the tender green
Of musky dells where singing
The sweet, cool, running water’s seen,
And all the nectared blooms between
The blue-gold birds are clinging.
She runs among the pointed flames
Of gladiolas, and she shames
The white dove cooing in its nest
With scented softness of her breast.
We know the wild and wayward girl
Who every charm discloses,
Where great, pale, languorous blooms unfurl;
Her lips in their sweet richness curl
Like inmost leaves of roses,
And wonder, wonder she beholds
In air and water, in the folds
Of pansies shy that scarce believe
The gracious liveliness of Eve.
She is the queen of loving things,
She’s beauty’s dear beginning;
All fancy to her body clings,
And rapture like a chaplet rings
Her temples. She is sinning
In all its glory, sweet as fruit,
And clean as crystal water, mute
As wild blue lilies whose caress '
Strews all the world with joyousness.
Though science with its pickaxe seek
In vain for her fair wonder,
Though ancient creeds fall pale and weak,
And mincing churchmen come to speak
Of Eden as a blunder,
Fail every fond belief they hold,
She lives, the mother in the world,
Sweet sinner finding earth so cold,
Who left us joyance manifold.
She lost us innocence, they say,
Through her are angels missing;
But where two wanton lovers play
And where, half-hidden from the day,
Are two fond sinners kissing,
Where on the flowered grass we sit,
My love and I, and bronze bees flit
Across the Spring day, wafting spice,
She built another Paradise.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


THE SIGN OF EXCELLENCE.
-TTT 1 1 '' V ~T — —; a
j , :
' ' — BSa^
IS
eiJlf/ral
■
k
114
mm
in
Si®#®!?
n ii
4
.A
• ' '
' ~g . v '
V',®> - *3
;; S*l
: *
'•»/•■ V
i iin —j:
ializedl stock foods
m
p
?&
VV\
»
Cl?!
s ti^>
|§§§fSttgl» ,
. "
l : «se
•mm
:
.—vvia'
——sr
r
'• ■?';;y ■/" *-~s§gr
HU
yi
V.—
u
o
If V
1 /
M
v - * k : '%5
m /h
.
yt\ (1
MEGGITT
CAuFvropO
r+H
msmm
or o.
# Hicaoits
*- I' -JI '■ ■ -V).- ”
■
m
SSift
h- iryf :.’
fffissa
SHi
MEGCITT LTD
PABRAMATI^
r?
BRAN OR NO BRAN,
© Specialised Stock Foods will help you increase your output.
The local bran shortage is not affecting stockowners who avail themselves of
the ready-mixed ration.
Intelligent feeding is reflected in healthy and profitable stock.
Without the worry and trouble of securing the necessary ingredients, ©
Specialised Stock Foods supply a scientifically-balanced ration in correct proportion.
They are the ideal food for the particular need of all classes of stock.
Cut the guesswork out of feeding—use © Specialised Stock Foods for all classes
of stock.
Write for Booklet on Scientific Feeding to © Stock Foods Department A.
t> s Evton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666
BomJke St* Melbourne* Messrs Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., King
St Perth* Messrs F W. Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of
l!z? Ltd!, Sussex Chambers, Panamt Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Ltd., Featherston Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
oil •U.tD'BW
IYiwOBHSIM
Site boy oi\the bag n
ouarantees quality
0
HEAD OFFICE £6 KING ST iTYJJSTEY(V^akstParramatta)
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Meal, Cake and Specialised Stock Foods.
on JLLIOCQW
m
TOWIIO 0335N(1
°/Aeboy on the boa
guarantees quality


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-139 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel
TARIFF;
15/- per Day
8/6 Bed & Breakfast
C.R.KePP 45 Swanston 5K
Ppopi*iefor» Htfboupne /
King George IV
THE TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
Mulga : If “Winkers” resides near
swamp or marshy country, let him turn his prads
suffering from greasy heels into it. I guarantee they
will be A 1 in three weeks. In the southern part of
Maoriland the flax swamps supply an infallible
remedy for horses thus afflicted.
* * *
Sassafras”: I can’t agree with “Billy
T.” (B. 30/9/’2O) that the drover hasn’t found a
decent breed of dog to assist him overland with a
mob on the hoof, but I
won’t argue about the
shepherd’s choice. I sup-
pose “Billy T.” is of the
city-abattoir type of drover,
and pins his faith to a
canine of pedigree ; but the
man who lifts a big mob
from away back nearly
always breeds his own, and
it is not “flash.” The
secret of his success is in
the breaking-in. A highly-
bred dog is soon tired on
the road, becomes footsore,
develops blight, and oft-
times has to be picked up
and carried on the saddle.
The lsreaking-in of a dog
is an art, and hardly two
drovers have the same
method. A dog that has
had only the one master
may be worth to him more
than money can buy. Two
good dogs to a drover are
worth more than five
horsemen. A few years
ago I saw a man, for a
wager, undertake, with
horse, whip and two dogs,
to draft a bullock from a
mob in an 1800-acre pad-
dock and pass him through
a slip-panel inside 20 min-
utes. The dogs did the
work, one on each side;
the drover rode behind.
Not a word was spoken; all was done by whistle,
and inside the time.
“Wobbegong”: Yes, properly-built mud
houses, will last all right. Fifty years ago certain
lands near Broadmeadow station (Newcastle) were
known as the commonage—so christened by new-
chums from England. Immediately a newchum
arrived to begin work in the mines he selected a
piece of this commonage. A visit was made to
the bush a few hundred yards away, and posts,
rails and palings split. The following pay-Saturday
(miners’ holiday) all hands turned up and the
allotment was fenced. Next pay-Saturday the house
was started. Soil was dug from the back yard,
puddled and pressed in a rectangular mould 12in.
x 9in. x Bin., and then placed in the sun to dry.
The following pay-Saturday the walls were completed,
soft mud being used for mortar. A coat of tar was
applied, and it was ready for the roof. Dozens of
these houses were thus constructed, and many of
them are still in existence and as good as new.
“German brick” houses they were called locally.
We old hands who have lived in them for half a
century think that with a coat of tar yearly they’ll
see the Millennium.
* * *■ »
Kitty Kitty” : To cure a prad of rearing
I hit him between the ears with a piece of wet
blanket, and find it just as effective as, and less
dangerous than, breaking a bottle of water over his
head.
HE WANTED TO FOLLOW THE TRADE.
SCHOOLTEACHER (to class ): “Now stand up all those children who wish to go to
Henven. All except you, Ikey Cohen! Why don't you want to go to Heaven
lkey?"
IKEY: “ Because father says pizness is going to the Devil!"
Yarrutn”: While riding one very hot day
in the back country with the late “Jimmie Panni-
kin,” he complained of a dreadful headache. I sug-
gested dipping it in a handy dam ; but he reckoned
he’d fix it up when we got into the bush. There he
dismounted, took a piece of charcoal from a charred
stump, chewed and swallowed it, and was right as
a bird in no time. The charcoal, the good Austra-
lian explained, absorbed the gases in the stomach.
I ve taken it scbrdte of times with gratifying
results.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: When I was a small boy
snake-hunting in what was then the Ballarat new
cemetery was the favorite diversion of rapscallions
playing the wag from Sabbath-school. We were
lured into the enterprise by a liberal offer of a
shilling a head for all the reptiles destroyed. Curi-
ously enough, this offer did not increase the trustees’
trade in small graves. How we escaped being bitten
is still a mystery to me. One hot Sunday our dog,
an expert terrier, having located the prey, we turned
up a gutter of stripped bark, and found it swarming
with small black snakes, which struck right and
left with the viciousness of grown and competent
vipers. Suddenly one lad uttered a yell of warning.
The mother snake had put in a valiant appearance
in defence of her brood, and all the young ones slid
towards her, apparently disappearing into her in-
terior. We killed the mother snake, and then dis-
covered that the young ones had lined up along the
length of her body on each side of her, being hidden
to the casual eye, so close did they lie. The action
was very suggestive of the flight of chickens to the
maternal wing when a hawk chips in, and probably
explains the bush superstition that snakes swallow
their young when danger threatens.
* * * *
“Moonie”: “Y.D.1.” asks (B. 16/9/’2O) if
anyone ever saw a dingo “logged.” Bill Doolan,
trapper on Coomrith (S.Q.), has two pups, about
nine months old, which he ran down on horseback,
and eventually caught alive in the same log, probably
where they were whelped. Bill keeps these dogs,
the real pure merino, chained securely in the scrub.
They are watered and fed regularly, and as decoys
are the very latest. Traps are kept set in a ring
round each pup, and the bag in a week was five
dogs. Since starting, a matter of six weeks, Bill
has caught 35 dingoes, and any doubting Thomas can
refer to the owner, who paid £2 per head for them.
* * * *
“Delhi”: The fact that a man can sit a
buck is looked upon by many as a sure proof that
he is a good horseman. But it isn’t always the
case. The stockmen who ride on steep hillsides, and
wheel cattle on banks and rocky slopes and keep
their horses on. their feet, are the real horsemen.
Bill Dunn, who was a crack buckjump-rider, one
time accepted my offer of a quid to help me with
some cattle for a distance of five miles. A bit of
quick wheeling on some slippery ground resulted
in Dunn coming off with a broken collar-bone and
a solid determination never to take a job droving
while there were horses to break in.
* * * *
“Bougain”: You can’t stop a bushman
when he wants to dance. The concertina-man didn’t
turn up, and we sat about talking of crops and
cows. The situation seemed hopeless til] Clancy
strolled out and returned with a gum-leai. Clancy
had the wind, gum-leaves were plentiful, and we
kept going till milking-time.
Ida O. : “0.5.,” writing about the best
roughriders in Australia, mentions Major Blakeley’s
horse throwing Snowy Baldwin to the four winds.
I watched that horse mastered and ridden to a
standstill by one who hasn’t been mentioned so far
—a half-caste named Harry Cahill. The Major's
stallion was responsible for the downfall of a number
of good riders, and Cahill, then an unknown (at
least in that district), was the first to sit him. I
saw Snowy Baldwin do his bareback act on a locally-
famous creamy pony owned by the proprietor of the
Royal Mail Hotel, Mooretown (Q.) ; but, honestly,
Lord Brassey could have ridden it that night. "Co-
ringa” (B. 23/9/’2O) is right when he says Baldwin
had a lot to learn. But he was a bonzer bluff. As
for the best riders, I can name four, but can’t get
the selection down to one.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The little penguin, which is
pretty common about the Speck and on the southern
coast of Australia, is mild-looking, but can be a bit
of a bully at times. Down on the sandspits which
separate Blackman’s Bay from Marion Bay (Tas.)
A WORD FOR THE DEFENCE.
MRS. JABBERCHATTER : “You're an old
humbug! That parrot you sold me two
years ago, and which you said was such
a splendid talker, has never uttered a
single syllable, and I don't mind telling
you"-
THE BIRD DEALER : “ 'Old 'ard a bit, mum.
P'raps you never give the pore bird a
chance!"
the penguins have discovered that a rabbit-burrow
makes a first-rate nesting-place, and show little com-
punction about chasing the rabbits out when they
want to set up housekeeping.
(Continued on page 22.)
ON LACHLAN FIELDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On roads by the wheels of commerce bitten,
On tracks that straggle to Ood-knows-where,
O’er pathless plains by a fierce sun smitten,
By foothills barren and ranges bare,
Men stride afield when the fates deride them,
Unseen by the souls that pass them by;
The tall trees shelter, the dense scrubs hide them;
At night their roof is the open sky.
My feet are set on the slopes that lead me
To roam once more on the Lachlan-side.
The green boughs beckon, the wild birds speed me,
The day is warm and the world seems wide.
Below me, far as the sight can travel,
Beyond a hedge with its tops a-sway,
My keen eyes rest on the heaps of gravel,
The mounds of mullock and dumps of clay.
Old workings sprawl in the noontide, glaring
Like tombstones under a cloudless sky.
Long years, and the march of time unsparing,
Loud storms that shatter and thunder by,
Grey rains that sodden and droughts that perish—
All have ravaged the worked-out lead;
But while I live I will always cherish
The days of gold and the miner’s creed.
Where wealth had slept in the wash long ages,
Where gold was torn from the virgin earth
By eager striplings and toil-worn sages,
When home was yet in the throes of birth,
The bush creeps in on the pick-scarred clearing,
While Nature heals with her green festoons
The wounds of earth with a touch endearing,
And thrills the soul with her elfin runes.
JUST THE DIFFERENCE.
Sam): “Did you ever know, 'Enry, that the
bloke wot wrote ‘’Ome, Sweet ’Ome ’
never ’ad one?”
’ENRY : “An’ there’s thousands in the same
place ter day, only they don’t make a
bloomin’ song about it.”
The sheep may graze on their tracts allotted,
The cattle drowse in the fragrant shade—
To me, the slopes in the west are dotted
With brown men wielding the pick and spade.
I hear the rocking of cradles clearly,
The white quartz dollied, the windlass-bole
Winding aloft the wash, won dearly
Dark in the depths of each golden hole.
Ah! but the dull grey clouds drift over!
Veiled the while is the sun’s flushed face;
Below me the dumps are flecked with plover,
And sadness steals from its hiding-place.
Solemn, beneath harsh weather wearing,
Each post is a leaning sentinel;
I see the ruins from time unsparing,
And thus I lapse from a magic spell.
Stark, and stripped of its garments wholly,
Once the crown of a gleaming hill;
Shorn of its pride and cringing lowly,
Glooms there the frame of a shattered mill.
Her steel shoes rust in the boxes broken,
Her cam-shaft sags and the plates lie bare;
Her tailings dump is a dismal token
Of woe and sorrow and mute despair.
An old mine dreams with its head-gear standing,
A rope hangs loose from a rusted wheel;
A skip tilts over the ruined landing—
But what may the dripping depths conceal ?
Where are the men who found the treasure
Splashed on the face of a jasper reef?
Where are the men who drank full measure
Of joy that deadens the ache of grief?
Vain to ask in an age which knows not
Brave romance of a worked-out field—
Idle they deem the hand that sows not
Grain to gladden a harvest yield.
Southward the distant slopes are blazing,
Dancing under the waves of heat;
Across the flats where the sheep are grazing
Fields are yellow with rustling wheat.
I turn aside from the workings haunted,
As diggers turned, when the gold was won,
To toil on the timbered slopes undaunted, ’ •
To break new ground in the blinding sun.
They drove a path for their sons to follow,
They cleaied broad fields when the years were
lean,
Nor ceased till the soil of hill and hollow
Was flushed at last with a verdant green.
And so I stride in the golden summer,
Through lanes, walled in by the crops that stand
Nodding their heads to each new-comer
Drifting into the harvest-land.
Dead are the fields of wealth amazing,
Where gold was won when the world was wide
My feet are set where the sheep are grazing,
And wheat matures on the Lachlan-side.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


m
SMS* t ;
The igocpefo “Little Wonder” Sawing Set,
illustrated above, is the solution to the wood-cutting problem. Saves time,
hard work and money. The Saw Bench is constructed throughout of
substantial angle iron, and is supplied complete with 20in. Circulai Saw.
The woCp€?i> “Little Wonder” Chaffcutter
is the ideal outfit for farm use. Strong, compact, economical. Includes
a 2-knife, Bin. Rising Mouth Chaffcutter, complete with Driving Pulley and
Belting.
If you have wood to saw, chaff to cut, water to pump, sheep to
shear, or any work requiring power, write us to-day. We maue
various-size plants, and will send you full particulars of an outfit to
suit your requirements. Both the price and the outfit will suit you.
These Little Wonder Outfits
Need No Introduction!
THEY ARE HOUSEHOLD WORDS IN EVERY FARMING DISTRICT
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA TO-DAY.
The €ccpe& “Little Wonder” Engine
is admittedly the world’s most popular 2-h.p. engine.
Its high quality of construction and wonderful
records for service have won for it a reputation
and distribution that stand alone. Little Wonder
Engines are in use throughout Australia, driving
Pumping Plants, Shearing Machines, Chaffcutters,
Wood Saws, Separators and various machinery.
*
. :
&Li
m
Cooper Engineering; Co. Ltd.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clark & Fauset, Ltd.,
-i ■
Brisbane; N. Z. Loan & M. A. Co., Ltd., Hughenden, Townsville & Rockhampton;
Aust. Imp. & H. F. Co., Adelaide; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Perth.
A Lifetime of Musical Enjoyment.
m
m
m
I
%
i
/
|.' 'l'tiKH
When you buy a BEHNING PLAYER
PIANO you get more than a musical
instrument, you really endow your
home with a perpetual, inexhaustible
fund of finest entertainment.
The BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
makes even the novice able to play
difficult or simple pieces with ease
and understanding. It gives pleasure
and inspiration, not only to his
listeners, but to himself as he plays.
You can buy a “BEHNING” on terms to suit you. A
payment puts the instrument in your home at once,
you pay the balance over a period of years,
present piano can be taken in exchange.
small
, and
Your
A visit to our Showrooms will
not commit you to the slightest
degree of purchasing, but we
will appreciate the opportunity
of letting you test this magni-
ficent instrument.
sH
%
/
<*&
AT
BRISBflnt.ntWCflJTLt.
C'JMORt,
■ ROCKHAMPTON.^*
Send for Catalogue
and
Price List To-day.


permanent
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
The modern man of affairs has learned
that it is unwise to appoint an individual
to act as his trustee. Such mischances
as the death, disappearance, or lack of
knowledge of that individual may mean
great trouble and loss to the beneficiaries.
It was to meet the demand for a PER-
MANENT trustee that the Company was
formed. It is always to be found at the
same address; it cannot disappear or die.
It possesses all that legal and financial
knowledge so necessary to safeguard
the interests of those for whom it acts.
The Permanent Trustee Company will
bring to the administration of your affairs
the experience gained in the continual
execution of trusts such as yours since
its incorporation in 1888. The advan-
tages of appointing it to control your
affairs are well worthy of your considera-
tion.
25
J.
O’C
w t> > A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD Manner
W. Barnes, Assistant Manager. ’ - a P ager '
Write for Literature.
ONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“Centurion”: What is the derivation of
“gohanna” ? I always thought it was a fairly modem
word, or, at the oldest, mid-Australian; but somebody
else got in first. I was hunting up some ancient horse
history the other day when 1 came across the case
of Sharper, an English thoroughbred, who was
matched at St. Petersburg in 1825 to run 50 English
miles against two Cossack horses. The Old Con-
temptible won easily, and his pedigree is given as
by Gohanna out of Young Amazon.
* * * *
“Jarge”: Perhaps I can enlighten “Hanni-
bal” (B. 21/10/’2O) re lightning-struck trees. A
thunderstorm is merely the equalising of the many
differences of electrical pressure caused by excessive
evaporation on hot days, etc. As the overcharged
thunderclouds pass by they induce in the earth
surface equal disturbances of pressure, and they
attract these induced charges to points as near them-
selves as possible, such points as trees and steeples
being very suitable. If the pressure be sufficiently
great, it ruptures the resistance of the intervening
air, and causes a giant spark from the cloud to the
steeple, which is th’en reported missing. If, how-
ever, the steeple is fitted with points metallically
connected to the earth, the pressure leaks rapidly
away into the air before becoming great enough to
burst. Thus, trees with heavy foliage dissipate the
pressure' very rapidly through the leaf points and
edges, and are comparatively safe, whereas a shorter
dead tree may be struck again and again.
THE ONLY PLACE.
"Nice, ain’t it? Not a dry spot to strike a
light.”
“If you could get to my throat you’d be all
right.”
N.L.R. ’: “Cooringa” has evidently had
a one-sided experience of the wire cage for catching
bunny. I have found it both effective and humane,
provided one makes it a fair size, sets it at dusk, and
collects in the morning. “Some bunnies were caught
at times’ is a feeble statement of its value: I have
wiped out substantial lots with it —and quickly, too.
The only serious drawback is that it involves a lot
of work. But, for that matter, so does the iron trap.
“Bullfrog”: Don’t talk to me about the
honesty of the bush! It is as full of thieves as the
city. Fed up with town-life I took up a selection.
To start the cooking I carted out a billycan of
A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME.
HER (dreamy flapper) : “Did you ever think of reincarnation token so close to death in
those dreadful trenches?”
HIM ( Digger ): “ Think about it! Why, we useter EAT it ev'ry day o' the week! Only
we called it ‘ stoo '.”
dripping, and fiung it from a branch of the tree
against which I’d set up the tent. I was out clear-
ing all day, and returning at 4 o’clock started in
to get tucker ready. More than half the dripping
was gone. From the look of what was left I guessed
someone hail been gouging the stuff out with a
spade. As I Mood there cursing I heard something
moving above me, and looking up saw two jacks.
Their appearance explained where the dripping had
gone, and to judge by the row they made they saw
some joke that I missed. I’ve kept the lid on the
billy since then. Two butcher-birds had raided my
tent and carried off the best part of 21b. of raw steak
-which I’d left hanging from the ridge-pole. After
discovering my loss I sat back in the tent to see
whether the thief would come for the rest. He
came all right, both of him. I keep the tent-flap
fastened now. Seventeen different kinds of ants share
the land with me, and they all came after my sugar.
Before I got wise to it I’d lost nearly half a hun-
dredweight. I keep it in an air-tight tin now. It’s
the same with everything. Snakes steal my chickens ;
iguanas sneak my eggs; dingoes take my young
porkers; cockatoos and parrots have eaten all my
young corn ; the ’roos have eaten my little lucerne
patch; and last week rats chewed into the Hour-box.
God knows what friends I’ve got, though before I
came I was told the “land” was full of ’em.
“Zanthus”: A fair droving-trip for these
degenerate days ended when 1000 Wave Hill bullocks
were trucked at Marree, on the Oodnadatta line. This
yeai Wave Hill, a Vestey-owned station on the upper
waters of the Victoria River, not far on the Terri-
tory side of the W.A. border, sent some of its cattle
to the Wyndham meatworks; but the bulk, 6000 or
(000, travelled across the Territory into Western
Queensland. There most, of them were topped
up on leased country on the Diamantina for their
finish at Queensland meatworks. A thousand others
were sent down the old Cooper’s Creek track and*
across to Marree for the southern markets. When they
struck the railway they had walked about 2000
miles.
*' * ‘ * *
“Wart”: Since being totally protected
the platypus has grown comparatively plentiful in
the Speck. On a quiet afternoon, fishing in some of
the streams, one may see as many as half a dozen.
Some people are now trying to make the platypus
equally guilty with the cormorant in destroying
trout. They say that he shovels up the eggs from
the gravel of the spawning beds in preference .to any
other food. That may be right, but the trout
increased to their present numbers when the platy-
pus was a great deal more plentiful than he is ever
likely to be again; so I suspect that ’pus’s present
price is the main factor in the argument.
“Moonie”: Can any Abo.-scribe look me
in the eye and tell me that he has seen a grey mare
with a grey foal ? And while he’s about it he might
explain why all grey horses are born black.
Drover”: Saw a strange sight at one
of the crossings of the Pioneer River, near Mackay
(Q-)> a while ago. A couple of dingoes were baiting
a your.g heifer and her calf in the r.early-dry bed of
the river. While one.ran round her the other tried to
get in between her and the calf. But the latter
stuck close to mother. I was watching for a chance
to get a shot with the rifle, when u huge ’gator
climbed from a near-by pool and seized the calf by
the nose. I let fly and got the ’gator under the eye
and clipped the calf's ear in doing it. I also secured
both dingoes. That “bag” was something to brag
about two dingoes and a ’gator with four shots
from a repeater.
“Bill Bowyang”: I’ll admit that sharks,
clams and octopi rarely trouble divers in Northern
pearling waters, but there are other things. A Jap
near the Aru Islands was scouring the
ocean floor in 20 fathoms of water when
his life-line was suddenly wrenched from
the hands of the tender above. A few
seconds later the air-pipe also parted
under the strain, and Nippon was a doomed
man. The disaster was due to the antics
of a large diamond fish. These fish,
although not vicious, have a playful habit
of using the hook-like appliances at the
end of their fins to grapple with any
object seen in the water. A pearler
assured me that one of them fastened
on to a small dinghy riding astern of the
lugger and dragged it beneath the water.
Trepang divers, who do not wear the
rubber suit, fear the huge Barrier Reef
cod more than anything else. One of
the brutes, caught near Mackay (N.Q.),
measured 6ft. 2in. in length, with a girth
of 4ft. Bin. Its weight was about
4icwt. And Mr. Lee, the well-known
crocodile trapper, caught one at Esk Bank,
near Proserpine, which measured 7ft. tin.
in length and 6ft. in girth, and weighed
over scwt. Many an abo, trepang diver
has lost an arm or leg in an argument
with one of these giant cod. Binghi states
“Exul” : In an interesting par (B.
30/9/’2O) “FY7” speaks confidently of the law of
teleg-ony, or the tendency of a pure-bred female that
has formed a fertile cross with a male of another
breed, to produce subsequently, when mated with a
pure-bred male of her own breed, offspring exhibit-
ing characteristics of the former male. The truth
nf .l. S ?^ en *’° debate. The classical case
- 01 ton s Arab mare that was crossed by
a quagga and had a striped foal, and afterwards bore
another striped foal to an Arab stallion, is merely
a case of reversion. The stripes were no more than
are occasionally seen on foals whose ancestors for
many generations back have had no dealings with
their striped cousins. Does “FY7” know of any
cases of telegony where the purity of the breed of
tile lady and her second husband for a long way
back is beyond dispute? All cases that 1 can find
when it lias been beyond dispute have not exhibited
this tendency. The law of reversion is very strong,
as is shown by Darwin’s crossing a mongrel barb-
spot with a mongrel barb-fantail pigeon and pro-
ducing a bird absolutely identical with the father
of all pigeons, the original rock-pigeon of India.
Die reversion is occasionally seen when the foreign
breed had formed a cross a* far back as 12 genera-
tions, when the proportion of blood from that
ancestor would be only one in 2048; and can “FY7,”
if he can show any indubitable ease 3, offer any
explanation of the phenomenon, which is at present
unintelligible to me? If the law can be proved
to be only a superstition or a wrong interp'retation
of events, many cases of useless destruction of valu-
able animals will be prevented.
* * » »
iropic Bird”: The magpie lark (peewee)
must be a wonderful mason to make its nest so
proof against the effects of wind and rain. Built
of mud from the bank of any pond or roadside
waterliole, one would expect it to soften and break
away under the first heavy rain; but it shows
never a scar. In a tree on the grounds here (Bris-
bane) there are nests constructed four years ago
and still as complete us the day they were finished,
and this in spite of torrential rains. Do they mix
any substance with the mud to act as a cement,
and is any glazing process performed to keep water
from soaking in and softening the mud?
Dr. J. M. Creed discusses an arrival:—
On February 25, 1836, in Sydney, a grant of
2000 acres was made to Dr. Bell Carlyle on the
payment of a quit rent of £2. He called this place
Satur. An adjoining grant of 913 acres was pur-
chased by him on March 29. 1836. This he called
Invcrmein. He then left Sydney for what is now
Scone, taking several servants with him, among
them a maid called Susan, who subsequently married
Charles Sutton, a tailor. Both spent the rest of
their lives in that district, he following his trade,
she acting as a midwife. She told me that when
leaving Sydney Dr. Carlyle put in her care a leaf
of prickly-pear which he had brought from India,
with a view of using it for fences when it had
multiplied sufficiently. He said to her: “Now, Susan,
if the bushrangers stop us, give them your money
and I will repay you, but on no account lose the
plant.” They reached Satur without delay, the
cactus was carefully planted and subsequently so
guarded that it rapidly increased, and but for the
efforts of the later landowners would have rendered
the properties useless for stock. About 1840 Pat-
rick Leslie passed through Scone on his way to
Southern Queensland, and, thinking the plant would
be useful for hedges to act as fences, said he would
like a cutting. This was obtained for him by a
relation, Mr. Francis Isaac, then and subsequently
dwelling in Scone, who asked Dr. Carlvle for it.
Mr. Leslie carefully packed it in one of his drays,
and so conveyed the pest to the Northern State. Mr.
Isaac gave me the information many years after-
wards.
* * * *
“Wessel”: Australia’s champion echo,
according to P. P. King, hangs out near Lacrosse
Island, on the N.-VV. coast. In his account of the ex-
ploration of those parts in the cutter Mermaid in
1819, King says that when the cook was chopping
wood on beard, eight miles off shore, the sound of
every blow was echoed all around the bight in which
they lay.
A BAD BUSINESS.
THE MANAGER: “ ’Struth! And he pro-
mised to pay on alighting."
REVOLT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am sick of the moon in the arms of the trees,
And the whispering voice of the beautiful breeze,
And the ladies with dimples in chins or in knees —
I frankly detest the whole lot;
While 1 don’t give a curse for the almighty sea,'
And I shudder to hear the sweet song of a bee,
And the stars needn’t wink any longer at me,
And I don’t care if robins are shot!
The lain may beat down, or the'big clouds may sail,
And the lilies may bloom very lovely and pale,
And the mist of the dawn may be soft as a veil
And splendid with trimmings of red ;
The beautiful world may be peopled with dreams,
And the whole human race may be full of brave
schemes
Providing the subjects for epics in reams,
But I am intrigued by my bed !
Why the dickens should I sit and write like a fool
When the cheeks of the pillows are gracious and cool,
And a great deal more real than the calm mountain
pool,
And other vague natural bores;
I have cash enough left for some bread and some beer,
Although both of these products at present are dear.
So it isn t the song of the magpie I hear
But a magical chorus of snores !
Bread and beer with between whiles a helping of bed
Are the things upon which happy humans are fed,
So I don t see why I should annoy my poor head
With blitherings dainty or grim ;
I shall either get drunk or a brain full of sleep,
And I count high ambition and wealth mighty cheap—
There are times when a bloke’s airy fancy must leap
To the things really sweetest to him.
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.
that sharks will circle around their prey several
times before attacking, and thus offer a chance of
escape, but that the cod, hiding in a rocky cavern,
makes one dash at a naked diver and never misses.


■lllflillf
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality—a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
CIGARETTES
N 9333 20“|/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
1
%
vP
>r
v
<3-
4-
o
o
LARGE SIZE
< Wei mmm


TKc
Purest
Spirit
irithe
World.
r;v
Fife's schna?^
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
■ £
I r* 1
; <s£iaE
L 353
L
coids]
COUCHS
LUNG
TROUBLES
choup
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
la
0
m
13
Drama and Play
The repertory theatre, which is coming
to life again in Sydney with Gregan
McMahon at the helm, has an opportunity
and is beset with any number of dangers.
“Literary” drama is easy to talk about and
rather difficult to define, for all drama is
in a sense literary; and a good deal that
is called “literary” and is dramatic in shape
is not drama at all. The trouble about most
of the repertory movements appears to be
that their promoters have no very definite
idea where they are moving to. To divide
plays into two classes and label them “liter-
ary” and “commercial” is futile; for the
most profitable dramas may be literary in a
much truer sense than those which fail.
There is a possible confusion of idea in
the. very use of the word “drama”—a word
which links the stage with the elaborate
Greek horrors of classic times. A “drama”
meant in the first place a deed ; and around
some awful and blood-curdling happening the
Greek poet contrived to make his audience
gasp. Comedy was at the same period simply
a mockery of tragedy, a satire, often of
a rather gross sort, on the heavy, murderous
performance which held first place in popu-
larity. Drama of the Greek sort was tried
in England from the days of Henry VIII.
on and consistently failed; then the English
“play,” which was at' first quite distinct
from “drama,” came along and succeeded.
The two words may possibly furnish the
key to the whole modern position, and a
consideration of them may even prove the
salvation of the repertory movement. The
English play is now usually called the
“romantic drama,” while the other sort is
labelled the “classical drama”; but “play”
is in itself a sufficient guide to the nature
of the thing which the English mind accepts
and the English language glorifies. The
Greek stage was at first a religious affair,
and always kept something of mystery and
heavy solemnity; the English stage never
did anything worth while until it started
out frankly to entertain. If entertainment
is the primary object the road of the reper-
tory movement ought to be easy; for the
chief fault of the regular stage in Austra-
lian cities is that it has grown too dull
for the better minds of the community. But,
using the phrases in their original sense,
the question to be asked is whether the in-
telligent portion of the ■ public wants the
literary play or the literary drama. Some
very dreadful things have of recent years
been staged in the name of literary art.
Take, for instance, an abomination like
Ibsen’s “Ghosts.” To ask an audience of
decent people to sit and watch the unfold-
ing of horrors of the kind this alleged master-
piece contains is an insult to both their
intelligence and their moral sense; and the
same is true of many other works of a simi-
lar nature. Then there is the other sort
of drama in which people sit or stand round
and talk about actions which are supposed
to happen off the stage. Smart phrase fol-
lows painfully clever remark for ten minutes
on end, and then somebody preaches a ser-
mon. After that somebody preaches another
sermon; then everybody preaches a sermon;
then somebody comes in and remarks that
something has happened. It is often so great
a relief'to know that anything can happen
anywhere that the audience wakes up out
of a trance and applauds the alleged deed.
The whole thing may be clever in detail,
but it is not play; while a real play may
seem very dull in detail, yet as a whole
prove a delightful entertainment.
It may, of course, be argued that the great
Elizabethan tragedies were meant to be
instructive only, that they were dramas with
a purpose and aimed at leading the world
into better ways. This is sheer nonsense.
The rival attraction to the theatre in Shaks-
peare’s day was bear-baiting; the audience
loved to see blood flow. When a stage was
well filled with bleeding and broken heroes
the pit roared its applause; all it asked was
that they should be killed in a fashion that
was convincing enough to be entertaining.
But it is notable that since the days when
murder went out of fashion in British streets
no audience has. ever been willing to watch
with any enthusiasm a pure English tragedy
unless it were one of those hallowed and
endorsed by the fame of Shakspeare him-
self. Tragedy has ceased to entertain ; and
the person who thinks it can be revived by
substituting venereal disease for plain
slaughter is doomed to be disappointed.
But the repertory movement, if it is in
earnest and sets out to entertain the public,
has the ball at its feet. Its first business is
to provide better plays and better acting;
and to do that in any Australian city should
be easy.
P. Q. J.
The Limerick
I never troubled to wonder why simple
rhymes, such as “P.Q.J.” quotes (B.
21/10/’2O), got to be known as Limericks.
But I well remember the time when rhymes
of the same length and order of metre, strik-
ingly ingenious in their obscenity, used to
pass from lip to lip among assemblies of
men. They were at their heyday about 50
years ago. As a rhymester myself, I was not
less struck by the cleverness of the smartest
of these “smutty” verses than by the fact that
their authors had condescended to compose
them. But I found one literary excuse for
the obscenities which were not yet known
as Limericks. They were, in most cases,
pungently humorous parodies on puerilities.
Bemember the illustrated books for children,
from the utter foolishness of which our
infant minds revolted? Here is one that
survives—a silly picture of a fat head with
a huge beard attached, and some crude draw-
ings of birds and bird-nests in the hair:—
There was an Old Man with a Beard,
Who said “It is just as I feared:
Two larks and a hen,
Pour owls and one wren,
Have all built their nests in my Beard.”
Here you haVe the original puerility in its
simplest form, and this, I assume, was what
Swinburne parodied before the term “Lim-
erick” was ever heard of in connection with
doggerel of that form. A popular puerility
was, is, and ever will be a direct incentive
to indecent parody. The obscenity of the
parody has its roots in respectable public
contempt for the original. I can think back
to my early infancy for a case in point. Out
of the mouths of kids in tunics aud socks
came a dirty parody of such stuff as:—
Old Dog Tray’s ever faithful,
Grief eannot drive him away:
He’s faithful and he’s kind,
And you never will find
A better friend than Old Dog Tray.
The Limericks that “P.Q.J.” speaks of were
really bright antidotes to puerility, not foul
offsprings of lewdness—in the beginning of
their vogue. Parody came naturally when
the inanity of “There Was an Old Man with
a Beard” had been found out by the dull
public at large. It was as inevitable as the
skits on the contemptible waltzes of Dan
Godfrey, which at one time had appealed to
artless Cockney taste in music as the last
word in tuneful dance melody. At first the
“skit” was inoffensive. Poor old Dan’s
silly “Mabel Waltz” led to nothing worse
than a trumpery jingle set to the popular
waltz tune:—
Mabel dear, draw some beer,
In a pew-ter p-o-o-o-t:
Mabel dear, draw it clear,
And please don’t draw it hot—
or drivel to that effect. But the next waltz
melody concocted by the conductor of the
Coldstream Guards band, being a trifle more
pretentious than the “Mabel,” was ridiculed
with a ridiculously obscene parody. The dis-
ease gave the idea for a drastic remedy, and
Godfrey’s waltzes did not long survive their
contemptuous setting to words. So 4 it had
been with the original witless rhymes that,
by a process of evolution, arrived at the
neat and nippy form of “drawing-room limer-
ick.” The wit of obscene parody killed its
insipid forebear, and then gave eternal life
to its purified offspring.
EDMUND FISHER.
Institute of Arts
E. A. Vidler’s proposal (R.P. 14/10/’2O)
for an “Australian Institute of the Arts and
Literature” deserves at least a hearing.
When a liberal allowance has been made for
the natural tendency in a young and healthy
people to draw self-flattering comparisons
between themselves and the rest of the world’s
communities, there still remains, I hold, any
amount of justification for our assumption
that we are second to none in congenital
gumption and suppleness of intelligence.
(And I speak as one who has lived for years
in other countries.) But I suppose none
of us would have the hardihood to maintain
that, as a nation, we take a really active
or discriminating interest in the arts?
Whether he sets off for the theatre in his
own Rolls-Royce or in everybody’s tram-car,
the average Australian is content to merge
his individuality with everybody else’s once
he is inside the building. Movies, Tank
melodrama and those inept variety turns
from the land of the Cockney fill the bill
for the moiler. in his hours of ease; and
negligible drawing-room comedies or shoddy
travesties of Shakspeare do the same for
his employer. But the revue reduces all
to the same bovine level. Repertory theatres
are foredoomed; Limbo yawns hungrily for
them —even with a man like Gregan Mc-
Mahon at the helm. And the semi-clandes-
tine meetings of the various little phil-
dramatic societies are invariably engulfed
in conspiratorial gloom.
We are said to be musical.. But
the sarcastic Verbrugghen, confronted with
half-empty houses during a Melbourne
season _ lasting only a week or .so,
feels himself called upon to write upbraid-
ing letters to the press charging us with
callousness. As for books and their Aus-
tralian readers, a few years ago it was Hall
Caine and Marie Corelli; to-day it js Ethel
M. Dell and Elinor Glyn, or “bilge” of that
sort. And even the success of C, J. Dennis
does not really clear us of the stigma that
we are indifferent to poetry, any more than
the neglect of Bernard O’Dowd proves it.
The deduction to be made in either case is
that we demand above all to be amused.
'Had Dennis eschewed slang in “The Senti-
mental Bloke” or O’Dowd condescended to
cut a few engaging capers in “The Bush,”
their respective reputations—their selling
quality, I mean —might have been exactly
reversed. Certainly there has been a mild
boom in Australian pictures during recent
years. But the only picture-buyer that I
know confesses to storing his purchases in
the safe-deposit.
Perhaps there is salvation for us in this
big idea of E. A. Vidler’s. But I should
discountenace that suggestion about form-
ing an executive council of the “recognised
leaders.” A council of recognised leaders is
a collection of fossils. There are hundreds
of young and strenuous enthusiasts cooling
their heels in outer darkness among our scat-
tered cities who would rush an institution
of this description, provided the “leaders”
were endowed with the requisite vitality;
but how many of the “recognised” mandarins
can boast this essential qualification? Henri
Verbrugghen and Max Meldrum both have
it; and each of them has made himself the
centre of a loyal and efficient circle of artis-
tic energy. Men of this aspiring type do
not develop the stodgy, sagging academic
respectability that one has come to associate
with the idea of recognised leadership in
Australian art.
A. L.
A Satchel of Books
The Man Who Would Not Grow Old, by
1. Sharper Knowlson (T. Werner Laurie).
A pleasant and quite sensible little book of
good advice. The general drift is that a
uian needn’t grow old if he doesn’t want to,
even though his hair whitens and his joints
get creaky.
. Jfhf, Bite of Benin, by Robert Simpson
(Hodder and Stoughton). An adventure
book, capitally written ; color, good; charac-
terisation, excellent. But the mystery on
which the tale hinges breaks up in sheer
unbelief on the part of the reader near the
end. The girl is very attractive; and the
big red-haired trader gets her honestly.
Death Defeated, by W. Britton Harvey
(Wyatt and Watts, Melb.). A small book
consisting mostly of the opinions of more
or less eminent men. on the survival of the
spirit after death. The list includes Russel
Wallace, Lombroso, General French, Glad-
stone, Thackeray, Longfellow and Alexandre
Dumas. What some of them say doesn’t
help the cause much.
Rhymes of a Homesteader, by Elliott C.
Lincoln (Houghton Mifflin Co., New York)]
A cheerful book of second-rate verse. Much
that the volume contains is of the semi-
topical class which appears every day in
Australia; much is slight, thin, a little .pre-
tentious and worked out in a sort of half-
rhymed verse altogether too easy to write.
Still, there is a breeze in the book and some
color.
Sunshine in Underwood, by Jessie Cham-
pion (John Lane). A very happy book
with an elaborate plot, convincing char-
acters, bright conversations and a general
atmosphere of summer and light laughter.
The hero is a curate —a live curate who has
been to the war, who smokes, in a first-class
non-smoking compartment, swears with mild
vigor and takes humorous chances of adven-
ture with a bold front. English country life
looks good in Jessie Champion’s handling of
it.
The Betrothal of Venus, by James Dryden
Hosken (Methuen, London). The author
of this book of verse used to live in South
Australia, but there is no hint of Austra-
lian color in the pages. The verse is of
the dogged, untiring sort that goes on and
on without lift or inspiration. It is never
shockingly bad, seldom moderately good, but
there is a great deal of it. The title-piece
is a long story from William of Malmsbury,
and might have glittered in a poet’s hand-
ling. Hosken is not a poet—not even a
good verse-maker.
The Dahlia in Australia, by E. E. Pescott
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Melb.). This is
a capital little book on the historv, develop-
ment and culture of the dahlia. Practically
everything the cultivator wants to know is
there; and the matter is brought right up
to date with references to varieties which
have not yet got as far as the Common-
wealth. There are good illustrations.
A Century of Tasmanian Methodism, by
C. C. Dugan. The first Tasmanian Metho-
dist sermon was preached by Benjamin Car-
vosso from the steps of Hobart Town Court
House in April, 1820. This little book tells
the rest of the story—a story mostly in-
teresting to the 24,000 Methodists now in
the little State.
Castle Vane, by J. H. M. Abbott (Angus
and Robertson, Sydney), is a story of old
Sydney and the Upper Hunter valley. It
is a book of incident. The martinet major
gets his nose punched and the puncher is
helped by Jewish friends to join the Free
Company, of which the Jewboy is the leader.
All through there is something doing. Lash-
ing, murder, the defence of a fortified house,
the tragedy at the robbers’ stronghold, long
rides in the darkness and the complete
triumph of virtue at last make up a tale that
never falters, but unfolds its plot so hurriedly
that the reader has no time to get a glimpse
of either the surroundings or the feelings of
the actors. For there is very little color in
the book ; and the mere reference to dates
and the reigning Governor do not give enough
atmosphere. Those familiar with the author’s
finer work will miss a lot of the force and
which he sometimes invests the
tale of olden days. Perhaps the time is a
little too late and too much of the picturesque
has been lost with the growth of settlement.
It is on the handling of conversations that the
novelist must chiefly depend to fix and de-
velop his characters ; but the actors here are
all on a dead level, except one who is sup-
posed to be Scotch and one or two who
resemble the typical stage Irishman. “Castle
\ ane ’ is, nevertheless, a first-class book for
Australian boys; and it should find a wide
circle of readers wherever the name of Ned
Kelly is remembered or “Starlight” remains
a hero of romance.
The Inky Way
Country Ped”: Gilbert White may have
been a poorish writer and a “parochial”
of/?n a /l.i2h , aS “ E - F -” all eges (R-P-
--1/IU/20) ; but at least he deserves to be
remembered for telling us about the migra-
tl(?a Previously naturalists held
with bluff old Dr. Johnson, who said, “Swal-
lows certainly sleep all the winter. A num-
ber of them conglobulate together by flying
round and round, and then, all in a heap,
throw themselves under water and lie in
the bed of a river.” White deduced the truth
from an incident that happened near Sel-
borne. Someone killed a duck which had a
silver collar encircling its neck engraved
with the arms of the King of Denmark.
The most astonishing work seen lately is
by an Englishman, Pearsall Smith, who has
rewritten various Old Testament stories in
modern Pink ’Un style. When David
danced before the Lord, “leaping and gyrating
in public with practically nothing on but a
pair of white spats, the cultivated young
queen felt she had never beheld so shock-
ing a spectacle. ‘That’s what comes,’
she bitterly reflected, ‘of marrying out of
one’s own class.’Also Jonah is imagined
as a little man with a retreating chin, who
played pingpong with his children,” and
David’s eldest brother shouts at him, “What
are you doing here? Looking for copy, are
you? I’ll give you copy, you little
!” _ The odd thing is that the facetious
author in his preface expresses an earnest
hope to be of service in the Sundav-school
with his “simple, reverent, but at the same
time more modern and psychological por-
trayal of these hallowed incidents.”


SIMON-CARVES LTD.
Manchester, England,
CONSULTING ENGINEERS and CONTRACTORS.
COKE OVEN DEPARTMENT
BY-PRODUCT COKE OVENS.
TAR DISTILLING and
BENZOL RECTIFICATION PLANTS.
WASHER DEPARTMENT
COAL WASHING PLANTS.
COAL HANDLING PLANTS.
METALLURGICAL DEPARTMENT
BLAST FURNACES, FURNACE HOISTS,
H. B. STOVES, CALCINING and
ORE HANDLING PLANTS.
STEEL FURNACES, GAS PRODUCERS,
RE-HEATING FURNACES and
SOAKING PITS, etc.
CHEMICAL PLANT DEPARTMENT
SULPHURIC ACID PLANTS,
ZINC BLEND and PYRITES BURNERS.
COMPLETE GLASS WORKS.
SUPERPHOSPHATE PLANTS.
AIR PLANT DEPARTMENT
FANS, BLOWERS and EXHAUSTERS,
HEATING and VENTILATING.
FORCED and INDUCED DRAUGHT.
FUME and STEAM REMOVAL.
FORGES and FORGE PLANTS.
MINE VENTILATION.
FERRO-CONCRETE STRUCTURES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Represented by
Arthur Leplastrier Co.
Head Office: 79 Circular Quay, Sydney.


If, Like These Cattle,
stock prices kept firm, selling at the Yards
would be simple.
But rates fluctuate. And that is where
the expert efforts of a salesman show out.
Skill and judgment are needed to secure
top market values. For this reason
CONSIGN SHEEP AND CATTLE:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Homebush Yards, nr
Sydney, or
LIU.
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
Newßiscuits
■ *»
Taste them and see for your-
self why nearly everybody you
meet (adults and children
alike) is making such a fuss
over these delightful biscuits.
The Joyce varieties are some-
thing entirely different to just
ordinary biscuits—their flavors
are distinctive, their ingredi-
ents of the highest standard
obtainable, and their baking so
perfect as to render them
irresistible.
ORDER A TIN TO-DAY.
Qxfy
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
It will save trouble.
The comfort and elegant design of
bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings
make them essentially machines
suitable for lady cyclists. Ease of
control and the absence of trouble
give a feeling of absolute security,
while the economy of a bicycle built
of genuine B.S.A. Fittings is ap-
parent from the first week of pos-
session. For reliability, comfort and
long service they are world famous.
All B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
I
B&A.
A Sign of,
Quality.
Send for Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
A-i
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% ffuaranteed).
SPELTER
BH AS,
aNvua
Containing about 93.75% Metallic Zinc.
Kigh-g[r3d6 Zinc DllSt— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“ Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. X. EIRE, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
“A.W.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
I rrex JP, If A 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
LlllDert Lodge OL LO. L.td.,506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., 161 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.),. Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS-
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATIOH OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
URODONAL
MAINTAINS YOUTH OP THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
12
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Adelaide” : Two buildings which will be
(for the present! Adelaide’s highest are to
go up opposite each other in Bundle-street,
on the corners of Gawler-place. One is to
be another picture-theatre, for the Greater
Wondergraph Co., with a lot of offices on
its frontage. The other is a new Oriental
Hotel. The present snug little place of two
storeys was the Hamburg till the war. These
two costly buildings don’t make the prospect
of widening Gawler-place any simpler. Yet
good judges, including Goodman of the Tram-
way Trust, say that it will certainly have to
be done sooner or later.
“F.W.S.”: Those enthusiasts in LiT
Bu’k’-stleet who, according to “Grego” (B.
14/10/’2O), are vaporising laudanum for
the opium it contains, will come a thud.
The purest opium is obtained by the gentle
evaporation of tinctura opii. But the solu-
tion contains only 1 per cent, opium, so that
from a liquid pound of laudanum —whole-
sale price 17s.—-a little less than one-sixth
of an' ounce of the drug can be recovered,
instead of the 2oz. “Grego” alleges. The
cost of a soz. tin of high-grade smoking
opium is £25 at ordinary times. Obtained
by evaporation the cost of the laudanum
would be over £25 10s. In other words,
beside risking a prosecution for being in
possession of opium suitable for smoking,
and expending much time and labor, the
alchemist would be 10s. out of pocket.
Whaffor?
“Costs”: When a barman appeared at
Sydney Central Police Court a few days
ago charged with the theft of £lB, his victim
declined to prosecute. “Now that the police
have done their work, and been used by
you as a debt-collector, you are satisfied,”
said the police prosecutor bitterly. It i 3
a point on which the force feels strongly.
It doesn’t often get money back, but clothes
and jewellery are frequently retrieved.
Then the thief appeals to the better feelings
of his prey, or sends his indigent wife and
children to do so; or the prey feels disin-
clined to put up with the unconscionable
delays that cases in court are liable to, and
justice is defeated. But that course doesn’t
always pay, for the police are liable to
never again trouble to get back the burgled
effects of one who has once let them in;
and the criminal classes, knowing this, and
having no chivalry in their souls in the
aggregate, concentrate on the merciful one
and skin him.
“Bill Bowyang”: Jim Clarke, the pearl
king of Torres Strait, has sold his luggers
and retired from the industry. It’s no
wonder. Since the war there’s been little
more than beer-money in the game. While
the price of shell is lower than it was,
canvas, copper, rope and other gear used by
divers have gone up 100 per cent. A dress
which formerly cost £7 10s. cannot be pur-
chased at the present time for less than £l5.
Some years ago a lugger could be obtained
for £350. To-day £5OO would be near the
mark for the same boat. Some cost as
much as £7OO, and two were sold at Broome
last year for £lBOO. Furthermore. Nippon
and his colored cobbers are not satisfied with
the native diet of fish and rice, but demand
European tucker. Many of the pearlers are
now devoting their attention to trochus-shell,
which can be procured more cheaply (for
one thing, diver’s gear is not required), and
Binghi, who finds this shell, is not so par-
ticular about the menu.
* * * *
The wail of a bank branch-manager:—
lie banged at the private door after closing time, and
cloaked with heavy, mud-caked boots to my office,
where he tipped out a mass of crumpled papers from
a bag. “Me year’s doin’s, boss —make up me inkim
tax,” he said. I knew the type, although I was
a new man to that branch —the species which,
though rolling in money, yet expects its “banker”
to attend, gratis, to all returns, and incidentally
prepare papers relating to land purchase or sale
and deals of all descriptions, despite there being a
round dozen solicitors, agents, etc., living by this
work in the town. I rescued my papers from beneath
the debris, and waded in, while he made an occa-
sional asinine suggestion to cheat the Government.
After two hours’ toil, a private signal warned me
of tea over-ready and a desperate housewife. Glanc-
ing up from the muddle, I suggested an hour’s spell
to allow him to attend to any business in the town.
“S’pose I take a bite wi’ yer,” he said. Nothing
else for it, as his was our biggest account. He fed
like a hog, and genially remarked that there was no
■ hurry when I proposed an adjournment to the muddle.
Finally I got at it again, while he picked food out
of his teeth and spat the masticated stuff on the
linoleum. At 10 p.m. the job was nearly finished,
when “D —d if I ain’t fergot,” and out came a
crumpled heap of papers from his breeches’ pocket,
which reduced his tax 55., but necessitated a fresh
return. When all was completed, he “borrowed”
an envelope and decided that I had better post it,
though he passed the post office. And as I rumi-
nated over the fact that I must work six months to
make the amount of his tax, he said, “Twelve
o’clock —yer ain’t as slick as the bloke wot had the
bank before yer!”
NOVEMBER RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here’s November coming full of laughter,
Full of bloom and honey;
All the hot and merry winds run after
Easy money.
Money on the tails of flying horses —
Money swiftly spinning
Down the shining curves of distant courses,
Made for winning.
Wattle dips and yellows in the breezes.
I’m not even betting;
Yet the starting price of something thrills and
teases — •
Plain wire netting.
Buying now, shall I with pain remember,
Sorrow gnawing deeper,
How before the end of bright December
It grew cheaper?
Life’s a gamble with the world and weather.
What’s the future spelling?
Earth’s a bookmaker. Both bud and feather
Odds are yelling.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


9
'"'M
""
-
mm
8111 -
m
9 1
w
mmn
/
t
m
m
m
xtf
i
s
t**®
as
m
s
w;
a?
i
a
®w
il
1
1
fifi
fi
M
1
B
M
ffil
i!
n
I
n
;«Wfi
ill
I
w 1
m
m
ms.
il
m.
m
».»:
m
il
M
§«
tt
BH
iMffl
c
mmsKi
mfm
j
i
HH
?i»S
iSS
KNK
1
s
Elli
«
.
R s.R Williams
Essentials in
Tyre Construction
The Sturdy PERDRIAU Tread.
Long before the tyre begins to take
shape under the skilled hands of the
builder, there are definite factors deter-
mining its ultimate service.
The first-grade crude rubber is com-
pounded in the mixing mills according to
the formula that has made the tread of
the sturdy Perdriau Tyre famous through-
out Australia.
Fit Perdriaus for absolute Tyre Security.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH.


*
AS
5
a
#
4
§
vc
H
»y
&\
(’'Stv' \\
S A 7»^ v
V\* Cv&lL ft,
\\ V *2i c \Ci o*. *\
o> ■<**
*, Y£ «
V<£
c <
IT
«i>
* rt
7
Professor livertab
TVYSPEPSIA and stomach trouble mean loss
of appetite. You must eat to live. If you
begin to feel you can’t eat, bad times are coming.
Start at once to take Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and
liver. They restore the appetite and relieve stomach troubles.
They increase the flow of bile, purify the blood,
strengthen the stomach, tone up the whole digestive apparatus.
Chamberlain's Table! s
FOR THE STOMACH anbLIVER
Weaning time
for baby is
“Benger time”
JjScgsg fSM
Weaning time need not
check development nor render
baby fretful. The transition
stage from the breast to
normal food is the stage when
Benger’s should be given to a
breastj-fed baby.
Food
is always prepared with fresh
new milk. It does more than
enrich the milk with valuable
food elements; it adjusts the
milk itself to the delicate
digestion of a child. Baby
takes the change happily and
without check.
THE BOOK OF BENGER’S FOOD
is a medically approved guide to
the rearing of Infants and the
care of Invalids. Everyhousehold
should possess a copy. Write for
it to-day post free.
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd.. 117, Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers:
BENQEE’S FOOD Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
A. 12.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tht
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
8F
s
v
w
Realise the difference
between SCRAPING and SHAVING !
Make a practical test ! Use any other Safety Razor—and
for your next shave use a
Gillette
One experience and the Gillette will be
your razor for life!
No stropping—no honing—no waste of
time! Standard set in leather case, 28/6.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR Co., GANADA.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD. .Sydney, BrUbene, Adelaide-
,Y0 A
Gillette
Safety Razor
“A.H.T.”: Registrar J. A. Carter, of
Perth, recently celebrated his 2500th mar-
riage. Record?
“Y.Z.”: I asked Peter the casual who does
the odd jobs in our vicinity why he had not
voted prohibition. “Sich a waste!” said he.
“Yes, how?” “Well, what’s goin’ to become
of all the bottles?” demanded Pete.
Ex-Lieut. Leonard Keysor, whose Maida
Yale (London) flat was broken into last
month, the burglar returning his victim’s
V.C. by post the next day, is the only Aus-
tralian Jew who won the premier decoration.
He lifted it as an infantry private on Gal-
lipoli in 1915. He left Sydney to marry
a London girl last year, and has settled in
a part of the city which is as Hebraic as
Palestine itself.
“Kay lee”: A Dulwich Hill (Sydney)
bootman lately reckoned he had found a new
way to advertise. At 11 a.m. daily he
appeared at the first-floor window of his
shop and heaved a new boot into the middle
of the road. The person who brought it
into his store was presented with its twin.
Each day the concourse grew larger and
more eager, and the fray became so bitter
that a rising young business-man selected
the site for a new undertakery.
Something unusual in the way of suicides
was that of John McGunn, farmer, of Ivabra,
Central Queensland. He soaked himself in
kerosene, climbed a tree to the height of
15ft. taking a rope with him, and there
hanged himself and set himself on fire simul-
taneously. His wife found him “burning
fiercely” and threw water up at him in vain.
The explanation given is that he had made a
mistake in filling up his income-tax schedule.
There are two ways into the world —Mac-
duff’s and the ordinary one. The number of
ways out is wonderful.
Victor Marsden, the Morning Post repre-
sentative on the Renown, who died recently,
was one of the most popular of the
Imperial pressmen in Sydney. He had had a
bad time in Russia —in fact, his sufferings
there probably caused his death —but he had
nothing but good to say of the people. He
often mildly scandalised Sydney’s rather pro-
vincial Society by pointing out that the
Russians were a most, kindly and spiritual-
minded people, the conventional point of view
being that they were plain thugs. Another
seeming paradox was his dictum that the
only decently-behaved people in the N. S.
Wales Assembly, judged by House of Com-
mons standards, were Laborites.
The passionate desire of the Sydney Gov-
ernment to spend a ton of loan money on
hydro-electric works inside the proposed
new State in Northern N. S. Wales doesn’t
get the gratitude that was expected. The
new State will have to pay for these works
at separation time, and if the money is
raised by the discredited Balmain and
Botany financiers who run the show, the
interest is likely to be terrible. If they send
up their own pet supporters to do the work,
at wages that don’t matter because the new
State will have to pay in the end, the cost
will be terrible also. The wages will go
back to Sydney, but the liabilities won’t.
The final stage—if anything in the law is
ever final—has been reached in the matter
of Paul Joseph, the Tasmanian preacher who
woke Adelaide up about seven years ago
with his building schemes. He neither sought
nor made any profit for himself, but, by de-
positing the Hindmarsh-square church deeds
with the National Bank as security for an
overdraft to build a “City Temple,” he landed
two innocent bodies in a horribly expensive
law-suit. The S. Aus. Supreme Court held
that he had no authority to deposit them, but
the Privy Council has now decided in favor
of the bank, with costs all along the line.
Paul himself meanwhile abandoned the black
coat for khaki, enlisting as a private and
dying far more usefully than he had lived.
Newtown and Chilwell, suburbs of Gee-
long, are in the otherwise-rural electorate
of Barwon. Newtown is the Toorak of Gee-
long ; and its 300 voters being enrolled for
both electorates, their suffrages may be
thrown in a block in either of them. In the
recent election the position of the retiring
member for Geelong was known to be doubt-
ful, whereas the Nationalist rep. for Barwon
was opposed by a weak Farmer candidate
whom the machine considered negligible.
Party managers therefore decreed that the
Newtown bloc should be cast in Geelong.
And then Labor romped home there by
over 1300 votes —and the despised Independ-
ent, whom the bloc could have put well out
of the running, came home a winner in Bar-
won by 61. In Geelong, as in Toorak and
St. Kilda. the machine is calling faintly for
a repair shop.
“Solomon Malaprop” on an allotment:
There is a vacant allotment opposite my house
no great shakes of an allotment and put to no use.
The shape is middling, the grass is the color of
suicide, and it is infested by a tree-climbing goat.
Sometimes I amuse myself by counting the public
liabilities on this forlorn asset, but I can never get
them right. Still, I am sure of these: —
Unpaid rates.
Municipal debt (amount unknown).
Sixty-four registered State loans of the ordinary
kind that I know of. They run up to 1962.
Three new State loans incurred so recently that
they don’t appear on the list yet.
State deficit (Storey says Holman did it).
State liability for unfinished works not provided
for yet.
Federal funded debt.
Federal unfunded debt (about £48,000,000), be-
ing loose cash due to the British Government and
partly in default.
Federal notes in circulation.
Federal £lOOO notes reluctantly kept out of cir-
culation by the banks (“not negotiable”).
Federal soldiers’ bonds (kept out of sight for
the time by being made “not negotiable”).
And now there is a proposed new Federal railway-
reconstruction loan to be camouflaged or ostriched by
being made “not negotiable.” It is a large, wide
variety of debt for one allotment to carry, and no
wonder the goat gets agitated and tries to climb the
tree. Nineteen years ago there was nothing on the
allotment save a previous goat and a little cheap
State debt, most of it not due till 1930 or 1935.
Since then nearly 60 State and Federal debts have
been put in front of the old liabilities because
almost every new creditor would only lend if put in
front of the old ones. There are now only three kinds
of liability left, I should say, to put on the allot-
ment. These are (1) the compulsory loan, (2) the
lottery loan, and (3) the big, final loan in fugitive
ink.


Brilliancy without glare with Reduced Light-
ing Costs. Long Life and Reliability are the
chief characteristics of LAMPS.
SEE THINGS IN A BETT
i; $
SIIdSIr
I M;
MS!
m
m
W
i i
m
awry Oily m ilk® Corn-
m©iaw@&l4lk war© liglktedl
witlk G®sm®s Lamps tike result
w®tjiildl Ik© Mati®nml Es®ia®my
amJ UMwrsall Satisffa<£ti®ia,
A IBrilmiatl IBofelk IPir®<dki<2ll
DRAWN
WIRE
Proprietors :
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Export Co. Ltd. Supply Department
Melbourne,
21-23 Elizabeth Street.
Sydney,
304 Kent Street.
Large stocks held of every class of Wiring Accessory, Lighting
Fixtures, Cooking and Heating Apparatus, Wires and Cables, etc.
Insist on “Cosmos.”
From all Hardware Stores and Electricians.
HEAD OFFICES AND HEAVY PLANT B4 WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY, 12 MARTIN PLACE.
AGENTS—ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH.


cr/9 '
Jfose
oflupcite
begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For mo re than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public bg
their durabilitg , arid
theg are just as dur-
able to-dag as ever ;
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street SYDNEY.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hepnessy.
I
Wmtafb
• Fencing Wire
Stronger and
Less Costly.
It strains tighter and stays rigid.
Is of uniform thickness and con-
tains full length in every coil.
FENCE with “WARATAH"
Write for Free Illustrated Booklet.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. LTD.
310 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Mills, Newcastle, N.S.W.
WARATAH
Fenci
Wire
SB teIRAfN
m
a
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment wiihout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-FglT
Tea Pots keep tea not
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
iOd vax XOH-AOI
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
168 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
OSTER Bull-Dog
and Matchless
Stocks and Dies do
an easy, quick job
on the most difficult
pipe.
Mr. Plumber, is
pipe-screwing hard
work? It certainly
is with old-style
Stocks and Dies—
such as were made
before the days of
steel and galvanised
pipe.
Let us show you
how much easier
the work is with the
modern Bull-Dog
and Matchless tools.
PI STin BPTOR S--
Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Clias. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Lt<L, Perth.
John Danks & Son Pty.. Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Pa rue & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Fredc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
T. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURING CO.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
[6
■n
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs SKF
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout his
plant has done the utmost towards reaching
highest efficiency with maximum economy,
for SKF’s save from 50% to 100% of their
value yearly.
SKF Ball Bearings are made from Swedish
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard thoughout.
SKF Bearings do NOT become hot, hence
they prevent loss of power due to excessive
friction. They assure smooth, free running,
’IT*" " f oower, saving of belts and supreme
durability.
Specify SKF Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
GARDNER,
W/ERN
& GO.,
Power & Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE-
-384 City Road.
Showrooms—
-369 Hinders Street
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarence St.
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street.
SKF
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Repr esentative*.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
SVAE RS/7
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. LTD..
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
C.lO
ALL
TRAVELLING OVER-SEAS SHOULD
AVOID DISCOMFORT FROM
SEA SICKNESS.
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
Prevents and Cures Sea, Air>
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
Frost was the name of the Labor oppo-
nent who beat Outtrim for Maryborough
(Vic.). No wonder the veteran of 76 was
nipped.
Tnnnecliffe, the Laborite who has been
outed for Eaglehawk (Vic.) by Dunstan, of
the Hayseed party, was beaten by a single
vote for inclusion in Vic.’s one Labor Gov-
ernment —that led by Elmslie, which lasted
13 days.
John Meagher was selected by N. S.
Wales Home Rulers to represent them at the
opening of the new Irish Parliament in
Dublin. Dr. O’Donnell was similarly selected
by the Home Rulers of Victoria. Both have
now gone west, and if an Irish Parliament
meets it isn’t with pomp and circumstance.
“I was long enough in England,"’ said
Watt in his apologia, “to have lost faith in
any German indemnity worth talking about.
Any man who builds on it is building on
sand.” Let’s see —how many millions of
war gratuity bonds is Priminister Hughes
going to cash when the German money
arrives next year?
Redfern (Sydney) has an alderman who
was knocked out by a German shell near
Bapaume. A piece of the metal tore through
his steel hat and entered the frontal bone,
and portion of the skull had to be, removed.
But Alderman Cleary is carrying on. He
represents Labor, and his father was the
Sergeant Cleary who attested Starlight, the
bushranger.
“All the older leaders are personally
averse to the strike,” said the cable re the
coal upheaval in Britain, and added that it
was “engineered by young extremists.” That
is the 999th proof that a wife should be an
ex officio member of her husband’s union. .
With a home and a herd of children to care
for she has more at stake in a strike than
10 young extremists.
Sixteen thousand doctors in the U.S.A.'
are now licensed to issue drinking-permits
there, and each is allowed 400 per annum.
The list of doctors is being added to. A
blanket of nasty brown fog has hung round
Macquarie-street since Hickey introduced
his measure to “tax” doctors’ bills; but little
items like the foregoing are making things
brighter. A “specialist” with the right to
issue 400 orders yearly at a modest two
guineas each can see a silver lining to
almost any fog.
The Professor of Architecture at Sydney
Uni. recently paid a high compliment to the
unnamed architects of the Macquarie era.
The chief of them was William Greenway,
who was exiled early last century for a
breach of the Bankruptcy laws. Examples of
his skill still exist in St. James’s Church
and the Hyde Park Barracks. Two books
containing a number of his drawings, together
with their “bills of quantities,” are pre-
served in the Government Architect’s Depart-
ment. A third was lost.
“Spare Corp.”: The Repatriation Depart-
ment has discovered that, by developing the
natural bent of vocational trainees for par-
ticular trades, it can get remarkable results.
A man of 40, bred to farming, but incapaci-
tated for that industry, has, in six months,
shown uncommon skill in the jeweller’s craft.
After four months’ training a young ex-Dig-
ger is able to turn out casks with any cooper.
A three months’ pupil in the furniture-trade
has fashioned a table with inlaid woods, a
most difficult achievement. Tyros were made
soldiers in a short time by a system of in-
tensive training. We approach the day of
intensive training for trades and professions.
Sylvia Pankhurst is in trouble again, in
London, her rat this time being that Parlia-
ment House should be turned into • a tip
for manure. It reads like the attempt
of a mad woman to rouse the alien popula-
tion to plunder and slay the native born.
London reeks with low-class aliens, and if
revolution came the foreign-born would be
the backbone and the incendiary part of it.
Success, if achieved, would have to be by a
sudden seizure of the official machine before
the real England heard much of the business
or had time to interfere. Then a Provisional
Government would be formed out of the
materials at hand, and it would represent the
motley, polyglot, cosmopolitan city exclu-
sively. Provisional Governments are always
formed from either the army or the city
populace. The delay involved in consulting
the country would be fatal, so the country
has to be disfranchised,, disqualified and
treated as a conquered land.
“Exile” on drouth and drinks:—
Two important reasons why Prohibition was passed
quickly and quietly in the U.S.A. are bad drink
and too many saloons. The only honest drink sold
in bars was a light German hock averaging about
five per cent, alcohol. You could buy it from sd.
to 7 Ad. per half-pint everywhere. Cocktails (then
and still a curse) were manufactured chiefly in
chemical factories and bottled. The original cock-
tail, so-called because its bite was like the sting
of the scorpion’s tail, was gin and vermouth, called
a “Martini,” or whisky and vermouth, named a
“Manhattan.” A third variety, first made in the
back bar of the Empire Theatre promenade in Lon-
don (now, alas! abolished), was brewed of rum,
and French and Italian vermouth, with a dash of
absinthe. It was invented by a inild-looking party
and facetiously called “Dr. Brown” by Colonel North,
Zeb Lane and “Pitcher,” of the Pink •’Un, who
introduced me to it in the days of the Barmecides.
But these Yankee “carktails,” vicious as they were
originally, did not contain sulphuric acid, as does
the bottled “carktail.”
Whisky in Amurriky is made from rye and pota-
toes, and the oldest and best of it is vile. Gin they
distil from redwood pine, while true American
brandy tastes like asafoetida and acts like t.n.t.
And the new Californian sweet wines are just high
explosives, smelling of earth and acetic acid. So
what was a feller to drink, except beer, unless he
could pay high for Scotch whisky, London gin or
French brandy ? The saloons were dreadful dives,
small, dark and dirty. In San Francisco in 1913
there were over 3000 saloons. And ’Frisco’s popula-
tion then was the same as Melbourne’s is now, about
700,000. When Prohibition loomed over the horizon
about 1500 saloons disappeared as such by giving
up their licenses without compensation. In Aus-
tralia we never have had such bad drink or such
vile public-houses as they had in the Yewnited
States before 1919. Comparisons between the drink-
ing habits and the effect of alcohol in the two
countries are misleading. The Australian is abste-
mious beyond compare with the North American,
who is frequently a primitive person from Central
and Southern Europe weaned with alcohol and accus-
tomed to drink it in dens and amidst poverty.


Good Value —
Always Growing Greater
As the improvements are made in Dodge
Brothers car nothing is said to Dodge
Brothers dealers, or to the public, about
them.
This is in pursuance of a policy inaugurated
by Dodge Brothers at the very outset.
They look upon the progressive improve-
ment of the car as a matter of course.
It is a plain duty they owe to themselves
and to the public.
There is no necessity of heralding these
improvements in advance.
The public finds out about them in due time,
and expresses appreciation and approval.
And so, while the process of betterment goes
on every day, nothing is said of it until
after it is accomplished.
The car is basically the same car as it was
five years ago.
Yet there isn’t a bit of doubt but that it is
a better car.
The car of to-day is worth more money than
the car of five years ago.
Not because the cost, of materials have in-
creased—although they have—
But especially because the standards of con-
struction have been steadily raised —the
shop practice made steadily finer.
And still the buyers of the first cars, and
every subsequent car, received full value.
That is proven by the fact that all of the
cars, no matter how long ago they were
built, are giving good service to-day.
It is still further proven by the high price
they command when sold at second-
hand. .
Any car built .by Dodge Brothers commands
a high price—whether it was built five
years ago or five months ago.
This high valuation on any car bearing
Dodge Brothers’ name has been fixed,
not by them but by the public.
Dodge Brothers have few market problems
to bother them, and practically nothing
to do but make the car better.
They are their own severest critics, and they
will never wait for the public to ask
for a better car from them.
They try to anticipate—to travel ahead —
to give even more than is expected.
No material, no part and no accessory is
barred from Dodge Brothers car be-
cause it is too high priced.
The only question asked, the only proof de-
manded, is of its goodness.
When the car was designed, its parts were
charted and chosen according to quality
and with an utter disregard of price.
That policy still prevails, only it has been
intensified.
No source of supply can have too high a
standard for Dodge Brothers—nothing
too good can be offered for Dodge Bro-
thers car.
There is not merely a pretence of building a
good car; there is an all-day and all;
night effort and determination to pro-
duce a good car.
That policy plus a process of research, test,
refinement and proof, make for continu-
ous progress.
That is why it is still the same car.
That is why its value is always growing
greater.
That is why the Standardised Motors
Limited, dealers in New South Wales
for Dodge Brothers find an ever-increas-
ing demand for the car.
Dodge
ROTHERS
MOTOR CAR
The same things are thought and said about Dodge
Brothers Motor Car everywhere.
The eagerness to own the car is no greater in one country
or State or section than it is in another.
In proportion to population, the demand is just as steady
wherever you go.
It has continued to be just as even, and just as - steady,
for more than five years.
The good opinion of the car has not lagged, or lapsed, or
faltered, since the first cars were built.
The only change has been an increased and intensified
appreciation and increased confidence in the builder.
And Dodge Brothers purpose to continue to make their
car so good that they will always deserve this confidence.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd-
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
safeguard your
with
health
fttJ.CoUis Brou»e's
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BUONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England.
J
The ‘PLUM’
i is the
Razor for Me!”
This noted Razor is no new inven-
tion —thousands are sold annually.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
pin", as its finely-tempered edge keeps
keen against the stillest beard, and
gives just that smooth, velvety shave
which every man appreciates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 257-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle.. 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present)
“Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 & 10/6
“Plum” Stog Dressing 1/2
All the above Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General manager.
fn these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
1
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
fin. to 4 inches.
■■
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
. , B - C - Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Troubling, Cast Iron and Wrouaht
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches*
London Pattern Blocks, etc., etc. incnes,
Offices and Warehouses—4lB-424 and 450-460 Ann Street
Brisbane. Works—Yeerongpilly *
(Trams pass near by.V J


'a±3>
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ fancy double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3O. Smaller
Diamond, £25.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller
Diamonds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l7/10/-, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold double-cut Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, £2O.
Larger Diamonds, £25. Guaranteed, s
®0 @ &
A. Saunders’ double 4 cut Diamond knife-edge Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds, £4O, £3O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £35.
Smaller Diamonds, £25.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s solid Gold Hunting Keyless
Patent Lever, jewelled compensation balance,
£l2/10/-, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £35,
£4O, £5O. Gold-filled Elgin or Waltham,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805*815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamond, £5.
A. Saunders’ Diamond and Pearl Bar Broooh,
15ct. Gold, £3. All Diamonds, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
’Mng, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO. Larger Dia-
mond, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5. L arger Dia-
monds, £2O, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Trefoil Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller Dia-
monds, £l5,
£l2/10/-
MSS
*af
$
&
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, £B/10/-
Others, £5/10/-, £O/10/-. £7/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5. Guaranteed.
o
1
Kx
0
i
1
n*.
Va
Renew, Repair,
Reclaim
Without the Dust and Dirt.
YES, without the muss and litter of a plaster
job. The clear, clean panels of Beaver Board
instantly cover up old cracked plaster and dis-
coloured wall paper.
And Beaver Board is as quick as it is clean. It
is done in a short time and for all time —you’ll
never have to replace Beaver Board — it cannot crack-
It lasts as long as the building.
Beaver Board not only provides durable walls
and ceilings with a saving of time and bother,
but insures rooms of beauty and refinement. There
is no limit to the pleasing decorative effects that
may be obtained.
You can be sure of the Beaver Board result—pro-
viding you get genuine Beaver Board with the trade-
mark plainly printed on the back of every panel.
Beaver Board is stocked by Timber Merchants
and Builders’ Furnishers. See your local dealer!
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Canada London, England Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Mills and Works in Canada and U. S. A.
Australasian Representative
O. D. GORDON. G. P. O. Box 2408, Sydney. N. S. W.
BE AVER.
JL-r V X-s X
BOARD
You can’t expect
Beaver Board re-
sults unless this
trademark is on
the back of the
board you buy
FOR. BETTER. WALLS €f CEILINGS
BEAVER
BOARD
MADE IN


LAMES!
Do you ever pay your visits
in hob-nailed boots ? How in-
dignantly you answer “Cer-
tainly not.” Well, then
why in the name of Heaven do you carry a visiting-
card that looks like an advertisement for some black-
smith? An engraved card is a sure sign of artistic
taste.
A. S. BENNETT,
21b Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Public Notice.
Dalgety and Company Limited.
riIHE Transfer Books will be closed from
X the 17th to the 27th November inclu-
sive, preparatory to the payment of the half-
yearly dividend.
M. It. MACRAE,
Manager.
Legal Notices.
TIN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
1 PROBATE DIVORCE AND ADMIRALTY
BI,VISION (Divorce).
To GERTRUDE STOKES late of 37 Park Street
Weymouth in the County of Dorset.
Take notice that a Citation has been issued in
this Division citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of Frederick Stokes of 119 St. Saviours
Road Saltlev in the City of Birmingham praying
for a dissolution of marriage. Tn default of your
so appearing you will not he allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition proved and pronounce sentence in
respect thereto. And take further notice that for
the purpose aforesaid within three month* after
the date of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Divorce Registry Somerset House
Strand London.
HAMLINS, CRAMMER & HAMLIN,
29-30 High Holhorn, London, W.C.I.
For K. Povey Harper, of Birmingham, solicitor
' for the Petitioner.
A. MUSGRAVE, Registrar.
TN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
L PROBATE DIVORCE AND ADMIRALTY
DIVISION (Divorce).
To RONALD JAMES MACDONALD, late of 37
Park Street Weymouth in the County of Dorset.
Take notice that a Citation has been issued in
this Division citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of Frederick Stokes of 119 St. Saviours
Road Saltley in the City of Birmingham praying
fpr a dissolution of marriage. In default of vour
so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
-aid Petition proved and pronounce sentence in
respect thereto. And take further notice that for
the purpose aforesaid within three months after
the date of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Divorce Registry Somerset House
Strand London.
HAMLINS, GRAMMER & HAMLIN,
29-30 High Holborn, London, W.C.I.
For K. Povey Harper, of Birmingham, solicitor
for the Petitioner.
A. MUSGRAVE, Registrar.
Missing Friends.
X> ELATIVES of the late MARTIN
IRWIN, native of Wicklow, Ireland,
please communicate with the undersigned.
Property left. J. REID STEWART, Mor-
rinsville, Auckland, N.Z.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
T I VO II THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
LEE WHITE,
in THE GIRL FOR THE BOY,
the greatest musical comedy since girls were made.
Interpolated: Feature musical Turn of
BAILEY & COWAN, W. ESTELLE DAVIS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents another Musical
Masterpiece.
MAGGIE.
Starring engagement of VERA PEARCE and
IVY SHILLING.
Prices as usual.
|_| 1C It M A .1 E S T Y ' S. S V I) X K \
' * Lessees and Managers: J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF YES, UNCLE.
SATURDAY NEXT. NOVEMBER 13.
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
SO LONG, LETTY.
A Star Artist in a Star Play.
Plans at Paling’s.
Cli I T E It I O N T II E A T It E, SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON Ltd.
Farewell Season of MARIE TEMPEST and
GRAHAM BROWNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE GREAT ADVENTURE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 13.
THE MARRIAGE OF KITTY.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
u
NION CICTIIR
THEAT It K S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOME. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KINO’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|f ING’S THEATRE. MKLISOC It N E.
rv Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 13.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present John D. O’Hara in
SHORE ACRES, Plan at Allan’s.
A Comedy Drama of Laughter and Thrills.
Amusements.
PLAYHOUSE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
DIRECTION AUSTRALIAN PLAYS, LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OP
THE BOSS COCKIE.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, GEELONG,
NOVEMBER 13, 15, 16.
—— |
U OYT'S THEATRES, MELBOCKNK.
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
PRISOLLA DEAN in
KISS OR KILL.
GEORGE WALSH in
THE DEAD LINE
Prices as usual.
QLYMPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIRTH BROS.’ NEW CIRCUS, LTD.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Amusements.
THE
GLACIA R I U M ,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT -8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG in
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gRITANMA "'HEATItE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the
the productions of CHAPLIN,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
world’s films, including
VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
CURRUMBIN PLANTATIONS ESTATE.
Banana Land Subdivision.
17 GLORIOUS UNIMPROVED BANANA BLOCKS 17
in convenient areas of from 10 to IT* acres, to be sold by public auction, on
SATURDAY, 27th NOVEMBER, 1020. at 2 o’clock, in Thornton & Pearces
Rooms, Tweed Meads.
Undpubtedly the finest piece of rich Virgin volcanic scrub country ever
submitted to the public.
Admirably situated in the centre of the magnificent and wealthy Tweed
District, on the famous Currumbin and Tnllebudgerra hillside slopes, only 6 miles
from railway station (by good road), from whence the fruit is conveyed to
Sydney and Melbourne Markets.
It excels in quality, convenience, shelter and aspect. The scrub on each
block has been felled and burnt, so as to enable purchasers to obtain the advantage
of the Spring growth.
Easy terms, only quarter cash, no further payments of principal
for two years, balance extending over seven years with interest
at 6 per cent.
Write for illustrated lithographs and full information, to THORNTON
& PRARCE, and P. SMITH, SON & ELLIOTT, Auctioneers in conjunction,
TWEED HEADS.
la
Mr. Edison spent
£600,000 to perfect
The NEW EDISON
Mr. Edison spent this enormous sum in
seven years. Experiment after experiment
was made that you might enjoy the world’s
greatest music in your home.
In the New Edison is embodied his success. This marvellous instrument
actually Re-creates the human voice so perfectly that even the most
critical of musical critics cannot detect the difference.
This surely is the instrument you want —write for free literature to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Palace Hotel, Perth, W.A.
Si
To be Sold by Public Auction in Perth, W.A.
on Tuesday, December 7, 1920.
This is the leading hotel of Western Australia’s progressive capital.
All particulars and illustrated descriptive pamphlet from
LEARMONTH DUFFY & CO., Auctioneers,
87 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
';*v
ABBEY
SHOES!
Every wearer of Abbey Shoes may rest
content in the knowledge that he is per-
fectly shod. Our footwear is built to
combine correct and distinctive appear-
ance with absolute COMFORT.
We illustrate a superior-quality Patent
Oxford Bal., Dull Calf Legs. Stocked in
three fittings—-narrow, medium and wide.
Price: 84/-
AII Patent Bals 847-
Tan Bals 67/6
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
What of
Xmas
Presents ?
Three fine diamonds
set in platinum.
£2O.
What form will they take this year?
Our judgment is that they will largely take
the form of diamonds, and wisely so, as dia-
monds well bought are always a safe invest-
ment as well as being prized presents.
Then, too, diamonds with us are at lower prices
than they are in London or Amsterdam.
WHY?
Speculative diamond men- hit hard by the
banks calling in overdrafts in Europe dare not
sell there at loss prices, and so have sent dia-
monds to Australia and realised cash at
reduced prices in the hope of tiding over the
crisis.
We have many thousands of such diamonds, and
are selling them at less than London prices.
They form everlasting and pleasing presents.
Fairfax U Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mulled Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. nc..
118 West 31st Street.
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy* write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


DO YOUR XMAS THINKING NOW
Think Xmas-
Do not be like the multitude who wished they had.
Think Chocolates Think Golden Gate
and your Christmas worries are over.
We have gathered from the world’s markets a wonderful assortment of the most
BEAUTIFUL BASKETS AND SWEETMEAT
BOXES
ever brought to Australia.
These are attractively decorated and most exclusive in design and exquisite in colorings, marvels of beauty
and absolutely new ,
Boxes and baskets are filled with our hand-made, hand-dipped Chocolates, each piece being a mouthful of
CTOCOT ATFS tfUlneSS—Cl ' eamy ’ frUlty and nut centres — l smooth, crisp coating, in fact, GOLDEN GATE
Daintily and carefully packed.
Also our Blue and Gold Chocolates, in
boxes, from 7/6 to £l/7/6.
Various sizes from 6/6 to £6/6/-
And SUPER CHOCOLATES. Milk and
Bittersweet assortments. Boxes 6/- & 10/6.
These prices include all packing and postage charges.
Golden Gate Sundae Shop, Pitt & Market Streets, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “So Long, Letty”
Cbiterion “Irene**
Palace “The Marriage of Kitty”
£ ,VOL / “The Girl for the Boy”
“ OYT s Moving Pictures
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pirates of Penance”
Royal , “The Boy”
KriTG’s “Shore Acres”
Tivoli “Maggie”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
™ E, ‘UA Moving Pictures
Britannia •... Moving Pictures
Glaciaiiiuu Dancing
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
Though showing signs of insufficient re-
hearsal, Wilkie’s “Merry Wives” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s can be regarded as an
additional feather in his cap. Wilkie him-
self fairly captures the spirit of the comedy
in a striking picture of Falstaff. From his
first hankering for Mistresses Ford and
Page to his final disgrace in Windsor
Forest, Allan’s Falstaff is the ludicrous and
pitiful figure that Shakspeare drew. And
the impersonation is helped by a good make-
up which presents a large red face in a
frame of white hair, and includes laughable
legs waddling under the weight of the bulg-
ing tummy. Miss Hunter-Watts, who has
arranged the picturesque Morris Dance that
finishes the evening, reveals in Mrs. Ford
a rather lively hoyden whose baiting of the
stout knight is touched with cruelty. Mrs.
Page (Miss Lorna Forbes) is more placid
in her humor and appears to feel that poor
old Falstaff pays heavily for his behavior.
Neither lady, however, is fastened to a
sparkling husband. Mistress • Page’s partner
(Guy Hastings) is a doleful character who
faltered now and again in his lines on Satur-
day, while Vivian Edwards is a restless,
glowering Ford, who expresses his jealousy
with lugubrious brutality. Miss Helen
Fergus, as Dame Quickly, gets in some good
work at Falstaff’s ear, but Chris Olgar is
no happier in his falsetto rendering of
Slender than is Winsor Gordon in his bald
portrayal of Fenton. Roy Workman gives
Dr. Caius the wavy hands and high, note of
a vaudeville Frenchman, and Edwin Landor
seeps a vocalised super in the unsuitable
role of the Welsh parson, Hugh Evans.
Amy Birch is a fetching Robin, and Vera
St. John is a likeable Anne, who might be
almost bewitching with a more inspiring
sweetheart. For the rest Vincent Scully
fills Shallow with modest rejoicing, Augus-
as Major-General Stanley lost the Slap forces
tus Neville is the robust Host of the Garter
Inn, Jack Dennon and Castle Morris appear
a bit slop-made as Pistol and Nym, and
Fred Patey keeps his thick speech in heavy
training as the mostly-fuddled Bardolph.
** * *
The band’s occasional inability to keep in
time with the singers rather marred the per-
formance of “The Pirates of Penzance” at
Melbourne Majesty’s on Saturday. Though
it improved later, the orchestra was notice-
ably behind in parts of the first act. In
fact, Charles Walenn’s hurried opening ditty
“The Merry Wives of
Windsor” at
Melbourne Princess's.
Chris Olgar as
Slender.
entirely. In other
musical aspects the
production was a
noticeable success.
Strella Wilson has
Sained confidence
with experience,
and showed it in
the part of Edith.
Her singing
throughout was
excellent, the rich,
untroubled warb-
ling of “Poor Wan-
dering One” bring-
ing almost every
hand into action in
a demand for more.
Thelma Carter,
Grace Crotty and
Beryl Walkely offi-
ciated tunefully as
the other three
sisters, and Ethel
Morrison, em-
bezzled from “The
Boy” at the Royal,
wore Ruth’s 47
winters without
making it a weight-
for-age event. The
Pirate King o f
Frederick Hobbs
was big and lusty,
but facially h e
looks like the de-
scendant of a long
line of steak-
a n d-oyster me r-
ehants. There are no oily Dagoish graces
about him, however, and his large baritone
is very partial to the rollicking pirate songs.
Villiers Arnold is unsparing with the grease-
paint to achieve a low-comedy countenance
for the pirate lieutenant. Villiers might have
intended to make Samuel’s dial excessively
gruesome, but in the result it seems more as
if it had tried to obstruct a tram in the per-
formance of its duty. Frederic, the Pirate
Apprentice, is gifted with clustering golden
curls, and the thin tenor of James Hay fre-
quently soars within him, but Frederic has
the miserable aspect of one who produces
1 Beer statistics at a Prohibition meeting.
Walenn is always fresh and dapper as the
General, and apparently nothing can shake
the repose of Ivavanagh as Sergeant of Police.
The ladies of the chorus are as vocally good
as the pirate crew, but the latter’s abundance
of hair and whisker suggests a Russian Soviet
in fancy-dress. The season will finish in a
few nights; meanwhile public attention is
concentrated on to-day’s matinee of “The
Mikado,” in which Howard Vernon, for his
own benefit, will take the stage again in his
old part of Ko-Ivo.
Second impressions of “Maggie” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli confirm one’s impression that
it has the unusual merit of being brightest
iu the third act, where the mannequins
appeal for observation. Maggie gets back to
graft at the gorgeous ragshop in Act 3
after her one brief week of glorious masquer-
ade. It is there that Alfred Majilton part-
ners Ivy Shilling in a series of charming
dance-movements, artistically introduced, and
Rex London buys half the costume parade
at enormous expense in order to placate his
appalling spouse, and the man who fell in
love with Maggie under false pretences
returns from his North Pole flying expedi-
tion to sing to her for the last time ere they
get married. Majilton’s sketch of the minc-
ing costume color-schemer, who adores his
own confections and sits up all night with
dreams of sweet camisoles, is the only in-
tresting male person in the show, Rex Lon-
don being just the usual loud, conventional
“THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR
AT MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Allan Wilkcie as Sir John Falstaff.
low comedian, stuffed with droll conceits
and swimming in fat. London’s lines are
frequently very funny, but he makes poor
use of them. Indeed, the French intentions
of the authors and composers are often in-
discernible in this unfinished performance.
A note of discord is struck by the opening
chorus, and all subsequent attempts to treat
the very light music in a light and tuneful
spirit are failures, more or less. The voices
were not built for music in which the melody
is not glaringly obvious, and though Juliet
De Gai, in the part of giddy Gilberte, is
possibly as French as her name, her voice is
so inconsiderable that she doesn’t help save
the situation. Still, “Maggie” is a riot
of color and bustle, and sometimes the
general effect is pretty fine.
At Melbourne Royal, where “The Boy”
continues to lure his magisterial step-father
into indiscretion, the part of Mrs. Meebles
is now in the hands of Kitty Barlow, an
essentially large lady who plays it with
breathless anxiety and a decided lean-for-
ward. Miss Barlow speaks her words feel-
ingly enough, but she certainly ought to put
her shoulders back and moderate her outline.
* * :Jc
Friday will be Melbourne’s last chance of
being struck by “Lightnin’ ” at Melbourne
King’s. On Saturday comes “Shore Acres,”
another comedy-drama from the country that
won the war.
❖ ❖ >Jc
Another Streeton season:—
Streeton has been having a look at the Grampians,
and the result is a dozen canvases which make an
impressive show at Melbourne Athenamm. Probably
the most striking is “Peaks at Sunrise’’ with its
suggestion of distance and solitude deepened by
the approach .of evening. The same grandeur is
conveyed in colder colors in “Monte Rosea*” which
affords numerous opportunities for an untidy suicide
on its dark and dizzy slopes. Streeton gets the greys
of the crags to perfection in No. 13, but somewhat
stresses the blue of the valley afar. “Hall’s Gap”
is remarkable for the mountain sceilery and the light
falling in pools on the green flats below. A similar
foreground effect is seen In “Blue Valley from
Grendon,” which is further interesting for its vigor-
ous painting of clouds. The artist is not so suc-
cessful in “Burnt Timber,” and his three fan
designs are unsensational, but his study of “Plum
Blossom” demonstrates his high quality as a still-
life performer.
❖❖ ❖ ❖
At Wirths’ Circus people and things that
didn’t appear on the first night are now
striking astonish-
ment to the soul of
Melbourne. Not to
exaggerate, nor set
down a u h t in
malice, the Wirths’
show is as 'big and
strong as they
make ’em 5n the
circus - cum - men-
agerie line of en-
tertainment ; and
if any show on
earth could ever
come up to the
description of its
publicity agent,
this would doubt-
less be the one.
>!: i'.i *
“Two Weeks” is
the current exclte-
me n t at M e I=-
bourne Majestic,
Constance Tal-
madge, as a dis-
appointed chorus
lydy, blows into
the society of three
tame bachelors, and
the domestic tem-
perature leaps into
t he" hundreds
Field Fisher as Uncle
Brabazon in “Yes,
Uncle,” at
Sydney Majesty's.
with very little effort on Connie’s part. Louise
Glaum, in “Wedlock,” is equally disturbing,
but she is the victim of a secret marriage and
leads a miserable existence for the best part
of the yarn. At Hoyt’s George Walsh hi
“The Dead Line” leads the Worried life of a
feudist, with several revenges to satisfy be-
fore the ammunition gives otit; “Kiss Pi- Kill”
is also on Hoyt’s screen, With Priscilla Dean
as the inevitable prize for the good young
man Who saves her from a familiar con-
fidence trick. At the Britannia “Burning
Daylight” is robbing numerous film-fanciers
of their sleep, and, according to “The
Figurehead” at the Melba, the odor of
Amurkan municipal politics would make a
decayed egg take refuge in a violet bed.
** * *
“The Boss Cockie,” which has been raising
a nightly crop of laughs at Melbourne Play-
house, is booked to move on to Geelong at
the end of the week.
s|c $
When the ghost of Hamlet’s father downed
his shroud on a memorable occasion the pre-
sentation of Shakspeare’s masterpiece had to
be abandoned. On Monday night Maggie
Weston, of the “Irene” Co., fell downstairs
and broke an arm and a leg. But the Syd-
ney Criterion show still went on, as it did
at the time of the great chorus-girls’ strike.
It is the sort of entertainment that would
go on if the principals retired and the
orchestra left in a body in the middle of an
act.
Jfc
It is to be “So Long, Letty,” at Sydney
Majesty’s on Saturday night, with Dorothy
Brunton bearing the heat and burden of
the play. Meantime, “Yes, Uncle,” is expir-
ing to the music of a rush of death-bed
business.
❖ ❖ * *
“Cousin Kate,” of very pleasant memories,
will have Marie Tempest’s attention at
Saturday’s Sydney Palace matinOe; and
“The Marriage of Kitty” will replace “The
Great Adventure” at that evening’s show.
$$ $ $
Go to Sydney Royal to see Chefalo. He’s
the gentleman who walks through a solid
wall. There is no deception about it, ladies
and gentlemen: step up and bump it your-
selves. With him is Palermo, and between
them they have more new shocks to offer
than a war-time Budget.
** * *
Rolf Bojdrewood’s “Robbery Under Arms”
makes a fine picture. Starlight and his
horse Rainbow naturally take pride of place,
but fine work is done by every member of
the big cast. Tien Hogue as Aileen Mars-
den looks bonny enough to have converted a
countryside of cattle-duffers into law-abiding
citizens. The Strand and the Lyric (Syd-
ney) have this Australian red meat. Mary
Miles Minter as Rosemary “Climbing the
Heights” supports the Starlight film at the
Strand. Rosemary, too, goes against the
law; but she comes out of the trial with a
lover and money. This week Sessue Haya-
kawa becomes a Spanish bull-fighter, by name
Lopez. The girl he has chosen as the special
peach of his life’s dessert proves a slipstone
and leaves him a hard nut bf,revenge to
crack. The Crystal Palace has all _ the
lurid details; in addition it shows Viola
Dana living d ‘‘Chorus Girl’s Romance.”
and rising from the front ranks of a fascinat-
ing Shimmy Shake dance to literary fame.
“Away Goes Prudence” tells all about Billie
Burke at the Globe and Haymarket. She
simply won t be good, because dad refuses
her a new aeroplane. On the same screens
Elsie Ferguson gets on the track of the
makers of bad two-bob pieces.
** * *
Pictures are the main amusement in Adel-
aide at the moment. Those of the Cup go
as well as anything. The American plavs
are of the “powerful” type. Carpentier 'is
at the Royal; and in a supporting film, “The
Shark,” George Walsh gets knocked out with
bottles and - other popular but is) all
there at the finish. At Wondergraph Robert
Warwick is fighting in African sun; at
West’s more stousli (with bears thrown in)
in Alaskan snow; and at the Pav. “A Ro-
mance of the Underworld,” in which opium
and the revolver get in some good work. A
strenuous lot.
Among the Northern stars:—
The Lieut.-Governor opened the 30th annual exhi-
bition of the Queensland Art Society, and found some
excellent work on the walls. P, S. Hobday scored
with his picture, “Night’s Tranquil Hush,” in which
the landscape is a crooning lullaby. Another wicket
went down before his “Moonlight Symphony.” Like
his late father this Urtist knows how to paint Queens-
land .skies. Mrs, Muntz Adams Showed some fclevhr
portrait studies, but was less hdppy in “The Mystic ”
a nondescript lady in a carefully-pairited robe. 6.
H. Lancaster had a little gem of a canvas on which
he had transfixed a delicious peep of bush. Gwen
Grant was represented by a clever study of a head,
and her husband had a “Girl Sewing,” to which a
black background gave a charm. E. Colclough, H.
Jarvis, A. E. Perry and H. C. Simpson deserve hon-
orable mention in the water-color section. Only one
southern artist, 0. Wheeler, D.C.M. (Melb.), who
had a show in Sydney the other week, sent anything—
various undressed ladies, of which the most curveful
were “River Nymphs.” Some attractive pottery and
a few not distinguished specimens of sculpture fin-
ished off the exhibition.
“Hfermish”: Nat Phillips, who plays
in “Stiffy aiid Mo;” was bnce appearing at
d hall from which he always had to rhsh to
get his last train. Preceding him on the bill
was a Scotch comedian of local popularity
whose encores were frequent. One night,
when Scotty’s friends were more insistent
than usual, Nat whispered from the wings:
“If you take the call I’ll miss my last train.
Give me a chance.” So Scotty declined the
encore, explaining why. Then Nat hopped
on and was just warming up to his work,
when a disgusted voice floated down from
the gods: “Catch your train, boy!”
“T. D. Emdee”: Jenyns was in the
cast of “The Magistrate” when it was pro-
duced by her stepfather, plain Bill Holloway,
in th.e late ’eighties, Arthur Greenaway, now
supporting Marie
Tempest and
Graham Browne,
was the boy, Cis
Farrington. Hollo-
way played Colonel
Lukin; Essie
Jenyns was Char-
-1o 11 e Verrinder ;
Dick Stewart and
Albert Norman
were Posket and
Bullamy respec-
tively; Kate
Arden (Mrs. W. J.
Holloway) tv a s
Mrs. Posket, and
Bob Inman the
monocled Captain
Horace Vale. At
first Gerald Dillon,
who later went to
America, was
Achille Blonde, the
proprietor of the
hotel. Later a
French actor im-
personated the
waiter, and his
business in showing
Posket how to “put
the change to bed”
“The Great Adven-
ture,”
at Sydney Palace.
Plumpton Wilson as
Lord Alcar.
was inimitable. Greenaway had not been
long a member of the co., and. being
extremely boyish, fitted the part of Cis per-
fectly. He was facially like Essie Jenyns
in those days, and nlayed Sebastian to her
Viola in “Twelfth Night.”
“Busker”: Bob Inman, who is with the
Allan Wilkie co., does Friar Laurence in
“Romeo and Juliet.” I saw him in that
tragedy ’w r ay back in ’B3, when he was Ben-
volio at the Melbourne Opera House in
George Rignold’s fine production, with all
the Henry Irving pomp and circumstance,
and the Lyceum scenery, ivory satin tableau-
curtains and trimmings. Inman was a dash-
ing juvenile in those days, and to-day his
stage young men are thoroughly convincing.
I don’t know how he does it.


W 7
m
8*
§
T*r
hr
: 'V. •
Hi
m
i--S.
~
.o«
Si
"S^nnnii
'
j
General Post Office, Sydney, New South Wales.
Actual photograph of track of a Goodyear Tyre over had roadway.
Victoria Bridge, Brisbane, Queensland.
Sydney-Brisbane Reliability Contest
Every winning car equipped with GOODYEAR TYRES
FOURTEEN out of the thirty cars,
which made up the field in the Sydney-
Brisbane Reliability Contest, were
equipped with Goodyear Tyres—slightly less
than 50 per cent. Yet, from these fourteen
cars came all the prize winners.
The contest was an absolute test,
including Reliability, Petrol Consumption
and Hill Climbing. The going and con-
ditions were certainly picked—in the severest
sense.
That Goodyear Tyres were on all the
winners is noteworthy. But, the safety and
service they afforded and the condition in
which they emerged from the gruelling trial, are
remarkable. No Goodyear user experienced
the slightest trouble from his tyres.
The tremendous traction of Goodyear
Tyres helped immensely in the securing of
the Petrol Consumption Prize. Goodyears
translate every atom of engine-power into
forward motion.
And it must be seen, readily, that a
tyre which provides such a gripping, forward
pull offers the utmost resistance laterally.
The Goodyear All-Weather Tread is as
certain as a mule’s foot, and practically
eliminates the risk of skid or side-slip.
One winning competitor says that 200
miles of the roads over which he passed were
the worst he had ever encountered. Yet he
says: “There was never a hint of skid or
slip. I ploughed at 50 miles an hour through
black soil roads—cut up by cattle hoofs—and
had no anxiety. There was not the least
suspicion of trouble.”
This same driver (who used GOOD-
YEAR HEAVY TOURIST TUBES in his
covers) says that, despite the arduous trip of
more than 1500 miles over very bad going,
his tyres did not lose one ounce of inflation.
Service Stations and Dealers Everywhere
VsK-


ruNioNli
PICTURE 1
THEATRES
As Old “GIB”
proclaims its majesty and might over all
the Mediterranean gateway, and dwarfs
everything else into insignificance, so do
UNION THEATRES, in like manner, stand
inviolate in the realm of Australian
motion-picture presentation.
Like their partner in simile, these cita-
dels of the Magic Shadow Shapes have
stood the test of time—-from embryo to
excelsis —until now their nation-wide
organisation has le/t the ranks of com-
petition to set the standard for all others.
Not content to rest complacently on
their hard-won laurels, the directors are
prosecuting a vigorous policy of develop-
ment in order that UNION THEATRE
ATTRACTIONS, presented in THE
UNION THEATRE WAY, may be on the
doorstep of every Australian home.
Like the mariner understands Gibraltar,
you will know the sign, “A Union Pic-
ture Theatre,” as the sentinel that guides
you aright to Superlative screen enter-
tainment.
UNION THEATRES ALL-AUSTRALIAN CIRCUIT,
Sydney., Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Tasmania and
throughout the Commonwealth.
Managing Directors:
Edwin Geach, W. A. Gibson,
Stuart F. Doyle.
;x:>v
~xi!
&
ifer
imlgW M
rawi
■? f ggf4toj|j
r I - jMs&saim&g&i
■ « jfCTfSg
EEBsi JlfSs&f
/ ißpt* a gfllipp
& %%:yr:
r»- r %nh£s 9
tgpj 'V* i&Bfc*£iS-~?$
■'M #£&r- **
.JS
MaKf
ss* s
■r....-',
sits
SSSF-i
*s*
r'i
5S
isase
bp
jar je
SSS?
iMii
ss&§£#
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Rann D.”: “Steele Rudd’s” reply to his
critics (B. 21/10/’2O) would have had some
force if he’d stopjped at the remark that the
Book of Job wasn’t written to boost boils.
It would be a sad day for the writer if the
chief thing expected of him in his books or
plays was an advertisement of Australia that
would make it look attractive to the English
immigrant. We all know the kind of writing
such a standard would encourage. Senti-
mental landscapes, Yankee gush about “lonely
spaces,” and a spice of romance in the shape
of an English jackeroo with! his back against
a gum-tree, defending himself successfully
against the onrush of half-a-dozen bush-
rapgers or myalls. There is a ready market
in England still for this kind of stuff, and
since we are largely dependent upon English
publishers and producers it is in their power
to impose a buckram Australia upon us, just
as New York entrepreneurs impose the blood-
thirsty cowboy upon Texas and New Mexico.
And it will be easier for them to do it if
Australians themselves mix literature and
drama up with advertisement, and let their
country get butchered to make a Brixton
Utopia. But “Steele Rudd” goes off the rails
when he persists that his crude sketches were
taken “from life.” Of course: where else
could they be taken from? A child might
say the same thing, though, about his first
clumsy drawings of a cow. And its old man
(or the Australian audience) might be proud
of its effort, and persist that it really was
NOT HIMSELF.
“What’s the matter with
the comedian to-night?”
"Why ?”
“He’s acting in such a fumy way.”
like Strawberry. “Steele Rudd” was a be-
ginner in a new field, and so he was given a
considerable amount of applause. But “The
Boss Cockie” has lifted the standard a
little, as far as drama is concerned, and he
can’t complain if people have become more
critical.
“B.”: I didn’t take the kid to the pitcher?
last week, as-I generally do. I bought a
Sunday Crime to feast my eyes on the adver-
tisements of “the latest releases” and
weakened on it. Consider these master-
pieces of the producer and the press-agent:
“The Confession”: Did he save his Brother from
the gallows?
“Kathleen Mavoumeen”: The Judge said to
Terence: “Prisoner, you are Sentenced to be Hung
by the Neck till you are DEAD.”
“A Daughter of Two Worlds”: Wanted by the
Police. The Midnight Prowler, the Gunman, the
Painted Woman, the Riff-Raff Grim Tragedy.
“The Valley of Doubt”: Drunken Fury against
Outraged Decency in a Struggle to the Death. A
Trusting Maid Betrayed by a Human Vulture.
“The False Road”: The Boy had been Doing
Time. The Girl was a member of the Old Gang.
She took the FALSE ROAD.
“The Hordern Mystery”: Who killed Hordern?
I haven’t the remotest idea who killed Hor-
dern, but if Hordern was a gloating Yankee
film-fabricator; or one of his slavish Aus-
tralian imitators, the futile persons who
riot in the banalities of U.S. slang and
wallow in the obscenities of U.S. crime, and
transfer the omnium gatherum to their own
clean Commonwealth, I should say it was
justifiable homicide. Anyhow, we —the
wife and I—didn’t take the kid to see “Who
Killed Hordern?” or any of the other crude
and bluggy productions. We stayed home
and read her some choice murder cases
instead.
“To Po”: In the ’eighties W. J. Holloway
used to do Ballarat at Christmas. Once he
billed “a real farmyard scene,” and turkeys,
ducks and geese looked for provender amongst
straw heaped on the stage; while Bill, the
hero, nobly apostrophised “me f-a-ather’s
a-h-ome.” But the farm strayed to the foot-
lights, where it
gravely surveyed
the delighted
audience. A gander
began to protest;
a rooster announced
his contempt for
the whole dam’
show; and the en-
tire feathered circle
joined in. At last
the united co., led
by Charlie Hollo-
way, the villain, in
top-boots and whip,
went for the farm-
yard. They couldn’t
drop the curtain,
for most of the
birds were foot-
lighting, and when
Charlie cracked his
whip there was
chaos. Amidst fran-
tic cheers Bill
chased a turkey-
gobbler, only to be
beaten on the post.
Finally a soubrette
rushed on with a
tin of grain, banged
the metal with a
stick, and called
“Chook! Chook!”
The birds bolted
for her, the cur-
George Gee as Kil-
martin in “The
Girl for the Boy,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
tain dropped, and, thereafter there was peace
in front, and the devil to pay behind. Next
night only the straw was staged.
“Gin Fiz”: There has been a general
shuffle among the theatrical pressmen of
Sydney. Archie Martin, recently Fuller’s
publicity man, has become editor of
Everyone’s Weekly. Gordon Conrad,
another young man from Adelaide, has gone
over from E. J. Carroll to Universal Films.
Cam Pratt crosses from Melbourne to Syd-
ney to take over J.C.W.’s publicity depart-
ment from Frank Marien, who is doing the
Tivoli press work in place of Lew Parks.
The latter, after seven years with Mcln-
tosh, is going into the theatrical business on
his own account, but will still edit the
Green Room, which he and E. J. Long have
acquired from Mclntosh. Long was one of
the A.I.F. cricketers.
From London; —
Matheson Lang is responsible for “The Wandering
Jew,” by Temple Thurston, at the New Theatre.
The play opens with the crucifixion (the Cross
moves past the window on the way to Calvary), and
then the Jew is shown wandering for 1600
years. Some of the critics have taken the play
seriously, but it seems to the writer a melodramatic
affair, constructed on the lines of a moving-picture
drama and ending in the death of the Jew at a stake
of the Inquisition, entirely surrounded by “property”
fire and bathed in limelight. Another new produc-
tion, “The Daisy,” of Hungarian origin, exploits the
spiritualistic craze. I missed the most entertaining
of recent first nights, “The Mayflower; a Play of
the Pilgrim Fathers,” which was put on at the
Surrey Theatre. On the opening night the Pil-
grims’ boat collapsed, sending agitated daddas
sprawling all over the stage. The Daily Express
records: “No pancake ever fell flatter than this
play.” Helena and Harley Granville Barker have
taken to translating Spanish plays, and two are on
view. One, “The Bonds of Interest,” is heavy-
footed ; the other, “The Romantic Young Lady,” is
a brightly-written comedy which is drawing in the
West End. Pollie Emery has scored a hit as the
amorous slavey in “A Pair of Sixes,” one of the
dreariest comedies ever staged by the Firm in
Australia, and which has been justly slated here.
Sara Allgood is back at the Manchester Gaiety in a
new Irish drama, “The White-headed Boy”; Fred
Leslie is hailed by the Daily Mail as “lightest of
light comedians, most airy of dancers and a fellow
of infinite jest” for his performance in a musical
version of “A Night Out,” which is threatened with
a long run; and A. S. Homewood, who was in Aus-
tralia with the Flemming-Day co. (he played the
hero in “The Morals of Marcus” and the villain in
“The Mummy and the Humming Bird”), has made
his bow as a novelist, with “Jimpy,” which is
worth reading.
Bob Inman, who is the Banished Duke in
Allan Wilkie’s Version of “As You Like It,”
played Touchstone in the Bill Holloway pro-
duction from which the late Essie Jenyns
retired to get married.
After inducing J. D. O’Hara, Ethel Mor-
rison, Allan Wilkie, Robert Greig and Fred
.Esmelton to hit back at Irvine, C.J., for
criticising the morals of the mummers, or
some of them, the Argus took the quintette
to task for side-stepping the issue. Still,
Bob Greig scored heavily enough when he
reminded the knighted Mackinnon that
George V. had conferred the same kind of
title on actors.
“Private Boxer”: Conan Doyle seems to
have given up play Writing, though there
must be a drama or two in the subject he has
latterly interested himself in. His name
was frequently on Australian bills a few
years back. There was “Sherlock Holmes,”
of course; but William Gillette, the
Amurkan actor-dramatist, did the hack-work
necessary for that, taking Doyle’s characters
and inventing the story. Conan, solus, was
responsible for “The House of Temperley,”
founded on his “Rodney Stone,” in which
Harcourt Beatty battered a professional,
pug in the prize-fighting scene and took a
call “all bluggy.” “The Speckled Band,”
another adaptation, a creepy yarn of a
cracked Professor and his pet snake, didn’t
last long—the principal member of the cast,
the snake, died, or struck, or something.
But Gaston Mervale’s showing as the rep-
tile’s proprietor was a vivid bit of work.
The most successful of Doyle’s attempts was
“The Story of Waterloo,” which gave a big
chance to Henry Irving to score in the very
fat “character” part of the old veteran.
Son H.B. took the one-acter over with his
late father’s effects and made good use of it,
but his ancient Brewster was but an echo
of Dad’s. Julius Knight went on for the
part in Sydney—any fat part attracted
Julius. But in this case the fat was in
the fire.
“Old Pot”: Edwin Brett, who returns to
Australia for the J.C.W. panto, was the
original Mr. Hook in the Sydney production
of “Miss Hook of Holland” at the Criterion
about 12 years ago. He is an all-round actor
who began at the old Sadler’s Wells Theatre,
London, in melodrama, subsequently going
to the Theatre Royal, Woolwich, where he
played everything, from Eton boys to heavies;
and later he was with van Biene, the ’cellist
who played “The Broken Melody.” His
wife, Emmeline Orford, played Mina in
“Miss Hook,” and made a big hit.
“Norbell”: Like “Old Pot” (B. 4/11/’2O)
I saw the original Australian production
of “The Mikado” in ’B5, and many subse-
quent revivals. Also, I went on Cup night
to see it once again at Melbourne Majesty’s.
What hit me hardest was that Charles
Walenn (Ko-Ko) and Albert Kavanagh
(Pooh-Bah), who a_re supposed to have been
rigidly ' trained under the master’s eye in
the Savoy chorus, were quite out of the
picture, and took all sorts of unedifying liber-
ties that Vernon and Woodfield of old would
have scorned. Walenn may have acted like
a “cheap tailor,” but his fooling was pain-
fully reminiscent of the cheap “comic,”
whilst Kavanagh made that “haughty •youth”
Pooh-Bah a senile dodderer. During the
evening Walenn gave many of his famous
imitations of a kookaburra’s laugh; he ipter-
polated several “wow-wows,” and other
foreign phrases; be tried again and again
to restrain his big toe, which persisted in
sticking up; and once he jumped on the
back of the haughty and exclusive Pooh-
Bah, and clung there like a monkey, whilst
that arrogant officer placidly endured the
indignity. Walenn is tedious also in illus-
trating the obvidus. He elaborately wipes
his forehead to indicate the cold perspira-
tion which bespangled the brow of the little
tom-tit, and he even drew an imaginary
cartoon in the air to suggest Katisha’s “cari-
cature of a face.” As for the stolid Pooh-
Bah, he got his biggest laugh by rolling
heavily over the prone bodies of Pitti-Sing
and Ko-Ko as they grovelled before the
Mikado. Appreciation of the subtleties of
Gilbertian satire seems to be lacking all
through.
“M.C.T.” (London) : “Dad” Bailey’s
whiskers waved a triumphant farewell to an
exultant chorus of coo-ees on the last night
of “On Our Selection” at the Lyric. A short
season or none was the alternative forced on
the Australian. The movie people are snap-
ping up many of London’s lesser theatres,
and crowding out the “legitimate” companies.
So Bailey had to seize the Lyric in the off
season—August and part of September—
when the average Cockney struggles to share
the uncertain favors of seaside landladies
and the certain discomforts of their frowsy
“THE GREAT ADVENTURE,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Graham Browne as Harn Carve and
K. Stephenson as Cyrus Carve.
menageries. Besides, as Dad remarked,
“short seasons are no good to overseas man-
agers in London.” The English public is sus-
picious of anything so new as an Australian
paddock (on the stage), and samples it
cautiously. Ultimately it brings its Best Girl
or its mother-in-law. But it takes time.
Dad was coming on with a mild rush
when he had to take off his whiskers and
get out. He had the luck to secure pretty
Eva Guildford Quinn (Mrs. Graham Robert-
son ) for the part of Kate. The Victorian girl
gave up the footlights for the domestic fen-
der a few years ago, and only answers a
special coo-ee to return.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Charles Haddon
Chambers, dramatic author, has become a
benedict. The bride is Pepita Bobadilla,
a pretty South American actress, aged 28.
The marriage took place in a registry office.
The ’groom, born at Stanmore, Sydney, in
1860, was the son of an Ulsterman in the
N. S. Wales Civil Service, and at least one
member of the family still lives in these
parts. A Fort-street schoolboy, “Charley”
Chambers became a civil servant at 15 and
a stockrider two years later. He went to
Britain in 1880, and shortly afterwards
started off on his very successful career as
writer and dramatist.
Finkelstein, of the Wondergraph, in Adel-
aide, has put through his long-contemplated
plan for selling out to the Paramount, which
will take over the Hindley-street house of
the co., the new place in Rundle-street just
started, and several suburban houses. The
price is said to be a quarter of a million.
Finkelstein, who was the Wondergraph’s
founder, will remain a director, but give
up management.
Moses Baritz, from Manchester: —
The winter musical season has begun, and the
importance of Thomas Quinlan visibly increases.
Besides engaging “the world’s most eminent artists”
Thomas is “bringing out” some new material, not-
ably Mile. Chemet,- a violinist, and Mostyn Thomas,
a coalminer from South Wales and a wonderful
baritone. Also, the Australian Laurie Kennedy is
to appear with John Mac Cormack in April under
his management. Manchester will be able to hear
the series of five concerts for 11s. Bd. Of course
it can pay more —as much, in fact, as three guineas.
Meantime, a reorganised Beecham Opera Co. com-
menced a provincial tour at Birmingham on Sept.
27, with “Aida” as the opening opera. W. Arthur
Lomas, of Manchester, is arranging the business, and
each large town is expected to subscribe several
thousand pounds for investment in the company,
no single person to be allowed more than £250
worth of shares. Beecham has no financial interest
in the co. He, Percy Pitt and the Australian genius
Aylmer Buesst will be the conductors.
A few days ago I .had the pleasure of a few
minutes’ conversation With Rosina Buckman and
her tenor husband, Maurice D’Oisly. They have
scarcely a vacant date this winter. Their manager
is Powell, who is Quinlan’s only rival in the con-
cert field.
I was present at the brass-band contest at Man-
chester on Sept. 6. The test piece, an arrangement
of Verdi’s “I Lombardi,” was a marvel of tone.
Tens of thousands of people travelled to Belle Vue
to listen to the same pieces played 18 times. The
Besses o’ th’ Barn won, and Wingate’s Temperance
Prize Band was placed second, but I should have
called it a dead heat. Besses’ new conductor is a
very young man, and considering that he took charge
only about two weeks before the contest he did
wonders. His predecessor was Alec Owen, who
visited Australia with the Besses. Owen died at
the end of July.
THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Within the past few days there has spread a
report that a ghost had appeared at an empty house
in Nicholson-streot, Abbotsford, and people have been
flocking to the locality at night, to sec it. On Tues-
day night and last night four police constables were
employed in Nicholson-street “moving on” the crowds
of ghost seekers, who numbered, it is estimated, be-
tween 400 and 500.” —Melbourne thrill.
I met old Stormer down in Abbotsford,
“Do you, too, hold the watch to-night?” said I,
“This apparition surely can’t afford
You any entertainment. By the bye,
The kind of spirit we affect, old cock,
Can’t be invoked—it’s after Six o’clock.”
The faded actor smiled a frosty smile.
“These things,” he said, "are far beyond our ken;
This spook may be some showman’s simple wile,
And yet—who knows? Perchance ’twill walk
again!
And I’d gO gladly many miles to see
A ghost who’d walk with regularity!”
Just then “Move on there 1” growled a friendly Hop,
“The ghost is off this evening,” he avowed.
“Do you believe in it?” I asked the cop.
“Of course I don’t. And neither does this crowd 1
The ghost is not the draw,” explained the John;
“The empty house is the phenomenon!”
VICTORIA.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


To PLPMBERS and BBILDEBS
DO YOU take a pride in your workmanship? DO YOU wish to maintain
the reputation of always doing a FIRST-CLASS JOB? In short—DO YOU
WANT JO SATISFY YOURSELVES AND YOUR CUSTOMERS?
IF SO
USE J r G F MALLEABLE FITTINGS
FOR GAS, WATER, AIR and STEAM
They are Equalled by no other Malleable Fitting on the Market.
ASK THE USERS!
Every Fitting Branded
CF+
Is Guaranteed.
Every Fitting Branded
■fCF4
Is Guaranteed.
All -f- G F + Fittings arc Made from Best English Iron.
All -|- G F -]- Fittings are Tested and Guaranteed to 3001 b. Steam Pressure.
AH -]- G F H- Fittings are Flawless, Thread Perfect and Parallel.
A FEW BIG USERS for Gas, Water and Steam Works
WATER WORKS DEPARTMENT, ADELAIDE.
BROKEN HILL MINES.
BREWERIES, FLOUR MILLS, etc.
LEADING PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALIAN GAS COMPANY, SYDNEY.
COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY (at all mills).
BROKEN HILL STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE.
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS.
ALL WATER AND SEWERAGE BOARDS.
GOVERNMENT DOCKYARDS.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENTS.
SYDNEY HARBOR TRUST.
Big Stocks of all Sizes always on hand.
Write for —|— G F —J— Illustrated List to
William Adams & Company Limited,
SOLE AGENTS:
SYDNEY: 173-175 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE: 521-523 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33-35 King Street.
ADELAIDE: 96<-98 Currie Street,
NEWCASTLE: Howard Smith Chambers, Watt St.
* • .. -
Tasmanian Representative: R. Foster, 31a Cameron Street, Launceston.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES A eO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents i RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WtilTTYf
MAKER>|;
. -v:
y
ms
Ta
%
A SPIRIT OF
HIGH MEDICINAL VALUE
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
All Hotels & Licensed Grocers
%
GUARANTEED
PURE
DISTILLED FROM
FINEST
AUSTRALIAN
GRAIN
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
While he was making one in a grand
parade in the birdcage before the Cup, the fine
appearance of Poitrel was generally remarked. It
was also remarked that he had nothing “little” about
him. Trained to the hour Poitrel looked quite equal
to carrying even a bigger weight than Kennaquhair,
for there was a somewhat broken-hearted appearance
about the larger animal, as though the mete presence of
Poitrel among his friends in the birdcage had set him
thinking of defeat. Erasmus had a gloss on his coat,
and, though not so handsome as Strathredole, looked
much more wound up than Salitros, the Derby
winner, whose round barrel gives him a compara-
tively jolly appearance, while his washy chestnut
coat suggests .want of character. Syce Knight, a
poor, weary walker for a three-year-old, gave one
the impression of being as much overdone as Salitros
was underdone, and' even beautifully conditioned
Eurythmic seemed a trifle out of sorts. Judging by
his performance in the race he was a little past his
pink, or else he is a poor fighter after going a mile
and a half. Undoubtedly Eurythmic looked like the
winner when he ran into second place in the straight,
behind Erasmus. But he was then all out, it
seemed. The odd thing to the writer was that Ecarte
ran into seventh place at the finish, in front of others
who had, at one time or other, shown a bolder front.
For Ecarte is a “roarer,” and no animal afflicted with
his complaint can be expected to last out two miles
in a fast-run race, or a slow-run race, where the com-
pany is good.
* * * *
W. Kelso’s four-year-old Piastre gelding
Millieme (8 to 1) won the £2OOO Williamstown Cup
after a desperate race up the straight with the
Adelaide horse Lord Retay, Nautical and Kingbier
dead-heating for third money. The winner is a
game and honest bit of stuff, but his soundness has
been questionable since he broke a blood-vessel in
a w.f.a. race with Poitrel and Kennaquhair, and he
cannot be backed with confidence. He is trained on
al fresco lines, being rugged and turned out at night.
After the mishap at Easter Kelso thought of laying
him aside for a year or two, but put him in training
at the earnest request of his son Willie, who looks
after the horse himself.
* » * *
“Fax”: It was in the birdcage at Flem-
ington after the Cup, and the handsome chestnut,
looking fairly fresh and lively, was getting his rub
down in the centre of a circle of admirers. “Look
at ’im! Look at ’im!” shouted a red-faced man who
had just poked his countenance into the outer circle
—“ ’e could have carried another 10 stone without
getting beat.” “Yes,” remarked his companion;
“but that isn’t Poitrel—that’s Eurythmic.”
* * •* *
“Sentimental Punter”: I am devastated to
read that the books have had “a bad race” once
again over the Melbourne Cup. For weeks and
weeks, it appears, the shrewd public backed Poitrel,
and when it duly won “no horse —not even Carbine —
took- more money out of the ring.” And yet,
curiously enough, I had my ss. on Eurythmic. It
is true that just before the race not one but several
soon-to-be-ruined members of the ring offered to lay
me 10 to 1 Poitrpl, but I stayed my hand. So if
the books are really broke no one can say it’s my
fault.
* * * *
On Derby Day, at the Bananaland Turf
Club’s Summer Meeting, only two favorites acted
up to expectations in the seven races. Lillyman
was wafted over the border to steer Sydney Damsel
in the Spring Stakes (lm. If., w.f.a.). Molly’s
Robe also starfed. The two ladies, however, began
to fade away near the eight-furlong post, and For-My-
Lady caused rejoicing in Israel. Seremist won the
Derby handsomely, and is evidently a good colt, judg-
ing by the time for the mile and a half —2min. 37sec.
The M.l* Cup run at Christchurch was
won by Oratress, a (laughter of Demosthenes; an-
other of the same sex, Imaribbon (Gay Spark-
Grey Ribbon) was second. In the Welcome Stakes
for two-year-olds, Mermin scored another win over
those of his own age. At Auckland Some Boy 11.
(Cyrus—The Tart), who was thought last season to
have finished racing, was a head behindl Volo, a
smart gelding by Husbandman, in the Mitehelson
Cup (Hm.). The Great Northern Guineas went to
Listowel by Absurd, and the Welcome Stakes for
two-year-olds was a dead heat between Toa Taua
and Loyal Irish.
* e * *
Dead at G 6, after nearly half a century at
Randwick, Tom Pay ten, known ail over Australia
as one of the most successful trainers in the Common-
wealth. His heart had been failing for about a
year and he passed out smoking a cigar and reading
a newspaper. Amongst the mighty horses that went
through his hands were Abercorn, Martini-Henry and
Nordenfeldt. For many years he trained for James
White, and the association loft him fairly affluent
while still young. In later times the tall, silent old
man trained for Agar Wynne, Adrian Knox (until
he became Chief Justice), Colin Stephen (chairman
of the A.J.C.) and Pat Osborne. He was born near
Picton (N.S.W.) and as a youth was head lad for
Mick Fenelly, to whom James White was accustomed
to send his nags for education.
* * * *
Victorian owners came off badly in the
distribution of prizes at the Cup meeting. Cup,
Derby and two other rich w.f.a. events left the State,
and in three cases the second money also fell to
invaders. The Maribyrnong and Cantala Stakes were
Victoria’s biggest wins.
* * * *
When the winners of the two Derbies and
two Cups lined up for the C. B. Fisher Plate last
Saturday, it seemed as good as certain that the pace
would be hot from the start. But the machine which
so often fails was not equal to getting the three
horses away together. Salitros was, in the old way
of speaking, left at the post, and Poitrel and
Eurythmic went crawling along without the three-
year-old. When Salitros had filled in the dividing
gap he didn’t rush to the front, but waited on
Eurythmic, who was waiting on Poitrel. When half
the distance had been covered Salitros rushed to the
front to make a six-furlong sprint of it, and the
rest of the race was exciting. The three were
running about level when Eurythmic stole to the
fore, in his usual way, and stayed there. He was
too fast for Poitrel by three-quarters of a length,
whilst Salitros—who. after all, had covered more
ground in a given time than the other two—was a
length behind Poitrel. The form between til* two
Cup winners was in strict accordance with their
running in the Melbourne Stakes, but, although
Eurythmic had thus in a
measure reasserted him-
self as boss cocky over his
own distance, it didn’t
prove that the Westralian
champion was the nag ht
had been when he won
the Caulfield Cup, and
previously. There seems
no reasonable doubt that
something less than the
best was seen of Eur.vth-
mic in the Melbourne Cup,
or even in the Melbourne
Stakes on the Saturday.
He had lightened a little,
like Night Watch after
the Caulfield Cup last
year. Probably Poitrel
could just about have
given him the 101 b. and a
beating over two miles,
under any circumstances,
but the fact remains that
trainer Holt had misgiv-
ings about Eurythmic on
the morning of Melbourne
Cup, nor was he backed
with great confidence for
the C. B. Fisher Plate.
E. LEE STEERE,
owner of Eurythmic
and Chairman of the
W.A. Turf Club.
Makepeace, who top-scored with 117 (out
of 276 for eight wickets) in the English Xl’s opening
match against Westralia, made 1762 last year in Eng-
lish county cricket: he had 42 completed innings
(average 41.95), with 152 as the highest score. He
is a hard-hitting batsman and makes light of the
weight of 38 summers. J. B. Hobbs —who was here with
the 1907-8 and 1911-12 teams—piled up 63, includ-
ing a sixer off Christian. Hobbs is also among the
elder brethren, and will be 38 on December 16.
Nuggety E. H. Hendren was the only other batsman
to help alone- the score with 60. Hendren swings
the bat heartily, and uses his feet well. He is the
batsman to make the bowling look simple and lighten
the job for those who follow. He will have a 31st
birthday on February 5. For Westralia, H. Nurse,
a medium-paced bowler who does best when fresh,
took five for 82 ; and all-rounder A. Christian’s bag
was three for 95. Westralia’s reply was 120 for
seven wickets.
* * * *
An impression from W.A.: —
Johnny Hobbs is still the most taking of English
cricketers. Groperland could not find words to
express its respect for his artistry. Of the new-
comers Hendren, who topped the averages in Eng-
land last season, is likely to make a lot of runs
in Australia. In his front-of-the-wicket strokes he
recalls Syd Gregory. Makepeace is of the stodgy,
wait-for-the-loose-one order. He certainly hits
that one hard enough. There is plenty of variety
about the Englishmen’s attack, but they have no
Barnes or Foster to break up a side. Howell,
their “fast” bowler, is not fast judged by the stand-
ard of Jones or Richardson, or even Tibby Cotter.
He has plenty of vim and can turn one occasionally ;
but our cracks will paste him on hard, true wickets.
Parkin mixes ’em well, and disguises the coming
pace cleverly. Fender has the wrong ’un in his
box of tricks, but he looks as if he would pitch up
a lot of loose stuff even when in form. Wadding-
ton takes a run from away out on the leg side, and
his habit of suddenly appearing from behind the
umpire is a bit disconcerting. Wilfred Rhodes
retains his accuracy of length and beautifully easy
actton, but on plumb wickets he should be harm-
less to the batsman who doesn’t take undue risks.
And Douglas, though he gets some spin, is not
much more than useful, It looks a solid fielding
side, with Hobbs still one of the best mid-offs in
the world. Little Strudwick is a fine ’keeper, safe
and undemonstrative. Despite the evidence of their
birth certificates, the visitors look a young lot.
Douglas, captaiu of the English XI,
claims —not quite seriously perhaps—that the Mary-
lebone Club has “just sent out a practice side this
year,” and that the ashes, having been won here
by England in 1912-13, can only be regained by an
Australian team winning over there. llis £>t are
on the small side. Of the newcomers, Wilson and
Makepeace are lightweights, Hendren and Howell
nuggety. Douglas has acquired a handsome wife
and a more genial manner. His father and mother
are in the party, too. Of the other amateurs Fender
is a London merchant, long, lean and heavily-
moustached, something of the Spofforth type. The
schoolmaster Wilson is a delicate-looking light com-
edian, whose speechmaking is highly successful. He
brought down the house on the goldfields by com-
paring the Mayors of Kalgoorlie and Boulder to the
Biblical kings Ahab and Jehoshaphat, and in Adel-
aide by saying that, on the inter-State train journey,
their reception was so warm that “Mayors sprang
up like cucumbers.”
Westralia’s First XI v. Next Best pro-
duced a fine batting effort by H. Rowe, who rattled
up 121 (out of 400) in 2hr, Bmin. But, by the luck
of cricket, he was out for nil v. the English
XI. C. Robinson (Subiaeo) had the fine average of
six for 97 for the Next Best. The latter’s score
was 204 —-a defeat by 196 runs. R. Blundell, coming
on late in the innings,' took three for nine, and H.
Nurse’s bag was two for 27.
Except that fast bowler E. A. McDonald
takes the place of Ironmonger, Victoria will rely on
the team that defeated S. Australia to take the
creases v. England. McDonald’s efforts this year
have been mediocre: Still he is in good fettle, and
will make more serious opposition than the medium
and slow-bowling which confronted the visitors in
the previous matches and was. generously knocked
about. McDonald’s Sheffield Shield effort last year
was 12 for 26.41; also, he topped Fitz.roy in pennant
matches with 35 wickets averaging 17.65.
O’Keefe and W. L. Trenerry got among
the runs again for Paddington v. Gordon in the
fourth round of Sydney grade cricket which began
on Saturday, and the colt Wells, who showed sueh
promise last season, put together a finished 60.
Gordon’s bowling was made even weaker than usual
by Macartney’s inability to bowl more than a very
few overs. Asher put up a useful performance for
Sydney against Petersham. Keeping an excellent
length, and backed by an alert field, he got 4 wickets
for 65; then, opening Sydney’s innings, he was 39
(not out) when stumps were drawn. Jack Gregory
got three wickets cheaply, but his bowling was
erratic. ’Varsity always furnishes a sensation. This
time their ’keeper, Gostelow, was- responsible for
the downfall of five Boneyarders—three caught and
two stumped. For Waverley Hendry and Kippax
were the only batsmen to negotiate Kendall and
Garner, who got assistance from the wicket,
though little from the field. Arnott (4 for 18)
procured Glebe’s downfall on a” batsman’s wicket.
Kelleway, with 65 (n. 0.), was the one redeeming
feature. Bossley, the old T.K.S. boy, and Fitzgibbon
kept all the Middle Harbor batsmen exeent Eric
Bull quiet. Bull had one of his rare days out, and
banged up 82. Norths resisted feebly against Bal-
main. McElhone, up from the seconds, got '37, and
Hall and Pratten were his only supporters. Grif-
fiths, the ex-Bananalander, turned out with Bal-
main, and his three wickets were rather costly for
club cricket.
Brown (135) and Keating (112) helped
’Wood to a win by 211 over Essendon in Melbourne
on Saturday. Both bats played confidently, adding
204 for the second wicket. The only bowler who
troubled them was Mullett (5 for 67). P’ran just
sneaked home with a first-hits victory by nine over
Carlton. Neither side showed any batting enter-
prise, but the P’ran bowler, Grimmett, did well
(7 for 59). Grimmett will soon be a candidate for
the State eleven. East, who declared closed with
9 for 247 against Melbourne’s 122, tried hard for
an outright win, but at the finish Melbourne were
138 with three sticks to go ; so East had to be con-
tent with a first-innings majority of 125. St. Kilda
knocked off with 9 for 267, and South could only
answer with 179. Northcote were 60 to the good
against Richmond (191), Hartkopf, who rattled up
154 for .’Cote on the previous Saturday, taking the
bowling honors with 5 for 54. University had no
difficulty *in beating North by 99. Jorgensen (67)
and L. Freemantle (62) were the students’ best per-
formers ; W. Johnston (6 for 74) headed North’s
attack.
* * * *
The S. Aus. team found the bowling of the
Englishman Parkin (8 for 55) almost unplayable
in their first knock last week. V. Richardson was
the only man who made a stand. When the visitors
went in the wicket had improved, apd 512 was
amassed by unsensational play. Smith, the slow
bowler, who got all five of the English wickets that
fell before their declaration, took a good deal
of punishment, but he got there in the end.
The Australians fielded
better than the visi-
tors, although Strud-
wick, their ’keeper,
was admirable, especi-
ally in taking Woolley
on the leg and antici-
pating Parkin’s ever-
changing ball. Pellew
played some pretty
cricket for his <ii
when S. Aus. went in
again, determined to
stave off the innings
defeat. The be-spec-
tacled A. Richardson
joined him after the
fall of the second
wicket, and hit up a
sensational century. P.
liundell made a taking
75 after beginning
weakly.
J. W. HEARNE,
ore of the English
stars of the cricket
match in Adelaide.
The R.P.A. Yacht Club, after an interval
of six years, again decided the Marshall Plate handi-
cap last Saturday in Sydney Harbor. Seven com-
peted. Aoina had llmin. start from Chinnery’s old
craft Bona on the mark of honor. She finished with
Stnin. 15see. to spare from Langley’s Magic (sailed
by Arthur Stevens, brother to Stan), which in turn
beat E. F. Heath’s Yeulba by lmin. 50 sec. There
was not nearly enough weight in the nor’-easter to
suit Bona, which gained lmin. 53 sec. on Stan
Stevens’s charge.
Sydney Flying Squadron’s 18ft. champion-
ship was decided in a light nor’-easter, with a
lot of east in it at times. It was during one of
these easterly slunts that Mascotte, piloted by YV.
C. Duncan, got a jig on the fleet, was’ first
to ease sheets at the light, and was never
seen afterwards. Duncan did not avail himself of
a ringtail. Yet his cousin (W.J.), in Kismet, with
everything aloft, including an outsize ringtail, with
topsail-head spinnaker, ballooner, topsail and other
incentives, actually lost ground, and the pride of
Double Bay landed home a winner with 2Jmin. to
spare from last year’s champion, which led Arline
by lmin., followed by Pastime, 2min. Three
steamers with between two and three thousand
enthusiasts aboard followed the racing.
* * * *
Don Taylor’s Triton had her second vic-
tory this season on Saturday, when from scratch,
conceding the limit boat Sundowner 16min., she
won Sydney amateurs’ ocean race. She finished
7min. 40sec. ahead of Waitangi (11. L. Carter), who
was lmin. 42sec. better than Itana (R. 11. C.
Down). Taylor sailed his charge superbly, and
rounding the mark off South Reef ahead of the field,
sent extra drapery aloft, and was never afterwards
headed.
* * * *
Billy Longworth is making a serious
■effort to “come back.” On Saturday he did 100yds.
in 60 4-ssec.—the best time this year in Sydney
club swimming.
Pat J. English, who died at Sydney last
week, won the Australasian high jump in 1897 (sft.
7|in.), 1899 (sft. Sin.) and 1904 (sft,. 7in.) ; and
the running broad jump (21ft. 91in.) in 1899. The
last was the local record till E. Southee did 22ft.
llin. in 1911. English also won the 161 b. shot putt
(37ft. 9in.) in 1897. Heart disease sent him west.
Legs run in families. Two schoolboys
who have been .winning races for the glory of their
respective Melbourne public-schools are Blakes, sons
of a family of pedestrians that produced two or three
ten-mile champions. George Blake, who is keeping
up the end of the Christian Brothers’ School, East
St. Kilda, is the son of Harry Blake, a prominent
amateur of a few years back, and the other winning
Blake is the offspring of Tom Blake, an ex-ten-mile
champion of the State. The young of the Blakes all
run before they can walk.
*** ‘ *
Harry Stone, the step-dancing welter from
the U.S.A., re-appeared at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night, his partner being Francis Charles, of the
lately-arrived French string. Stone has learnt one
or two fresh movements since he was here last, and
the Frenchman found his turn baffling. However, he
hit the prancing Hebrew hard enough and often
enough to earn a decision at the end of 20 rounds
from Joe Wallis, M.C. Stone weighed 9st. 121 b., and
his vis-a-vis was 141 b. heavier.
* * * *
Jim Anderson’s defection from N.S.W. ten-
nis team v. Victoria was a matter of the doctor’s
orders, and unless his health improves he will also
be unavailable for the Davis Cup matches. The
promising youth, S. H. Henderson, who partnered
N. M. Gregg in the recent Metropolitan (Sydney)
championships, takes the spare, racket. The Victorian
team is particularly strong, and the half-dozen will
be chosen from Brookes, Patterson, Hawkes, O’Hara
Wood, Fitchett, Heath and Wertheim.
* * * *
Two hundred birds from the best strains
in the Commonwealth faced shotguns, hawks and
cross-winds in the Charleville-to-Sydney aerial Derby
last week. Only six found the lofts in the first three
days. The winner was a blue-checkered hen owned
by Harry Coller, which did the 600 miles in 33hrs.
24min., including an overnight rest. Harold Sher-
vey’s rep. followed lhr. 26min. later, and Archie
Robinsbn’s was clocked two hours afterwards.
The Sydney-Brisbane motor-car reliability
contest was an excellent advt. for the petrol-driven
conveyance. Of 39 entrants only eight fell by
the wayside. The trial was decided on reliability,
petrol consumption and two hill climbs ; and P. A.
Mclntosh (Buick) 686 points, W. Stuart (Buick)
680, and Alick McNeil (Fiat) filled the places.
Mclntosh had the maximum points in petrol con-
sumption ; Boyd Edkins (Vauxhall) gained maximum
points in both hill-climbs; and in the reliability trial
10 cars didn’t lose a point. Goodyear tyres helped
the winning cars along.
THE SPORTING EXPERT GOES INTO
TRAINING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dancing is the most popular evening pastime in
Young (N.S.W.), so when Rev. A. E. Rutland de-
livered a stern denunciation of dancing in a sermon
in the Methodist Church he aroused interest. ‘I have,’
he said, ‘been moved to make a thorough investiga-
tion of so-called sports. I have seen what “Snowy”
Baker has to show, I have a first-hand knowledge of
the theatre, the dance-hall, and practically every
place of popular amusement but the racecourse.
If) this matter my experience is still lacking.’ ” —Sun.
■ i' Came a call to Pastor Putland.
! There is wickedness in Sydney;
Sin is rife at Snowy Baker’s ;
1 Rifer still among the jazzers;
And it flourishes at leg-shows.
Gird yourself about with virtue,
And, abandoning the bun-feast,
And the Sabbath-scholars’ picnic,
Go and find out all about it.
Up rose Pastor Putland briskly
Jettisoned his soup-plate headgear,
And his coat of sable broadcloth,
Donned instead a loud check costume
And a straw at six-and-ninepence,
And commingled with the boxers.
There, while oaths and screams resounded,
And while blood and teeth were flying
Sat the holy man and shuddered.
People tried to make him lay them
Odds concerning the contestants,
Misconceiving his profession,
But he waved them from his presence.
Hardly waiting for the knock-out,
He would grab a dinner-jacket;
And with burning disapproval
Watch the gambols of the chorus;
Watch them, gloomily debating
Why in figure, face and manner
They were all so strangely different
From the ladies of his choir.
Musing thus his taxi brought him
To a fashionable jazz-hall,
Where in postures worse than shameless
Couples slid about together.
Ah! the anguish that he suffered
As he heard the call of Duty,
Duty clamant, stern, remorseless,
Crying “Putland, do not shirk it,
Take the floor with yonder vampire!”
He is shortly going racing.
Both the ponies and the horses
Will be earnestly considered,
And the Ring and what transpires there,
And the doings on the Outer.
What with one thing and another
He may put in years on duty.
For his watchword is “Be thorough!”
And the world is full of evil.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


AFRAID TO TAKE YOUR PART?
It is not so much the fear of physical
pain or injury, but the fear of being
made look cheap and foolish, that
causes many a man to swallow an
insult which he knows in himself
should be resented in a manly way.
Lack of Boxing knowledge makes him
a coward. Confidence in his own
ability would create courage.
I Teach
Boxing by Post
I teach you every move in the game—not only the
orthodox “hits” and “stops,” but many uncommon
punches, etc., that I have learned by personal
experience and long association with the fistic cham-
pions. You learn to meet any and every class of
opponent with confidence, from a “rusher” to a
skilled boxer like you will become yourself. My
instructions are so clear ancl well-defined that they
are easily mastered by any average person. My per-
sonal advice on all matters connected with Boxing is
always at your disposal.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and send it to me, with three stamps to cover
postage, and I will send you a copy of my interest-
ing booklet, “Scientific Boxing in the Home,” which
tells all about my methods, fees, etc.
in
§mm
k
■m
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy ”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
366 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY
DON’T TAKE
LUBRICATION
RISKS. USE
U/nCEFIELD
MOTOR. OIL
British and Best.
C.C. Wakefield 8 Co. Ltd.
Sydney and London.
esse
V- - --C-
I
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the Wor 1 d*
S 4' *
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL HE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
HEADACHE
and
SORE
THROAT
YOU FEEL
TOO ILL
TO GET
UP-BUT
there’s an old and tested remedy which
will make you feel better immediately
and will cure you absolutely in two
days. When you w r ake up with a head-
ache and sore throat —
DON’T BE ALARMED! FEND OFF THAT
ATTACK OF ’FLU BY TAKING
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE.
Greathead’s is sold in generous-sized bottles, and one bottle is generally more than
t 0 cure the most obstinate cold. It will also cure tonsilitis, bronchitis,
mnuenza, sore throat and quinsy. Never be without a bottle of Greathead’s.
YOUR CHEMIST AND GROCER SELL IT!
AN EXCEPTIONAL SHIPMENT OF.
THE CELEBRATED
“OMEGA”
Hair Clippers
Spare plates to cut three different lengths included.
12/6 per set. P°s* a g e 6d - extra.
A. A. MARKS, LIMITED,
Importers of Tobaccos, Cigars and Cigarettes, '
Head Office: 376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
In this iron the
heating device is of
particular strength and
heating quality. The “Spot”
iron' executes beautiful work,
even oh the most delicate fabrics,
und is superior to others at higher
prices.
A perfect boon during the summer months—ready
to use in a minute, and fits any lamp socket.
THE SPOT
SPOT ELECTRIC
IRON
3 51-
including cord
and fitting.
All Electricians & Ironmongers.
Wholesale:
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY. LTD.,
172-176 William Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 3T5 George Street.
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
1
&
8-H.P. UNIT PLANT
with reverse gear on same bed. Perfect alignment guaranteed. The
ideal engine for small speed boats. Speed record up to date is 21£
miles per hour, driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in. Hand V-Bottom boat,
turning a 16in. x 20in. propeller.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK
of Caille Outboard and “Bantam” (Inboard) motors; also 1-. 2- and
4-cylinder types from. 2 to 30 h.p., for light or heavy duty.
All Engines Fitted with High-Tension Ignition.
Catalogues and full particulars of all types post free from
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS.
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street. Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—— << Brosbenson. ,,
C 385


SUEDE-FINISHED
RIDING TROUSERS, 21/-
RTl —Fawn or Olive Suede - finished Drill
Riding Trousers. Price, 21/-
RT2 —Bush Twill Riding Trousers, in fawn,
drab, and dark olive; also a neat herringbone
pattern in medium olive shade. Price, 21/-
RT3 —Extra Strong Khaki Drill Trousers, ser-
viceable for farm or station work. Price, 18/6
RT4 —Farmer’s usual serviceable fawn canton
mole Trousers, 22/6. Better quality, .. 25/-
RTs—Summer weight Plain and Twill Gabar-
ette Riding Trousers in medium and dark tawn,
closely woven, give splendid wear. Price, 25/-
RT6 —Medium weight cotton Riding Twist in
fawn only. Price, per pair, .. .. 27/6
RT7—Superior quality Wool and Cotton Rid-
ing Twist in drab, medium and dark fawn. 45/-:
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
IS
Who Would Blame Her?
Distinctive, elusive! She knows it, too —does
Milady. She feels secure in her supremacy,
aware her power to fascinate lies in the frocks
that adorn her. Thus her timely visits to
Shave, masters in dressmaking and tailoring.
And why not you?
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Meibourne.
%}
itryc
am
air
MI fInUjJDW I
Over the tea cup or
at any time you move
your hand, eyes turn
instinctively to your
gloves.
You should wear Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves not only because they are
economical, but because they
are exclusive in design and made
right.
Ask for them at your Drapers.
VF 34
fcuL
\\
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
There was more than the usual jostle at
Flemington on Cup Day, and a record crowd
surged and swayed while Poitrel won the
golden goblet. Now and then one met some
elegance in the pack; a few shuddered in
hare necks and arms, but more had the
comfort of furs. The place swarmed with
Governors and their staffs, and even they got
pushed about; still they could just about
turn round in the vice-regal pen, which Lady
Forster, who does not enthuse over lime-
light, seemed glad to share with others. Her
Ex., looking stranger since her landing, was
clad in mid-mourning for the dead Greek
monarch—cool grey satin with lace side-
panels, and just a tiny blue posy in hex-
hat. Governor Weigall’s wife brought black
upholstery and the newest of race coats,
with taffeta shoulder cape frills. Dame
Margaret from Sydney was in blue and
white. Her native dignity lent distinction
to the vice-regal group. Little Tassy’s Gov-
ernor Allardyce looked like a hair-restorer
advt. His wife wore ivory tailorings and
a superb skunk stole with violdts thereon.
During the solemn departure of the G.-G.
in the State carriage, with postilions and
other superfluities, a friendly note was
struck when Mrs. Pitt-Rivei-s waved gaily
to her spouse, who stood forlornly in the
stand with a stray satin race-coat on his
arm.
The gorgeous sunshades and gay suitings
associated with Oaks Day were this year
transformed into a dripping roof of umbrel-
las. Very eax-ly in the day the band was
washed off its perch, to be replaced by
macintoshed racing enthusiasts. There
wasn’t neax-ly enough shelter to go round,
and a fortune must have been lost in rain-
damaged goods. A few extra-optimistic ego-
tists made a dress parade between showers,
and some surprisingly smart modes were
uncovered. All the Exes, braved the
weather and got into wrappings more or
less picturesque. Dame Davidson struck a
purple note and Lady Weigall again showed
a penchant for flowers—-this tixne she wore
a yellow rose with her platinum-grey coat.
Mrs. Broderick, one of the Govei-nxnent
House guests, was more springlike. The
Allardyce daughter Iveva, cheei-y in spite of
the weather, chose a seal coat and chin-
chilla. One of the smartest about was Mrs.
Latham Baiileau, in blue-banded georgette
with a wide dado boldly embroidered. There
were numerous streamei-s on hats, looking
like football colors with variations.
Some of the Best showed a damp interest
when Clive Leonard’s Mufti won the Oaks
Stakes, and the G.-G. gave the family a left-
hand shake of congratulation. Neuritis in
the elbow kept his Ex.’s right arm in a
sling.
On Steeplechase day Lord Forster was too
sick to be present, and Lady Forster was in
an almost-empty box. She was in black
with a soft grey feather in her toque. The
lady has noticeably beautiful little hands;
she wore soft grey suede gloves that crinkled
up to the elbow. Lady Digby was in grey.
Aide Wheatley attended, with the monocle
that causes him so much trouble and his
large tawny Fairbairn wife. Mrs. Tom
Reynolds wore silver smocked into grey
pleats. Allen Tye’s sporty little wife
was in navy tailorings. Mrs. Ron
Murray developed a goi-geous black satin
coat-wrap with a glimpse of muslin em-
broidery underneath. Mrs. W. H. Lewis
had. a lunch party for daughter Mrs. Higgin-
botham, who is visiting from the Malay
States. Mrs. Sep Miller was in almost royal
blue, and Mrs. Gordon Chirnside had wedge-
wood-blue fouland. The Chauvel dame spread
a dressmakers’ delight—elaborate embraces of
silk and fringe and folds and puffs in brown.
Mrs. Stein covered a pale pink silk with a
race-coat. Mrs. Walter Bayles was
bunched into black taffetas. Betty Argyle
was a jolly little picture in cream muslin.
Mrs. Payne wore a long-fitting sheath of
black witli bruise-blue linings that showed
up in the wind. And Mrs. Percy Chirnside
concentrated on pearls and pale fawn flim-
sies.
Lady Loughborough, who used to be Sheila
Chisholm, of Sydney, just arrived by the
boat which brought the English cricketers,
dashed up fi-oin Menzies’ with a long fellow-
travellei-. A conspicuous cut of nigger jersey-
cloth and tiny veiled toque of brown formed
her race upholstery.
The womamof-old who went to Flemington
merely to air her new frock is almost extinct.
She did not know a steeplechaser from a
flatracei’, and called a jockey’s colors his
“jumper.” Almost —but not quite extinct. One
of her sat on the grandstand during Satur-
day’s steeplechase. She was exquisitely
turned out, and her lovely shoes were much
too tight. j She wanted to go home. When
the horses leapt into the second lap she
moaned fretfully. “I don’t see why they
make the poor things go round a second
time on such a hot day. Once is enough—
goodness knows,” she wailed.
The gai’den party at Government House
on Friday was a gamble. Rain was about
and the staff was in a fever. So a strategic
retreat was thought out. The reception was
arranged for the terrace, with every facility
for falling back on the awninged coi’ridors
of the ballroom.
The G.-G. and his lady stood at the head
of the fountain steps. The entrance there
is nari’ow, and the procession of guests had,
as it were, to pass through the eye of the
Biblical needle. The light fell on each pair;
so the frocks had a good mannequin parade,
while belltoppered males mostly wished them-
selves well out of it. Governor-General
Forster himself wore a worried air, and
his arm in a sling. Lady Forster’s gown
was a lovely thing of Spanish lace and tulle
over a tight sheath of black satin, and hex-
greetings were more charming still.
Lady Weigall (S.A.) made a sensation as
she ascended in a huge Dolly Varden bonnet
of white lace and a white dress all fringe
and puffs and streamers. It was all she
could do to negotiate the narrow steps.
Lieut.-Gov. Irvine’s wife wore precious
ancient lace on biscuit-colored erfipe. Dame
Margaret, of Sydney, wore shot-silk crGpe of
two shades of .yellow. Lady Allardyce got
into a lovely little dress with embroideries
juggled into the cream cr6pe de Chine.
The Governor-General’s ball was such a
crush that Lord Forster looked gently be-
wildered all the evening. In the dense crowd
the young people jazzed : they would jazz over
trampled bodies. Tulle dresses were torn
and tempers-«ruffled; but the really young fry
said it had a lovely time. The girls had their
Prince frocks, and plenty of nice young naval
men for partners, and uncramped corners in
the drawing-rooms for sitting out.
There was some awful delay about supper;
anxious aides fluttered and whispered, while
the ancients stood about looking hungry—
supper is their chief entertainment at a ball.
Eventually the exclusive party trooped away
to some inner shrine to Eat, and the merely
ravenous made for the suppei’-room. Two
guardian angels in footmen’s clothes allowed
about 40 in at a time, and then the doors
were relentlessly closed. Packs gathered out-
side the doors. It was a fearful exhibition.
There was a domestic touch about the
party. Some of the numerous small-fry of
the lai’ge G.-G. household wei-e dodging about
in elaborate frills. An infant was wheeled
about in a pram with a blue-fringed motor-
parasol attached.
Food was spi-ead evei’ywhere—heaps of
flowers and strawberries and tea foods on
scores of elbow tables; and more food in the
buffets and the State supper-room. The
usual garden-party crowd looked almost in-
jured because it could not scramble in the
time-honored fashion.
Lady Weigall provided the sole dash of
interest in the vice-i-egal lancers. The rest
of it was lost when it became known that
William Moms Hughes would not take his
usual gallant part therein —“owing to the
measles.” But whether they are inhabit-
ing himself or daughter Helen is at present
a mystery.
Dr. Williams, who came from London to
decorate the S. Aus. vice-regal Weigalls’
staff as chief medical-attendant, is not a
stranger to Melbourne. As a youth he
spent two or three years with his cousins,
the Greigs, at Toorak. The late Mr. and
Mrs. Greig (of quite the first social cii-cles)
were parents of big Bob Greig, Beatrice
Holloway’s actoi’-husband.
As though his neuritis were not burden
enough, Gov.-Genei’al Forster had no sooner
got through the Cup racket than he struck
further trouble. The doctor calls it diph-
theria.
The Australian Club Ball is the climax of
the Cup season, and as usual was the utter-
most “it.” The big staircase was adorned
with roses graduating from palest yellow to
deep amber, the lights en suite. The ballroom
was a mass of pink roses; the chandelier a
huge bouquet, with streamers ending in lesser
bunches. The refreshment-room was a per-
gola of blossoms of the flowering-gum, an
ideal decoration for an eating place. Presi-
dent and Vice-President Millear and Henty
were the official hosts. A large flock of
Vice-Regals attended. Lady Forster was
in black tulle, with diamonds; Lady Weigall
wore a flurry of white lace and silver tissue,
with a helping of pearls and diamonds ; Mrs.
Pitt-Rivers had pale ivory satin ; Dame Mar-
garet Davidsoh’s grey thatch toned with hex-
lace gown, to which her various orders added
a splash of color. Lady Dyer leaped into
popularity in a white gorgette with a raised
pattern in autumn tints. Mrs. Tom Grantham
was a study in black studded with moon-
stones. Mrs. Walter Moffatt Marks held up
the Sydney end in black, with a touch of green.
Mrs. Stuart Murray lit up her black lace
frock with a diamond tiara. Mrs. Norman
Hodges went to Egpyt for her dress inspira-
tion, and appeared in a sheath gown of grey
brocade, with black panel and a head-dress of
white grapes. The bi’ide of the week, sister
Roma, footed it in oyster grey charmeuse,
with paddy-green foot-covers. And Pauline
Curran was delectable in coral pink satin
and gold tissue.
Mrs. Fred Payne, of Maritimo, devised a
scrumptious Cup-night junket for her
friends. Rose-pink lights in the ballroom
were grateful to the tired race-goers, and
the guests feasted on oysters and straw-
berries under a vieux-rose canopy set in a
gai’den of x-hododendrans and azaleas shad-
ing from pale pink to crimson. All the
visiting notabilities were present. Sir
Ai’chie Weigall came on from Government
House dinner with Lady Weigall, who was
in a black-trained gown ending up with a
burst of silver on the corsage. Mrs. Payne
sported a charming frock of white satin
draped with black lace, and a swathe of
pink and yellow round the waist. Lady
Dyer, of Westralia, a war widow (her hus-
band, Captain Sir John Swinnerton Dyer,
M.C., Scots Guards, was killed in 1917),
was tall and slim in white, with an attrac-
tive tiara outlining the brow.
Lawrence Campbell, judging the “Cham-
pion of Champions” competition at South-
street the other day, handed the trophy for
elocution to Louie Dunn, the Melbourne
girl who is looking
at you in the adjoin-
ing photo. Louie’s
competitors were
previous prize-
takers, but she left
them all astern with
a remarkable render-
ing of “The Pas-
sions,” which Camp-
be 11 declared was
“the finest recitation
he ever heard.”
Louie Dunn, who is
Mrs. Leonard
Arnold off the plat-
form, is a graceful
amateur actress who
figured in the Re-
pertory movement
during its brief
career at the Playhouse Theatre, and did
conspicuous work in “The Trojan Women”
and “Rutherford and Son.”
Nine young matrans gave a gilt-edged
festa at St. Kilda Town Hall early in Cup
week, and one picked up one’s partner at
the sign of “The Agile Rabbit” or “The
Festive Duck.” Supper—a splendifei-ous
supper—was eaten amidst masses of deep
red roses and lilies of the valley. A cabaret
touch was devised under the balcony near
the dancing-floor, where the guests, sipped
their wine and smoked a weed whilst watch-
ing the jazzing. All had their best on. Mrs.
Stuart Murray in lime-color draped geoi--
gette, and Mrs. Algy Landale, chic in a
shoi-t frock of black tulle and sequins, were
tireless in their endeavor to keep the show
moving. Mrs. Bertie Watson (Sydney)
showed off her fairness in blue and silver;
Mrs. Gordon Wesche wore a draped black
satin with a Roman matron expression ; Mrs.
Pat Osborne dimpled in pale heliotrope
satin; Mrs. Phelps Batten, who does a deal
of hunting in England, set off her faultless
complexion with a black frock; the Coochin
Bell girls danced their satin slippers to
pieces; and Mrs. Allan Currie looked like
the pinkest ice-cream. A tiara was on every
second head.
Rose Day in Melbourne was marked by a
social catastrophe. Lady Forster weighed
in with three baskets, and at the suggestion
of the C.T.A. heads gave one each to
the C.T.A., the Australian Club and the
Athenmum, the C.T.A. challenging the other
two to see which could raise the most lucre.
The Athenaeum tui-ned in £46 and the C.T.A.
£39, but the wool-kings of the Australian
didn’t back up vice-royalty worth a ha’penny.
The basket turned up all right, but the
secretary was put and no one at the Club
knew what to do about it.. When the sec.
arrived it was too late to do anything, so
poor Charity got nothing.
Looking chirpier than evei-, Norman
Bayles was back in time for the Cup. Had
he known the sort of tussle there was going
to be for his old Toorak Assembly seat he
might have held on to it. Nobody ever had
one that was softer and easier.
Charley Chepmell, Clerk of the House of
Dodery and long one of Hobart’s most
eligible bachelors, has bestowed the gold
band of custom on Mona Moore. The Chep-
mells have the blue blood of the Douglases
or some such people about them, and Mona’s
father, the late William Moore, was once
a member of Ministries in the Speck. His
daughter has brains, and went for a degree
or two at the Tas. Uni.
The lamentations of Adelaide:—
Everyone is either in Melbourne or putting town
houses into dust sheets before flitting to seaside or
hills. Between times we either jazz or take a bitter
dose of cricket. At the two big matches the grand-
stands billowed with the wide-floating veils that are
part of Adelaide’s October-to-March raiment, and the
smokers’ pavilion was full of old enthusiasts who
shook their heads despondently over the rout of the
local men and groaned for a Hill or a Darling.
Amongst the multitude of societies born of the
war there is one that has had no limelight but has
proved useful in a score of ways. This Soldiers’
Mothers’ Band’s latest is to acquire a cottage in the
hills—a bare half-hour by train from Adelaide —
where soldiers’ wives and mothers can find the rest
and change many of them badly need but can’t
afford to buy. Sixty of them turned up for a picnic
there on Saturday, and the cottage is always booked
for weeks ahead.
At its twenty-second annual meeting Minda, the
home for feeble-minded at Brighton, explained what
it wants £20,000 for. Its inmates average over 150
and there is rarely an empty bed, but it subsists
on chance subscriptions and a Government grant,
and it wants this money for an endowment. Inci-
dentally it does a bit for itself —sold this year 1100
dozen eggs, 7000 gallons of milk and £l5O worth
of almonds.
The wonder is that a far bigger hall wasn’t
needed to hold the audience at the violin recital
that Sylvia Whitington gave with pianist George
Pearce. But there was enthusiasm enough for ten
times as many people as the Queen’s Hall can hold,
and Sylvia was nearly buried in flowers.
A few nights later the same hall saw this town’s
first demonstration of eurhythmies, with Miss Heather
Gell as chief exponent. Half the main floor was
set apart as a stage where pupils, garbed in bathing-
gowns, went through their paces.
Community-singing has been introduced by Wal-
lace Packer, Alexander Cooper, Hugh King, Mrs.
Kate Weston (she who wrote “The Man MacDonald ’)
and a few more enthusiasts, and we have taken to
it like ducks to green peas. During the Friday
lunch-hour the Town Hall is crowded, and the magic
of the conductor’s baton melts a self-conscious
crowd into a flood of song that may resolve itself
into anything from old-folk ditties and nursery
rhymes to the shrill “Song of Australia.” Hundreds
of women go—most of them glad to find a change
from shop or office for their lunch-hour—and a
good sprinkling of men. The show is free, but there’s
a collection-box at the door.
Veteran Dr. J. A. G. Hamilton, broken in health,
is retiring to Westralia .to join his sons and end
his days in the open-air. He has for many years
been a lecturer at the Uni., and it has given him
(and also Dr. W. T. Hayward) the title of Honorary-
Lecturer as a recognition of good work.
Adelaide is getting tired of being shut off from
sea and hills till midday on Sunday. The tramway
service has always taken the no-Sunday-moming
stand, but the trains were stopped during the war,
and only, it was understood, for “the duration.”
They have not been restored, but Glenelg is taking
the lead in getting all suburban municipalities to
petition the Government for Sabbath-breaking facili-
ties.
The train of Roma .Clarke’s wedding gown
is six yards long, and every inch of the satin
lining is hung with pearls hand sewn on to
dripping tulle. The train itself is yards of
Point lace left to the bride by a wealthy aunt.
The dress is fashioned out of one piece of sil-
ver brocade, swirled and folded cunningly, but
uncut. Tailor Thomas is the Australian man-
milliner who evolved the masterpiece. It
really should be signed like a picture.
The energy of Allan Wilkie’s dressmakers
was not affected by the fact that “The Merry
Wives of Windsor” is the last show of the
season. The whole company is fitted out in
new duds, Miss Hunter-Watts doing Mistress
Ford in a scarlet gown bearing golden
flowers, a scarlet hat like a sauce-boat perch-
ing precariously on her hair. Miss Lorna
Fox-bes puts Mistress Page into a pale blue
arrangement with an over-dress of brown.
Sfime of the effects are almost grotesque; and
Guy Hastings, as a mournful Page, is pro-
bably driven broody by his demented color
scheme, whereof the chief offence is a lavender
kilt.
Mrs. (Dr.) Kenna was missed from Cup
festivities this year. She is a consistent
visitor from Sydney. The death of her young
sister, who was just a bride, put all thought
of frocks out of her mind.
What is the matter with the Returned
Soldiei-s’ Band that the jazziest of jazz bands
was selected to bray noisily from the musi-
cians’ gallei-y at Government House Ball?
The mixture of ragtime, singing, tin-kettles
and trumpets struck one as out of tune in
the vice-regal atmosphere. And dauces were
encored. The re-demand for particular
mel-o-dies was a shocking exhibition of bad
taste.
Gertrude Johnson had her farewell concert
at the week-end, and though the crowd was
too weary with i-ace-time parties to be per-
sonally present, the money was in the house.
So Gertrude is off for study with quite a fat
little wad in her stocking.
The new Mayoress, Mrs. J. W. Swanson,
comes into her own this week. She is to
have a supper party at the Town Hall after
the inaugural dinner.
Apropos the Rutter Clarkes’ old home, the
Everard Brownes, it seems, only leased it
from Mrs. Charles Moore, who is now in
England. And the Askin Foster widow
hasn’t bought it —yet.


PROSPECTUS
OF
New South Wales Government
Loan of £3,00(i,000
R\TE OF INTEREST 5 i PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
Price of Issue: Par. (Payable in Instalments).
Interest payable Ist June and Ist December.
A full six months’ interest will be payable
Ist June, 1921.
Principal repayable at par, in Sydney, Ist December, 1930.
List of applications closes Monday, 3rd January, 1921.
The Government of New South Wales offers for subscription a loan of £3,000.000,
bearing interest at the rate of 5i% per annum, and having a currency of 10 years from
Ist December, 1920, a guarantee being given that the interest will be free of both Mew
South Wales and Federal Income Taxes.
The loan is being raised under the authority of the Act of Parliament No. 117 of
1919, and is for the purpose of providing funds to be applied towards the completion of
the North Coast Railway, the Railways from Dubbo to Werris Creek, Glenreafth to
Dorrigo, and Canowindra to Eugowra, Hydro-Electric Schemes for South-West RiMerina
and North Coast, and other Public Works and Services.
Applications for the loan should be addressed to the Colonial Treasurer, The
Treasury, Sydney.
The principal is payable in instalments, as follows, viz.
£25 per cent % on Wednesday, Ist December, 1920 j
£25 per cent, on Monday, 3rd January, 1921;
£25 per cent, on Tuesday, Ist February, 1921;
£25 per cent, on Tuesday, Ist March, 1921;
and will be accepted free of exchange.
Applications made after Ist December, 1920. must be accompanied by interest at
5i% per annum, from that date to date of lodgment of the first, instalment of £25 per
cent. Any second, third or final instalment not paid on its • respective due date must
also haVe interest to date of payment added.
The loan may be subscribed for hither in the form of Bonds or Funded Stock, at the
option of the subscriber.
Bonds or Stock may be purchased in multiples of £lO.
■ Subscribers for Funded Stock may have the interest on their Stock remitted to their
Bank accounts in the country or outside the State free of exchange, but the interest on
the Bonds will be payable in Sydney.
Forms of application for the loan may be obtained from the Registrar of Stock, the
Treasury, Sydney; from the Branches of the Government Savings Bank of New South
Wales throughout the State, and also at all Branches in the State of the Bank of New
South Wales and the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited.
Deposits and instalments will be accepted at the Treasury, Sydney, or at any of
the Branches of the Banks named.
Applications for the loan may be forwarded through members of recognised Stock
Exchanges.
JOHN T. LANG,
Colonial Treasurer
‘
T'x
•m*
Marshall Locomobiles
Actual Figures Prove
Economical Investment.
COMPAR-
ING.
No. 8
Locomobile.
Drop Valve
Engine Lanca-
shire Boiler.
Superheater and
Feed Water
No. 2
Locomobile.
Slide Valve
Engine
Loco Type
Boiler and Feed
Water lleater.
No. 1
Locomobile.
“Undertype”
Compound
Engine and
Loco Type
Boiler.
Marshall Locomobiles use wood, coal or any combustible fuel, preferred for
mining plants, mills, crushing plants and power work —50 to 350 H.P.
Get particulars.
British ■ Australian Engineering Co. Ltd.,
National Mutual Buildings,,
Cr. Collins and Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne. ’Phone 4031.
N.S.W. AGENTS—
AUSTRAL, ENGINEERING CO., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. AGENTS—
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS—
GENERAL MACHINERY & ELECTRICAL CO., Brisbane, Queensland.
Straight to THE SMOKER
Cutting' Out Two Profits.
Wholesaler and Retailer
Unnecessary.
H. H. Humphery, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney, has been appointed by
B. & J. B. Machado to market their cigars in Australia. B. & J. B. Machado
were the pioneers of the cigar trade in the British West Indies. Escaping
from Spanish oppression in Cuba in 1875 these two cousins began to make
cigars in Jamaica, and the firm then founded has maintained ever since its lead
in the manufacture of Strictly Hand-made Jamaica Cigars of the highest grades.
There is no higher grade cigar in the world than a Jamaica cigar.
Full-sized Coronas at following rates:
per 100, £6/10/- in Boxes of 25.
From the retailer to-day full-sized Coronas sell at 2/6 each. The present
agents are cutting the price in half. The same is true of all Machado high-
grade special lines, which include Escepcionales, Regalia, Gentlemen, Flor de
Machado, Cremos, Perfectos, Caballeros, Governors and Tropicales, etc.
Write to-day to
m
I?,
H. H. HUMPHERY, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.


Charles
Beidsiecks
Vintage 1911
CfMfIMW
NE PLUS ULTRA
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
Accepted as
Melbourne’s Finest
Achievement in high-
class Hotel Service.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
’Phone Cent. 4984.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
•989
You can buy
John Strange Winter’s
Preparations everywhere!
The popular John Strange Winter Toilette preparations, which have given
satisfaction for many years, are still procurable everywhere. Ask for them
at the Civil Service Stores, Washington H. Soul’s, Farmer’s, Waters’,
Horderns’, McCathie’s, David Jones’, Lassetter’s, and at any chemist or
fashionable department store.
Three preparations are mentioned here for seasonable use:—
J.S.W. Hair Food.
A positive hair restorative and
dandruff eradicator. Two kinds:
Oily—for dry scalps, 3/9
bottle. Non-oily, for lustreless,
lifeless hair, 4/9 bottle.
Lakshmi Skin Cream
A fragrant emollient for im-
parting that youthful, velvety
texture to the skin. Most eco-
nomical, too. Price 3/9 per
jar.
Lakshmi Lotion.
Just the very lotion your skin
needs during this trying,
changeable weather. For faded
lips it is especially good.
Price 3/9 per bottle.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
Do you remember the little Hollander who
saved his country from being flooded by
stopping the hole in the dyke through which
the sea had begun to force a passage? Well,
that is something of the defence Maggie
Thwaites is putting up to keep the beloved
Home for Incurables from being destroyed by
waves of debt. For 13 years she has organ-
ised the annual fete at the Home, and for
the past two years has seen to every
detail as usual even though increasing weak-
ness has kept her abed. Everybody wfio has
been to the fete knows what heaped-up
treasures of fine needlework the stalls hold,
the faii’y-like embroideries that look as
though human hands had never touched them
—and often such poor crippled hands!
There is one event in this little world that
is bounded by the garden walls of the
Home at Ryde. The fete is the topic from
one year’s end to the other. When the
wonder of this year’s takings is exhausted,
everybody grows busy thinking and plan-
ning and working for the next. “Last year we
took £350 in spite of the rain,” quavered one
grandmother whose fingers were weaving an
emerald-green paper nest —later to be filled
with sugar almond eggs with a chick breaking
through one. “The Ryde paper mentions the
fete in two places!” interrupted a cheery
voice. “And I do hope, Matron, you won’t
let them forget that I have my stall in the
porch—l always have had my stall in the
porch,” insisted an alert voice from a little
figure prostrate in the sultry afternoon. Every-
where there were busy hands and cheerful
faces; yet some of the patients have been
facing the doom “incurable” for 13 and 14
years. The little colony is not altogether
made up of the elderly. Youth too, alas,
calls it home. There is dark little Jess,
with her curly black head bent over the lace
bobbins; and Kit, the bookworm, enthralled
by wild adventures on land and sea.
The fete will be held on Saturday, in the
Home gardens, amid the green sloping
countryside of Ryde, threaded through with
the silver ribbon of the Parramatta. Motor-
’buses will meet the trains at Meadowbank
to drive the visitors to the big house on the
hill, where pain and suffering wear the fine
masks of cheerfulness and courage. If you
can’t go—well, the postman calls.
The usual “film with a purpose” has once
more erected its vent-pipe over Sydney. This
time it is called “The End of the Road,”
but by any other name it would be just as
unhealthy. The sermon it professes to preach
is “Initiate your children into the mystery of
sex at the earliest possible age,” commenc-
ing for preference, like the wise mother in
the picture does, when your offspring has
reached the age of seven. The occasion was
the little girl’s discovery of a bird’s' nest
with eggs in it. Mamma having delicately
explained that seven-year-old also sprang
from an egg, the precocious one, slopping
over with sentiment, exclaims, “Oh, mother,
now I know why I love you most in all
the world!” The film is supposed to aim
a blow at V.D.; but before the dreadful
examples arrive (there are miles of film
taken up with the poor, pitiable results of
the scourge), attractive young women are
cuddled up to young men, or pawed by
elderly roues; and perfect ladies are chased
over the landscape by young gents at a pace
that proves them to be trained to the last
ounce. (
The visualising of these scenes can do no
good to the young mind; and such a film,
which, after all, is being exploited for pri-
vate profit, is not a weapon in the V.D.
warfare. Quite half the scenes would stand
an excellent chance of being censored if they
were in an ordinary film; and to exhibit
them under the cloak of reform is to send
direct action off on holiday while the hood-
winked welfare-worker starts off on a false
scent. After the young man who has known
the sweet young thing since her infancy,
and has wanted to marry her since she was
17, has invited her into a corner of the
conservatory where the Chinese lanterns
have burned out to lend herself to him for
the 24 hours of his final leave, there’s a
fade-out of the sweet young thing (the same
sweet young thing who knew all about
motherhood at seven) bagging her V.D.
doctor, followed by the Armistice with the
star-spangled banner in the foreground.
Then up popped little Dr. Arthur on to
the stage and said it was a beautiful film
and everybody should see it; and Dr. Bean
spoke in similar strain; and a man from
the Children’s Court dragged in the story of
an unfortunate little girl who is clearly a
subject for mental treatment. But Dr.
Grace Boelke brought the cabbage to a boil
by declaring that looking at films didn’t cure
either bad morals or syphilis, and that well-
lighted streets and law-in-motion were more
to the point.
Mary Dorothy, the pretty little ‘younger
daughter of paper-man William Brooks,
M.L.C., married William Alexander Gregg,
of the tennis-playing family, at St. Stephen’s,
in a hailstorm of confetti on Thursday even-
ing. Shimmering wedding finery of ivory
satin, tulle and silver lace encompassed the
bride, who bound her locks with a Brussels-
lace veil that cascaded into a train, and car-
ried a whole lagoon of water-lilies in the
curve of her arm. Bridesmaid sister Bar-
bara wore the latest rainbow-ribbon effects
on her primrose taffeta dress, a primrose veil
moored to her head with a jade-green chaplet
and a bunch of yellow roses. Norman Gregg
supported his brother with the artillery of
personal experience; and the wedding meats
were consumed by a select few at Chevi-
thorne, the Brookses’ Double Bay home. John
Ferguson collected the wedding fee.
Mary Ranken Campbell, of Cowra, and
Captain Hugh Douglas Pulling are trying
life in double harness. The bridal trim-
mings were of superfine quality, and Captain
Hugh presented his bride with a string of
pearls to add thereto. Petty’s served the*
cheer-o, the Apple Island is the honeymoon
setting (an apple orchard was picked by
Adam and Eve—we are an unoriginal
animal, after all), and Burma is the future
address,
Bessie Spelicer, of Woolwich, who became
Mrs. Lvall Walker on Saturday at the Pitt-
street Congregational Church, veiled her fair
prettiness in a cloud of Limerick lace that
covered the locks of its first little Walker
bride more than 100 years ago. The lace
is really beautiful, and has that creamy mel-
lowness which only time can give. Lyall, by
the way, is an architect and a soldier of four
years’ experience.
Another bride of the week was Eileen
Weekes, whose father was Dr. Weekes, of
Vaucluse. Eileen dispensed with bridal
drapings and bridesmaids, and stepped up
the aisle of St. James’s the other afternoon
as simply and directly as if she were merely
going to bid the time of day to Sidney Gan-
don, who Was waiting to claim her for better
or worse. The Australia gathered the small
party to its bosom.
This is a May Moore picture of Florence
Sulman, who is keenly interested in disabled
soldiers, and in arts, crafts, kindergartens and
botany. Her books on
the flora of N. S.
Wales have become
standard text-books
for students in Aus-
tralia. The Field
Naturalists’ Club
sowed the first seed
in Miss Sulman’s
mind; then Mrs.
Lancelot Harrison
and Girls’ Realm
Guild Miss Burrows
juggled the fairy
wand of encourage-
ment, and the plant
blossomed into work
so .simply and inter-
estingly done that it
is as fascinating as
a novel to the student
mind. Eirene Mort made the drawings for
the big effort.
Lucy Piddington, of Cremorne, is wearing
a very handsome diamond ring, the seal of
her promise to Arthur Francis Macdonald,
of Dunedin (M.L.).
Enid Plordern, second daughter of the
Kirribilli Cecil Horderns, is engaged. The
young man is T. Vero Read. The Vero
Reads are the family-lawyers for the biggest
Hordern estate.
Mrs. Colvin and her 16-year-old boy Peter
Osborne have arrived on a visit. She
divorced D’Arcy Osborne about 10 years
ago and married Theo Marks. Her present
husband is an Indian civil sei*vant who had
a distinguished career in the big war.
The Beaufort Burdekh.s have arrived and
are staying at the Alex. Hays’ home in
Macquarie-street. Mrs. Hay and her sister,
Miss Burdekin, are expected in Sydney in
two or three weeks.
Rene Maxwell should make quite a hit in
her “Lilac Domino,’’ judging by the dash of
sauce she served with two little French songs
at the Tramway and Railway Institute con-
cert the other night. Rene made her first
black-clad appearance with much more sar-
torial effect than she achieves with her usual
May Queen' frocking.
Dorothy Helmrich is standing on her own
feet in London. She made quite a hit at
the Prom, concerts in the Queen’s Hall, even
that music-steeped audience insisting on
double encores. “Hame” and “Go Not,
Happy Day,” were her big successes, and
Sir Henry Wood himself congratulated her.
The Victor people called next day to record
Dorothy’s voice in the Queen’s Hall-marked
goods, and the very exclusive Observes
gave her a paragraph to herself. At the
concert she wore a frock of gold tissue with
an overdress of bronze net worked in dull
gold, and that was a success, too.
Mrs. Kingsmill-Shaw, who has taught*
singing to two generations in Sydney, is off
to join her daughter, Madame Carrara, in
Milan, where grand-daughter is having an
operatic success. Old pupils and friends are
getting up a testimonial, and there’s £4O
already in hand.
Brisbane notes and small change:—
Teas in honor of Dorothy Earwaker (papa is
manager of Winchcombe-Carson, and mamma was
one of the well-known Bond family) have occurred
almost daily during the last fortnight. And then,
on Thursday evening at the Anglican Cathedral, she
changed her name to Billington. Bridegroom is
Captain Dick Billington, M.C. Alice Hawthorn and
Beryl Wonderley (Toowoomba), one in ashes of
roses georgette and the other in powder-blue, made
pretty bridesmaids; and Major Frank North and
Lieut. Jack Earwaker Ifnt the ’groom a helping
hand. A reception at Finney’s Hoof Garden fol-
lowed. Captain and Mrs. Billington are honey-
mooning at Medlow.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Humfress are leaving Bris-
bane for Sydney. The Babies’ Home at Corinda
will miss her sadly: she has done Trojan’s work
for it.
Major Maxwell is appealing for funds for the
Children’s Hospital. Mr. J. HeuSsler, a good Aus-
tralian, who was at the meeting called in ’73 by
Mrs. McConnell at Witton Manor, Indooroopilly, to
establish a children’s hospital, sent along a £5
jubilee' gold piece in memory of his mother, who
was a member of the first committee.
Died on Saturday, Florence Barton, daughter of
the late Dr. Barton, and a pillar of the Boys’ Home
(Enoggera), the crfiche and kindergarten, and the
Governesses’ Home.
The National Galle.ry the other day bought
a beautiful silken fan painted by Florence
Mofflin. __ It’s “a garden of dreams” of the
Louis XIV. period; and if ever the young
things in the Gallery step from their frames
after hours, for a jazz or a tickle-toe, there
will be keen rivalry for this dainty morsel.
Old Fort-street boy Haddon Chambers ex-
pected that he would be able to resist
feminine blandishment for the term of hi.s
natural life, and got an architect to build
him a residence “without any fal-lals” in
the way of drawing- or reception-rooms. An
old garage in an alley off Park-lane (invari-
ably alluded to as Jerusalem-avenue by per-
fervid orators in Hyde Park on Sunday morn-
ings) was purchased and reconstructed, and
one of the most charming flats in London
made its appearance right amongst the
palatial edifices reared by Barney Barnato,
Alfred Beit and other millionaires. Now
that he has mfet his fate in the blooming
young South American actress, Pepita Boba-
dilla, it will be interesting to know the
future of his famous London residence. It
can’t be enlarged owing to its position, so
he will probably build another.
Singer Sid Macdonald, whose health has
not been too good of late, is to be given a
testimonial concert on Monday, the 22nd, at
the Town Hall. Sid has made a positive
welter of charity and patriotic concerts.
During the war he sang at no less than 450
song bursts.
If any submariner has the address of
Neptune he might send it to Mrs. Rabett,
who would like to include the old chap in
the invitations she is issuing to the yacht
and motor-boat clubs to take part in an
“amphibious” f§te at Redleaf, Double Bay,
on Saturday, November 27, in aid of St.
Luke’s Hospital.
The Kindergarten Union is going to be
nearly a thousand pounds out of pocket by
the refusal of the City Fathers to allow it
to hold the yearly street collection. That’s
a hard nut to crack, and the little collection-
cards that all the members of the committee
carry in their handbags are not expected
to prove the nutcrackers. After Christmas,
however, the kindergarten workers are going
to make up that thousand and a fevf hundreds
over, though how they have not yet’decided.
The 3rd Battalion has fixed on December
8 for its reunion in the Town Hall. Secre-
tary : F. Ellis, Burlington-street, Crow’s
Nest.
The decorations for the Rose Ball in aid
of Mount Margaret Hospital are to be the
real bloom, and on Nov. 11 Sargent’s ball-
room will be a bower of roses, the spoil of
the beautiful gardens surrounding the hos-
pital. Each visitor will receive a bouquet of
the queen flower.
John Longstaff has taken a studio in
George-street, and has settled down to paint
subject-pictures for exhibition in London.
He means to specialise in distinguished men
and 'ovely women, and is making a begin-
ning in the former class with W. A. Holman.
Mrs. Lucy Rankin, who has died suddenly
at Goulburn, was the first person asked by
the Government to take charge of hostels in
connection with public schools. Enormously
interested in the western town’s centenary
celebrations, she organised the pageant that
terminated with the crowning of the Queen;
and while the Queen was being crowned Mrs.
Rankin collapsed. The Goulburn people are
raising funds to create an annuity for her
small son Colin.
Determination is everything. Up in Dar-
linghurst-road there was a little old house
sandwiched between a billiard-room and a
“residential.” The other week the front
verandah, which came right on to the street,
was torn off, and some of the front rooms
went through a disembowelling. Then behold
a new front with wide porches top and bot-
tom, an intriguing doorway, and green-
striped blinds flashed upon the passerby;
and now the medical Eakins (she was
Lyndall Solomon) have a home almost in
the heart of the city.
Richard Humphries, whose Isfand stories
have warmed the back of The Bulletin,
has arrived in Sydney with a large bundle
of seriou” manuscript. There is among it
some fine record of
travel which is ready
for the publisher
under the name of
“A Thousand Miles
Through Pa p u a.”
Humphries is home
o n furlough—h i s
third since 1912.
For nine years he
has been on the
magisterial staff, in
that time has been
at stations from one
end of Papua to the
other, and has ex-
plored much country
in the Gulf and
Lakekamu districts
—a 11 lone-hand
work. Once he
crossed New Guinea with six native police
and no white companion, and connected up
with Chinnery on the headquarters of the
Warra River. He covered 500 miles on
that journey. His most recent expedition
traced the Kunimaipa River in the Mount
Chapman country; besides putting a new
bit of river on the map, he went up to the
top of Papua—Mt. Chapman is 12,000 ft.
high—with his natives crouching over fires
in the tropic noonday. Now he has come
down to collect a wife. He married Miss
Ethel Puxley, a “dinkum Aussie girl” from
a Bananaland cattle station, two years ago,
and a cruel administration recalled him
during his honeymoon. Besides a wife
there’s a daughter over a year old to meet.
His next job will be on Yule Island, and
Mrs. Humphries and daughter will be able
to join him there. Humphries is a N. S.
Wales boy, who served his articles with
Cope, of Casino.
On Thursday and Saturday nights the
Hippodrome was packed with the musical
to hear Verbrugghen lead his orchestra and
choir. It may have been the swift onrush
of summer ; certainly the audience appeared
listless, and the applause, though loud, was
not the electrical thing it used to be. The
choir could at times scarcely be heard at all;
but the brasses were ready to make up the
deficit, and clashed and banged as though
Zion were being retaken in glory. On Satur-
day night tall and graceful Elsy Treweek’s
high though somewhat hard soprano clove
its way triumphantly above all competition
in “Ah, Fors e Lui,” and later on as
English Micaela to Balboni’s Italian Jose.
Formes met with great opposition from the
heavyweight instruments in “Wotan’s Fare-
well,” but got his own back as the dashing,
toreador. The orchestral gem was the
“Dance of the Hours,” and ithe vocal first-
place went to Balboni’s “Donna e Mobile.”
Justin Vaughan Flynn is to be the Bush
Brother of the Australian-poet gospel. He
is to be sent into the wilderness with his
collection of slides and poems and the Voice;
and if he makes the success of things that
John the Baptist did, Henry Lawson and
Rod Quinn and David McKee Wright, not
to speak of Mary Gilmore an'd Mrs. Forrest,
may yet drive up to pay their income-tax in
Rolls Royces. .
Sydney housewives have had a week’s tor-
ment from moths; and, outside, the bush,
especially along the coast, has been flecked
with white butterflies. Apparently these
flutterers can fly further than is generally
supposed; for passengers aboard an incoming
steamer reported that spme came aboard
when the ship was a full two miles from
land. The most remarkable thing about the
white cloud is that it has apparently cur-
tained the coast for at least a thousand
miles; for a Queensland woman left at Bris-
bane the “plague” which she landed into
at Sydney, and North Coast towns have
had it in between. Brisbane isn’t a bit
happy about it; for the oldest inhabitant
remembers the same thing occurred just
before the great flood of ’B7.


HARDY BROTHERS
JEWELLERS
Pearl
Necklaces.
The continued popula-
rity and increasing
demand for fine Whole
Pearl Necklaces is an
undoubted indication
that these are the most
fashionable ornaments
in vogue. Hardy Bros,
specialise in Pearls and
hold the largest and
choicest stock in Aus-
tralia.
Prices range from
£2O to £3OOO.
Illustrated Catalogues sent post
free on request.
13 HUNTER STREET,
116-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane. London.
SYDNEY*
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
As Unerring in Action as
Fine Jewelled Watch
“Ansco” Vest Pocket No. 2,
complete with Instructions,
PRICE £B.
and almost as convenient to
carry, is the
ANSCO V.P.
No. 2
the smallest and lightest camera
made to take 2\ x 3\ inch pic-
tures.
The combination of the fast,
clear defining Modico Anastig-
mat Lens, with a simple, easily-
operated micrometer focussing
device, assures fine, clean-cut
pictures, which
MAKE PERFECT ENLARGEMENTS.
Stiff Ts/n Hide Case to take above 12/
Stiff Brown Suede Leather Case to take above .. . 15/
G?
The House for GOOD Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Also at
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Works and Laboratories: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale, N.S.W.
BUCKLEY’S
(Melbourne's Leading: Clothiers)
SPECIAL SUIT
AT 82 GUINEAS
Combining: Style and Economy.
These Special Suits are each a
masterpiece in value. Smartly
styled and dependable in wear
they represent the most attractive
offer in the Men’s Suit World
of to-day.
We have assembled a choice
selection of All-Wool Tweeds, in
a beautiful range of designs and
colorings, representing the finest-
made Woollen Products in Aus-
tralia.
Everyone who possibly can
should make a. point of
inspecting these special
Suitings in our Tailoring
Department, whilst the op-
portunity lasts, but for
those to whom this is
impossible there is the
medium of the post,
by which anyone liv-
ing at a distance can
share in this wonder-
ful offer.
Write for samples and
self-measurement form,
sent free on request,
quotihg Number R 125.
f-' V
Ssss
w
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.,
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
FOOO^'
A Ready to Serve
Summer Delicacy
Appetising, wholesome—just the very
thing you can really «njoy on a hot day.
REX CAMP PIE
With Salad
is the best of all Summer
foods for the home, for picnics,
for week-end camps.
It consist*; of choicest meats,
prepared and cooked in the
most appetising manner It
is ready to eat from the tin.
Always keep a tin handy.
Sold by all grocers everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of Rex Pure Food Products
Curers of Rex Hams and Bacon
J 3930
\
\ •
J \
\
\
54
if
/* m
ft J
if
V
VlNttf*
'
&
Hc£
gs?
«s^l *
•*. ,?».


andCuticuraOintment
The pore-cleansing, purifying and
sterilizing properties of this wonder-
ful skin soap, using plenty of hot
water and soap, best applied with
the hands, which it softens wonder-
fully and the soothing and healing
properties of Cuticura Ointment for
redness and roughness, pimples and
dandruff, if any, will prove a revela-
tion to those who use them for the
-first time.
For sample each address: *‘R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
!Wp Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & Z/-
Learn
to Draw
There's Money
in the
Pen.
2S
vs
m
.The above ,
is tlie title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
THE harry J. WESTON
Postal Vchool of Drawing,
15 Union House, Cr. George & Grosvenor Sts.,
SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
IllS
V.
> BRITISH
AOE
Perfection
Pirs r rubber
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining; wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
;
Federal
Motor
Trucks
are recognised by success-
ful business men as an
indispensable asset to the
business they control.
They are quick to see the advantage they have over competitors who still move their
goods by inefficient horse-teams.
Follow the lead the FEDERAL gives, and investigate to-day!
Sizes: 1, I|, 2, 3£, 5 tons.
SOLE AGENT:—
H. W. CROUCH, 26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
' \
A
On Hoi Summer drirvK
KING Of TABLE WATERS
Rich in nWatry****
Contain* LimpSo daXitfiia
A< i PM,r ' ' 'E-Rowland* „ Ph) . Ltd.
Melbourne , & SifdHinj
PURVEYORS TO VICE-ROYALTY
ASP
•**
Wiiir
•"> Niwui w»m
V 5
0
AGENTS
9*l ROWLANDS
*«uim ruuitui *
m
H c-Ac. rrzr>:
‘I
V
NIGH-GRADE
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwea’/h.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne • - Phone Cer/ral 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone Ci♦// 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
m
0
<
u
0
>
o
A)
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Owing to the highland ever-advancing price of footwear, it
is necessary to obtain the maximum wear from your shoes.
You can do so by using BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS,
which are made from ingredients which PRESERVE the
leather, in addition to giving a high polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey, and Dark Grey. In Bottles and
Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
Underwear Needs
Pure wool Is woven to perfect-fitting
garments and finished by a special process
that imparts to the texture a delightful
smoothness, in the making of Jason wear.
Neither shape nor silkiness being des-
troyed by washing, Jason satisfies all
underwear needs.
Ask to see Jason undergarments at your draper’s
or stores : cold and warm weather weights in all
sizes and styles.
AtVMOOi. UMSHKIMKASU
UNDERWEAR
In cate of difficulty write to
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
C/4
New " Olympic ” Brand. Owing to the high
prices of the trams from which Jason all-wool
goods are mode, the manufacturers have intro-
duced temporarily lower lines containing a per-
centage of cotton—hearing otherwise the same
guarantee of quality as the regular lines. Your
dealer will supply you.
<f>
%
Lorufclothtf
CP
THE. WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
i
We Desire
to Buy
PLATINUM, at £l4 per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.,
BYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Taal: Don’t try to hide your meaning.
There are poets who are obscure; but they are poets
in spite of it and not because of it... .R.S.E.: Make
the conclusion as good as the opening and we will
go so far as to call you sister, if -you like.... Kitty
Kitty: The only gladdening feature of your felo de se
story is the remark that the would-be suicide “re-
gained conscientiousness after taking the cyanide.”
There is nothing like a spasm of conscientiousness to
avert suicide Schweinhund: Readily believe that
old Dave was a rare spirit, as alleged, but the
roars you cite only represent literary near-beer. Send
along some of his vintage stuff and it will see print.
.... Beta: The details slop over so much you can’t
see the wood for trees Arthur Me.: Don’t like
any of them; and the “Spring” one is the worst....
A.1.P.: Nothing there... .A.L.M.: A great many men
were in Egypt lately. The only chance of novelty
is in having been in Egypt a long time ago—say
the time of Rameses 11... .Floater: Yes, you can
do that. Now try to swim P.V.R.: Horrible verse
about nothing at all Mary N.: Get something real
to write about. .. .E.D. (Balmain): Not up
J.L.S.: A sonnet has to be a lot better
than that... .Alias : The usual wobble and bump....
J.A.T.: Very dull sermon F.L.A.: You have the
material; now get the knack of natural story-telling.
.i. .P.J.C.W.: Those alphabet things are a plain
irritation K.K.K.: We don’t like them. They
have not nearly enough force to justify the depar-
ture from strict form Jenks: You spoil “wait-
ing” with the feeble humor of the finish.. .Samaroy:
Not up... .L.S.C.: “The Brown Cap” is marred by a
bad rhyme in the last stanza. There’s no reason
why you shouldn’t mend it Grampians: Of course
you’ve got a story to tell. Everybody has.. .R.F.C.:
All that Sahara of words to say what would have
gone in a short par J.J. (Melb.) : Insult in very
bad verse noted J.A.W.: No; the fake is too
transparent J.D.H.: Might have made a story,
but got spoiled in the making... .Mollie Bawn:
Verse and prose both go weakly Miss B. (Moree) :
The verse is heavy prose in spite of the rhymes
Max: No use Robin G.: What sort of an ear
have you to rhyme “near” with “idea”? T.8.D.:
Rotten verse Jim G.: “The Picnic” has points,
but it is a bit too loose and 10ng... .D.F.P.: Misses.
.... Oliver B.: Mystic fragment herewith:—
It was wet that morn, every hope came out shining
A little parcel that was given
To Harry when leaving for the Front and sighing;
I’d rather have that than I am living.
It was a pretty little silk hank., with his name on,
too;
Giver; by his girl, the very best he knew;
He could never forgive himself, what could he do?
It was lost, lost, that little silk parcel of blue.
Ah! that little parcel was found and sent, ,
By the next mail-boat that went;
If one could only realise what it meant,
To receive it when lying in his tent.
.... Pioneer: A man’s suit-length runs from 3yds. to
3fyds.; it doesn’t average more than 31b. or 3Jlb.
of w 001... .R.N.C.: Doesn’t strike u 5.... Peter J.:
No S.S.F.: Nothing there S.A.D.: Tiresome
stuff with no point J.R. (North Sydney): Those
trick forms are no good unless they say something.
Almost anybody can string rhymes with a bump in
the right place.... The ‘ Drummer: The tale gets
nowhere... .A.R.S.: A good long way from the
winning post Alice T.: There’s a hint of some-
thing that should be of value. Go on.. . .F.R.Mc.
(probably) : As far as we can read it it’s no good.
. ...P.A.J.: The dawn-morn rhyme in the very
first stanza, with jiggles and flounders to match!...
A.A.A.: Sheer commonplace Roy O.: Afraid you’re
not very sure of what you’re talking about J.F.:
Hasn’t the stuff in it R. J.M.: Thanks, but we
are not opening up a serious discussion of spiritual-
ism. It would certainly get to no definite conclu-
sions, and would be merely a disturbance. There’s
too much disturbance in the world already....
T.A.R.: But it has just been held in Sydney that
the docket must be stamped... .A.S.T.: Sorry, can’t
be done Austrabios: Every word of it is true, no
doubt. But what’s the use of telling the truth if
you make it so dull that it is never read? Goul-
burn: Get straight to it. Half your readers would
drop out for a drink before you got them up to the
facts Arthur K.: Post it to the girl. If that’s
the sort of thing she likes she' probably doesn’t
read The Bulletin Frosty: Nipped Dricky:
Much obliged ; glad to hear again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.G.: The hard-chivied gent, in the foreground
has had his leg pulled 10ft Wog: “Generous
Glow” is a dull thing... .L.G.8.: Some promise; but
a long way from print.... .F.D.M.: A poor little
effort D. M.: Hopeless L.W.: More skilful
caricatures got in ahead of you... 'E.C.: Perspective
as tangled as the joke.... W.H.C.: Both unplaced...
W.A.: Some humor and good observation; but your
draftsmanship is astray Tag: Why do you give
all your people gout ? Their extremities are most
painfully swollen Ferntree: One is acceptable as
an idea.
“Coolyah”: Pilkington, M.L.A. for Perth,
is certainly “grave and iconoclastic” (B.
4/H/’2O), but lie can give interjectors a
lick with the rough side of his tongue. At
one of his meetings an engine-driver who had
not had time to remove the coaldust asked if
I ilkington was in favor of a White Aus-
tralia. “Without wishing to be personal,”
replied Pilky, “I am.”
The fluent Hebrew who is collecting monish
in Australia and M.L. for the back-to-Pales-
tine movement might have mentioned, had
it occurred to him, that Europe is witness-
ing the greatest migration of Jews since the
Dark Ages. But the migrants are dropping
ashore at Noo Yoick, not at Jaffa or Bey-
rout. They are nearly all Noses from Poland
and the Ukraine, and they are crossing the
Atlantic at the rate of 20,000 a month.
Scourged by typhus, surrounded by bitterly
hostile States, and hating the Jew like poison,
Poland is about the best country in the
world for a peaceable Yiddisher to leave.
So the U.S. statistician expects to count
250,000 strange noses from Poland in the
course of a year. j


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246.
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 24,
VENTURA,
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £6/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
the;
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.g Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE. M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland.
Amerloa, Canada, South Afrioa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner QEORQE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 760,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,600,000)
Paid-up 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,620
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
~ fixed periods, and
transacts all other üßual Banking business.
Shipping, ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 18.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 16.
And every 28 days thereafter.
Special Tours for Honolulu Season,
December to March.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part ot the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grnnd Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. MARAMA, December 7.
R.M.S. TOFUA, JANUARY 7.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney* Dec. 2, Dec. 30.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 24* GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO,, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
•-
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks* Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 3,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
rrom ±llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
p. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
,-JH'r
Directors:
•r. {rfiO
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Heart Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle Street E C
30l Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
jBank o! Bu6tralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific,
3,% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.0.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping.
lst and 3rd-class passengers.
tCarries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
♦Carries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
§Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart ParkerU^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
ft 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.’’
Cable Address.
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. &■ O. S. N. Co*, (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Go. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union SiS. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marino), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug- and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooittown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
“INVINCIBLE 1 ’
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE .1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.


Cool Summer Ironing:
with the
WrttuwnL
Electric Iron.
Your first reason for considering an Electric Iron will probably
be because it saves standing over a hot stove on Summer days
—but these are some of the many other reasons why you should
choose the Hotpoint:—
It saves fussing with fuel or matches. It does not heat the
atmosphere—you can iron in the coolest corner of the house,
wherever a socket is handy. The Hotpoint becomes heated in
a few seconds; no walking from stove to board. It has an
attached stand which saves all clattering and banging. Simply
tip the Hotpoint back when not in use.
The Hotpoint has a thumb-rest which “rests the wrist.” This
exclusive feature also makes it easy to guide the iron into
the tucks and folds.
The 'hinged plug and wire protector reduce cord breakages and
increase' efficiency.
Obtainable from Electricians and Hardware Stores everywhere,
or direct from
WG WATSON&C°L TD
279 Clarence Si Sydney*
Telephones: 9967-8-9.
Telegrams: “SWITCHON.”
Banks’
Busk
Shower
For Use Outback or
for Week-end Camps.
THE BUSH SHOWER is
portable, all ready for put-
ting together, and is erected
in ten minutes.
Just work the handle and a
refreshing shower descends.
In winter the Bush Shower
will pump warm water
equally we;ll.
The Bush Shower consists
of a strong Semi-rotary
Pump, Galvanised Water
Pipe and Fittings, Copper
Shower Head, and Hose for
placing in water.
Send for one. Brings the
morn ing shower to the bush.
You supply the bucket and
wat^r—we supply the rest.
complete: 60/-
John Danks 8 Son
PTY. LTD.,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And at MELBOURNE.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in„ round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2}lb.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26/-
“Simple and extra strong in construction .”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37}in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
60/-
■j
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
33/'
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 6Jlb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206ft.'pounds; carriage
paid
£l3/5/
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
BIS. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s}lb. ..
Freight paid.
New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully -
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fiv- shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches lorfe. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target
work. Weightabout 711 b. Freight paid
£7(10/
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
open
4 51-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal , rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s|lb.
Freight paid,
£9/10/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 234 d. extra). Small sample, 1%d., post free.
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32,-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, 20in.
round barrel, weight about s|lb. Freight paid,
1892
full or
*B/15/-
*9
*7/17/6
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
BC
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
Make Weak Backs Strong.
iiiiiiiii**'
Mrs. B.
MORAN
(from a photo).
“I feel I must write and tell you
how Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills have
cured me. I was a great sufferer
with my kidneys, and tried a great
many things. At last I thought I
would try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
as my mother swears by them.
After taking one bottle I felt much
improved. I have since taken six
bottles, and I can only say I am
cured, and very grateful for it.
You may use this in the paper if
you wish, for I am more than
grateful for the result of taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
“Yours truly,
“(S,gd.) Mrs. B. MORAN,
“Arcadia, Grosvenor Street,
“Woollahra.’'
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you suffer %vith pains in your back or sides, or have any signs of Kidney
Trouble or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the eyes or in the feet or
ankles, if you are nervous, tired or run-down, or bothered with Urinary isor ctSj
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Troubles are the remedy which
will quickly relieve yoiuof your misery. They relieve the worst cases of Backache
and Kidney Trouble because they remove the cause of such troubles. They get to
the root of the matter, clean out the kidneys and make them filter out all the
poisonous waste matters and uric acids which lodge in the joints and muscles,
causing Rheumatism. They soothe and heal the bladder, and quickly relieve you.
They are a unique remedy entirely different from anything you have ever used.
There is nothing else to compare with them. No matter how old you are, or how
long you have suffered, the very principle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it
is practically impossible to take them into the human system without obtaining?
results. Take a bottle of these wonderful pills home to-night and try them for
yourself. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are sold in airtight, sealed glass containers, price
1/C, or in larger bottles, holding more than twice the quantity, for 2/6.
s.uopiaqSjd,
STIId NIO
backache.
and Kidney troubles
m
m
lb
Ink
Cleans
fLegula
'hUPM
elf
Briti3K
core
Ask
for
ONOTO
INK
“eat
for
Pan*
SPARKLETS
aife tkack. a^ciiii!
Thousands of Sparklet Syphons which have been lying idle for so
long are now getting back to duty. So long as you have cold water
and a Sparklet Syphon in the house you can forget the hot days. Used
with Spirits or Fruit Syrups
a Sparklet Syphon gives an
unlimited choice of cool
drinks at a trifling cost*—
much better than soda
drinks bought in shops.
See your chemist or store*
keeper now !
Old Sparklet Syphons put right free
We have all the spare parts and
will send them to you at once.
Then you can enjoy again those
delightful Spark-
let drinks which
taste so good and
cost so little
p~sr|-f
mask
A soda fountain on a tea-tray
FREE COUPON
To SPARKLETS Ltd., 42 Pitt Street, Sydney
Please send me Free ofCharge nesr Rubber Washers and Pm fur Sparklet Syphon bought about 19....
Tlame cAddress
S.B. 11/11/’2O
In Praise of Tea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
STEAM goes east and steam goes west
In a blue cloud over the brown;
But I shall love the hearth-steam best
Where heartsome tea-leaves drown.
Billy and kettle and caddy and spoon
And* the shining pannikin know the tune
Oh. the clatter of cups on the morning tray
Is music of magic to welcome the day!
11.
To this green dragon I bow.
China across the sea,
With a bamboo sail and a blunt prow,
Brought great gifts to me.
Glistening things of clay,
Treasures of carv&d wood,
A silken cloth like a summer day—
And these gifts were good.
But I was weary of toil,
Tired of things done —
Alike of the harvest and sudden spoil
And the beauty hammered and spun.
To this green dragon I bow;
For, lo! over the sea,
With a bamboo sail and a blunt prow,
Great China brought me tea.
111.
Heavily flows the wine
Red and golden ;
But silken and dream-fine
In a bright cup holden
Is the vintage that lifts me tenderly on
To healing and blessing,
Like a good thought when a fear is gone,
My heart caressing.
I shall be grateful for this:
The fragrance and bounty of te*
Made where green leaves kiss
Under a great tree;
And in dark, dripping days.
With cold mists clinging,
I shall give, thanks and praise
For kettles singing.
In the clear rising of steam
From a cup with a gold rim
There shall come a long dream;
And the far places and dim
Shall shine silverly white
In the mind’s own light.
For this, too, shall be praise
Of richer words and ways.
IV.
Clean, simple men of this wide land,
Sweet women looking far and long,
The bending years beneath your hand
Ripple and tremble into song.
The young hope flames, the sun is up.
Pledge the great working day with me!
Our hearths! Our homes! Lift high the
cup !
Our chosen vintage—heartsome tea !
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
“Goods and Passengers Dropped
Through Here.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A great deal of Australian jam reaches England
in bad condition, having deteriorated during the
journey through the tropics.” —Market report.
AND here or hereabouts the question
arises why Australian goods should
go snailwise to Europe through
anybody’s old tropics, taking circuitous
courses because of capes that stick out
and shoals that stick up, climbing up
the bulge in the globe’s middle (for the globe
has no waist and no small to its back), slid-
ing down the other side of the bulge as if
the ship were a fat man dismounting from
an elephant, and struggling over fences of
latitude and longitude which aren’t even
rabbit-proof. It seems absurd when one
considers that jam and sundries could be
dropped through and reach the other side
in probably eight hours. Passengers- could
go the same way in the same time. Mails
with a brick or an anchor tied to the bag
to increase the weight and velocity and to
speed the parting guest might cover the dis-
tance in a shorter period.
Strong, cheap, abundant and reliable
motive power is in demand. Gratis and
inexhaustible and unlimited motive power is
in great demand. As regards the supply,
coal is scarce, dear, heavy, dirty, subter-
ranean, explosive and subject to strikes.
Water-power is pitifully scarce in Australia,
and even a little of it requires a lot of
harnessing. Where there is an Australian
river it is often so weak that it requires to
be pushed or dragged along with a rope
round its neck, instead of having push-
power to give away. Wind, which is more
plentiful here than water and seldom stops,
is cheap, costing only canvas or windmill
mechanism, but it is unreliable. For the
run across Australia from west to east
there would be a certain glory about
a schooner-rigged train, with its can-
vas scraping the clouds and the kangaroo
fleeing before it and the rabbit dispersing
behind it. But for back loading the pre-
vailing air currents are poor.
Actually the one motive force which costs
nothing and works like Sheol all the time
is gravitation. Anybody who drops 1000 ft.
off a cliff must be impressed by the fact that
the pace is great and the expense nil. The
collision at the end of the trip is the only
drawback. When this is eliminated, and
jumping up is made as swift and economical
as jumping down, the neglected force of
gravitation will have a future. To fall
down for nothing and to fall up on the nod
or free list is the acme of economy.
The question of making the first double-
barrelled hole through the earth (others will
naturally follow) must be soon considered.
There may be such holes made by Nature,
which is a bottomless and inscrutable
female, but they aren’t known, and it is safe
to bet that they aren’t straight. Nature
never made a straight thing since she was
born. She can’t even drop a waterfall quite
vertically. The distance through the earth
is, I believe, 7000 or 8000 miles, and even
Australia, with its mere 5,000,000 people,
has built nearly four times that mileage in
railways alone, and hasn’t paid for any of
it. Almost certainly there are in existence
twice or thrice as many times 7000 miles
of artificial orifice —horizontal orifice for
trains, water supply, drainage, mining enter-
prise, catacombs and subterranean passages
used by conspirators, and the perpendicular
variety of tube for mining. This takes no
account of temporary orifices for Christian
burial. But these are all spasmodic and
disjointed. Consecutive hole is required.
The cost of the venture is a matter of
speculation. Beyond a very limited depth
nothing is known. The earth a few miles
beyond the range of our acquaintance may
be adamant or sponge. The centre may be
water with granite floating on top of it. It
may be air, gas, space, vacancy—a gigantic
and perhaps closely settled cavern with
trees growing downward from the roof and
upward from the floor, and blind, bubbly,
gassy people of no weight, or very short
weight, walking on nothing in among them.
The hole might cost less than nothing, pay-
ing for itself in the value of minerals taken
out. I am sanguine on this point, because
the Bottomless Pit Gold Mining Co. in which
I hold shares hasn’t taken anything out, so
there must be all the more left in. Any-
how, the venture would pay something in
romance long before the first express dropped
through gratis on the longest non-stop run
any man has yet taken before he was dead.
Romance is a golden thing, and the world
wants more of it.
Still there is some basis to estimate on.
For instance, the subterranean railways of
London show figures like these: —
Annual
Original Working
Cost Expenses
per mile. per mile.
Central £615,614 £22,333
City-South London .. 376,478 10,754
Great Northern-City .. 694,672 13,709
North London .. .. 292,900 21,530
The Great Perpendicular Railway should
cost a mere fraction of these construction
figures. There would be no city to under-
pin. The only thing above it would be the
sky, and that keeps itself up. There would
be no roadbed to make and maintain. The
roadbed would be air. No landlords would
require to be compensated except at the two
ends of the hole, unless the shadowy, bubbly
ponulation in the middle of the globe took
action, in the gaseous local court, and they
would probably burst when our atmosphere
came in contact with them. Then there
would be no haulage expenses save for the
last few miles of the run, where gravitation
must fail. Probably £lOOO per mile per
annum would more than cover working
charges, and on the North London average
an annual saving of £20,530 per mile per
annum would result —enough to pay off the
whole cost of construction at the North Lon-
don rate in 30 years, even if there were no
takings at all. In fact, if the saving was
capitalised in advance, as it was proposed
to do with our share of the Hun indemnity,
which was also something of a cavern, as
it never came, the line would start with a
surplus and would show a profit even if it
didn’t get to work at all. This is pure John
Storey finance, and therefore sound.
As already hinted, the trouble in the
traffic branch is that no train can go quite
the whole way by gravitation, owing to air-
friction and possibly other causes. The last
stage will be an up-grade—the only one on an
otherwise dead-level line, i The tendency
must be for the single vehicle —they will all
be single vehicles, of course—to gradually
slow down and stop a few miles short of its
destination. Then, if left to its own de-
vices, it will reverse and reverse again,
slowing down all the time till at last it
anchors itself,: for ever in the middle of
things and degenerates into an obstruction.
Obviously each car must be fitted with a
powerful motor attachment similar to that
of an aeroplane, to be set in motion when
the halfway house—the one where the
bubbly people live —is passed, and thus give
the necessary additional lift. There may also
be spring brakes, like those used on some of
the cages that go up and down mining
shafts, to grip the sides of the shaft and
arrest the backwardation should the motor
fail at the final stage. Then the derelict
could either be hauled up with ropes, or
driven out by compressed air, or (possibly)
the far end of (he tunnel might be sealed
and the obstruction pumped out. Owing to
the possible accumulation at the centre of
the earth of foreign substances without pro-
pellers—fallen cows (though it should be
possible to guard against them), suicides,
rainwater, meteorites, birds and stones
dropped in by anarchists —regular pumping
arrangements would be necessary. There
would be SHicides at first to a certainty
unless great care was taken. As likely as
not 10,000 morbid cranks would be filled
with a resolve to be the first down.
It will be the red-letter day of the world
when the work is opened, and the sign “Goods
and Passengers Dropped Through Here” is
unveiled at each end, and the first passenger
train is ready to start at each end
simultaneously. There will be a double tun-
nel, of course, and each line will be
a down-line to begin with and an up-line
to finish with. The vehicles on that
memorable first trip will be loaded either with
the best politicians or the ones who can be
best spared. The inevitable banquets will
be held. One end will orate about the great-
ness of the empire and the necessity for
hanging on to Ireland. The other end will
hold forth about the greatness of the natural
resources ana the necessity for another loan,
or a lot more loans. Then the start will be
made —that is to say, each car with its cargo
of talkers will vanish like a shadow dropping
in the dark or the baseless fabric of a
dream. It will be seen one moment and gone
in the tenth part of a moment. About (say)
eight hours later, with good luck, each vehicle
will bound up like a kangaroo or a geyser
or a pantomime demon at its terminus, and
the sliding lid will at once be put on to pre-
vent retrogression or backsliding. With
medium luck one car or both may have to
be fished or pumped out. With really bad
luck neither may be heard of again. If all
attempts at rescue fail it may have to be
reluctantly admitted that the greatest work
on record has gone askew in its infancy.
Thereupon an impressive funeral service, far
bigger than that: held for Victoria the queen,
will be held. Or rather four of them will be
held, one at each end of each shaft. Also
(Continued on next page.)


PROFESSIONAL EVIDENCE
'll,.
, 'Sfe/
%, H
Ui'J, U «
Nurse Francis
{from, a photo).
Well-known Nurse’s Tribute to
Zam-Buk’s Wonderful Healing.
FRANCIS, residing at 109 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, is a thoroughly qualified ladies’nurse,
who has had a wide and varied experience with Zam-Buk. For theftenefit of fellow sufferers she tells of her
experiences, and writes:— 1
“ The Zam-Buk Co.,
“ Dear Sirs,—My experience with Zam-Buk has been extensive and
varied. I was getting a bottle down off a shelf, whew the bottle smashed in my
hand as I grasped it tightly in trying to save myselif from falling. A piece of
the glass severed one of my fingers, cutting right through the bone. The finger
was hanging by a piece of flesh. I had it dressed with Zam-Buk by a friend,
and bound up tightly. I kept Zam-Buk applied, and tfeie flesh and bone knitted
together. The irregular knitting of the bone can still be felt, but the finger
itself regained its usefulness completely, thanks to Zam-Buk.
“Some time ago my little girl Sheila met with\an accident, in which
she poisoned her finger. In washing out the house sheiwas* using a disinfectant,
and it got into the injury and blood-poison developed. Sh*e had a fearful hand
in consequence. I took her to a doctor, and after much discussion he thought
the only way to prevent it developing seriously was to amputate the finger.
This I would not consent to have done, so I thought il would treat her myself,
and I did so, using Zam-Buk. It was pleasing to find that It proved most effective, as it took all the inflaotiknation and matter away and
reduced the swelling, and after treating her for three weeks she was perfectly cured and the hand saved.
“Another experience I had with Zam-Buk was when my son Stephen fell over a cliff at Bondi, a fail otf 30Tfeet, and injured himself.
As a consequence he broke out in ulcers on the back and elsewhere, and ho suffered greatly
from them. Zam-Buk, however, again did wonderful service and healed them thoroughly
Six years ago my son also had his toes crushed by a cart, two of them having to be token
off, and the stumps were healed by Zam-Buk.
In my profession I have also used it for my patients, and it has proved wonderful in
every case in the rapidity of its healing powers.
The experiences here stated can be personally verified by me if consulted at my address,’
(Signed)
BE ON
YOUR
GUARD
AGAINST
SUBSTITUTION;
SEE YOU
GET ZAM-BUK,
THE PROVED
RELIABLE
HEALER.
Zam-Buk is the perfect healer
for Cuts, Burns, Bruises,
Scalds, Boils, Eczema, Pimples,
Sores, Scalp Troubles, Poisoned
Wounds, Festering Sores, Bad
Legs, Ulcers. Abscesses, Ring-
worm, Barber’s Rash and
Injured and Diseased conditions
of the skin. Zam-Buk is
also invaluable as an em-
brocation for Rheuma-
tism, Stiffness and Sprains.
Zam-Buk is obtainable
from all Chemists and
Stores, at 1/0 per pot, and
3/6 large size, or direct
from C. E. Fulford (Aus.),
39 Pitt Street. Sydney.
the great hemler.
four of the best monuments obtainable for
love or money will be thrown in to show that
the world is not ungrateful, and the un-
fortunate argonauts will sleep with tomb-
stones at their head and feet.
I have only dealt, of course, with outlines
and great general principles. Technicalities
of construction are for engineers, to whom I
leave them with confidence.
JAMES EDMOND.
Signor Coeni’s Triumph.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF Moses Cohen, proprietor and conduc-
tor of Coeni’s jazz orchestra, had real-
ised that the shaft of sunlight in the
gully was glinting on a piece of glass, the
guests of the Lord Mayor would not have
read Heaven and Hell in each others eyes,
and the ball would not have been a thing
to whisper about.
But Moses saw in the stab of sunlight the
promise of a shilling, if not a sovereign, and
he strode from the golden bush-road and
forced his way through the arms of saplings
and ferns down into the cool depths of the
gully, feeling an interest which had not been
his since he left his home in the city.
As he went the trees laiiglied together and
the web of leaves closed about him; and
presently, having discovered that the sun
was wasting its kisses, Moses Cohen —or
Signor Coeni, as the case might be —found
that he did not know his way back to the
comfort of the road again. The trees
swayed and laughed; the little creek whis-
pered its merriment; birds, bright of eye,
fluttered with tremendous noise in the still-
ness—and Moses Cohen was afraid.
With the heavy step of the man who is
going nowhere, he blundered deeper and
deeper into the green depths, where every-
thing was soft and damp and silent. The
bush, having recovered from its first, aston-
ishment, took the squat figure to its heart
as the best joke that had happened for a ■
long time. . Of a sudden Moses Cohen became
Signor Coeni and his black mo- vfache
trembled with astonishment.
“By crikey!” was all he said. With his
head on one side lie stood and listened. Down
the gully came the voice of a flute played
by a magician. Music had no part in
Signor Coeni’s orchestra, but the talented
conductor knew a noise which set the feet
tripping and the blood stirring when he heard
it. That was his art. He stood and listened,
breathless, for assuredly this was a noise
calculated to make the fame and fortune of
Signor Coeni if it could be captured. He
prided himself upon being practical, but even
Moses Cohen saw beautiful things among
the leaves as he paused. A thousand little
lips of flame were kissing him, and the trees
ceased laughing as they saw an oily man
peeping .suddenly, for the first time, into the
heart of all things.
_“Vy stand here, my poy? Get pizzy!”
said Moses Cohen to Signor Coeni hotly,
and the command was so imperative that "it
was obeyed. The large feet went on through
the tendrils of ferns which wei*e as fresh and
young as the heart of a lark. The flautist
was stalked.
A naked, deformed lad—horribly deformed,
almost beyond human likeness —sitting on a
great mossy log with his lips to his flute;
a round Jew with a shaft of light glinting
on his locks, and a greasy “boxer” swung
low in salute—Signor Coeni had found Pan!
What Pan thought of Signor Coeni cannot
be written here, but Mr. Cohen knew that
the deformed boy was a gold-mine. They
studied each other in astonishment; but
there was a command in Signor Coeni’s eyes,
a look of hungry delight, that held Pan spell-
bound, that enmeshed his fleet soul in a net
of bewilderment.
There was an oily strength about the con-
ductor that subjugated Pan. If you have
had any dealings with Signor Coeni you will
understand.
“You play nice,” he said. “Very nice ! It
is pizzness I tell you, my poy, pizzness. You
vill play in my orchestra and I shall pay
you tree pounds a veek. Is it a go?”
Pan looked upon the round figure in .silent
amaze.
“Then it is four pounds!” exclaimed the
eager conductor.
The silent stare was unchanged.
“Five pounds and not a penny more, or
you can go to pilly-ho !”
The deformed- boy made no reply, and
before making a further offer Moses Cohen,
as a precaution, turned upon his heel as
though to walk. away. To his delight the
amazing flautist followed him.
“That's petter, my son,” said Moses, and
took the. poor boy’s arm with a gesture of
affection. Pan shivered, but was over-
whelmed. Meekly he walked beside the
conductor, who was now listening to music
beyond words, to music beyond even the
pipes of Pan—in short, to the profits of the
golden future.
With such an accompaniment the feet of
Moses Cohen were inspired and found their
way to the road without difficulty. But
though he had been silent his brain had not
been idle. He knew that the latest member
of his orchestra was more than eccentric in
appearance, and that he would excite aston-
ishment. Therefore, with an unusual prayer
for privacy upon his lips, he hurried him
along the edge of the road to his motor-car
—hurried him along and bundled him be-
neath the cover with a sigh of relief.
For looses Cohen owned a motor-car, since
his orchestra made strange sounds at all the
nicest functions. He was returning to the
city after a brief but boring holiday to play
for the Lord Mayor, and his clothes were in
the back of the car. He did a terrible thing
to Pan. Too delighted and anxious to dwell
upon the strangeness of the hairy deformity,
he thrust him into a pair of baggy trousers,
he hid his hoofs in boots, and he crammed a
black hat upon his head. He manufactured
an old youth, with a diseased hip and the
eyes of lunacy, out of a god. And looking
upon his work and finding it good, Moses
Cohen sang a little song while Pan whim-
pered, like a ’possum which is nigh to death
by terror in a rough grip.
But Signor Coeni was kind to his new
musician. He explained 'to him that if he
didn’t like the life he could come back to
the bush again; he promised him a contract
which his people could place before a soli-
citor; he assured him that everything was
above-board. Most of all, it was essential
that he should play that night if he never
played again.
As he received no answer, Moses Cohen
felt justified in starting the machine and
driving off. It was palpably his duty to
hand the lunatic over to the proper authori-
ties—in due course. As a precaution he
kept him under close guard all that day
at his home, and locked his wife in the bath-
room in case she should hear the music of
the flute. Such sounds are not good for
the ears of women.
* * * *
Everyone agreed that the ball was dull.
They were saying it within three seconds
of greeting my Lord Mayor, almost before
they were out of earshot. But my Lord
Mayor, conscious of good money spent,
beamed upon all-comers, and whispered to
his lady that a knighthood was a certainty
if they could keep their reign up to this
standard.
Only one person in the hall realised how
high the standard was, and he was Signor
Coeni, ensconsed among ferns far more be-
wildering than those he had been in that
morning. Signor Coeni, shiny as a black
spaniel, was ruling his orchestra with a
hand of velvet and iron. For his orchestra
was unhappy. Its members objected to the
earthy smell of their new companion; they
did not like his looks; they thought he made
them ridiculous. But these things were
screened from the popiulace by the wealth of
leaves.
“Rotten music!” drawled the bored young
man to the doctor’s wife, as they cannoned
off a corn merchant on to a lieutenant-
general. Everybody seemed to be saying the
same thing. Nobody knew of the trouble
in the orchestra, or of Signor Coeni’s magic
wine which was being, saved for a while.
The lieutenant-genertal and all the lesser
generals, the admiral and all the men who
looked as though thesy should have been
admirals, the merchgmts—all that staid
throng of dull people with their wives and
daughters bumped round and round the room
like a mass of logs, atnd the music wailed.
My Lord Mayor detected it wailing. He
went to Signor Coeni in person. He
appealed to him.
“My Lud Mayor,” s»id Signor Coeni, “the
next dance will pe divine. Tell your guests
the next dance will be such music as has
never peen heard before.”
His Worship went away with a doubting
heart, and Signor Coejni gawe Pan his fifth
glass of champagne lest he should feel
nervous. Then, furtively, he produced the
pipes, and the deformed player fell upon them
a little breath of joy.
“You will pe silent.” he told the other
players, and that finished th am. Like a long
string of black beetles they filed off the plat-
form. and my Lord Mayor trembled for a
second on the threshold of arpoplexy.
Then someone behind thatt bed of leaves
played the flute.
Signor Coeni. looking uijon Pan as he
crouched over his beloved pipes, a ridiculous
figure in his baggy clothes, held his breath.
Tiie boy was drunk, and wonderful beyond
all words of praise. His curled lips kissed
his weird flute in rapture; his eyes were
things seen in the dark night where the
trees are tremendous. Even Signor Coeni
knew that this was a player outside his
knowledge—rapturous to the point of danger.
Pan played.
Youth that had never lived before, mirth
that had never bubbled before, passion that
had been buried deep, gladness that had
died in the cradle—all these things suddenly
sprang out naked and splendid in eyes and
lips and flesh. The mad music cried and
sang, shouted and wept, fled up and down
the stifling hall and turned the mayoral ball
into a revelation.
There was a second’s hush, and then the
whirlwind.
Peering through the leaves, Signor Coeni
himself was aghast. Never had he seen such
a thing. Fat men were dancing prodigiously
and with a wild merriment; thin dames
spun in the rapturous embrace of youth; in
a wild abandon all that was best and highest
and most respected in the city was hopelessly
and gloriously drunk —drunk beyond mortal
knowledge with delirious delight.
And looking into each other’s eyes part-
ners—quite nice, proper partners—saw
Heaven and Hell.
Pan piped and the citizens whirled in a
frantic dance. The lights spun, the hall
revolved, the air was ablaze with color, and
men knew they were gods and beasts. They
danced with Pan, and Pan was drunk.
Signor Coeni, master conductor, craning
his neck in astonishment, slipped and fell
crashing from the platform, carrying with
him thirty guineas' worth of pot-plants. No-
body noticed the incident. But through the
gap Pan’s eyes looked out and saw the
thing he had ddne—saw a sea of flesh and
blood ripe for anything; saw all the dread-
ful mass of the city whirling and pirouetting,
hungry and thinking dangerous thoughts.
Pan was appalled.
He saw the face of the lieutenant-general,
he saw the face of the Governor’s wife, he
saw it all in one quick sweep of his fright-
ened eyes, and then he dropped his flute.
He had lifted a mass of dreary human beings
to the bliss of the gods, and it was beyond
them. He had lit djj.ll hearts with the magic
of the dappled lights that the leaves weave;
and he was sobered by the result. In the
enforced absence of Signor Coeni, Pan was
himself again for the first time that day.
Quick as a frightened hare he sprang into
life.
The black hat was flung from his head,
the funereal garments of Moses Cohen fell
from him; then a hairy form fled up over
the organ seats, scrambled among the gilt
pipes, balanced for a second on the window-
ledge. blackly blotting out the stars, and
was gone.
Below a thousand shocked faces balanced
and glowed by turns, and there was a wild
surge of repentance and regret, a sobbing
sigh of relief and disappointment.
“O my God!” cried my Lord Mayor in
a voice of anguish, and fainted into a moist
mountain of flesh.
Hundreds followed his example.
DALE COLLINS.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
-
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HO RUCKS
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grams
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Files, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
eS} PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in' Europe and at _ home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, ipeet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
f
////
%
z
z
z
ooj. auios pern i
Everybody
should try this
NEW flavour
It is refreshing, sweet,
friend to young and old.
3d. per
packet
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
Send 3d* for a trial
packet to
WRIGLEY*S
Box 2376* G.P.O*.
Sydney*
G
W 52
THINGS WILL SOON
hOOK HP
WITH you
/
‘"•%r
'
R-miKS
9NIWI V3JJU
m fwmiii
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
:::iiu
Used since 1596.
CURES
Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton's"—refuse all substitutes.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver t®
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness /
Constipation,
and Melancholy assail/
you, resulting in lackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health;
but remember
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills touch
the liver and cure
. , TRADE mark
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how*
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dote—Small Prlca.
G 1
be:
ENUINE must
ar signature
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Precision
Fire
In every instance the Remington
Idodel 51 Automatic Pistol per-
forms its task with precision.
The flat matted sighting rib, mat-
ted to prevent the gleam o£ re-
flected light, and the low sights
peculiar to this pistol alone, have
proved a great aid to exact shoot-
ing.
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber. 480 f length,
6 5/8 in.; thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21
ounces unloaded; finish, dull black; magazine
holds seven cartridges, one extra cartridge in chamber, i
Cartridges, 480 APH (9 m/m Browning Short) rim-
less automatic standard metal cased of
soft pointed, the same cartridge as ia
used in other American Automatic
Pistols of this caliber.
fiemlngtojk
ppr_Sh'oottn§Righl
o»' m»‘
remington arms company, Ilia
D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia


fMANCROVITB?
LEATHER
Kfia •«.
It is the power transmitted, not the power
generated, that governs your output and,
incidentally, your profits. Your generating'
plant may be in perfect condition yet you
may be constantly losing power and money.
You can ensure against such a contingency,
however, by connecting your pulleys with
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE
BELTING. It is strong, flexible and abso-
lutely reliable. Let our experts advise you
on all transmission problems.
Mang'rovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
ManßanaMelbourne
INCREASE YOUR PROFITS.
Run vour chaffcutter to its full capacity. Constant'resharpening of knives means
loss of time anil profits.
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE" Chaffcutter Knives
hold a keen cutting edge for a remarkable time; the high-
quality, specially-tempered steel used is the reason,
ijade for Buncle, Richmond & Chandler, Bentall, and Cliff
& Bunting machines.
For prompt attention address inquiries for prices to
Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgroorlie
Cliff St, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
»*• Tv; *#! '<•
v.;< <•' ;.v •>;.
&
FibroTSTi
GENUINE ASBESTOS
We are Sole Agents for "Fibrolite”
Australian-made Genuine Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Slates, “Fibre-C 1 * Cold Water
Paint, and suppliers of the following build-
ing materials. We can consequently quote
you at the best-obtainable prices.
“FIBERLIC” Building Board.
“CREOWOOD” Stains.
“REXIEITE” British-made Roll Roofing
and Dampcourse.
“CERTAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
3-BEY Wood Einings.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc.
Write for Price List and Particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 5456 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
' Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
SMOOTH-ON.
WE HAVE PLEASURE IN INTRODUCING TO THE MOTOR TRADE
These Cements are unequalled for stopping leaks of
Steam, Water, Fire or Oil, because they become
Metallic Iron that has the same contraction and expan-
sion as iron, thus keeping the joints tight at all
temperatures. SMOOTH-ON Cements are chemically
prepared iron compounds, and used by mixing with
water, and for 101 jobs in the garage are invaluable.
*>. •
TRADEMARK
Cl
REG.U.S.PAT.OFF!
the SMOOTH-ON IRON CEMENTS
SMOOT R ? ON No. 1 and 2. For repairing' Leaks or Breaks in Castings,
and for making connections in Steam or Hydraulic work. They withstand fire.
Must be applied to cold metal. PRICE 3/9 per lb., in powder form.
SMOOTH-ON No. 3. Specially prepared for use on all Seams of Boilers
or Tanks to. stop leaks, also for Boiler Patching and for Screw-thread Joints.
Can be applied to hot metal. 3s. ild. lb-.- in paste form.
SMOOTH-ON No. 4. Is an Iron Cement for repairing Blemishes, Blow-
holes, or Defects in Iron or Steel Castings. Sold in powder form.
PRICE 3/6 lb.
SMOOTH-ON MOTOR REPAIR PACKAGES. For Roadside and
Garage Repairs. Contains 1 can each No. 1 and No. 3 Smooth-On, and 1 roll
Smooth-On Tape. 8/6 complete.
SMOOTH-ON RADIATOR COMPOUND, in 111., packages. It finds
and stops the leak while you wait, will not affect the Cooling System, or cause
the Motor to overheat. PRICE 3/- per %lb. Can.
SMOOTH-ON IRON CEMENT. Household-size Canisters, suitable for
repairing leaks in all kinds of Iron Vessels. PRICE 2/6 per Can.
The House for Motor Engineers* Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
%
.LA. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £32/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D.SW. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
High - Pressure Brasswork
to All Australian Water Board Standards
Also Guaranteed, Factory Tested, Medium Lines.
PUMPS.
Alderdice Limited,
Warrnambool, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
ustralas
'
an Office—
ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
GtiltruUa Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ELDER,
Adelaide
AGENTS—
SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane Perth
“Ask the Man Who Owns One.”
ft
Nearly everywhere you will find a satisfied
Delco-Light user. These users, in expressing
their satisfaction, show that Delco-Light is the
Electric Light and Power Plant for aflyone
wanting good, dependable electric service.
SOLE AGENTS:
New South Wales:
WAR BURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 309 Kent
Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
WARBURTON, FRANKI. LTD., 380
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland:
SMELLIE & CO,, LTD., Brisbane.
“There’s a Satisfied User Near You.”
Modern High-Speed Lathes and
Machine Tools for every operation
The world s greatest manufacturers and captains of industry owe their successes in part to the use of
up-to-date plant. They employ equipment that makes quality-quantity production their certain
defence against competitors using old-fashioned methods. We offer the most modern machines and
tools for every operation, all by world-famous makers. Ask us particulars of
Lathes, Machines, Shapers, Pipe and Bolt Screwing Machines, Radial and Upright Drilling
Machines, Hacksaws, Grinders, and every needed tool for the busy machine shop.
CALL OR WRITE. PRICES ARE ATTRACTIVE.
PARKE ©. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ws&am*
\
>
