

Gold Seal
Art-Rua's
IMPORTANT
LOOK FOR THE
“GOLD SEAL. ”
If s your Guarantee .
MIT-RUO* AHD
jiooa-covnuKO*
SEAL
cow>
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
Ott TOUR HONEY WILL
refunded
BE
CIOTH WTLLB AMOVE
A CAMP
W A
STICKS TO GOOD*
y
SEAL
IMPORTANT
THERE IS
ONE GRADE
ONLY.
Congoleum Floor-Coverings are for
the housewife who wishes to have
her floors attractive, sanitary, easy
to clean—all at a low price.
IN these days of high prices it is
pleasing to know that one can
still get beautiful, sanitary, easy-
to-clean rugs for little money.
Congoleum Art-Rugs meet
perfectly the nation-wide necessity
for economy in the home. At the
same time they have all the style of
expensive woven rugs, but are made
of a durable material with a smooth,
waterproof, printed surface that does
not collect dirt and moisture to
menace your health.
A few moments with a damp mop
brings back the charm and beauty of
these rugs. ~ .
Besides, they have the remarkable
feature of requiring no fastening to
the floor and will not curl or “kick-
up” at the edges.
To be bad of all
First-class Dealers.*
*v
" They are *a beautiful
you would never, guess
they cost so l
patterns for every room in the house.
Beautiful, waterproof, sanitary and durable.
Sizes
3ft. x 9ft.
4£ft. x 9ft.
6ft. x 9ft.
7£ft. x 9ft,
9ft. x
9ft. x 12ft.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41. —No. 2125.
Thursday, November 4, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


library CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted"
to My address on application.
DYMOCK S BOOK ARCADE, LTD 4?S
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advx.
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
USE
WAN
USE
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed\ Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Pari*, Sydney, Toronto
MY COMMON-
PLACE BOOK
By J. T. HACKETT.
15/- net (but see note below).
No less than FipY-SIX LEADING JOURNALS have
already spoken highly of this charming collection of
interesting quotations with the author's no less
interesting comments, as in the following brief
extracts ;—
“Tli<> book is one to have ami to read. To
quote Mme. de Sevign6, it is like a basket of
cherries; one begins by picking out the reddest
and ripest, and ends by eating them all. The
very changes of subject are enticing; we
know not what the next page will be, whether
grave or gay, prose or verse, epigram or epi-
taph. There is no strain on the attention ; the
hook would be an ideal companion In a ham-
mock or on u punt; equally admirable when
.warming oneself before tea in the present
unspeakable weather.”— Saturday Review.
“Mr. Hackett’s sense of humor is as alert
as his intellectual sympathy. All moods of
the mind are reflected in his excerpts, and there
are pages of laughter no less than of tears
and dreams.... We can scarcely imagine a
better bedside book, or one that can be con-
sulted with a wider variety of interest.”—
Daily Telegraph.
“Mr. Hackett’s book fascinates me, his
catholic and at the same time scrupulous
taste, his valuable and important annotations
to the extracts.... His book is an appealing
changeling among modern publications and
singularly refreshing.”— Nation.
“This delightful volume is likely to be of
the greatest use to literary students Not
the least valuable part of the book is the
comment.' Mr. Haekett, out of his richly-
stored mind, recalls-at. every turn the affinity
and application of the ideas of the great
poets, prose stylists and thinkers whom he
quotes.... Men like Mr. Haekett, with their
passionate love of true literature, are likely
to play a great part in the revival of English
literature.” -— Contem;>'""ry Review.
The first edition of this book was long ago
sold out in London and a second edition has
been issued; BUT SOME COPIES OE THE
FIRST EDITION CAN STILE BE HAD IN
AUSTRALIA AT 15/4 NET. After these are
exhausted copies of the second edition will
cost 18/6.
GOLFERS
ATEST
ESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutos
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 16/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 5/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff'
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
T
EE*™
mm
NAMES
The Best You Can Get
for Marking Linen
Whether Household or Personal—en-
sures your property against loss. Any
Name woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Always ready to be sewn
to any garment or article on any material
Prices— 12doz. 4/6. 6doz. 3/3,3d0z. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
Australian Mutual
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. ' .. £6,000.000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
[fw
Sh
y
-3L
The Red Page
Kendall
Whatever the defects or merits of tli
work Henry Kendall left, he was the firs
authentic singer of a whole continent. Goi
ton ta veiy little Australian about him; th
o hi \ oiees of the early years were neithe
enough nor sweet enough to endui
sin £ ri i n r y : A, bl V ? endal , 1 ’ Australian-born an
rmmpv J^ ustrallai > themes, was the for.
into new f fi a m eW w t er ’ tlle true Path-finde
reached hutever hei S hts may b
narn mn.t ose who come after, Kendall*
na “ e mas t always stand first.
arn .L m"! ° f , H g nr V Kendall, with Bio
K te Bert ram Stevens (Angu
attLw> ltSoli i’ Sydue y), is the first seriou
noet^ l xlma ma o e a complete collection of th
- Sotatetiiing is still left out, and
n, ? v. Wi r ly ’ f °’' to P ical skits and chanc
if l l ' Ch iaa y hav « been amusing enoug
(•1 ° f thea ’ uews Paper publication
can have no permanent value ; but a numbe
of early pieces which have not hitherto beei
desires fo /',? iut l rest fo ? the student whe
desnes to follow the poet s growth and arc
included in the new book. Other work fron
the Mitchell Library is no"
pi inted foi the first time. The whole makes
a volume of 074 pages, which will hold its
a f rv e « taadaid edition ; and while tin
lanm of Kendall can gain nothing from tin
added matter, the compilation should be very
welcome in every Australian library.
Ine lnaiix interest of the book, however; is
f< f ,u ? d ia Abe biographical note. The
fetoij of Kendall is there told by Bertram
btevens m broad outline; and a good deal ol
tresh light is thrown upon the man. The
author makes no attempt at an elaborate
biography, but something of the character ot
the first Australian poet can be seen in the
close narrative of events. There we find
Gordon and Kendall mourning together over
the lack of recognition of genius on the part
©1 the pubhc, though both seem to have
secured in their time a great deal of notice
for a small amount of work. It was, indeed
recognition at too early a stage of his develop-
ment which made the underlying tragedy of
Kendalls life. Because the few praised his
work he was unable to understand why the
public did not rush to buy it. Yet sweet as
was his occasional song, his range was very
nanow, and it is doubtful whether in
any age in any country he could have had a
iliuch greater circle of readers during his life-
time. Kendall appears to have had many
sincere friends and helpers, but he was self-
centred to the last, with his eyes set more
upon his reputation and rewards than upon
his work. That he suffered a great deal is
certain; that most of his suffering was more
or less self-inflicted seems to be equally so.
Bertram Stevens does not award praise or
blame; he merely tells the story simply and
well. There is a page of Kendall’s hand-
writing in the volume and a portrait. The
writing is distinctly unusual—a precise and
beautiful script in which each character is
formed separately as in printing. No modern
typewriting could be easier to read; and
even his signature is in the same style.
No indication is given of the verses which
have come direct from the Mitchell Library-
manuscripts, so a close comparison with older
collections is.necessary to determine what is
now printed for the first time; but the book
itself is every way satisfactory.
Words and Pictures
Going clown Ludgate Hill the first whiff:
Of it caught my eager nostrils. A good half-
mile from its heroic centre I felt the heavy
stamp of printing presses shaking the pave-
ment. The first outposts began to wave
their signs above my head, and soon I wqs
stumbling through a jungle of prints. The
names of French, Italian, Chinese and South-
American journals glowed above me. I
caught the names of all the big Australian
journals. The air, heavy with the smell of
printer’s ink and paper, was full of strange
noises, and out of the narrow byways where
the early London fog still lay, crept red-
eyed sub-editors and tired compositors.
Gigantic cylinders of white paper wrapped
in grey were being lowered into the bowels
of dingy buildings. Other buildings, like
black spiders, were spinning out the web of
printed words, which green and scarlet
motor-vans, gay as tropic- birds, bore out
into the world. Into the main artery of
!• Icet-street burst the first roar of London
traffic, and billheads began to shriek, whine
expostulate and leer. The devoted citizens!
unprotected by gas-masks, came pouring into
that barrage of words, subtle and intimidat-
ing, exciting and corrupt. By 0 o’clock
morning papers which had flooded the street
corners were beginning to disappear ; at 10
the ’evening” papers budded forth and
vanished, and at 11 the late editions were
appearing. Standing at the junction of
Fleet and Whitefriars streets I became
drunk with rumor, gorged with canards,
stunned by the repercussion of events whose
gradual development is transformed by jour-
nalistic craft into a rattling discharge like
machine-gun fire, as if human evolution
were unfolding itself in the manner of a
Wild West movie scenario.
There is in all the world no street quite
so mad and so wonderful as Fleet-street.
From one editor’s sanctum I was shown
across the way the shadowy form behind a
wire-gauze screen of the queen bee of the
hive, the managing-editor who sways the
passions, fears and prejudices of a million
human souls. Fatal and tremendous power !
I wonder if he sleeps at night. My editor
was tired of swaying human souls. He
asked me earnestly about the chances of
going on the land in Australia. Fleet-
street, he declared, was nothing but a paper
sham. There was less and less money in it.
It was an industry living on its capital.
Goaded by its destiny it ate up its own re-
sources, and as the price of paper rose and
the forests of the world dwindled, the neces-
sities of competition forced it to increase its
output. There was hardly a newspaper in
Fleet-street, he said, which was running at
a profit.
Although Paris has innumerable news-
papers, there is nothing in that city com-
parable to London’s Street of Ink; but on
the Boulevard Bonne NouVelle I found
something quite as significant and interest-
ing. It was a little''picture-theatre which,
instead of staging Yankee melodrama, staged
the drama of the day’s events. It was a
brand-new, glittering temple consecrated to
that queer travesty of human life called
the “Topical Gazette.” It was an animated
newspaper. The intellectual proletariat, hav-
ing lost the capacity even for studying head-
lines, can here sit in grateful darkness and
read the news of the world’s travailing in
warm and moving images. Out of the raging
street they can slip in here for half an hour
and watch, to the exotic music of a pianola
flaying ragtime, the favorite at the Grand
Prix win his race, see Lloyd George get out
of his motor-car at Spa, cheer Millerand into
his carriage at the Gare du Nord, observe
the fantastic d’Anuunzio gesticulating in a
wordless speech, and imagine the thunder of
the guns of a royal salute to the King of
Montenegro.
Lapped in a tepid gloom heavy with
human incense, I visioned the dizzy possi-
bilities of this new phenomenon of a civilisa-
tion working out its destines in blind auto-
matism. Before the last forest has been
pulped and the last roll of paper inked an
unborn Northeliffe will have covered the
world With news-theatres. A network of
wireless stations will disseminate the world’s
news in moving pictures. Well-to-do citizens
will have their houses connected with the
system, and will read their morning paper
flashed upon their bedroom ceiling. The future
tube passenger of Sydney will, according to
his predilections, enter the Telegraph car,
the S. M. Herald or the Worker car, and
as he speeds to work will have his news
screened for him as he goes. Tin; pedes-
trian will put his head into his favorite
newspaper booth at a street corner. The
great leader-writer will be an impassioned-
film actor, and the political correspondent a
director of photo-play propaganda. Bolshe-
vik communiques and Chinese famines will
be telegraphed in graphic detail, and the
report of an Australian drought will give
tin; Londoner a dry feeling in the throat.
Invisible shades • bearing electric-torches
flitted to and fro. Whispering shadows
shuffled in and out of seats, a baby whim-
pered somewhere and a mother wiped its
unseen nose noisily. A dim ray full of
motes slid silently across the theatre, throw-
ing on the screen a succession of glittering
visions. The French President pinned
decorations on the breasts of happy heroes
destitute of limbs, British Tommies drove the
mob off the streets of Constantinople with
the butts of rifles, a Polish general dipped
his sword in the Baltic to signify presum-
ably that Poland’s future lay upon the sea,
kings in Borne, Madrid and Monaco received
the dumb-show plaudits of their adoring sub-
jects. The new era will create'a special type
of citizen. His modern forerunner is the
“reader” of the Daily Mirror. He will be
familiar with the way the King gets out of
his carriage to open Parliament, how the
Premier catches a train and how the Finance
Minister signs documents. It is doubtful if
he will know more about himself than he does
now. Probably he will" have forgotten how
to read, but as long qs he can mark a ballot-
paper he will serve the turn-of Governments,
democratic, republican, communist or oli-
garchic, in that coming era of the moving-
picture press.
M. G. SHIPPER.
Ezra Pound
Critical guns have been popping recently
at the work of Ezra Pound; but there is
little to be alarmed at. Pound is anathema
to the pedant because he can’t be pigeon-holed
or placed on the critical card-system of the
pedant’s mind. He is nothing if not pic-
turesque : a man whose intellect is as keen
as a blade, whose knowledge is abysmal,
hopping in magpie-fashion from China to
Provence, ransacking the wardrobes of anti-
quity for the garments of beauty. An exile
from both his native country and literature,
Ezra Pound has hoisted the black flag and
set himself up as the sponsor for Yorticism.
He is a pitiless antagonist of all the mawkish,
tear-squeezing verse manufactured under the
sounding name of poetry. He imported the
ideas of Mallarme into England and fathered
vers libre— helping to extricate poetry from
the late .Victorian backwash. He wears a
coat of many cultures. In his hands the
tawdry becomes glamorous, the trivial pro-
found. He courts unpopularity bv his con-
scious superiority and his critical slashing
at stupidity. His association with the
futurist magazine Blast blasted his reputa-
tion as a poet; but with an arrogant in-
difference to popular pronouncement he
launched the Little Review— a magazine
of the arts, making no compromise with the
public taste —which shelters the furtive tal-
ent of James Joyce, Aldous Huxley, Wynd-
ham Lewis and some younger “imagists.”
Crossing to Europe from America in 1908
Pound wandered leisurely about Italy, Spain
and France, settling finally in London, where
he published his first three books. He had
received his poetical baptism in the limpid
stream of babbling minstrelsy set up by the
troubadours of Provence, Jaufre Rudel and
Arnaut Daniel, and the jongleurs and vagrant
miAes of the 12th century. He had saturated
himself in the works of Villon and the
Pleiade, in the Early Italian of Guido Caval-
canti, and in the verse forms of the “Langue
“°? J —the alba > the canzon and the planh—
which arose from the murk of unlettered aaes
preceding the Renaissance. In his first
three books—“Personnae,” “Exultations” and
Ripostes —he is a treader of unbroken
paths a searcher after beauty in the
buc-a-biac of the Hark Ages:—
L°. I have seen thee bound about with dreams
r ■J J °’ I l , ha i'°. J kno ' vn heart and its desire ■ ‘ ’
4 r of , 1 - t > se;l > and all men’s streams
Are fused in it as flames of an altar fire.
His “Villonaud: Ballad of the Gibbet” is
in key with Villon at his best, as also “Piere
(Continued on page 24.)


Ciathoai/HofdeffisPaje
Satisfaction in MEN’S WEAR at Anthony Horderns.
Unapproached Value
in Men’s Panamas
YA24I.
Men’s Real South American Panamas, with
brims 2£ to 2? inches wide.
Price . . . . 21/-
Anthony Horderns’
Striking Boot Value.
Comfort, style and
good-wearing qualities
in every pair. Made in
three styles.
S I
is '
VS
Men’s Black Box Calf and Wallaby Boots,
genuine welted soles, all sizes 5 to 10.
Price 25/- pair
Size 11, 1/6 extra.
Whatever your requirements may be
Anthony Horderns’ can supply them
at prices which are the lowest in the
land. Our aim is to give entire
satisfaction with all orders entrusted
to us.
The ‘Palace” Golf Shirts
are made in our own
workrooms from the
best British materials.
Men’s Striped Cambric Golf Shirts (as illus-
trated), dressed neckbands, soft, double
cuffs. Blue, Black and Helio Stripes on
White Grounds.
Price
8/6 each
IN Anthony Horderns’ Values men find
not only exclusive Styles, but excep-
tional material and thorough workman-
ship. They find every article a super-value
—which not only dresses them fashionably
but which will give the best wear. A
comparison will convince you.
-\
D
K
im
m
M
m
Mf.
i> <
£8
mm
c*
mm
wmm
vr.j -
v4
> »,
A Si
SiH
c-fl»-t-C-f . V
?DS;
mm
t s
Sr 3
i 1
i/fe; rfsQrSSSir
MS
?***
c'-:i 5>
rr fi 5
! fci n
r-^f
II
as?
ssafe**
Is
?, V
3
&
m
IP s
-r
&
T*
V
MEN’S
TWEED SAC SUITS.
Coat has two or three buttons, roll collar, with
or without vent.
Vest has four pockets, medium opening.
Trousers have side or cross pockets, hip pocket, plain or cuff
bottoms.
In Dark and Medium Grey Fancies 70/-
In Fancy Grey Herringbone Tweeds £5/19/6
In Dark Fancy Tweed £6/17/6
In Navy Serge (Indigo! £6/6/-
In Navy Serge (Rough) £6/17/6
Stylish and Comfortable
Men’s Soft Felt Hats.
YAI2.
Men’s Fine Fur Soft Felt Hat, with -plain
edge, light in weight. In colors: Slate,
Steel, Pearl, Medium Brown and Black.
Price
21/-
Another Example of Value
at Anthony Horderns’
featuring another style
in Men’s Box Calf and
Wallaby Boots.
This Boot (as well as that illustrated on the
left) reflects the genuine value at the House
of Economy.
Price 25/- pair
Size 11, 1/6 extra.
We Pay Carriage on Men’s Wear to
any part of N. S. Wales. On Inter-
State and Island orders we pay
carriage to the nearest port.
The “Palace”
Cricketing Shirt.
a»
V
x
Men’s White Tennis or .Cricketing Shirts,
with collars and pockets attached (as illus-
trated). Sizes to 18 inches. In White
Mercerised Twill.
Prices ... 8/11 and 9/11 each
Other Prices 10/6, 11/6, 12/6, 27/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


Increase
your
outdoor
pleasures
-KODAK.
m
* m * J
wmmm
m
1
i >* *
m
r
Your sports, rambles, motor trips and all outdoor pleasures will be doubled if you use a
Kodak every outing is an opportunity to make pictures that will save your happiness for
future enjoyment.
You can learn to use the Kodak you choose in half an hour, and prices range from 54/6 to £2O/15/-
The 3a Autographic Kodak Junior is a fine, compact and efficient model that makes postcard-size pictures— x 5j inches and
costs £6. There are also three smaller models exactly the same, except in size, costing 98/-, £5/3/6 and £5/15/-.
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street. Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street
Brisbane ; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street’
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Bringing the Celebrities
into Your Home.
t 0 e ” terta * n the world’s greatest singers and musicians, you
would be interested in their personalities—but you would like best to have
them sing or play for you.
This part of them you CAN bring home—
‘His Master's Voice
Instruments and Records
give you tne chance to hear their voices and their music in all its original
richness and beauty. Under the “His Master s Voice ’ banner are to be
round such artists as-
“His Master’s Voice.
Reg. Trade-mark.
McCormack Paderewski
Moiseiwitsch Kubeiik Tetrazzini
Heifetz Galli-Curci Hambourg
Take, for instance, Caruso: no tenor has ever
achieved greater popularity. This supreme
operatic vocalist and singer of ballads has
elected to record exclusively for “His Master’s
Voice.”
His Masters Voice
%■/.
Y.
k
#
v
/
\
/
CARUSO
A short selection from the extensive repertoire of Caruso records (12-inch, 12/6; 10-inch, 8/6): —
2-032000—Air de la fleur (Carmen) Bizet
052224—Celeste Aida (Aida) Verdi
2-052035—G00d-bye (Addio) Tosti
2-052068—La Danza (Tarantella Napolitana).
Rossini
2-052034—N0, Pagliacci, non son (Pagliacci).
Leoncavallo
052157—0 Par ad iso (L’Africaina) ..Meyerbeer
02397—The Lost Chord (in English) . . Sullivan
His Master s Voice Instruments, perfect in tonal quality, range from 1 1 guineas to 85 guineas.
Instrument Catalogue, record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Gramophone.-’,
Reg. Trade-mark.


For Bad Breath
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning; a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
eyes—the new laxative—
an excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach condi-
tions which cause symptoms;
regulate the liver and remove
constipation. Pinkettes act
without causing sickness or
griping, or after effects of
strong purgatives.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF
THE AGE.
37/6
3716
Hand Embroiderer
See Daily Demonstrations at
MARCELLES, Pitt Street, and
W. T. WATERS & CO., LTD.
Free instruction given.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15»6 CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
9
iHrE
Regain your
youthful ap-
pearance by
transforming
your ageing
grey hair to
the deep wal-
nut color of
youth. Easily
A
n
1
applied. Absolutely
harmless.
ALL CHEMISTS.
Get a packet to-day.
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
The World’s Two Leading Marine and
Stationary Crude Oil Engines.
fZ. 5
Marine Type (Single and Double Cylinder).
6 to 35 Horse-power.
For Yachts, Launches and Fishing Boats where light weight, quick starting, easy
running and, last but not least, remarkable low running costs are ol importance.
The “AMIS.”
Stocks —6, 10,15 and 20 H.P.
The Wonderful Lightweight, Heavy-duty Crude
Oil Engine. Stationary and Marine Types.
Powers —6 to 35 H.P.
Stationary Type,
The Famous “SKANDIA”
Crude Oil Engine, from 40 to 750 H.P.
Stationary and Marine Types.
Suppliers of
Lubricating & Fuel Oils.
NELSON B ROBERTSON
Engineering Department,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans the teeth without scratching
v Sweetens the brealfnbardeos the gums
MADE
lz2!Zl_-C—
-fe-‘-'.'> '-wiftwv «n i
m
<im
f iffy
'MS±i&
m
m
m
ft rii
Mtim
m
ml
ps
£3B
■ ':■■■
&*THs')!:A : !w3>.<
®i
sfiSi!
IN
r
Australia
lf your chemist" or storekeeper
cannof supply, send in stomps
t-o ROCKE.TOMPSITTd CO. MELBOURNE.
m
The it 1 s h\
Ltislr^
V
m
£
arc!
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owaer-Driver.
The High Clearance and Long Wheelbase are just
two features that help to make the STANDARD
LIGHT CAR —THE Car for the Overseas Owner-
driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.
Coventry, England
the: palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life and Thought.
The men of the town made books.
And the folk of the hills made laughter.
Grave heart and merry looks,
Where is your work hereafter.
Free life danced to a tune.
As a leaf in the wind might caper;
And some in a northland June
Bent low over rustling paper.
The world went spinning the time
To the song of the sea and the robin ;
Laughter and thought divine
Were a strand on the same bobbin..
And if one unwound the thread
All that there was for the showing
Was a word a man said
On a strong wind blowing.
What did the man have to say
That lived to the days thereafter?
’Twas a word of the folks at play
On the hills full of laughter!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Old and Young.
The World is old, as the hills declare;
The World is young, as the buds can see;
The World is old, saith the frosting hair;
’Tis young as young, saith the flirting bee.
Away far back in a slimy sea
Ten million years was it drenched and flung;
This morn it laughed on a dew-lit leu
The World is old, and the World is young.
The World is old, say the ridges bare;
The World is young, saith the morn in glee ;
The snows that drift in the wintry air,
They speak of age, but the sunshine free
Breaks out in a protest joyfully,
And the wild waves sing in a glorious tongue
Of Life that leaps where the mermaids
flee —
The World is old, and the World is young.
The World is old! In the caveman’s lair
The bones cry out, “Of the ages we!”
The lark pipes up in the dancing air,
“ ’Tis young, ’tis young in the bursting
tree V 1
’Tis old, ’tis old when our pains we dree,
And sit i’ the ashes our shards among;.
’Tis young, ’tis young with a babe at
The World is old, and the World is young!
Envoy.
’Tis true to-day to the last degree
That life is old when the dirge is sung;
But youth is fresh in our Aready—
The World is old, but the World is young!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
The Hidden Sign.
I think the earth has hardly changed
Since yesterday,
When through the rustling forest ranged
The gods at play.
For if I turn a leaf, a stone,
I may discover
Some ancient footprint of my own
Remembered lover.
Some link that binds the old and new
Remains unbroken ;
That I have walked so far with you
This kiss is token.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Return.
If I’d not met you, now would I have pain.
Or my blue sky be ever turned to grey.
Would I too pleasantly have gone my
way,
Careless that you would never stir again
From the brown mould? Ah, then no pas-
sionate rain .
Of powerless tears would close the shining
day; „ ,
Nor I, returning home, for aye and aye
Sigh for you fallen on a foreign plain.
But Fates in woven paths had guided us
Heart unto heart, so hand in hand we
went , ,
Through the swift sorrow and the shorter
Sure that*"' each was eternal. Spendthrift
thus ,
We squandered life, until your light was
spent; , . t
And I go empty-handed through the night.
VICTORIA.
MARTIN A'B. BOYD.
Going West.
Tucked in a cot beneath a Cross of Red
I lie, a remnant from Gallipoli;
By other hands I’m washed and dressed and
fed
And doped, but to prolong my misery.
Each day I brood o’er other days and things
(The ' time is past when I would look
ahead),
And listen to a tiny voice that sings
Far down the track of years among the
dead;
To curse each night-hour filled with moan and
sigh
Of those whose voices mumble through my
screen;
To sorrow for the wrong of days gone by,
And all the little things that might have
been.
Thank Christ, for me the time will not be
long
When with these bones I’ll leave my
paltry fears.
And go to meet the singer of the song,
And kiss her eyes, with all their unshed
tears!
ROSEMOTJNT HOSPITAL (Q.).
SCOTTIE.


The Studebaker “Special Six” is a
triumph of design and construction
DESIGN and construction are the twin essentials in
the building of a car. However skilful the design,
it will require equal skill in construction to
materialise the knowledge won by long experience and
scientific research.
The Studebaker “Special Six’* owes its excellence to the
recognition of this principle. It is just as harmonious in
operation as it is symmetrical in its charming exterior.
The Special Six is a car of 119-inch wheelbase, with
29-horsepower Studebaker-designed and Studebaker-built
demountable-head motor; improved carburetter, with “hot-
spot” intake manifold; artistic, torpedo-shape cowl lights at
corners of windshield; outside and inside door handles,
and tonneau light with extension cord.
Aero-type Dixie high-tension magneto; a particularly
effective and improved speedometer, and 32 x 4 inch
Goodyear Cord Tyres throughout are further excellent
features.
The beauty of the design of the “Special Six” needs only
to be seen to win instant admiration. The ample roominess
and the richness of the Genuine French Plaited Leather
upholstery make it a car of luxurious comfort.
The Studebaker “Special Six” is built with a Jceen
regard for Australian conditions. The frame has
been developed by years of experience and study.
It is strong enough to meet all requirements.
The powerful, responsive engine is wonderfully
economical of petrol.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION
' OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia : 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie
Street, Hobart.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Limited, King William
Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams Limited, Christchurch,
Timaru, Palmerston North, Wanganui.
i


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post a* a Newspaper.
Yol. 41.—N0. 2125.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1920.
Prick 9d.
THE UNINVITED GUEST.
"I D his official uniform Lord Forster mode a dignified figure as he stood and received the many hundreds of citizens who filed past him. The names were announced in a clear,
in ringing voice by Lis Excellency’s private secretary (Captain Pitt-Rivers). ’
“Here, let me in! I’m old Jim Economy. I ain’t got a card, I tell yon—l only got a bill.”


The Bulletin
the national aostralian newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Lo -> 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 ir, s . per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
-I o any address overseas, £2 per annum.
,,n^ u . es ’ drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
dhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Uolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.l.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, B.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 1849
Conway Buildings, Chicago. U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 21th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, 42nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Golden Gate News Agency, 119
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co ;, Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Go., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fur.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
16oz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., lfid.; 8 ioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 12oz., 3 id.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1920.
OUR DEAD-FAILURE COMMON-
WEALTH.
It is well for Australia to realise that its
Commonwealth, in its twentieth year, is a
failure and a monument of ineptitude, and
that it is casting serious doubts on the
Australian’s capacity for self-government.
If these things are realised then a period
of wholesale repair and reconstruction may
set in. The world has plenty of Federa-
tions—practically every State in America,
including Canada, is run on these lines, and
Switzerland and South Africa are other
samples. But Australia is worked on
principles which no other commonwealth
ever heard or dreamt of. It isn’t good to
be a slave to precedent, but on the other hand
it is absurd to be the one man in a big city
who walks on his hands merely to distin-
guish him from other men who walk on their
feet.
* * * *
When Australia was born in 1901 an iron
band was fastened round the infant’s head
and another round its waist to prevent its
growth—fastened not by the elected repre-
sentatives of the people, but by irresponsible
botchers who, for their own selfish ends,
mauled the representatives’ work into dis-
tortion. In the first place, it was enacted
by these irresponsibles that, save under
almost impossible conditions, there could be
no new States with new capitals to be
centres of population, thought, progress, in-
dustry and enlightenment. In the second
place, that the one unavoidable new capital
shouldn’t be a new centre but a mere patch
on the tail of the biggest of the old ones.
As one result Australia has fewer States
than any other Federation except South
Africa, which is a little place not nearly
as large as Queensland and not much larger
than S. Australia. Yet even it is cut into
four divisions. Of the other three giant
Federations fairly corresponding to ours in
size, and a fourth, which, with 1,153,119
square miles, may be called half-a-giant,
the United States is divided into 48 States
(there are also isolated or foreign Terri-
tories) ; Brazil into 20 States and one Terri-
tory ; Canada into nine States and two
Territories, the biggest one, which is its
frozen desert, covering one-third of the
country; while Argentina, the half-giant,
comprises 14 States and 10 Territories.
Nowhere else in the world is there a monster
State like Westralia. Only two Common-
wealths, Canada and Brazil, can show one
the size of Queensland, and Quebec is big
only because it nominally includes the frozen
Labrador peninsula, while Amazonas
(Brazil) doesn’t exist on purpose, but is a
general name for a huge region much of
which is yet to be conquered. The United
States and Argentina haven’t one State of
even the size of N. S. Wales. Over 20 self-
made Federations went on the conviction
that it was good to have many States, and
many local capitals to be centres from which
settlement could spread. Also they went on
the solid conviction that it is bad to have
one overwhelming division like N. S. Wales
containing two-fifths of the population and
hoping, when it gets the Federal metropolis,
to have more, and able, either alone or with
one ally, to overshadow the central authority
and dictate to it about Federal capitals or
anything else. They regarded the over-
whelming State as a danger to the Com-
monwealth just as the overwhelming noble
used to be a danger and a terror to the
kingdom—the Douglas in Scotland, or
Bbaganza in Portugal, or Burgundy in
France, or Wallenstein in Germany; a
huge brigandish person who was above the
law, and with power but without responsi-
bility. If a State like Buenos Aires (Ar-
gentina), with one-fourth of the population,
is growing a trifle unwieldy, then the Federa-
tion cuts the city-State of Buenos Aires out
of the State of that name and sets it up for
itself, just as Sydney and Melbourne might
be cut out of N. S. Wales and Victoria and
set up for themselves. In its love for mon-
ster political estates Australia stands alone.
It is a survival or a revival of the Dark
Ages, when the ownership of a vast hunk of
land, even if neglected and unused, was the
test of real greatness. In fact, it is a
Junker.
* * * *
Politically enlightened Federations which
had big waste lands went on a fairly uniform
principle. The unpeopled or very thinly
peopled areas were Federal property, and the
Commonwealth had not only power to make
States out of them but power to cut up other
States. George Washington’s country
was just as anxious to make new States as
George Fuller’s is to avoid making them.
The U.S. began business with the beginning
of Washington’s first Presidency. Within
two years it made its first new State (Ver-
mont) by cutting unwieldy New York in
two. Within three years it made Kentucky
by cutting Virginia in two. Within seven
years it made Tennessee by hacking North
Carolina in two. Within 30 years it made
Alabama and Mississippi by dividing Georgia
in three. On the U.S. principle all Queens-
land north of the Central railway, a great
part of West Queensland, the Northern
Territory, part of S. Aus. and at least 75
per cent, of Westralia would have been Fed-
eral property from the start. It was out of
waste lands like these that Washington’s
country made its first wholly new State
(Ohio) 13 years after the commencement of
things. Canada, more conservative, began
in 1846 as three provinces. Now, as
already mentioned, it embodies nine and two
Territories. Even Switzerland, which began
as four States in 1291, kept on developing
till 1816, when, its biggest subdivision being
2773 square miles, it decided to rest. As re-
gards the population aspect of the case the
U.S. considers 81,875 people enough to
make a State out of, while Argentina’s mini-
mum States have 78,000 and 53,000 respec-
tively. And all these places began with
much less.
* * w *
Amid all these brisk doings Australia’s
Commonwealth alone can lay its hand on the
front of its boiled rag and swear that it
hasn’t developed except in the way of debt
from the day it was born —that it is the same
misguided old Tory trudging along the same
old tracks, and letting the same old handful
of huge political estates run to the same old
seed. In fact, it hasn’t cut up one of its
huge estates for 61 years, which is a record
for bleak stagnation. It began life in the
South and is still there —in fact, it is far-
ther south than in the days when Sydney
was the only city. The North is to Australia
what the West was to the United States —
that West which it first began to organise
when its Commonwealth, then three years
old, carved its first new Western State out
of the wilderness and thus laid the founda-
tions of Denver, Chicago and San Francisco.
There was once, little as it is remembered,
an embryo State of North Australia, with
an embryo capital at Gladstone, close to the
tropic line; but the shadow colony is part of
Queensland now. and the paraphernalia of
the embryo capital is 372 miles farther
south, at Brisbane. The idea of develop-
ment now is a temporary Federal capital on
the south coast, a permanent Federal capital
about 180 miles in a beeline from the south
coast, and- four of the six State capitals
crowded into a triangle of about 200,000
square miles, all on a peninsula on the south-
east coast. Australia is the country par ex-
cellence of a few big cities as well as of a
few big political estates. It holds the record
both ways.
THE MODERN ATTITUDE TOWARDS
PROHIBITION.
Thebe are signs and portents that Prohibi-
tion is in a bad way all over the world.
The recent Victorian vote does not look
healthy for the cause in Australia. It has
been turned down by Maoriland. British
Columbia has just gone overwhelmingly wet,
and the Yankee spell-binders who set out
to win over the United Kingdom don’t seem
to be making headway. They are not greatly
assisted by the example which their own
country provides. The San Francisco Argo-
naut (4/9/’2O) referred to the Volstead
Act as “a law odious to more than half the
people of the country—a law incapable of
enforcement by usual or even extraordinary
methods of detection and prosecution.”
Kvery law creates a new class of criminals,
but nation-wide prohibition does it on a
wholesale scale; and what is far worse from
the standpoint of the law-abiding section,
it turns punishment by the Courts into a
Jest.. In the U.S.A. before the days of pro-
hibition it was a serious matter socially to
be fined for drunkenness; but no one is pre-
judiced by a conviction for grog-owning.
There is apparently as much intoxicating
liquor in the U.S. as ever: the differences
are that it is mostly worse and invariably
more expensive. In fact, the only barriers
there against alcoholic refreshment seem to
be poverty and a distaste for theft.
■** * *
But the world-feeling against this parti-
cular curtailment of liberty goes deeper.
The English of Cromwell’s day put up
with much that revolted them in their battle
for freedom. They saw their cheerful land
transformed into a vast Sunday-school—
a forbidding place where horseracing and
dancing were crimes, and the eating of a
mince-pie or the ornamentation of a room
with flowers a sign of disloyalty to the
national faith. The British Empire has had
six years of a discipline almost as idiotic.
In the different armies men have been dic-
tated to as to the color of their socks, the length
of their hair and the fashion of their foot-
wear very much as their forebears were dic-
tated to 270 years ago. In civil life a
tyranny was exercised by the innumerable
officials exuded by war-time legislation which
in a greater or lesser degree maddened every-
body. There is a reaction against our
pocket-CROMWELLS and their hireling
agents; against militarism and its agents;
and, generally, against anything or anybody
that looks like any of them. Every prohi-
bitionist is a W. M. Hughes at heart. The
militant teetotaller’s idea of the perfect State
is one in which moral arbiters are eternally
preventing the citizen from doing this and
that. Because some unspecified authority in
America has claimed that 90 per cent, of fallen
women owe their destruction to dance-halls,
then all dancing should be forbidden ; because
a few women wear pneumonia blouses, the
female dress of the day is indecent; because
a microscopic proportion of the population
gets drunk, no one should be allowed to have
any drink at all. The war-period has given
the electors an insight into the psychology
of the enthusiasts who argue in this fashion.
They stand in matters of social reform where
the ex-imperial n.c o.’s in Australia stood
on the disciplinary issue in 1914. The latter
argued that there was only one way of
handling the Australian soldier. If he did
not salute profusely and correctly, or wore
his hat at the wrong angle, or left the top
button of his tunic unfastened, or allowed
his eyes to wander while standing at “atten-
tion,” or walked with his hands in his
pockets, or of his own accord stood “at ease”
in the presence of a superior—if he did
these or a hundred other things he was,
militarily speaking, lost. The Germans, who
knew all such rules and had been following
them for half a century, would overwhelm
him on the field of battle. The war was not
half over before the overseas troops had
demonstrated that they fought better without
shackles than the Germans did in them. The
disciplinarians were retired to the bases
still protesting that it was all wrong—that
free soldiers should be pleased to have gyves
put on them because in the past certain
other soldiers had proved useless without
such methods of compulsion.
* * * #
There is little doubt that the M.L. soldiers
whose votes won the fight against prohibi-
tion in the Dominion in 1918 saw the resem-
blance between the methods and aims of the
teetotallers and those of the ultra-militarists
who, by that time, had become discredited
even in the Imperial Army. Their vote was
registered against extremism, and pompous
tyranny, and a desire to interfere for inter-
ference’s own sake. Nor would the result
have been different had the U.S.A. been
allowed to vote by referendum on the same
issue, with the suffrages of the Army to
balance those of electors who had not 'had
the soldiers’ experience of coercion. Simi-
larly in Victoria the other day it was cer-
tainly not love of drink which led to the
rout of the Prohibitionists (Victoria, with
an average of less than 30 convictions for
drunkenness per 10,000, is the soberest State
of the Commonwealth), but rather its
recently-gained knowledge of the folly of
handing over large instalments of freedom.
That and something else. Victoria enjoys
one of the best liquor-control systems in the
world. The publican who sells bad drink
or who encourages drunkenness knows that
he is doomed. And at the same time there
is enough liquor available to preclude illicit
distilling, “boot-legging,”, “hip-pocketing”
and smuggling—all common features of
American life, as indeed they came to be of
English life about the time the American States
were winning their independence, when the
enforcement of the Gin Act led to the Por-
teous Riots. It is not difficult to imagine,
nor would it be hard to bring about, an
even better condition of affairs than exists
in Victoria. In Britain to-day Trust Houses,
Ltd., and the People’s Refreshment Home
Assoc., Ltd., own between them about 300
hotels, and they are acquiring another
hundred by the end of this year. They are
licensed houses and they pay, yet none of
them has had a conviction for drunkenness
in the past 10 .years. A possible explanation
of the last fact is that those in charge are
not concerned to make money quickly and
get out: they are paid managers who are
required primarily to keep their establish-
ments sober, all the shareholders being tem-
perance reformers. If our teetotallers
dropped the intransigent attitude of W. M.
Hughes and the old-fashioned drill-sergeants
and supported practicable reform measures
such as the above they might do a lot for
the cause of temperance. As long as they
continue asking for the moon, they give the
reformer no help whatever, but, instead, get
in his way.
ANZAC PRODUCTS IN BRITAIN.
During the last few weeks we “colonials”
in London have been following with enjoy-
ment a duel waged between the Imperial
Food Ministry and the Australian and
Maoriland producers of butter and cheese.
The issue involved was not merely pounds,
shillings and pence—it was Independent
Nationality. You remember Kipling’s
story of "The Ship that Found Herself.”
That is what has happened to us during the
years 1914-11)11). But more than this was
involved : the duel has proved that the Anzacs
m commerce as in battle stand fast by one
another. Often and often Maoriland sol-
diers have said to me: "The Aussies are
better than we are.” And again and again
Australians have assured me: "The Enzeds
beat us." This was not a rivalry in gener-
osity, but rather a realisation that then-
natures were complementary. The Maori-
landers are islanders; the Australians con-
tinentals. Steadfastness characterises the
first, daring the second: they are equally
courageous, but the courage is ot a different
quality. The restraint of his feelings is
as natural to the Maorilander as the frank
and ready expression of them to the Austra-
lian. On the march the Enzeds never sang:
the Australians never stopped singing. But
the men of the "Silent Division” had at
times a wistful sense of loss. At the canteen
I started in Ivantara in November, 1916
there was a little knot of N.Z.M.R. men one
afternoon resting and enjoying themselves.
In came a group of Australians, and
promptly the piano was .opened up and
chorus-songs started. After a while the Aus-
tralians, rushed off to catch their train, and
again silence fell. “We’re a doleful lot,”
said one of the Enzed mounted men looking
at the others; "why can’t we pipe up like
the Aussies?” “Why didn’t you pipe up?”
I asked the man who had made the accusa-
tion. “The trouble is I’m one of them,” he
replied with equal truth and humor.
And now again, not in the destruction of
war, but in the construction of trade, we
see the same inter-action of the Australian
and the M.L. mind. The Australians’ surplus
butter was purchased by the Imperial Food
Ministry at a much lower price than the
M.L. producers were prepared to accept.
The latter wanted at least a million more
than the Imperials said they were prepared
to give. Maoriland’s refusal was published
abroad, with a hint that it would send
its butter into the open market here.
The Food Ministry at once threatened
to decline to allow any M.L. butter
to come in unless it came under the
Ministry’s control. That was a psycho-
logical blunder. Negotiations with America
were promptly under discussion. The mere
possibility of the M.L. supply being cut off
brought about a collapse, and a new offer
was made —an offer which would return to
the M.L. producers £1,000,000 more than
last year, the Times informed us, adding:
“It is expected that the producers will
accept the offer, especially as they cannot
obtain an uncontrolled market in Great
Britain.”
There was a silence for four days, and
then on August 30 the Times had this para-
graph :—•
After protracted negotiations the Government has
practically secured the exports of M.L. butter up to
March 31, 1921, the Dominion Producers’ Committee
having on Friday recommended that the Ministry of
Food’s offer of 280 s. per cwt. f.o.b. be accepted. At
this figure the butter would be retailed in London
at 3s. 4d. per lb. —4d. more than the present Gov-
ernment price.
But the price of English butter is 4s. per
lb. and over in the retail shops! And you
don’t need to be a commercial magnate or
a butter expert to see that when M.L. is
offered £2,500,000 for her butter, and refuses,
and is promptly offered £3,500,000 for the
same produce—well, to see that the first offer
looks uncommonly like blackmail. It may
be very laudable for the Food Ministry to
offer the people in the United Kingdom
“Government butter at 2s. per 1b.,” but
£1,000.000 is rather a high price for the
M.L. butter producers to nay for this method
of popularising the efforts of the Food
Ministry.
To continue the story from the Times.
Its commercial columns told us:—
A price of 280 s. per cwt. f.o.b. in M.L. would
represent as nearly as possible 2975. per cwt. landed
here. The Australian surplus butter has also been
secured up to the end of March at 2745. per cwt.
f.o.b. This is an increase of 345. per cwt. on the
figure paid under the contract. The Ministry felt
that it would be unfair to penalise the Australian
producers by holding to the old figure. It is under-
stood that it will be retailed at the same price as
the M.L. product. The margin between the two
prices, 2745. and 2805., represents the difference in
the value recognised by the trade.
Here is a beautiful example of the workings
of an official conscience. The Ministry of
Food’s sense of honor is so delicate that it
is felt to be “unfair” not to give the Aus-
tralian producers “an increase of 345. per
cwt.” It puts the trade value of Australian
butter as lower than the trade value of
M.L. butter. But the two butters will be
retailed at the same price ! Then why not
give the Australians the same price as the
Maorilanders? Wouldn’t that be still less
“unfair”? Obviously the Ministry’s argu-
ment would not hold, and the next day the
Times published the real explanation, which
was as follows: —
It is understood that an arrangement is being
made by the representatives of Australian cheese
producers now in this country for the sale of their
exportable surplus to a group of importers. Large
forward sales have taken place of M.L. cheese at
about the same prices as those contemplated for Aus-
tralian cheese. In view of the good price paid for
M.L. butter by the Ministry of Food it is anticipated
that there will be a turn-over to some extent from
the production of cheese to that of butter in that
Dominion.
And a precisely contrary effect in Australia!
Hence the sudden qualms of conscience which
inspired the Food Ministry’s offer of “an
increase of 345. per cwt.” to save “penal-
ising” the Australians!
One is reminded of an incident in the
famous march through London. The Aus-
tralians refused to move off without fixed
bayonets. The War Office emphatically
ruled that only the Guards were permitted
to march through the streets of London with
fixed bayonets. The Diggers instantly said
“No fixed bayonets—-no march,” and ex-
plained in glowing words the comparative
merits of Australians and Imperials. Mean-
time his Majesty awaited the salute. Ulti-


matelv the order was given for t 5^ e Diggers
to advance—with faxed bayonets. Next
morning the London newspapers blandly
announced that “a graceful compliment
had been paid to the Australian troops by
allowing them to march through the stieets
with faxed bayonets. . . .
The butter duel marks a turning-point m
our history. It is clearly a win for inde-
pendent Anzac control and co-opeiation. a
proof that Australian and ALL. lnteiests
are inseparable. The Anzacs must hold to
these principles. The transactions in regard
to meat and wool Establish their soundness.
The control of Anzac products must ne\ ei
be handed over to Imperial officials except
in the greatest common emergency, and
Imperial control must not be retained when
that emergency has passed. To act other-
wise is to reduce the Anzac nations to the
level of vassal States.
What we need now are Anzac products
stores —retail shops where our butter, cheese,
meat, condensed milk, jam, honey, blankets,
rugs. etc., etc., can be bought under Anzac
Government guarantee as to quality and
weight and so forth. We want the whole
of the management in the hands of Anzacs.
Cannot the Australian and ALL. Returned
Soldiers’ Associations arrange this? Ihe
Agents-General and High Commissioners ' are
no doubt very valuable officers as ambassa-
dors, and their establishments are at the
least, even now, highly interesting natural-
history museums, and very pleasant and
restful meeting-houses for visitors. But we
want Anzac storekeepers all over the United
Kingdom and the “Near East,” and every
article we sell must be an advertisement for
the Anzac countries. All this can be done
bv co-operative trading, and we could start
with the agricultural and pastoral products.
We are so far from Europe that only strong
and enterprising men and women volun-
tarily come to our shores.' Yet population
we must have: and to attract that popula-
tion we must do two things: (l).see that no
work that can be profitably done in Australia
and M.Lt. is done for us outside, arid (2)
get the highest possible prices for those fruits
of our labor which are sold abroad.
LONDON.
E. A. ROUT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
When the Crows are Pecking.
It was mentioned last week by H. J. Ayl-
ward, of the N. S. Wales Rural Industries
Board, that 10,000 farmers had had to ask
the Government for seed wheat, superphos-
phate, chalf, oats, implements, machine
parts, food and wearing apparel to tide
them over the drought. “I have never known
a period,” Aylwakd added, “when the
farmers were so distressed. As far as our
experience goes it is the worst time they
have ever had.” The language may seem
extravagant, but consider the cold facts. In
1914, which was a drought year in all four
wheat-producing States, the N. S. Wales
wheatgrowers reaped 4.05 bushels to the
acre. During the three following years, in
which the pool system obtained, their aver-
age was a trifle better than 12 bushels. A
Royal Commission which went into the sub-
ject thoroughly reported at this period that
the cost of producing wheat delivered at the
ship’s side in Westralia was 4s. 6d. a bushel.
In the Ma State it was certainly higher,
land and nearly everything else being dearer
than in the West, but all that the N. S.
Wales farmer got for his war wheat, after
mice, weevils and other parasites and rob-
bers had done with it, was 3s. 7-Jd. a bushel,
and he received the money in small instal-
ments at long intervals. In 1918 the crop
went seven bushels and the price was 4s. 3d.
a bushel, which also didn’t pay. The en-
suing year came another drought and a crop
failure even worse than that of 1914. Leav-
ing decimals, mice, weevils, lost wheat and
unpaid dividends out of reckoning the follow-
ing is the N. S. Wales wheatgrowers’ record
for the last six years:—
1914 — Drought.
1915 —Average 15 bushels ; price 4s. 3d.
1916 — Average 9 bushels; price 3s. 3d.
1917 — Average 11 bushels; price 3s. 4d.
1918 — Average 7 bushels; price 4s. 3d.
1919 — Drought.
It should be noted that 1919 was the first
year since pre-war days in which the man
who had wheat to sell showed a decent profit.
The S. Aus. and Westralian growers have
received Bs. 6d. a bushel net for their 1919-
20 wheat. When the pool is cleaned up
another shilling a bushel may come along;
perhaps a little more. But this return was
the result of foreign sales of a large export-
able surplus, and, by the irony of events,
N. S. Wales had no surplus to export. In-
stead of getting Bs. 6d. or 9s. Od. a bushel
for their many N. S. Wales farmers
had to buy their seed from the Government
at 7s. Bd. a bushel, with 6 per cent, added
for the accommodation. The total sum
advanced to the 10,000 drought victims (and
that means the majority of N. S. Wales
wheatgrowers) was .£1,333,000, 12 months’
interest on which amounts to £79,980, and
presumably the Government expects to be
repaid out of the present crop. Two income
taxes, based not on Cocky’s average earn-
ings since 1914 or 1915 (in two years he
had no income), but on the apparent
profit shown in one good year, will also
come out of the crop. The price of the
implements that Cocky couldn’t afford to
order in 1918 or 1919 has been advanced
lately, and the increment will be another
charge on the crop. The storekeeper, the
bank, the Lands Department and the shire
council have also got liens. Last but not least,
the Labor politicians of the Big City have
been urging the Government to grab the wheat
required- for local consumption at several
shillings a bushel less than its value in the
world’s market, in order to keep bread at
the present price. In no other industry is
this sort of piracy permitted. To no other
toiler does the Government say that, to
oblige the people who put the Government
in office, he will have to take lower wages
than he can get in the open market. Imagine
the roar that would ascend from the building-
trades unions if the Government announced
that bricklayers and plasterers would have
to work for the minimum wage that the
State has guaranteed them, and not for the
30s. a week more that the boss is paying
them, because housing, an essential commo-
dity. is scarce and dear. No Labor Govern-
ment would last ten minutes if it applied
the* principle to Labor supporters; but
Cocky is not a Labor supporter, hence
Cocky is fair game. And so the Big City
that mostly A'otes Labor will also get its
cut out of the crop. The danger is that
there will be too many cuts and too little
crop, and that the harassed and sweated
toiler at whom all the crows pecking
may decide that wheatgrowing is a fool of
a game when a man can get £4 os. a week ot
six short days in the city (and it may be
£5 a week presently) for carting pigwash or
shifting sand.
If All Unions Were Open.
Melbourne Age recently took a sort of
brick-and-mortar census in 36 Victorian
towns, widely scattered and all places of
some importance. The verdict, collected
chiefly from municipal officials, showed two
vacant houses, one of them described as
uninhabitable. The returns ran monoto-
nously in this fashion :
People have been trying for six months to get a
place:
House could not be obtained for love or money.
Houses cannot be obtained under any terms.
Every house occupied, some by two families.
Housing accommodation of any kind is unprocur-
There are three houses in course of erection and
60 applicants. ,
Houses have been purchased and the late tenants,
on being dispossessed, have had to leave the district.
The same sort of tale circulates in every
State. It is eviction on the grand scale—
a case of men being pushed out of their
country, not by the absentee landlord tor
want of a farm, but chiefly by the union
boss for lack of a house. The absentee ot
the old type was a property-holder who went
away. The nuisance of the new type is
more often a strange person of no property
who hadn’t the grace to stay away, and has
no interest in this country save that he lives
in it. The homelessness of a country
which has so few people to provide accom-
modation for is tragic. Its case may be
stated as follows: —
There is abundance of room to build houses. This
isn’t a place with 600 or 700 people to the square
mile like England or Belgium, but with less than
two per mile.
There are plenty of men to make bricks, hew stone,
saw wood, make nails and screws and galvanised
iron, and to put these things together as domiciles.
Other house-shortage countries may say that their
men and women are working like beavers to repair
the war-blighted fields, restore the ruined roads,
railways and bridges, and bale out the mines, and
that whole towns have to be rebuilt before people
can resume the old daily job of keeping pace with
the normal peace requirements of the population.
But Australia has no war repairs to do, and it has
so much superfluous labor (at a time when house-
providing labor can’t be got) that the country is
loading posterity with debt, as no other land on
this earth is doing, in order to employ these men
on jobs which will load posterity with deficits in
addition to the debt.
There is abundance and superabundance of money
to build with (paper money—the only kind we use
now). When Knibbs printed his last figures the
banks held £23,600,000 (in £lOOO notes) which
they weren’t allowed to lend out for fear of flooding
the market, and the Treasury had £24,000,000 in
gold. Even if the gold was all borrowed, still it
was there.
Crude politicians talk about compelling
savings banks to lend up to 90 or 100 per
cent, of the value, so that poor people may
build houses with other people’s money, as
if the want of money was the trouble. The
fact is that if £4OOO was offered for the
building of a four-roomed home men and
materials couldn’t be got except by taking
them away from the job of building some-
one else’s four-roomed home. Much is said,
too, about combines which keep brickyards
closed. But their opening could be en-
forced, or they could be resumed by the
State and opened, and new ones could be
started on the co-operative principle. The
real trouble is that there is little satisfac-
tion in opening anything —even Parliament
—without sufficient skilled labor to work it,
and in every trade skilled labor is scarce;
and unless some action is taken with the
people who are at the back of the doctrine of
extreme limitation of apprenticeship, restric-
tion of admission to unions, and restriction
of work and output, Australia is going to
be more homeless than it is. A sort of
remedy might be found if all unions of the
skilled variety were made absolutely open
on one main condition. That should be not
the payment of subscriptions, though sub-
scriptions would be necessary to a limited
extent, but the passing of an examination
as to skill and capacity.
♦
“Fully Improved.”
The declaration that the retention area
under the N. S. Wales Government’s Large
Holdings Subdivision Bill is to be £20,000
worth, with the value calculated at “what
it would be worth if fully improved,” has
a dizzy sound with a suggestion of higher
mathematics, a hint of recurring decimals
and a flavor of the prophet Daniel and the
Book of Revelation about it. To define “fully
improved” a jury of expert agricultural
angels, aided by a cloud of witnessing
chemists, would be required; while to get
at the “value” of “fully improved” would
require a committee of the best guessing
financiers able to juggle out the possible
rates of exchange, wages and the cost of
commodities during the whole period in
which the land was being brought to ideal
perfection. Time and expense might be
saved by assuming that all land when “fully
improved” is of about the same producing
capacity. Thus, a flat expanse of solid
granite rock can be improved into the finest
garden soil by pulverising the surface to a
depth of a yard or two. adding the fer-
tilisers necessary and laying on a suitable
water supply. Nature is doing this very
thing in a leisurely fashion, and much of the
best agricultural land to-day was just such
bald rock 20 or 30 million years ago. But
even when the land has been brought into
the condition that might be first-class for
wheat or corn in 1920, it is clear that the
limit of “fully improved” has not been
reached. A crop of asparagus is in propor-
tion to the area it covers much more valu-
able than a crop of wheat; therefore, it
may be argued that no land is “fully im-
proved” until it has reached the condition
in which it will grow asparagus. And still
only the foothills of the mighty mountain of
achievement have been reached. Chemical
students w 7 ho dabble in radio-activity and
believe in the monist theory of atoms are
assured that the dream of the ancient
alchemist is by no means moonshine, and
that there is no fundamental reason why
rock should not turn into gold if tuned
to the correct number of atomic, vibrations.
Under the circumstances and in view of
such a theory, can any land be considered
‘fully improved” until it has become solid
gold? But, assuming that solid gold repre-
sents its “fully improved” condition, it would
then be further necessary to find out the
exact value of gold at the time when the
land had been transmuted. The problem
is really a very ticklish one ; and one about
which even a Government valuator might
make a fractional mistake in the press of
other business.
■—
The Banshee in the Soup.
“Henry Horsecollar” on joint-stock cos.:
I paid Is. lOd. at Sydney Government Printing
Office for a copy of the Profiteering Bill, and if that
isn’t profiteering I don’t know the meaning of the
word. At one time the biggest and dullest Bill
could be bought for Cd.
McTiernan’s composition is painstaking after the
fashion of Bacon’s understudy, elaborate and com-
prehensive in the German style, and smells of the
laborious student and the midnight oil. I reckon it
will take 1000 officials and 10,000 informers to
work it even at half pressure, for every transaction
is liable to be investigated if the person who bought
the prawns reports that he thinks the price an over-
charge, and this whether the price of prawns has
been fixed or not. (Perhaps it will be cheaper to
give him back the money or double the money when
he threatens action and let him keep the prawns,
for it isn’t provided that defendant will get either
satisfaction or costs or apology in case of malicious
prosecution; in fact, he may be prosecuted again
next day. For my part 1 would give the first
person who threatened .to inform on me not only the
prawns but all the fish in stock and then.burn down
the shop.)
But what I really want to talk about is the strange
hatred of public companies (“corporations”
McTiernan calls them). This rage against com-
panies is common to his class, and only the gods
know why. Practically everything that a person
can do costs at least double in fines under the bill
when done by a corporation, and in addition the cor-
poration at the last resort may be closed Up on any
terms that the Court pleases, to the great loss of
innocent shareholders. This is possibly because a
corporation can’t be imprisoned, but on top of all
else the chairman, directors and all officers are
separately liable (clause 45) unless they prove their
innocence, and as an officer can’t be wound up the
presumption is that he can be fined and imprisoned.
So the corporation falls in thrice —by fine, by wind-
ing up and through its officers.
Why do the heathen rage in this fashion? A
company is a body of men who want to do some-
thing besides make inflammatory and often ungram-
matical speeches and haunt race meetings. They get
together by hundreds because many of them (it may be
all of them) are too poor to be separate millionaires,
profiteers, boodlers or monopolists. So people must get
together or things be left undone. A great many
people prefer to work singly because their doings
are too awful for inspection, but the people who
join in this fashion have some faith in each other.
They are sufficiently of the gentle and decent and
civilised type that they don’t yowl at one another, as
McTiernan does at Bavin in the House; or supply
virulent communications about each other to the
press, as John Storey does about somebody or
other once a day. A company has to be to some
extent a school of manners, for if the staff and
directors raged, every one at the next one, in
legislative or caucus fashion, it would perish. It
doesn’t shelter blackguardism behind Parliamentary
privilege. It has to be fairly honest and
capable, for it can’t charge its losses to posterity
as a Government does, and if its auditor said half
the things about it that the Auditor-General has
often said about the State Treasury the row would
be like a volcano. Companies differ from private
firms or business individuals like Minahan and
McGinn in that the latter needn’t be audited unless
they want to.
Companies are willing, save for some very small
and rare limitations, to let anybody into the busi-
ness, on terms which may be learned by perusal
of the share list. Very often the prices of admission
are cheaper than those paid by the original share-
holders. Concerns like the A.M.P. Society offer the
same terms to everybody. Once a person comes in,
even for the smallest interest, he is entitled to know
about the business per his copy of the balance-sheet,
and the financial editors of papers are also supplied
with information that they may criticise at large.
This freedom of entry is not practised by private
firms. No one can buy into Minahan’s 1 boot busi-
ness on application. It isn’t even practised by trade
unions. And a company’s publicity about its affairs
isn’t shared by Minahan either, nor by the caucus.
Also companies state their purposes openly in
their articles of association, and any shareholder can
take steps to stop them or wind them up if they
leave the track. This salutary rule doesn’t apply to
private firms nor to Governments —witness the
Mc.Gowen-Holman-Edden Anti-Borrowing Syndicate
which started business in 1910, and changed into
the Unlimited Loan Co. right off without consulting
the owners. A company that was floated to work a
coal-mine and took to ballooning instead wouldn’t
be allowed to exist, yet it would be no more anom-
alous.
Companies don’t drink, don’t haunt the racecourse,
don’t get into unsavory divorce proceedings, don’t
borrow other companies’ wives, don’t call each other
liars and bid each other to come outside and have both
their necks screwed. They represent, with few
exceptions, orderly co-operation, whereas trades
unions often represent disorderly lack of co-operation.
And they stand for the only successful protest
against private enterprise or private monopoly that
the country can show. State enterprise which, thanks
to rotten Governments, is now everywhere pawned to
private capitalists, and is mostly run at heavy loss,
has ceased to be a protest. In its present form it is
rather a disease.
Yet to McTiernan and his kind the harmless and
generally useful co-operative concern is a burden
and a nightmare, a dead gnome sitting at the feast,
a banshee in the soup, a bird of ill-omen in the
ointment; also the worm that dieth not (to say
nothing of the hookworm and the bookworm and the
cankerworm and the worm that ate Jonah’s
umbrella), likewise the raven that sat on the pallid
bust of Pallas over Poe the poet’s door. It is a
curious frame of mind and there is no reasonable
explanation.
The Pre-War Touch in the R.A.N.
When the Welfare Committee system was
inaugurated in the R.A.N. 14 months ago
great things were expected of it. i.ne
arrangement had brought satisfaction to the
lower deck in the R.N., though the pay in-
creases of May, 15)19, were due of course,
not to the work of any naval Arbitration
Court, but to the JERROM recommendations.
The pay and promotion issues were burning
ones in our navy this time last year, as
they are now, and, recognising that fact, the
authorities expressly authorised the local
Welfare Committee “to receive and discuss
representations.... as to promotions •• •
deferred pay and pay and allowances.
Lower-declc ratings entered into the scheme
with enthusiastic good faith. They were, at
the time, in the two directions which matter
most in any calling, in a position something
like that of a Tommy regiment beside an
Australian one in France. In the R.N. pay
had just been doubled, ‘‘Badge” pay had been
trebled, hospital stoppages abolished and
“savings” for grog increased from 3d. to
3d. a day. So favorable had promotion con-
ditions become in the senior service of the
Empire that it was possible for a boy from
the lower deck to become a lieutenant by 20.
The R.A.N. ratings asked their representa-
tives to ask the Naval Board to ask the
Navy Minister that their prospects in the
same directions should be raised to the British
level. Nothing happened. Minor reforms
were suggested. No more was heard of them.
Under King’s Regs. (8 and 9) individuals
have always been able to state their griev-
ances through their superior officers with
some faint hope that they would be put as
stated to the highest authority. This
ancient and doubtful method was tried. Also
certain captains were “worded” in the in-
direct manner which convention demands.
The nett result of it all was practically nil.
Is it astonishing that the men should have
come to the conclusion that they are either
up against ineptitude or indifference or both
on the part of their Welfare Committee repre-
sentatives, or that they are opposed by a
brick wall of official hostility? Because
they feel that their case is good they lately
asked to be allowed to send their own
nominees —men with personal experience of
lower-deck life —to put it direct to the full
Naval Board and the Navy Minister, with
members of the press present. There is
nothing revolutionary about such a request
at this time of day. It is as reasonable
that sailors should have their case brought
to the notice of their employers, the public,
as that any other body of workers should
enjoy a similar privilege. The social issues
raised by the men are at least worth con-
sideration. They ask that V.D. sufferers
should be treated ashore, that intoxicants
should be barred to all ranks and ratings
while on R.A.N. ships, and that those con-
victed by the Civil Courts should be dis-
missed the service. Authority’s response
has been that the lower deck can’t put its
grievances in person, and the response of the
lower deck has been that in that case it
will waste no more time on the Welfare
Committee. The attitude of the men is the
more understandable from the fact that under
a recent ruling the Welfare Committee may
not discuss the pay question, which was one
of the matters it was created originally to
discuss. The attitude of the Naval Board
is not understandable at all, unless on the
assumption that the members are so in love
with their own dignity that they are pre-
pared to sacrifice to it the moral of the
R.A.N.
The Rights and Wrongs of Convents.
Supporting a motion before the N. S. Wales
Congregational Union that “convents and
orphanages should be open to Government
inspection,” the Rev. E. C. Davies, of
Lakemba, said :
His mother knew of a case where a girl in an
institution had been flogged. Another girl was
bruised from the nape of the neck downwards almost
to a pulp. Another girl who had been in an insti-
tution for four years had never seen fruit. He had
information which would shock the world. It was
a disgrace for a Christian Church to stand by and
allow such a state of things to continue. Because a
girl had let a heavy iron fall she was struck on
the nose and mouth. He had heard the cries of the
girls in those institutions, and they had made his
blood curdle.
The second-hand rumors retailed to Mr.
Davies by his mother do not constitute
evidence of any value. But the last part of
his statement suggests that he has per-
sonal knowledge of an institution where
girls are cruelly assaulted. In that case
he has a duty which people less obtrusively
righteous are following every day of the
week in respect of mere brute animals. He
must either draw the attention of the police
to the place or fail in his duty as a Chris-
tian citizen. An inmate who, for example,
had been “bruised from the nape of the neck
downwards almost to a pulp” would be
a ready witness for the Crown as soon as
she was well enough to leave the hospital;
and so would the doctors who attended her,
no matter what their denominations hap-
pened to be. To consult the police is
the obvious course, since nuns have no
more right to break the criminal laws
than anyone else. The whole issue
as regards these people simply is that
either they are breaking the criminal and
industrial laws of the land, in which case
they should be punished like other offenders,
or they are obeying the laws, in which case
they have the same right to remain unhar-
assed as anyone else. Meantime people
who, like Pastor Davies, profess to have
“information which would shock the. world.”
merely brand themselves as bad citizens if,
instead of coming forward and proving the
alleged offences in a law court, they are
content to talk vaguely on the subject at
church gatherings.
The Desires of Russia.
From Peter Simonoff —and Peter is the
“Representative in Australia of the Russian
Soviet Government”: —
I have been much abused by the Australian Press
for my alleged activities against the integrity of
the British Empire. It is now my turn to point
out the dangerous propaganda of the press against
the integrity of the same Empire. It was my duty
from the first day of my appointment to give the
Australian people as much information about Russia


Tt e Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A HStralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land,
f - > ' ■ . ' ' • ' . ' . . •
Fire, Workmen s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Limited
as was possible, and for doing that duty I was
not only abused by the press but east into vile
dungeons'. Yet my only crime was in giving the
public information—information which you, too,
found interesting, as you showed by publishing my
articles in The Bulletin. It is stupid to stick
one’s head into sands like the ostriches, but what is
the press doing? Its oidy effort is to mislead, to
delude the people. I am not a great friend of Mr.
Hughes, the Prime Minister; nevertheless, I quite
agree with him that “the first and the basic prin-
ciple of mankind should be to disbelieve everything
you read in the newspapers.”
'lhe fact is that my Government, be it bad or
good, is established strongly, being supported by
the overwhelming majority of the Russian people.
Its foreign policy is to conclude peace with all other
nations and to establish diplomatic and trade rela-
tions through their present Governments, irrespective
of what these Governments may be, capitalistic or
otherwise. \Y e have established diplomatic and trade
relations with Finland, Esthonia, Latvia, Germany
and Italy. All these countries are under capitalistic
Governments. We have signed an armistice with
Poland. Our delegates are in peace conference with
Roumania and Czecho-Slovakia. My Government is
in a position to raise hell in the Near East and in
India against the British rule. But desiring to
conclude peace and to establish diplomatic and trade
relations with all. it has avoided such an act abso-
lutely and in good faith.
let what do we read in the press? Here are a
few headlines: “The Bolshevik Decline,” “Wave of
Hostility,” “Anti-Soviet Movement,” “Great White
Guard Conspiracy,” “Ordered out of Germany,”
“Persia Against Bolshevism,” “Bolsheviks Under
Compulsion.” It is alleged that the Soviet Govern-
ment is at its last gasp, that there is widespread
discontent all over the country, and so forth. The
actual position is quite the reverse. Persia is out
of British control, and India will soon be if this
stupid policy goes on. Italian workers are following
the Bolsheviks step by step. In Germany the repre-
sentatives of the Soviet Government are buying goods
for millions of pounds, while British manufacturers
are closing down their factories. Theoretically it is
not in my interest to point out these things ; it is
not my business to warn the enemies of my Govern-
ment. But we desire to be thoroughly fair even
with our antagonists. •
Yes, certainly ; but in Austria the other day
the Communist (i.e., Bolshevist) party was
virtually obliterated. In fact, the people
who see most of Bolshevism— e.g., the
Poles, Germans, , Austrians. Hungarians,
Roumanians, Letts, Finns and Esthonians—
like it least. Yet Simonoff is quite right
to this extent: our dislike of a nation’s form
of internal government is not, prima facie.
sufficient reason for having no diplomatic or
trade relations with it.
Outlaw Towns.
There are two outlaw towns in Australia —
outlaw in the sense that the King’s writ
doesn’t run there much more effectively than
the Amir of Afghanistan’s does in the upper
valleys of the Hindu Koosh, and the Amir's
document in those parts runs for its life but
in no other sense. The two are Broken Hill
and Darwin, and the Labor unions manage
them both—-or rather the foreign element
which manages the new unionism manages
them—in a way that makes one shudder at
the possibility of all this country being super-
vised on the same lines. Broken Hill suffers
from the casual way in which Australia was
divided and the wooden-headed, parish-
minded selfishness which prevents it being
subdivided. There is a big, healthy capital,
with as sane a Government as this country
ever produces, a little over 300 miles away,
and a valuable port about .180 miles away;
but the trainloads of people who reach the
Hill from there have no say in its affairs
because it lies a few miles east of the border
which separates S. Aus. from N. S. Wales,
Sydney, to which city and port the Hill
owes allegiance, is 725 miles away, and has
no railway communication, though it hopes
to have one in time at ruinous cost and ruin-
ous loss, whereupon some sort of authority
may go to the loony town and restore order.
Owing to the vast stretch of unpeopled
desert in between, no competent authority
is likely to get to the Barrier until this rail-
way is finished, unless the Federal Govern-
ment takes possession. By shifting the
border-line a little way east and throwing
the unattractive Hill into S. Aus.. an autho-
rity would be established immediately; but
Australia doesn’t do plain, obvious things
like that. The mining town is a place
where the roads to three capitals—Adelaide,
Melbourne and Sydney—meet, and it is
naturally ruled from the one which is very
much the furthest away and has twice as
much desert intervening as either of the
others. As for Darwin, its trouble arises
from the fact that it has no railway at
all, a series of Governments having ignored
the pledge to build one, though the interests
of Australia called for it more loudly than
for any other public work whatsoever. Its
sea communications are rare and slow and
nrecarious: also, as they are with anarchistic
North Queensland ports, they are nefarious.
It is in such circumstances that the new
unionism has been able to close up the sup-
porting industries wholly—the mines at
Broken Hill and the meatworks at Darwin
—and at the same time establish two depots
for the dissemination of lawlessness and dis-
order.
Whatever other results it may have, the
death of Terence McSwiney and his col-
leagues looks like the end of hunger-striking
as a means of coercing authority. One of
the Pankhurst ladies is reported by cable
to have said in a letter to Lenin that ‘‘it was
no use hunger-striking, as the British were
allowing the strikers to die”; and I>e
Valera is represented—by cable—to have
revoked his previously-stated intention of
proceeding to London and doing a hunger-
strike in protest against McSwiney’s death.
All these cables and the ones leading up to
them may have been lies (there is a power-
ful suspicion abroad that the arrival of peace
has not brought a surcease of cable-faking),
but there are local instances that suggest
discouragement. Some of the 21 ex-members
of the A.I.F. who are serving long sentences
for so-called “military offences”—as a matter
of fact, 17 of them are “in” for such essenti-
ally civil crimes as robbery with violence,
forgery and theft—started to hunger-strike
a month ago. Shortly after the British
Government indicated its attitude on the
question they dropped it. The old-fashioned
hunger strike as exploited by the suffragettes
had in it the elements of a contest. The
irreconcilables made a grand gesture which
indicated a determination to die in the cause,
GOOD FATTIER JOHN.
“But,” John Estell, N.S.W. Minister for Works, proceeded, “let me tell the North-West this. If it
has been neglected in the past, this is nothing to what it will be in the future if the Government
thinks there is even the least possibility of the New State agitation resulting in breaking off the
North from the South. Is it likely that the Government would spend the millions for which you are
asking, believing that the works would eventually be embraced in a new State?”
FATHER JOHN : “If I thought one of you kids would ever grow up and start a family
of your own, I wouldn't spend another ha’penny on your clothes or your edu-
cation
and the authorities by forcible feeding frus-
trated their intention (which in most cases
was probably bogus), and at the same time
drew odium upon themselves for the brutality
of their behavior. By leaving the hunger-
striker to reject food at will, and by making
it understood that such will be its undeviat-
ing policy in the future, two results are
achieved: (1) the faint-heart and the im-
postor are choked off altogether, and (2) the
case of the fanatic is reduced to one of plain
suicide.
The brilliant notion of “ascertaining the
cost of production” of wheat and “allow-
ing the farmer a reasonable profit”—this
as a dishonest alternative to paying him
the fair market price for the fruits of his
labor—has captured the imagination of
Labor politicians in such places as Port
Melbourne and Balmain. But the man who
does the ascertaining will require medical
attention before he is half through his job.
The cost of growing wheat varies in every
State and every district according to the
price of land, methods of' cultivation, dis-
tance from the railway and the port, and
several other factors, including luck. Land
that cost 10s. an acre in Westralia has
yielded far more wheat the last year or two
than land that cost £lO an acre in Victoria
and N. S. Wales. It is more expensive to
put in a crop on fallowed land than to
scrape the soil with a cultivator, and gen-
erally speaking it pays to farm properly.
-Hut now and then, as every corn-coaxer
knows, the scientific agriculturist fares
worse than his neighbor, the “scratch-it-in”
cocky. How is it possible in such circum-
stances, considering that there are 50,000
farmers engaged in the industry and that
it is carried on in four States, to strike an
average cost and an average profit?
♦—
Concerning a drought that didn’t happen:
Although the hot-gospellers of enforced drouth are
making heroic attempts to look cheerful, the result
of the Vie. local-option poll has filled them with
gloom. For Victoria was the State in which they
expected to win their first triumph. Not only is
it the one part of Australia in which the adult
female considerably exceeds the adult male —and
lovely woman is the sheet-anchor of prohibition—
but it is the most solvent and stable of all the
States, as well as being the one in which the
tub-thumping brand of parson has the greatest influ-
ence. It is also the only State whose Premier is
a prohibitionist. Yet of 525,000 votes polled on
the three issues submitted ta the people—continu-
ance, reduction and no-license —the prohibitionists
got barely 208,000. Of the 213 licensing districts
into which Victoria is divided, only two—Boroon-
dara and Nunawading, both in the Assembly elec-
torate of Boroondara—have gone dry, and that on
a C)7j per cent. vote. Boroondara is a “fashion-
able” or quasi-fashionable neighborhood where the
surplus female of the leisured class abounds. In
point of fact, 16,030 Boroondara women voted
and but 13,305 Boroondara men, showing- that the
issue was determined by the petticoat vote. Other
more or less aristocratic suburbs like Kew, Essen-
don, Hawthorn and Malvern polled majorities for
no-license, but not the necessary three-fifths. In a
good many farming districts reduction was carried
with the help of a large no-license vote. Cocky's idea
appears to be that farm labor would be less floating
and more dependable if it wasn’t for the township
pubs. But the industrial suburbs of Melbourne were
strongly for continuance. Brunswick, Carlton, Col-
lingwood, Fitzrov, Footscray, Port Melbourne,
North Melbourne, Prahran and Williamstown refused
to have any truck with the Rev. Wowser and his
joyless creed. And the ex-Digger was almost as
solidly anti-as organised Labor; in fact. Labor and
the returned soldier, each prompted by a hatred
of compulsion, united with Bung and the brewer,
to defeat a combination of wowsers, farmers, shop-
keepers (some of whom hoped to profit by the shut-
ting of pubs), and women of the upper and lower-
middle classes. In all human probability the same
alignments will be witnessed in other States, with
even more decisive results. Queensland had a local-
option poll last week, and Westralia will have one
in April, but after the verdict of Victoria each is
a fruitless expenditure of paper and paper money.
«
“Glen Httntly” (London) : Cable mes-
sages sent to the Australian dailies, garnered
almost exclusively from Tory sources like
the Northcliffe press, the Morning Post
and the Daily Telegraph, give a painfullv
one-sided picture of affairs iu Ireland. On the
evidence of those on the spot, the frequently-
mentioned “outrages” by Sinn Feiners are
at least equalled by those perpetrated by
e ARSON s following in Ulster and the pro-
miscuous shooting by police and soldiers in
various parts of the distressful island. The
coercion Act marked the climax of the
Droid. George Government’s misguided
attempt to crush Ireland by “frightfulness.”
Under it court-martial "justice” is set up.
-Men may be kept indefinitely in prison with-
out a trial Courts may’sit iu secret and'
maj order the arrest of anyone suspected of
being able to give evidence which will suit
the authorities book. Bodies like the
Gaelic League, which was founded to pro-
mote Irish culture, and Dail Eireann, to
which about two-thirds of the population
belong, have been declared “unlawful asso-
ciations, and it is an offence for anyone to
belong to them, so the opportunities for
arrests are practically unlimited. The sol-
diers who have been sent across are naturally
anxious to avenge attacks which have been
made on some of their number, with the
result that a sort of military lynch law
prevails. To avenge the murder of con-
stables reprisals are taken on whole'' vil-
lages and towns, according to the best tradi-
tions of British militarism when dealing
with niggers. It is not uncommon for whole
streets, containing houses, shops and
creameries, to be burnt. Soldiers who fire
a town or shoot civilians are immune from
the danger of an inquiry by any but a mili-
tary court, which, of course, may be trusted
to deal with them gently. Protests by many
well-known people who have no sympathy
with Sinn Fein have beep made against the
Government’s policy. One took the form of
an . earnest letter in the Times, signed by
!•*> prominent public men, including 11. G.
Wells, war correspondent Philip Gibbs,
C. E. Montague, Desmond MacCarthy.
poet John Masefield, and the Australian
Professor Gilbert Murray.
“Molasses ’ on a staple that is insufficiently
appreciated:—•
In getting off a string of platitudes about immigration
and our vast empty spaces Prime Minister Hughes
remarked incidentally that we need not bother much
about developing the N. Territory, or this or that
far-off corner of our heritage ; the problem was right
at the back door of any one of us. Boiled down
this means that Australia ought to continue the
policy of neglecting nearly everything outside one
or two southern corners. One brilliant result of
this statesmanlike course is that the Commonwealth
is now paying nearly a cool million for 20,000 tons
of second-rate grey sugar from Java to eke out
our own short supplies. This is on the top of
several more millions paid out during the last two
or three years to sugar-growers in Java, Fiji, the
Mauritius and Cuba at prices i running up to very
nearly £lOO a ton as the maximum. A result
of spoon-feeding the foreigner in that fashion is that
the Java growers, who have been getting anything
up to twice the price paid to Australian producers,
are able to outbid the latter for the sulphate of
ammonia produced in Australia and needed as
manure. If Australia had developed the sugar
industry on a really big scale in the far-off corners
of Queensland and the Territory (where sugar was
made in two different districts nearly 40 years ago)
she could have saved many millions, made a good
many more millions and done a great service to
Britain and the Allies. Besides that we would not
hear so much about the empty North. The Ger-
mans knew what sugar means in war when they set
themselves, over 20 years ago, to work up beet-sugar
on a gigantic scale and to kill cane-sugar by means
of tariffs, bounties and agreements. They had a
good deal of success and but for the tariff action of
the U.S.A. they might have had a great deal more.
And if the “corner” party in Australia had been a
little stronger the cane-sugar industry in Australia
would have been dead as mutton when war broke out.
«
“Action Front” : Permanent pensions are
paid to members of the A.I.F. who lost
limbs or eyes on service. No provision, how-
ever, has been made for the men who sus-
tained serious head injuries. Mine was a
bad head-smash, and as my job is press work
it has proved much more serious to me than
the loss of a limb would have done. Few
men recover from the effects of a fractured
base of the skull and laceration of the brain,
but three months after the smash a medical
referee assessed my incapacity at one-
quarter, which carried a pension of 7s. 6d.
a week. The verdict was altered for a time
to total incapacity, but a Medical Board
decided that I had improved, and for 18
months the pension was 7s. 6d. again. Then
I went to hospital and the X-ray revealed
that I had been carrying on for over two
years with a depressed fracture of the base
of the skull, about four inches in length.
The operation kept me idle for nearly seven
months, and I am promised a recurrence
of trouble later on. Meantime, I am looking
for another job. In cases where definite
brain injury is proved it seems only rea-
sonable to ask that the pension should be
fixed, as in the case of men who have lost
limbs. This would save nervous wrecks the
strain which a pension review necessitates.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
wHo would earn over
£,5*000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Had prohibition been carried* at the
Queensland liquor referendum last week it
wouldn’t have taken effect till July, 1925,
and the antis would have had a chance to
reverse the verdict in 1923. But it wasn’t
carried. Neither was State management.
Voting being compulsory up north, the
Queensland drys fared rather better than
their congeners in Victoria, where large
bodies of electors (40 and 50 per cent, in
some constituencies) couldn’t be bothered;
they even managed to poll majorities in a
couple of Labor constituencies, viz., Ipswich
and Bremer. But, generally speaking, the
Labor , vote went heavily against them, and
the abhorrence of beer manifested by middle-
class Suburbia "Wasn't strong enough to
redress the balance.
Henry' Hayseed’s disciples in the Vic.
Assembly - muster 13. Now who is going to
dip his fingers into the dish?
Some old Liberal tacticians in Vic. wanted
Lawson to force a Liberal consolidation not
otherwise possible by resigning as soon as he
got the East Gippsland and Upper Goulbuvn
results, arguing that no other leader with a
sufficient following could be found, and that
Irvine would issue him a new commis-
sion, thus giving him a free hand to pick the
best men in the party or ask the party to
unofficially elect a Cabinet. And Lawson
would probably have done it. too, had not
Hughes made the resign-one-minute-and-take-
office-the-next performance so unpopular:
John Storey is to go to London, Timothy
Coghlan having reminded the Government
that there are large and dreadful liabilities
falling due, to be renewed in the worst mar-
ket on record, and that someone with more
authority than a mere caretaker is wanted on
the spot. He might have added, but didn't,
that the caretaker, though he never went
through the miry routine of securing a party
machine nomination and standing for Parlia-
ment, is about the best man of figures and
finance that Australia ever produced, and
that he knows London thoroughly. Which
is a thousand times more important than
having an up-to-the-moment knowledge of
N. S. Wales politics, for London has all the
voice in fixing terms of loan renewal and
N. S. Wales has hardly even a whisper. Still
Coghlan isn’t eligible for another term even
if lie w T ould accept, with so many politicians
to be provided for. So it seems to be de-
cided that Premier Storey will .go to Eng-
land himself, to tackle great financial pro-
blems that might make a young Rothschild
stagger.
A declaration has been issued by John
Storey that he isn’t going to retire from the
N. S. Wales Premiership or party leadership
for the Agent-General’s billet or any other.
But does he know whether he is going to
retire or not? Dooley and McGirr may
know.
N. S. Wales Ministers are at sixes and
sevens. They have developed a tendency to
rush north. There one blarneys the New
State which is going to break away, and
lavishes promises upon it; while others
gnash their teeth and say that if the North
doesn’t stop talking separation it won’t, get
any works —only taxes. Foolish old Estell
wants to know if We (the royal style adopted
by his namesake King John) can be expected
to spend Ouk money (the money of the
people, including the North —not Estell’s
money) on a place which is so disloyal to
us (Estell and his fellow kings) as to want
Home Rule within the empire. ■ The question
for the North is really whether it is more
likely to get railways to its own ports from
its own people who want them and have their
MOSES STRIKING THE ROCK IN A FRESH PLACE.
“A cable from New York conveys an intimation that a prominent banker in New York has
expressed the opinion that an Australian loan of £5 0,000,000 and a Maoriland issue of £20,000,000
could be obtained in the United States,”
whole soul in the business, or from other
people whose soul is somewhere else? In
other words, whether supposing you want a
new Roman Catholic cathedral it is best to
rely- on the well-known enthusiasm of Bel-
fast Orangemen to provide it for you.
In reply to the passionate demand of N. S.
Wales Ministers that people who object to
their Anti-Profiteering Bill should say why
or else eease to annoy :—-
(1) This paper would hate to be sentenced without
a jury. There is no mention of a jury in the bill.
(2) It objects to be tried by “any person or per-
sons’’ (page 5) who may be appointed, even though
they have “the tenure, salary and pension rights of
a Judge of the District Court.” It isn’t nice to be
sentenced by a poundkeeper with a “pull.”
lt objects, also, to be tried by “assessors”
, (page 0), who “hold office during the pleasure of
the Minister.”
(4) It doesn’t want its friends to devote all their
spare hours to study of the Government Gazette,
which is scarce at Angledool and such places. Vet
it is stated (pages 13, 22, 27, etc.) that regulations
which they must obey will appear, in that dreary
rag and “in prescribed newspapers (if any).” They
can’t trust the hare chance of there being “any.”
There are 173 other points, but these are
enough to go on with.
The wildest man in Australia recently
was the skipper of an 8000-ton freighter
which called at Darwin to ship 1500 tons
of dead meat, the last portion of the last
kill before Vesteys closed down their works.
It took a gang of 05 sturdy fellows 17 days
to shift it. “I'll never come here any more,”
the captain roared. “On my last trip to
Argentina they put 5000 tons of beef aboard
in eight days. And those Argentina lumpers
found time in the eight days to fill my
bunkers with coal.” So the Commonwealth
loses tonnage that it could do with and gains
a rotten advertisement that it could do with-
out. Incidentally, the White Australia
policy gets another knock.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The shadow of a great disappointment has fallen
on T. J. Ryan. He had haroored rosy dreams of
the battle that was threatened by the returning
Watt, and he even let it be known that his money
was on the absent gladiator. Came Watt’s long-
looked-for speech, with Ryan posed to enjoy the
discomfiture of the other Billy. But unhappily the
other Billy gave as good as he received, and as the
little fellow stressed his points, using every dialecti-
cal weapon whilst parrying the worst thrusts with
ingenious evasions, Ryan’s countenance sagged and
sagged. It was almost terrible to see the heavily-
jawed face tumble.
A Profiteering Bill applying to rents is
promised in N. S. Wales. Now if there
chanced along a measure to restrict the
profits on the sale of the impossibly
desirable farm and the impossibly celestial
suburban allotment it would round things
off. These goods are often profiteered to
the last copper by being put up to auction,
which isn’t done with pounds of butter or
quarts of milk, and sometimes, especially in
the country, the seller even supplies a beer
lunch to make buyers feel .sanguine. The
butter profiteer at least produces butter,
whereas the land profiteer doesn’t produce
land, though he sometimes produces a feel-
ing of indignation,
• The N. S. Wales Government has another
device for resuming land for settlement.
The seller is to be paid in 44 per cent, bonds
due 35 years hence. Better securities than
these can be bought in the open market at
a price that yields G per cent., so the com-
pulsory lender will lose £1 10s. per £lOO per
annum—£s2 10s. per £lOO in 35 years. In
other words, the Government raises a forced
loan, of indefinite amount at a ridiculously
low rate of interest—not in money, for it
is borrowing the money otherwise, but in
saleable property. The property will be cut
up and sold, and the money will be collected
by the Government and probably spent for
the convenience of this generation long before
the vendors are due to get their money from
the next generation. Whether they will ever
get it is another matter. In the Assembly the
other day the usual Government supporter
preached the doctrine of repudiation afresh.
As usual he was neither expelled, suspended,
denounced, reproached nor called to order;
and the living' of trial balloons by private
members while the leaders say nothing is
gradually accustoming the party to the idea
of repudiation.
The annual conference of W. A. Labor
women demands that the baby bonus shall
be raised to £lO. The idea will spread, as
such things always do, and the £lO demand
will grow to one for £2O. The urgent need
is for a Government that will wholly abolish
the bonus, which is too much like an impli-
cation that in Australia alone among the
countries of the world every infant is born
a beggar and a pauper.
It transpired recently that the best fur-
nacemen at the Broken Hill Co.’s steel works
make as much as £22 a week. But even
£44 a day wouldn’t make a skilled artisan
out of the bo# who never learned a trade,
and so grew up to be an odd jobber and a
constant deputation to Ministers demand.ng
that a new loan be floated and the railway
from Dry Hill to Burnt Hole started imme-
'diately. Which explains why in spite of the
high wages (or it jnay be because of them)
the co. was at that moment looking in vain
for 74 skilled men.
Prices are falling right enough, but the fall
is more in the things Australia sells than in
those it buys. Argentina (one-third the size
of Australia) expects a 185,000,000 bushel
crop, which this country never reached. Arid
if the blockade is finally lifted against our
Bolshevik brother and his grain comes freely
into the market, wheat may see 3s. Gel. a
bushel again. As for wool, so sudden is the
topple that pessimists talk of less than
£25,000,000 for Australia’s next clip instead
of £80,000,000. The day of more work and
less horse-race is certainly coming.
From an old Parliamentary hand: —
Ministerialists watch with envious pleasure Ryan’s
conduct of a stonewall or a fighting debate. He sits
at the table, penning amendments on slips of paper,
which are passed to junior members of the Opposi-
tion glad to have any chance to speak a piece among
the great guns of the House. Catching the Speaker’s
eye the junior proposes his! little amendment in a
few words suggested by T.J. Then T.J. rises to
support, blandly congratulates the hon. member for
Gumtwig upon his amendment, and proceeds to
elaborate the theme thus submitted to the limit of
the House's time or patience. So the game is played.
It is really history written backwards.
The extreme north and extreme south of
N. S. Wales want Home Rule within the
Empire. They are mostly Saxon, and a
“base, brutal and blauky” Sydney Govern-
ment which is mostly Celtic nowadays
receives their demands coldly. Yet they have
genuine grievances. They are further from
the capital than Dublin is from London.
They pay their full share of taxes, while
Ireland is exempt from many taxes. And
their great complaint is that they can’t get
the railways they want and are taxed to
pay the loss on railways which carry trade
to Sydney only, while Ireland can form a
new company and start a new line anywhere
at any time, and it doesn’t pay a penny
towards losses on English lines, though those
which pass under London are a very bank-
rupt lot. Irish railways have their manage-
ment in Ireland —never in London —so the
island seems to have progressed further along
the path of freedom than either New Eng-
land or Riverina.
Supposing the N. S. Wales Upper House
is swamped to give Labor a solid majority,
will the power be used to abolish the whole
show? It won’t. The Nominee Chamber
furnishes the decayed politician with a streak
of sunset radiance, fairly pleasant company,
a club where he can foregather with old
cronies, a free pass, the run of public func-
tions and a little heart-warming adver-
tisement to cheer him as he toddles
towards the tomb. It is a place
where the superfluous middle-aged politi-
cian can be put and it breaks his fall. Many
a Minister who would throw the spittoon at
his colleagues if they simply told him that
he was Jonah and mustn’t ekpect the party
endorsement at next election even as a pri-
vate member won’t tear anybody’s uniform if
offered an M.L.C.’s job, with the chance of a
humble portfolio now and then. Young
members who have been biffed out sometimes
do a term there and then get biffed in again.
The Upper House job saves them from that
complete obscurity which is fatal. And when
a raw new Cabinet can’t raise a Solicitor-
General from among the’elected it can give
the job to Sproule, and makes Sproule a
peer so that he is qualified. The thought of
Sproule abolishing himself, his portfolio and
his first and last chance of greatness is un-
thinkable. In short, the Legislative Council
is an honorable Home for Incurables, Im-
possibles and Improbables who are still in a
sense Inevitables, and it is kinder to send
them there than to boil them down. It is
also a storehouse for politicians in a state
of suspended animation and an incubator for
young Sproule who is starting where others
leave off.
THE CASE AGAINST THE TEN COMMANDMENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Some people would object to the Ten Command-
ments.” —John Storey.
The Ten Commandments Moses wrote
On tablets of most holy stone
Strike a discordant, tuneless note
When politics are like our own.
They suited those forgotten days
When Israel’s hosts were down at heel,
For in the weary desert ways
Only the sand was left to steal.
The Sunday was not hard to keep—
They found it always dull and drv—
And no one under Horeb’s steep
AVas keen enough to tell a lie.
Murder appeared a futile thing;
And honor due to Mum and Dad
AVas offered ere they tried tc swing
A laded slipper sore and sad.
The other six Commandments ran
In easy grooves while manna fell;
The fact was plain that any man
By doing nothing kept them well.
And sleepily the nation moved
About a hundred feet a day,
Till forty years of snail-craft proved
Obedience was the easy way.
But those old words should not apply
In swiftly-changing times like these,
AVhen progress moves from cry to cry
And crowds are loud and hard to please;
For we who live by polities
Find every stairway slimed with soap,
And slippery acrobatic tricks
Arc ministers of ‘faith and hope.
We rise; we fall. One gilded hour
We have to gather what we may;
And in the sunshine of our power
AA r o needs must make a little hay.
AVe play with Truth a safe, small game,
Chuck Honesty beneath the chin:
And what Self-righteous voice shall blame
Our gentle methods if we win?
The Ten Commandments Moses wrote
On tablets of most ancient stone
Are like a poor dishonored note
The Bank of Progress will not own.
AA’e play our hand as others do
With honeyed palms and fingers slick;
And for reward, which is our due —
Well, something good perhaps may stick.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE UPLIFTERS.
GENERAL STRIKE: “The enemy confronts you. Forward, in the name of Justice and Humanity!"


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
PRODUCERS of
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
ZINC DUST —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
Also of LITHARGE—(Assay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-LEAD ORES, READ DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS, Secretary. .
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Rellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O'CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK. Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAX BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES, Agent.
KOBE., JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
J9HAB
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
When Instructing your Solicitor to draw YOUR WILL
direct him to name
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
as YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the Assets and obtain a degree
of Security for proper Administration far beyond the power of
the private Trustee. An explanatory Booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at Perpetual Trustee Chambers,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
A few months ago the large balances held
in London —mostly out at short call earning
good interest —were features of Australian
banking balance-sheets. To-day the reservoir
of spare cash in London has been drained so
dry that Australian importers anxious to
meet their obligations on the other side of
the world simply cannot find the wherewithal.
Merchants have wandered from bank to bank,
often offering to transfer their substantial
accounts if accommodation could be provided
for them to settle their London commitments;
but even the largest financial institutions are
unable to meet the requirements of their own
customers. The trade returns help to ex-
plain the position which has risen in London ;
here are figures for the five months to August
31:—
Imports. Exports.
April .. £10,194,355 £10,79G,614
May .. 21,085,000 14,747,202
June .. 12,985,900 11,273,608
July . . 12,804,915 10,358,123
August .. 13,225,916. 8,756,178
So in four months the Commonwealth im-
ported goods worth £60,101,737, while ex-
ports amounted to only £45,135,111 —an ex-
cess of imports of over 15 millions. But
the position has been really worse than would
appear from those figures, for included with
the exports is wool (over six millions’ worth
for July-August alone) for which the Com-
monwealth had previously received payment
from the British Government. In pre-war
days our wool and wheat bills were sent to
London for collection and the proceeds re-
ceived about February each year. Under the
Imperial purchase schemes the Australian
pools were credited with payments a few days
following upon appraisement, though ship-
ment may not have been effected until months
afterwards. Now that pooling on behalf of
the British Government has been abandoned,
instead of receiving payment for our products
at once we have again to wait three or four
months for the proceeds in London. The
banks foresaw the difficulties and considered
their London balances ample to carry their
clients over the transition period. But what
the wisest of bankers did not foresee was that
during the same period not only would the
artificial prosperity in the Commonwealth
be maintained, but that an absolute orgy of
importing would be experienced, while at the
same time the value of exports would fall off.
Having less to receive in London and con-
siderably more to pay out, the reservoir
available to meet the heavy obligations has
been rapidly drained, and until the wool and
wheat again provide funds on the other side
.of the world we will not be in a position to
purchase heavily in overseas markets.
Some of the figures with regard to costly
imports are startling. In the two months
July and August the Commonwealth imported
apparel of a value exceeding If million,
whereas during the previous 12 months the
total was only £4,686,497, while over seven
millions’ worth of textiles were imported in
the two months compared with slightly over
19i millions during the previous 12. Heavy
increases are apparent throughout the whole
catalogue of imports, luxuries showing the
greatest expansion. The Commonwealth is
not in a singular position; India and the Far
North are undergoing a similar experience,
and South African rates for telegraphic^trans-
fers on London have been lifted to 3| p.c.
The Australian rate until a couple of weeks
ago was 17s. 6d. p.c., but was raised to 30s.
and on Monday last was further increased
to 40s. p.c. Rates for drafts have been
amended in this way:—
Old Rate. Oct. 14. Nov. 1.
Selling, p.c. p.c. p.c.
30 days 2/6 premium 10/-premium 17/6 premium
60 days 7/6 discount par 7/6 premium
Buying, , .
30 days 30/- discount 22/6 discount 15/- discount
60 days 40/- discount 32/6 discount 27/6 discount
It has been suggested in London that the
Commonwealth should ship gold to rehabili-
tate its position there. No doubt London
would be delighted to have our gold, but
we have none to spare. Even if we shipped
every sovereign and ounce of gold not required
for the support of our paper currency, the
effect would be trifling and have only a
temporary effect on the position. Certainly
we would never see the gold again; when
the London balance was strongly in the Com-
monwealth’s favor nobody proposed shipping
gold to Australia to adjust the account. So
far as the yellow metal is concerned, we have
been shipping all new gold won during recent
years. Altogether the Gold Producers’
Association has exported almost 14 million
ounces, and 164,7000 z. have just been sold to
a New York bank. Against the Common-
wealth Note issue the Federal Treasury holds
a gold reserve of 234 millions. The last
complete banking returns showed that the
18 proprietary banks and the Commonwealth
Bank between them held only a little more
than 21 millions of coin and bullion. The
Commonwealth is thus not in a position to
buttress the London exchange market, but
even were it possible the move would merely
help to maintain the flood of imports and
eventually put the Commonwealth in a worse
position.
* * * *
The South British Insurance Co.
(Maoriland) :
To Re- Re-
Aue., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1907. . £48,121 30 p.c. =£30,000 £18,121 £432,241
1908.. 40,308 30 „ „ 30,000 10,308 442,549
1909.. 53,991 30 „ ~ 30,000 23,991 466,540
1910.. 74,740 324,,,, 32,500 42,240 508,780
1911.. 83,382 35" „ „ 35,000 48,382 557,162
1912.. 83.633 374,,,, 37,500 46,133 603,295
£200,000 Reserves transferred to Capital 403,295
1913.. 91,070 13J p.c.= 40,000 51,070 454,365
1914.. 88,875 15 „ „ 45,000 43,876 498,240
1915.. 134,880 15 „ „ 45,000 89,880 588,120
1916.. 109,777 15 ~ ~ 45,000 1 4 q rzng 031 629
Written off investments, £21,268 ] 4d,jUJ ™ "
1917.. 151,779 16 p.c.= 47,500 104,279 / 35,908
£120,000 Reserve Fund capitalised .. 615,908
£BO,OOO other reserves capitalised.
1918.. 162,434 10 p.c.= 50,000 ) g7 434 703,342
Written off premises, £25,000 ( ’
1919.. 150,133 11} p.c.= 57,5 99 £ 77,633 780,975
Written off premises, £15,000 j
1920.. 237,618 14 p.c. = 70,000 167,618 948,093
The record of this Australasian-owned in-
surance co. during recent years has been
amazing, particularly in view of the chair-
man’s statement at the 1919 meeting of
shareholders that “the marine war-risk busi-
ness written was of a conservative charac-
ter.” The very rapid growth of premiums
had suggested that the South British during
the days of Wilhelm’s tin-fish activities had
backed the British Navy heavily and picked
a winner. But when the war-risk business
ceased the falling-off of premium income was
only slight, and now the latest accounts
astonish with a net premium income one-
fifth as large again as the previous best.
General trade activity in all countries
where the co. does business, and particu-
larly in Maoriland, has no doubt been an
important factor in policy-writing, and dur-
ing recent years the co.’s interests have
widened considerably, big insurances being
handled in India, China and Japam—the
South British now has six offices in the Far
North. Inflated values of properties and
commodities throughout the world have also
had a big influence on the figures. Since
the war the insurance cos. have had a won-
derful time: that was only to be expected
during a period of rapidly-rising prices and
of quick turnover of, stocks. Under such
conditions the moral hazard has been par-
ticularly good: for when almost everything
can be readily sold at a profit there is no
incentive for the unscrupulous to resort to
the firestiek. On no previous occasion in
the history of the South British has tue
loss rate been less than one-half of the net
premium income; but during the past year
the extraordinarily small loss rate of 46.4
p.c. was experienced. This comparison gives
the underwriting experience over many
years:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1900.. 215.730 130,123 57,925 60.3 „ 26.9 „
1905 . 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4 „ 27.7 „
1910.. 336,542 197,320 94,824 58:6 „ 28.1 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1916.. 558,799 296,038 171,537 52.9 „ 30.7 „
1917.. 612,870 316,669 189,250 51.7 „ 30.9 „
1918.. 656,989 329,466 215.170 50.1 32.7 „
1919.. 645,953 328,738 223,090 50.9 „ 34.5 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4 „ 32.3 „
The saving of £4 10s. p.c. in the claims
rate compared with 1919 gave the South
British £35,670 more profit during the past
12 months, and that alone was suflicient to
provide one-half of the very handsome divi-
dend. Not only was additional profit won
in this way, but the larger individual insur-
ances written resulted in a further £2 4s. p.c.
of net premiums being saved by a lower
expense rate compared with the previous
year. The loss and costs factors oper-
ated so favorably that the year’s operations
gave an underwriting surplus of no less
than £166,927, compared with £94,125 for
1919, £112,347 for 1918, and £75,061 for
1914. The whole of that £166,927 cannot,
however, be regarded as actual net profit
earned during the past year: many of the
policies which contributed to the surplus
had not run out. The management there-
fore tacked £66,000 of the year’s surplus to
the reserve for unexpired risks, which now
stands at £396,000. equal to a very substan-
tial 50 p.c. of the past year’s net premiums.
Underwriting surpluses are only one
source of profit in insurance business; the
insurance offices are also investment con-
cerns. The South British at August 31
had no less than 1| million of funds earn-
ing something. Interests and rents, less
income tax, last year gave £71,115, which
more than covered the 14 p.c. dividend. Dur-
ing the past four years the whole of the
underwriting surpluses and £5550 balance
of interest earnings after paying divs. have
been left in the business. A glance at the
reserves column of the first table, taking
into consideration the capitalisation of ac-
cumulated profits, shows how rapid the
storage of surpluses has been. But the past
half-dozen years have been very fat com-
pared with the previous six: —
Added
Profits. Divided. to Funds.
1908-14..' £475,691 £220,000 £255,691
1914-20.. 946,621 315,000 531,621
During the latter period there was also some
writing down of assets. Shareholders have,
of course, had a sumptuous banquet. Paid
capital is a half-million, but no less than
£400,000 represents bonus scrip issued dur-
ing the past eight years. To the old holder
the latest 14 p.c. is thus equal to a glitter-
ing 70 p.c. ....
From the policy-holders’ point of view the
South British position is entirely satisfac-
tory. Not including £20,000 set aside for
contingencies, and after providing for all
outstanding claims and for the latest dis-
tribution to the proprietors, funds totalled
£1,448,593, equal to more than 183 p.c. of
last year’s net premiums. Owing to the
larger voluihe of business handled, that is
15 points lower than at the previous balance,
nevertheless it is much better than most
overseas offices can show. Put another
way: without the assistance of incoming
premiums the South British could meet
claims nearly four times greater than last
year’s losses. And nowadays not only are
risks more widely distributed, but funds are
also in more satisfactory form than in pre-
war days;—
~ 1914 / 1920 ■<
Public securities £206,124 21.8p,c. £986,672 52.1p.c.
Deposits, cash &
book debts .. 145,396 15.4 ~ 509,774 26.9 ~
Premises . . 262,191 27.8 ~ 233,892 12.4 ~
Mortgages .. 297,034 31.6 „ 91,824 4.9 „
Stocks and de-
bentures .. 31,925 3.4 ~ 70,042 3.7 ~
During the past year the book value of
premises (which had previously been dimin-
ishing in the balance-sheet) moved from
£195,873 to £233,892, due no doubt mostly
to the outlay on the fine new Sydney pre-
mises now nearing completion.
In addition to insurance the South British
undertakes trustee business —this branch
apparently calling itself the Guardian Trust
Co. But whether the trusts are handled
away from fire and marine hazards and the
branch is provided with protecting funds of
its own —as it certainly should be —is not.
stated. Incidentally, the co.’s 200,000 £5
shares paid to 50s. are now being replaced
by a million £1 shares paid to 10s., leaving
the same amount of uncalled capital avail-
able for the protection of policy-holders
should disaster overtake the co.
All that need be added is that recent fat
profits have been the product of abnormal
conditions which have favored the under-
writers, and those conditions must be dis-
turbed sooner or later. Prices generally have
probably soared to the limit; in some in-
stances they are already declining. During the
period of the swing-back to the new normal
the hazards which have lately been practically
non-existent will re-appear. If the slide is
gradual the insurance cos. are not likely to
be hurt; but if there are sudden bumps there
will probably be sleepless nights for insur-
ance managers. But in a co. like the South
British, with risks well spread and divs. pro-
vided by interest earnings, shareholders are
not likely to lose any rest, however much
the moral hazard and other insurance
spectres may jazz on the management’s grey
hairs by night.
* * * *
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in
Sydney and elsewhere, and do much of it on
a time-payment basis :
Dividends.
, *
Pref. Written Re-
Profits.(6 p.c.) Ordinary.- Off. serves.
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1909.. 35,473 6542 8 p.c. = 12,712 2660 3,401
1910.. 39,640 7500 8 „ ~14,000 3167 18,374
Insurance Fund dropped in, £1920 .. 20,294
1911.. 43,482 8250 8 p.c.= 15,000 2788 37,738
1912.. 51,430 9000 8 ~,, 16,000 2946 61,222
1913.. 36,121 9000 8 „ ~16,000 3379 68,964
1914.. 38.660 9000 8 ~ ~ 16,000 4171 78,453
1915.. 34,868 9000 8 „ ~16.000 4066 84,255
1916.. 39,607 9000 8 „ ~16,000 4873 93,989
1917.. 45,271 9000 10 „ ~20,000 4148 106,112
1918.. 49,787 9000 10 „ ~20,000 4233 122,666
Reserves capitalised, £87,500 . . 35,166
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 7-J p.c. 10 p.c.
1919.. 54,193 9000 3281 20,000 4771 52,307
£60,000 (in shares) received for
goodwill of Bon Marche business. . 112,307
Less £3026 Bon Marche flotation
exes. . . ■ ■ • • • • 109,281.
84 p.c. 71 p.c. 12£ p.c.
1920.. 80,174 12.750 6562 25,000 4861 140,282
This co. has had a remarkably good year:
after providing for the pref. divs. (and note
that the six per cents, have shared along
with the ordinaries in a bonus-distribution)
disclosed net profits available for the ordi-
naries represented 28 p.c. on their capital.
This very fat return is, of course, liable to make
Marcus Clark’s another target for the pro-
fiteer-hunter. The large profits do not, how-
ever, necessarily mean that the co. has
charged stiffer prices for its, wares than it
used to: indeed, public inquiries have shown
that cos. in the same line of business have
actually been making a smaller percentage
of profit on turnover. What has counted
most in the manufacture of large profits has
been the greatly increased spending power of
the community due to the flood of paper
issued by the Federal Treasury during the
war and since, while the higher prices which
our products have fetched in the world's
markets have assisted in a small way. No
doubt, the abnormal conditions have also
expanded this co.’s t.-p. business, a very pro-*
Stable sideline which it has developed. And
some of the extra profits, may have been due
to the co. pushing business, for it has become
an energetic concern, and both at Wollon-
gong and at Newcastle new premises are
going up.
Though since 1914 paid capital has moved
from £850,000 to £437,500, no new money
has been got in from shareholders, the in-
crease of £87,500 being accounted for by
the capitalisation of reserves over 12 months
ago. But whereas the gross profits from
trading, after deducting wages, etc., and
providing for contingencies, was £44,253 for
1914, last year the figures soared to
£101,300. Management exes., interest, taxes
and depreciation now call for £37,354 com-
pared with £15,676 six years ago. So net
profits are more than twice what they were
just prior to the war. A feature of the early
years of the Marcus Clark business was that
for a considerable period shareholders were
content with divs. of only 8 p.c. p.a., though
the profits could easily have provided some-
thing larger. The co. was thus helped con-
siderably by undistributed profits, no less
than a visible £149.408 having been stored
up during the past 10 years. Though during
that period no more than £50,000 of new
capital has been got in, the balance-sheet
figures have expanded in this way :
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Mortgages . . . . £54,000 £69,500 £61,500 £70,000
Other debts .. 103,187 47,064 200,180 213,710
Stock .. .. 179,357 158,758 228,400 228,475
Book debts . . 171,402 192,802 305,566 304,735
Freeholds . . . . 90,556 93,604 99,042 123,189
Leaseholds.. .. 18,929 72,825 71,586 68,738
Plant, etc. .. 18,724 21,633 23,219 22,860
Shares in other cos. 9,993 9,993 120,493
Cash, etc. .. 7,343 13,702 31,462 19,533
More expensive stocks and heavier book debts
have called for considerable outside financial
assistance, and the recent outlay on new
properties has added to the strain. So the
directors now propose to call up the balance
of 10s. per share on the 175,000 7i p.c. prefs.
which were issued against the £87,500 of re-
serves capitalised over a year ago. The return
to the old ordinaries is very sweet: for every
£lOO of thejr holding prior to the 1919 opera-
tion they now get £l2 10s. by way of ordinary
div., with 7§ p.c. on the £25 of pref. capital
allotted, together equal to a return of over
p.c. p.a.
During the past year Bon Marche, a side-
line business which the co. has developed
over many years, was floated off. Its tangible
assets were shown as worth £90,000, but the
parent co. decided to load it with £60,000 of
goodwill, which it took in fully-paid shares.
That goodwill appraisement has been taken
credit for in the latest accounts, £60,000
having been added to reserves. So in con-
sidering the assets which Marcus Clark’s now
displays it is necessary to recall that almost
one-half of the “shares in other cos.” item
consists merely of the goodwill of the Bon
Marche business. The co. has done wonder-
fully well during recent years, and though it
has become more widely known its future
cannot be gauged on the results shown lately.
The recent figures would not have been
possible had we not been suffering from a
plethora of Government lOU’s. The flow of
paper is now coming to an end, and dis-
illusionment as to the nature of the recent
apparent prosperity may be sudden. The
Commonwealth’s population is little larger
than it was a few years ago, we are inflicted
with a mammoth war debt and half the
population is suffering from go-slow—how
then can Marcus Clark’s net profits be ex-
pected to be maintained at more than double
those shown in the peaceful and more in-
dustrious days prior to 1914?
**■ * *
The Solomon Islands Rubber Planta-
tions, Ltd. — Though the name of this Bris-
bane co. would imply that it is a rubber con-
cern it nowadays has practically no interest
in that elastic commodity. When it took over
the Ysabel Island properties about 10 years
ago 112 acres had been planted with rubber,
but only 8361 b. have been harvested and no
further' planting has been undertaken. At
the close of its first year (1911) paid capital
was £19,500, the plantation account stood
at £27,131, and 255 acres carried 13,570
cocoanut-trees. At July 31 last 1001 acres
contained 55,087 trees, but only slightly over
one-third of the area was in bearing. As
usual, development work has cost more than
was anticipated. The whole of the £60,000
of capital originally authorised has gone


Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
ThePaciflc Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A ‘WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
1/6
Qt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 2/4
1/2
j 7d. (minimum
i 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7<L (minimum
(11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mnv be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1546 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific.
77 Street, SYDNEY. : ;
If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because" of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being' annoyed needlessly,
the famous little Wayne Bel] Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same currefit thut
lights your house, and will need no further attention
atter once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt.
All buyers of Copper Wires, Copper Cables, Copper
Busbars, Copper Rods, etc., are notified that, as
agents for Metal Manufactures, Ltd., Port Kembla,
N.S.W., we are now in a position to fill all orders
for same promptly. Send to-day for particulars,
prices, etc., to Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [2
* •> * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe. —Copy of letter received
from Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th Feb
1919: “Dear Sir—Yours of the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. The cost of
maintenance during the six years of service has been
nil. If we were putting in any further pipe lines
your firm would certainly be favored with our orders,
lours truly (Sgd.), S. Southam, Sec.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville,
JST.b.W. Contractors to all State Governments.—
Advt.
* * * *
ASBESTOS. The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
j.oik and Wvnyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
* * * «
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us tor Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
w * * m
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Muni-
rs 1 * Concrete Mixer. Sizes from li to 54 cubic
it. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
w i Gl , 'Ceplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
tt 1 Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt
* * ■* *
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
O.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soe., etc., consult-
ing engineer valuing, organising, technical advice
mining, metallurgy flotation and selective flotation
pioceases, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
s3&£B3u n ! 1M “ “ d Tel * sra ”“
* * * •
RpnnWtM u G . ,a i swar * ar >d Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s &
S'”’ Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
r or- r° r Wnt( L for Particulars. 11. B. Selbv k Co.,
G , eorge (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Rourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
ALL» Locomobiles
VV ill cope with an overload to the extent of
nearly 50 per cent, above the normal load.
Get particulars
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Queen & Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne.
• ’Phone, Central 4031.
61 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER. Leather Belting^.
J. C. LUDOWICI (EX SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED in 1858.
Made and
guaranteed by
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
n
E 3
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers* Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
, ___j^ nu * acturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
into the estates, and last year 12,000 10 p.c. £1
i ssue< i to help, 4s. 6d. per share
(±2700) having been got in so far. In addi-
tion there is an £BOOO blister on the pro-
perties, while at the latest balance £1773
was owing to the bank and sundry creditors.
. * total assets of £73,771, £06,606 has gone
in acquiring and developing the three estates.
Unly 1 100 of the 5a,087 trees are so far in
tull bearing, though 11.570 are producing
but not fully matured. The copra crop has
worked out this way during recent years:—
, _ In bearing. Copra yield.
TnH •• 175 acres 117,3761 b.
1918 .. 172 „ 161.405,,
1919 .. 210 119 9RQ
1920 .. 339 ;; in:S*:;
So though a larger area is producing, the
•' leld has fallen off, and the directors tender
no-explanation, though a year ago the man-
agei reported that lack of drainage and the
resting of a portion of the estate accounted
for the smaller 1919 production. The fea-
ture of the past year’s operations was the im-
proved copra market, the average Sydney
price having been £4B 10s. Bd. per ton
compared with £25 18s. 6d. during the pre-
x-n*olJths.But the planter has not
had the tull benefit of that better price, for
and selling charges have moved from
.U7ld. per lb. to l]d., equal to an increase
ot almost ill per ton. Harvesting and dry-
ing costs are also heavier, labor having be-
come scarcer. recruiting more expensive and
foodstuffs dearer. Altogether the past year’s
costs increased by over £5 11s. per
ton. However, after allowing- £378 for
renewals, replacements and depreciation, a
, Profit of £1193 showed up, equal to
slightly more than 2id. per lb. on
the year’s crop. The 10 p.c. to the
prefs. absorbs £179, leaving a balance
xi V 1 Profit and Loss, including
£loo brought forward, of £lllB. The co.’s
future depends entirely on the behavior of
the doubtful copra market and on costs. As
pioduction increases field costs may come
down a trifle, but apparently little relief can
be expected m other repects. If the former
could be reduced to l jd. per lb., with skipping
and selling charges on the present basis each
ton copra would cost (apart from administra-
tion charges) over £23 6s. before it was dis-
posed of, and that is 15s. more than the
avemge Sydney market price between 1913-
* * * *
w Th ® Belong R. S. and S. Woollen and
v\ oi sted Co-op. Manufacturing Co., Ltd
th xino 1 AAA C 0^ ei : u which set out to finance
a ±199.900 mill by subscriptions from only
those entitled to the War Gratuity—no
shareholder being entitled to take up an in-
terest exceeding £loo—-has gone to registra-
tion and scrip is now being issued. Alto-
gether ±68,000 has been subscribed and
applications continue to come in, many pros-
pective shareholders evidently having held off
until there were indications of the co. getting
to business. The promoters originally
planned to commence derations about two
years after registration, but the directors are
now considering the local purchase of
machinery to turn wool-tops into tweed until
a complete plant is available. The co. under-
takes to supply war gratuitants with a
limited quantity of cloth per annum at cost
price, and the directors are holding the share-
list open for further subscriptions from Dig-
gers and others willing to participate.
* * * *
A recent Wild Cat suggestion was fol-
lowed with regard to the formation of a syn-
dicate to purchase Wyoming. Macquarie-
street’s expensive pile of medical and den-
tal “chambers.” But the deal was not com-
pleted, £79,500 being refused at the auction
in Sydney. Still, the syndicate—which con-
sists wholly or almost wholly of tenants
and sub-tenants—hasn’t altogether lost hope
of securing the roof over its head.
* * * *
By the defeat at last of “Father” Out-
trim, Vic. _ mining loses its oldest Parlia-
mentary friend. He has done it many ser-
vices, but his first and greatest was ren-
dered when he induced Parliament to buy
out the till then private owners of the cyan-
ide process. The purchase liability was
soon wiped out by a small royalty, and
since then the process has been free to all.
* *
C. P. Dickinson, prominent in Westralia
in the early days of Coolgardie and before
Kalgoorlie was discovered, and in Broken
Hill before that, passed out in New York
last month. With others he established
the Fremantle smelters, of which he was the
first consulting-engineer. Later on he took
to London on option the Perth tramways
concession, for which he had paid a hefty
sum. Three days prior to the option expir-
ing the necessary cash had not been forth-
coming from John Bull, and the prospects
of exercising the option looked hopeless.
Then Dickinson happened to meet Stoneham
casually at the Hotel Cecil, and that chance
acquaintance gave Perth its tram-service and
provided Dickinson with a cheque funning
well into five figures.
* * * *
Died last week, at 70, George Smith, the
discoverer of the Baker’s Creek gold-mine
(N.S.W.). A Monaro native, all wire and
whipcord, he was a bory prospector. The
discovery of Baker’s Creek was no fluke, as
he had prospected the district for years. A
fourth share in it was offered to more than
one man for £l5, the first year’s rental. But
this area did not include the reef afterwards
found. The surveyor in running the line
picked up a rich specimen which he gave
Smith, who, from its location and the nature
of the auartz, concluded it was not from
the reef he knev of; but he soon located the
famous Smith’s Iteef at the only point where
it was exposed. Two tons from this spot
gave about K?4oz. gold, and the first half-
year’s crushing with a 10-head battery
yielded an average of 13oz. to the ton. Smith
made about £50,000 out of Baker’s Creek,
and inside 10 years was back on scratch
again. The mine at one time had a market
value of half a million, and produced about
13 million worth of gold. Smith had a
splendid knowledge of the geological features
of the New England district, and knew most
of the places where kindly country and likely
quartz were to be met with.
* * * *
Drought cut three months’ working time
out of the Y-Water (N.S.W.) calendar, and
so it admits going to the bad £1784.
But that was after spending £3660
on repairs and renewals. Wash treated
amounted to 173,400 cub. yd., yield-
ing 69 tons tin oxide. As manager Wil-
son wanted to keep his staff together he
installed a portable plant on the eastern
side of the lease and kept the tin-
dressers re-treating residues. About three tons
oxide were saved this way, but the real gain
was that the men were held together, and
given wider experience in their work. The
co. shows a surplus of liquid assets of
£6085, the bank overdraft having been re-
duced to. £9087. What helped Y-Water was
that £323 per ton was obtained for tin, or
£23 more than during the previous six
months. Now tin is back again, but the
world’s opinion is that the white metal is so
needed that the flop is only temporary.
* * * *
Ravenswood (Q.) ..is being given a final
flutter by the Golden Hill Syndicate. The
field has been dead for some years, though a
little work has been done on the Duke and
the Grant, and on several small outside
shows. The syndicate is tackling the big
“buck,’’ or mother, lode, which runs thi-ough
the main auriferous area, and on which many
attempts at profitable extraction have failed.
None, however, had such good grounds fox-
hoping for success, despite high costs, as this
syndicate, for the present scheme appears to
be the first designed to systematically treat
the deposits on the lai-ge scale their size
permits and the low tenor of the ore de-
mands. The outcrop is well known and has
been traced for over a mile; it varies in
width over that distance from a few feet
to 3o feet. It will not take many ’weights to
make it pay, worked on a large scale, owing
to the free state of the gold and its fine-
ness—it was worth £4 when gold was at
standard price. Government subsidies to
the tune of £lOOO, besides much private capi-
tal, have been swallowed by the field. Compiled
returns of various periods show that about
7000 tons have returned just over 2000 oz.
gold, an average of about 6dwt. ' Some of
the ferruginous portions have carried up to
15dwt. The lode appears to be a line of
fractxu-ed country much fissured and jointed,
carrying stringers of marcasite and pyrite as
well as gold. The reefs intersect it, and it
has none of the heavy zinc-blende which all
the cross-reefs carried. The present syndi-
cate has spent over £lOOO in sinking—the
shaft is now down about 120 ft.—and in pur-
chasing equipment. Values are being closely
checked, and if they hold out sufficient
promise an attempt will be made to raise
capital. To those who knew Ravenswood
20. years ago the town nowadays is a pathetic
sight.
* * ■* *
Roma disti-ict (Q.) contains some small
seams of excellent coal, which it has hitherto
been impossible to work owing to distance
from rail. Now that the Roma-Injune
Creek extension has been completed it is
likely that all western supplies will be raised
there. The seams are known to pass under
this extension, but their extent is not yet
known. Some of the seams are excellent:
one of 3ft. running through Mt. Cornwall
contains from 3 to 10 p.e. ash, a cleaner coal
than that now being hauled from the Darling
Downs pits. The railway depots from Roma
and west thereof use. 19,000 "tons annually,
and this fuel has to be hauled from Oakey,
200 miles to Roma and 480 miles to Cunna-
mulla, adding from 4s. to 9s. per ton to costs.
There is thus a strong inducement for Roma
to supply its own needs and those of its
western neighbors.
* * * *
From another driller;—
The remarks of “Experienced Oil-driller” (B.
14/IQ/’2O) on the wet-drilling at Roma are open
to criticism based on American experience, where
both dry- and wet-boring has been done. With dry-
drilling at Roma there would have been a distinct
probability, when the gas was released from pressure,
of tools and casing being blown out of the bore!
and of the bore being totally destroyed. Under dry-
boring for oil in America, gas has been a lost asset,
and in at least one instance the gas lost was immea-
surably more valuable than the oil ultimately recov-
ered. As regards the percentage of octane present,
which was stated to be large, how was it possible
to arrive at an approximation of that fraction in
view of the writer’s remarks that owing to the rela-
tively high temperature of the oil in the absorption
tests some of the lighter fractions must have been
missed? Until that amount is known it is obviously
impossible to say what is the percentage of octane
in the gas. The statement as to evidence of petro-
leum and gas in bores in the Longreaeh and
Winton districts is correct, but it is all-important
that anticlinal areas should be delimited in that vast
stretch of country before prospective boring is under-
taken.
* * * *
“De Carteret”: What a sweeping asser-
tion that was of Mine-Minister Scaddau s
that ‘‘all the Government geologists had
reported against the possibility of oil being
found in the West”! How do they know
there is no oil in Westralia? And has any
State geologist in W.A. ever seen a produc-
ing oil-well? From the boundary of S. Aus.
right across the Nullarbor Plains, both north
and south of the East-West railway, the
country is limestone of a considerable"thick-
ness and not merely a veneer. The logs of
the water-bores put down by the Railway
Department are on my table, and they do
not forbid the likelihood of petroleum in
that district. Test-drilling on rising ground
or where the rocks are folded would most
likely reveal oil, perhaps not in payable
quantities, because such slight evidence as
there is points to the necessity for deep-
drilling if we are to strike oil in Australia.
One oil chemist located and identified petro-
leum not far from Bunbury (W.A.), and his
report was checked and corroborated by an-
other petroleum expert about one month
later. Time, neither of them would commit
themselves to the statement that oil existed
in payable quantities, yet they were agreed
the surface substance was oil. A dull Min-
ister and a stupid Mines Department stopped
development by offering us a 12 months’
prospecting license. In other words, we
were to be allowed 365 days, including Sun-
days, to drill to perhaps 5000 ft. at a cost
of £20,000, on a title not worth the paper
it was typed upon! Could the course of
crass stupidity and shortsightedness go
further? What was the use of telling these
Government officials the facts? Not one
single State geologist has ever officially
admitted that petroleum may ultimately be
found in Australia, and most of them igno-
rantly deny the possibility of ever finding
it! Yet this is a tertiary continent, with black
and brown coal and kerosene shale in enor-
mous quantities in every State, and any text-
book will inform any reader of ordinary
intelligence who is not a State official that
petroleum is never found far away from
any one of . this carbon family.
*** ‘ *
George Bryant having rubbed Langi
Logan South’s deep-lead mud off his patent
leathers, John Cock, jun., drifts from
Ivutherglen to take his place. What he
a mine that has swallowed up
£lOO,OOO represents calls,
£36,500 gold and premiums, while £11,666
was the initial bit of cash with which it
started its rake’s progress. Bryant com-
plains bitterly of the want of labor, which
not only affected output but stopped develop-
ment.. .That would have been less a source
of wailing if about 6, 7 and 9 rises crab-
holes and low-grade wash had not knocked
estimates and truck-road samplings to blazes.
So all payable wash in the north workings
and the No. 8 rise have been taken out.
leaving extraction confined around No 2
rise, where there is about 1200 fathoms.
Thereafter the ground at No. 3 will be the
lineh-pin of this part of the lead. In the
bottom level the same story of uneven ground
and patchy wash, has to be told. Some better
ground exists east off No. 4 rise, but the
tally about No. 3 cannot be told till the
water is drained. John Cock, jun., has
plenty of time ahead for meditation and
prayer as to what may confront him there
or farther down the gutter. The market
puts about a 2£d. buying valuation on his
chance of success.
* * * *
Consulting-engineer McKay, late of the
Bischoff, is running the tape over Avlett’s
Reward, at Barn Bluff (Tas.). The forma-
is a large dyke about 300 ft. long by
160 ft. wide. So far prospecting has been
confined to surface cuts, which are said to
have averaged a little over 1 p.c. tin In-
accessibility and altitude necessitate the
deposit being either much richer than that,
or of vast extent, to warrant exploitation.
* * * »
An amalgamation of the various holdings
around the South Bischoff, Waratah (Tas )
has been effected, and a start made to convert
the lower flats into a ground-sluicing propo-
sition. At the South mine operations are at
a standstill,, and most of the machinerv
ordered during the boom, and never erected
has gone under the hammer.
*.* * *
Tasmanian Geologist Hills having reported
favorably on the clay deposit at Flowery
Gully, the cement industry there is to be
financed by Launceston capital. The* esti-
inoVfi . 1 1 < l ua n t ities available gives approxi-
mately 1J million tons limestone and a half
million tons clay.
* * *
n • j'. , I - e ' sas - at the Federation. South
eemslurk (las.) ! S pushing ahead with
is investigation of the lodes, and is being
fiM Witli , several promising develop-
-lil ! e oth , er day in rising from the
tunnel he tapped the Cumberland lode, 4ft.
ot which has assayed 17.8 p.c. tin. Mean-
time values in the Big Trench lode have
improved from 1.5 p.c. to 5.15 p.c. over nearly
osrt. Ihe hydro-electric scheme is well for-
ward, and the Tasmania Cold Co.’s 40hd.
battery should soon be on its way to the
mine.
* * * *
~ T? s . sy Borer”: The Chinese tin-dresser of
tne Malay Peninsula is a living wonder. Not
only does lie get a quick idea of values by
sieving, but he is an expert in concentrating
by wet tin-sieving. The modus operandi is
to have a large tub of water, over which
Number 1 ’ or “Number 2” squats on a
plank, with tubs of ore and a cocoanut-shell
near by, a cigarette pendant in his lips, a 100-
mesh sieve grasped with both hands. The
coarser tin is washed by hand in this wav,
and results in a product of 74.5 to 75.0 p.c.
metallic tin by cyanide assay. “Amung,” or
titaniferous iron-ore, is generally the material
to be removed by this method ; and even the
comparatively high specific gravity of the
material does not prevent our animated frue-
vanner from washing 14 piculs of 133 Mb.
each per working day of eight hours.


RETURNING TO SCALE.
CLERK OF SCALES: “I say, old chap, you don’t draw the weight you started off to England with.”


C-
I
C 7or 3>ery Occasion.
ABBOTS LAGER
c 7He> < 73ippr a Vftiti/
BREWED EROM PORE ONET
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of dailv use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Hears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
«
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA. >
CHARHING ROOF GARDpN.
Management P. T. CHEKSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
November birthdays:—
Prof. Skeats (Melb.), 45, geologist E. J. Dunn,
F.G.S. (Vic.), 76, and Bishop McCarthy (Sandhurst),
62, on Ist; ex-Treasurer Simpson Newland (S.A.),
85, on 2nd; Prof. John Smyth (Melb.), 56, on 3rd ;
journalist T. W. Heney (Syd.)-, 58, on 4th; Lancelot
Stirling (S.A.), 76, on sth ; Federal Minister Massy
Greene, 46, on 6th; Prof. Woodhouse (Syd.), 54,
Prof. Williams (Tas.), 68, R. H. Cambage (Syd.),
61, ex-Police Commissioner W. G. Cahill (Bris.), 66,
and ex-Chief Justice Parker (W.A.), 74, on 7th;
A. G. Ralston, senior ICC. (N.S.W.), 60,’ on 10th;
Hugh R. Denfcon, 55, on 11th; Melbourne’s ex-Gaud
Mayor Cabena, 67, on 12tlx; C. A. Lee, form drW
M.L.A. for Tenterfleld, 78, and Principal Harper
(Syd.), 76, on 13th; “Steele Rudd,’’ 52, Rabbi Cohen
(Great Synagogue, Syd.), 58, and J. S. Battye (Perth
Public Library), 49 on 14th; Chas. Bean
(Australia’s War Historian), 41, on 18th; Dr. J. M.
Creed, M.L.C. (1C.&.W.), 78, on 21st; J. Lang Camp-
bell, K.C., 61, on ,22nd ; ex-Federal Treasurer W. A.
Watt, 49, and Archgaiters Lowther Clarke, 70, on
23rd; Captain Blackburn (S.A. V.C.), 28, on 25th;
poet Rod. Quinn, 51, and M.L. journalist Mark
Cohen, 71, on 26th; Dr. AV. Ramsay Smith (S.A.),
61, and astronomer Walter F. Gale, 55, on 27th ;
Justice Cussen (Vic.), 61, on 29th; N.S.AV. Speaker
Levy, 48, and poet Sydney Jephcott, 56, on 30th.
Australia’s former acquaintance Nick
Willis is still acquiring moderate affluence
in London by pur-
suing literature or
a distant relation.
After being a n
authority upon the
alleged “white
slave” traffic he has
now launched out
as a rival to Have-
lock Ellis on sex
psychology with a
volume, “Wedded
Love or Married
Misery?” As a
guarantee of good
faith or something,
the advts. mention
that the distin-
guished author was
for “16 years
member of Parlia-
ment at Sydney,
Australia.”
Dr. COLIN
MACKENZIE,
founder of the
Australian School
of Medical
Research.
Australia lost a great shipping-man when
Benjamin Wickham Macdonald died sud-
denly at his Brisbane club. A Scot from
Morayshire, he was in the service of the
8.1.5. N. Co. at Calcutta when the doctor
ordered him away, and the Black Indian
people sent him to Brisbane to open a new
agency. That was in 1884, and he was only
31 at the time, but he soon showed the stuff
that was in him. He joined the A.S.N. Co.,
went over to the A.U.S.N. at the amalgama-
tion, and did more than any other man to
make that co. the big thing it became. For
years he was general manager of the B. L
and Queensland Agency Co. Then in 1915.
'with David Hamilton, Gordon Wesche and
others, he formed Macdonald, Hamilton and
Co., which looks after the Australian in-
terests of the P. and O. and many other
shipping lines. Like James Chalmers, of
Sydney, whom in some ways he resembled,
Macdonald’s one hobby was music, and in
his younger days he uplifted a tuneful tenor
at Liedertafel concerts.
Exit at 66 George Rylands, once M.L.A.
foi Gympie (Q.), and one of the early
Labor battlers of the north-eastern State.
Rylands was a North of Ireland man, and
Andrew Fisher’s colleague in the representa-
tion of the gold town; in fact, Fisher’s hold
on Gympie was largely due to the wav
R.vdands looked after the rolls in the bail
old Tory days. In token of gratitude
Andrew made George Director of Lands in
the Northern lerritory. He wag the Direc-
tor who mime out” when called upon by
t ie dissatisfied A.W.U. and assisted to picket
tee Government buildings, a spectacle which
moved Australia to mirth.
At Manly (N.S.W.) last week died C.
L. Morgan, one of the veterans of the Aus-
tralian press. He was associated with news-
papers in Queensland. N. S. Wales and West-
rafia, among the publications he edited being
Perth Truth, the Kalgoorlie Sun and the
V\ agga Express. In his younger days he
HERBERT BOOTH, Evangelist, discovers
his old friend in Sydney.
-was an officer in the British Army. Strangely
enough, 1 rank Brown, Morgan’s successor
in the editorship of the Sun, predeceased
him by a week, having been fatally injured
m a motor accident. Morgan died full of
years, but Brown was a comparative young-
ster ; he was not only a journalist of pro-
mise, but also one of th-e finest baritone
singers in the West.
Vic. Hansard men won’t be sorry to have
a spell from Tunnecliffe, easily the fastest
speaker in the Assembly. Under the watch
m a recent speech he averaged 216 words a
minute. He takes his defeat like a sport,
and intends to go back to his bootmaking.
Gavan Duffy, the “Sinn Fein ambassador
to h ranee, who was recently told by Mil-
lerand that he must cease his anti-British
propaganda there or be expelled, is an Aus-
tralian. Looking something like a youthful
and sawn-off edition of Edward VII., he is
a son of Charles Gavan Duffy by his third
marriage, and so a half-brother of the High
Court Judge. He was the solicitor who
worked up the defence of Roger Casement.
, Wyoming, Macquarie-street, the home of
half a hundred Sydney doctors, which was
passed in at £i 9,500 at auction last week,
is owned by J. O’Brien, who made his for-
tune out of faith-healing.
Wagga (N.S.W.) simply can’t keep out
of the limelight. It was one of the centres
of interest during the Tichborne trial—the
biggest thing of its sort in the history of
Biitish litigation and now ex-Sister Ligouri
has started an action against the It.C. Bishop
of the place, alleging false imprisonment and
claiming £5OOO damages.
The night Speight, Ford and Greene (Vic.
Kailway Commissioners) were suspended bv
Lie Shiels Government (1892), Outtrim,
Graham and Peacock, who helped to shunt
them, sought relaxation by going to see the
minstrels at Victoria Hall, Bourke-street.
That was the occasion on which Will Whit-
burn asked Peacock not to compete so
openly with him as a laugh-infector. The
Mo survive. All the other members of that
Cabinet have gone. Moral?
Holford Wettenhall, who has passed out at
the home of his son, Dr. R. R. Wettenhall. in
Toorak-road, had outlived most of his con-
temporaries. He was in the Vic. House of
Landlords from 1882 till 1886, and held on
to life long enough to see his son Marcus
returned to the Assembly as Farmers’ Union
member for Lowan. Coming to Vic. 60 years
ago from the Speck Holford Wettenhall was
one of the pioneers of the Wimmera, and
latterly had interested himself in fruit-grow-
ing in the Grampians.
The Vic. Assembly has not now one
lawyer of eminence among its members.
M,u key,, the Speaker, is the only barrister.
Ihe solicitors are Lawson, Baird, Snowball
and Eggleston, all of them Liberals. Slater
who is finishing his articles in Maurice
Blackburn s office, is the only man in the
law on the Opposition side. Donald Mac-
kinnon, Agar Wynne and even Norman
Bayles will be missed when legal bills are
under discussion. This is the House that
once had as many as 16 lawyers at one
time, including Higgins, Irvine, Isaacs,
JMoule, Wrixon, James Moloney, George
Turner, Fink, Best and J. G. Duffy.
C he w Chong, M.L.’s most remarkable
( hme.se, has gone where his ancestors went.
He descended upon Maoriland in 1866, being
then 38, and in 1887 started the first dairy
factory in the three islands, thereby pioneer-
ing what proved to be the Dominion's
greatest industry. He married a white
woman and reared a family which included a
crack cyclist and a brilliant songstress.
Chong had uncommon business ability, and
died, worth a fortune. One of the many
stories told of him concerned a bankrupt,
who heightened the effect of the customary
hard-luck story at the meeting of creditors
by bursting into tears. “Wliaffor you cly?”
asked the indignant Chong, “You no got
leason to cly. Me got leason to cly. Sle
losein sixity quid !”
R. R. Stevenson, dead in Adelaide at 73,
was a grandson of the great Scotch engineer,
and therefore cousin to Robert Louis. Half
a century ago he was with Goyder pros-
pecting the track for S.A.’s plucky venture,
the overland telegraph line.
Dead in Adelaide, at 76, Robert Kelly, a
farmer who was in the Assembly 30 years
ago and afterwards did great work on the
Pastoral Board, where he stayed till his re-
tirement in 1917. He should have re’tired
two years before, but his services in drought
relief work were too valuable to lose at the
time.
While E. T. Fisk was demonstrating his
wireless ’phone at Federal Parliament House
the other night Cyril Monks, a young ex-
naval operator in Hobart, keying away at a
small plant he had rigged himself, was listen-
ing to the music. Monks and his twin
brother Alfred were the first wireless opera-
tors from Tasmania to join the R.A.N.
Alfred is now in the Commonwealth wire-
less service at Hobart and Cyril has a taxa-
tion-office job in the same place.
Perth is about to say good-bye to Bilking-'
ton, its grave and iconoclastic M.L.A., and
his successor is likely to be Harry Mann, of
the remarkable Ugly Men’s Association.
Until last year Mann belonged to the
C.1.D., and he retired with the reputation of
being about the cleverest detective the West
lias known.- He was uncommonly success-
ful in tracking down persons with a weak-
ness for misusing knives, revolvers and
prussic acid. His most famous cases were
those of Martha Rendall, the poisoner, and
Hagen, the Broome squarehead who lured
a too-eager i.p.b. aboard a lugger and mur-
dered him, with the help of two Manilamen.
for the money that was to have purchased
a mythical pearl. All three were hanged.
Died at Sydney Hospital a few days ago
a German who was anything but a Hun
His name was Friesland, and his father was
Finance Minister in Hanover before that
little State was forcibly abducted into the
German Empire. One of the sons was
German Consul in China at the outbreak of
the war, and another was general manager
of one of the biggest German steamship
lines, but their just-dead brother was a rebel
all his life. Refusing to serve in the Ger-
man Army, he left the country for ever.'
But his extreme radicalism got him into
trouble in Sydney at the time of the Boer
War, and lie left for Africa with the inten-
tion of fighting with the Boers. However,
some incidental adventures changed his
views, and he fought three years with the
British. The Great War brought him evil
times, especially as he refused to wear the
ribbons that might have made things easier
for him, and towards the end he looked
much older than his 45 years. All through lie
was the sort of man who would give his last
pair of socks to a fripnd.
Edmund Wells, who died lately in Eng-
land, was well knowm in South Aus. 40
years ago, when, as a young man, he super-
intended for his uncle’s London firm the
erection of Cape Jaffa and Tiparra Reef
lighthouses. Reinforced concrete was his
strong point, and his patents had made him
rich His brother Alfred is one of Adel-
aide s leading architects.
Adelaide Register staff has farewelled
G. J. Matthews. Editor Sowden found him
-u years ago as a boy-conductor on the Park-
side horse-trams, and encouraged him to take
up journalism, for which he seemed cut out.
He has been president of the S.A. branch of
the Journalists’ Association, and latterly has
specialised in cow and corn—he was born
on a farm. Saddleworth way. He joins
Melbourne Weekly Times as its expert in
that line.
William Joseph Jackson, who used to do
the racing pictures for the Referee, is off to
1 apua with Dr. Campbell Brown’s exploring
party. The. expedition has been fitted out
tor a scientific stocktaking of the territory
which Australia is to govern under the
L e ap;ue of Nations
mandat e. W. H.
Luca s, who is in
Itabaul valuing the
German assets, will
join the expedition
there, to report on
plantations and native
labor. E. It. Stanley,
Papua’s Government
Geologist, is to look at
the mineral resources;
and the hydrographic
side is also to have
attention. A motor-
boat with a draught
of 2ft. is being car-
ried : also a small ice-
making plan t, a
photographic dar k-
ro o m an d wireless.
Australian F i 1 ms.
Ltd., is sending Jack-
son. '
Senator WILLIAM
SENIOR ( S.A. ), the
silent worker.
S. Australia has abolished the title “Super-
intendent of Public Buildings.” The aboli-
tion is appropriate enough, for the office
was created for Owen Smyth neatly 40
years ago, and nobody else has held it. A.
E. Simpson, long his deputy and now his
successor, is to be called Architect-in-Chief.
Owen Smyth himself, who retired to Eng-
land last February, has found one cold
summer enough, and is returning to Adel-
aide.
A heap of money was made by James
Oaten, of Coburg (Vic.), out of a saddlery
contract during the S’African War, and he
managed to hold on to a good deal of it
for 20 years. Dying recently, he left £34,000
to his children and grandchildrenlie had
already made provision for his widow. It
was Melville, then Vic. Minister of Defence,
who “discovered” Oaten, and gave him the
job of equipping the mounted trofeps sent
to remonstrate with Brother Boer,
Hughes has been telling people in Mel-
bourne that he owes Whatever success he
has attained to his early association with
Matthew Arnold. Billy was a pupil teacher
(of something of the kind) in London when
Arnold was an inspector of schools, which
accounts for the “sweetness and light” that
never fails him.
Senior-Detective John Hawe, of N. S.
Wales, has retired, after 39 years of it. As
a youngster in Dublin he helped to round up
the Phoenix Park murderers, and years after-
wards his firm hand and keen brain accom-
plished the downfall of the Auburn murderer,
Digby Grand. During the Prince’s visit he
was one of the bodyguard that protected the
young man from impassioned flappers, im-
portunate parvenus and other dangerous
animals.
' Brigadier-General Charlie Cox has been
in bed at Wagga fN.S.W.) “suffering from
injuries to his right leg, sustained through
stepping off an unprotected platform whilst
lecturing.” It was bound to cornel What
he needs is not a protected platform—in his
fervor he would surmount any barrier —but
a chain leading to his belt from a staple
fixed far enough back to keep him a couple
of paces away from the footlights. Failing
some such device Australia will lose a brave
soldier and an earnest legislator. It is only a
matter of his striking a platform with a
long enough drop.
“0.K.”: Somebody the other day made the
staggering announcement that “the oldest
piper in Australia” had passed his 90th
birthday. There are unfeeling citizens who
declare that no bagpiper ought to be allowed
to reach the age of 90, but perhaps an ex-
ception could be made in the case of old
Moffat McLachlan because he claims to be
a family connection of Lachlan Macquarie,
once Governor of N. S. Wales. But when
the venerable Ballarat resident claims also
to be “grandson of a British captain whose
troops guarded Napoleon after the surrender
at Waterloo” he challenges cross-examination
by a member of the BtrLLETiN’s Melbourne
staff. From myself, in fact. Napoleon didn’t
surrender at Waterloo. He surrendered at
sea to Captain Maitland, of H.M.S. Bellero-
phon, who was father of the Bulletin man’s
aunt.
HIS MISCHIEVOUS ÜBIQUITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘Even when animated by fraternal motives, the
Prime Minister’s mischievous übiquity surrounds his,
colleagues with difficulty.”—lP. A. Watt, sadly.
No longer it’s a mystery,
The quarrel dark and sinister
That changed the course of history
And robbed us of a Minister.
The secret Watt reveals to us
With terseness and asperity,
And, frankly, it appeals to us
As warranting severity.
No Caesar of antiquity
As Hughes had such a hat,
But only Bill’s übiquity
His mischievous übiquity
His damnable übiquity
Caused Watt to whip the cat.
’Twas not the man’s notorious
And freakish volatility,
His arrogance inglorious,
His feigned infallibility ;
Nor yet his lack of pensiveness,
Consistency and fixity,
His boisterous offensiveness,
His wearisome prolixity—
Such innocent obliquity
Watt didn’t mind a bit;
But William M.’s übiquity,
His mischievous übiquity
Appeared a plain iniquity.
So William Alick quit.
N.S.W.
D. EMPSON.


■ ;
Jr
'Jr*
m
m
ws.
ft
N2.P
»>?■>.»: r<;
;p-
->vi- • :
• ••••.
; .•_.iis• :• :iii;•.;./
v/. '•.'■■•;•.•. ■•'••'•.'.' •■' ; . v.v.-.' -viV-:* ; ••■
• •—••■•.• P/.'.v-.v.v.-....;- v •
•■••.•;.•■•.*;.f. .. •;:•• •-
-
••••**• ■ VAV-
■> I I V>
*.".*• •* • • • •
. .* *
“Austral” Tailoring
keeps the wearer satisfied
THERE is merit in tailoring which increases the
number of its wearers year by year. There
is much merit in the tailoring which brings
back its wearers to order again, year after year.
“Austral” Tailoring owes this firm popularity to the
fact that, besides the Style, Manifest Quality and Ample
Value which characterise it, it aims always to express
the personal tastes and wishes of the customer.
“Austral” Sac Suits
To measure: *5/15/-, *6/15/-, *7/15/-,
£*/*/-, *9/9/-, *lO/10/- to £l5/13/-
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns with tape-measure and
forms for self-measurement free on request.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY, SUBURBS AND COUNTRY.
COWING BR° 5 L™
Pioneer Distributers of Australian Goods,
486-490 George Street; 3 to 17 Royal Arcade.
Branch Store at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


British Cashmere Socks
All Wool—the Real Cashmere,
Peapes’ quote British all-pure-wool Cashmere socks at 6/6.
This is remarkably good value. The socks are the genuine
Cashmere—not an admixture. Men who ask for Cashmere
should be careful that they do not get wool and cotton
socks sold to them under the name of the better article.
Peapes’ guarantee these socks to be genuine ALL-WOOL
British Cashmere.
When you buy socks of foreign make you must pay for
heavy exchange and customs’ rates. Choose the British
make—cheaper as well as better.
Black, 6/6 per pair; 37/6 per half-doz.
PEAPES’, PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\
First thing in the Morning.
JUST a spoonful of Sal Hepatica in a glass
of water is certain assurance of perfect
health. Don’t confuse Sal -Hepatica with
fruit salts. Sal Hepatica is a pure saline
preparation, which provides an artificial mineral
water embodying laxative and tonic properties
similar to the well-known natural mineral
waters of Europe.
Doctors recommend Sal Hepatica for bilious-
ness, indigestion, constipation, headache, and
other ailments arising from derangements of
the stomach and liver. Instead of harsh mineral
or vegetable medicines, take Sal Hepatica,
because it’s pure and pleasant. All Chemists
everywhere. Price: 2/-. 4/-. If unobtainable
locally will be Posted Free for same price by.
Bristol Myers Co., 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
HEPATICA
“ Pleasant to take.
L26S
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
ROTATING OUT THE REASON.
WIGGINS: "By Jove, doctor, your fees are
frightfully stiff, aren’t they?”
DOCTOR: “Well, mayhe—but that’s the cost
of living.”
“Ex-Dig.”: The average Digger doesn’t
complain about the men who came late, but
he objects to the latecomer swanking too
greatly over his service. One man who
arrived at the scene of hostilities in time
to enjoy the after-the-Armistice picnic got
all he could from the Repat. and then
blazoned in large letters on his business pre-
mises: “Late A.1.F.” He woke the other
morning to find that some bitter Digger had
painted in “Very” ahead of the “Late.”
“Sixenate”: The spiritualistic revival
started by Conan Doyle is surging through
the suburbs. There is an increasing number
of persons who profess to hold communion
with the other world and call up Aunt Jane
and Uncle Peter to give advice to their mun-
dane relations. Whispefs of the curious
industry are heard on tram and train and
ferry-boat where women assemble. One of
the queerest manifestations of the craze has
come to light in the suburb I affect. Our
two mort fashionable mediums are divorced
persons and their clients get real entertain-
ment for their money. The spirits raised by
Mrs. Blobbs descant bitterly on the amorous
imperfections of Blobbs, and Blobbs’s spooks
refer in opprobrious terms to the moral
obliquity of Mrs. B. The ambition of
scoffers who attend the Blobbs symposia is to
secure a combined stance, and let the rival
spirits have a ding-dong go on the one-to-win
basis. It should be an historic struggle.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The depressing individual who
slashes his throat on the front lawn because
his wife refused to iron his shirts or hard-
boiled the eggs is increasingly prevalent,
In three recent instances the morbid persons
concerned anticipated the act of violence by
threatening, with a certain gloomy joy, to
‘startle Sydney.” ( The grievance of one was
that the children wouldn’t kiss him, and of
another that his wife had refused to allow him
to drown a cat. In each case Sydney refused
to be startled worth tuppence. Not even the
evening papers could work up a “sensation”
about them. One deed of destruction was
preceded by the mild bashing of a persecuted
woman, but even the basher got no gaudier
advertisement than a cold headline: “At-
tempted Assault and Suicide.” It was a
dismal aUti-climax, for doubtless the deceased
had extracted a morbid satisfaction from
prefiguring a horrified communitv gaping at
his corpse and reviling the stony-hearted
female who had driven him to liis doom.
* * * *
A pair of sisters-in-law, one a blonde and
the other a soprano, came to the end of a
strangely futile enterprise the other day in
Melbourne. They had pursued a strenuous
shoplifting career for four years, but were
too bashful to pawn the goods and too
refined to dive into the underworld and get
the address of a “fence.” So at some per-
sonal inconvenience they gave free storage
to about £lOOO worth of odds and ends until
their premises began to bulge. When run
down they “gave the police every assist-
ance,” and an astonished magistrate gave
them 12 months. A youth of about 20 had
a similar career a few months ago in a
■Sydney suburb. He stole largely, but sold
nothing, possibly because he didn’t know
how to go about it. His rented room became
so full that he had to sleep elsewhere. Then
it became so full that he stored surplus
stealings in the back yard, and in time a
constable, leaning his chin in thought on
the fence, recognised a rusty stove and a
broken Venetian blind. Jackdaws suffer
from the same obscure complaint.
* * * *
A practitioner scoffs at recent cables: —
An. Italian paper professed to have interviewed
Professor Vidal, the French scientist, after he had
consulted with the doctors in attendance on the late
King of Greece; and then, on its authority, word
went round that Alexander had been bitten
by a monkey and had rabies. Evidently the
paper’s idea was that you were bitten to-day
and had rabies to-morrow. Actually this
dreadful disease usually takes from six to
eight weeks to incubate, though cases occur-
ring after three or oven six months are not
uncommon. Sir Peter Freyer, of London,
brother of the late Dr. Freyer, of Orange
(N.S.W.), relates a case that occurred after
a lapse of 18 months. Once the disease is
established it is invariably fatal. But sup-
pose the monkey was, suspected of rabies:
then the King’s doctors could have produced
the disease in rabbits in seven days by inocu-
lating them with material from the medulla
oblongata. The patient from
the first day would be well-
dosed with anti-rabic vaccine,
and would be practically safe.
One was not astonished, there-
fore, to learn that Professor
Vidal had pooh-poohed the
idea of rabies, but had ad-
mitted that the King was suf-
tering from an infection. If the monkey-bite theory
be correct the disease was more likely to be septi-
caemia; or it may have been enteric fever.
* * * *
“Cousin John” : The papers have been men-
tioning with amazement that when a few
hundred tons of copper-bars had to be shoved
aboard a Commonwealth steamer at Walla-
roo (S.A.) in a hurry, the lumpers forgot
that it was Saturday and a race-day, disre-
garded the ordinary knock-off time and had
the job finished by midnight. It’s Australia’s
own fault that it is amazed. If it had 500 little
ports like Wallaroo, instead of half-a-dozen
big ones with 19-20 tbs of the lumping popula-
tion gathered at three of them, mostly occupy-
ing comfortless waterside tenements without
back yards or a garden, it wouldn’t be amazed.
Centralisation and Congestion are responsible
fob more of the labor troubles, including go-
slow and wild talk, than all other
things put together. In Wallaroo and
Moonta nine men out of 10 have
some real interest in life, even if it
isxmly an interest in the chapel and Sunday-
wPd°R fh d t le ; don,t nced t 0 listen to some
1. ü ß °i S^ eVlk U i a bit of from the
deadly tedium of life. Besides, when men
can look to a mine or a factory and say “If
that does well, I do well,” they are going to
think twice about shutting it up. You can’t
talk in a large, vague way about the oppres-
sion of some misty monster called Capital
when you live m a small town and know that
the monsters name is Brown or Minahan
A SURE SIGN.
“Do you think they are well off?"
“They must he. They cover their shelves with newspaper."
and are aware that he lives next door to you
and wears patched pants because of the same
H.C.L. that is worrying you.
* * * *
• 20() ’h.p. committee has been appointed
m Adelaide to arrange for the working of
ieter Waite’s outer-suburban estate, JJrr-
brae, which he has given (subject to the
life-interest of himself and wife) half to
the University and half to the State. Gov-
ernor Weigall, the first agricultural expert
S.- Aus. has had for an Excellency, took the
chair at the first meeting, and argued strongly
for a School of Agriculture at the University.
(It already has a Professor of Botany.)
Apropos his Ex. told a story of his recent
explorations up the Murray. Finding some
“rum-looking stock” on a farm, he asked
to. be shown the bull responsible. In reply
to the next and most obvious question, the
owner said: “I don’t know what you’d call
him, but I can breed either a Shorthorn or
a Jersey from him.”
* * * *
“M.D.”: Freudism is making some pro-
gress in Sydney, for in a book-store this
week I heard a fresh young voice say to the
attendant: “I kept that Freud.” I picked
up the volume entitled “An Introduction to
Psycho-Analysis,” marked 255., and dropped
it like a hot potato. It lay open at a
chapter on “The Sexual Life of Man.” Sir
F. Clifford Allbutt, M.D., P.C., the doyen of
British physicians, gave this kind of stuff a
severe gruelling at the recent meeting of
the B.M.A. at Cambridge. He thanked
Heaven he had “never had to practise in
that sty,” and Sir Robert Armstrong-Jones
remarked that Freudism \vas quite dead in
England. I hope it will soon be as dead
as corned-mutton in Australia; for. besides'
being unsavory, it has no medical or scien-
tific value. The Freudians aver that per-
sons who dream about flying, swimming,
climbing, etc., are suffering from sexual re-
pression, or something equally imbecile. The
old theory as tc t the causation of dreams will
do me—unaccustomed lobster, a surfeit of
cucumber, or mixed drinks.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: The control of the Samoa
Times, the weekly news-sheet printed in
Apia, is these days agitating the spoonful of
Labor M’s.P. in Maoriland Parliament.
They accuse the Government of owning the
paper and thereby “gagging the mouthpiece
of the people.” Bill Massey scorns the
imputation and says that, anyhow, there is
nothing to “gag” on the beach at Samoa.
The rag used to be run by the Germans as
the SAMpANiscHE Zeitung, and was printed
in _ English, Samoan and their own horrid
noises. Its editor was James Ah Sue, re-
puted to be the son of Bully Hayes’s right-
hand man and a half-caste Samoan girl.
Jimmy had almond eyes and a Chinese name,
a Samoan skin and a, British heart. A
facile linguist, he spoke English, German,
Chinese and Samoan, with a keen apprecia-
tion of all their delicate shades, and his
pathos, voiced in the soft accents of the
islands, was as exquisitely' colored as his
blasphemy. When the M.L. garrison tdok
charge of the island, Jimmy still held on in
his job until the ’flu called him. The only
other more-or-less Chinese person of attain-
ments in the Pacific is the Rev. Sang T.
Mark, curate to the parish of Nukualofa;
ionga. And if Tongan naturalisation papers
matter he isn’t a Chinese any longer:
“Fag”: Apropos of maimed Diggers whd
carried on. all the instances mentioned by
"tTiinner” (B. 14/10/’2O) and “Footslogger
loo’ (B. 28/10/’2O) are those of officers
who were blind in one eye. But Captain
I)on McLeod, of Westralia, returned to his
company and fought after lie had been de-
prived of an arm. So did Captain Meysey-
llammond, of the same. State; at Hamel, his
last light, he went forward with a cane ill
his sole remaining arm and waved back
those of his warriors Who ventured too near
the barrage. Both these dauntless spirits,
by the way, came from North-West Austra-
lia, where the individual withers and the
race peaks and pines. Mfeysey-Hammond
will never return to this inhospitable region,
but McLeod went back last : year to’’about
the torridest part of it, and took out a
hundred-ton crushing with his one wing.
* * * *
“75” (London) : An ex-Digger who had
attempted on several succeeding Saturdays
(liis only morning off) to obtain an inter-
view with our High (and somewhat mighty)
Commissioner, found on a wall near the
ornate, entrance to the Commonwealth mauso-
leum in the Strand the words “Australia
Will Be There.” He added in chalk: “Ex-
cept on Saturdays.”
AT THE ART SHOW.
“Mummy, I don’t' want to stop here. I
thought you were going to take me to
REAL pictures !”
(Continued on page 18.)
STRONG IN DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, in the course of one of
his Melbourne lectures, described the clothing of
the spirits, which, he insisted, was quite smart,;
but a spirit called to meet an earthly relative must
assume the garb and manner in which she was known
on earth, otherwise she would not be recognised.
Along the meads of Asphodel
The message Stern was blown:
“Ho! Pass the word for Mrs. Bell—
She’s wanted on the ’phone.”
(Her husband of the lower world
Was lending out a call.)
Came Mrs. Bell, with tresses curie*!,
And smartly dressed,
And she was blessed
If she could rest at all.
Full forty years she had been dead,
And in these latter days
The man she owned ere breathing- fled
Had changed his evil ways.
And n6w at seventy-four he came
To trouble his old wife—
In Spiritland a smartish dame
Whose dresses were
More fine than e’er
They’d been in mortal life.
She answered James indignantly
(She wished he’d have more sense) :
Why wilt thou still keep calling me
From my amusements hence?
Why wilt thou have me such a guy?
Observe me, man alive!
Look what an awful flight am I
In bustle fat
And cranky hat
Of eighteen-sev’nty-five!
At this old skirt the cherub hoots;
The body’s a disgrace;
And think of ’lastic-sided boots
In present years of grace!
With hair dressed so I am too proud
To leave the Austral green.
Henceforth no callers are allowed.
So frocked, thou know’st,
A decent ghost
Is not fit to be seen!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON


'‘l accent just u note
here, a phrase tnere,
subduing the voice if I
choose in this one part
to bring out the wist-
ful beauty of the violin
obligato The second
verse 1 play softly,
shading i t gradually
to a faint, caressing
whisper."
JL
Why T bought an
Aeolian^V&cauon
What the Name “Aeolian” Meant to Me.
I have had my Vocalion two months. Yet I spend
more time playing it to-day % than I did when it first
came.
A friend of mine who is thinking of purchasing a
phonograph said to me recently, What made you decide
to buy the Aeolian-Vocalion?”
“The Aeolian name,” I replied, after a moment s
thought, ‘‘always comes to me when I think of music
or musical instruments. Of the score or more of my
friends who have bought from The Pianola Company
not one has been disappointed; not one but believes his
instrument the finest in tone, the most dependable and
durable that he could have found anywhere. So I have
grown up to look upon The Pianola Company as one
of the broadest, fairest, business houses I know of—the
home, it seems to me, of things musically artistic.
‘‘But did you buy a phonograph just because you
approved of the house that sold it?” laughed my friend.
“No,” I replied, “but I would not have dreamed
of buying any phonograph without at least first seeing
the one The Pianola Company made.”
A Feature that Makes My Phonograph
More Interesting To-day Than When
It Arrived.
After I had had my Vocalion for a few days, the
fact dawned on me that it was becoming more and
more fascinating as time went on. With this Graduola
you can really play the music—express it in your own
way. By pulling it out slowly you get the effect or
increasing distance —of a gradual descrescendo, until
you have the softest pianissimo; while by a sharper
movement you can accent any notes you wish. The
Graduola adds so much to the pleasure of owning a
phonograph!
Let me
“Ma Little
show you with this little southern lullaby,
Sunflower, Goodnight, sung by James
Stanley.
I accent just a note here, a phrase there, subduing
the voice if I choose in this one part to bring out the
wistful beauty of the violin obligato. The second verse
I play softly, shading it gradually to a faint, caressing
whisper. The singer could never have recorded it so,
yet how charming the effect, and just the way James
Stanley would doubtless handle his fine baritone if he
w'ere here.
PLAYS ALL MAKES OF DISC RECORDS.
Do not purchase a phonograph without seeing, hearing and PLAYING the Vocalion.
Vocalion Prices are from £9 upward. Models with Graduola, from £3O.
Convenient monthly terms if desired.
SOLE MAKERS:
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY., LTD.
384 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
ALSO
252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
If you cannot come to Pianola Hall to see and hear the Vocation, cut
out this coupon and mail it to us. We ivill send you free of charge
the beautiful new Vocalion catalog.
The Pianola Company, 384 George Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— —Kindly send me your illustrated
catalog of the Aeolian-Vocalion.
Name
Address
B. 351.


MT '
It Pays to Qualify
Otherwise—why did 4000 candidates pre-
sent themselves for Accountancy Examina-
tions last year? These men know what the
qualification will do for them. You cannot
afford to stand aside.
80-PAQE FREE BOOK.
Write or call at nearest address. Enquiry
costs nothing. Read the book and see
exactly what "qualification” means to you - .
Hemingway 8 Robertson,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
“FIRST II
The Accountancy Specialists.
■ , SYDNEY: AUCKLAND:
London Bank Chambers, Union Buildings,
Moore Street. Custom Street.
ST 1897—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
STACa
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
1 .X. ’: There was a death in a Sydney
factory a few weeks ago and the hands threw
in soine silver to buy a wreath. More than
sufficient was subscribed, yet not enough to
do very much with. After discussing the
matter among themselves those who had had
the job in hand decided,to buy a Tatt.’s
ticket with the money and use the prize if
it came along to buy a gravestone. P.S.—
J here isn t going to be a gravestone.
* * *
“Audio”: I have lodgings in the ’Loo.
The perfect tranquillity of my retreat is
shattered formghtly when my landlord’s pay-
day comes round. Last pay it was wilder
than usual. The trouble began with an
impetuous rush and the flight of the boss up
the stairs. Eyes swollen, mouth cut and
bleeding, shirt in tatters, and half his braces
torn away, he made for his room and locked
the door. 1 had taken cover in .my room
when a terrific banging commenced on the
anding. You !” (Bang!) “Ob, you
i (Bang!) “If ye don’t open the
door 111 chop it down !” I went; to the land-
ing and found Mrs. Rumpus just beginning
to do it with a tomahawk. After remon-
stianc-es, I succeeded in getting the weapon
and her promise on oath to stop the row.
hhe went downstairs and kept quiet for just
1U minutes. Then the banking commenced
again. When I arrived the state of the
room would have gladdened the heart of a
cinema “producer.” The fugitive was
doubled up under a dismantled bedstead.
Ivinaly firmly I gained possession of the
axe and suggested a quiet drink together in
the kitchen. In a state of lachrymose con-
lidenee, she told me her story. He had
JUST A REMINDER.
THE TRAVELLER : “ There's no doubt things
will be still dearer . I'm securing
everything Em likely to want for years
ahead!”
THE GIRL: “Oh, are marriage fees going up,
too?”
deceived her five years ago' with a young
tart. “But I’m too sorft,” she .wept. “I
fergive the viper, I did, and ye can see ’ow
e treats me!” Afterwards I brought down
the trembling viper. He sorrowfully con-
templated the sleeping form of his spouse
and said: “She’s not a bad sort when she
ain’t blithered—’as a good ’eart. y’know.
I took a tart to the pitchers once five years
ago, and she ferguv me.”
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Infirmity is
toppling over the most ancient landmark on
the Blue Mountains—the Pilgrim Inn. a
hundred years old, but not licensed this last
half-century. Its trade went when the rail-
way passed up Lapstone Hill, at the top of
which the old pub was situated. Toby Ryan,
an M.L.A. of long ago, who was born on
the flat below the hill, says that the house
was built by one Williams, who was gored
by a bull there. The last licensee was John
Outram Waseoe, whose effects were sold off
by the same Toby Ryan as auctioneer in
1869.
“Fag”: There were some grand Austra-
lians at Blac-kboy (W.A.) camp in fhe
Spring of 1914—among
them the incomparable
Harry Murray; Percy
Black, who ran neck and
neck with Murray in the
race for military distinc-
tions until he left his
body on the Bullecourt
wire; and “Fat” McCar-
thy, afterwards the
“super-V.C.” But they
were all pretty raw in
those days, and the raw-
est of the bunch was Sam
Johnson from Bullabal-
ling. It was Sam’s first
day on guard duty, and
he felt the restraints of
discipline keenly, for beer
was a distant dream and
he wasn’t allowed to
smoke. Moreover, a sour
old sergeant bored him ex-
tremely by coming along
every 10 minutes or so
and asking if he had seen
the colonel. When the
brass-hat loomed up Sam
pointedly ignored him.
“lin your commanding
officah,” said that func-
tionary testily. "Co hon,”
replied Samuel, scorn-
fully, and didn’t offer to
salute. “I tell you I’m
the Colonel,” roared the
exasperated commandant.
A benevolent grin surged
across Samuel’s rugged
features as he recognised
a teuqw-bloke in trouble.
( ripes, ’ he said, "you’re
m- nte ’F’?h;fi C ° the ser catches
* s >in lookm fer you all day!”
Abdul Aswaz”: Professorial humor’ In
a chemistry class at Melbourne Uni. tt * stu-
dent was celebrated for his dulness; but on
one occasion, when the Prof, asked his ex-
I tt n ]Rb n hfj!l UnU , S \ ,aJ , resu lt obtained in
tne lab. he staggered both the Prof, and Ids
fellow students by a lucid and accurate ro-
be snniht- tn aS S i° ple ® sed with himself that
surnriSd ' P,“f ke Ca^4 1 of “You looked
‘‘SnlirlP f lofe f, sol V he remarked , happilr.
iso did Balaam, snapped the Prof. '
Cal’ : The incident of the troopship gamb-
ling on a man’s chance of being rescued from
the sea (B. 14/10/’2O) reminds me. At
Gaza the advancing Diggers were held up
b.v Jacko. and the line was prone waiting
until our artillery beat down the tire from
the lurk mb redoubts. From high above
came the rattle of an aeroplane duel. Round
and round they whirled, each climbing and
seeking to get above the other. Diggers
rolled oyer m their possies and gazed up-
wards at the specks. Soon one machine got
above the other, and the descent commenced,
the lower machine dived and turned, the
upper machine following every movement
and pumping in tire. Nearer' and nearer
they came towards the earth. Then the
lower machine turned sharply, and when
the other tried to follow one wing collapsed
and hung limp. The maimed thing fell,
describing a mad spiral. From those who
thought it was the German came cheers:
cons i dei ’ ed otherwise disdainfully
.yelled Garn !” Bets were promptly called
and quickly taken. Soon the markings could
be distinguished, and the concentric circles
decided the bets. But alas! some of them
wiil never be paid unless there are settling
days over the hill.
“Macquarie Street” on the little things
they leave behind them: —
A surgeon operated on a female patient at the
Adelaide Hospital in 1917 for an abdominal tumor,
arid because another operation had to be performed to
recover a forceps left behind in the abdominal
cavity the S. Aus. Premier recently made acrid
remarks in the Assembly. The public and probably
also the lawyer who is the S. Aus. Premier have
their own ideas about a forceps: generally, I suppose,
the public thinks of the instrument as being the size
and shape of a pair of nut-ci-ackers. And of course
it regards the leaving of such things behind as
outrageous carelessness. They should not be left
behind: there is no doubt of that. But we can only
be certain that such accidents will not happen:
by having proper assistance when an internal opera-
tion necessitating the ligation of bloodvessels is
contemplated. Now it sometimes happens that proper
assistance can’t be got; .and then it is a question
which risk shall be taken—that of ruling out the
operation or of something going wrong in the course
of it.
the, instrument in this case would probably be a
tiny artery forceps called after the great gyirecolo-
gist Spencer Wells. The operating surgeon is as a
rule, too intent on his job to think of counting such
instruments, let alone sponges and cotton-wool swabs
and has to rely upon others for this work. If the
chief assistant is a practitioner, the duty devolves or
FIXED.
“Darling, I've made up my mind to stay at
home,"
"Too late, George- — l've made up my face to
go out."
the operating-room sister, who makes a specialty of
this work ; but if the sister herself is the assistant,
the job has to be done by somebody else, whose
arithmetic may fail at the critical moment. If she
arranges them in dozens and half-dozens, the danger
is likely to be minimised. The instruments at the
big hospitals are looked after by the instrument
attendant, who knows how many tools of the trade
he has laid out,' and will see that the tally is right
at the end of the operation.
Notwithstanding every care, accidents will hap-
pen. In the Adelaide case, the occurrence took place
in wartime, when the operator had the assistance of
a probationer only; so there was nothing in the
affair to be staggered at. It is simply lack of
knowledge and failure to consider the circumstances
that makes it seem so.
“Sixenate”: A unique matrimonial en-
tanglement concerns a man whose Christian
name is Bill. Bill married a woman who
had divorced a waster on the ground of de-
sertion. Bill and Mrs. Bill had been one
for years when a later wife of Mrs. Bill’s
first husband arrived:
she had left her graceless
spouse, and Bill’s wife, a
benevolent creature, in-
sisted upon giving her
shelter. The lady became
established in the home,
and,. Bill’s wife dying,
continued to manage it.
Then she discovered that
her husband had • been
killed in a brawl, and
persuading Bill that their
domestic arrangements
were apt to'set slander-
ous tongues wagging,
bore that good-natured
customer off to the
clergyman. I met Bill
shortly after. He intro-
duced the lady with a
beaming smile as. “My wife, by my wife’s
first husband.
“Mount Wellington": The Speck's Medi-
cal Council (mostly B.M.A. doctors) the
other day resolved to appeal to the High
Court against Chief Justice Nicholls’s
refusal to authorise the taking of evidence
by commission in the United States and else-
where as to the quality of Hobart Hospital-
suigeon Ratten s diploma. The decision was
arrived at despite a plain intimation from
i remier .L/ee that the Government would not
hnance any such appeal, so it is presumed
x>t,r Councillors (or perhaps the
8.M.A.) are prepared to pay the costs out
of then 1 own pockets. Premier Lee has now
countered by introducing a bill to so amend
. e Medical Act that proceedings for the
invalidation of a doctor’s registration
allegedly wrongly obtained must be taken
within seven years. As Dr. Ratten was
registered in Tasmania in 11X17. and as no-
body questioned his diploma until 1916,
when he migered the B.M.A. by assisting the
Government to run the Hobart General Hos-
PMal without B.M.A. assistance, the passage
or the amending Rill may perhaps settle a
dispute which has been raging for nearly
tour years, and finally block the pursuit of
Ratten by his implacable brethren of the
doctors’ union. The proposal is that
No proceedings shall he taken against any medical
practitioner for any offence against this Act unless
such offence has been committed within the last
seven years.
Rut to find out whether this clause is
water-tight may yet provide a job for a
iew lawyers: for it happens that proceed-
ings have already been “taken” against
Ratten, and the Medical Council's proposal
to appeal is merely a new chapter of an
old story.
* ' * . * *
“Sydney Summers”: A speaker at the
reunion of Sydney Surf Life Savers com-
plained that not one per cent, of rescued per-
sons thanked those 1 who yanked them out of
the turbulent ocean. It certainly seems over
the odds, but, generally speaking, the half-
drowned individual doesn’t feel in a mood
to be grateful to anyone. A resentful woman
at Coogee rebuked her rescuer (it happened to
be me) because I had knocked off her bathing-
cap and let the salt water get at her hair.
A romantic girl at Manly rapturously kissed
her preserver—and lost her temper because her
kisses were'not appreciated. I know a stout
citizen who won’t go near Bondi any more
because he was rescued there last year. He
is afraid of meeting his rescuers because he
doesn’t know whether they would expect to
be. tipped or not, and he hasn’t sent the
guinea he meant to send to the Life Saving
Club because it might be accepted as the
value he places upon his life. Verily, they
run in all shapes.
* * * *
“JEnid H.”: The hoarding-house I adorn
meets a new charlady about once a fort-
night. My landlady stopped me in the hall
the other day and uttered a solemn warning.
I am .expecting a new charwoman to-day,
so before you go out you had better lock up
anything valuable. As far as I know she is
quite honest, but one cannot be too careful
of strangers.” Having deftly concealed my
diamonds under a thimble, I left for town.
On my return I found the new importation
on the stairs doing something very compli-
cated with a collection of buckets and
brooms. She had a large black bag hung
at her waist, and it seemed to be doing all
it could to make things even more compli-
cated for her. .1 passed the time of duv, and
asked how she was getting along. “Middlin’,
thanks, miss—jus’ middlin’. I ain’t in love
with new places th’ first day, an’ this”—
patting the black bag peevishly—“do get in
me road so. Still it can’t be ’elped! I
don t like to leave it off of me. ’Course I
ain’t sayin’ . th’ people ’ere ain’t all right,
but you can t be too careful when you goes
among strangers in strange ’ouses!” I
guessed honors were' even, and I fed her
tea and toast on the strength of it.
AN EASY SOLUTION OF THE DIFFI-
CULTY.
THE LADY PORTRAIT-PAINTER: “.Is you can-
not sit, how can you expect me to paint
your portrait from these two photo-
graphs, madam, when one is dated 1890
and the other this year?"
HER SUBJECT: "Why, copy the head from
the 1890 one and take the gown from
the other."
THE COMING OF SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know that Summer’s very near,
For all about the bush I hear
A breathing, pulsing ecstasy
That seems to flutter over me
A gentle air of gold and green,
Like bee-tinje in a honey-bean.
But still I know that Summer’s near;
And soon with lucid eyes and clear
On every hill her elves I’ll greet,
Whose little freckled fingers beat
A leafy drum of sleepy fire
That tunes my soul to old desire.
Ah! as I simmer in the air N
Of Summer’s coming witchery,
In drowsy indolence I dream
How I shall clasp her by some stream,
And in her brown arms filled with play
Like sunburnt butter melt away!
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.


:)
/
t
1 '
'
i
*■
\
.
'%' -
m
V*
v- "■ ■'■lip
V
n if u
&
'V*
m
Vf
euJs
Mo&nitt
m
y-
■e
~£i-
r 1
DEWARS
In the case of Whisky the
General Verdict is in favour
of Dewar’s on three counts,
MELLOWNESS —PURITY
RELIABILITY
Mellowness. That alluring perfection
of flavour that begets the happy smile of
appreciation. Dewar’s never robs one of
pleasure—be the anticipation never so great.
Its charm of flavour is elusive and exclusive
—soft, rich and yet crisp.
Purity. The safeguard df health and the
rock on which the reputation of Dewar’s
stands. It is this domination of Purity in
all the stages of preparation that makes
Dewar's the Aristocrat of Whiskies whose
companionship is ever a source of unceasing
delight and happiness.
Reliability is the crowning virtue of
Dewar’s. All its merits in Distillation,
Blending, Purity, Age and Flavour contribute
to this one great end; —that no matter when
or where you buy Dewar’s you can, without
any fear of disillusionment, rely on an unvary-
ing measure of rarest pleasure that makes
Dewar’s a perfect treasure.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWOMf/
Jf-EXTRA HIGH GRADrJf
Drubbed
3] R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney Agents.
THe Care of
tHe >SKin.
Do you know that a glowing, smooth,
active skin is largely dependent upon a
pure antiseptic soap ? Your skin can have
the glorious color of youth. You can
make it smooth and beautiful by using
Cig'molliene
Cream soap.
Blemishes on delicate skin, visible signs
of neglect, too frequently noticed after
effects from sunburn, etc., will be miti-
gated and the complexion improved imme-
diately you commence its beneficial use?
Begin at once to give your skin the
tender, regular care it should receive
and make it clear and lovely. Sold in
ova tablets at 1/- each. At all chemists,
or from ’
W. H. MALYON & SON,
Manufacturing Chemists,
Sturt Street, Ballarat, Victoria.
A Signal Success
e
King George IV
** WlHlSffif
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
JUST A SNACK.
“Don't be silly. No shark will touch you
while I am with you."
“B-but it's not dinner-time yet, auntie, an'
he might only just leant his eleven
o'clock lunch."
r.J.M. : F.J. (B. 7/10/’2O) wants a
cure for his horse that rears and falls backwards.
Well, get a good riding-whip, and when he starts
to go np lean forward on his neck, slack the reins,
and hit him hard behind the saddle. Having his
ead free he will bound forward, and after a few
times he will drop the game. Pulling on a horse’s
mouth when he rears is the worst thing to do. I
have never seen a horse fall back if his reins were
slacked as he was going up, but I have seen dozens
go over through riders pulling on their mouths.
<1 * * *
“Leo Lear”: These people who find frogs,
elephants and other wild fowl embedded in solid
rock and sound timber without any appearance of
crack, tunnel or bore-hole connecting with the surface
of things had better look for a more feasible explana-
tion than that the animals have been there since
uenesis i 1. In bursting open rocks and trees the
worker does not observe what small passages or
cracks he is destroying in the operation, and when he
strikes on the entombed bug the insect’s presence is
a mystery. Most probably there has been a small
passage through which the yahoo has entered to a
ca\i y at an early stage of his existence, and grown
there a prisoner. Food supply is, I admit, a pro-
blem; but, then, it is a problem in any case.
“Mypharry”: How can a hard-up cocky
who can grow tobacco fix up the leaf so that a pass-
able smoke will result? A long time ago when I
was young I used to get some grand tobacco from
deep-sea sailors at various ports in the Old Dart.
They told me that they manufactured it themselves
from leaf-tobacco issued aboard ship or bought ashore.
The Maoris fix up their own smokes, too, but the
pong of their weed would make a skunk envious.
* * * * *
“E.G.H.”: I don’t think cannibalism was
general among ; our black brothers. They are not
devojd of sentiment, and sentiment of the right
sort; I have known one to cry bitterly at the sight
of a sheep that had been torn by dingoes. The only
certain case ot cannibalism that has come under
my notice was at Durrundur, 60 miles N.-W. of
Brisbane, in the year '63. A mob of some 200
had mustered there on the way to the bunya harvest.
A piccaninny had been accidentally killed by a
blackfellow, and judging by the noise made I think
the grief of the howlers was sincere. But some of
the old gins who were on the verge of starvation
could not miss the chance of a square meal, and
it was a queer and creepy thing to' see them gnawing
the bones with tears rolling down their cheeks;
they even stopped now and then to let out a yell.
I was a lad at the time, but the scene has stuck
in my memory ever since.
* * » *
“Lofty”: Here’s another count that few
stockmen could beat. I had lifted 800 head of
cows, and was travelling on a route seldom used by
stock coming inside. Three hundred head were sold,
reducing my mob to 500 ; but my permit still showed
800 when I struck Mt. Murphy township. I produced
my permit to the local john. “Eight hundred—what
a lqt of cows!” said he. “Do you want to count
them ?” I inquired. “Och, shure, and I must count
them,” he replied. I strung the cattle past him on
the ilngle of a fence. He sat on his horse marking
time with his finger for every beast and roaring
“Wan —two—three,” etc. He stopped shouting the
numbers at 30, but continued ticking off the mob
with his fingers. When the mob had gone past him,
“That’s right,” said he—“eight hundred.”
* * * *
“F.Ii.R.”: When ready to handle a young
colt, I start (generally towards the end of the winter)
by giving him a little feed out of a nosebag. I
prefer bran, which they all like. After gaining his
confidence, I put the strap over one ear—it either
falls off or is easy to remove. Later on he feeds
quite contentedly with the strap over both ears, and
allows me to take it off and rub him down. I next
slip the halter over the nosebag, substituting a
string for the strap, tighten the halter up, cut the
string and hold him. Compared with poking or
throwing a rope round his neck and choking him,
this method is humane and does not frighten him.
From that out I don’t pamper, but ride the young-
ster.
* * . * .
“Hoof and Horn”: Tell us of a good and
lasting dressing to apply around the eyes of stud
cattle to relieve ’em of the bally fly-pest.
“T. Bower”: “Sunnybank” (B. 14/10/’2O)
was correct when he wrote of the caustic action of
pawpaw juice. I have frequently seen warts
disappear after a few applications. The milky
juice contains an active principle or enzime
called papain, which is very similar in action
to pepsin. Hence meat wrapped in pawpaw
leaves or painted with the milk is partly
digested by the enzime and made tender.
Papain is prepared by tapping the green fruit
and collecting the sticky milk, which js then
quickly dried at a low temperature, so that
the individual cells are ruptured. The enzime
thus set free is extracted with water and
purified. Both it and the ripe fruit are used
medicinally in indigestion, dyspepsia and
filaria, and as an application to warts, skin
growths, tumors and even cancer. The late
b>r. T. P. Lucas, of Brisbane, prescribed it
in many cases with excellent results.
* * * „
“Rooinek”: “Doxite” (B. 30/9/’2O) writes
about shooting deer through the kidneys. Let me
heap upon “Doxite” the scorn that all deer-stalkers
feel for the Cockney sportsman who “haunches” a
deer, that is, shoots it in the hindquarter. A deer
so hit almost invariably gets away and dies in
misery afterwards. I have shot hundreds of deer,
and, like every experienced shooter, always try to
get just behind the shoulder. The head shot is a
good clean kill, but it is too difficult when deer are
running in timbered country. If a deer is facing
you, or coming straight at you, the chest shot drops
him in his tracks every time. The essential thing
is to have a rifle powerful enough to roll a deer
over, not merely to drill a hole in it. Anyhow, no
self-respecting sportsman shoots does or fawns.' A
man ought to be gaoled for it. There is another
class of ruinous blighter who skites about the long
shots he makes at deer. Gaol is the place for him,
too. A decent man gets close enough to make sure
of a fatal shot.
*** . *
“Nalla Dooh”: One night when Paddy
Cahill was manager of Delamere Downs (N.T.) a
great shrieking arose in the blacks’ camp. Inquiries
elicited the information that Rosie was “big pheller
sick.” Paddy Cahill prescribed two packets of
Epsom’s. Next morning Old Sam approached.
“What name that-pheller medicine, Paddy?” “Good
pheller,” replied Paddy. “He good pheller all right,”
returned Sam. “Jennie bin givit Rosie; then Rosie
gettem half-caste piccaninny.”
Mrs. Lance Rawson’s testimony:—
, In , 1880 1 h eard the story of George Walker from
two blacks who, as boys, had participated in the
, st ', t*nd that same year I witnessed the murder
oi a half-caste girl whose body we were never able
to find. The blacks admitted to us later that it had
been towed over to Fraser’s Island and eaten there.
A lew weeks after that murder I saw one of the
PROOF.
JONES: "Hullo, jigger, how do you feel now?”
DIGGER: "Fine. Our doctor adzised me to drink ale for my nerves, so I got a barred
of it."
JONES: "And do you feel stronger?"
DIGGER: "My outh! When the barrel ea me I couldn't more it. Now I can roll it
all round the room."
blacks kill a half-caste baby eight months old by
dashing its head against a tree. The blacks next
day told us that the old women had roasted and eaten it
that morning. Mr. Rawson and I raked the ashes
and recovered some of the bones. The Fraser Island
blacks were notorious cannibals as late as 1882 to
my knowledge. On one occasion when a young man
who had been working with the oyster boats was
drowned, the blacks recovered the body, towed it to
Bonora, and that night had a big feast.
* * *
“P.II.”: Why do bush people dress for
Sundays? Sometimes it’s because they want to
wash the duds they wear through the week; but
more often it’s for the same reason that the cityite
dons old clothes on Sunday and potters round the
garden—to see himself in another light, as it were,
and get fid ot the ghost of drudgery which hangs
about the garb of daily toil.
THE PURR AND THE CLAW.
“Frank says he couldn't imagine anyone
more beautiful than I am. Isn’t he a
silly?”
Oh, I wouldn't say silly—just a little weak
in imagination.”
I .L. . J?he pandanus, or screw-palm, runs
the coeoanut-palm close as the most useful Pacific
Island tree. Its long, slender leaves are used for
parting haskets, mats, girdles, etc.; when soaked,
and the outer covering washed off, it supplies a
pure white, soft and very strong fibre of which the
natives weave a fabric. The fruit, though whites
can t stomach it, forms the staple food of the Mar-
shaU and Kingsmill islanders. It is rich in saccharine,
and the filbert-like kernel is both wholesome and
nutritious, and decidedly pleasant to the taste. The
kernels also contain an excellent oil which the
islanders use. They manufacture “rum” from the
green fruit, and get most gloriously drunk on it,
too. The trees grow from 30 to 40 feet high,
and from the wart-like excrescences on the otherwise
smooth branches they drop long, smooth, grey
roots, which on reaching the earth take firm hold,
and grow to the thickness of a man’s arm or there-
abouts. These roots form stays which hold the
tree in position against the wildest gale. They
contain a wonderfully tough and white fibre which
ls „ for rope-making. The outer bark is rotted
off by steeping in sea water; the roots are then
flogged against the earth or smooth rocks till the
fibre is free from the pulp. When tiles# roots are
strong enough to nourish the tree the main trunk
or stem dries off, leaving a hollow tube as hard
and white as ivory, with an inside diameter of
some four to five inches. The dry stem takes an
excellent polish and is used for ornaments, carved
and otherwise. The earth-roots also contain a fibre
which is obtained and used in the same manner,
though it is coarser than the aerial roots. The leaves
are employed for thatching the native houses, and
for interlacing into the walls. In exposed parts of
the beaches the natives erect long windbreaks, both
of growing tiees and of screens of interwoven leaves,
which protect their houses from the wind-driven
sand.
* * * *
“E.T.”: Was surprised to see what at
first glance looked like a small stone in mid-air. On
examination it proved to be suspended by two long
threads from a spider’s web, which was constructed
between the branches of two trees, one each side of
the garden-path. The web was very large, and the
stone was evidently slung there to keep the web in
its proper position. How the insect hauled the
pellet from the ground I don’t know and can’t guess.
.** * *
‘Pick’: When but half-gipwn my mate
Bob’s Irish setter, Brough, received the father of a
mauling from dingoes that he wanted to play chaneys
with near our camp on Mt. Dromedary. Years
after, as we crossed the Punkalla-road, Brough sud-
denly sniffed the air suspiciously, l and, with terrified
howls faded homeward, unmindful of our calls. Later
on we learned that hours previously a wallaby-
hunter had passed along the track with a nest of
dingo-puplets in his bags.
(Continued on page 22.)
STRIPPIN’ TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Struth ! it’s bonz to be the skipper of a full-rigged
racin’ stripper
Sailin’ proudly through a sea of wavin’ wheat,
When you cock your ear to listen as the grain like
spray goes hissin’
An’ your horses nearly pull you off your seat.
While the box is quickly fillin’ you forget the weary
tillin’, >
Ah’ the frosts an’ droughts that made you lose your
sleep.
You’re rewarded for your trouble as you pull out
through the stubble
To unload another bumper on the heap.
Off again!.with one foot steerin’, both hands jugglin’
with the gearin',
Cranks an’ levers, choke an’ reins an’ flies an’
whip,
Tellin’ - off your team an’ swearin’, lookin’ out for
snags and starin’
At the wheat line an’ the heads you’ve got to strip.
Yeh! but make no bloomin’ error, strippin’ some-
times is a terror
. J ' igger ’ s ' crorik an ’ c 0& begin to wear.
Teams that jib and mix their traces; slippin’ belts
an’ broken laces,
Heated bearin’s—cripes 1 they drive you to
despair 1
Never mind! There comes an’ endin’ to the longest
job o' mendin'
An’ you hum along an’ never miss a grain
Then you feel as fit’s a fiddle till the belt around
your middle
Slips an’ shows it’s time for tucker mighty plain.
When the sun lobs in the west is the time to give it
best,
T i r F j 5° U u team ? / 0r the ni e h t an’ ’ave your tea;
Tired an hungry but content that the day has been
well spent—
Yes! the strippin’ game will just about do me.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.'
STRIPPER.


The Best Australian Authors
are represented in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
Over 100 novels to select from.
ALL ONE PRICE.
Is. 3d. each. Is. 41d. Posted.
LATEST SUCCESSES:
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL,”
by Jack North.
“QUEEN VAITI
by Beatrice Grimshaw.
‘THE SAVAGERY of MARGARET NESTOR,”
by Jack McLaren.
Steele Rudd’s Selection Novels.
Arthur Wright’s Popular Sporting Stories.
A Few Novels by other well-known Australian Authors:
RANDOLPH BEDFORD:
“SILVER STAR.”
“BILLY PAGAN.”
“ALADDIN AND THE BOSS
COCKIE.”
A. G. STEPHENS:
“BILL’S IDEES.”
AMBROSE PRATT:
“DAN KELLY—OUTLAW.”
“THREE YEARS WITH
THUNDERBOLT.”
“THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN
RANGE.”
E. J. BRADY:
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE.”
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George St„
SYDNEY.
m
\nn
Itlll
kllUl
C
m
“THREE’S COMPANY”
—when the third is a full plate of
REX HAM PATE or
REX VEAL & TONGUE PATE
sandwiches. These delectable sandwich spreads
are all pure meat with just enough seasoning to
appeal to your taste.
Order a tin of each to-day. Try them for afternoon
teas, suppers, etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
. FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of Rex Pure Food Products
Curers of Rex Hams and Bacon
12993
Styled to the Minute.
Distinctive Patterns.
LEVIATHAN
Write for Patterns
To-day.
The
QUALITY
SUIT
99
£7|ls|-
Made to Order.
A smartly cut and tailored ISavy or ALL-
WOOL Tweed Leviathan Suit neces-
sity. Greater confidence in yourselt
is assured when well dressed. Ihe
“Quality” Suit is recognised throughout
the Commonwealth for style and distinc-
tive cut.
Soldiers’ Own Material.
Suit lengths obtained from the Defence
Department the Leviathan are pre-
pared to cut and tailor m similar
style to the “Quality” Suit, supply all
trimmings, linings and
buttons. Net Price ..
£4/10/-
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Cr. Swanston
Pty. and Bourke Sts.
Ltd. MELBOURNE.
THOMPSON S CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telephones:
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
engineering works,
Gastlemaine, Victoria.
(BRANCH WORKS AT JVILLIAMSTOWN.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
quick-revolution engines
in
AUSTRALIA,
highest efficiencies guaranteed.
Q
itT-F
flmSm&l. ■*%
• - *-
1
»> -m*'-Z.
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating Set.
ENGINES SUPPLIED FOR ANY PURPOSE.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
E. Hints & Co. Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. .Ltd
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Etd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd
PERTH:
own & Dureau Etd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Peekes, Fenchnrch Street.


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
C-A'O
0
<
u
C-A-C- |
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
cwc
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading hardware houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central ipos
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
C-A-C-
Oj
>
0
C-A-C-
-....
n
>
n
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
'■ H*
3
£
a
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining: wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
: Wild ducks are wary, yet I’ve
seen a blackfellow outwit them. He hollowed out
sonic pumpkins and covered them with weeds. These
he liberated on a fresh-water lagOon, much duck-
frequented. The ducks .gave the floats a wide berth
until familiarity bred contempt. Then the nifc, cut-
ting eyelets, fixed on a similar pumpkin helmet,
and with a tightlv-drawn cord round his waist slipped
into the water, 300 yards from his quarry. Drifting
without a ripple, he got among the unsuspecting
birds. Grabbed by the legs a duck went under,
unheeded by its feeding cobbers. Binghi prisoned
its head beneath the cord. Ten fat black ducks
rewarded his patient efforts.
“Wander” : Two mobs were cauined close
together. Our cook, a champion liar, was telling the
other cook about a bottle-tree near Albany Downs
from which he procured water for the camp and 20
horses. ‘ Yes, ’ said the other cook, “I know it well.
We watered our plant there going out, and coming
back I threw in my fishing-line and caught a 101 b.
cod.”
* * * *
"T,C.,T.”: “Wessell’s” sporting abo. (B.
2/9/’2O) recalls an, experience 1 had in White Cliffs
(A.S.W.) in 1901. A tribe of blacks had come in
to get their annual grant of Government blankets.
Two of the gins passed my lodgings—one short and
fat, the other very tall and thin ; but there was no
noticeable difference between them in the matter
of dirt and ugliness. I followed them for a camera
“snap.” They ran. I followed, and at last cornered
them. “Mine gibbet sixpence take your picture,
Jinnie, 1 tried; and then I got the shock of my
young life. With all the dignity of a duchess the
tall one answered: “If you insist, I’m afraid we
can t prevent it. But surely your instincts as a
gentleman should protect us.” Exit me! Later in
the day 1 heard the piano at Richardson’s pub played
better than I could play it (I was the local “pro-
fessor of music”), and on forcing my way through
a crowd that stood around I found the performer
was my tall abo. lady-friend. I heard her history
later. She had been adopted when a baby by an old
station-owner and his wife, and had been taught
music, painting and languages (she spoke French
as fluently as English). Then the blood called—
BEDTIME.
Well, Matilda, what about turnin’ in?”
she cleared out with the Poolamacca blacks and
never returned. By the way, my eamera had a
violent end. I snapped three Afghan or alleged Afghan
camel-drivers without permission, of course. They
eaught me in the act anti kicked the stuffing out of
my kodak. One explained afterwards: “Me religion
man, mister.”
“Coringa”: “Yamim’s” assertion (B.
7/10/’2O) that ticks keep down the natural increase of
marsupials will come as a surprise to most bushmen.
I inhabited tick-infested Queensland scrubs for years,
where both scrub- and rock-wallabies were plentiful,
and never saw one tick-sick hopper. It is generally
accepted that the animals have long since become
THE ASS WHO DIDN’T KNOW WHEN TO COME LAST.
"Veil, vat did you give your jockey for vinning?”
“Three cheers-—and then sacked the fool.”
immune to the poison of ticks; and it’s a reasonable
assumption, too, considering that one generation
only suffices to produce immunity in cattle from the
deadly virus of the red-water cattle tick. Yet
cattle brought from clean country will go down
en masse ■ alongside them. The immunity is either
born in them or acquired in early calfhood. It
isn’t safe to take a tame dog into some of the
Queensland scrubs without running a small-tootb
comb over him afterwards? yet dingoes breed and
flourish in the same scrubs because nature has
rendered them immune in the same way. “Yar-
rum” is right in saying ticks are partial to snakes,
but there’s no proof that the snakes die as a result.
I’ve killed crawlers with ticks fastened between
almost every scale in all stages of engorgement; yet
those reptiles were among the liveliest I’ve tackled.
The same applies to gohannas. The craftiest and fleet-
est old egg- and chicken-b.urglaiy I ever knew sup-
ported as many ticks as Australia does politicians,
and still looked pleasant.
* * * *
“512”: Tell “F.J.” (B. 7/10/’2O) to fill
a long-necked thin glass bottle with water, and next
time his prad rears, crack him between the ears hard
enough to break the bottle. Pie won’t rear agaip.
But wear a leather glove. I didn’t.
“J. 8.0.”: Years ago I plied an axe for
the good of my soul. On lowering a 200f't. red-gum,
right on the topmost dry limb, in a hollow 3ft.
long by only a few inches wide, we found three
carpet snakes about 7ft. long. It was winter, and
they were quite rigid ; it took my mate and I all
we could do to pull them out. I presume they
would have stayed coiled up together for warmth
in their high perch until Spring.
* , * * *
“Ino”: “O. K. Eden” (B. 16/9/’2O) wants
to know why the laughing-jackass was called kooka-
burra. It is a corruption of the Bogan blacks’ nafne
for him—Googooburra.
* * _ * »
“Te Pana”: Distance was evidently no
obstacle to Hori when he went searching for timber
suitable for a dugput. It was the custom to roughly
model the canoes in the bush and wait for a flood
to take them down the nearest creek to deep water.
I dropped across a relic in a northern bush 100 miles
from the Wairoa. The moss-grown canoe had been
partly hollowed from a giant totara-tree and left
unfinished, a neighboring tribe explaining that some
misfortune befell the toilers, with a result that
the craft was declared tapu. The lugger when com-
pleted would have held a crew of 80 men, and I’m
backing Hori to grind his axe one of these days and
finish the job. Tapu won’t keep him away, anyhow.
are quite dead. The rest of the tree is vigorous,
it has numerous large limbs growing straight up
from the bole. When its supply of nourishment was
cut off from its natural course, it evidently threw
out feeders from the other end and got a supply,
with the above result. It makes a favorite camping-
place in summer.
“McNorth”: Papuan Brown Brother’s
method of removing superfluous hair is not to be
recommended without the use of anaesthetics. When
razors or other weapons sharp enough to shave with
are not available, our colored relative strips a few
strands off the edge of a piece of split bamboo and
twists them together so as to leave a small loop in
the centre. The loop he places over the offending
hair and twists till the growth is
pulled out. Then its neighbor is
operated on. In some places shaving
is done with a bamboo knife. A flat
piece of bamboo is split dowm on one
side till an edge of sorts is obtained,
and the hairs are amputated. No soap
is used. Broken glass is used at times.
At a trading-station near the western
end of the Gulf of Papua the boss
made quite a .good thing out of sell-
ing empty bottles for this purpose.
The natives broke the glass again
and again till a sufficiently sharp edge
was obtained. When the edge dulled,
the glass was broken some more. This
w r as a painful method of shaving, too.
But it was more favored in that
region than any other, and a few
days after the arrival of the periodi-
cal store-vessel there was always a demand for empty
bottles. There was always a supply of empty bottles
a few days after the arrival of the store-vessel.
Allan Hay”: I had delivered cattle and
was riding back in the moonlight. My pony was a
demon to walk. I had not seen his equal for years.
We had covered some miles on the homeward journey
when I caught the click of shoes perhaps a quarter-
mile behind me. The stranger rode at a walking
pace, and rapidly overhauled me. Only one horse
I’d ever met could do this, and I had sold him 20
years ago. He was old Satan, and aged about 20
then, so the chances were decidedly against his being
still in the picture. The stranger and I rode abreast
exchanging abridged remarks every half-mile or so.
I commented favorably on his horse’s pace. He
admitted that the old moke could “toe it.” I rode
round to the stranger’s offside. Satan had a white
patch on the offside ; the stranger’s horse had a similar
patch. Another couple of miles, and the stranger
Rive^sleigh”: On a property on the
Lachlan (IN.S.W.) there is a red-gum about three feet
in diameter that must have fallen years ago (I
have known it for six). It is resting on the butt
and the other end is buried in the soil. The trunk
is from six to 18 inches off the ground. Both butt
and trunk are charred for several feet along and
S ered information that he was going to the
that the horse > saddle and bridle could be
T , g t for a flver - " We dismounted for inspection.
® addle was ordinary, the bridle was plaited
g eeninde. I wanted a plaited greenhide bridle more
„. n a d °2 ever wanted a bone. The stranger was
somg as far as the Half-way Hotel, and I agreed to
take delivery there. At the pub something evidently
«as afoot half the countrywide being collected oil
the verandah and in the bar. The stranger, fearing
ten his flyer, suggested the back entrance through the
garden. I wrote him a cheque in the kitchen and
lett. The stranger’s horse practically towed me
home. I removed the saddle from the new purchase
and proceeded to slip the bridle from his head,
remembering too late one of Satan’s playful habits,
the stranger’s horse, feeling my hand about his ears,
held Ins breath, jumped forward on to my feet and
tossed the plaited greenhide bridle into the next
paddock. I found it next morning. I was convinced
that Satan was once more mine, though his 40 years
called for careful thought. A week later I ' rode
ini to town. 1 passed the. pub early, and not until
some miles further did I see anyone astir. They
were ploughing and coming towards the road. See-
ing me they quickened their pace and with much
flapping of rope-reins reached the end of their
furrow as soon as 1 was abreast. They hailed me
and asked where I had got the horse. I told them.
1 hen they explained to me the moonlight gathering
at the pub. The stranger’s horse had been raffled
and the crowd had collected to witness the draw ; but
the stranger had decamped with the raffle proceeds—
plm my fiver. Mv ride into town was a series of
interruptions. I did not know the legal position,
but argued ffhat since 1 had contributed more than
any one of the other claimants the reptile was
mine, prima facie or any other old way they liked to
mention. '
<• s *• * * «
( arisbrook ’: I don’t know Knibbs’s esti-
mate of tile abo. population of Australia; but I
know the North and the Nor'-West, and this is my
estimate'. Taking a line from Derby (King’s Sound)
up the Fitzroy River to Fitaroy crossing, thence
to Hall’s Creek, thence to Wyadham (Cambridge
Cult), thence back along the coast to starting-point,
inside tins enclosure? I estimate the number of nig-
gers at 50,000, thousands of whom have never yet
seen a .white man.*' City blokes periodically write to
the dailies about the aborigines dying out in a few
years. They have nothing to fear. In that part of
the country the nigger will be in his mountain fast-
ness, in his primitive state, holding his nightly cor-
roboree, many years after “Humanity,” “Lover of
the Native,” “Save the Aborigine?” and their child-
ren’s children have passed in their checks. That
part of the country is the wildest and roughest in
Australia. By the way, one “explorer” claims to
have twice traversed the country from Wyndham
to Derby, skirting the coast. I’ll wager my two
packhorses and packsaddles and two riding-horses
and saddle: against his bicycle that he has never
travelled 20 miles along that route. A thousand
pounds reward offered by the Westralian Govern-
ment to the discoverer of a stock-route from Wynd-
ham to Derby has gone begging for very many years.
* * * ‘ *
“Fred T. B.“: The Westralian blacks —
especially those in the eastern goldfields—are very
proficient with the spear. The boys learn to use it
at an early age; in fact, they make a game of it.
I have seen a dozen Edjudina boys., of from about
8 to 14 throwing toy weapons at each other
and deriving great amusement, from the caper. 'What
struck me most was their remarkable eyesight and
judgment of flight. In no instance did I see a
boy jump out of the road of an oncoming spear,
as a white boy would have done. Instead, he would
bend on one side that part of his anatomy that was
threatened, and the spear flew harmlessly past.
Aet the course of a spear thrown towards you is
UNCLE MUDDY GULLY GIVES his
CITY NIECE A DAY IN TOWN.
U.M. : “A cup uv corfee an’ one child's
cocktail!”
very difficult to follow. After leaving' the womerah,
or throwing-stick, it flies low for some distance, then
rises gradually and gracefully, and finally falls
again to the first altitude. When it is in this part
of its flight it should meet its object. In the early
days of the goldfields Earliston blacks made war on
the Edjudina tribe. One of the latter threw his
spear at an enemy with some success and much
satisfaction. He then knelt down behind a low bush,
but was almost instantly enfiladed by ,an Earliston
black. The spear passed through the fleshy part of
his right arm, through the upper part of his body,
and entered the fleshy part of his left arm. He was
thus trussed like a turkey.
DISPUTING THE DECISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. J. J. Tobias, of America, although 71 years
of age, states that he has found the fountain of
youth through the Voronoff system of gland-trans-
plantation. ‘I was ill, old and played out,’ he told
an interviewer, ‘but the operation has revivified me.’ ”
From tree to tree the infant monkey bounds;
He does not gibber angrily or frown
As in nis ears a frigid voice- resounds,
The voice of Science, calling out: “Come down!”
Caged behind bars, he leaves his native land,
But, feeling still that all is for the best,
Takes nuts and such-like with a friendly hand,
And greets his captors with engaging zest.
The day arrives when on a marble slab
He writhes and out of little eyes that burn
Watches the knife whose swift and skilful stab
At ill send him to that bourne whence none return.
Close by there sits and maunders of his years
The rotten sport who, having' had his knock
In Life s great game, protests with senile tears
iThat being out he should again take block.
Umpires are challenged, and the referee
Is damned by derelicts in game and fight:
And here a close analogy we see
When monkeys die that aged bores may skite.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


-mm*
I
'i.
mm
■
•• "
? I 4 .% s
y
"v pfe
-
SB
m
.
’
«. ..•
v‘ * r ;
IM
I
'i <•
»
r*
V*
-
!v
t
'
X
m
t
■- ;•
Mi
||||i|j|
o*£
iij:
■
sm§
H
The Cup Carnival
Fashions change-with kaleidoscopic effect—year after
year at Australia’s premier race gathering at Fleming-
ton the rendezvous of fashion, and Australasias best
in thoroughbreds. No two “ Cups are ever alike.
There is, however, one striking feature at this great
gathering that shows no sign of fickleness as the years
go by-and that is the-, long standing, continued,
and increasing popularity of Australian made
D
D
as evidenced* by the cars that journey to the Cup.
Since the automobile was admitted to Flemington the
cars’ “ paddocked ” have increased in numbers year
after year, and now Cup Day sees the finest aggregation
of cars—from the lordly “ Rolls Royce to the modest
runabout—that is to be seen at any gathering in Aus-
tralasia. The magnificent display of cars, counted in
thousands, is now a feature of the Carnival, ana an
inspection of the regiments of vehicles well illustrates
how the automobile has crept into our very existence,
and incidentally tells a story of “Dunlop superiority
and service-otherwise why their great predominance.
All garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


r.
r' v
C , Fife's schnap^ 6 )
Gillette
Safety Razor
ijf”
Ml
ffl&J
Camping
Days!
No matter how keen you are on
"roughing it" you'll need a smo >ili
shave. Take a
Gillette
to your camp and enjoy the luxury-
sh ave which only the Gillette makes
possible under, camp - conditions.
No stropping, no honing.
Standard set in leather case, 28/6.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
•itleite Safety Ra/or Co., Canada
S. I foffnung \ Co.. I »d.
Svdnev. Brisbane, Adelaide
&
Of course you want
PLUME ?
The garage knows Benzine
He knows that a satisfied customer comes
again and brings his friends. That is why
such a number of garage men say :
“Of course you want Plume ? ”
They know that Plume gives genuine
continued satisfaction that it gives easy
starting, quick acceleration, full power, and
good mileage.
Satisfy yourself that these are not
empty statements. Put Plume to the test
rnlfj
K
/
j
fc !
.!• :
n
Hi
m
on the steepest hills ; test it
on the level for power and
mileage. Test it for easy
starting on a cold morning.
You will be delighted with the
result. When ordering, ask
for Plume—don’t say Benzine.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 26
Vidal Old,” the sneech of a troubadour who
loved the famous Loba of Penautier:—
No man hath heard the glory of my days:
No man hath dared and won his dare as I:
One night, one body and one welding flame!
Quite new are the subtle cadences and lan-
guid beauty of “Praise of Ysolt” and “Planh”
and the quiet intensity of “Idyl for Glancus.”
The “Ballad of Goodly Fere,” with its virile
theme, is one of the most remarkable poems
written about Christ. And despite his
saturation in ancient languages, from Anglo-
Saxon to Chinese, his susceptibility to foreign
influence, Pound swims easily under the bur-
den of his erudition, as in the “Ballad of
Gloom”: —
I have loved my God as a child at heart
That seeketh deep bosoms for rest;
I have-loved my God as maid to man,
But, 10, this thing is best:
To love your God as a gallant foe that plays
behind the veil,
To meet your Gpd as the nighi winds meet be-
yond Arcturus pale.
I have played with God for a woman,
I' have staked with my .God for truth,
I have lost to my God as a man, clear-eyed,
His dice is not for ruth....
Ezra Pound’s early volumes represent a
rich harvest from his sporadic excursions
into ancient literatures, where, as a con-
noisseur of the curious, a dabbler in delicacies,
he is unrivalled. Not content, however, with
the songs of the troubadours of Provence and
the minnesingers of Germany, he plunged
into Greek, and, through the manuscripts of
Ernest Fenollosa, into the old literatures of
China and Japan. The results were ■ pub-
lished in a volume called “Lustra,” a treatise
on Japanese drama and a paraphrase of
Propertius. “Lustra” is unsatisfactory. It
contains lugubrious cantos, brittle fragmen-
tary arrangements in the vorticist vein,
scraps of Anglo-Saxon, snatches from the
Spanish, idioms from Italian, and chips from
the Chinese all jumbled together with a
smattering of erudition: the colored debris
of a patchwork mind. It is the poet ex-
pressing himself in terms of the pedant; the
artificer of antiques turned shopkeeper. The
later works are even more fragmentary and
marred by their trumpery smartness. So
long shut up with the echoes of the past,
Ezra Pound has understood every civilisation
but the present. At first he smiled at it; but
the smile has become a leer. Divorced from
reality a once-vivid singer, who came so near
to conquering Parnassus, is now the gamin
of Futurism letting off squibs in a back yard.
REG. S. ELLERY.
Men Who Have Dropped Out
Dr. Samuel Johnson made a dictionary
and a Scotchman wrote his life. Not very
much more than that remains of him. His
dictionary was the basis of others; the" bio-
graphy was a greater work than any from
his own pen. Yet he was the heavyweight
critic of his day, and many of his judgments
are interesting, while all sire frank. Take
a few: —
Of Congreve: “He had not the fire requisite for
the higher species of lyric poetry,” but “he has
shown us that enthusiasm has its rules, and that
in mere confusion there is neither grace nor great-
ness.”
Of Buckingham: “He had the perspicuity and
elegance of an historian, but not the fire and' fancy
of a poet.”
Oi Prior: “His numbers are such as mere dili-
gence may attain; they seldom offend the ear, and
seldom sooth it; they commonly want airiness, light-
ness and facility; what is smooth is not soft. His
verses *lways roll, but they seldom flow.”
Of Blackmore: “In his descriptions both of life
and nature, the poet and the philosopher happily
co-operate; truth is recommended by elegance, and
elegance sustained by truth.”
Of Fenton: “Fenton may be justly styled an excel-
lent versifier and a good poet.”
Of Gay: “A Pastoral of a hundred lines may be
endured ; but who will hear Qf sheep and goats and
myrtle bowers and purling rivulets through five
acts?”
Of Yalden: “He ought flo have remembered that
Infinite Knowledge can never wonder. All wonder
is the effect of novelty upon ignorance.”
Of Tickell: “To Tickell, however, cannot be
refused a high place among the minor poets.”
Of Hammond: “His verses are not rugged, but
they have no sweetness.”
Of Somerville: “With still less judgment did he
choose blank verse If blank verse be not tumid
and gorgeous, it is crippled prose.”
Of Savage: “His works are the production of a
genius truly poetical.”
Of Broome: “To detect his imitations were tedious
and useless.”
Of Young: “He is no more like himself in his
different productions than he is like others.”
Of Thomson: “His diction is in the highest degree
florid and luxuriant.”
These 14 writers of verse fill the whole of
Volume 111 of the “Lives of the IJoets.”
lieaving out as much of Young and Thom-
son as may linger on in decayed school-
books, how many lines of the whole of them
have been read in Australia in the last ten
years? Broome got £5OO and Fenton £3OO
from Pope for helping him to write “Homer” ;
and their part is spoken of as a great
achievement. With the perspective gained
in a century and a half it looks easy moneyi
D. McULLADH.
The Inky Way
“D.M.W.”: Yeats’s “nine bean rows”
phrase does not indicate any straining after
“simplicity,” but merely follows a well-
known and characteristic mode of Irish
thought. Numerals, which to a Saxon mind
are unnecessary, are prominent in the speech
of the Irish people to-day and in the text
of the oldest legends. Irishmen will feel
with their “ten fingers,” while other people
say “hand,” and don’t worry how the ex-
tremity is split up. Irishmen will see with
their “two eyes”; and, after all, a good deal
that is seen is seen with one eye only. So
the “nine bead rows” are color, nothing
more. It is the sure touch that lets you
know that Irinisfree is in Ireland; and it
is very much more to be desired for its pur-
pose than the introduction of a foreign or
obsolete word —the common and rather crude
method of getting a similar effect. The
really curious thing about the poem is its
-Lake Isle of Innisfree.” Seeing
trmt mnis means island, the spirit of the
label is very un-Irish.
"S.T.S.”: Bernard Cronin, when asked
why in “The Coastlanders” he made Tas-
manians talk Yankee slang, replied plea-
santly in The Bulletin that they do talk
1 ’ In his new novel > “Timber
Wolves,’ the thing is more noticeable than
ever. It seems a matter for first-hand evi-
dence. Tasmanians themselves might now
mention whether they do as a fact receive
; l hard-luck story with “Is that so? Too
bad ; -accept an offer with “Why, sure I
will" ; contradict 4 rumor with “They’s no-
thing to it”; go on strike with “We quit
your job cold wliea you started to beat Joe
UP ; or offer an escort with “I reckon maybe
I 11 tote you along home.”
124’ : Among the poses of the moment is
that ot adulation of*foreign authors. It began
with the worship of the Russian school, and
has now spread with some violence to a
little group of South Americans and others
an enterprising Yankee publisher has “dis-
covered” --and had translated—more or less.
Drop in upon any coterie of intellectuals
and bhrbling will be heard of the “grip,” the
"soul,” the “understandingness” of Vincente
Bananez, or Tehernitoff, Whodathohtov,
Roms Putitoverus or Joseph of Arimathoea.
why? Is it because they represent Some-
thing not Australian? Frankly I have found
these vaunted godlings of the pen obvious
hysteric, pseudo-intense, labored and (especi-
ally) prolix to distraction—and the stilted,
literal translation of the Latin or French
idioms makes a man’s flesh creep. Their
stuff wouldn’t be taken in Australia by the
editor of a church monthly or a prohibition-
ist propaganda journal. As for the Russians,
they would appear to find their vogue in
working themselves into a fever about a cat
found dead in an .unswept channel; or a
white-faced, burning-coal eyed female sneez-
ing into the shawl which wrapped her dead
cheeild! Is it decadence or is it Art?
“Tensor”: With the return to peace an
old bluff is being worked again. All instance
of it occurred when a Melbourne firm of
booksellers obtained permission from the
Federal authorities, mainly on the Uni-
versity’s representations, to import 100 copies
of bpalholz’s “Atlas of Anatomy,a three-
volume work in German. The grounds which
the Varsity authorities took were that the
publication, being the standard one on anat-
°my, had been prescribed as the text-book for
second- and third-year students, and that no
copies at all of it were available in Australia,
lor 15 years, to my knowledge, Cunning-
ham’s “Manual of Anatomy,” the last edition
of which was recently issued, was the pre-
scribed bp ok in the Universities of Sydney,
Adelaide and Melbourne. Now our professors
pass over the work and books of other recog-
nised anatomists of our own nation for the
production of an until-lately unheard-of Ger-
man writer. The explanation perhaps is that
the men responsible seek to impress the crowd
with the idea that they are people of such
wide reading that the books of all the world
are familiar to them.
THE FAME OF HOMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What did you do to Homer, Death?”
“I gripped his throat, I caught his breath;
I laid him under yellow clay
To turn to dust by Smyrna Bay.”
“And is his dust still speaking, Death? '
And has the clay of Smyrna breath?”
“He does not speak. ’Tis but his pen
I did not bury sings to men.”
‘‘Old Death, what will you do to me?”
“Grin while you may, and wait and see.”
I laughed; I poked him with my pen—
“ Get hence, you crabbed curse of men.”
He stood his ground. He did not go.
The grey bone crackled in his toe.
“A little pen like that,” he said,
“Keeps quiet in a shallow bed.”
“Was Homer’s pen so great ,a thing
That, restless, it could move and sing
When he who touched its point with ink
Had ceased to breathe and love and think ?”
Hist,” whispered Death, “that pen is great
Because it squared its fame with Fate.
Pens slaughter pens and as a test
Of life declare the oldest best.”
I see, I said. “Then Homer’s pen
Is but an ag6d fraud with men ;
And other pens are forced to die
In reverence for an ancient lie.”
Not so, cried Death. “This pen was strong
hor splendid sweeps of martial song;
And now those songs by- all unread
Live in the strength of being dead.”
I reeled at that and clutched niv hair;
With all my brains I beat the air.
“Oh, what is fame? My little pen,
How can I make you live for men?”
Death laughed a hearty laugh and free;
He slapped his bones against his knee.
“AVhat need for such wild mirth ?” I said.
“How can I live and yet be dead?”
“That’s easy,” giggling Death replied,
“Some things quite dead have never died.”
He vvhispered close between his hands:
“Write plenty no one understands.”
I turned, I wrote; the splendid sun
Shone fame upon my laurels won.
Death grinned. I caught the word he said—
“ Men praise all things conipletely dead.”
N.S.-W.
MARY McC.


IS
Hi
-ci
//
yj
v \
<&* i
X
V.
X
~x
--■;
y
ssn*
ALMOST everyone Knows
now that the word Pelaco
stands for Shirt-quality.
The idea is firmly grounded.
It is thoroughly supported by
the experience of men who
wear Pelaco Shirts.
“They Fit!” AsK your Mercer
for them.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA


This
RABBIT
may not be as sad as he
looks. But the skins of
His sisters and his
cousins,
Have gone forward
by the dozens—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
for sale. Senders always get top market
values for Rabbit, Fox, Kangaroo and other
skins at the firm’s auctions. Consign:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Don’t tell the children Joyce
Biscuits are made by the latest
scientific and hygienic methods, or
that thh food expert is enthusiastic
about their purity and goodness.
They won’t be interested in such
details —those are facts for adults
who are already beginning to
realise that a Joyce Biscuit is an
epitome of deliciousness, the diges-
tion of which is easy and complete.
As for the rest —well —the children
will tell you why they are so fond
of them.
YOUR GROCER SELLS THEM.
Sixty vane tier
s
Q
0
□
ji
(*&>
ri *■
*/ <»
£
>v.
GIVE
SATISFACTION
Thousands o£ letters are
received in the course
of a year verifying, our statements
of quality and long service under
every condition, of bicycles built
of genuine B.S. A. Fittings. These
letters are the outcome ol satis-
faction and pleasure derived from
the use of a thoroughly reliable
machine. That is the reason why
if you are buying a bicycle you
cannot do better than specify
genuine B.S. A. Fittings, and prove
for yourself the superior design
and constructional refinements,
then you will realize why it
will pay you in the end.
B.S.A. Fittings' are guaranteed interchangeable.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
S.A,
15
fff
Send for Handbook
post free.
D. Y. RENNIE
( representingß.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
L
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brooknian Buildings.
Hydro-Electric Scheme 48in. Wood Pipe Line
—Cliff Section, Mt. Lyell Mining & Railway
Co., Ltd., Tasmania.
“PIONEER”
WOOD PIPE
Combines Low Cost
with
High Efficiency.
It is made of carefully-seasoned timber of the kind best suited, in point of
strength and durability, to wood-pipe construction.
It conveys pure water in greater volume than metal pipe—in fact, the longer
it is in service the greater the volume becomes, because the smooth bore
becomes smoother by the action of the water, and the co-efficient of friction
lower. Government tests have proved that wood pipe will convey continu-
ously .15 per cent, more water than a ten-year-old metal pipe, and about
25 per cent, more than a twenty-five-year-old metal pipe. “PIONEER”
WOOD PIPE is cheaper to lay and lighter to handle than metal pipe, and
costs practically nothing to maintain.
Send for Descriptive Booklet.
All enquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree),
NEW SOUTH WALES.
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
s m
Su*.
sgas.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If
NORMAN
vi mi <
unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
; '
llill
■mwW£
■ ,-■/
4
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricaema.
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia, or from
CHATEEAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, from
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. [X
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Harley” : Wandering down for a dip at
7 a.m., I noticed a Greek fish-o in Sydney
carefully dressing his window. I passed a
State fish-sliop the same morning at 9.15,
and its slabs were still bare. Leaning against
the closed door were two employees, evidently
waiting for someone to open up.
“Sixenate” : Sydney shopkeepers are trying
to think of something to take the place of the
sale dockets issued to cash customers. The
Central Pplice Court has decided that the
docket is a receipt, and that if the amount is
over £2 a duty stamp must be affixed. Of
course the decision is to be tested; but Fluff
and Co. would feel more comfortable if they
had something less like a receipt to fall back
upon.
Don’t apprentice your boy to a skilled
trade; make a night-watchman of him. A
Melbourne follower of that profession lately
admitted owning cottages worth £5OOO,
though 18 months ago he didn’t possess £5OO.
The circumstance became public through his
appeal against sentences for being in pos-
session of stolen property; and he further
admitted that he had not received a legacy
of any sort. Appeal dismissed.
“Coolyah”: There are several factories in
W.A. making axe-handles from native wood.
The wood with the greatest tensile strength
is karri; but it is not the favorite, on
account of its red color, there being a stupid
prejudice against anything but a white
handle. Red-gum comes next. This is a
white wood, and is extremely strong. Handles
were lately being sold for lid. at the fac-
tory. Incidentally, some of the storekeepers
were at the same time retailing them at
2s. 6d.
* * * *
“Blacklip”: In Thursday Island (Q.) re-
turned men are making an effort to dislodge
the Japs in the becheMe-mer and trochus in-
dustry. During this year no less than 14
luggers have gone out undel white men,
12 of whom wear returned badges. If
the Japs are eliminated, the big money they
have been earning will at least remain in the
country, instead of probably helping Nippon
to train his young idea to shoot or to build
his latest woollen factory.
“T.H.M.”: “The Wanderer” (B. 19/8/’2O)
mentions that £3O was refused for 30 fat
bullocks in the paddock at Lower Manning
(N.S.W.). Surely he speaks of calves. Here
on King Island (Bass Strait) several sales,
in the paddock, have been completed that
knock “Wanderer’s” figures into a Governor’s
hat. Hobart buyers lately bought 121 head
of fats (44 cows, 77 four-year-old steers)
from H. F. Hardy at £4O per head. These
cattle will have a boat-trip (with possible
losses) to Launceston, and train afterwards.
“Tohu” : Sugar at £97 a ton, and Papua’s
vast areas of suitable sugar-growing land
still unexploited ! Does Australia realise that
sugar-cane is indigenous in her premier over-
sea territory? If she doesn’t it is time she
did. Years ago, when the C.S.R. wanted
new stock to propagate canes for its planta-
tions, it was Papua that supplied the varieties
now predominant in the Queensland, N. S.
Wales and Fiji fields. Garu, so beloved by
the sugar-farmers of Queensland, came from
Suau (South Cape) ; the name Garu is the
Suauan word for sugar-cane. If returned
soldiers are to be settled in Papua, why not
put them on the rich alluvial plains behind
Buna Bay, where thousands of acres of ex-
cellent land are lying under the primeval
jungle? Establish co-operative colonies, of
hefty young Billjims, assist them with trans-
port, implements, and necessaries like food,
labor (the Buna district is a populous part
of Papua and once a big source of plantation
labor) and houses; then erect a mill, and
there should be no danger of the venture not
succeeding.
WHEATEN BREAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sower’s work is over,
The fertile .seed is sown,
And now a wind of kindness
Across the land is blown
From dawn to sunset red —
A wind of wondrous kindness
That whispers, soli and row:
“Grow, seed, grow ;
For hungry folk are calling
For bread, wheaten bread.”
The sun and rain together
Have brought the wheat to ear,
And now a wind of kindness,
A wind, dew-waslied and cle?”
Across the land is sped—
A wind of wondrous kindness
That whispers, soft and low:
“Grow, grain, grow ;
For hungry folk are calling
For bread, wheaten bread.”
The time has come for reaping,
The harvesting's at hand,
And now a.wind of kindness
Is blowing o’er the land ;
And this is somehow said,
AVhat time that wind of kindness
Blows over plain and steep:
“Reap, reapers, reap ;
For hungry folk are calling
For bread, wheaten bread.”
The wheat is in stout waggons
That groan beneath their loads,
And now a wind of kindness
Blows down the country roads
From dawn to sunset red—
A wind that whispers lowly
With wondrous pity graced:
“Haste, wheels, haste;
For hungry folk are calling
For bread, wheaten bread.”
The grain has come to gristing,
The harvest to the mill,
And now a wind of kindness
Blows in from creek and hill
From dawn till sunset red;
And says this wind of kindness,
This soft and patient wind:
“Grind, mill, grind ;
For hungry folk are calling
For bread, wheaten bread.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


STORAGE
BATTERY
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
Advice Second.
Sales Third.
There’s our policy in a nutshell.
First-When the customer comes
in, find out what HE wants. Give
him satisfaction at the lowest charge
consistent with a good, thorough job.
Second—Tell him how to prevent
battery trouble. We’re not anxious
to repair his battery, except to make
it last longer.
Third—When he really needs a
new battery we want him to buy it
from us, naturally, and to buy a
Willard with Threaded Rubber
Insulation—because that battery will
last longer and give him less occa-
sion for expense on repairs than any
other battery he can buy.
STORAGE
BATTERY
.Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulation
8/
90


Hose of Luxite
is made in your favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
THE, GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading' Hotel.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Bancoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, 'Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a iconic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
Public Notice.
INVESTMENT
10 per cent. Cumulative Prefer-
ence Shares in Sound, Progressive
Company.
Balance-sheets and bank references.
Applications for Prospectus invited
from Gentlemen of standing only.
“Investment,”
Box 521 G.P.O.
SimjJeVlJay^
The simple and practical way to polish
and preserve finished surfaces is to use
Johnson's Prepared Wax with a cloth.
You need no brushes, sprays nor mops.
Just apply the wax with a cloth and then
polish with a dry cloth. With very little
rubbing you can produce a lustrous polish
of great beauty and durability.
n
is more than a polish. It is also a wonderful
preservative, for it forms a thin protecting film,
which preserves the finish unusually well.
Use jonnson’s Prepared Wax to polish all your
furniture, woodwork and floors. You will thus
add years to the life and beauty of the varnish,
covering up all surface scratches.
i«»MOS*W}-{
WI'U
SCCEtf
Bill
M
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
can be had in both paste;
and liquid form — paste
for polishing floors, wood,
oil-cloth, tile, etc; liquid
for polishing furniture,
woodwork, motor cars,
etc. Ask your dealer for
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
and begin to enjoy the
simple way.
S. C. JOHNSON S SON,
379 Kent St., Sydney,
N.S.W.
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
■
. “Petramos”: Persistent reading of “so-
ciety” news brings some of us to a pretty
pass/ The other morning I discovered my
friend Briggs’s wife engaged in manufactur-
ing confetti by passing a well-known pink
cover through the meat-mincer.
Frank Hodgman, the youthful skipper of
the little Southern Cross, supposedly wrecked
in the vicinity of King Island, was a son of
Tom Hodgman, for a good many years mem-
ber of the Speck’s Assembly and one of the
most competent and popular race-club secre-
taries in the Commonwealth.
“Dr. Nil”: Wtiat “Silas Snell” says about
the bruiser who was beaten by a smell is
quite feasible. Some people get “spasmodic
asthma” when they smell certain scents. I
knew an old Mrs. Gamp who collapsed with
it whenever she had to make a linseed poul-
tice. I myself, though in perfect health at
56, always felt a bit tight in the wind when
I smelt lilies or tuberoses.
“Dan De Non”: Spring brings a very
definite message to Young Australia. I
recently gave an advanced class a lectu-
rette on ethnology. Next day, to test how
much of my remarks had been retained, I
asked, “What are the superior races?” and
beckoned the dunce of the class to answqy.
lie didn’t hesitate. “The Melbourne Cup
and the Derby,” he said.
The Royal Academy (London) hit of the
year was “Mr. Minney,” and there was con-
siderable speculation as to the original of
the portrait. No price was set on the
painting, and by common consent it was set
down as that of a war profiteer. While the
other profiteers were attempting to locate
Mr. Minney’s particular sphere of industry
he settled all arguments by dying—in the
workhouse.
“Trainee” : Apropos of “the heartless con-
servatism which aims at allowing only
two working-class boys out of nine to learn
a trade, while seven sell newspapers, deliver
milk or follow the ponies” (B. 23/9/’2O),
we order these things better in Westralia.
In the engineering trade, for instance, there
is one apprentice to every two journey-
men and one vocational trainee to every
six journeymen. And the same proportions
obtain in other trades.
“Audio”: “House” wasn’t played only in
the A.1.F.; we found it popular among the
polyglot population of Egypt. In Alexandria
the beauty of two daughters was the magnet
that attracted a mate and myself to the flat
of a Russian family. The company enter-
tained was the most cosmopolitan I have
ever seen. Roumanians, Greeks. Spaniards
and Syrians gathered round the table to
play “tombalo,” as they name it. The num-
bers were called out in Italian, French and
Arabic. Disputes were frequent, and the
noise when a lucky player called “Tombalo!”
was one more addition to the plagues of
Egypt,
Brisbane Mail alleges that it took stock
in one electorate at the recent Queensland
elections with this result, so far as it was
able to verify things. Twelve persons who
had been struck off the roll were prestent (or
professed to be) and voted once, while two
more voted twice; two dead people. voted
once; 138 live people voted twice, and six
did it three times and three did it four
times; two absentees were allegedly present
and voted once, and another turned up and
voted twice. Also, three votes were chal-
lenged but recorded all the same—the offi-
cer presumably wasn’t taking objections that
day.
According to Minister Ivavanagh the
Storey Government “has been in communica-
tion with every cement-producing country
in the world, but the price is prohibitive.”
Some reasons of the difficulty seem to be
that the fixing of the price of N. S. Wales
cement at £5 Ss. per ton (the Government
takes it at that figure) when the makers
could get over £lO a ton in other States,
and when the imported price is £l2 10s., has
wet-blanketed the' industry. It is easy to
fix a price; it is a different matter to get
work done at it, especially when the interest
that can be earned by buying a cartload of
depreciated Government bonds is good enough
for many people without bothering to make
cement and other things.
Ellis Joseph, the wild-animal dealer whose
buffalo recently scared a horse to death in
Moore Park (Sydney)', was formerly a
sailor, but quitted the sea for railway-recon-
struction work in Maoriland. Then, he went
a-hunting, and there are few countries in the
world that haven’t known his footmarks, and
the zoo doesn’t exist that hasn’t got him on
its free list. “Joe” was once interviewed by
an Adelaide pressman and explained how
hippopotami were driven along graduallv
narrowing creeks with high banks till at
length they were cornered and netted. “Ah,”
mused the pressman, “and, after that, I
supnose it’s a simple matter to get the beggars
to the top.” “Oh, yes,” returned the hunter,
‘all that remains to be done is to lasso ’em
with steel chains and attract them to the top
with magnets.” Joseph, who is an outsize
in men, would be perfectly happy these days
if the Londoner who had made his boots for
15 years had not disappeared in an air raid.
( Unmeasured is the admiration of certain
Sydney Labor aldermen for the architectural
Kirkpatricks, whom they yearn to enrich
with a £40 v OOO monopoly, and saddening by
contrast is the critical attitude of other
Labor authorities. The A.L.P. executive
has resolved that “it is not in the best in-
terests of Labor that the City Council should
proceed with th<* Moore-street extension.”
The Worker observes that the scheme
in question presents “many obnoxious
features.” And Dr. Maloney, M.H.R.,
soundly berates the Commonwealth Bank
for turning down soldier-architects and giv-
ing preference to the non-military Kirk-
patricks in relation to war service homes.
“There is to be erected another Common-
wealth Bank in Collins-street,” said the
peppery Labor member for Melbourne, “gnd
I will make a wager, for the benefit of any
hospital, that the architectural work will
go to the same gang. If ever there was a
suspicious case of nepotism in public life this
is one.” But really the little doctor should
remember that even Sydney Labor aldermen
have their finer feelings and moderate his
language accordingly. Otherwise he will
become almost as malevolently unpopular
with them as the returned soldier is.


mm
■
m
m
-
■
■ ■ ■ . ■.
:-v-.
.vvilf--
1
m i
■
'
" 'liilll
m
?:
■
■%wm
■s ...
1
I
ip
; *u*
’ ■'
%55-
r 4 \
m
JMtTH t)
JULIltf
3TUDiy.
m
—-§
2
r®
<^L
r
■The G Value of iMusic
CARLYLE has said that "music is a kind
of inarticulate, unfathomable speech which
leads us to the edge of the Infinite, and com-
pels us for a moment to gaze into it.” It is the
universal language of the feelings which in-
creases sympathy and broadens the horizon of mankind.
HERBERT SPENCER, in his "Origin and Function of
Music,” has placed it at the head of the fine arts, declaring
that music cannot be too much applauded as a noble means
of ministering to human welfare.
Thus these two gifted Englishmen give voice to the feelings
which stir in the hearts of the masses.
The Beale Player-Piano is the one instrument for the whole
family. It is an unlimited source of pleasure to those who
cannot play by hand, and the golden mellowness of the
tone appeals to the technically proficient musician. The >
children can listen to the best in pianoforte composition
and study expressipn as indicated by the world’s masters.
The better musician you are the more you will appreciate the Teale
Showrooms :
333 George St.
Sydney
AND COMPANY LTD.
Factories :
41-47 Trafalgar St-
Annandale
BRANCHES
N. S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


RASH ON FACE
1
Skin Inflamed. Prevented
Sleep. Cuticura Heals.
“I was troubled with an irritating
rash on my face which broke
in a form like eczema. Then
the skin became very inflamed.
It seemed worse at night and
prevented me from sleeping
It also made my face very
disfigured.
“Seeing the Cuticura adver- .
tisement I decided to send for a free
sample and in a few days there was a
marked improvement. I then bought
more Soap and Ointment and I was
healed.” {Signed) J. F. Bird,Bl Princes
St., Carlton, Victoria.
Prevent further trouble by using
Cuticura for all toilet purposes.
They are ideal for the complexion.
For sample each address : “R. Towns &
N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, ]/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
Crlme eicaya
Do You Look
As Young As
You Feel?
MAYBE because
you feel fine you
fail to notice as others
do the little .lines
stealthily forming in
your face. Take care
of your skin now.
Try this simple formula —
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the (kin;
then if you need color, a very
little Elcaya rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream ■■ quite dry; and
niter that the film of iaee
ponder over all.'*
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/0.
All kgc<i Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Elcaya Co. Inc., New York, U.S.A.
j^otastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 30/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
AnJ COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:—From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
7 _ V„. :
Tinder the management of P. Hennessy.
‘/^irbanks-Morse
Centrifugal Pumps
are the simplest, most efficient, most durable
and satisfactory water lifting devices. Suited for
all classes of service—irrigation, drainage, exca-
vating, tank service, for use in breweries, sand
and gravel washing plants, etc.
Fairbanks-Morse Quality insures the utmost in
pump efficiency and reliability. Ask your dealer to-
day for details and specifications of various types.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, LTD., Melbourne.
AINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, LTD., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart, TasmctnlX
pairbanks, Morse fcr(B
INCORPORATED
MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.,
NEW YORK, U.S. A,
London,
England
Buenos Aires,
Argentina
Williams’
Squeeze half an inch of Williams*
Luxury Shaving Cream on your
brush, lather up for a few minutes,
use a good razor, and the result is
a perfect shave. A shave that
leaves your face smooth and re-
freshed free from that
“ awful smart ” usually
experienced when other
soaps are used. You can
also obtain Williams’
Shaving Soap in stick
or cake form.
Procurable at all
Tobacconists.
Luxury
having
ream
mn
m
m
I
v
w
THE.- PERFECT PIPE
Puts tHe OK.
into SmOKe
A genuine French briar pipe of Lon-
don manufacture, sold at a moderate
price.
When buying a new pipe remember
three letters —GBD.
Many popular shapes. On sale everywhere.
The header Billy Hughes took at Sydney
Centennial Park off his charger recalls a
buster old-time Premier Jock Robertson had.
Riding home to Vaucluse on his old mare
after a censure motion that failed, he was
thrown. “Well, Jinny, you ,” said old
Jock, “you’ve done what the Opposition
couldn’t do, anyhow.”
“Centurion” : A greater than George Wash-
ington has arisen in the U.S.A. His name is
James C. Ohlsen, and he is a Brooklyn chem-
ist. Last June when a chemists’ society in
Noo Yoik sat down to dinner, in each man’s
plate was a cube of jelly and a spoon. The
jelly was a condensed cocktail, the work of
the aforesaid Ohlsen, and a great joy fell on
the assembly., The bone-dry law forbids the
use of liquors, but forgot to ban solids!
At present prices Australia should be
growing all her own tobacco, but the im-
porter who cheerfully pay 7s. per lb., duty
included, for foreign-grown leaf, thinks the
local grower ought to be content with 2s.
Gel. a lb. at the outside. And the lowest
import duty is 2s: per' lb. Wangaratta
(Vic.) grows a lot of tobacco and would like
to grow more. Having a notion that the
leaf is worth twice or thrice what the to-
bacco people offer for it, it intends sending
a ton or two to Blighty.
“Audio” : A knowledge of law and the in-
tricacies of a bill of costs are not the lawyer’s
only aids to wealth. A Melbourne solicitor
makes a specialty of probate work. On
news of a death he digs his long-flogger out
of the wardrobe and hurries to console the
sorrowing widow or other female next-of-kin.
eulogising his dead friend and regretting he
had not seen much of him immediately prior
to his decease. After that the widow can
hardly fee another shark to obtain probate of
the will.
“Pip Tok”: “C.0.M.” (B. 30/9/’2O) in
his list of tell-tale wortjs might have included
the names of a couple of London pubs. “The
Elephant and Castle,” a name dating from
Henry Vll.’s day, was originally “The In-
fanta of Castile,” and “The Bull and Mouth”
is a corruption of “Boulogne Mouth,” the
“mouth” part signifying “gate.” The Old
Contemptibles, when they first arrived in
France, found difficulty in the phrase “II n’y
on a plus,” which they rendered by “napoo.”
The French adopted “napoo,” thinking it
English, and later on the Digger heard
mad ame and mademoiselle say it, and
accepted it as dinkum French.
"Hekla”: Like Columbus, some of the
Icelanders who settled in Western Canada
(including the parents of Viljamar Stefans-
son, the Canadian Arctic explorer, who once
had the S. Australian George 11. Wilkins
as liis right-hand man) were steered 'up
against America by accident. They left the
geyser country about 40 years ago, reckon-
ing to tranship in England for Australia, but
when they reached Britain they fell amongst
thieves or emigration agents or something.
None of them could speak any English worth
noticing, and kind friends advised them that
the vessel which finally dumped them in
Canada was bound for Australia. Whether
they _ paid for the ferry-trip across the
Atlantic the full fare to Australia isn’t
recorded. Anyway, Australia lost some hard-
working and intelligent citizens of a fine type
both physically and mentally. And Manitoba
gained some thousands of Icelanders and
their descendants.
“Honest Burglar”: It was my privilege
during a short retirement from business to
meet a man who was both a gentleman and
an artist. He was French to the finger-tips,
and a disagreement with a rival for a lady’s
hand led to his separation from the orchestra
in which he was first violin. We were per-
mitted a quiet little jubilee oh the occasion
of the governor’s birthday, and Frenchy called
for his fiddle. The boys waited in happy
anticipation, but the show was disappointing.
The artist played only classical airs, and
after standing it for a time he was well
and truly birded and replaced by “Yipper”
Dodge with his mouth-organ. Frenchy
ground his teeth and gesticulated with his
fiddle. Then he hissed : “Bah! Zey are eem-
beciles. Zey have not even ze instincts of
ze ordinary gentlemens. Bah! In future I
play only to ze warders.”
“Foreign Sales” : An Australian lately
perfected an invention to simplify office-work,
and spent some hundreds getting it in front
of one of the best American firms in this
line. After going over the idea, the Ameri-
can said, “Yes, we’ll give you £7OOO for
this on one condition: you must agree to
defend any legal actions that may be
brought against us.” The Australian natu-
rally shrank from shouldering an obligation
/of that size, a mere £7OOO being likely to
vanish like a bunch of thistledown in the
hurricane blast of one big case. Then,
having brought the inventor right down to
• earth, the Yanks unbosomed themselves:
“It’s this way. If we bought that idea from
you, all the other firms in our line would
worry us with infringement actions on the
chance of getting it away from us. And
we don’t mind telling you that if you sell it
to any of our competitors, we’ll have a go
at them.” The disgusted Australian threw
the bone to the pack and came back to his
own country to put it on the local market.
‘"Exile” : Fqr 74 dallars in Noo Yoick I
got a list of . millionaires and multi-million-
aires interested in art, from an agency estab-
lished in ISBO—-“the oldest and largest firm
of the kind on earth.” Its “catalog” con-
tains 7500 "separate classifications, domestic
and foreign, giving names' and addresses of
business and residential people who are
worth while. The list of lists starts with
“acid manufacturers,” of whom there are
877 in the United States, and ends with
“woodworkers,” numbering 40,062. The
latter would ..cost 150 dallars. Millionaires
are classified as steel, cattletraneh, oil, auto-
mobile and landowning; and the greatest
of these, are 'the landowners in the U.S.A.
as everywhere. My list of rich people
interested in art included such names as
Pratt. Carnegie, Ford, Willys. Astor,
Dupont. Frick, Gary, Gor'd. Pulit-
zer. Straps and Schiff, besides many more
of the race whose patron saint in Victoria
is St. Ivilda. Sorry I never' met any of
them, or this par. would be longer. But I
saw several private secretaries in Wall-street
and Fifth-avenue, and they all looked like
Jesse Willard and Donald Dinnie, and
threatened to act accordingly. So I usually
“quit.”


T :i ? *
m
m
'
m
X
h/
Vv
m
.
• • .•• .
f M fl
m
m
mm »
1 WM. i
t ;
HUM"
W' •«*** //„..
r
4M
IP
cfttl
UST imagine the comfort and convenience of having electric
light anywhere in the home just by pressing a switch. No
matter where you live, however far from the nearest town,Western
Electric Power and Light brings you city benefits in abundance.
No more smelly, dirty kerosene lamps to fill and clean every day;
no more hot stuffy rooms every night, and no danger of fire.
But that is only one part of Western Electric Service. This wonderful
plant provides a series of splendid home helps by way of electric power.
Just think what they would mean to you all during the coming hot summer months. A whizzing Elec-
tric Fan to bring cool breezes into any room day or night. Quick appetising meals made without
trouble on a Western Electric Cooker, or an Electric Toaster to make breakfast or supper a pleasure.
On washing day all the work would be done in half the time without hard work by the Western
Electric Washing Machine and Electric Iron. The house would be kept clean and bright with
a Western Electric Vacuum Cleaner instead of trying to do it with brooms. And what could
delight a woman more than the Western Electric Portable Sewing Machine, a full size
machine, yet so compact that you can carry it about with one hand, sew anywhere,
inside or outside, and electric current does all the hard work.
Those are some of the splendid benefits of Western Electric Power and Light and
they are only possible because the Western Electric Battery is big and strong with
plenty of electric current for all requirements.
A further valuable service which appeals to farmers, orchardists and graziers is
the Western Electric h.p. Kerosene Engine. It is fitted with a pulley from which
you can drive many of the machines in daily use.
Altogether, there is no other plant that can compare with Western Electric Power and
Light for Service and Satisfaction. It is easy to buy, too, and a splendid money-making
investment. Write for 20 Page Booklet and all particulars regarding installing Western
Electric Power and Light in your country home.
Western Electric Company
(Austra!ia)Ltd
192 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Agents: C. R. Foster, 262 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. T. Tonks, Elizabeth St., Brisbane. Newton McLaren, Leigh St.,
Adelaide. Medhurst Electric Co., 11 Argyle St., Hobart. A. D. 6d Riley Co., Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z. Also at
Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z.
Western Electric
POWER LIGHT
%
7/.
m
! ■
WT
1
w
»
m
scz>
oeaestaß


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, finest-quality
Instruments, plain design, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Silver-mounted Shoe Hook, Glove Hook and Lift in
silk-lined case, plain design, 25/-. Larger size, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
richly chased “Ribbon” design, silk-lined, £5/5/-
&
A. Saunders’ Bedroom or Travelling Watch
Case, Solid Silver, “hammered” design.
Complete with Watch, 30/-
Without watch, 20/-
52
'tfjr-
£B
y
<
t
A. Saunders* Lady’s Solid Silver Toilet Set, in silk-lined
case, daintily engraved, finest-quality Bristles, bevelled-edge
mirror, £5. Others, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Brush Set, com-
prising two Hair Brushes and Comb, 55/-
A. Saunders’ Hat or Cloth Brush, Solid Silver,
flnest-quality bristles, 35/-
K 3
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, Sterl-
ing Silver Shields, flnest-quality bristles, in
leather case, 45/-
m
How Oxy-Acetylene Welding
cuts the cost of car
and truck upkeep!
WITH the high cost of spare parts and the difficulty of getting
them for many European cars, hundreds of car-owners
would be in a terrible fix without Oxy-Acetylene Welding.
For Oxy-Acetylene Welding not only makes broken parts of all
cars and trucks as strong as new, but worn parts can be built up
to strength again for a trifle compared with the cost of replacement.
Cracked and broken gear and crank cases, differential housings,
steering gear, frames and anything composed of cast or wrought iron,
mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium or gunmetal, can be permanently
repaired by Oxy-Acetylene Welding.
Under the title of Comox Welding Stations you can find hundreds of
Oxy-Acetylene Welders all over Australia ready for instant service
in putting disabled cars and trucks back on the road. Up-to-date
garages as a rule are equipped with Comox Welding Plants, and they
save money in case of broken parts. Send for address of your
nearest Comox Welder. You will find him a good man to know.
Garages and Workshops. Ask for information regarding the instal-
lation of a Comox Welding and Cutting Plant. It’s a wonderful
investment.
Commonwealth Oxygen 8 Accessories Ltd.
Foy Street, Balmain, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—FYVIE & STEWART, 362 Collins Street, Melbourne; GEO. WILES & CO.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide; EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane;
kARRISON BROS. & CO., LTD., 20 Patterson Street, Launceston; GEO. MILLS
& CO., LTD., Murray Street, Perth; BROWN & JOSKE, Suva, Fiji. 1X412


Amusements.
Harry
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINiOSH.
-p tvoti
tHEAT It®! SIDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. .
Matinees Wednesday dnd Saturday at -30.
hugh d. Mclntosh s
MASTERPIECE PRESENTA'noN.
THE GIRL FOR THE BOY.
The Best Show that has ever got into Australia.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-pj YOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
every Evening at 8.
HUGH b. McINTOSH presents another Musical
Masterpiece.
MAGGIE. m /
Starring engagement of VERA PEARCE and
IVY SHILLING,
Prides as, usual.
Hfc R SI A.IISST Y ’ 8, BYI>S K V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Every evening at s.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
YES* UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
With DOROTHY RRUNTON.
Plans at Paling’s. _____
Clt IT IS KI O N TII IS A T R K. SV ,>N ET.
Lessees: 3. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
every evening at s.
the MuSICAt. COMEDY SUPREME,
ibene.
Plans at Paiing’s.
OWN MALL, SYDNEY.
Week commencing At THe matinee
Saturday, November g.
PUBLIC tI&ALt/t PZLJFXS Pj-eserd
J*OA&
Written by
Dr. KATHERINE B. DAVIS.
Featuring
RICHARD BENNETT,
The famous dramatic star,
and
CLAIRE ADAMS,
SCREENLAND’S latest beauty.
A Photo-play that tells our young people what
their parents ought to teach them —but seldom do.
SPECIAL MUSICAL ACCOMPANIMENT BY A
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA OF
16 SOLO INSTRUMENTALISTS 16.
Mr. J. Y. MALING (Conductor).
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-; Reserves 4/-
Plan at Paling’s.
CHILDREN UNDER 15 NOT ADMITTED.
LADIES!
Why not ha ye your Visiting- Cards
engraved by an expert?
The cost is not as high as you think.
Notepaper embossed at reasonable charge.
A. S. BENNETT,
21 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Unique
Diamonds
Fine pairs from
£5O to £lOOO.
We are showing some of the world’s rare
diamonds, superlative jewels in any country.
Sizes from one to fourteen carats each gem.
The rare pink-blue-white diamonds.
The prized Jager Fontien diamonds.
The scarce AVesselton diamonds.
All these are being offered at 25 per cent,
less than London prices.
They are high-figure jewels—but money can-
not buy anything finer at any price.
It is seldom that goods of these qualities are
available in Australia.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Finney’s New Book!
SllJt:
3
(Z £
If
This beautiful
Fashion book,
profusely illus-
trated in many
colors, brings
the newest
fashions right
into your home.
It also portrays
a fine collection
of Men’s and
Boy’s Wear,
Household Dra-
peries, etc.
This Beautiful Book Posted Free
to Any Address in Australia.
Finney, Isles 8 Co. Ltd.
The Drapers of Queensland,
BRISBANE.
Amusements.
ALACK THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON Ltd.
Farewell Season of MARIE TEMPEST and
GRAHAM BROWNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
THE GREAT ADVENTURE.
Arnold Bennett’s Master-play.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
The con a n doy l e lectures.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, SATURDAY (MATINEE),
15th. 17th, 20th NOVEMBER.
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE,
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE,
M.D.. LL.D.,. will deliver
THREE ENTIRELY DIFFERENT LECTURES.
6/-, 3/-, 2/- (all plus Tax).
Box Plan opens at Cole’s, Monday, Nov. 8.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
IJ N
1O N V ICTII K E TIIEAT It E 8
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTiC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY NOV. 6.
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
AS YOU LIKE IT.
With ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-WATTS.
NEXT SATURDAY,
THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Box Plan now open at the Pianola.
MELBOURN E.
Ml
ELBA THEATRE,
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PAIHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK. ,
Amusements.
PLAYHOUSE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ DIRECTION AUSTRALIAN PLAYS, LTD.
THE BOSS COCKIE.
“The tank's full”—also, the house full.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET; and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridgel.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
TOM MIX in
THE DAREDEVIL.
RFATTMONT SMITH’S Bis Australian Production.
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER.
Prices as usual.
QLYMPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
YVIRTH BROS.’ NEW CIRCUS, LTD.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE
GLACIA R I u M ,
' MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TiBLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y|\JESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
TWO WEEKS.
/
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
(RITANNIA THEATRE. MEEIiOCRNE.
TnE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions. ■
YDNEY
OFFICIAL
8-HOUR ART UNION, 1920.
a £
(h &A
1— —164,980
2
3
4
5
0—348,978
7
8—
9
10—
11—
12—
13—
14—
15—
16—
17—
18—
19—
20—
21—
22
23
24
25
26
27 — 355,634
28—
29
30—
31—
32
33
34
35
36
37
38—
39 304,535
40—
41—
42
43
44
45
46
47
48—
49
50—
M.C
11
f‘A
RESULT.
Drawn October 30, 1920.
5 E
3
•f-'A
51—
52 |102—170,796
53 — 91,133 103—330,182
54 279,(658
55
56
57
58— 199,017
59
60— 7,551
61—
62 338,176
03—i3,52.192
64
65 — 215,541
66
67
68—
69
70—
71—
72
73 295,651
74 — 355,917
75
76
77
78—
79 349,4801129
80 — 211/934] 130
175,
lOi
106
99.505
309,790
107
308,704
108
277.773
109
46,698
110
124,702
111
347,863
112
73.075
113
114
296.532
343,064
115
216.109
116
154,823
151
304,344
152
170,454
153
156,085
154
254.752
155
318.443
233,678
157
132,053
158
245.517
309,622
160
281.917
161
162
81,612
163
319,854
267.791
164
281,379
16:
227.044
160
•2 JO
277,983
10,817
233,632
255.797
-169,141 255
117—
118—
119—
120—
121—
122
123
124
125 — 259,786
126 — 242,771
127 — 328,091
128—
106,309
3,657
81— 131
82—
83—
84—
■85,308
-327.682
-218.695
-319,878
-78,420
-113,206
-58,000
92
93 — 164,759
94
95 — 316,966
96
97 — 136,705
98—
99
100—232,557
-243,176
132
133
134 — 91,276
135
136
137
138—
139
140—
141 — 76,151
142 100,578
143
144
145
146
147
148—
149 — 314,064
167
168—
169
170—
171, —366.669
172
173
174
175
176
177 — 349,468
178—
179
180—
181—
182—
183—
184—
185—
186—
187—
188—
189—
190—
191—
192
193
194
195
196
197
198 — 84,745
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208—
209
210 — 348,265
211—
242—320,957
213
214
215
216 — 341,953
217
218—
219
220 — 194,888
221
222 — 17,007
223
224 — 265,730
225
226
227
228
229
230 — 202,560
231
232
233
234
235
236 278,168
237
238
239
240
241 — 304,457
242
243
244 195,943
245
246
247 — 161,366 297
248 !298
-4,381
-132,103
-321,417
-311,64
302
303
304
1305
365.950
250,320
73,668
147,329
260 — 152,615
261
262 — 156,406
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
210—277,252
271
272
273
274 — 10,242
275
276
277
278
279
280—
281—
282
283 — 247,141 333
284 334
285 335
286
287
288—
289
290 — 123,047
291
292 — 24,362 -
293 — 22,237 |343-
294 321,701|344
ll
295-
296-
1.99 —95,443 1249—56,874 |299-
-340,155
-140,814
-133,596
-346,487
-135,358
92,782
•307,581
■295,445
-153,407
306 356,711
307
308—
309
310—
311—
312
313
314
315
316
317
318—
319 — 139,170
320
321 281.457
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329 — 225,645
330
331
332 — 137.450
•30,760
273,096
-295,339
336
337
338
339 303,005
340
341
342 209,620
135,073
-201,454
oli.UuT JLJ7J7 . * | '
150 — 313,826|200 — 248.4441250—326,4181300 — 310,813
345-
346-
347-
348-
349-
350-
351
352
353 — 139,692
354
355
356
357
358 1,457
359
360
361
291,524|362 —199,045
363
364 — 201,959
365 — 237,936
366 81,312
367
368
309—217,824
370 — 184,279
371
372 — 122.241
373 — 346,670
374
375
376
377
378
379
380 — 165,078
381—
382 127,006
383 5
384
;85—230,981
386
387
388—
389 304,188
390
391
392
393 — 10,239
394
395 — 248,360
396 — 281,550
397
398
399
400—
-323,659
-309,747
-144,599
-85,964
-247,231
-293,450
LUU ZtO&yOO! 7 I ~ , , x
Wp the undersigned hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above Art
Union’, and declare *the same has been conducted in a proper manner and with absolute fairness.
C. CHURCHLAND, The Sun.
H. J. C. BOYD, Austral Press, Ltd.
EDWARD DOWNEY, S. M. Herald.
J. F. ROLFE, Daily Telegraph.
F. W. CLARKE, J.P., Australian Worker.
J. W. DOYLE, M.L.A.
H. N. SOUTER, Sergeant of Police.
The Prizes will be paid over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER
at 10 a m.. at the Trades Hall, Goulburn Street, Sydney.
",r* '“.y, October SO. 1920. ARTHUE W. YAGER, Secretary.
in
fm
The singer’s voice
—Re-Created
The singer’s voice comes from the
New Edison just as if it came direct
from the singer’s throat—just as
clear, as lifelike. It is perfect—no
critic can tell the difference.
The New Edison
is so different to others that, even if yon do not like “talking
machines?” you will desire this marvellous musical instrument.
Let us send you convincing literature describing the New Edison—
post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
KLNG’S theatre. mE I, rock ne.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
Revival of JOHN D. O’HARA in
LIGHTNIN’. Plan at Allan’s.
C|K
lilunt
H\mt’s Underwear
TO supply the growing demand for
well-fitting Underwear of a
high-grade fine English and
Scottish woven textures,
WE CARRY A WIRE ASSORT-
MENT, and exclusive choice of Fine
Soft-finish Wool, Silk and Wool and
Pure Silk, in many weights and
colorings.
The sizes range from chest 84in. to
."iOin., including extra width, short and
length fitments, which form an integral
part of a well-fitting garment.
JEichari>;SiHit &C 0
1314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
9
"3
m
A
' FOOTWEAR
A COMFORT
jM is obtainable by wearing
- ABBEY SHOES.
The styles are specially commended to
exclusive dressers, and being constructed
on comfort-giving lines- will appeal to all.
We feature a smart made-to-order style
in Tan Willow' Calf.
"Prices: 45/- & 57/6
Patent Bals., dull legs, 67/6
Box Calf Bals 47/6
111 full sizes and D and E fittings.
Postage Extra. Write for Our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.


The first reunion of the 34th Battalion
will be held in Maitland on or about Nov. 13.
Those interested ought to get in touch with
.H. W. Lilya, 14 O’Connell-street.
rnk
WM
MILESTONES IN
MOTION
PICTURES
1920
1919
Ws
I
ate
I^l6
tm
i Tlit Sign afQulrt;
1915-
i&jnait'iiiTg
1914
iiflrm-Tffl
1913:
llThe genesis of the motion picture forms
jo ne of Australia’s commercial history.
llYear by year the ever-growing army of
amusement-seekers has watched in won-
der the growth of UNION THEATRES in
the large cities of the Commonwealth.
TINot only have tremendous strides been
made in the Photoplay itself* but the
temples dedicated to the silent art have
undergone a metamorphosis nothing short
of miraculous.
flAnd all in weight years.
IfNo longer is the motion picture the
mere plaything of adventurers in the
realm of amusement. It is irradicably
interwoven into the lives of the people
—it is national, it is world-wide, and
backed by solid, sterling commercial
institutions, IT IS ENDURING.
TlThe development of Union Theatres is
ever increasing, so much so that thousands
of the patrons of the photoplay, who by
distance or circumstance have been denied
the right of seeing the ideal motion pic-
ture presented in the UNION THEATRE
WAY, will be enabled to enjoy the de
luxe in entertainment —a veritable feast
of superlative screencraft with musical
accompaniment, prologue and interlude,
combining to make the UNION
THEATRE offering unassailable in the
realm of filmdom.
ÜBehind this institution stands the unex-
ampled service, furnished by Australasian
Films, Ltd., whose buying organisation
throughout the world guarantees a regular
supply of acknowledged successes.
‘iPatronise the theatre displaying the
UNION THEATRE SIGN, and you are
assured of real entertainment, presented
in a manner befitting your requirements.
UNION THEATRES ALL-AUSTRALIAN CIRCUIT, mu
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Tasmania and throughout the Commonwealth.
Managing Directors: Edwin Geaeh, W. A. Gibson, Stuart F. Doyle.
Member Motion Picture Advertisers’ Association of Australia.
w
m
<a^t
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
Hfr Majesty's “Yes, Uncle”
Criterion ' “Irene”
Palace “The Great Adventure”
tivoli “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyts Moving Pictures
Union Theatres. Moving Pictures
Town Hall “The End of the Road”
MELBOURNE £HOYVS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Pirates of Penzance”
Koval “The Boy”
King’s “LightnirP ”
Princess s “The Merry Wives of Windsor”
Playhouse “The Boss Cockie”
Tivoli “Maggie”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba ; Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
Making Arnold Bennett’s “The Great
Adventure” into a play lias been something
like cutting up a line estate into sections.
•All the scenes are bisected by a black-out
meant to indicate a lapse of time, and in
and out of the fragmentary scenes dart the
Maida Vale and Chelsea population. Even
the British aristocrat, introduced into the
very last act of all, you suspect of borrow-
ing a make-up from Golder’s Green. It is
not any fault of the actors: it is just that
Arnold Bennett builds so. The number of
characters is bewildering, and as nearly half
of them turn from doctor’s attendant to
journalist, or from valet to curate, the
looker-on has to keep his wits about him
as closely as Alice in Wonderland when she
went through the magic looking-glass. And
in spite of its kaleidoscopic nature, “The
Great _ Adventure” is a magic looking-glass
in which we see our own absurdities blink-
ing at us in the most impudent manner.
Graham Browne is Ham Carve, the great
artist who for the fun of the thing doesn’t
contradict the doctor when that red-lamp
mistakes Shawn, the dying valet, for his
master, and then, after allowing the
British public to bury him in West-
minster Abbey, buries himself in Putney with
Janet Cannot (Marie Tempest), a youngish
widow who has been in correspondence with
the dead Shawn, with the usual “view to
matrimony.” Although Ham Carve is
buried, the artist is still alive, and persists
in painting, and thus brings upon him and
Janet (1) his old Bond-street art-dealer,
(2) a millionaire American collector, (3
and 4) a pair of curate twins and (5) their
mother, Mrs. Shawn, who claims Ilam as
her absconded husband. The whole mix-up
is finally cleared, Arnold Bennett-wise, by
the disclosure of two moles, “one hairy and
one bald,” under the real Ilam’s soft collar.
* * * *
Marie Tempest’s Janet Cannot is a master-
piece, from the cretonne skirt in the first
scene (where she makes Ilam’s acquaint-
ance!, through the second act (where she
doesn’t want to coddle her reputation, but
there is no harm in keeping an eye on it),
into the third (where she pours out tea for the
curates, who hifve tracked their supposed
father to his sinful lair). Graham Browne
as the nervous, stammering, posturing Ilam
Carve, with his topsy-turvy attitude to life,
carries the other half of this long play on
his slim, shrugging shoulders. A final word
goes to Keppel Stephenson as bullying cousin
Cyrus Carve, and to Dorothy Hamilton in
a smallish part. The show is at Sydney
Palace.
There isn’t a refreshing air of novelty
about “Maggie” at Melbourne Tivoli, but it
“Maggie," at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Rex London as
Jim Blore.
will lighten the
gloom of unsuc-
cessful punters and
set rag-fanciers
yearning for better
things. The
clothes, indeed,
seem extravagant
for so thin a tale,
but their glitter,
color and fancy
are often welcome
when the princi-
pals are sagging
in the foreground.
No member of the
cast is sentenced
to hard labor.
Rex London has
the largest allot-
ment of language
as an ancient
night-outer, but he
makes the dialogue
a gymnasium for
his restless tongue
without giving
humorous sub-
stance to the char-
acter. Like
other baldheaded frivollers, he is tied to a
Puritan missus, in which role the usually
cheerful Marie Le Yarre advertises a per-
sonality soaked in vinegar. Hugh Steyne
tries hard to parody his former festive self,
but appears to be early oppressed with the
suspicion that a piece “adapted from the
French” has left out the French. William
Valentine, as his mild partner in wicked-
ness, hasn’t a gleam of the after-midnight
manner. A French girl, played by Juliet de
Gai, isn't exactly intoxicating; still she
isn’t in the partially-comatose state
of Some of her colleagues. She has a neat
ditty, “Fly Away, My 'Heart,” which
wouldn’t lose in piquancy with a larger voice
behind it. Vera Pearce, who takes the
name part, hungers for armfuls of man in a
series of songs delivered in a severely senti-
mental style. Vera’s seriousness evidently
comes from the responsibility of sustaining
the twin parts of a picture actress and a
draper’s assistant and becoming amorously
involved by the double. As the sales-lady
blewing £3OO in a week’s riot at a French
resort, she gets mistaken for the film god-
dess and is violently hugged by a noble
aviator who apparently finds both types
appealing to his taste. Gregory Stroud, as
the airman, reveals palpitation of the bari-
tone and wavy eyeballs when uttering his
first avowal of love, but he soon cools off
and leaves the expression of his passion to
SO PPy ballads. Styan doesn’t strike top
form as the noble hubby of the movie queen,
but then he is very briefly employed. Alfred
Majilton, who seems to have grbwn out of
his coat as the head of Marcel’s, ILtd., part-
ners Ivy Shilling in a couple |>f dances.
The first might be a Mexican version of the
tango decorated with the high kick and the
splits, but the second is a drawing-roomy
glide that allows the dancers some moments
for reflection. In both effusions Ivy’s ball-
bearing movehients are exceedingly graceful.
Allan Wilkie lessens the monotony of his
green hangings by presenting a compara-
tively handsome picture of the Forest of
Arden in his “As You Like It” at Melbourne
Princess’s. The scene provides room for the
Banished Duke and his retinue to move
about, and has a large foreground tree under
which Wilkie soliloquises while the Duke’s
party, bent head to head over the cooking-
pot, give an imitation of a Rugby scrum.
CHEFALO AND PALERMO AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Chefalo produces livestock and poultry.
WUkie is pretty fair as Jaques, but there
is nothing in his general behavior to miti-
gate the effect of his metallic voice almost
chanting the wisdom of the inactive philo-
sopher. On the other hand, Miss Hunter-
Watts is a fetching Rosalind who flits grace-
fully from soulful repose to lovesick viva-
city in her infatuation for Orlando. Chris
Olgar (Orlando) speaks his lines with a
passable assumption of the heroic style, but
he seems a bit slight to score an easy fall
at the expense of the hefty wrestler pictured
by Guy Hastings. Bob Inman (the Banished
Duke) gets his head well back to deliver his
message to the flies. Also he reminds one
of a fat liner whose cargo has shifted.
Augustus Neville, the usurping Duke, is dili-
gent in action but wanting in the gift
of impressive speech. Roy Workman’s Le
Beau wears a foolish hat and cloak
that practically double his nonentity. But
Jack Lennon is a pleasing Adam and Landoi-
an admirable Touchstone in all his aspects of
wit and folly. He shows great form in his
fooling with William and Audrey, who are
endowed with the broadest bovine character-
istics by Fred Patey and Mona Duval. Vivian
Edwards deeply mentions Oliver’s contrition
for his treatment of his brother. Vera St.
John is a young' and graceful Phoebe, and
Lorna Forbes. as Celia has a tendency to
spoil her diction with a tootly enunciation
now and again. Next Saturday Wilkie con-
cludes his season with “The Merry Wives
of Windsor.”
jJj £ >J;
The Mermaid Society made a brave effort
in producing the couple of “best plays”
advertised for Friday and Saturday nights
at the Melba Hall of Melbourne Uni. The
allusion of John Culver in “The Title” to
‘ female masters”—he meant “teachers,” he
explained—was appropriate, the actresses in
P la y s being the heaviest scorers
/Riders to the Sea,” by J. M. Synge, with
its Insh-peasant pathos, cast a gloom over
the audience, which even the vivid turkey-
red costumes of the tw r o peasant sisters
could not pierce. Nora, the emotional Celtic
colleen, was a clever characterisation in the
hands of Mrs. Gibson Youiig. The mother
Maurya, and Cath-
leen also got the
hang of the tongue,
so to speak. To
the lugubrious cli-
max of the tra-
gedy'—r e a c h e d
when the corpse
of Bartley, the
brother, and last
of the mother's
sons, comes in on
a d o o r—Arnold
Bennett’s version
of“T U « T 111 e”
was a blessed
relief. The com-
pany in entit.cu o
shake hands with
itself for an e.en
sort of perform-
ance, though the
Sampson Straight
of W. Devine was
a bit absent-minded
where his words
were concerned,
and the usual ama-
teur restlessness
prevailed s o m e-
times. The part
of Mrs. Culver
(Miss Irene Webb)
was as full of color
as the lady's hair,
and her hnal tri-
umph over “the
brute”—her war-
working husband—
seemed very natu-
ral. i„ T. liyde as
her respectable
spouse was aston-
“The Girl for the
Boy,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Lev White as
Jacqueline.
ishingly at his ease. Miss Margaret Maxwell
as Culver’s tyrannical typist brought a dim
memory of Florence Gleeson in voice and
looks. The quite good Hildegarde Culver of
Miss Dulcie Bland had a profesional touch
too- —some of Emelie Polini’s. And a very
artistic one it is.
* * *
“The Boss Cockie” is doing more than
holding, its own against adverse circumstances
at Melbourne Playhouse. To be quite
brutally candid, one laughs at Stanford’s
creation of the name part as one never
laughed at Bailey’s humorous exaggeration
of Dad in “On Our Selection.” In both
plays the weakness of the plot is a matter
of unimportance, whilst in “Boss Cockie’s”
case the simple truthfulness of the type
counts for much. The comedy should wear
well. It should live to be better played in
sundry places, and well spoken of even by
hypercritical persons who regard an occa-
sional old joke as a sin, instead of sound
business policy.
** * *
In a constructional sense “The Girl for the
Boy,” at Sydney Tivoli, is a gay French lady
in an English dress with American frills and
fixings. The plot and the humor are French,
the language is English, the accent and the
music are, for the most part, American. It
is an incongruous mixture, but there are com-
pensations, notably the charming incongruity
who answers to the name of Lee White.
This pleasing and friendly young woman acts
briskly, wears stunning gowns, smiles in the
most disconcerting situations and sings inept
but tuneful ragtime ditties through her
shapely nose. She is aided and abetted in a
capable fashion by her musical partner, Clay
Smith, who recently went over the top on
the Melbourne front; by George Gee as a
racketty artist and Victor Gouriet as a
chauffeur, each excellent in his way; by
Audrey Worth, a charming ingenue, and Kitty
Reidy, a Sydney girl who can both sing and
act; by Maurice-Nodin, John Western, Frank
Harvey, an effective chorus, handsome show-
girls and coryphees and other agreeable cir-
cumstances.
sfc
Sydney will have a chance to judge how
much Conan Doyle doesn’t know about the
spooks within the next fortnight. His "ap-
pearances at the Town Hall are fixed for the
15th, 17th and 20th.
** * *
There are disquieting rumors abroad that
“Irene” is failing at Sydney Criterion in
the attempt on the long-distance record estab-
lished by “Our Miss Gibbs.” S.P. bettors
who took 33 to one 12 weeks ago are
uneasy, and the J. and N. Tait stable is
ominously silent on the situation. On the
other hand many good judges claim that the
Musical Comedy Champion is still full of
running, and they are supporting the view
freely with their money.
Arthur Stigant is still preserving a magis-
trate s dignity with great difficulty in “The
Melbourne Royal. Also his wife
i 1 Morrison) is enduring her bed in a
gaol as well as her dressmaker can expect.
came back to Melbourne King's
on Saturday, and his gyrations round the
brandy bottle, whilst his Blue Ribbon re*
solutions battled with his thirst, convulsed
tne liagment of audience that considered him
ffiore entertaining than Henley. This time
M-irioh \r° J< i nes bas a nO W missuS.
Manoh Marcus Clarke, who doesn’t snivel so
comfortably as the old one or wear her grief
1 e a decoration. All the same, she pictures
curvimr t i e / athos 1 0f / commonplace female
cur\in g under a load of sorrow. Sidney
«w? i rep ace , s KenQ cth Brampton as the
shady iawyer who tries to swindle Mrs. Jones
and her daughter. Sidney is soothing and
(mmh«rfe d w S 7 Wh ® re Ke . nneth was direct and
emphatic, but he is no less deadly in effect
±°?ff er "1 ab ! e change is the appear-
ance of John Bedouin, vice John Beck in
tie Part of the sheriff. Bedouin is a larger
edition of Beck, but twangs his dialogue with
equal nasal effrontery.
The coming Gil. and Sul.*bill at Melbourne
m S - 7’ 11 be . The Pira tes of Penzance.”
jLne old joke gets its next revival on Satur-
aad a n'ght each of “lolanthe” and
Ihe Yeomen” will fill the interval.
* * # >;<
At Y\ irths’, last week, the tear stood in the
menagene s eye owing to the death of Lizzie.
Ihe pool girl had long been suspected of
measles and whooping-cough; also she was
S° ught rS. , be n a m i n ' ytr t 0 misplaced affec-
tion But her demise was not thought
iu e Hf t 0 Ca m,. a ' gloom over Cup week in
hit K° 0 Urne ' °r < ? or c , ,f even ts at the show
has been considerably altered this week, and
the rider of the Cup winner has received a
costly whip amidst the roars of the lions
and the caustic comments of Andale’s
monkeys. v
** $ *
Mix guarantees to make even nigger
wool stand up like a hat brush in “The Dare-
H° yt & Melbourne house this week.
Mix has the contract of saving a damsei
from a bandit, but the act of salvage is un-
important beside his irrelevant feats of
daring Munroe Salisbury is more subdued
in method, but equally impressive in effect,
as the sightless hero
of “The Blinding
Trail!” At the
Majestic Jack Lon-
don’s “Burning
Daylight” brings
Mitchell Lewis into
play as a red-
blooded moralist
who argues peace
and righteousness
with a beltful of
Colts. In th e
second half of the
programme Alice
Joyce provides
ample grounds for
a divorce between
“Dollars and the
Woman,” which
are joined together
for a man’s unhappi-
ness. At the Brit-
annia Norma Tal-
madge is express-
ing movie devotion
for a high-class
sculptor in “The
Woman Gives.”
“Maggie,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
A. H. Majilton as
Marcel.
The week’s film at the Melba is “Whispers,”
wherein a new man, Charles Gerard, appears
to be leading a double wife.
Adelaide shows are feeling the approach of
summer. Diana Wilson, with O’Hara and
Esmelton, before leaving the Royal attended
in costume at the Palais Royal one night, and
helped Eslick to build up funds for the de-
serving charity Minda. “Possum Paddock,”
of which Fred Macdonald is the brightest
star, has had a good week at the Prince of
Wales. The rest is pictures, and “Our
Selection” drama at the Pav.
An Adelaide Art-show :
The annual exhibition of the Adelaide Camera Club
at the Society of Arts’ Gallery is severely competi-
tive. The judges put aside all sensitiveness. One
section is for beginners, another open. About half
the collection is adjudged as “up to exhibition
standard,” a certain dozen are declared the best,
and one of these gets the champion award. This
one is “A Slanting Ray,” by P. H. Williams, who
regains the championship held by Alfred Wilkinson
for three years past; it shows a narrow Sydney
street with misty sunlight breaking across, and the
G.P.O. tower at the back. The champion pictures
of the last seven years are hung on the opposite wall
for. comparison.


s(v\\
“Where the
Good Hats Are.”
Save
on
Your Hat.
E
us reason it out!
Isn’t it logic to suppose that your Hat would cost
you less if you bought it at the Mills? You cannot
buy singly, of course, but you can save a powerful
lot of money by doing the next best—shopping at
Murdoch’s.
Murdoch’s buy direct for you!
T here are no wholesalers, agents or jobbers to add
their quota of profit to the cost, and this big saving
is reflected on Murdoch’s price tickets.
This Hat is a case in point. Fashioned in Fine Fur Felt of
excellent quality, pleasingly conformable to every shape you
desire. Cool and light on the head. Fitted with soft, fjweat-
proof lining, and finished with Band and Side Bow. In smart
medium and dark Brown Shades. This Hat cannot be pro-
cured anywhere under 10/6.
MURDOCH'S PRICE,
156.
This Stylish N£glig6 Model can be sent direct to
your door without costing you a penny more. Simply
send your order to DESK R. State size. This is
a “Special.” Do not delay.
MURDOCH’S
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney,
The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.
M l ':I',,''i 1 ',,''i, 1
Inlaid
Tortoiseshell
TORTOISESHELL- WARE always maintains its
original beauty, which, with its durability,
eminently fits it for gift purposes. Drummonds’
have just received from London a remarkably
choice selection, comprising all the articles neces-
sary to a well-equipped boudoir, with the addition
of such pieces as clocks, jewel-cases, etc., all
possessing a dignity of design, rich in simplicity,
perfect in color and of superfine workmanship. The
delightful effect of these articles is further
heightened by inlays of silver, bringing out the
full beauty of each and giving it an exclusiveness
which must appeal to everyone with an appreci-
ation of quality and artistic effect.
W&m. Brummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
I(MNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
416
EACii
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
fk Records ••
10=INCH ,
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
46
.EACH.
Some Splendid COLUMBIA RECORDS
From No. 48 Supplement—Now on Sale.
10-inch PURPLE LABEL, Single-sided, 6/- each.
X.243— “Songs My Mother Taught Me?’ (Dvorak) Hulda Lasliainska, soprano
X.244— “Orientate’’ (Cul) Toschtt Seidel
12-inch PURPLE LABEL, Single-sided, 8/6 each.
7237 — “Annie Laurie/’ with Orchestra Elsa Stnalia, soprano
7180 “Voci di Primavera’’ (Voices of Spring). (Strauss) Bancieiitos, soprano
7236 —Pagliaccl: “Vestl la glubba” (On with the Motley) 11. Lazaro, tenor
7238 — “Indian Lament in G Minor” (Dvorak-Kreisler) Toscha Seidel
12-inch LIGHT BLUE LABEL, Double-sided, 8/6 each,
Li. 1360
Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony in B minor. Parts 1 and 2.
Sir Henry J. Wood and Ills Famous Orchestra
L. 1361
J Schubert's Unfinished Symphony in B minor, Parts 3 and 4.
| Sir Henry J. Wood and his Famous Orchestra
L.. 1366
Li. 1338
I Sonata in A minor (Schumann, Op. 105), Part 1: Mol to Appassionato. _
{ Part 2: Allegretto Daisy Kennedy and Hamilton Harty
L.. 1363
Mozart Quintette in G minor, (a) Allegro, in Two Parts. . .
London String Quartet, and Alfred Hobday, second viola
£9SI T
I Symphonie Espagnole. Part 1 : Allegro non troppo . . Albert Sammons, violin
(Part 3: “Andante” Albert Sammons, violin
Full Lists and Catalogues are obtainable at most high-class Music Stores, or
from the undermentioned firms: —
SIDNEI, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Werthelm Pty ,
Ltd.. 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King & King, Ltd., Queen Street.
M W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Lt<.., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Loyal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.— Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. NiZ.-— Bannaty ne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton. Ltd., 343 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd. J
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
■ .
1
£
Inland
quick and efficient distribution of goods by
* Motor Lorry, increases business and helps to
lower the cost of living. Reliability is the keynote
of the Leyland.” During the War there were some
10,000 Leylands on Active Service. Many of these
are back again in Commercial life and running as
sweetly as ever.
0C
LEYLAND LOGIC.
Monthly shipments are being
made to Sydney so that long
waiting is < bviated. You can
purchase direct from stock
for ordinary requirements.
We supply either Steam or
Petrol driven Lorries for all
purposes of Commerce. Our
special three and five ton
Australian Export mo els
( Petrol) are built specially
to conform to the require-
ments of the Country and
will go wherever wheels can
take them.
LEYLANW MOTORS LTD,,
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street, SYDNEY.
“Leyland Lorries for Liquid Loads." Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Pty.. Ltd., High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.


r
3 O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
fit
DT
Swift & Company I„td.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
BOSTOCK’S —the Ideal Liquid Dressing
for White Shoeware.
A perfect white—and does not rub off. It is
quickly applied, dries almost instantly, and makes
the shoe# look like new.
the sign
j PERFECTION
Bostock’s
■1 ..
Violo
Polishes,
./ . V
LOOK THIS WAY !
l
i
FOR MEN OF ACTION
WE READILY RECOMMEN D
%
as*
msam
Sand in Color. Twill in Quality
“ Santwill. " is a new two - pocket
Work Shirt. Light medium weight
and sand colored—a new color that
will not show the dust, in a cotton
quality that will outwear two of most
other Shirts. You'll like its honest,
broad-shouldered comfort, cut full, not
“skimped.” The toughest Working
Shirt made.
3 FOR
9/6 each , or 27/-
Carriage Paid Everywhere !
Pike Brothers
L I MIT ED
Townsville Brisbane Toowoomba
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
"Nella”: Of all the Poverty Pointers I
ever met George Buller was the most dyna-
mic hostler. Years ago he used to streak
through the country as a one-man show,
conjuring, fiddling, reciting, hypnotising,
comic singing and the like. He travelled
"The Girl for the
Boy,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Victor Gouriet as
Chauffeur Parkinson.
single - handed,
drove his own cara-
van, was his own
advance agent, and
did remarkably
well. On arrival
at a “stand” he
used to parade the
town dressed as a
mandarin, and
sporting an out-
size in Japanese
umbrellas. Next
he bobbed up in a
silk ’topper as
Alfred Dampier’s
London representa-
tive when the old
man took “Robbery
Under Arms” to
the Biggest Smoke.,
When I went bush-
whacking with
I) amp i e r - ome
years later Bidler
was our Pooh Ran :
he attended to all
the advance, pub-
licity and trans-
port arrangements;
he was business
manager/ h o use
manager and trea-
surer ; he played
the violin in the
orchestra, and
dashed behind in-
termittently to do
anything from
First Gravedigger to Trooper O'Hara. And
being an ex-schoolmaster he taught young
Fred Dampier in his spare time.
The native comp, employed by the.
Rangoon Gazette went fanti when the
Annette Kellerman film, “Qpeen of the
Sea,” arrived there. Beginning with a
shout in large caps, that “Good wine needs
no Bosh,” he proceeded to give Annette’s
measurements. Some of them -
Height, oft. 4 Jin. ; neck, 12ft. 6in; waist, 26ft.
2in. ; hips, 37ft. Sin. ; shoulders, 36ft. 6in.
The point was stressed that she wore “but a
yard of chiffon.” which almost amounted to
obtaining money by false pretences from the
dusky pofnographist who paid his half-rupee
on the assumption that the printed figures as
ter the lady’s acreage were correct.
“Old Pot”: I was fortunate enough to see
the lirst production of “The Mikado” at the
Sydney. Royal in 1885, and also the revival
in the same theatre with the original Savoy
Yum Yum, .Leonora Braham, in the cast.
Her husband, Duncan Young, a mediocre
tenor, was Nanki Poo. Miss Braham brought
to Sydney all Gilbert’s “business,” which
included a shuffling walk that Nellie Stewart
did not use. There was no difference in the
"business” of Ivoko, still played by Vernon,
so I must assume that his own. seen at
rehearsal, could not be improved on. Nellie
Stewart had a better voice than Leonora
Braham, and as an actress was easily first.
Duncan Young was not in the same class as
Frank Boyle, the Sydney original of Nanki
Poo, and with the exception of the replaee-
•ment of Walter Woodfield bv Harry Benham
as Pooh Bah and of Benham by Tom Grundy
as Pish Tush, the revival cast was much the
same as that of ’B5. The other originals were *
Pitti Sing, Ida Osborne; The Mikado, John
Forde (well and strong still, and looking
more like a superannuated parson than an
actor): Peep 80, Lillie Forde; Ivatisha,
Alice Barnett. Vernon was a comedian and
not a clown in the Lord High Executioner
part: he eschewed the ways of the mounte-
bank, so often walked by the firm’s comedy-
merchants. Forde was, perhaps, the best
Mikado we’ve had. He could sing well
enough, and he played the Emperor with a
soft simper, almost a mincing form of speech.
Leonora Braham was an expert in the use of
the fan, and no Yum Yum has since mani-
pulated it as she did. On the other hand we
have never had a Pitti Sing who improved
on Ida Osborne’s first playing of it.
“'Harrison O.” returns to his Jeff-and-
Muttons:—
Just before leaving Australia I penned a few
well-chosen remarks in Poverty Point suggesting
that the alleged “art” of screen acting, about
which so much bunkum is talked and written,
had no claim to the label, and that the sooner its
exponents were recognised as mere artisans, unon-
titled to the blithersome adulation that is poured
over them, the better. A batch of Bulletins
leceived in London contains sundry solemn
protests against my shocking irreverence to which it
is useless to attempt to reply at this distance of
time and space, but I would like to bring under
notice some observations which have just been made
by Thomas Burke, in “Why I Loathe the Kinema.”
One of the stories', “The Chink and the Child,” in
Burke’s much discussed “Limehouse Nights,” was
bought for kinema purposes, “produced” by D. W.
Griffiths, and filmed as “Broken Blossoms”—a
Garvice-like title calculated to appeal to the men-
tality of the great film public. Anyone who has
read Burke’s brilliant story and has seen what
Griffiths and his artisans have made of it will
understand why the author is annoyed, despite
the fact that “Broken Blossoms” has been the most
successful film of the year in the U.S." and is now
booming in England. Burke says of the film trade:
Theie ,s no art in this business pf cameras and
clap-trap. It- is made tjy artifice and run by skilled
mechanics. The acting of its much boosted ‘stars’ is
a parcel of inane tricks, portentous grimacing, and
club-footed movements. When one remembers the
Russian Bullet and the exquisite ‘L’Enfant Prodigue,’
where every gesture says something, one is appalled
at the work of the simpering acrobats who are
boosted as artists.” Burke also makes the point:
“If the picture-play were truly a new art it would
achieve its effects solely through its own medium;
and not one word of explanatory ‘sub-title’ would 1 e
necessary.” Australians who remember how Gentle
was able to tell stories by movements of her feet and
arms will appreciate how inadequate is the repertoire
of stencilled facial contortions and mechanical ges-
ticulations of the average screen performer. Olie is
constantly left wondering whether they are attempt-
ing to express hatred or affection until the banal,
necessary sub-title” is supplied to relieve the
horrible suspense.
■jy f What is the use of “Steele
Rudd (B- 21/<lO/’2O) excusing either Bert
Bailey or On Our Selection” bv maintain-
mg thaC the people- in the play are true
Darling Downs types? It is a libel on the
Downs. Ive played all the townships,
small and big, on the Downs, and I’ve lived
m the homes of people there, but always I
have failed to meet Bert Bailey’s “true Aus-
tralian types.” Where do these “On Our
Selection” folk hang out? In Wyreema
Warwick, Toowoomba or where? If they
never existed, as I am inclined to believe.
Bert Bailey ought to mention the fact on
his programmes, in justice to Australians.
“While the Billy Boils” is to be filmed.
The prologue will show Lawson telling his
mates the story of Bob Brothers by the
camp fire.
“E.T.” : An old pantomime friend returns
to Australia for the J.C.W. “annual”—Edwin
at home as Old Woman or
Did Man, Brett this time will plav the King
—and no doubt the ace with it. ‘ The show
will be called “Humpty Dumpty,” and the
Hirm is importing a new Dame for it —
Albert Le Fre, one of a good old British
family or pantomimists who “do the ’alls”
during the year, and at Christmas-time
always find a home in the “legitimate”
theatres. Like his relative Lupino, Le Fre
is an all-round performer, and knows the
game from G to E.
V r“, a ,. B!i if : Rooking at Allan Wilkie’s
Malvolio the other night, I thought the
actor owed a lot of his success to his hard-
working band. Every time he glode into
view with his absurd retinue writhing in
uncontrollable parody, the band accompanied
his strut in a measure that broke into a
blare as each foot came dow r n. About half
a houseful of college flappers giggled appro-
val of the actor, little dreaming probably
that the effect was mostly due to the orches-
tra. Wilkie’s Malvolio seems to me essen-
tially the pompous automaton who must
move to music—the sort of potentate who
ought to have a squad of menials Unrolling
a red carpet in front of him.
Peter : Howard Vernon, who gets a
benefit at Melbourne Majesty’s next week,
when he will play his old part of Ko-Ivo,
appeared as the Grand Inquisitor in the first
Australian production of “The Gondoliers"
at Melbourne Princess’s on October 25, IS9O.
The rest of the cast was notable, and in-
cluded Will Elton (Duke of Plaza-Toro).
Charles Ryley (Giuseppe Palmieri), Maggie
Moore (Duchess of Plaza-Toro), Florence
Young (Casilda), Flora Graupner (Gian-
THE PRIM A DONNA.
FIRST CHORUS LADY : “ Besides, you get
uglier every day!”
SECOND CHORUS LADY: “Another thing I
can do that you can't!”
etfa) and Ida Osborne (Tessa), this part
being subsequently handled b.v Vi Varley.
Incidentally, this was Flo Young’s first
engagement at the Princess’s —a theatre
that heard her little in after years.
“S.S.” r The performance of ‘‘Twelfth
Night” put up unexpectedly in the Alec
Theatre years ago by -a casual American
actress, Janet Waldorf, remains unbeaten
so far as Melbourne records go. The Toby
Belch was Atbolwood, who supplied a splen-
did sample of the bard’s broadest humor.
It was a rollicking performance which opened
wide many eyes to the possibilities of the
more riotous Shakspearean comedies as food
for the gods, if only given in the spirit in
which they were written—one of happy
farce, with all the stops out. The Alec per-
formance was a financial success, but we have
looked in vain for a reappearance of the
Yank manageress on the Australian horizon.
“Xorbell” : Allan Wilkie says that the rea-
son the “Comedy of Errors” has not been
done in Australia for 40 years or so is that
modern producers find it difficult to obtain
Antipholi and Dromios with the necessary
physical resemblance. Setting aside the fact
that Wm. F. Hawtrey, to name only one
modern producer, had no difficulty in finding
three mummers (Ross, Gregan McMahon
and O. P. Reggie) sufficiently alike to play
‘‘Tom. Dick and Harry” successfully, the
•doubling” in the present ‘‘Comedy of
Errors” is admirable. It is practically impos-
sible to tell one Dromio from the other. The
Age suggested in a superior tone that the
“comedy” is Shakspeare’s worst effort and un-
suited tot modern presentation. For my part I
found it immensely diverting, and I am un-
modern enough to prefer Shakspeare to “The
Worst Woman’s Wishbone” with a Cockney
twang, or “The Double-crossed Crook’s Cock-
tail” with a nasal accent. Wilkie is a whale
for work. Chatting in his dressing-room as
to the possibilities of a permanent Shaks-
pearean co. in Australia, he remarked: “I
see nothing to stop its success. I won’t
again play a Shakspearean season of weekly
changes, but I’ll alter the bill every night,
as the grand-opera people do. Say ‘Hamlet’
on Monday, ‘Twelfth Night' on Tuesday,
‘Macbeth’ on, Wednesday, ‘Merry Wives’ on
Thursday. ‘Romeo and Juliet’ on Friday and
‘The Merchant’ on Saturday. Once the co.
gets the repertoire down, it’s easy enough.”
“Glen Huntley”: Sydney Carroll, the
London Sunday Times dramatic critic, was
recently sent to look at the Berlin theatres,
and since his return has been having hys-
terics. Of “Der Weibsteufel,” by Karl
Sehonherr, he wwites :— ■
For audacity of thought, skill in treatment, and
force of emotionalism it surpassed anything I have
seen of a similar character.... It rouses the very
devil in us. For it shows the devil in woman....!
found sleep impossible the night I had seen it. The
diabolic side of sex had come up triumphant, invin-
cible. All the latent lust, the eroticism, the brutal
desires of man clamor for expression. It is vain
to fight against such an electric current of femininity.
V ith the middle-aged gentleman's sleepless
nighty in memory, it is comforting to read
that “such a sexually disturbing play would
never be permitted in London.” Of the Hun
actress, Leonie Duval, who played the chief
part, Carroll writes: “She was certainly a
superb creature physically and mentally. 1
doubt even with our array of talented ladies
if we have a single one who would abandon
herself so luxuriantly and frantically to the
amotistic and aphrodisiacal in common clay.”
One does not know whether to remark
“Garn!” or to ring up for the lire brigade.
“Stargazer”: The trouble with Randolph
Bedford's drama is the trouble with pretty-
well all Australian dramas-Mt isn’t a drama.
It takes a few
eccentric charac-
ters and proceeds
to make fun of
them. The result
is an entertain-
ment but not a
drama. In Bed-
ford's case, as was
to be expected, the
fun is good, some
of it yery good,
and a lot of truth
looks in ; but when
all is done the feel-
in g remains un-
shaken that the
Australian play is
s't i 11 unwritten ;
and with the con-
viction comes the
belief that it never
will be wri 11 eri
while our writers
are obsessed b y
the necessity o f
crowding in
accepted carica-
ture-types on the
assumption that a sufficiency of these ren-
ders a sane display of human actions and
motives superfluous.
“T.D.M.”: The staging of the musical
play, “The Boy,” reminds one of the great
success which its unmusical original, “The
Magistrate,” achieved in the ’eighties.
George W. Anson, recently deceased, gave
Sydney playgoers a sample of his art as
Mr. I’osket and prepared them for the won-
derful studies he afterwards sketched with
Brough and Boucicault. The Cis Farring-
don was Mans Phillips, who replaced Dion
Boucicault, the original in Melbourne,
These two were the only men-actors Aus-
tralia has seen who could play boy parts
perfectly. The Sydney cast was great; one
member of it. George Bryant, enthuses
every time it is mentioned to him. G. S,
Titheridge was Colonel Lukin ; Philip Beck,
Captain Vale; Jennie Watt Tanner, Mrs.
Bosket; Maggie Knight, Charlotte Yerrin-
der; Billy Seagrave, Wyke; Herbert Flem-
ming. Mr. Bullamy, and Emma Chambers
was Poppet, a love-stricken domestic. James
Wiseman, a character-actor of more than
ordinary ability, was Mr. Wermington. He
was once called on to replace J. R. Gre-
ville in “The Crimes of Baris,” and gave a
more artistic study, too. i
“Snell” : He was a small, long-haired man
with bulging eyes and thick lips, looking like
a shaved Bolshevik, with a smattering of
the Tartar. He sat in a first-class compart-
ment on the South Melbourne line eating
dates. He ate with great enthusiasm, priz-
ing the coagulated fruit apart with his thick
fingers and plastering it into his face with
a wholesome disregard for nuts, chance
leaves and miscellaneous fragments. Sud-
denly he ceased, choked a moment, and
then with a violent cough ejected a nut
with such eclat that it flew in the lap of
a lady opposite. The lady picked up the
nut, and in disgust held it between the tips
of her fingers as though to return it to its
original owner. The date-hog looked up and
grunted. “Keeb id, matame,” he said. “Keeb
id, und haf id mounded. I am H , der
famous pianisd.”
“A. Jane”: When will the Yank scenario
writer get busy on the feebly-penned yarns
of Dickens, Thackeray and other literary
boobs? He might also touch-up Shakspeare,
and re-write portions of the Bible. A recent
movie advertisement, of Stevenson’s “Jekyll
and Hyde” shows that R.L.S. has had the
corners knocked off his work. Jekyll “tears
himself from the arms of his sweetheart.”
and then, as Hyde, cavorts in a cabaret with
some dancing vampire.- Probably there is no
protection from this sort of ghoulishness. The
only protest the lover of literature can make
is to avoid picture-shows. If he goes to them
he isn’t allowed to throw even half-bricks.
THE MONK. AND THE WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Miss Connie Ediss, the well-known actress, is the
first prominent person in England to undergo Dr.
Voranoff’s treatment with the thyroid glands of
monkeys. Describing the operation, she * said she
felt as though a red-hot poker had been run under
the skin. ‘I scamper in the fields,’ she added, ‘and
want to climb trees like a monkey.’ ’’—The Acje.
The darling of the gods may rise
To certain modest heights of fame
If she knows how to advertise,
Apd climb, and climb, to win a name.
But when a monkey’s gland’s ingrafted,
The artist to new heights is wafted.
At once is Gwladys filled with fire,
And clambers with consummate ease ;
She nimbly scales Fame’s topmost ■ spire—
She conquers Fortune’s tallest trees.
Art’s altitude hers to attain
When Jacko’s loss is Gwladys’ gain.
And Egbert grows more versatile
When grafted with a thyroid gland;
He’ll ape sage, seer or imbecile,
Or tread a simian saraband;
He’ll play prince, peasant, panto gorgon,
Or caper to a barrel-organ.
Ah, Voranoff, we owe our thanks,
Our unmixed gratitude to you!
For now the mummer justly ranks
With the attractions of the Zoo.
An apish figure now he cuts
And takes his place .among the knuts.
VICTORIA.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


f.
:
« v
Hwwmw*' ■
OTgSPP? / ‘ <> :
MWW ‘ > ■ ' *■" »■ ' r
■¥•*..:
-■ >■*
V. •;’
■
( V.^
Wm
j I >v:
:• ■•
■; "
y<<
>: : , X- : t-m
w&m
wmwmm
\<: •
,
■
t ■■ i
m
*4i
?:•••:
Hi
;■; \i
mm
*
.
,/V, ' ' ■
Mr.’mM t§§
V.'&lS
> «s
g|r| <%l
«iW|:SIP
:• '
* ■
’ .
• 1.
• j
SlSSHSilf'
:V.':
||§gjf-i§
:
Some twelve months ago we announced
the marketing of a totally new proposi-
tion to Australasian Bowlers, viz., the
HI
□
r bow,
We stated that its advantages were such
that it was easily the finest Bowl for
playing—for durability-and that it was
the most perfect and truest-playing Bowl
made. The first announcement sold the
whole of our stocks, and since then,
bowlers have been literally “Waiting on
the Mat” endeavouring to obtain a set.
Bowlers who have secured this improved
bowl are emphatic that it’s superior to any
other obtainable and that it effects con-
siderable improvement in one’s play.
The demand for the bowl is such that
there are no doubts as to its advantages
—its superiority.
Having greatly extended our plant for
the manufacture of these Rubber Bowls
we are pleased to announce that we shall
from now on be in a position to supply
orders in standard sizes, viz., sn,5 n , siV\
and 54 V Every Bowl is standard, and
No. 3 Bias-full unless otherwise specified.
it’s solid rubber throughout—as hard and fine-grained as ebony—with a surface like glass. It is
absolutely impervious to moisture, heat or cold-a great advantage over the wooden or composition
bovA It will not chip, crack or shrink, or alter its shape or weight in any respect, and is perfectly
balanced, as there is no subsequent “ loading ” needed. PRICE, £5 10s. per set of- 4 You can
now obtain “ Dunlop ” Bowls from any of our Depots, or through any Sports Depot or Agent.
ALL STATES DUNLOP 'RUBBER. CO. AND N.Z.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES &tO.. PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNfI?
t&CU&
LEWIS fewnlTTY MAKERS
If Worry or Overwork is Taking too Heavy a Toll try
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating.
O-ji)
(<IL
SISTERE
A.B
••
(Registered.)
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace. Perth, Agents for West Australia.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., 85 Currie Street, Adelaide, Agents for South Australia,
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
There never was a prettier finish to a
Melbourne Stakes, always one of the classiest events
of the season, than Greenstead and Eurythmic sup-
plied last Saturday. Round into the straight came
the Epsom winner, with the Caulfield Cup winner,
almost at full tension, threatening to wear him down.
As soon as Eurythmic liad crept up to the pace-
maker an easy victory was taken, for granted, and
the old cry of “All over—here comes the favorite! ”
was shouted by a large majority. Then, for a
moment, the issue seemed very much in doubt. It
wasn’t all over with Greenstead. . The big fellow
was travelling almost as beautifully as the favorite,
and the creep ahead Jooked as though it had stopped.
The poetry of motion got a striking illustration in
the quiet efforts of those two battlers, while Poitrel
was unobtrusively gaining ground in the rear. At
the finish the rarely-beaten champion from W.A.
won by a hard-earned thieequarfers of a length, with
Poitrel two lengths further away.
As far as punters were concerned the V.R.C.. rac-
ing on Derby Day was like the tip-cat that served
as a dangerous toy in the childhood of the modern
old man. The fat part—the two popular wins—came
in the middle of the day, but the prizes at either
end of the programme went to rank outsiders. Two
mighty lean ends, and a plump centrepiece. The
odd thing about the Derby was that Erasmus could
be backed down to as short a price as Salitros,
whilst Syce Knight, a respectable performer, went
out at double the odds offered against Strathredole.
Why ? The easing-up of Salitros in his track work
had restored him to his Sydney Derby form, or
something like it. Malurys ran in accordance with
allegations that the colt- was not expected to do much
better, and Erasmus doubtless suffered a bit by
getting scrimmaged early in the struggle. But there
never was any serious question, before or after the
Derby, that Salitros had the strongest pretensions to
start first favorite and win in good style. The
know-alls who belittled his victory with “Only a lot
of rubbish to beat” were babbling at random. The
field was up to average Derby class in appearance,
and the blessed time-test mattered just as little as
usual. At Randwick didn’t Salitros win in record
time?
Of the awful surprises which sent so many people
away feeling sorry for themselves the least surprising
was Antarian’s win in the Maribyrnong. The young
son of Anton had a fair chance on paper. Salatis
had some lost ground to make up (which might
have happened to. anything) but not enough stamina
to do it with, and Furious —who finished second—
was a penalised filly. The odds, as it happened, were
unexpectedly long against Antarian. They were
positively generous, whereas backers of Luteplayer
deserved more than eight to one for the Hotham
Handicap, and many were kept off him by the mean
price. As for Ethiopian’s 50 to one for the Cantala,
it was due to the supposition that the good animal
had broken down, and was disenjoying his last out-
ing.
Gallant old Poitrel. with lOst. on his back, gal-
loped down the Flemington straight winner of the
1920 Melbourne Cup from the erratic Erasmus and
the Victorian mare Queen Comedy. It was the great-
est performance registered in the two-mile race since
Carbine won the Cup with lOst. 51b., and it stamps
the chestnut son of St. Alwyne and Poinard as one
of the finest stayers in the history of the Australian
turf.
* * * *
Frank Reynolds, founder of the Tocal
Stud and one of the oldest members of the Warrigal
Club, died in Sydney on Monday. He bred Kenna-
quhair and talked not so long ago of seeing him win
■ the Melbourne Cup, but Latterly he knew that he
would never see another Cup. He owned, amongst
other great horses, The Barb, who might be called
the original Australian sire, and Goldsbrough, who
sired for him the dams of such classic performers as
Abercorn, Trenton and Wallace. Quarter of a cen-
tury ago Bruce Lowe developed his theory of the
“figure system” of breeding, and Frank Reynolds
was one of the warmest adherents of the idea.
* * * *
Gmistrelli, the Italian sportsman with a
fancy for English racing, is just dead at a great
age. His brilliant filly Signorina was a terrible dis-
appointment at the stud for years. At the age of
about 16 she was sent to the first-class Rock Sand,
but on arrival took an unmistakable fancy to the
second-class Chaleureux, and signified the same in
the usual manner. “Let her have he); own way,”
said the owner; and the result was Signorinetta,
winner in 1908 of that unusual double, the English
Derby and Oaks.
* * * *
In this year’s King’s, at Anzac Range,
Liverpool (N.S.W.), no competitor knew more than
another of the intricacies of the wind, mirage or
light. The first stage (the Prince of Wales) saw
the breakdown of the cracks, and at the short range
of 300 yards, none of the 915 competitors notched
the possible. At 500 yards the shooting improved,
and 21 put all shots into the optic, but at 600 yards
only two got home. The stage ended with J. Searls
(Vie.) leading with 102 (out of 105), and F. T.
Marsden (Sydney) and F. Ilehn (Belmore) next with
101 a-piece. Jack Face (Sydney) had amassed 96.
In tlie second stage (The Simmons) Col. Richardson
(Britain) and Stockbridge (Tamworth) got the pos-
sible at 600yds. At 700 yards D. McCalley alone
landed all 10 in the “bull.” L. Kendall and Col.
Richardson (each with 94) led here. A howling
wind played accompaniment in the final stage (The
Le Maitre —15 shots at 800yds. and 900yds.), in
which G. R. Davis scored 73 out of 75 (a magpie
and 14 bulls). Conditions were still awful, with a
nasty cross-wind, at the last target (900yds.), and
half a dozen leaders looked to have the issue between
them. Then the leaders failed, and the outside
chances began to pull up, Jack Face among them.
A fine 72 at 800yds. left him with 73 (out of 75)
to win. He planked the first two shots in the bull,
then came a four, 11 bulls’-cyes followed, and a final
tour gave him the required total. W. H. Porritt
(Lithgow) followed with 326.
Two or three ladies shot throughout the meeting,
despite heat, flies and dust. Miss Mitchell was
accorded the honor of firing the opening- shot in the
King’s, and Mrs. McGregor sent along the opening
bullet in the second stage of the big event. Miss
Mitchell’s effort gathered £2 (297 out of 365).*
* * * *
Eustace Headlam is once more open golf
champion of the Speck. In the semi-final he beat N.
E. Lockhart by 8 up and 7 to play—about the
severest licking the Vic. left-hander has ever had
—and in the final he trounced Hugh Smith by the
same margin. Altogether Headlam played 22 holes
in 87, or one under fours—which is good going even
on a featureless course like Rosny. Headlam is a
left-hander with an open, fairly wide stance and
flat swing, and hits a vety long ball, Like his
younger brother Felix (a scratch golfer) he has
represented Tassy at cricket.
* * * *
Jimmy Hill had heard about the punching
ability of Arthur Wyns long before he entered the
Sydney Stadium ring with the Belgian champion on
Saturday night. His plan of campaign was to out-
box the foreigner and so cause him to waste his
violence on the desert air. These tactics succeeded
—for two rounds. During that period Arthur was
peppered freely with light rights and lefts, his only
response being a patient smile and an occasional
wicked-looking right cross which Hill neatly evaded.
Early in the third upheaval Hill failed to evade this
blow, and when he came to most of the audience was
on its way home. The winning stroke was a mast-
erly affair, short, quick as the darting tongue of a
serpent, and with a mule-like kick in it. There were
four prelims., one a rousing event between heavy-
•weights which ended in grief and gore in the second
rpund.
* * * *
All previous fight figures are reduced to
paltry dimensions by comparison with those of the
coming Dempsey-Carpentier
meeting. Dempsey is to
be guaranteed £60,000
and the Frenchman
£40,000, and their share
of the moving-picture re-
turns should work out at
as much again. No reason-
able person, outside France,
believes that the Gallic
cruiserweight, who never
has stood up to punishment,
will stay the distance with
a fast, tearing fighter like
Dempsey, who in addjtion
to being years younger will
enter the ring about 2st.
heavier. The execution is
fixed to occur in Cuba earlv
next year, and the way will
then be open for a Demp-
sey-Wills match. Harry
Wills is said by his sup-
porters to be another
Johnson, and, judging by
the discreet manner in
which Dempsey has side-
stepped him of late, there
is something in the claim.
The champion can hardly
draw the color-line, being
a half-breed himself.
S. O. WOOD,
veterinary surgeon
to the V.R.C.
The English cricketers could only make a
draw of it in their one-day match against W A
ISurse, a novice who took 5 for 82, and Christian'
who got 3 for 90, troubled them somewhat, and
Makepeace, Hendren and Fender were the only
bats who got going. Their fast bowler Howell was
dangerous, and Parkin bowled a fairish ball but
rather overdid the variety stunt.
* * " * .
In the Sydney trial match between teams
skippered by Collins and Macartney everybody had a
strike. Gregory pegged away at a uniform pace be-
tween fast and medium, and while keeping a good
length was not difficult, although Macartney, Tosser
and Asher were his victims. Mailey pitched his
googlies accurately on the slow wicket, and Griffiths,
who was making his first appearance, got two for
72. Macartney’s showing with the bat was veri-
solid, while Andrews’s skill all round the wicket
electrified everybody. The ex-Digger Oldfield showed
style and ability behind the sticks in addition to
notching 76 in front of them.
* * * .
The selectors have chosen 15 men to prac-
tise for the match N.S.W. v. England beginning on
November 19. Oldfield’s qualifications as a batsman
enabled the selectors to choose a bowler pure and
simple, and so Carter stands down. The four to be
omitted from the final selection will obviously be
Kippax, Bogle, Bardsley and Punch, and the residue
will constitute what is virtually a test-match team.
• * * *
The outstanding player in Sydney grade
cricket on Saturday was Forssberg. For Waverley
against Norths he scored 81, and, doing the “hat-
trick” twice, took seven for 54. Yet Norths made
a draw of it. Jenkins, the consistent Sydney bat,
made a very correct 42 against Balmain. In this
match *the enterprising hitting of Wheatley and
Storey nearly gave ’Main a win. In Gordon’s
second attempt against Glebe Ilosking, a batsman
of the Bardsley type, riiade a patient 76 (n. 0.).
Glebe failed before Kellett’s bowling (5 for 31)
on a treacherous wicket. ’Varsity socked the C.
Cumberland bowling unmercifully, and yet another
student batsman emerged—Best, 169 (n. 0.). R.
Bardsley and Flattery gave free-hitting displays in
addition. O’Keefe, whose consistency merits recog-
nition, played attractively for Paddington in their
draw against Middle Harbor. Ward Prentice (121),
Barnes (80) and li. B. Docker (66), of Wests,
treated onlookers to a high-class batting display
against Petersham. Their effort recalled the days
when N. Sydney had practically an inter state team.
HENDREN, OF THE ENGLISH XI.
A fine 154 by Hartkopf for N’cote against
Richmond was the only event in Melbourne District
cricket on Saturday. Hartkopf got one six and 11
fours and hit with great judgment all round the
wicket. Northcote are now 2;?8 for 7. In St. Hilda’s
236 for 8 wickets against South, Hotchin (48) and
Ponsford (49) were the principal smiters. Essen-
don (120) are already beaten on the first hits by
’Wood (1 for 147). Keating of the Magpies, who
is 80 n. 0., also captured three ’Don wickets for 47.
Melbourne, without Armstrong and Ransford, who
were playing against South Aus., totalled 122 against
East, who are now well ahead with two for 129.
McNaughton, with 5 for 42, was East’s star bowler,
whilst old Pete McAlister showed bright batting
with a faultless 66. Prahran v. Carlton had few
bright spots. The shop suburb took all the after-
noon to make 158 for 8 wickets, the highest score
being a languid 29 by Thomson. The North-
University argument was almost as mournful. North
reached 166 and the students have lost one for 25.
* * * *
South Australia’s effort in the opening
Sheffield Shield match at Adelaide was mediocre, and
only for the late effort of Whitty would have been a dis-
aster. Of the 290 on the score-sheet, Whitty (81),
C. E. Pellew (68) and Don Steele (63 n. 0.) accounted
for 212 of the total; and sundries were 21. Victoria’s
batsmen then got busy and didn’t let up till 639
were piled up—R. L. Park (152), Ryder (127),
Ransford (93), Lampard (65) and Armstrong (53).
The innings lasted Bhr. I7min. and showed con-
clusively that the S. Aus. bowling is sadly short-
weight. In its second try S. Aus. opened weakly and
at that point interest in the match fizzled right out.
Norman Gregg will be in the N.S.W. tenuis
team for M.L. owing to H. S. Utz’s defection. The
Sydney colt showed fine form at the recent Metro-
politan championships at Strathfield,. and with S. H.
Henderson ran Poekley and Neil to 4-6, 6-2, 6-2 in
the doubles final.
* * * *
“Snake”: “Horrie” Rice, who won the
Strathfield (N.S.W.) championship the other day,
must take a front place among the world’s tennis
veterans. This is the eleventh time he has scored at
Strathfield, > which means that he has three of the
challenge cups that are handed to every competitor
who gets the verdict three times. He has been
singles and doubles champion of Australasia and
singles champion of every Australian State and
Maoriland. He has twice figured in Australia’s Davis
Cup team, and when he helps Ma against Victoria
this month he will be making his 50th appearance
in inter-State tennis.
* » * *
Second rigs were the rule amongst the 18-
footers of Sydney Sailing Club on Saturday. Twelve
were dispatched in the final. The punch to Shark
Beach saw Onda, Arline and Desdemona making
splendid weather of it.
Tli e ove r-canvased
Keriki whipped in.
Easing sheets for the
run to Shark Island,
ballooners were the
rule, whilst Rear-Com-
luodore Firth skied a
spinnaker. Onda was
the first to throw the
boom across at Shark
Island with Arline
next. The leading
craft looked a sure
winner when her spin-
naker was blown to
ribbons, and Arline,
sailing great guns, and
with spinnaker draw-
ing like a mustard
poultice, went on to
win by 'l7sec. from
Onda, which was
30sec. ahead of A. G.
Roberts’ Desdemona.
P. G. H.
FENDER, of
the English XI
For the Fairfax Cup (Sydney Yacht
Squadron), over the Manly-Shark Island-Pinchgut-Pile
Light course, op Saturday, five deep-keelers faced the
starter. A black nor’-easter gave tlrem plenty of
thrash to the village mark, and from there a chance
to display their dexterity in kite setting and fleetness
off the wind. Brockhoff’s charge, Scotia, cleared out
from the limit mark (16m.) and was never headed.
The handicapper apart, much of the credit was due
to the splendid work of the winner’s for’ard hands,
who sent up their extras like tradesmen.
* * * *
P. M. Pitt cleaned up the athletic cham-
pionships of Duntroon Military College for the
second consecutive year last week by winning
100yds. (10 3-10 sec), 220yds. (23 9-10 sec—
. 440yds. (54 2-ssec. —record), high jump
(6ft. Oin), and broad jump (21ft. sin
Pitt is also the star Rugby'player of the college. He
may figure in the N.S.W. championships at Sydney
early next year.
* * * #
As an outcome of last week’s confab at
Sydney—l 6 sporting organisations were represented
—the Amateur Sporting Federation takes control in
future throughout N. S. Wales. Other decisions come
to were that (1) amateurs and professionals can com-
pete or play together without infringement of status;
(2) a professional in one branch of sport is a pro-
fessional in all.
* * * *
Thirteen finished out of the 50 who started
in the 100-mile cycle race from Essendon to Ivyneton
(Vie.) last week. Vie Browne (10sec.) won over a
gruelling course in 6hr. 27min. 40sec—Which was also
the fastest time on the day. Ernie Tamme was second
from scratch in 6hr. 28min. 41sec., but he had the
rotten luck to hit the roadway hard and often.
* * * *
C. P. Smith, chief of staff of Melbourne
Arous, who has taken to trotting regularly with the
East Melbourne harriers this year, after laying off
for about 20 years, proved that he can still put
up a good run by winning the club’s mile handi-
cap the other day. True, he started off 190 yards,
but he finished strong and with a bit up his sleeve.
His elder son was in the race, but didn’t have a
show.
* * * *
J. R. Hooper, >the Australasian billiards
champion, has sailed for the Fog to try to win
the English championship, and the good wishes of
all billiard players go with him. During the recent
A.J.C. carnival he had enough luck in picking
winners to see him to Tilbury Docks and back.
* * » »
The maddening winds and turns of coun-
try roads in England have driven wealthy motorists
to instal a moving map by the driver’s wheel. It is
a broad tape, with plan of any given road, four inches
to the mile. Worked in conjunction with a
speedometer, it is supposed to wind into view every
coming corner or other feature of the road, just
before they are due to appear in reality. It sounds
a costly fad.
* * » *
The British Isles have established an
inter-country bowls tournament. It w r as .held this
year at Glasgow, in horrible weather —three wet
days, with thunderstorms. Wales rather unex-
pectedly won, beating England and Ireland easily,
but Scotland only by a single point, 100 to 99.
* * * *
The V.R.C. is doing something really
worth while. Through the Education Department
it is offering 32 scholarships for 1921, and for each
of the following six years to children of fallen
Diggers. A scholarship gives the winner four years’
tuition at a district high school, or a technical
school, or any secondary or registered school, plus
from £lO to £5O per annum for exes.
•» * * *
“Caveman”: The fishing isn’t exhausted
yet along the coast of N. S. Wales. The best size'
of bream, perch, whiting, trevally, tarwhine and
tailer are still waiting to be caught off the long
surf beaches north of Newcastle. The bream are
usually three pounders, and fight like young sharks.
The w'hiting are the very big chaps you sometimes
notice in the Dago’s shop. Any bait is good enough,
but you don’t need to worry—the sand in the surf-
wash is crowded with pippies. The best way to go
after the fish is with a firm rod and a large reel. I
tried throwing my line by hand from the sand, but
the distance is too great. Surf fishing is .no lazy
man’s holiday game, though a large tailer or bream
may lead you a dance for several hundred yards.
South of Ballina there is a smooth beach 12 miles
long, and although big bream and tailer arfe there
in, I should think, millions, they are never disturbed
by more than six or seven people at one time.
THE SPIRITUAL SPIELERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Conan Doyle admits that all spirits are not good.
Indeed bad spirits are numerous, and employ them-
selves deluding and betraying the honest seeker.”
It was a strange, sepulchral thing;
It came to me by night.
Upon the wall it seemed to cling,
A fungus weirdly white.
But presently I saw it smile.
The wheedling grimace grew;
It took an air of elfish guile,
And then from out its ghostly tile
Three playing cards it drew.
These on a ghostly board it set—-
What could the goblin mean ?
It said: “A level pound I bet
You cannot pick the queen!”
The cards again and yet again
Upon the board it tossed.
It seemed just folly to abstain.
I picked the queen. The card was plain.
My good new note was lost!
The thing took human shape to me.
It said in whispers then
It had an uncle in Fiji,
Who gave to worthy men;
If I could show but fifty quid
I’d saved in earning bread,
’Twould double that amount. I did.
Then through the wall the vision slid,
And with my fifty fled.
Bush friends who come the Cup to view,
Dodge ghosts you do not know.
You’re threatened with a danger new—-
Be careful how you go.
Heed not the - matchbox spirit. He
Will do you for your oof.
Bide not with spooks who’d have you see
The little thimble and the pea—
It is the latest spoof!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Keep the Body in Tune
SB
Your, health and strength depend upon exercise. Exercise is the
judicious movement of the organs of the body, so that they will
NOT become flabby through want of use. When an organ becomes
flabby it cannot carry out its functions in a natural way. It goes
from bad to worse. Eventually it is a source of never-ending
annoyance —then chronic ill-health.
Judicious exercise is the key of Health. It cuts out monotony,
accomplishes permanent results quickly, takes up very little time
—every movement goes right to the spot.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The exercises you receive will be most suited to your indivi-
dual needs just as the particulars you furnish tell me you
require.
Write your name and- address across this advertisement
and send it to me with three stamps, and I will send you
a copy of my interesting booklet, “Health and Strength
from Self-Culture.”
Those desiring to avail themselves of personal instruction at
my institute are invited to call and have a chat with me
about their needs, when I shall be happy to show them over
my modern and perfectly-appointed establishment.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Australia's Loading Physloal Culture Institute,
362 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
The Palace Hotel, Perth, W.A.
*2
A
■Hi s
litH
To be Sold by Public Auction in Perth, W.A.
on Tuesday, December 7, 1920.
This is the leading hotel of Western Australia’s progressive capital.
All particulars and illustrated descriptive pamphlet from
LEARMONTH DUFFY & CO., Auctioneers,
87 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
m
m
mm
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World"
MAKES OLD RAZORS
SHAVE LIKE NEW.
00.
CO
so
A sharp Razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself, yet
how to keep it sharp,
with tough beards has
always been the great
obstacle, for the average
man does not know how to set cr
sharpen a Razor. The simple yet
expedient PERFORATED HON I',
solves the question permanently;
it provides a lifetime of easy
shaving for a small outlay—only
5/-, or post free 5/6. TRY THE
PERFORATED HONE ; if it
doesn’t make your razor shave to
vour satisfaction return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 5/6 from
The Perforated Hone Co,,
Dept. 11—125 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. [6
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
priced catalogues now ready
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPUCATION TO
THE SECRETARY.
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0..
SYDNEY.
a
for Indigestion.
RYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
TRADE
MARK.
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre=War Standard.
IttUMMSKIHi
Ttffc LIMIT OF VALUE IN “REAL” PANAMAS.
Considering that it is absolutely a GENUINE PANAMA, smartly
fashioned and well made, there is no gainsaying the exceptional
value represented in our “L.S.” special at 21/-
Light. cool and comfortable and distinctly stylish, the “L.S.
Special will completely meet your present needs.
We have other “Real” Panamas at prices up to 45/- We’re
sure to have YOUR size, with the width of brim and the height
of crown you require.
CALL OR WRITE- WE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Specialists in Quality Wear for Men.”
244-54 Flinders Street Melbourne.


"Aertex” means Summer Coolness
‘jg.CLdrg
L7~
X
QC
<
3*
i-ONOO'j,
This Label on all Garments
100 Tiny Air Cells to every
inch of mesh.
Allow your skin to breathe and you
will feel cool and fresh on the hot-
test day. The ennervation and ennui
of Summer are largely due to the
pores of the skin not getting a chance
to absorb enough fresh air."Aertex”
Cellular Shirting permits a regular
flow of air to circulate round the
body, thus it is kept at its own nat-
ural level of temperature whatever
outside conditions may be.
For general underwear for men, women and chil-
dren, particularly for sports service it is ideal. Easily
laundered. 30 ins. Price, yard., 3/11,4/d, 5/6,7/6
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
Pay Carriage.
Box 497, G.P.O.
inCT 4 C /
INSTITUTE V
Dept. A.
ROLLED
GOLD,
£l/1/-
%
Complete
with
Case,
£l/1/-
We do not cater for any diseases
of the eyes. We simply correct
failing sight, which sets in at
about the age of 40.
Write for particulars and
our self-measurement form,
which will be sent on re-
ceipt of a post-card to
No money asked.
Pay post office
when spectacles
are delivered. I
Box 702 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants. Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL. —Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS. —Loco Type Tubular. 20-30
H.P.
ENGlNES. —Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGlNES. —Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING. —Up to 44in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR. —S te a m-d riven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE. —Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL. 11
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
Derby Day a fussy /lurry of capricious
weather and a crowded Hurry of expensive
women. Dresses were beautiful, but half of
them were covered up jealously in race-coats.
Race-coats came back in an avalanche—silk
and c-loth cape-wraps of /treat elaboration.
.Some few' lucky mortals have the cape-wrap
in fur. Mrs. Tony Hordern’s was sables:
n roused a wind-storm of envious sighs The
Government House party was mostly
Pill f/• ■ rhe ( r < '- and Lad y Forster had Mrs.
fn/J,. 1 apt „V, x Lord Wfby and his
lady, and Mrs. \\ heatley in their party
Governor Irvine and his wife and the severe
•Miss Masson were in the special pen. All
went on to Henley after the big race.
Sassiety made an early day of it, and there
were crowds of lunch parties. The Governor-
Conan Doyle and his wife to
tc • w’- a su th< ; Allster Clarkes and the Fred
hairbairns and their daughter Joan. Harry
Chisholm, of the A.J.C. committee, was an-
other guest, and Captain Miller, of H.M.A S
Australia.
;1V' S - Pat Osborne was over. The Oriental
fixed up her luncheon party for the meeting.
Mamma Madden went out early with the
hampers in the car. Mrs. Osborne
ciessed in a neat plump little navy-blue
chess Ihere was a rush on the neat navy-
silk dress. Mrs. Wittenoom from Westralia
the !l d T ( ' v y as , Mrs - Rit( ' hie from
the Apple Island. And Mrs. Bolger, who
was Mrs. Major Cunningham, came from her
new honeymoon in navy and paddy green
done in harem stylb. Mavis Gordon Chirn-
side loomed large and fair from under a big
droopy hat—the latest craze is to have a
hat like grandmother wore in the rose garden
of a morning Mrs. Hitchcock, from Recen-
tly (N.S.W.), wore black and white. Mrs.
..eh from Bananaland swirled a rose-pink
limng to her big black cloud cloak. Mrs
Austin had putty pleats on her bulldog-
colored top. The Chester Manifolds were
out with a big luncheon-party from Camper-
down. Mrs. Dyer from Westralia wore the
tashionable black.
The luncheon crowds finished up the day
with belated tea at Henley, which was a
vast swarm of people whose arrangements
seemed to be mostly upset.
The Governor-General and his lady have
the usual Race Ball and garden-party billed
tor the week. G.-G.’s come and G.-G.’s go,
but the same old Cup Ball and garden-party
go on forever. What a chance offers to
vary the programme! The Pacific Islands are
in fashion at present. Now, big people in
Papua and roundabout buy a “sing sing’’
when they want to provide entertainment.
Ihe chiefs are paid to give a big song-an’-
dance. Lovely brown maidens and fierce
warriors do steps that would be a godsend
to jazzers mad for new turns. Instead of
asking Billy Hughes to dance the lancers,
a really bright and daring Governor could
put him against the Opposition in a war-
dance. There is a debil-debil jazz that is
quite as tedious and long and mysterious ip
its feints and moves as any political spar-
ring. Two chiefs cover their faces with
death-masks and their bodies with barrel-
like crinolines, swamped in elaborate
feathers. Their dominant personalities rise
above like Christmas-trees—the branches
full of birds-of-paradise'. The two dance for
an interminable time to the thud-thud of
tom-toms. There are depths of meaning in
it to the initiated, but to tjie outsider the
business is perplexing. Coming politics
could be described by these dancers, -and the
guests could guess what was in the wind.
If Watt hadn’t made his explanation in the
House, what a chance now for him and
the. Prime Minister!
G.-G. Forster and his lady are either pain-
fully starchy or Refreshingly retiring. On
the president’s hoffse-boat at Henley his Ex.
just stood and chatted with his host from God
Save to God ’Save, while her Ex. sat and
conversed with Mrs. Fairbairn. Gent.-lielps
Pitt-Rivers and Norman i stood in fearful
loneliness on the butskirts. They look a
nice, unaffected pair, who don’t carry too
much swank.
There is something very like a boycott of
high-priced goods in the chiffon stores this
race season. Dress silks at three guineas the
yard; evening shoes at seven guineas the
pair; plain silk stockings at three guineas—
well, probably the boycott is forced by long-
suffering husbands. So sales have been dead-
slow, instead of proceeding at the usual gallop
just before gee-gee time. Haughty madames
of the dressmaking rooms, who used to snort
at an order booked later than two months
before the race-rush, have descended to
blandishments to entice women into their
fitting parlors even so late as near the end
of October. Of course the Prince racket
had some effect on the situation. Women
"went dippy,” a.s they owned, over Prince
frocks, and the thunder over the bill has not
yet died away. A Sassiety woman suffers,
as a rule, from recurrent dress-fever—the
woman, that is, who has credit at the stores.
Then comes the cold breakfast-time light on
the bills that hubby opens with his egg and
morning paper. Darling must then wait
awhile for her next attack of fever.
Merv Ilidgcock married her very young
Dr. Austin Oust, of Casterton, on October
ffS. The bride is the daughter of Mrs. Hidg-
coek and the late Charles Ilidgcock, of
I’eveiisey station (X.S.W.), whose heavily-
gilded will has just been proved; the
’groom the son of the William Ousts
of Camberwell. Papa recently bought him
a practice at Casterton, and some of the
trousseau hats and frocks will make even
the frocky Western District take notice.
Merv is the prettiest little flaxen-haired
girl, with big brown eyes.
The wedding was at Scots’ Church, and
Dr. Marshall’s son married them. An after-
noon party of some hundreds drank cham-
pagne at the Oriental Hotel: the motors of
the iNaicest blocked Col!ins-street between
the kirk and the hotel, and were side-
tracked in rows down Russell-street. The
bride was wax-moulded into a simple little
dress of precious lace. Young Mrs. Gove
in blue-purple and Miss Oust in pink helped
with the glove. Mrs. Ilidgcock. who shed her
widow’s black for the occasion, was a slim
vision in a Parisian sheath of stoekingette
silk of a neutral tint, and her picture-hat
was of ripe apricot color. A dinner-party
and. jazz followed on the afternoon cele-
brations. The pair cut off for a honey-week
at Lome before going straight to Casterton.
The Baby Health Assoc, opened a new
wing at its South Melbourne centre on Fri-
day. Lady Forster did the old,- old trick in
navy blue ideated charmeuse and a pale tint
of haughtiness; and her large, shady hat was
covered with feathers in two shades of blue.
She was supported by pretty Lady Digby
in navy-blue tailorings, looking so young
that it was hard to believe she had a little
Pamela at home. Dr. Constance Ellis made
a sensible speech, and then the new wing
was open for inspection. Down in the
weighing-in room a youthful father and
mother nursed twins.
When the Mermaid Play Society took an-
other plunge on Friday night at the Melba
Hall, Lady Forster, Mrs. Pitt-Rivers and
gent-help Norman had front pews. The
ladies of the party were snuggled up in
black cloaks with grey capes, and Professors
Berry and Archie Strong threw them bits
of light conversation during the intervals.
Mrs. Theyre Weigall and artist-daughter
Joan, Mrs. Boyce Gibson, pretty Mary Curtin
(with raspberry tinted chiffon in her hair)
and Fritz Hart were amongst those who also
safe.
The Allardyces of the Apple Isle are
spending the racing season with the vice-regal
Irvines. Much discussed aide Wentworth
went to bachelor’s .quarters: he is to be
groomsman at the Roma Clarke wedding.
The William Bowies—she Was Cath Aus-
tin got back last week from a golfing honey-
moon at Flinders, and have tracked to Maori-
land. Hubby has fo keep'an eye on the meat
trade in the Dominion. The bride’s little
sister Hope, who was too ill to wear her
bridesmaid’s chiffonery at the wedding, has
crawled off the sick list, much to the relief
of her fond relatives.
“Maggie,” the new show at the Tivoli, is
delightfully dressed. A glittering snake of
girl gliding into the last act starts one
imagining the size of the hole the divinities
caused in the Mclntosh cashbox. One un-
dulating maiden is arrayed in a golden sheath
gown, the skirt forgetting its sex about the
knee-lme and coming to a curious masculine
conclusion. Another charmer, with an out-
spread tail effect and an Oriental head-dress,
seems a combination of peacock and
pagoda. Still another, with a brilliant scaly
corsage, might have been a beetle dipped in
violet ink. The chorus, practically exhaust-
ing the possibilities of color, makes the prin-
cipals appear comparatively drab. -Juliet de
Gai’s pale biscuit walking-suit, edged with
fur, deserves honorable mention beside the
sparkling blue cloak revealed by Ivy Shilling
in her second dance. But Ivy looks her
best in her first Mexican outbreak, wherein
she -wears a white knickerbockered livery
offering glimpses of a striking vermilion
lining.
Miss Hunter-Watts at the Princess’s is a
tasteful frocker. In her opening scene as
Rosalind she wears a gown of silver falling
in straight lines from the bust and decorated
back and front with panels of flowered silk.
The dainty outfit is completed with a smart
beaded cap on her golden curls. As a youth in
Arden she discloses slim russet-brown legs in
long dove-colored boots. None of the other
ladies are garbed so charmingly, but Allan
Wilkie (Jacques), Robert Inman (the Ban-
ished Duke) and Vivian Edwards (Oliver)
must be held responsible if a shortage of vel-
vet is presently reported.
Donalda Ayer, who sang in “The Passing
Show'’ early in the year, was married in
London on September 5 to a Frenchman,
wean Arnal. The lucky man visited Aus-
tralia some years ago and served throughout
the war as a lieutenant in Foch’s army. He
has a weakness for polo and tennis.
I ntil Lee White disappeared from the
Cfist of “The Girl for the Boy” for a few
nights in Melbourne she had never missed
an advertised performance in her life. Thus
Kitty Reidy, who stepped into her shoes, is
the first understudy to take Lee’s place in
a big show. Kitty, a pretty blonde, is a
Sydney Conservatorium girl. Mclntosh
picked her out of the chorus and gave her
a contract the first time he heard her sing.
Young Dick Casey is just beginning to
take nourishment again after parting with
his appendix. Dicky, who got away with
the Anzacs as staff chauffeur, returned home
a major, with a. Military Cross.
The Lauchie Mackinnons began a lively
Derby Sunday with a big luncheon party
and ended it with a large dinner frivol, a
tennis party being sandwiched in between.
Kls.v Treweek’d fine soprano has won a
host of admirers in Australia. Capturing an
A.N.A. scholarship, she went to the Uni.
Conservatorium, where Agnes Jansen helped
her voice to the color and structure it now
possesses. The bril-
liant songstress has
done nobly in con-
cert work, and has
bad a place in the
front line when the
bouquets were dis-
tributed' in local
operatic perform-
ances. She was a
member of the recent
J.O.W. and Rigo
opera cos., scoring
heavily in dark, tem-
pestuous characters
of the Lola (“Caval-
leria”) and Carmen
order. She has never
had a chance to do
her Carmen in the
best company, but
rtiose who have seen tlie impersonation de-
clare that she cToesn t lack the necessary
cayenne. Likewise she sings Marguerite
in “Faust” with great effect, and treasures
the memory of one appearance that earned
a diploma from Melba. Just now she is
giving excerpts from opera on a tour with
her huband, Fred Collier, and early next
year she will pack for a run to London.
What Adelaide’s been up to:
The Onkaparinga Racing Club had no luck in its
attempt to run a Spring as well as an Autumn meet-
ing. Drenching rain cut the attendance down from
a hoped-for 15,00(1 to 4000 or so, and turned motor-
paddock and grand-stand enclosures into oozing bogs.
The few women who went aimed -at nothing smarter
than macs, and goloshes. Still, as the committee
points out, October is usually the pick of the months
in the hills, and it isn’t every year that embarrasses
us with a 50-inch rainfall.
Sportsmistress Amy Carver, of the Melbourne
P.L.C., is to pitch her tent in this State next year
as director of the Y.W.C.A.’s new physical and
recreation department. She came from New South
and added two years’ teaching in England to her
Melbourne experience.
Prohibition has dipped its finger into the affairs
of the Prince Alfred Old Boys, and a ballot has been
forced on the question whether only “non-intoxicants
shall be available at the Association’s annual dinner.”
If the wets have it the next proposal will be that
the intoxicants shall be rationed. What, have the
Old Boys been doing at their yearly feast?
Old Burra’s population is somewhere about 2000,
with 1000 more: outside. It sent more than 600 men
to the war, with a score or so of nurses, chaplains,
etc., contributed £6OOO to war funds, built the
big central hall of the Cheer-up Hut, took up
£119,000 in war bonds, and had a £2O cheque for
every one of its men who returned wounded. Its
latest achievement is to throw in £B7O for the
mission to seamen in three days.
Died at Goolwa Elizabeth Johnstone, widow of the
Captain GeOrge Johnstone who was one of the first
navigators of the Murray. She had been here since
’5B and was 89.
The members of the City Council planned a
dinner to the Mayor the other evening, but sudden
sickness arrived and he telephoned regrets. Then
civic persuasion induced the Mayoress (she used
to be the Hackett dame, of Perth) to take his place,
and she carried on, even responding to the toast of
her husband’s health. It is the first time this village
lias seen one woman as the guest of honor at a
men’s dinner.
Mrs. Hayward is the wife of a South Aus. surgeon-
colonel who was at Harefield hospital in England
during the war. After a visit to the C. J. Dennises
in their bushland home in Victoria she has dedicated
to them a little book of verse, describing in detail
everything about the place, down to the late magpie,
who “took to paint, then took the count.” The
style varies from the Bloke’s own to sheer Gilbert,
and sometimes makes the reader wonder that the
writer is not known outside Adelaide.
People seem to settle down in new homes
nowadays for the pure joy of getting out
of them and their worries. The Everard
Brownes, after buying and beautifying the
Rutter Clarkes’ Topralt palace, have now-
sold it to the Askin Foster widow.
Mrs. Alee Landale hostessed a Derby* tea
at Aroona, at which the coming week’s bride.
Roma Clarke, appeared in a hat red enough
for a Yarra-banker. She will wear her
bridal veil on the 9th November.
The medical Hoopers christened a new
South Yarra ballroom with a large jazz party.
The doctor and his wife, who have no chicks
of their own. cherish a niece of Mrs.
Hooper’s, Lydie Heymann—she came from
Switzerland some years back to replace an
elder niece, who had got homesick.
Frank Brady, who was dux of Xavier a
few years ago, was hurt so badly in a col-
lision between the motor-car he was in and
a jinker at Brighton that he died, last week,
lie had a narrow squeak some time ago, hav-
ing been nearly drowned the day before lie
was due for a Federal Public Service exam.
He got through the exam., though, entered
the Defence Department, and was on active
service during the war. Latterly he was in
business with Tom Burke, his brother-in-law.
Harry Gullett. who was a war correspond-
ent in Palestine, has been made Director
of Immigration in Australia at £TSOO a
year. Hughes, who has given him the job,
say.s that Gullett will stop in the Common-
wealth and “co-ordinate the work of tin 1
States.” The mouth of the permanent ser r
vice is watering at the salary ; still it knows
how uncertain is the tenure of any job that
upon the favor of the Prime Minis-
ter.
Melbourne feels very sad about Florrie
Young ; for she has for years held a unique
place in the affections of the people on both
sides of the footlights.
Lucy Locke, daughter of Mrs. A. A. Locke,
of Armadale, is beginning to think out her
trousseau. She is engaged to marry Frank
Scott, only son of squatter Robert Scott, of
Wandook, Deniliquin.
Captain Kilby, who used to be A.D.C. to
Gov.-Gen. Ferguson, and did his bit in the
R.F.C. during the war, is quitting the
Lancers to grow cocoanuts up Rabaul way.
Jam-magnate Jones has started a back-
to-the-land movement for his eldest son. He
has bought for the youth, who is about 21,
the Lisdillon property on the east coast
of the Speck. Young Jones has been learn-
ing to farm down that way, and incidentally
has engaged himself to marry Nelly Salmon,
his instructor's daughter.
Gilbey, of Christchurch (M.L.), and his
wife are in Melbourne after an exciting trip
into Papua. They are interested in a rub-
ber syndicate there, and their manager, one
Hammit, seems to be a sort of empire-
builder. lie fixed up an engineering scheme
to drain a swamp on the plantation. It was
so successful that it also drained a huge
acreage of Government country round about,
and the cut channel has turned into a new
V'iver —in that land of rivers. Judge Murray
looked them up as they passed through Port
Moresby to say “Thank you.” Murray is
particularly interested in interior work.
The Germans concentrated on the coasts;
Murray is encouraging inland work all the
time.
By that same token, Port. Moresby is a
dreary place, with bungalows and business
buildings baking under corrugated-iron roofs.
The high, windy hill of “Port” wears a gigan-
tic hat of corrugated-iron to catch the
elusive rain; for Moresby has an extraor-
dinary habit (for the islands) of indulging
in droughts. Lately the people have actu-
ally been on a water ration : they send the
inevitable “boy” for their precious allow-
ance of two gallons, and then juggle with the
dregs that have not been spilt on the way
or mopped up. by other natives. Fresh-water
baths are things of memory. One woman
who “came south” for a spell was asked
what she thought of the drapers’ shops this
Spring. “Drapers’!” she exclaimed. “I
never looked at them; I’ve been pressing
my nose up against the lovely butchers’ shop-
windows; they are a picture!” But the
people at Port Moresby will not always be
in the same pickle. A road is being slowly
built some 40 miles up into the lovely hill-
country at the back. Residents with enough
money and a car apiece will have their bun-
galows in that part. They are all waiting
for “the road.”
Stella Power is finding plenty of work in
England. After finishing a round of concerts
at watering-places she was booked for a re-
appearance with Landon' Ronald’s orchestra
at the Albert Hall. She had an offer to sing
in Christiana, Bergen and other cities in
Norway, but owing to English engagements
couldn’t leave for the fjords until the end of
the year.


_ t . .. £KM&BP S3 '*& JT wg Vy T® 7
■ >
■;■*• . ■,
. 1
7 £f :
m
:l S
* "■•
*
; ,m * •■ ;
#
UUfcßH* J jPWt VW - <{ v **• v
—
>-V-". , ' : V .il
■
3®
• •
■
' /
II
a
s
■
/
An 3 .'••■
:' *■
, ..• v .
§§lll
ill
v.
;*!
■■ 7/
. /•/
*6
'."**• ''
Yi
l
A
11
f[ <Sf {l
y-y.
K
i
C*
1 •; ns ""VT
"la^iiiisiiaiiiiiiipi
.iN
: :
m
W
:• •.,:;
*3
;/.■•: -3
'•
*
!f
m
M
w*.
i—
r-
mMmmama
$&%&
BBSS®
*w
m
■, .•
SJfe JLj
.
\ »s; !
k: m,
:
:■:. -1
<%
v v ■": r?;'
C ■
* i v
i : 3,, . •
£>/>
MR
%
tH
: '.V ' V
i
zu
MWfIS H|hH
HHM
■
'
Nag
:
IfoaEffi '' @B<jfe ''^, a f*?" ;X.„i 7’rrr i(
m
s--v-:
>'iv ; I
■.7;;g
I
I :
• ’
■ :i. - 1
‘ , ife*. —-.—
&imMmi
■H
|f|> : |*
**&*
FORK IN HEPPLEWHITE.
KNIFE IN SHERATON.
A gift of COMMUNITY PLATE (Knives, Forks,
Spoons) expresses the sentiment of the giver what-
ever may he the motive.
If intended as a beautiful present, the briefest exam-
ination will show that Community Plate (Knives,
Forks, Spoons) exactly fulfils the obligation.
If intended as a useful present, Community Plate
(Knives, Forks, Spoons) will prove the wisdom of the
choice thrice daily for fifty years—a term of service
that is guaranteed.
Four beautiful period designs are offered Adam,
Patrician, Sheraton and Hepplewhite. These patterns
are exclusive —they are never duplicated in lines of
different name or different quality.
The time-defying service of COMMUNITY PLATE
(Knives, Forks, Spoons) is secured by a heavy
plating over all. The pieces are further reinforced
by visible discs of pure silver where wear is severest.
Obtainable in single pieces or in complete services.
MAKERS ALSO OF
ONEIDA. COMMUNITY RELIANCE PLATE, guaranteed for twenty-five years
ONEIDA COMMUNITY PAR PLATE, guaranteed for ten years
ON EXHIBITION AND SALE AT LEADING JEWELLERS AND SHOPS
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1848.
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY


CHAMPAGNE <
CHAMPAGNE
QfcirlesHcidsiedt
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
Sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and
offers the tourist alto-
gether delightful ac-
commodation.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
I tninnmiiiiii
ALL THAT IS GRACE
can be found as you gaze on Milady She is
not bizarre, nor is she slavishly conventional
m her attire.
■ b t e U * aid she ** adorned to a pleas-
ing subtlety. If you question her as to her
charm, at first she may be evasive, but in
the end she will confess it is the never-
failing art of Shave.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Vanity
Fair Silk
Gloves—the popular selec-
tion of women who demand
the best the market affords,
or who consider REAL
economy.
Guaranteed for double
wear, you get longer service
from Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves, or replacement free.
Your draper should have
them. Ask for them.
V.F. 24
Xhnity^faiv
L (EMUSTBa
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
Jones
CAtalogue
The pall is settled this week over Sydney
as heavily as it was hung about the dead
Absalom —who, too, was a high-flier in his
day. All those who dance and make merry
and drink at midnight out of a high-heeled
slipper are off to Melbourne to enjoy the
horses and the G.-G.’s, who, by the way,
ought to have a loose penny or two to
flutter on their fancy after a recent deal in
real estate in very dear old England. The
younger set are off, Doreen Hordern, Winnie
Rouse, Alison MacCormick, Doris Vale.
Red Crossers, too, have gone down for a
bean-o; Marjorie Mort and Miss Egan
x??P ero . ne eac h other, and horsewoman Una
Clift will be there. The Walter Marks and
Moses families are recorded in the book of
Exodus; and the woman who knows every-
thing says that the 0.8.E.’s are to be kept
under lock and key, on the same principle
that makes a perfectly-respectable wife slip
oft her wedding-ring when she is off for a
week-end.
Talking of a week-end and larks recalls
the family that went across to Mosinan for a
month s change Not wanting to bother
about opening a butcher’s account for their
visit to the North Side, they decided to lay in
a store of chooks, so went to the markets and
bought 30. The morning after the pur-
chase they woke up to find all the fowls but
two had deserted. They forthwith sent a
message broadcast saying if any neighbor
found a strange chook in the fowl-run, would
she be so good as to hand it over? Then
neighbors, apologies on their tongues and
birds under their arms, arrived singly and in
pairs upon the verandah. When the family
had chained up Jp chooks, it called the
count; but, roast, boiled and en casserole,
birds basked upon the dinner-table for the
whole of the Mosman sojourn and 16 days
after the return home.
Last Thursday evening the Women Paint-
ers. were “at home” among their own Ex-
hibition. Nearly all the brush-and-palette
ladies, trailing scarves, were at the party;
but little Olive Birkenhead from Beecroft
was studiously at work at her Art Society’s
class, and well-dressed Mrs. Rix Nicholas
was away in Melbourne. Under the elec-
trics Betty Solomons’s modern and sinuous
modelling took on an added charm. Dora
Wilson’s Ballerina looked as though she
might blow a loss to you at any moment;
Mrs. Hedley Parsons, just returned from a
feast of apple blossom, sighed for a canvas
large enough to hold a whole orchard ; Miss
Barling looked as though life was just one
laugh after another; and Miss Hartt finished
planning the motor jaunt she and Betty
Solomons are starting on next week. Hetty
Dymock and Mrs. Sherwood had a word for
everybody, and Dorrie Ward, who was down
< ? r ?, £°t the mazes of the
ghostly Markets, where the lifts stop work
early, ancl only arrived when most of the
company was leaving. Grace Saville lifted
a contralto voice, rich as an old-fashioned
heavy-petalled rose. Everybody talked to
everybody else —mostly summer ‘ clothes and
holidays and the 11.C.L. But the coffee was
rich and hot.
There were comparatively few members
of the Wentworth family at the Vaucluse
centenary celebration on Saturday. Fitz-
william, the eldest son of the Constitution-
maker,- died full of years some time back,
and his son, who is a barrister, is the
only male representative of the clan now in
Sydney. Mrs. Fitzwilliam lives quietly at
1 otts Point with a daughter. Another son,
Darcy, who is a mining engineer, spends
much of his time in other States. No family
had a better opportunity to acquire riches
that would have put those of the Coopers,
Dnslows and other big landlords in the
shade. William Charles bequeathed sub-
urban property that would now be worth
millions. His son liquidated most of it
and bought Burrabogie, up Hay way, thereby
becoming the biggest landed proprietor in the
British Empire. It was a disastrous specu-
lation—one that turned out badly almost
from the start and grew worse. The final
J? 8 , 8 t he resumption by the first
A. S. \\ ales Labor Government of Greycliffe,
the beautiful old home adjoining Vaucluse
House. With Greycliffe went “The Hut” on
the next beach, where members of the family
and their friends—Hills, Longs, Michael
Grants and the rest —had entertained well-
known people for generations.
Manager Jack Brownlow and teacher
Boland Foster are still rubbing their hands
over Myrtle Thorne’s concert. The vice-
regal carpet-square was laid down, and
Dame Margaret and Sir Walter, with the
faithful Miss Henderson and a Bush Brother,
were seated thereon. Myrtle, in henna
shades of satin, with a sash effect like an
Orange. Day decoration across her chest, took
them into her confidence at once and
told them ‘*My Heart is Weary.” The
crowded house let her know what it thought
about her, and in response she gave a some-
what repressed “Note Cluster” from
“Lucrezia .Borgia.” Myrtle, who is still a
student, didn’t potter about trimming the
hedges of the vocal garden: she made
straight for the tall gums and poured out
Schubert’s “Almighty,” with strong organ
and piano supports from Vern Barnett and
Frank Hutchens. Torrid waves of “Softly
Awakes My Heart,” the greatest vamp, song
ever written (it might almost be termed the
paper-bag cookery composition), were wafted
over the audience, tilj even Bush-Brother
Caddick-Adams looked as though he might
simmer at any moment. Fiddle’s “Abide
with Me,” however, at the_ end of the even-
ing, lifted all hearts and heads to the cool
aloofness of the stars. Norman Wright
and John Lemmone provided breathing
spaces for the songbird.
Olive Kelso King, who was met at Fre-
mantle last week by her father and step-
mother, is the second daughter of the Syd-
ney insurance man. The other is Mrs.
Waring, whose husband is in the big Lon-
don furnishing firm of Gillows and Waring.
Miss King began her career at the war by
driving a car in France in the very early
days when there was a shortage of road-
transport vehicles. There was also an
impression that women were in the way, so
her car was commandeered and she was sent
back to London. Then she tried another
front, and with Salonika as her base did
excellent service for the Servian Army.
She was with this force till the Armistice,
and then organised a canteen on the lines
that had proved so successful in the West.
Mrs. Alfred Shaughnessy, whom Captain
I iers Legh, the Prince’s equerry, is to marry,
is a war-widow. Her husband was a Cana-
dian infantryman who fell when his fellow-
countrymeij made their great stand at Ypres
against the pioneer German gas attack. He
was as near a millionaire as not to matter,
being the second son of the ex-President of
the Canadian Pacific, and she is a very rich
American girl. Captain Legh is the second
heir to the Newton barony.
Olive Birkenhead', a nut-brown little
artist-girl from Beecroft, is winning her
way to the front-rankers. Five years ago
she started drawing lessons at the Art
Society’s classes;
and two years ago
she became the-
eighteenth in the
painting classes of
artists Jackson and
Dattilo-Rubbo. Four
nights and two
afternoons of every
week she gives to
the quest of elusive
lights and shades.
She exhibited at the
last Art Society,
and her corner at
the Women Paint-
ers’ show is never
without some
admirer; for in
“The Gum Forest”
and “Sunlight and
Shadow,” besides good craftsmanship, you
get attractive glimpses of the rich imagina-
tion of this Australian gypsy, who owns that
she likes painting sunlit spaces best of all.
His Ex. and Dame Margaret will proceed
to Gilgandra this month to lay the founda-
tion-stone of a new tabernacle for the
Brotherhood of the Good Shepherd, to-
wards the building fund of which £l2OO has
been contributed by the church people of
Bournemouth (Eng.) as a' thanksoffering
for peace. The vice-regal party will be the
guests of Willoughby Dowling at Guming
station.
The -stork has brought a son to Captain
and Mrs. Stanliam at their home, Brighton
(Eng.). Mrs. J. Macarthur Onslow, who
with younger daughter Betty had been visit-
ing Mrs. Stanliam,, returned to Sydney the
other day.
Admiralty House is being furbished up
for a visit of the new G.-G. and Lady
Eorster. who will bring the family with
them. They will be here early next month.
Dr. Mary Burfitt. who had a brilliant
career at Sydney Uni. and now has a big
practice at the Glebe, will in the beginning
of the New Year marry Dr. Grosvenor Wil-
liams, of Darlinghurst. Bride-elect is the
daughter of C. T. Burfitt, a prominent mem-
ber of the Historical Society.
Mollie, second daughter of that J. M
Taylor who used to be on the Public Ser-
vice Board, became Mrs. C. B. Kearney, of
Armidale, at St. Francis Xavier’s, Lavender
Bay, last week. The wedding- was simple
and pretty, combining the usual bridal frip-
peries with a note of thoughtfulness. Mollie’s
sister’, who married a nephew of Archbishop
Duhig, came from Brisbane to see it. Petty’s
served the party, and bride’s mother did the
honors in saxe blue tones of creipe de Chine.
The wagtail spry with his chirrup-ehee,
The dear old Jack with his brave he-he,
the silver-eye and his melody—
Australian birds in the dawning.
Mollie McNutt wrote the poem, and tiers of
white-clad, blue-ribboned, befrizzed and be-
curled little girls and small boys in white linen
suits sang it in fine style in the Town Hall
on Friday night when the Gould League of
Birdlovers turned up in thousands in the in-
terests of Jack and magpie, whip-bird and
scissors-grinder. President of the League
James Dawson, in an accent as Scotch as
Dewar’s, repudiated with scorn the old libel
that our birds have no song. Then Head-
master Webster got his choir in muslin into
midstream once more, and they introduced
one of their friends named Blue Bonnet to
dad and mum and small brother, and in an
encore reproved some pretty girl of their
acquaintance for wearing a dead bird on her
hat. This opened the way for Dame Mar-
garet, who spoke with horror of the wearing
ot ospreys and birds-of-paradise, and any
Dorothy Perkins who wants to become an
established part of the Government House
decorations had better take the hint. Then
.came the jolliest hour of the evening: small
boys from Five Dock and Hurstville and
Mortdale turned themselves into bushland
choirs, the Five Dockers whistling and call-
•mg and crooning till the birds in the city
parks and gardens stirred, thinking it was
morning, and peeped out in surprise to find
that it was only the light of the moon creep-
ing in among the leaves. Only one girl, Iris
Love, took part in the bird calls, and the
boys rose to the occasion and clapped her in
the most gallant fashion.
Connie MacCabe, who died and was buried
last week according to the rites of the Theo-
soplnst Church, belonged to the large family
r, ld L used J° own Kau cliff, in Woollalira.
Did Mrs. MacCabe was an Osborne, and
amongst her daughters are Mrs. “Ted” Jen-
kins and the wife of that Admiral Hender-
son who gave Australia its first naval-
defence scheme.
Yvonne Deschamps and her mother are
now in Brussels, having been driven from
Koine by the poorness of the food and the
shortage of coal. In Brussels the food is
plentiful and good, though rather dear.
Bosquet, of the Brussels Conservatoire, is
to be Yvonne’s piano-guide. Mrs. Deschamps
and the girl have been to England, and on
their very first day in London met a bloom-
ing and successful Dorothy Helmrich in a
tube! Dorothy has been singing for the
gramophones; and Henschel’s “Morning
nynm” and “Go Not, Happy Day,” are
even now on their way to Australia.
Joan Fry, who, although not a member
ot the Choral Society, stood by it to the
extent of three and four accompaniments a
week, has developed an appendix that simply
won’t hush up any longer: it has been send-
ing- out SOS’s, for the past two months, but
its owner wouldn’t listen till after the Faust
recital. On that occasion Joan sat up in
the Northern Gallery, and during the inter-
val the Society made her feel like a prima
donna by sending up a tall basket of flowers
that held a cheque in its bosom.
I or the dinner-dance at the Wentworth in
aid of Prince Alfred’s last Friday nearly 300
dropped in, among them two strong-minded
and healthily-hungry damsels who viewed
the slender slice of roast upon their plates
and promptly sent their long-aproned waiter
back for more. Mrs. E. 11. Fenner in grey
and sporting a green cockade in her hair.
Mrs. Gore Jones in black, little Mrs. Brook-
field, Mrs. Tom Hughes and Mrs. Brodziak
were some of the organisers. Mrs. Greville
Grainger helped judge the jazz competition,
the prize being a gorgeous handbag, carried
off by Trixie Marshall, whose male supnort
was Mr. Denison. Dorothy Nall and Phil-
ippa Alston flung cooling sprays of song over
the heated dancers, who wprked themselves
into a panting frenzy in their efforts to live
up to the leader of the band. lie conducted
the noise and balanced a chair on his head
at the same time. •
From “Australia Jane” in Brisbane:—
Another well-known official of the Q. N. Bank went
west a few days ago—“ Bobby” Little, for years
teller in Brisbane. He joined in ’74, lately retired
on pension and died jn Melbourne.
Lieut. Gerald Nutting, son of the Nuttingp of
Blackall Range, has put a gold .ring on pretty
Eileen Brett, daughter of the late Garvis Brett of
Maryborough. Jean and Fairlie Brett and the bride-
gloom s sister shepherded the bride, and young
Lieuts. O’Brien, Rouse and Kemp looked after the
’groom.
|A number of South Brisbane women who have
been Red Cross workers are busying themselves for
the soldier settlers at Elimbah, and have formed the
Soldiers’ Mothers’ Service Band. Threepence a week
and a garment a month is the membership fee, and
the Elimbah folk are to reap the benefit in Christ-
mas parcels.
Grace Wilson, who was matron of the Brisbane
Hospital before she enlisted, is to go to Melbourne to
guide the Children’s Hospital there. A handsome
woman, with nice eyes and a sympathetic voice, she
has 10,000 Digger friends; for she was matron in
charge of No. 3 A.G.H. from 1915 to 1920, and then,
on her return, matron of No. 27 A.A.H. She begins
duty down south on December 1.
Two more weddings. J. E. Woodrow 7, son of the
late James Woodrow, of Gympie, has married Elsie
Sym, only daughter of the T. H. Syms and grand-
daughter of Horace Tozer, a former Agent-General.
Cassie Cameron, Dr. Malcolm Cameron’s blossom,
has floated down the aisle with Harry Shepherd, once
of the A.1.F., now fruitgrowing near Cleveland. St.
Michael’s, Rose Bay, heard the “I wills.”
Rhona Campbell, who is to be married in a week
or two, tea-ed large numbers of her girl friends at
Finney’s ; and Jean Trotter gave a big party in honor
of Dorothy Earwaker, who is to marry Captain Dick
Billington almost at once.
Little Doreen Morgan, one of Lena Hammond’s
pupils, has given a song recital and exhibited a
pure, sweet soprano, which trills out as easily as a
bird’s song.
Dorrie Ward is the soprano that all Syd-
ney loves, and the leading lady who has made
the Mosman Musical Society one of the most
popular and financial of the city’s amateur
operatics. Dorrie
joined the society in
its infancy and
played in its first
production of “The
Mikado.” Her reper-
toire now includes
“T h e Gondoliers,”
“lolanthe,” “Mar-
t h a,” “Maritana,”
“Boccaccio,” “Girofle-
Gir o f 1 a,” “Paul
Jones,” “Dorothy”
(perhaps her most
notable performance)
and a dozen more.
She is at present re-
hearsing for the next
production, “La Fille
de Madame Angot.”
in which she will
play Mdlle Langrfe. And she was the
bright, particular star of the Cheero Girls’
war-time combination. Reginald Gooud and
W. B. Beatty share the honors of
training the clever girl, who lias had more
offers to become a pro. than she can count.
The Ryde Home for Incurables is strug-
gling under an overdraft that runs into three
in spite of such gallant help-
ers as Miss Schardt, who, herself born into
a darkened world, has that vision which sees
vividly and pityingly the sufferings of others.
Her labors last year resulted in £2075 for
the Home, this making a golden total of
£14,000 to her credit in the heavenly guest-
book. Ilis Ex. presided at the annual meet-
ing in the Town Hall last week, when music
and song helped to soften the hard-luck story
of the battle with H.C.L. A garden fete
takes place at the Home on Saturday,
November 13.
Just on top of the decision of the Y.M.C.A.
that the steps of .jazz are the pathway to
perdition, the Y.W.C.A. is setting the blue
triangle of approval on the Wentworth
dinner-dances. They’re to make a night of
it there on the 24th of November in plain
and fancy costumes. Tickets are to cost
the usual gi/inea, and the hostel fund is to
benefit.
There is to be a fete in the grounds of
Springfield, Darlinghurst-road, on Friday to
help raise £lBOO required to furnish the
Girls’ Friendly hostel which is going up at
Arundel-terrace, out near the University.
The place should be ready for its furniture
before we ring another year.
The Housewives’ Association, now that
it is a registered co-op. concern, tosses its
head at its enemy in Sussex-street. Having
wrestled with sugar and tea, it now has
a baleful eye on starch; and maybe the
summer girls’ frillies will soon crackle
almost like silk instead of hanging discon-
solate like weeping willows. The only
market the assoc, boasts was opened the
other week at Rand wick. Was it, a success?
Well, the State fish lorry returned four
times with the heaviest loads it has ever
carried. The Housewives want to open a
regular co-op. store, and when they get
20,000 members willing to put in £1 a-piece
the egg will hatch.
Friend of baby-Australia Charles Mac-
kellar sees a chance, and is bringing before
the Council a bill, planned on the Norwegian
law, to provide that if a child be born re-
gardless of a marriage license it shall be
brought up according to dad’s position in
society, dad to foot the bills and a Society
for the Welfare of Mothers and Babies to
foster-father the new citizen. It seems pretty
stiff on the poor infant whose pa is a wi’-
rabbo merchant. But it is understood that
the dear old doctor will frame a list of ex-
ceptions.
Mischel, the dreamy-eyed of the Cherni-
avsky trio, has now a small son, Michael,
who came to light at Buenos Aires. At
latest reports the three brothers had just
finished a very successful tour in South
America and were off to Eondon. where they
are making an assault on the Queen’s Hall
in January. England is to be their home
for a long time—-4hey can’t see the further
edge of it at present.


COATES’
Original Plymouth.
DRY GIN
This famous British
Gin has been justly
termed “The purest
spirit in the world.”
It is mellow, mature,
rich in beneficial juni-
per—absolutely pure.
For 12 7 years this
original Plymouth Gin
has consistently main-
tained its quality stan-
dard.
Insist on having
Coates’—order it by
the bottle.
All good hotels, clubs,
etc.
Interstate Agents:
MELB.: H. J. Langdon & Co.
BRISBANE: Perkins & Co., Ltd.
WEST AUS.: Seppelt & Son.
"N
v i
a
\
m
DAINTY AFTERNOON and EVENING FROCKS
»t BUCKLEY’S
(THE SHRINE OF FASHION).
For variety and beauty of texture, coloring atid design, one will
indeed have to journey far to find the equal of these fascinat-
ing garments.
Come if you can and see them for yourself. If not, post your
order with every assurance of satisfaction.
We pay carriage to any Post Office, Kailway Station or Port
in Australia.
THREE NEW AND INEXPENSIVE MODELS.
gasp Mm
i *it
YZ4I
YZ43
YZ4-Z
YZ41 —Charming After-
noon Frock, in rich Black
Taffeta Silk; bodice has
new crossover effect, dainty
finish at waist.
Price, 10 gns.
YZ42 —Dainty Net Even-
ing Frock, in fine Paris
Net; bodice and skirt have
sets of tiny frills, pretty
waist finish.
Price, 4 gns.
YZ43 Charming Evening Frock, in rich
Black Satin, smartly draped skirt; bodice
has pretty Blue trimming across front, belt
lined with Blue Tissue.
Price, 14 gns.
Remember you are only Distant
from us as far as the Nearest
Post Office.
BUCKLEY and NUNN LTD.,
WE
PAY
CARRIAGE.
BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents
for
Butterick Patterns.
"
THE “RUWOLT” CAST STEEL STANDARD ROCKCRUSHER.
TYPE RA, SIZE 16in. x 9£in.
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
THE “RUWOLT”
STANDARD
ROCKCRUSHER.
Made in Two Sizes.
THE LIGHTEST, STRONGEST AND
MOST EFFICIENT ROCKCRUSHER
ON THE MARKET.
ALL the Essential Parts, including the
MAIN FRAME, PITMAN and SWING-
ING JAWHOLDER are made from the
finest-quality Toughened CAST STEEL.
The JAWS are made from our high-grade
MANGANESE STEEL.
Hundreds of these Jaws in use.
INSPECTION INVITED; SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Listed on Lloyds Register, London, as Manufacturers for Steel Castings.


he largest setting:
quality pencil in
the wovlcL
VENUS
Vpenchs
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Learn to Draw
'■s&\ S
4 9&<
A
There s Money
in the
Pen.
The above t
is the title)
of our book-
let. which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing— both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
ESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
If explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three-
penny stamps
to-dijy for a
'•Opy of this
booklet—
“THEßM'S
MONEY
IN
THE
TEN.”
the harry J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
14 Union House, Or. George & Grosvenor Sts.,
SYDNEY.
KEEPKOOL
FOR COMFORT
m.
UNDERWEAR
KEEPKOOL is the
sensible summer
underwear.
It is porous for cool-
ness, absorbent for
health, and elastic for
comfort.
— Sold by
LEADING MERCERS
Wholesale Distributors:
HILL BROS., Sydney aud Melbourne
Missing Friends.
THOMAS, R. B. K. R.—Please call or
_ communicate with Blake and Riggall,
l2O William Street. Melbourne.
T i-t—money waiting for you.
m
WRITE FOR
RUG LIST.
SEND HEIGHT AND
WEIGHT WITH ORDER.
The Perfect
WINTON.
The “Winton” stock is one of our
thoroughbred saddles, and, is without
doubt the most comfortable high-pad
stock saddle made. The flaps in this
saddle are seamed direct on to the
seat, doing away with the usual skirt
and giving a narrow, comfortable non-
chafing grip. The pads are brought
high up over the stirrup bars and
along the rider’s thighs, giving per-
fect security to the rider. Made on
our best “Fouright” tree and fitted
with solid nickel stirrups, bevelled
leathers and folded girth.
£l5/10/-
Freight Free for Cash
with Order to any
N.S.W. Port or Station
the N.S.W. Railway System.
Write for our Catalogue and see:—
The “L. ongr e u c h,” £l5/15/-;
“Boulia,” £l4/15/-; “Ke m p ”
Pol e y, £l3/10/6; “(iayndah”
Park, £l2/5/-; “Bulletin" Stock,
£lO/2/6; and “G.S.” Stock, £B/12/6.
70 saddles in list.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
SADDLERS,
•f 393 George Street, Sydney.
Supplied to Defence Dept, for Military Hospitals.
Most Reliable Remedy for
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
INSOMNIA
BUTTERLAC IS FREE FROM DRUGS.
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
AMERICA’S
PIOIIEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, ’d.
Missing Friends.
RE GILBERT HAWDON, late of
Punkalla.—TV ill any person knowing
the address of EMMA CLARKE (or
CARIvE), a daughter of the abovenamed
deceased, last heard of in Newcastle (or the
address of any of her children), kindly com-
municate with the undersigned.
- - E. A. H. SHEPHERD,
Solicitor, Moruya, N.S.W.
liegal Notice.
TO THOMAS SHIPLEY, father of
Henry -Shipley, deceased, and formerly
of Crich, Derby, England, and all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
13th day of October, 1920, by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of February, 1921, your
claim to the estate of Henry Shipley, who
died intestate in France on or about the
sth day of April, 1918, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 14th day of
October, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
Relatives of the late martin
IRWIN, native of Wicklow, Ireland,
blease communicate with the undersigned.
Property left. J. REID STEWART, Mor-
rinsyille, Auckland, N.Z.
HUBERT BRIDE, who enlisted at Kal-
goorlie in October, 1916, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts is requested to com-
municate with
GAVAN DUFFY, KING & CO.,
Solicitors, 125 Queen Street, Melbourne.
For Turning Chilled Rolls
No better steel can be used than
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
Special Dannemora
Cast Steel.
It is especially adapted to flour-milling machinery,
and supplants all other cast-steels used for this
purpose,
In iin., fin. and fin. square bars.
' l ®te on ► ®
Stocks are small, so, if immediate delivery is desired, prompt application
should be made. -
Address all requests to Desk “A,” and they
will be answered without delay.
The Eagle and Globe Steel Co., Ltd.,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
’Phones City 7519 and 9863.
264 Fatrobe Street.. Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will he
talen of communications insufficiently stamped.
Aame and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Nemo: Acquit Minns, anyway. The jest
was banded to him for illustration.... Emerald: Oh,
no. It s only in the good back country that Ah Chow
finds jobs with none but his own c010r... .C.H.W.:
Thanks; but the gap that story filled was made by
an animal which had escaped from the ark.... W.J.C.:
liiat return ticket to “back here, of course,” has
been issued so often that it is now a rag R.O’K.:
Quite right; thank you...Awar: No life in the Shift
Ross.. ..T. Bower: Yarn too thin Laddybuck:
rutile sort of tale. ... 1876.: So rugged that we
couldn’t reach the end without an alpenstock....
Zihanitu: Verse wants an iron tonic... .J.G.VV.: No
use at a 11... .N. Sure: Snake tale seems to have swal-
lowed itself.... Bill O’B.: Not for u 5.... Geo. R. •
Yes the basket gets it. .. .F.A.M.: Similar incident
lias been dished up very often ; and there has gener-
ally been more thrill in it... .Esmond: “Music-
makers” far too R.F.S.: “Bingy” disagrees
with us.... Job: It seems a sad waste of paper
Kemo: Can’t find the humor, and the verse isn’t
of the sort to make us turn handsprings.... Maryon
G.: Verse not good enough. The alleged “Vers libre”
doesn’t stir an emotion. . .J.M.P.: “In Exile” misses,
but not badly Coralie S.: A hint of something
there that is fresh and strong 1 , but some of the
phrases are bad and a rhyme like “home” with
“alone” is terrifying. Tune your ear and try again.
.... Constance G.: None of them M.C.C.: Not
quite F.W.Si: If it’s meant as a skit on the
nil stery story, it hardly has point enough; if it’s
intended for the real article it’s pretty shocking
Manda I).: No use.... Dryad: Fair verse, but the
themes are old and worn and the statements rather
commonplace.... Lalla M.: Not enough red blood in
their veins A.D.H.: Hardly makes a yarn....
The Rouseabout: Very p00r... .Nanum: As dreary as
the song of a dry creek in a hot wind....A.F.V.:
Not nearly.... Charles S.: You haven’t the knack of
telling a yarn... .Agnes G.: Old ideas badly handled.
.. . • A.N. (Balmain) : Don’t like them. .. .R.A.F.A.:
You guessed it; the basket yawned... .Anderson
1. A.: I hat sawn-off stuff without music is calcu-
lated to rouse a terrible hate. You should see us
hating when we start doing it terribly Mabel R.;
The good Lord strengthen your sense of the ridicu-
lous A.L.T.: No use to us.... The Cynic: Lame
in all its feet. . . .X. 2 : Sheer commonplace. . . .A.F.
(Hurstville) : Nice little things for an aged maiden
lady’s album—if the lady isn’t too particular
C.C.M.: Nothing there... .Oliver B.: “Pinneroo” is
a dainty thing with all the dew on it-
Ah! Now you should have heard the claps and
Hurrah !
With that beautiful little rider up,
Holly May, looking spick, span and gay;
Fit to ride the winner of a Melbourne, Gup.
Mary O’B.: You can best judge what we want
by what we publish. No use sending us loose
wordy commonplace. .. .R.L.M.: Doesn’t get any-
where near....Philip A.: What's the use of telling
the ocean it will live for evermore ?... . W.B.
(Thargomindah) : Verse a bit bumpy. See what
you can do with it A.W.D.: Doesn’t strike us.
.....J.L.S.: Not a hint of verse about it. It is
simply bad prose.... Kuaka : Has a sporting chance.
. .. .Westerner: Not enough in it. .. .Ewa: Not quite.
. ...M.C.H.: The conclusion, “All, ‘all constrain’ my
native ‘soul’ to leap,’’ fills us with longing to see
how it is done. .. .Jungle: The verse isn’t strong
enough in the legs to carry it Vril: Has a taste
like sawdust Walter M. W.: Not up A.K.A. :
•1. H. Maiden says that grubbing is an unnecessary
expense Syd N.: The Registrar of Births, Sydney.
.. . . \ irra: The tailed tribe evaporated years ago.
Aston: Not badly done; but a bit long for the
interest there’s in it. .. .D.G.: Too doughy; bake it
crisper F.V.A.: You crash in your dialogue. Your
characters wouldn’t understand the language you
make them use 2356: Don’t think a London pub-
lisher would look at it. It is nearly two years too
late. . . .The Cup : Easy, lazy rhyming. . . .Fair Deal;
\ou want to know how much more a farmer can
reasonably ask for than “the cost of producing his
crop and a fair profit,’’ as N. S. Wales Minister
Loughlin suggested. If that rule is introduced all
the country that is ever visited by drought must be
cut out; for if a man’s crop fails one year he will
ne\ei be able to make that year’s outgoings good.
There are thousands of cockies in N. S. Wales who
are depending on this year’s harvest to pay off
debts incurred during the last three or four disastrous
years 1.0.: No good discussing a State’s new
fishing or any other regulations unless you first
briefly set out what .those regulations are. How can
the man at Thursday Island and the woman at
King George’s Sound be expected to know what new
regulations have been framed in Vic. or N. S. Wales?
616: Too diffuse. We don’t want the whole
beast—only the beef extract.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.L.F.: Was it intended as a slide for a Conan
Doyle spook-talk?. . . .A.H.: Mere scratches. .. .
A.McK.: No promise N.P.: There will be no
cheque. . . .B.F.: Poor joke ; worse drawing. .. ,
Phil Phenyle: thanks; but you have reached only the
C-grade thus far.. . .H.J.K.: Not enough in the idea
for a cartoon... .A.E.J.; Gets nowhere... .A.E.: Art
won’t tow you off the rocks N.L.: That joke has
changed its nationality since we last heard it....
C.B.: “Storm Centre’’ contains not even a breeze. ...
L.M.: Unsavory... .E.C.: An ancient music-hall gag
.. .. C.G.: A jumble of trifles; try your hand at
illustrating something with a smile in it.. ..M.E.W.:
No need to have explained that they were first
attempts.
“Mr. Ocky”: We used to watch the Chows
of the Labor Corps lining up for their pay
in France. One day a seasoned Quong.
wearing a pair of underpants and a tin hat,
flourished a five-franc note at us, and re-
marked: “Savee, bon pour mademoiselle.”
He went up in my estimation at once. ‘‘In-
tends to send it back to his little daughter
in distant China. Bravo!” I cried. But
my cobber wouldn’t have it. “Probably next
on the roster for Paris leave,” he said bit-
terly.
• Now we. have something to sav
Of the show at Pinneroo;
Old faces still there to stay,
A shake of hands—how do you do?
“Well, how is things with you, Dick,
It’s twelve months ago, vou know ■
It was looking then a bit sick,
But still we’re able to crow.”
This show, you know, is the best of all
Bveryone is out for fun.
Big, little, small or tall.
Talking about the prizes won.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabinea-de-
Luxe. Storerooms with bedsteads an
m irate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
iHI: Sjdpe;.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 24,
VENTURA,
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Mon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.G.M.G. ; Hon. A. .1. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J./ MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. .
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .'. . . . . .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Gunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Iloti. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital . . .. . . • . £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund . . .. . . . . £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysauut, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundie Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dorms Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up . . . . . . 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund . .
£625,000
600.000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625.000
£1.850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 91 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and; proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 18.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 16.
And every 28 days thereafter.
Special Tours for Honolulu Season,
December to March.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ean he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara tails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON :
R.M.S. TOFUA, November 16.
R.M.S. M ARAM A, December 2.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, Nov. 11, Nov. 25.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply— *
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
rm
mm
* .
X *-
’■A*,
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Directors
- £4,765,700
- 3,375,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806400
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.G.. President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Backhand. F.sq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faitllfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S- Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threndneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circiilar notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
■A3NCIAS 30M30 dV3H ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3k% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Dibectohs:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE,
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Glad-
stone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Carries Ist and 3rd-class passengers.
tCarries Ist, 2nd and Srd-class passengers.
JCarries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
ITranshipS at Townsville' for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart ParkerLM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli'-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney. ,
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers. . ■
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.® Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 460 Collins Street.
Melbourne, °r Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
lI\RBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-elass rail to BRISBANE,
(hence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
IUUIIUUJ (Jttuwigo jLiicicaivui.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited,
i’itzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australia# Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), .Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktsyyn.', >•;
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane,


PROSPECTUS
OF -
New South Wales Government
Loan of £3,000,000
RVTE OF INTEREST 5* PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
Price of lanu£: Par.
(Payable in Instalments).
Interest payable Ist June and Ist December.
A full six months’ interest will be payable
Ist June, 1921.
Principal repayable at par, in Sydney, Ist December, 1930.
List of applications closes Monday, 3rd January, 1921.
The Government of Nefw South Wales offers for subscription a loan of £3 000 000
bearing interest at the rate of 51% per annum, and having a currency of 10 years from
i st , fu e w m i ber ’ Vi?’/ saarantee being given that the interest will be free of both New
bouth Wales and Federal Income Taxes.
iom The J l ' an c is being raised under the authority of the Act of Parliament No. 27 of
rtuTwJSrt. IS nSL th w e P urpose o f providing funds to be applied towards the completion of
the North Coast Railway, the Railways from Dubbo to Werris Creek, Glenreagh to
Dorrigo, and Canowmdra to Eugowra, Hydro-Electric Schemes for South-West Riverina
and North Coast, and other Public Works and Services.
Applications for the loan should be addressed to the Colonial Treasurer The
Treasury, Sydney. ’ e
The principal is payable in instalments, as follows, viz.:—
£25 per cent, on Wednesday, Ist December, 1920;
£25 per cent, on Monday, 3rd January, 1921;
£25 per cent, on Tuesday, Ist February, 1921;
£25 per cent, on Tuesday, Ist March, 1921;
and will be accepted free of exchange.
Kio/ -Applications made after Ist December, 1920, must be accompanied by interest at
0*X e P 7J n ! mm ’J r T * hat date , t 0 d: \ te of lodgment of the first instalment of £25 per
cent. Any second, third or final instalment not paid on its respective due date must
also have interest to date of payment added. * 1
The loan may be subscribed for either in the form of Bonds or Funded Stock at the
option of the subscriber. OLUU1 ’ lue
Bonds or Stock may be purchased in multiples of £lO.
Subscribers for Funded Stock may have the interest on their Stock remitted to their
S the state freo o£ eMhangc '»"* thc
Sfl S w r r Sh °f,u he n State ’ an< ? so , at all Branches in the State of the Bank of New
South Wales and the? Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited.
the gSSS otlhe Balt'Samet 11 ** “** Tre “ s ”' y - <* “* <*
Exchanges! 3110118 f ° r th ® b ® forwarded trough members of recognised Stock
The Treasury,
Sydney, Ist October, 1920.
J ° cSo? i L m NG *
Colonial Treasurer.
y
Men of Action
Yes—Chairman Cigarettes were always the best
issue fags' we got during the War. I developed
the Chairman habit then and have smoked nothing
else since. They're the ' dinkum' smoke all right.”
o
TO
e
CI&A.RETTES
Renowned for their quality, purity and flavour. The CHAIRMAN
MEDIUM is a stronger Cigarette the "returned” man's favourite.
TOURNAMENT CIGARETTES
Every packet
of Chairman or
Chairman med-
ium contain* 10
full weight
Cigarettes for
Id
A "de luxe" edition from the Chairman
Factory. Made from the finest straight-
cut Virginia leaf, and the very best
Cigarette procurable. You can 7 buy better.
Obtainable from all leading Tobacconists.
Tournament
Cigarettes are
sold at. ...
50 for 5/-
25 for 2/S
10 for 1/-
K. J. LEA LTD., Chairman Factory, Manchester, and 418 George St. SYDNEY
We Desire
to Buy
PLATINUM, at £l4 per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., Sydney Bl,
Kj»S>Oaa&QH,y3S>r3Qidti(Ji
KS
m
0
rut WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match
M.S. National
Service
Peerless
Haymarket
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Selected
Haymarket Ex. Special
Avre’s Handicap
Spalding’s Tournament
Spalding’s Continental
Slazenger’s Renshaw
Slazenger’s Demon
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty
Slazenger’s Stadium
Slazenger’s I.Z
F. H. Ayre’s Sandown
F. H. Ayre’s A 1
H. C. Lee’s Seneca
H. C. Lee’s Church
H. C. Lee’s Dreddnought ....
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post
cheaper rackets : N.S.W., 9d ;
6/6
l5/6
27/6
3O-
/ 30/-. 40/-
•••• 40/-, 45/-
•••• 45/-, 50/-
6O-
/
45/-
... 50/-, 55/-
47/6
55/-
65/-
BO-
/
9O-
/
3O-
/
55/-
95/-
lOO-
/ Postage on
other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
_ „ Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation _/9 8/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/9 33/-
Ayre’s Champion 3/_ 35/-
Haymarket Champion 2/9 32/6
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other
States, 1/8.)
■v
\
fqppwufflw^WiMM
Specialists
in ail kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
. 35/-, 40/-, 50/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 97/6
Tennis Court Markers ........; 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle _/g
Racket Covers
Tennis Ratchet
The “Grip” Racket Press
Racket Handle Covers
Scoring Books
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils ...
Each.
•••■• 2/0, 6/0
7/0
3/6, 4/0
1/-, 1/3, 1/0
l/6
2/-, 2/6 coil.
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
„„ „ , MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
0.8. ii,, real leather, special value 13/6
r best tan na P a , laced palms 6or 8 0z... 15/6
0.11.11., lighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 nr 8 oz 18/fi
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz o_ ,
PERFECTION FIGHTING," napa,' leather lined." *6"or '
® OZ * * 042 /
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, ' laced '
palms, 6 or 8 oz o n / osr /
THE “LIGHTNING,” made ' in"" Austria,"' officially’
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney
Melbourne and Brisbane., Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other’ States’ 1/8.) '
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 10/
„ Tan Leather, „ 11/fi
» very superior, „ io/a
.. Laced, „ „
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 96.; other States',’i/2 ')’ 7
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND
7m. wide (Post 4d) ’ « u
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) . each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, 'e'x't'ra light
weight about 340 z. (Post 6jd.) 17/0 pair.
MYRROHL amemca TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums, pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea. An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range,, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Bail Punching will
keep you in good condition. *
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, 10 /f> 12/fi 'l a/ft
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, reguiatioi/ size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast—
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation 2 finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging*Ball"
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 4.~ /
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord °for
floor and rope for ceiling I 5?/
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather
double-stitched, very light 21/ 2 0/- qo/'
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, bes't selected hide
rubber and leather fittings 30 /_ gsj / * , ’
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright' heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete ... ’ 7* /
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders " 0/ "
„ ( Posta S e on or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2)
Ball Gloves 4/q nr
Punching Platforms . 50/-, 75/-, 147/. each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6 2/6
Double-action Swivels 6/6
Send for copies of “Cant 13 Beat ” Sportsman’s Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch” 1920
Anglers Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St, NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE.


Did You Ever Hear of a More
Wonderful Cure Than This ?
MR. IK. J. EDWARDS (.from a photo)
I feel it my duty to send you
a testimonial for the way in
which your wonderful Rexona
Ointment cured me of Trench
Feet. I am a returned sol-
dier, and served in the 27th
Battalion, A.1.F., France, and
whilst abroad I sot what is
known as Trench Feet or Frost
Bite, which causes decay. I
was sent to England, and was
for 18 weeks under electrical
treatment to restore life back to
my feet, until my feet decayed
that much that my toes dropped
off, and my foot was almost
eaten away, and they decided
to amputate the left foot and
the toes op risrht foot. For
weeks I was lying in hospital
riot making the slightest head-
way, when they decided to send
me back to my own climate,
while my feet were decaying all
the time. I had to have two
more operations.
I arrived in Adelaide on the
12th April, 1918, was sent to
Berwick Hospital, and was
there six months, in which time
l suffered terribly. I was an
experiment for the doctors, for
they tried everything, all with-
out success. 1 had four more
operations, and was finally discharged as incurable.
For weeks at home I tried all sorts ol Ointments and different things,
until at last it worried me so much that I decided to go and lmve my left
leg amputated. I told my parents what I mtended to do, and they got me
to nive your Rexona Ointment a trial; so I gave it a trial, and bj the time I
Mused Six small tins of Rexona my feet were
saved me from losing my leg. From that day I have ! y
slightest trouble, and am able to walk with the next I ...
for my artificial foot they asked me where I got cuied, and when I tol
.1 .
further particulars I Shall only be too givr. s™®™^
CO Ashley Street, Torrensville, Adelaide, S.A.
REXONA, THE KING OF OINTMENTS.
Ke\ona the Rapid Healer is a necessity in every home. It is the most wonder-
ful Ointment of the age, as the above letter shows, and heals even long-standing,
obstinate sores and skin diseases.
Rexona at once exerts its antiseptic, soothing and heal-
ing powers, causing a new, healthy skin td grow, and soon
all trace of the wound has disappeared.
Remember, Rexona is sold only in triangular pots at
1/6, and in a large size, holding nearly four times the
quantity, at 3/-.
THE RAPID HEALER
n
m
\vb *b«
Canno
Cleans 1
fLegula
British
a«k for ONOro INK
tajK.
elf.
cure
“oat for all Pono
«
>■
Put “Vallo” on Guard
Give your Sheep the protection that is embodied in
every packet of “VALLO.” Remove every possi-
bility of uncertainty. There are no failures where
this reliable preparation is used, and there can
be no infection when your flocks have been through VALLO.
Powder SHEEP DIP
possesses merits which no Woolgrower should overlook. It is not an
experiment. Its equality to the best Dip ever on the market has been
firmly established by leading Pastoralists everywhere. Its growing
popularity is due to demonstrated efficiency and service. Every claim
for “VALLO” can be substantiated by performance records.
Look for the Trade Mark.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
54
Riding Down to Rydal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIFE was very pleasant,
liich with gleam and glow,
Hiding down to Kydai,
Koyal years ago ;
Cax-eless of the weather,
Rain or shine or snow,
Riding down to Kydai
Twenty years ago.
Here a ploughshare furrowed,
There a farmer sowed,
Cattle in the timber,
Horsemen on the road;
Oh, but we together
Made a merry twain,
Riding down to Kydai,
Free of heart and rein.
Mornings bright and breezy,
Ail and paih aloof,
Saddles smart and easy,
Horses light of hoof;
Amble, trot and gallop,
Mind and .heart content,
Riding down to Itydal,
Singing as we went.
Some there were to love us,
And to hate us none ;
In the skies above us
Radiant rose the sun,
Shining on the saplings,
Setting all ablush,
Riding down to Rydal,
Through the dewy bush.
Thrilled by wholesome forces,
Clean of heart and mind,
Mounted on good horses,
Willing as the wind,
Royal roan and chestnut,
Ah, but life was blest,
Riding down to Rydal,
Whip and spur at rest!
Friends we had to meet us.
Pausing on their way;
Stranger folk to greet us
With a bright “Good day!”
Good was brawny handshake,
Sweet was woman’s smile,
Riding down to Rydal,
Mile on glowing mile.
Blithely sang the thrushes,
Plovers rose and shrilled,
All the flowers and bushes
Sweetest odors spilled;
Eyes alert, the magpies,
Warbling, watched us pass,
Riding down to Rydal,
O’er the gleaming grass.
Beauty, bright and bridal,
Gay and greenly-gowned,
Riding down to Rydal,
Spread her lights around ;
Lord, but youth was splendid,
Thrilled with melodies,
Riding down to Rydal
’Neath the arching trees!
Miles of grass to canter,
Stony tracks to walk,
Laugh and jest and banter,
Song and wholesome talk—
Thus and thus we journeyed,
Making light of life,
Riding down to Rydal
When the scents were rife.
Hives were full of honey,
Loaded comb and cell;
Easy got was money,
Easy gone as well.
Prudence went not with us,
Stern of eye, I trow,
Riding down to Rydal
Twenty years ago.
Mate and mate together,
Little care we had,
Fear of wind or weather,
Fortunes, good or bad ;
Ah, for roan and chestnut!
Ah, to be once more
Riding down to Rydal
As we rode of yore !
Dreams and joys abide all
In the past, alas!
Riding down to Rydal,
Now, no more, we pass.
Other ways we travel,
We who journeyed so- —
Riding down to Rydal
Twenty years ago.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Bull Gurney’s Wooing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nyy EITHER. Mick McGurk nor Bull
Gui-ney had studied the intricacies
' of femininity. The desires, the
foibles, the alleged inconsistencies of women
were naught to them. They had never
walked the heart of a great city to see there
the spoils of the world gathered—for women.
They had not read Scripture or literature
to acquaint them with the dominance of the
female throughout the ages. In their igno-
rance they deemed her a creature of little
importance, with no initiative, who stayed
where she was put. But Jim Scott was
more sophisticated. He acknowledged that
women possessed certain incomprehensible
traits that must be humored, without dis-
cussing the why or the wherefore of it; and
he claimed that he had a formula for win-
ning a lady’s goodwill, and was prepared,
to divulge it in exchange for one pound of
tobacco. He said that women were worth
studying.
Now McGurk should have known better,
as he had a daughter. He was a bad man.
Mick —just about half as bad as he claimed
to be. Well in evidence about his camp
there was always a rifle or an ugly old Colt,
and he gave it out that any interference
■with him whatever, or any thwarting of his
privileges, would cause tlj.e guns to bark.
He was a genuine nomad, sojourning in
the great forest that lies down towards the
Gulf, and he had not slept under roof for 40
years- or more. He wore a long beard, was
incurably lazy, and bred horses and branded
cleanskins for a living. Most of the work
was done by Millie McGurk. She cooked,
packed and unpacked, ran up horses and
even threw the beasts that Mick marked
with his knife on the off-ear.
Mick well knew Millie’s value, and was
determined that no philandering young man
would intervene and rob him of her services.
He did not credit her with possessing desires
or aspirations. She was just a woman, to
do her work and keep in the background.
If a visitor came to the camp Mick did the
honors, and Millie did not appear, as a
rule. Conversation with her was not encour-
aged by Mick; it was one of those things,
one felt, that might occasion recourse to fire-
arms, and as bushmen are loath to meddle
in other men’s domestic affairs, and are shy
in approaching women, Mick’s guardianship
was a sinecure. Where Millie went, he
went; and he gave no opening for clandes-
tine meetings, for he had the real bush eyes
and ears, and could scent man like a dingo
—could track a grasshopper across a sand
ridge, as they say in the Gulf country.
Mick’s domestic arrangements might have
continued undisturbed but for an almanac
that a stock agent in Townsville sent around
to his clients. This almanac was headed with
a picture of a woman dreaming by the fire-
side —everyone has seen the sort: darkened
room, red fireglow, kettle on the hearth and
so forth. Bull. Gurney, the selector of Graz-
ing Farm No. 781 K, received a copy of
tins almanac. lie tacked it on the wall, and
by dint of constant staring at it a wonderful
idea burst upon him —matrimony! Gurney
was a slow-thinking bulldog of a man, with
little respect for laws. Laws do not run
to any extent in the forest. While he plaited
ropes in the long, drenching days of the wet
season the idea crystallised and became an
obsession. He decided that he could, and
would, marry. The question was, whom?
“A white woman is best,” he concluded.
“Sound, no defects, a fair type of the herd
—that’s all I want. No studs.”
He did not look forward to romance. He
merely wanted a mate, whom he was pre-
pared to protect, to maintain and be kind
to in his way, as he would be to a favorite
horse. When lie first saw Millie McGurk
he came to a decision. She would do. In
fact, she looked like a “stud” —-showed some
quality. For Millie was a lithe, well-fea-
tured, smart-looking girl, with many femi-
nine instincts starving for gratification. For
instance, she wished to attend bargain sales
and buy remnants; to be rescued from
danger, finely attired, by a lord in disguise;
to beat carpets and stare at brides. Gurney
would have scoffed at such desires.
Gurney had no finesse. What he thought,
he said. He knew nothing of and completely
ignored the necessity of a wooing.
“You are not gittin’ married to anyone,
are yer?” he inquired.
“No, indeed!” replied Millie.
“Well, I want a wife. I got this selec-
tion, four hundred cattle an’ a good team
of horses. There y’ are —yer can take it
or leave it.”
“Oh,” murmured Millie, with the drawl
of the tropics; “it’s no use talkin’ that way.
Father wouldn’t agree. I don’t know yer,
anyway. I’m not a gin, yer know, ter be
got with a yard of silk.”
Silence followed while Gurney considered
her statements. Then McGurk came back,
looking suspicious. He had been on ahead
looking for Gurney. He needed some flour
and had come to Gurney’# selection to borrow
a 501 b. bag. Gurney duly provided him with
the flour, but first boiled the billy and pro-
duced tea and brownie. McGurk did not
relish Gurney’s evident appreciation of
Millie, but could not refuse the drink of tea.
In the Gulf the drinking of tea is a sacred
rite. To refuse it —well, it is not done.
During the repast Gurney addressed the
girl several times in an arbitrary tone, as
if in confirmation of his offer of marriage.
She responded very briefly; and McGurk
hastened their departure, resolving not to
come near Gurney’s selection again.
In fact, so perturbed was he that he
shifted his camp farther out into the forest,
to a waterhole in the heart of the gidya
swamps. There was something of bulldog
tenacity in Gurney’s demeanor that he did
not relish, and he had no desire for any
return calls. His worst fears were confirmed,
however, when a week later Gurney rode
up to his camp about sundown. He knew
that Gurney had tracked him up, and guessed
what his mission was.
After exchanging greetings, Gurney
dumped his pack-bags down and hobbled
his horses out quite close to McGurk’s camp.
He then made a fire, and put on his biily.
At this Mick, secretly enraged, called out,
as one must under such circumstances:
“Phwat do yer mane? Boilin’ yer billy?
Shure, supper is ready here. Gome along
with ye!”
Gurney thanked him, and taking his towel,
washed and presented himself at Mick’s fire-
side. He looked around for Millie, but in
vain. McGurk had ordered her to her tent,
and so scored first blood in the impending
duel with Gurney. He was a loquacious,
blarneying, affable host, was Mick, that
evening. He at length on many topics
while Gurney smoked sullenly. He occa-
sionally spat into the fire in a non-committal
fashion, and forbore to make any inquiries
concerning Millie. It was a sort of conven-
tion between them that she did not exist.
“Ye are out lookin’ fer horses, ye say?”
chatted Mick. “ ’Tis a long way ye came,
an’ there’s no strange horse-tracks this way
at all.”
Gurney spat into the fire.
“Anyway, ’tis right glad I am ter see
ye,” lied Mick. “Ye are not of them inter-
ferin’ kind that come botherin’, mixin’ inter
a man’s private affairs. I suppose ye’d have
heard bad stories of me. There was a man
wanst gave out he was cornin’ inter the
forest to make throuble for me. He was
niver heard of afther. Av coorse. he must
have perished. Yet they said I did fer him.
Av coorse, these guns here, I don’t say but
what I haven’t used thim when men inter-
fered wid me. Ye know there was another
man that came worryin’ me”
And so McGurk discoursed with much
subtle innuendo and affected cordiality,
whilst Gurney sat stolidly irresponsive. The
next morning he rode off. and McGurk
concluded that he had sent him to the right-
about, as he had done with others before,
and he rejoiced exceedingly.
(Continued on next page.)


REPORT FROM
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S
Mr. CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., Met Soc., F.R.C.1., late Government Meteorologist
of Queensland, and of Mount Kosciusko Observatory, also late lecturer to the Government
of India and founder of the Wragge Museum at Stafford, Eng., writes the following unsolicited
letter, the original of which may be seen at our office:—
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—
Port Pirie,*
South Australia.
Some weeks ago I must have caught a chill, and thereafter I suffered agonies from backache. A
friend suggested that 1 should try Doans Backache Kidney Pills, and this I did. lam now about to state a
simple fact, and that is that one bottle of these pills completely cured me. This testimonial is entirely
unsolicited, and I send it in the hope that it may benefit humanity, and for no other reason whatever. “The
proof of the pudding is in the eating,” and you may be sure that I am grateful, inasmuch that I am now able
to continue my nightly scientific lectures in ease and comfort.
You can publish this as you think fit.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) CLEMENT L. WRAGGE, F.R.G.S.,
Scientific Lecturer.
, .. am 111 t ; le is the kidney’s signal of distress. If this timely warning is ignored, kidney disease silently fastens its deadly grip—
or u ne\ sic mess first shows itself in pains and disorders in other parts, and the real cause is too often hidden until fatal kidney disease or
ciaie es ias set in. Suspect the kidneys if you are rheumatic and nervous, or have lame back, painful, too frequent or scanty urination,
", ea ,' eai ■' s P e s ‘ headaches, bloating or neuralgia. What you want is a special kidney medicine —not an experiment, but one that has
mvn i°l q eaife ' loan’s Backache Kidney Pills relieve weak, congested kidneys—cure backache—regulate the urine. Doan’s Backache
vic uty. 1 s )6ejl em 'ing hime backs and sick kidneys for years. Doan’s Pills are made from only the purest drugs, and are absolutely
non-poisonous. They are used and praised all over the civilised world. aosoiuxeiy
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street
are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
, Sydney.
Backache
Kidney
To his intense chagrin, a fortnight later
Gurney rode up to his waterhole, and with
him one James Scott, who was a sort of
harum-scarum stockman, a much-travelled
man with a glib tongue. Scott helped
Gurney with his cattle w&rk; rumor
had it that he received a bonus for
every weaned calf he landed on Gurney’s
selection, and that he was a graceless person
who went on pillaging excursions in the
light of the moon. Not a thief; that is a
nasty word. In the Gulf a discriminating
"poddy dodger” who appropriates the capi-
tal of the mean, honest man, a_nd puts it
into circulation, is often regarded quite
favorably.
That night Gurney pitched camp at some
distance from McGurk. After supper he
strode over to Mick’s camp. The situation
was growing a little delicate. In a vague sort
of way he considered that some diplomacy
was required. lie had brought Scott with
him as an answer to McGurk’s veiled
threats. Meanwhile he did not wish to enter
into open hostilities.
“I’ve got back,” he announced. “Scott
an’ I may be about here a day or two.
Think some cattle of mine are makiii’ down
ter the Gulf. Lookin’ for them. If yer
want any flour”
“I want no flour,” replied Mick, “nor
anything else. But sit ye down an’ have a
chat.”
Gurney’s plans were rather indefinite. He
proposed seeing Millie alone, sorpehow, and
calling upon her to go away with him and
be married; and he intended to stick to
McGurk and settle this matter with him
for once and for all time. McGurk regarded
his persistence with great alarm. His first
attack being countered, he was now driven
to adopt altered tactics,
“There seems to be no disease in cattle
this year,” he remarked. “An’ talkin’ of
disease, did ye iver see them blacks that can
kill another by pointin’ a bone at him?”
“Yes,” replied Gurney. “Wanst, down
the Nassau, oP left-hand Charley pointed a
bone at a boy of mine, an’ he got sick next
day. I thrashed Charley with a tent-peg an’
the boy got right ag’in.”
A short silence followed.
“Well,” resumed Mick, “ye know some
men have died through havin’ a bone pointed
at thirn. I am the only white man that can
point a bone an’ kill a man. Ye may not
believe it. But, ye know, I lived wanst with
the blacks, in the early days, fer a long
time. Av coorse, I don’t like ter point the
bone. I’ve only done it twice. I was dhriven
to it, because men had interfered with me. I
warned thim first, but they tuk uo notice
of me. Was I to blame? I’ve got the bone
in my packs now. It is part of a man’s
body.”
And so Mick discoursed while Gur-
ney smoked and betrayed no animation be-
yond occasionally spitting into the fire.
Millie was invisible.
Meanwhile James Scott went strolling
along the bank of the waterhole. and there
encountered Millie in the moonlight. He
had heard a good deal about Miss McGurk
and knew very well that Gurney in his
bovine way was seeking her. The situa-
tion intrigued him. Removing his hat he
introduced himself with great deference.
‘‘l’m Jim Scott, miss. Friend of Gur-
ney’s. I hope I ain’t intrudin’ on yer.”
“Oh, no, Mr. Scott.”
Scott saw that Millie was pleasing to the
eye,. and he smiled his smile of courteous
admiration. He contrived to engage her in
quite a pleasant conversation. Before
leaving her he said: “You are the prettiest
girl I ever seen. I love yer!”
That was Scott’s secret formula, to the
use of which he attributed his success with
womankind.
The next day Gurney and Scott rode
through the forest and found two clean-
skins in a mob of cattle which they duly
threw and earmarked. Gurney appeared to
be pondering deeply, and this rendered him
more surly than usual. The process of
thought always irritated him. He was deter-
mined to do something, but felt himself get-
ting bushed among the tortuous roads that
lead to matrimony. Then there was some-
thing uncanny about McGurk that bothered
him; one never knew what such a man
might do. Of course, he did not believe in
bone-pointing; yet to his primitive mind the
occult had a special call. His reasoning
assured him that Mick was a bluffer; but
there was something away inside of him
that reooiled fropi tljjngs that were “dark.”
“How do you reckon them blacks can kill
by pointin’ a bone?” he inquired that day of
Scott.
“Dunno,” was the reply. “I suppose they
only hurt them that believes in it.”
That evening Gurney did not visit Mc-
Gurk’s camp. He was still thinking, but
could not arrive at any definite plan of cam-
paign, though he was inclined to favor fight-
ing and incapacitating McGurk, so that he
might meet Millie without interference. Scott
arose during the night, and went off to look
at their horses. He said the sound of their
bells showed they were disturbed at some-
thing.
The next day Gurney took Scott into his
confidence, somewhat against his inclination,
as one does not like to discuss such affairs
with other men.
“Yer see, Scott,” he explained. “I’ve made
up my mind ter marry Millie McGurk, an’
that damned old Mick won’t let me near her.
Yer know how frightened he is of losing
her. He ain’t got no right ter stop her
marryin’ me. He as much as said he’d shoot
me, an’ now he sort of gives out that he’ll
kill me by pointin’ a bone at me. That’s
damned rot, ain’t it?”
Scott roared laughing. The idea of Mc-
Gurk waving a death-dealing shin bone' at
Gurney was too much for him.
“Have ter point somethin’ worse’n a bone
ter scare me .” he replied. “But have yer
fixed it up with Millie?”
“What? Oh, there ain’t no need ter fix
hex-. I s’pose women like ter pretend they’re
bashful an’ all that. But I reckon it’s all
right. She don’t git chances like me often.”
“Well, fer a pound of terbaeker”
“Oh, dry up,” interrupted Gurney. “I
wouldn’t give yer a chew of terbaeker for
your advice about women. I’m goin’ ter have
it out with McGurk termorrer mornin’! If
I have ter I’ll wooden him out. You have the
horses ready, and then we'll go off with Millie.
I know she’s sick of bein’ with him.”
So it was arranged ; and McGurk, growing
curious that evening, came over to Gurney’s
fire. He was as jocose as ever, but with the
same suggestion of devilishness that was re-
vealed in hinted ferocities. Scott withdrew
at once; he had some washing to do, he said,
down by fhe waterhole, and McGurk talked
on, questioning Gurney slyly as to his move-
ments, and assuring him that he, McGurk,
was not quite so bad as he was painted; that,
of course, he had to protect himself; that he
hated to use firearms, or to point the bone;
but that, if driven to it, well
Gurney smoked his pipe sullenly, and made
no comment.
At breakfast next morning he ate his
corned-beef and puftaloons in an absorbed
manner. He then smoked a pipe, and walked
over to McGurk’s camp. Placing himself
between Mick and his gear, he said, firmly:
“Look, Mick. You’ve bin talkin’ a lot
’bout shootin’ an’ pointin’ bones at me. You
know I want Millie. Well. I’m goin’ ter take
her this mornin’. I won’t let yer near yer
gun or yer bone, either. You can settle this
with fists.”
So saying he advanced upon McGurk, who
was left no choice but to defend himself;
which he could do very well when driven to
it.
The ensuing fight was not according to
any known rules. Gurney pulled whiskers
from Mick’s beard, and Mick punched Gurney
far below the belt. Sometimes they lay for
a spell, wrestling confusedly on the ground.
After half an hour both were quite exhausted,
and honors were still even. They staggered
apart, as if by mutual consent, and wiping
the blood from their eyes, looked around,
dazedly. No one was in sight. That
appeared rather singular.
“Millie, where are yer?” shouted McGurk.
“What in Hell’s the matter? We fightin’
here, an’ they not even lookin’ on !”
“Scott!” shouted Gurney; and then
coo-eed without any response.
“Fwhat’s the matter wid ’em?” asked
McGurk.
“Dunno. I never noticed. Bin too busy
fightin’.”
McGurk hurried to Millie’s tent and found
no sign of her. Her saddle and gear were
missing: the same applied to Scott. The
possibility of Scott decamping with Millie
had never occurred to Gurney, and it took
him some time to give any credence to it.
Yet everything pointed that way. The two
battered men. now allies, found two horse-
tracks going south ; they also found that all
their horses had been driven on ahead, no
doubt to hamper pursuit.
Seven hours passed before they were
horsed and ready for the chase. They must
catch Scott before he got to the line. He
was making out of the forest, out of their
reach. McGurk meant no bluff this time,
and Gurney was in no mood for trifling.
They galloped along in silence. Once they
stopped to commandeer fresh horses that
they saw near the road—Gulf men have a
habit of taking anybody’s horse when in a
hurry. About sundown they ran the fnei-
tives’ tracks up to a selector’s house. This
man owned a motor-car, a vehicle which
they both distrusted. There was n 0 sign of
lite about the homestead. The tracks ended
there. But there were fresh motor tracks
going on southward: and discarded saddles
and other signs quickly read by their trained
eyes were eloquent of Scott's well-laid plans.
McGurk cursed volubly.
"He’s got Googan to dhrive thim into the
Hue. r what in hell do we do now ?”
e ’H fuller them,” said Giirnev at once
“lhem damn things alwus break down.”
So they caught fresh horses, and started
for the railway siding, 70 miles away. As
they pushed on they began to emerge from
the forest, and McGurk’s resolution started
to wane. Away from the smell of the gidya
he was like a fish out of water. Before
them the great grey downs, a-wave with
Mitchell grass, stretched away for a thou-
sand miles southward. They encountered
fences now, and sometimes saw houses. The
lights of fires winked at them from the
horizon, and the trail of man was every-
where. Gurney, silent as ever, never
slackened speed until he saw a puzzling
phenomenon in the light of the half-moon.
Two shafts of light gushed from a fixed
point, far ahead, like twin search-lights, cut-
ting sharply into the semi-darkness.
“I tole yer they’d break down. That’s
Googan’s car. We’ve got,, ’em,” he growled,
savagely.
It seemed hours before they neared the
halted car. But then a perplexing thing
happened. _ The twin lights changed their
venue. With a deliberation maddening to
the pursuers, they forged ahead, at first
slowly* .as if feeling their way, and then at
express speed, racing like luminous bayonets
thrust into the gloom; biting into the night
till they were lost to sight.
“Fwliat’ll we do now ?” asked Mick again.
Gurney replied by urging his horse on
afresh.
But the car did not break down again. It
was long after sunrise when the wearied
horsemen rode into the siding, there to see a
train rattle and rumble off, away eastward,
with Scott and Millie aboard.
With a feeling of great helplessness they
watched the train slowly creep away like a
giant caterpillar across the great plains, on
its long journey to the coast. That train
and everything around them belonged to an
alien world. The reek of coal-smoke drugged
their nostrils. The glitter of steel rails
dazzled their eyes. The clangor of shunted
trucks dinned their ears. They saw beside
them strange men who wore socks and
starched collars, men who arose two hours
after daybreak, who ate baker’s bread, and
obeyed laws. The things the Gulf men did
were not done here ; their world ended where
the black rim of the forest huddled against
the horizon.
‘Twhat’ll we do now?” inquired McGurk
feebly.
Gurney walked to the little station-house
and pulled down a poster-almanac that he
saw tacked to the wall. It was headed with
a picture of a woman sitting in the red glow
of a hearth fire. He threw it away, and
turned towards the hotel, across the road.
“I think we’ll have a drink,” he replied.
A. P. ROGERS.


I /
V
p*
p
K
Kbsa.-
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Vlotorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N S. WALES
•fIOHLU.KV
A iT£DMU,
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory,
HO RUCK'S
MALTED MILK
Xo Shortage. Ample Supplies
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suppi-t
JAIiRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders*
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNEItS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London j
should read the British Australasian, j
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the j
British Australasian Reading-room at the j
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
A HAIRDRESSING
SALOON.
Perfect in
Equipment.
The finest in Sydney. Every
modern appointment, conveni-
ence and comfort.
Craig U Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, here
illustrated, and for which
Craig and Aitken’s are Sole
Agents in Australia, is the Razor
we have used in our Saloon for
over 30 years.
ICE 12/6 POST
Pair in Double Case, 25/-
or
Send tor
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
8 end for
Illustrated
Folder
A chafing, binding pair of Braces retards the thoughts.
Shirley President Braces are so easy on the figure that they promote comfort
to the person—comfort to the mind.
Millions of satisfied wearers the world over. Book for the name “Shirley
President” on the buckles. Guaranteed by the makers.
Sold by Good Dealers Everywhere
r
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A. Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
"A SHISUD”
—a reliable protection—against the attacks of indigestion is to be
found in Beecham’s Pills. Confirmation of this comes from all parts
of the world. The long record and the high reputation of this success*
ful preparation should inspire every confidence in those who have yet
to take it for the first time. Beecham’s Pills bring speedy relief to
those suffering from lassitude, biliousness, sick headache, constipa-
tion, poor appetite and other signs of stomach trouble. Furthermore
if these pills are taken from time, to time even when there is freedom
from any special ailment or indisposition, they will greatly assist in
maintaining fitness and conditionthus proving " a sure shield ”
against the attacks of that great enemy of the general health-
indigestion. Preserve your strength and vigour by using
becgfiams
puts
Sold In boxes, labelled 10-rd., ls-l£d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIH CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from tiie first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Btreet, Melbourne, Vic.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Lartett Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts arc required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter's Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both A
your health andl
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
discomfort. Thousands recommend
Good for old and young—purely vegetable.
Small PHl—Small Dosa-Small Prloa.
GENUINE must
bear signature
/Vz.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute,Beil£Co.Ltd.
if you have any
SKINS
or
Personal Attention.
'
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
CAL
r Three-Fold Safety
The Remington Model 51 Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis-
charge because of the three safety devices: (ljl
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operated safety levei>
(3) magazine removal safety.
Ifor Shooting Right
m
C-9
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length, 6 5/8 in.;
thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish,
dull black; magazine holds seven rimless automatic
Standard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chamber. J
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
aoft pointed, the same cartridge
•s is used in other American
Automatic Pistols ol this
"’■'if.
■
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, P. O. Bos 686, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
>u
ram
4"
each
(Patented)
*%»
12/6
Post Free
Full Particulars
The simplicity,- lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


,!
ssmmm
!
t ,
wwmmmm
mm
m
■
mmmm
m-t
.■
..
1^*8?
. W: WWW!
1
■
wm
m
L ■ -i
msHUmmKm
co„J,«l took place just before sunrise on Sun, In, m„„.iu K , December 3. 1854.
of it before they were observed, when a shot fired by a sentry gave the alarm. Immediately.
After firing several volleys —assisted by the reserves behind on the slopes of Stockyard 1
taneously, the mounted men closed in upon either flank of the Stockade. In the attack,
than 30 minutes of desperate hand-to-hand fighting the position was taken. The number
that at least eight men died of wounds. There can be little doubt that others died in hiding,
stockade did not die uselessly. They laid their lives down in defence r»f m-iwiniec n * )ncii,. t
Messrs. Brinds Pty. and Company,
drawings have 'by * he* Smith” and 1 studios*, and woJks” “There on ‘mfdV *is“omv necessaiv* f P ° *h *" th f for Australian Democracy, and is, therefore, of ihegreatest “interest toAustralians' “Fhe
value of sixpence for postage, in order to obtain them. ° Ks ot art. mere is no advertising matter on them, and it is only necessary for those who wish to possess the set to write to Messrs. Brinds, at Ballarat (Vie.), enclosing stamps to the
% usi.ui.guic position was mnen. me numoer 01 tnose Killed amongst the diggers has never been quite certainly established, but sixteen bodies were brouoht in for interment wi it Vc »
V m - C , an ** e little doubt that others died in lading. The result of the fight was, of course, almost a foregone conclus i—but Tt is alwai s to bc ren.e nbercd tlia those who per shed in the
manv tL fuf m defence of principles of justice and freedom that have ever been regarded as the birthrights of British citizenship * ° " h ° peiishe,(l in the
light at Eurato' hlrd?y ?»«*? Stockade episode of 1851-which is the only battle that has ever been
Owing to the great care exercised in the production of these draw-
aiffK thnj mill not be posted until the first weal; in Xovemher.
INSIST UPON BRINDS WHISKY and GIN.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. Distillers for 60 Years.
