

SUNRAYSED BIRTHDAY STUNT.
St Julius
■ i
*C
/T*
i
/
A
to
■OB
St
V
-i' -i
>
y ~j
ifew
fete/ W^/c/_tei-:^
AP*
M* c
'•*^*.vv3
&J,
9%-,^
<1
Sunday
FEBRUAV*
-cfip*
-f^>l
>V-
w
Sunday
JANUARY
Satu
3
©e
m
<&
4
What- is the Most Popular
Birthday-Date in Australia
£2200 SUN-RAYSED £2200
BIRTHDAY STUNT.
CASH.
CASH.
EVERY PERSON IN AUSTRALIA who eats SUN-RAYSED Fruit and “Normey” Confectionery has an opportunity of winning
THE FIRST PRIZE - £lOOO CASH
or participating in the distribution of the smaller prizes.
WHAT* IS THE QUESTION?
The question is:—WHAT IS THE MOST POPULAR AUSTRALIAN BIRTHDAY DATE?
CAN ANY ONE PERSON IN AUSTRALIA SEND IN ANY NUMBER OF ENTRIES?
Yes, frequent entries are requested, BUT as each person has only ONE birth-date, therefore, ONLY ONE ENTRY from
each counts in solving the above question.
WHAT ADVANTAGE IS THERE THEN IN A PERSON ENTERING FREQUENTLY?
This, that should his or her date happen to be the most popular, such conclusion to be arrived at by a greater number of
individuals having “recorded their vote” for that particular day than for any other day, the advantage of entering early and
often would then appear, as naturally the person having the greatest number of entries under the most popular date
will be declared the winner.
WHAT CHANCE OF WINNING THE FIRST PRIZE OF £lOOO HAS A PERSON ENTERING, SAY, TWICE AGAINST
ANOTHER ENTERING A THOUSAND TIMES?
THE SAME CHANCE EXACTLY, for unless the person with the greater number of entries is fortunate enough to have been
born on the most popular day (in the decision of which HIS 1000 ENTRIES WOULD COUNT BUT ONE) he could have
• bought up the WHOLE “SUN-RAYSED” PAQK without participating in any prize-money whatever,
x / THEREFORE,
A girlie aged six by investing “the contents of her money-box” is just as likely to win as a bachelor of ninety-six, who invests
a lifetime’s savings.
CONDITIONS.—Attach to Entry Grocer’s genuine docket at retail rates for 31b. SUN-RAYSED FRUITS (lib. each of Currants, Sultanas
and Lexias) or for three 1/- Cartons of the “GOOD LITTLE NORMEY” Confectionery (crystallised or chocolate covered).
If “Normeys” bought from Confectioner, who gives NO DOCKET, then attach sections of three empty cartons instead of docket
(that side of the carton on which is printed the reference to the Recipe Book).
Dockets must state “SUN-RAYSED” FRUITS or “NORMEY” Confectionery; otherwise entry will be disqualified.
Competitors may send in as many entries as they please, each entry to have docket attached. The entry to be in the form above, and may
be written, printed or typed.
NOTE.—If any difficulty in getting supplies, post us 3s. (by Postal Note or Money Order), and we will send you value in Sun-Raysed
side-lines, together with necessary docket. If sending postage stamps send 3s. 3d.
Contest finally closes 30th September (postmark on envelope), but you should send in every month—to win the monthly prizes of £lOO
per month. &
Address all Entries to c. J. DeGARIS, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A., Mildura, Vic.
Whose decisions in the whole matter of the Contests shall be Final and Absolute.
TOTAL PRIZES ARE—lst, £1000; 2nd, £250 ; 3rd, £100; 4th. £5O. 400 Prizes of 10/- each, and four monthly Cash Prizes of £lOO for the
winners for the separate periods ending 31st May, 30th June, 31st July and 31st August. Such £lOO to be divided as follows:
First, £5O; Second, £25; and 25 Prizes of £1
FIRST
PRIZE
CASH
Fill in your BIRTHDAY DATE and your name and address.
I was horn on the... day 0f.... , and on that day each
year I will always eat some SUN-RAYSED FRUIT or “NORMEY”
CONFECTIONERY.
Name —Mr., Mrs., Miss
Address (very clearly and fully)
State
Post to C. J. DeGaris, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A., Mildura, Yic.
Competitor MUST insert actual date of his or her birthday (day and
month). THE YEAR NEED NOT BE MENTIONED.
LOGO
FIRST
PRIZE
CASH
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2101.
Thursday, May 20, 1920.
Price 9d.
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


. NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt
U<?E
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
WAN INS
SWAN
INK
>
USE
Swan INK
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed , Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAIN ABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
——MJJM
m
>Th© All
ritish!
\
X
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery
to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169471 Elizabeth Street. SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO.. LTD
. Coventry, England.
I&jslm
o, »Tiu.lDihaust*aUA -l
Austrian Disnuftf^
\JTW\
r i
mill
i i
A pure and perfectly dis-
distilled spirit of high medicinal
value. GOVEKKMEHT GUARANTEED
ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS
Tm
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of-imitations
being’ manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no- reputation of
their own. and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins .1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to 'the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney. -
[4
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and the
Prevention of Consumption,
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A l.obe of one
the Lungs.
'■ «
The Red Page
Vers Libre
G. K. Chesterton, in the London Mer-
cury, has a very fine article on “The Ro-
ll mance of Rhyme”; and #mong a host of
other things he deals with modern vers libre.
This gets to the heart of the matter: —
But tens fibre, or nine-tenths of it, is not a new
metre any more than sleeping in a ditch is a new
school of architecture. It is no more a revolution
in literary form than eating meat raw is an inno-
vation in cookery. It is not even original, because
it is not creative; the artist does not invent any-
thing, but only'abolishes something.
Chesterton might have allowed a much
smaller margin than one-tenth for exemp-
tion from tils strictures and still have been
well .within the mark. It is possible tb get
music and rhythm beyond the forms of iflusic
and rhythm, but it is very seldom done,
because the writer who can do.it prefers to
pay honest homage to forms which are no
more formal than the progress of day and
night, the valve-play of the heart and the
recurrence of the tides. Anybody can serve
up raw meat; but it is a question whether
anybody who can really cook it would be
willing to serve it in even a parboiled condi-
tion. Let us take a set of simple ideas
and see how they stand the various modes
of preparation :
1. Rate (according to the method of the nine-
tenths) :
It is blowing somewhat.
The wind is from the east;
And a grey light is on the sea
Crowing and growing!
Sleep we 11....
Beloved, keep sleeping,
Sleeping and dreaming
A long time
Under white curtains....
Curtains of luce
Arranged
So as to fa 11....
Going in and out...
And taking the shape of the pillow;
And showering
Like a snowy cascade....
A veil for your thinking,
Which is white!
2. Parboiled (according to the method of the
one-tenth) :
Wind out of the dawning;
And a grey light growing .and growing
Over the sea.
Sleep well, my beloved;
Sleep well with long dreaming
Under the lace of white curtains
That billow about you,
(latching the curve of the pillow
And showering over—■
A fountain of snow—
A veil for the whiteness of thought.
3. Lightly cooked.
A grey light on the seas
Growing and growing
While the dawn comes on the breeze
Swelling and blowing.
Sleep, my beloved, sleep!
While the long dreams keep
Their watch by the curtains that billow
In foam of white lace
Round the curve of your pillow
Dimpling down to your face.
In the fall of the fountain are caught
Woven petals of snow
Less pure than the white of your thought,
White love, breathing low.
4. Baked.
A grey light creeps along the whispering seas, '
Growing upon the sight,
While morning, riding on the happy breeze,
Blows back the vanquished night.
Sleep, my beloved ; let your dreams be- deep
Under the foam of lace
That curving to the pillow loves to keep
: The shadow of your. face.
White falling fountain hiding happy dreams,
The woven snowflake caught
Within your net less white at dawning gleams,
Less pure than love’s white thought.
5. Stewed.
Grey light grows along the level seas
The while the dawn comes .shoreward on the breeze.
Rest, O Beloved, let thv dreams be deep
Under the curtained lace that hides thy sleep.
White is the falling net; yet can it be
As white as thy white dreaming thought of me?
6. Curried.
A gay light, a grey light!
And up comes the wind
Blowing afl the heavy night
From her window-blind,
A soft bed, a white bed!
And love lies asleep;
Happy curtains round her head
Pleasant watch shall keep.
A good dream, a long dream!
And curtains very white;
But whiter is the thought stream
Where love dreams delight.
7. Hashed.
Morning wind
And growing light;
Sleep is kind
< ’Neath curtains white.
White nets above,
Your snow can tell
How my white love
Dreams long and well.
Ail these in essence say very much the same
thing; but it is almost inconceivable that
anyone able to construct numbers 2 to 7,
oi . any one of them, would deliberately
write number 1. Far cruder things than
number 1, however, appear in the maga-
zines; and the natural inference is that
people utterly lacking in ear, skill and ideas
write in that fashion because thev cannot
write in any other. In other words, vers
If ore of that kind is a gross sort of fraud
and the people who practise it know per-
fectly well that they are guilty of literary
dishonesty in claiming that it is verse at
all. No. 2, on the other hand, has a sort
of minor rhythm and a far-off hint of music
about it, but that could not have been writ-
ten save by one who could write at least
one of numbers 3 to 7: and such a one
would not be likely to express himself in
that way. Number 3 has the closest re-
semblance of any in the bunch to vers libre •
for if vers libre means anything at all ifc
should mean what, the French words convey
to a French reader. In this specimen
there is true rhyme and a kind of rhythm
which, if it could not very easily be
scanned, moves pleasantly enough on the
ear. Within the bounds or metre and
rhyme there are at least a hundred shapes
into which the same set of ideas would readily
fall, while by variation of rhymes, phrasing
and tone the slender scheme of thought could
probably be expressed in not less than a
million ways. What more freedom could
anyone desire? It is notable that, with the
possible exception of Whitman, no writer of
alleged vers Hire has yet taken .rank in the
popular mind as even a third-rate singer. It
is one of* those things on which popular
opinion is absolutely light.
D. M. W.
A Standard of Social Comparison
Though Australia has long been a labora-
tory for social experiments, it is doubtful
whether we realise how far we have gone
with our tests. The extremists of the
Labor party, at any rate, talk as if we were
still well in the ruck. It is because Democ-
racy in Reconstruction provides us with a
standard for judging ourselves that it is of
uncommon value.
\V. F. Willoughby. Director of the Insti-
tute for Government Research, strikes the
keynote in a contribution (the book is made
up of the contributions of U.S. specialists)
on “Democratisation of Institutions for
Public Service.” “‘The greatest source of
weakness of democracy,” he writes, ‘‘is that
it is seeking to maintain itself in an environ-
ment which in many respects is not in ac-
cord with its principles.” Wherefore “therb
can be little doubt that the world is about
to enter upon a struggle on the part of the
common people for industrial democracy com-
parable in all essential respects to the
struggle for political democracy that charac-
terised the nineteenth century.” But what
the F.S.A. is going to do about it neither
W. F. Willoughby nor any other contributor
is very definite. All he can suggest is a
great variety of modifications which Austra-
lia found insufficient a good many years ago:
If the evils [of Bolshevik!sm] are to be avoided,
the United States will have to spare no effort to
secure a greater eqhality of bargaining strength
between employees and employers, such as will
result from the general acceptance of the principle
of collective bargaining; a greater equality in the
distribution of wealth and income; and a greater
equality in the burden of taxation, such as is re-
presented by the progressive principle in the impo-
sition of income taxes, the taxation of articles of
luxury, etc. One thing is certain. The working
classes are going to demand to an increasing ex-
tent, not only a larger share in the world’s goods,
but a greater voice in the determination of the con
ditions under which those goods are produced ancT
distributed.
Collective bargaining is still the exception in
the P.S.A.; indeed, in many industries there
are no unions at all. It is at least 20
years since the right of the Australian work-
man to speak through his union was almost
universally conceded. In fact, it is over
25 years since one of the largest and most
.militant of Australian employers, the .Broken
Hill Prop., agreed that it would employ none
but union workmen. But we almost as long
ago found that this organisation, since it
meant prolonged strikes and lockouts in the
event of the failure of the two sides to agree,
meant economic wastes gave no guarantee
of justice, and imposed greater hardships on
the non-combatant general public. Concilia-
tion and then compulsory arbitration were
the next steps. But compulsory arbitration
is regarded as so far outside the range of
practical politics in the TJ.S.A. that it has
hardly a mention in this volume. The
farthest the writer on that special subject
dares to go is in this: —
Careful students also admit the necessity of pro-
viding some sort of organised method of getting the
two parties together;, otherwise there are certain to
be bad relations Organisation of some kind is a
necessary first step upon which the other pro-
grammes depend.
when it became necessary for the
U.S.A. to keep the wheels turning continu-
ously, a Commission was appointed by the
President to find out what American in-
dustry lacked. It reported:—
Broadly speaking, American industry lacks a
healthy basis of relationship between management
and men. At bottom this is due to the insistence
by employers upon individual dealings with their
™ en ‘,. B ,rec t_ dealing with employees' organisations
is still the minority rule in the United States. In
the majority of instances thd-c is no joint dealing,
and in too many instances employers are in active
opposition to labor organisations.
Blitted that those conditions bred the
I.W.\\. The astounding thing is that that
body s policy of desperation should be given
even a moment’s consideration in a country
where the conditions are so vastly different
as they are in Australia.
Direct action had the further excuse in
America that the trades union party has
never had the smallest influence in politics,
i here may- be a Labor member here and
there in the U.S.A.; but, according to a
recent writer in the Round Table, there
is not one in Canada. No State of the Union
has ever had a Labor Government. In some
States there is still a property qualification
tor the elector. The woman has no vote
Almost a majority of the measures which
come before the State Parliaments of Aus-
tralia deal with matters that have not been
regarded as proper subjects for legislation in
the L.S.A. And it is precisely because there
are so few measures governing the conditions
under which industries are to be carried on
that America has so much more of that
many : sided welfare work whose rarity in
Australia is often regarded as a reproach.
Democracy in Reconstruction deals with
many other questions besides that of the rela-
tion of capital and labor. There is a strik-
ing contribution, for instance, by Mary Eliza-
beth Titzel, of the Children’s Bureau of the
U.S. Department of Labor. # “The infant
mortality rate,” she says, “is the most sensi-
tive index we possess of social welfare.” And
(Continued on page 24.)


fg
The House of Economy—From Head to Foot
EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SERVICEABLE
OVERCOATS
Will be prominent on your list
of Winter needs. It’s an in-
dispensable item, too, and, since
you must have it, why not have
it in the highest quality possible
at the lowest possible price? Or,
in other words, let it be an
Anthony Horderns’ Coat.
A Smart Overcoat is the Rag-
lan. It has slip-on sleeves and
shoulder, fly front, flap pockets,
stitched or turn-back cuffs, and
centre seam with vent. In Eng-
lish Tweeds, new effects of Grey
and Brown—
-95/-, 100/-
In Fawn Gabardine, lined wool
check,
58/6, 105/- to 180/-
f
ƒg
HOSE, who have followed the
evidence given before the Com-
mission will have noticed the
fact that experts agree that
modern Ready-to-wear Clothing offers
the greatest measure of value. Especially
does this apply to Ready-to-wear Clothing
supplied by a store of undoubted relia-
bility such as Anthony Horderns’, where
every piece of material has to pass a
critical test of excellence, and workman-
ship must be expert and painstaking.
And, though quality is assured at the
House of Economy, prices are exceedingly
moderate, as these examples serve to show.
51
X
GOOD SUITS at
Moderate Prices.
The Palace Suit comes from our own workrooms. It is cut
in the latest style, the materials are dependable, and the make
and finish are of a high standard. The Coat of the “Palace”
Suit has a double-breasted lapel, with soft roll collar, outside
breast pocket, centre seam, no vent; the Vest has medium
opening and four pockets; while the Trousers have hip pocket
and plain or turn-up bottoms.
In Tweed and Worsted, newest shades of Greys and Browns
90/-, 95/-, 110/-, 126/-
In Navy Serge, Indigo Dye 126/-, 147/-
In Pox’s Rough Serge 110/-
Also the “Standard” Suit, with three-button front, slightly
rounded corners, inside breast and ticket pockets, two outside
pockets with flaps, centre seam, with or without vent, the vest
having four pockets and medium opening, and the trousers side
or cross pockets and plain or turn-up bottoms.
In English and Australian Tweeds, neat and dark designs—
-90/-, 100/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-
■m
Fine Fur Felts
for Present Wear.
Men’s Pine Fur Felt Hats, brims with plain edge, 2-
inch band, in Colors, Black, Steel, Slate and Grey . . 17/6
Men’s Fine Fur Felt Hats, 2Hnch brim, plain edge, with
li- or 2-inch bands, in Colors, Drab, Steel, Slate, Brown,
Black, Gunmetal .. 21/-
Men’s Fine Fur Felt Hats, 2|-inch brims, flat set, welted
edge, in Colors, Grey, Steel, Slate, Steel Grey, Mixture —
16/6
Men’s Fine Fur Felt Hats, brims, with plain or bound
edge, in Colors, Steel, Drab, Slate or Brown 25/-
Men’s Velours, 2|-inch brims, lined, in Colors, Steel, Slate,.
Drab, Brown or Fawn 29/6
f
Fine Footwear.
No. 34 (as illustration).— Men’s Box Calf Derby Lace Boots,
Keith’s American make. Welted soles, round toes. Built
on perfect-fitting last. Stocked in full and half sizes.
Price 47/0
No. 35. —Men’s Box Calf Lace Boots. Keith's American
* make: welted soles, round toes, whole goloslied. L mished
in best style. Full and half sizes.
Price 47/6
Xo. 49 Men’s Kip Military Cossacks, standard screwed
soles, sprigged toe and joints, half watertight tongue.
Made for solid wear.
Price .! ”
No. 52.—Men’s Box Calf Derby Lace Boots, high-grade
welted soles, whole goloslied. full medium toes, dependable
quality. Made by expert workmen for long service.
Price' 39 / 6
WE PAY POSTAGE
On Men’s Wear and all Drapery and Apparel to any
address in New South Wales. If you cannot call,
order by mail. It will be completely satisfactory.
m
SMART SUITS
for BOYS
The Boys’ Suit—The Durham —will
fit boys from 7 to 15 years, and is an
ideal school suit. The Coat has yoke
and stitched-down belt at back, and four
patch pockets, while the knickers are
plain, or may be had with band and
button.
In Fancy Tweeds—
-42/-, 45/-, 48/6, 50/-
In Worsted. Dark Grey—
-40/-, 42/-, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-
In Fox’s Rough Navy Blue Serge—
-57/6, 60/-
In Colonial Tweed, All Wool .... 65/*
ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS LIMITED
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


’ , /j£s=
n
ft
i
I
L
TaKe snaps Hots of
the Prince with a
| KODAK.
Retain happy memories of the Prince’s visit —one of the greatest occasions in the history
of Australia. You’ll have numberless opportunities to use a Kodak —the city procession
and other public demonstrations will enable you to get intimate snapshots of the future
King—snapshots that you will be very proud of in the years to come.
Then there are the various other features connected with the Prince s visit that deserve a
record in picture form—what an excellent opportunity to start a specially interesting
souvenir album.
You can learn to use any Kodak in half an hour —but you’ll feel more at home with one
if you get it now, and use it for a week or so.
Some popular models:
The No. 2C Autographic Kodak Junior
This makes the new, small-size post-card
pictures, which are now such favorites —
2% x 4% inches. Price £5/15/-
The 3A Autographic Kodak Junior.
The most popular of ail amateur models.
Takes the full-sized post-card pictures—
-3 % x 5y 2 inches. Price £G-
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak.
Can be used without inconvenience, when
no other camera would be possible.
Weighs but nine ounces, and can be carried
in the waistcoat pocket or a lady’s hand-
bag. Takes pictures 1 % x 2 inches,
which can be reasonably enlarged.
Price 54/6.
Popular Brownies.
Most efficient and inexpensive instru-
ments; take very clear pictures in all sizes
from 14/6 to £5/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue, of all
Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Will s St’-eet, Wellington, N.Z.
Hear Moiseiwitsch— “Poet of the Piano!
HEN NO MOISEI WITSCH.
His Masterpieces are brilliantly recorded by
Ilis Master’s Voice
His poetic playing creates amazing music, myriad-voiced—mysterious!
Melody escapes from under his hands almost like water rippling over a rock. His
crescendos are like the wind rising among the trees on a summer night; his deep rich
bass resembles the mingled sobbing and laughing of the sea.
His music stirs the heart and awakens emotion that enthrals and exalts.
“His Master’s Voire,” which im.mortalis'’s all the most beautiful music, has recorded
the following MOISEIWITSCH MASTERPIECES, which you may hear, in your own
home.
MOISEIWITSCH, BENNO.
10-inch Record, 8/6.
5597—Le Coucou (The Cuckoo)
from “Piece de Clavecin”
(Daquin) (78).
12-inch Records, 12/6.
05590—Berceuse (Chopin) (79).
05612—Chant polonais ( Chopin-Lizst)
(78).
12-inch Records, 12/6.
05613—Capriccio in B minor, Op. 76,
No. 2 (Brahms).
05624—Clair de lune (Debussy) (79).
05582—Jardins sous la pluie (Rain in
the Garden) (Debussy) (78).
05581—Jeux d’eau (Water play)
(Ravel) (78).
05598—Nocturne (for the left hand
only) (Scriabine) (78).
Complete list of “His Master’s
Voice” Celebrity Records and name
of nearest dealer will be sent on
request.
“ORA MuPIIONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Pis Masters Voire”
Heyd. Trade-mark.
n
"HIS MASTERS VOICE
MS
nets


ƒ
For Biliousness
When your tongue is coated all
over w.th a whitish-yellow color
and your breath is bad, if you have
constipation and headaches, t e
chances are you are bilious. Your
liver needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate the
trouble. Gentle assistance is what
nature needs. Pinkettes, the little
pink laxative pills, meet the require-
ments admirably.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Or. Williams’ Medicine Co,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
376
m
•&*
m
<■
C. \
JE
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores in Aus-
tralia, and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
iiti £fti?\J|t
• ijc
Ikir ' ib.Ull
Df B. Allen's
m%\Qm
WAUfP
£g
&
(;lS
O ti,
m
S'A
m
B
liifi /,
Post freo throughout Australia.
Morocco Handbags.
Dainty and
Chic.
67.—Black solid leather Handbag, With
gusset and solid leather lining, fitted
with inside slit pocket and ticket pocket
outside. Two leather handles las illus-
trated). Size 10 x 6 in. Price 12/6 each.
We are the LARGEST LEATHER GOODS
SPECIALISTS in the Commonwealth. The
most fashionable “Sunshine” Purses, Hand-
bags and serviceable Travelling Requisites
are to be found in our Stores. A Oil are
invited to inspect our Showrooms when
next in Sydney.
TRY OUR LAY-BY SYSTEM.
EXPERT MAILORDER CO.
G.P.O. Box 2575, Sydney.
__ Also obtainable at
AMERICAN. BAG
STORES LTD.
Corner Pitt and
King- Streets.
Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street,
fydney Arcade,
George Btreet.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUR business is primarily that of exporting American
chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash. chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate ot' soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs standardised am
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
I)y es ._Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, fooilstufls, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Malden I.ane, Holbrook Building;,
New York. U.B.A. Sjm Francisco.
Calle Address (Both Offices) “ lieachfred .
liiiiiiliiiiiiiimiiiiiimiiiiiniimiiiuiiiiiiiiMiiiiiimmimiiMivMiiM
iiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiitiiifiiiililtllll
gf
cnHc-^-e-11
in
ƒ
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
• E
CrA-C
BRASS, COPPER. NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
poire orrirFS:
VICTORIA —Collins Hou?e, Collins Street, Melbourne *
NFW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street. S'dney - ■ -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings. Creek Street. Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phore City 2b77
Phone 2382
e-Ac- p~i—
gf
-HU CA-C’
is
ƒ
g
0
m
m
igi Hi
i
Your pipe is your constant companion.
‘Choose your company carefully.
You can’t go wrong if you look for this trade-mark:
—the perfect pipe.
Real French Briar—London-made
Many shapes. Sold Everywhere.
BD
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reincarnation.
Whose soul was looking into mine last night
When mouth to mouth we clung, and all the
room
Grew hushed, as is the scented silence-bloom
Of dusk when leaves fall timidly and light/
I had no longer my small woman-sight
That sees you, dear, mere man of mortal
doom.
Some other poet from a long-lost tomb
Kissed his soul’s goddess through my being
white.
Poor bodies, who will tell us why ye are;
Or what of maddening bliss
Call back to you the dreamers of this shore,
Who followed Beauty to a wayward star?
Poor mouths, from what old Heaven came
that kiss
That brought two singers all their dreams
once more ?
N.s.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Bread Invisible.
As when deep-fruited years rich surplus
yield,
Pre-visioned men ’gainst leaner years
before
Gather the choicest gifts from every field,
And bear the lasting to a garner-store,
So in the rich, warm harvest of thy love
Did I not gather all and treasure each
Those dear delights thou gavest me above
The needy measure of the season’s reach?
Yet to me some would speak these after-
years
As though drear darkness and the famine
rife
In silences, in loneliness and tears.
Made up my total in the sum of life:
Ah love, for love, that I might let them see
In mem’ry’s hall the banquet spread for me!
MAORILAND.
BLACK WATCH.
Veiled.
Your hat and veil are hanging on the wall,
And through the open window flings a
breeze —
Morn’s laugh—to stir its folds as stir the
trees.
The. gossamer sways, like sail a-billowing;
Now drops demure, its full length willowing,
As though to hide from prying eyes a face;
Then curling, wanton, shows —an empty
space!
(But yesterday a face was there, sun-kist.)
The veil evasive floats as Summer mist;
Now in, now out, like webs of fairy lace,
Sun shadows, playing mid its filmy grace
As dreams in passing stir the sombre night
To joy, that fades in vapory morning light!
Gossamer-like, O Life—and is this all?
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
The Track.
There’s a track we tread alone,
You and I and all our friends;
Somewhere in the Great Unknown,
Winding on and on, it ends.
Though we journey hand in hand.
Though we mingle heart with heart,
Though as brother souls we stand,
Comes a time when we must part.
Though with steadfast feet we tramp
Down and down the weary ways;
Though at lonely fires we camp,
Heartened by their ruddy blaze;
Though we share the selfsame crust,
One in mirth and one in woe,
Welded by one hope and trust
Passing all we see and know ;
Though we watch the stars of night,
And the moon, a flower apart,
Filling all the world with light,
Comes a time when we must part.
Then it may be you will rise
From the camp-fire where we lie,
Search the Dark with anxious eyes,
Stretch your hand and say “Good-bye!
Young and strong, and weak and old,
Though the n'ght be bleak and black,
And the winds be loud and cold —
Thus and thus we take the track.
Some there are who leave their couch,
Bidding Time a bright farewell;
Some there are who cower and crouch,
Fearing what they cannot tell.
Though we know not where we g
Though the ra.rn about us fall,
Though the cosy campfire glow,
Go we must in spite of all.
Careless then of loss and gain,
On and on we groping move;
Like a lantern quenched by rain
Is the little life we love.
Never blanket, never swag,
Need we sling across our back:
Never can nor tucker-bag
As we take that lonesome track.
Though a thousand thousand men,
And a thousand thousand more
Trod that track, and shall again
Tread it, weary-souled and sore,
Since no sun upon it glows,
Since no stars above it bend,
No man knows the way it goes,
Neither does he know its end.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


URODONAL
1
%
MAINTAINS YOUTH OF THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
From all Chemists and
Druggists throughout
Australia.
Booklets containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from
Chatelain’s Australian Agency, 352 Kent Street, Sydney.
asra
fs-JFlaanele£Ze4+€L
SAFETY
COMFORT
MORkOCK St VHORROC KSFS'HORROCKSES'MORR
We Desire
to Duy
PLATINUM, at £2O per ounce.
DIAMONDS. PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., “{SKy.*"
%
fa*-
%
%
(VP olnto
row bio m
in preparing the school and business lunches.
Make the sandwiches more tasty, more whole-
some and inviting.
You will never be at a loss to provide new
ideas for the lunches when you know
“Rex” Ham Pate
AND
“Rex ” Veal and Tongue Pate
Their delicious flavour is no accident. It is a
fortunate combination of carefully selec.ed meats
and seasonings skill and care in preparation.
Try “Rex” Pates for all sandwich occasions.
They are packed in perfectly hygienic tins sealed
without solder.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Cums of " Rex” Hams and Bacon.
fit
Jgg
3s 02 N£ 7
o
VEAI
il^NguepAt^
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
@53 l
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
BAKER & LONGHURBT, 50 York Street,
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
BYDNEY.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
mmssmi Cleans fbe feetf) witboul’ scratching
Sweetens Ibe brearf);bardei?s fbe gams
If your chemisr or storekeeper
cannof supply, send \/s in stomps
j m rry, u u ■■■ jiuiu^j
Rocke.Tompsitt&Co. Melbourne.
MADE
; N
Australia
mm
m
>s
m
m
/
HUDSON ESSEX
Soper-Six Soper-Foor
SWEEPING VICTORY.
These two champion cars carried all before them at the great Victorian
“Victory” Hill-climbing contest.
Held under the auspices of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria, a large
entry, comprising the most prominent makes of cars, were keen rivals for
supiemacy in every event.
HUDSON SUPER-SlX—Made the fastest time of the day.
ESSEX SUPER-FOUR—Sensationally established a l’ecord that was nob
equalled by any other car in any event.
Performances Speak Louder than Words.
Here are the Facts.
TRADE EVENT,
cars 18.5 h.p. and over.
ESSEX. . .Ist on Formula.
ESSEX. . .2nd on Formula.
ESSEX. . . Ist Fastest Time.
LADIES’ EVENT,
open to all cars irrespective
of h.p.
ESSEX. . .2nd on Formula.
ESSEX. . . 2nd Fastest Time.
HUDSON..3rd Fastest Time.
OWNER-DRIVER EVENT,
driven by chauffeur.
ESSEX... Ist on Formula.
OWNER-DRIVER EVENT,
cars 18.5 h.p. and over.
ESSEX... Ist on Formula.
ESSEX. . .2nd on Formula.
ESSEX. . .Ist Fastest Time.
ESSEX. . . 2nd Fastest Time.
CHASSIS EVENT,
open to all cars irrespective
of h.p.
HUDSON Super Six, Ist.
Fastest Time of day.
ESSEX... Ist on Formula.
HUDSON and ESSEX. Cars competing were absolutely
ordinary stock models.
These remarkable successes, following freshly upon similar victories of these
champion cars in. N.S.W., proclaim them to be the invincible leaders of
EFFICIENCY in the Motor-car world.
A Triumph for the Hudson Compensated
Crankshaft.
This balanced crankshaft is an exclusive HUDSON patent. It scientifically
reduces engine vibration and produces enormous power. It is onlv obtain-
able in HUDSON and ESSEX cars.
HUDSON and ESSEX cars have created more official stock-car world's
records than any other makes.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
liegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. 41. -No. 2101.
THURSDAY, MAY 20, 1920.
fftxCfl Dd.
THE ANGLO-JAP ALLIANCE.
“Britain will consult the Overseas Dominions before renewing the Anglo-Japanese A’liance.” — Cable.
“You don’t mind me being friendly with this little lady, do you, my son?”
“No—but you ain’t going to give her the run of the house, Dad?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £l t6s. per annum you can hate The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to ant address in Australasia, post paid.
Jo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters arc liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Neu spaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. IVhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit an 4- interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction— i.e., any picture
which has to be rc-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and (iotch, Ludgate Circus: and If. Da son and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C. ; “The. British-Australasian,' 1 51 High
IJolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central Hews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Da son and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
M Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; Western News and Publishing
Co., 10 Third. Street, San Fran i>co. Cal., 11.8. A.;
J. Roland Kay Co., 18)0 Conuay Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.: Itretano’s, Fifth Avenue and, 21th Street,
New York; Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park,
42nd Street and 6th Avenue, New York City; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clar’- Streets, Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency, 710 Market Street,
Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing Square News
Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
liong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Oevlon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, '
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Sura; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Tjnrd Ilowe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kinadom, All Sea Route,
16nz., l\d. Only one newspaper should he enelosed
•n eaeh packet — other ise: Boz., Ha.; B loz. to 10nz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid,; elsewhere. .Joz., l\d., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 20, 1920.
A GREAT NAVY—ON PAPER.
The claim made last week by Josephus
Daniels, that the United States navy
led the way at sea from the moment
it entered the world-war, would only
provoke derision if there were not a
number of people here who are eager
to believe the yarn. Many of them
are uproarious Imperialists in theory; but
an equally powerful emotion is a traditional
hankering to be defended on the cheap.
Before the R.A.N. came into existence their
idea of a suitable naval defence policy for
the Commonwealth was to pay to the Brit'sh
Admiralty a subsidy about equivalent to the
beer-money of the fleet so acquired. in
the same spirit they are against an extension
of the R.A.N. on tlm lines laid down by
Admiral Jellicoe. They consider it un-
necessary. Australian ideals are the ideals
of the U.S.A.; and if the U.S.A. was pre-
eminent in the Atlantic in 1917, then it must
obviously be unbeatable in the Pacific in
1920.
# * * *
Of course the braggadocio of America’s
civilian Secretary for the Navy carries no
weight with the real sailormen of the U.S.
The more sailorlike and the less blatant
they are the more painfully it must set their
teeth on edge. Their excuse for Daniels
will be that he is a politician who has to
boost his Department to keep his job. And
the same with President Wilson, who is the
latest to claim that he first conceived the
convoy idea and the North Sea barrage scheme.
The U.S. navy might listen to the ex-law
professor on a point of jurisprudence, but
as an authority on high naval strategy he
is a joke. The truth is the American
sailors joined in the war with all that
humility and eagerness to learn which dis-
tinguished the Yankee soldiers when they
lirst arrived in France, and for many months
afterwards. And the sa.lors certainly
had reason. “I believe,” says Rear-Admiral
Bradley Fiske, in his ‘‘From Midshipman
to Rear-Admiral, “that the failure of the
United States to begm to prepare for war as
soon as war broke out in Europe will go
down in history as one of the most impor-
tant facts in history.” In his capacity of
senior adviser to the Secretary of the Navy,
Fiske testified three months after the
declaration of war by Britain against Ger-
many that “it would take at least five years
to get the U.S. Navy ready.” That he knew
what he was talking about was shown three
and a half years later. U.S. Secretary for
War Baker —who, like Daniels, is a civi-
lian —came out with the wild boast that
America’s first million soldiers had been
safely landed in France owing to “the
superbly efficient protection given by the
American Navy.” Whereupon Franklin
Roosevelt. Assistant Secretary of the Navy,
publicly stated, “in fairness to our Ally,”
that “60 per cent, of the American troops
now in France were brought over in British
ships escorted by British men-o’-war.” lie
might have gone further, and admitted that
certainly op to the end of 1917, and probably
much later, not a soldier could have been
shipped without the protection of the R.N.,
to make no mention of the help of the Brit-
ish mercantile marine.
* * * *
But things are different now, it will be
said. The U.S.A. Navy is scheduled to be as
b g as the R.N. in 1924. Under the Naval
Appropriation Bill which was passed in the
U.S. House of Representatives last March
a sum of £85.000,000 is to be spent on it.
Six battle-cruisers are building which will
out-speed and out-range even the Hood. A
Dreadnought fleet of 35 is either in being or
on the stocks; and the destroyers and
submarines are numbered in hundreds.
What chance have any of the Asiatic
races—the Japanese, for example—of
asserting themselves in opposition to
such a colossal programme? The U.S.A.
is powerfully interested by all sorts of reper-
cuss. ons in the maintenance of a White Aus-
tralia. Obviously the Commonwealth is
saie, however poorly defended at Lome, with
America supreme in the Pacific. And if
the Yankee taxpayers are willing to shoulder
the white man’s burdens for us, why should
we go to needless expense? There might
be something in the argument, on the purely
commercial side, if it was a certainty that
supremacy at sea could be bought over the
•counter Ike tea or tobacco. But it can’t.
In the first place, the Japanese Navy, like
America’s, is immensely more formidable as
regai ds material than it was when the
Great War began. In this respect its
strength has about doubled. Tokio immedi-
ately responded to the Jellicoe report by
a decision to spend £30,000.000 on four
battle-cruisers, three light cruisers and a
complementary fleet of destroyers and sub-
marines. The Japs should thus be capable
of putting up a strenuous fight with any
Power in the Pacific on a basis of weight of
metal alone. But when it comes to per-
sonnel the advantages on their side are tre-
mendous, not to say alarming. Owing to
their policy of conscription they are able to
permanently keep every ship they possess in
full comm’ssion. And, unlike the Americans,
they are born sailors. A glance at a map
will supply the explanation. The best class
of Japanese brain tends to enter the navy
of the M’kado for much the same reason
that the best American brains turn to busi-
ness: the man who rises in the services in
Japan is well paid, as Asia understands the
term, and he is more esteemed than one
in any other calling. The new American
est'n'ntes are providing for the huge total
of 120,000 men, which is only about 16.000
below the present strength of the British
Navy. But when the Yankee fleet was less
than a third of the size which the politi-
cians intend it shall be in a little over three
years, and when shore jobs were fewer and
worse na:d than they are to-day. it was
impossible to keep the ships adequately
manned. It was an American who remarked
that war between England and the U.S. was
outs'de the realm of practical politics, since
an immense percentage of the Yankee rat-
ines were ex-R.N. men attracted to the Re-
publ'can Navy by the superior pay and liv-
ing conditions. At that time the U.S. naval
personnel was 19,600 below strength; and a
quarter of a century’s effort to work up an
effective Naval Reserve and Naval Militia
had ended in abject failure so far as the
first was concerned, and partial failure in
respect of the second. Weighing such facts,
and remembering that Australia’s resolution
to remain a white man’s country i.s always
liable to be regarded as an affront by the
yellow races, though there is no good reason
why it should be, it is plain that to stake
our national existence on the certainty of
the U.S. dominating the Pacific would be
cr'minal insanity. The Yankees may be as
good at sea as their politicians profess to
think: it is 100 years since they have had
anything like an opportunity to prove it.
in action. As to the quality of the Japanese
there i.s no doubt.
THE GOLDEN AGE—SUCH AS IT
WAS.
The credit of Sydney City Council is sup-
posed to be about equal to that of the State
Government. It might, with some show of
reason, be higher than that of the State
Government, for its territory, though small,
is densely peopled and wholly productive. It
has no droughts, no drought-stricken class
constantly clamoring for relief, nor any
great inass 0 f public works which pay neither
interest nor working expenses. In fact, if
Sydney and its environs broke away from
N. S. Wales and set up as a separate State
—a Free City after the manner of Hamburg
and Bremen —it ought to be a very bloated
financ al proposition. Yet an alderman of long
standing warned the Council recently that it
is borrowing at 61 per cent, to finance its
electric business and may yet find itself
paying 8 or 10 per cent. There is nothing
cheering in tbe British money -market for
the J. Bull .Government h«« set itself to
pay off at least £300.000.000 of its own
foreign debt ins'de two rears nml afterwards
to pursue the job to the death. A country
which has taken on a contract like that
can't have its ear easily and cheaply bitten
by mendicants. And, so far as A. S. \\ ales
State loans are concerned, there is nothing
very joyous about the local drought, though
it furnishes a great deal of interesting read-
ing. For instance, the Government has on
its hands the new loan railway to Tnda, be-
yond the Lachlan, on the road to Broken
Hill out where it hardly ever rains and is
seldom expected to. Water was, however,
recently siruck amid great rejoicings; but
it being poisonous cows and sundries drank
it and fell down dead. These happenings
don’t tend to improve credit; still the usual
politicians furnish the usual assurances about
the “unlimited natural resources." And
there certainly are resources; also there is
paper money galore.
* * * *
So the question arises—or, rather, it be-
comes a shade more acute, for it rose any
time in the last 5U years—whether the com-
munity wouldn’t like to invest its own money
in some of these 15 10s. or 16 2s. or 18 or
110 per cent, enterprises, and grow rich, in-
stead of putting so many millions into sav-
ings banks which pay 13 to £3 15s. per cent.,
or into other things that are worse. About
the value of the investment there would be
no doubt, unless every politician Tiie Bul-
letin knows and a great many whose
acquaintance it has escaped is a liar and
would be struck dead if a certain irritable
apostle was still above ground. Even the
Trida railway, in the land where it doesn’t
rain and the subterranean water kills cows,
is a 6 per cent, investment; at least the
money-lender is to get about that, and may
get 8 or 10 per cent, after the loan is re-
newed, whether the railway earns it or the
taxpayers supply it. And that is immeasur-
ably better than the meagre 3 per cent,
yielded by the Savings Bank. It; is not here
proposed that the money should be supplied
by a privileged caste or aristocracy of bond-
holders or preference shareholders —a Shy-
lock class with a mortgage on the bodies
and souls of their fellows and on their chil-
dren to the blankth generation—but that
the profit and bless.ng should be equal. N.
S. Wales Treasurer Lang and Federal
Treasurer Watt habitually appeal to the
local peerage of money and privilege, and oilier
it more money and power and privilege.
This appeal should be to all, and be com-
pulsory, and there should be no dashed
privilege. In fact, it is suggested that the
money should be raised like any other tax
money, and that the people should really
own these wonderful 6, and possibly 8 or
10, per cent, investments and wallow in
the profits as common property. If it is
worth while paying huge rates of interest
to a small class either here or elsewhere it
is worth wh.le paying them to all classes
alike—not by giving each of the bondholders'
(that is, every citizen) his bit half-yearly
in cash, which is clumsy and expensive, but
by letting him keep it where otherwise he
would pay it away. In this matter The
Bulletin really believes that it is the only
thorough-going opponent of caste and
pomp and aristocracy in Australia —not
merely the aristocracy which is a harmless
knight or a baron with no shred of baronial
authority, but the slave owning kind that
possesses the people and collects tribute and
has all the authority going. Certainly men
like Ryan and Theodore and Storey and
Tudor and Prendergast don’t measure up
to the democratic standard, but are mere
flunkeys in the halls of plutocratic great-
ness, and waiters in all sorts of weather for
broken victuals outside the banker’s
Further, this paper is, so far as it knows,
the only practical working communist iu
the country. It believes in and advocates
the real common ownership of all the pub-
lic works that now exist and all that will
exist, and of all the public bonds, deben-
tures and securities, and in the abolition of
the privileged family of secured preference
shareholders that they represent. Other
communists are shams and the faith is not
in them, nor is the name blown in the
bottle,
* • * *
There is no great difficulty in the way
save inefficiency, cowardice and, above all,
toadyism. Taking N. S. Wales as the most
indebted State and the Mother of Borrow-
ing in Australia, it isn’t the beggarly place
which its rulers make out in the intervals
of doing the immortal gas-bag act about its
being richer than Golconda. Probably when
the Western Division is reckoned in, 20
average acres in the Ma State are only
worth as much as one acre in England;
but with only a little over one-hundredth
the population to the acre, it should be five
times as good a place. Certainly there is
nothing about it to show why, carrying as
it does a petty burden of £5 4s. per head
per annum in State and Federal direct
taxation, it should be a distracted and
heart-broken borrower, while Britain finds
£l5 3s. per head direct taxes and is paying
off its debts. If N. S. Wales is so poor
that it has to borrow, then it is a pauper
with no right to borrow. Suppose an
average was struck between the two figures
—suppose we say £lO per head —there would
be £2,000,000 a year available in reduction
of the debt and £7,000.000 or £8.000,000 to
invest in these wonderful public works
which the Government says are worth about
6 per cent. If they aren’t worth that, the
State has at least to pay that for them, and
is likely to pay more, which is the same thing
so far as the public purse goes. The
idea of giving away such a glorious
chance to strangers, and at the same
time bursting up socialism and com-
mrn'sm and the nationalisation policy of
public ownership, and creating a powerful
privileged class which can be backed for
collection purposes on Default Day by
foreign troops and ironclads, and looking a
cowardly, incompetent and toadying creature
to boot, is exasperating. If nothing will
induce any political leader, especially any
one of the tribe which professes to represent
freedom and equality, to do something for
real public ownerslrp and against the grow-
ing nobility of bondholders and tribute col-
lectors and plutocratic absentees, then some-
hodv should be banared ns a warning on the
highest branch of our great natural arboreal
resources.
* * * •
Few people take- the trouble to remember
that there was once a sort of Golden Asa
in N. S. Wales before the community took
the craze that the desert could be made to
blossom like the Plain of Esdraelon by put-
ting strips of dry borrowed iron across it
and losing £600,000 a year in running there-
on dry boxes on wheels, and before it invented
the idea of paying £6.000.000 a year to an
aristocracy of its own invention. In those
days it left the West pretty much alone,
and hadn’t conceived the inspiration that it
was the business of a million or even two
million people to struggle with 125,000 square
miles of country which was more hostile
than Ireland (though it was the hostility of
Nature), and as unpromising in places
as Sahara, and to sow it with one haggard
inhabitant to 10 square miles, and then pur-
sue him with schools and tanks and police-
men and roads and railways and rel.ef ex-
peditions and other liabilities. There was
a time when people had a tendency to let
one-half of the State alone till the other
half had accumulated a few million people
to stand the exploration bill. But the
Megalomaniacs came, and the Swelled Heads,
and the people with the Big Borrowing Gos-
pel, and the Big City Congesters, who held
that the hinterland of Sydney must be opened
up so that people could boast that the western
train didn’t stop till it bumped into the set-
ting sun. Actually a time existed when
people in N. S. Wales paid no land-tax, in-
come-tax, tobacco, excise or legacy duty, and
didn’t even put a stamp on a rece'pt, and
when the debt was £22 per inhabitant in-
stead of £75; also when things like these
used to appear in the accounts: —■
Expenditure
Expenditure out of
out of Accumulated
Revenue. Surplus.
ISSO .. .. £5.129.028 £331,287
1881 .. .. 5,218.226 407,523
1882 .. .. 5,631.499 524.160
1883 .. .. 6,818,303 732,065
1884 ..' .. 7,531,771 598 426
1885 .. .. 8,113,510 241,610
There really were small taxes and accumu-
lated funds at one t : me. Perhaps if the
Ma State gets rid of the Megalomaniacs, and
by hard work and hard repayment and the
growth of population at other places besides
Sydney gets its debt down again to £22 per
head, and provided it doesn’t build any more
(5 per cent, loan railways to places where
the water kills cows at sight, some sort of
Golden Ae-e may come again—a better and
more intelligent one.
THE TRADE IN TITLES.
Whether Premier Storey was “on the
verge of collapse” or not, there certainly
was trouble during the Ministerial caucus
meeting at N. S. Wales Parliament House
last week; yet all that the members
who so worried their leader were guilty of
was to ask him to do some of the things
which lie pledged his word would be done
promptly if he was put where he is. Those
things sounded easy on the hustings: in prac-
tice most of them call for a good deal more
nerve and resolution than the average party
politician *IIOBBOBB6B. Thus it seems a trivial
thing when a party is out of office to
promise that if brighter days should shine
the Ministerial practice of recommending
persons for titles will be abandoned. The
mere party helot, whose blow for democracy
begins and ends at the polling-booth, is
quite clear as to why he wants this reform
introduced: he knows that the existing sys-
tem of decorations operates, among other
things, to weaken the Labor cause, and that
the foolishness is exploited deliberately in
London to that end. But John Storey
has already begun to look further ahead:
wherefore within a day or so of taking office
he set out to explain the subtle distinction
between the evil of hereditary honors and
the harmlessness, even the beneficence, of
titles for life.
* * • *
Of course there is a case for the retention
of the old system; and no one sees the
strength of it better than a politician who
has struggled into power with a small
majority and little or no cash for propa-
ganda work. The sale of titles has been
recognised for years all over the Empire as
a legitimate means of adding to the funds
of the party which happens to have the
disposal of them. The authorities in Aus-
tralia have a reputation for profiteering in
such goods. With us a social aspirant is
liable to pay as much for a 1v.8.E. as would
get him a baronetcy in the Carlton or the
National Liberal Club, and sums have been
spent on Iv.C.M.G.’s which, intelligently laid
out elsewhere, would have returned Baronies.
But such details, after all, concern only the
party negotiators and those who deal "with
them. The point is that certain large sums
are always available to be poured into the
coffers of the Ministry of the day for a con-
sideration over which it holds a monopoly.
Ministers know that their rivals used the
power so acquired against them, and that
if given the chance they will do it again.
'Storey and Ids colleagues would be different
from any administration, Labor or other-
wise, that N. S. Wales has known since
Parliamentary government began, if they
cheerfully abandoned this weapon, being well
aware that their opponents have no inten-
tion of doing anything so idealistic. There
may be no buyers at the moment; and if
there were it would be hardly decent -to
supply them at so early a stage. A new
Government, with one of those majorities
which is always liable to “fall over the
banisters,” has in any event a poor status
in such matters; and, furthermore, the
Prince of Wales is here with authority to
bestow unrecommended, or “lightning.”
decorat : ons. So. Ministers are taking the
long view. They don’t dream of opening
up stock in their Knighthood Department
yet awh'le; and, so far as baronetcies are
concerned, they will no longer deal in them
—remembering, possibly, that but a single
effective one has been bestowed in the his-
tory of Australia! But they have not
the slightest intention of sacrificing one of
the key political industries out of hand; and
hence, in part, at any rate, the insurgency
of some of the Government's more con-
sistent followers, and the approximate pro-
testing swoon of the Premier.
•»* * * «
There is really noth'rrg aga ? n*t the Irntfl?
ing-out of titles apart from the sinister re!**-


tion the practice has to the political life of
the country Thev do no other leal haim to
X™! 2d they-gratify, the recipient, and
their womenfolk. But it there is mo y
the trade—as there is—iit should g° not to
any of the parties but to the State,
the present arrangement a few rich men may
subs'dise, and to that extent assist to eep
in power, a party which is possibly rotten
and ruinous to the interests of the electors
in general. And there can be no defence,
either, of the hole-and-corner way in which
the business is conducted. A result ot it is
that one man may disburse thousands and
get nothing, while another by the shrewd
expenditure of as many hundreds, rolls home
the colloquial equal of a baronet whose title
dates from James 11. An undesirable effect
is to discourage the socially ambitious trom
gambling on public donations, and to induce
them rather to concentrate on the party
eash’er.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Penalty of Going-Slow.
Belgium takes a different view of things,
and, though it is a little country, its logic
may be big. The present Belgian idea is to
increase the hours of work and the wages till
a serious cris.s is surmounted. There are
three objects in view. One is to reduce the
foreign debt, which is draining the land of
interest and which is always liable to drain
it of more and more interest, because the
foreigner puts a few extra per cent, on his
rate every time a loan has to l>e renewed.
Another is to get rid in every possible respect
of the importer—the agent for the foreign
manufacturer who takes advantage of a de-
pendent country’s helplessness to put up the
price of sewing cotton from 24d. to Is. per
reel, and of serge for the workman’s clothes
from ss. to 30s. per yard, and of paper 000
per cent, and other things to correspond. The
third idea is to get a lot of building done, not
only to repair war damage, buff to catch up
arrears, so that the Belgian infant may not
be crowded like a sardine or forbidden alto-
gether on the plea that babies aren’t wanted
in flats. In fact, Belgium says it is too
poor to k.eep those two bloated and ravenous
white elephants, the foreign creditor and the
importer, so it means to get rid of them and
be rich again. Provided good and intelligent
work is done (not the inventing of needless
public works or mere wharf-lump ng) it is
easier to get 2s. 6d. an hour for nine hours
than Is. Gd. an hour for six hours —to get
the extra Is. partly in cash and partly in
reduced prices. When the two foreign
collectors of perpetual tribute and perpetual
indemnity—the two eternal, irresponsible, un-
controllable profiteers, the bondholder and im-
porter—are got rid of there begins to be
some real money in a country to pay wages
with. Depreciated paper isn’t real money.
Australian paper money isn’t so inflated
and depreciated as some, yet the alien who
sells us clothes and machinery and sugar
only gives, in some cases, about 13s. 6d. or
14s. worth, nominal value, of his high-priced
goods for £l, the difference or loss or swindle
be : ng called exchange. And every time the
worker leaves off an hour earlier he
reduces local production and increases
the purchase of the alien goods of
which we get 13s. 6d. worth for £l.
Then the value to himself of each remain-
ing hour grows less. He may not get 3d. an
hour but owing to increased prices he
gets 3d. worth less goods. As working hours
diminish below the point which will keep a
country self-supporting and out of debt, the
value of each hour diminishes also. It is a
beastly way of burning the candle at both
ends, but arithmetic is built that way ; and
even if the Labor party had 99£ per cent, of
the votes in both Houses, it couldn’t alter
the unalterable facts.
♦
Apprentices and the High Cost of
Living.
Mr. Cox, representing' Sargood Brothers, giving
evidence before the Necessary Commodities Com-
mission, said that they could not get sufficient gar-
ments made in Sydney. Labor was the trouble. He
thought that a great number of machines in Sydney
were idle. ‘His firm had had to go to Newcastle to
get garments made. Blankets were difficult to sret.
and had been so even before the war.... The
American blanket was not so good as the locally-
made article... .There was a shortage of material
for both men’s and women’s clothing. They had
to depend on the imported article. Two samples of
cloth were produced, one of Australian manufacture
and the other British. Witness said the quality
was much the same. The local article cost 6s. where
the British article cost ljs. Did. About 31 to 3%
yards of material on the average would make a
man’s suit.
It is the policy of the new school of Labor-
leaders to strictly limit the number of
learners in every trade—to do so to such an
extent that the capable workers don’t in-
crease with population or with the needs of
the country, but the trades rather tend to
die out. This affects the men who build
woollen factories, the men who make the
machinery for them, and the men who use
the factories and machinery when they are
built. One result is the addition of about
31s. to the cost of a suit as regards the
cloth alone. The tariff alone cannot remedy
this: even the difference of Bs. per yard
has failed to create skilled workmen where
there were none. But while the output of
high-class artisans is limited and regulated
there is no limit on the production of news-
boys, milk-boys, juvenile rabbiters, or that
impoverished person the cocky-farmer’s son,
who toils on the old man’s farm till lie is
20 or more with no stated remuneration but
an occasional “bob” or two to go to the
Show with. The output of that very little
skilled class which has no trade except the
making of loan railways and which is help-
less when the railway loans give out is un-
restricted ; likewise the output of importers’
clerks. The lamentation about the cost of
living is incessant; but when it is the policy
of Labor to restrict local production and buy
instead the most ordinary articles abroad at
2\ times the needful and reasonable price,
the cost is likely to be still higher. In
France, though this particular trouble is not
so bad as it is here, the Legislature has pro-
hibited the importation of clothing, jewel-
lery and a long list of other articles. If
the country makes them for itself it may
have them, but the nation’s money is not
going out to pay for them while the foie.gn
debt is in such need of reduction. If the
Hughes Ministry would leave oft shivering
and try the same masterful device things
might happen. Australians are supposed to
be an upstanding folk, but the procession of
mostly unmarried male witnesses who have
testified to various Commissions that they
considered the wearing of dungarees a dis-
grace. that they regarded shabbiness as a
crime, that they made a pomt of being
“elegantly dressed,” that imported silk socks
were essential to their comfort, and that
the use of ready-made clothes tui working
purposes was not to be thought of. suggests
otherwise. It hints that a young-lacjlike
element is cree'ping into the male community
—something burn of easy borrowing, loo
few of the people are making iron things
and too many are unpacking ladies hats.
Fussing Round the Wheat.
A suspicion arises in influential quarters
that too many people are on the same job.
Wheat, for instance, is a pet subject, and
almost everybody in authority feels impelled
to fuss over it like an elderly hen with uue
chicken. The Federal Government has
guaranteed a minimum of 5s. per bushel.
It isn’i much, but it is a good deal for such
a profoundly embarrassed institution, and
no manufacturer gets any guarantee at all.
The Storey Ministry, in the flush of its
political youth and the burning heat of its
desire to restore complete Parliamentary
control, now comes forward with a promise
of another 2s. Gd. per bushel so far as the
Ma State is concerned. It does this on no
authority save its own, for Parliament isn’t
sitting, and does it despite the fact that it
swears there isn’t a bean in the Treasury.
Now, if the shire council of Dandaloo would
guarantee a further 2s. Gd. per bushel within
its own territory, Dandaloo would be a
paradise within a paradise inside another
paradise, and the third cook at the broth,
and the real centre of civilisation and the
hub of finance. In fact, the future of Dan-
daloo would be assured, and the Federal
capital would be planted there immediately.
Meanwhile, as a counterblast, the Federal
Income Tax Department is bombarding the
drought-stricken farmer with this: —
Dear Sir. —•
INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT. 1915-18.
Wheat Pools.
In connection with the above Pools the following
particulars are required:—
1915-16 Pool. From 1st July, 1915—39th June, 1916.
(a) Number of bushels placed in Pool.
(b) Cash advances received.
1916-17. From 1st July, 1916—30th June, 1917.
(a) Number of bushels placed in Pool.
(h) Cash advances received.
(c) Total cash dividends received during the period
from the 1915-1916 Pool.
1917-18 Pool. From 1st July, 1917—30th June, 1918.
(a) Number of bushels placed in Pool.
(b) Cash advances received.
(c) Total cash advances received during the period
from the 1915-1916 Pool. .
(d) Total cash dividends received during the period
from the 1916-1917 Pool.
If any certificate or scrip sold state:
Date.
Number of bushels.
Which year’s scrip.
Cash received.
Almost any enraged farmer would give 50
acres of crop to have one month’s brief
authority so that he could send the Com-
missioners a demand like this and let them
know how it feels: —
MY OWN ASSESSMENT ACT—1920.
Wheat Fools.
(a) What colored pants were you wearing on
1st Jrlv. 1915 ? . _
(b) Did you have your hair cut on 30th June,
1916. and if so
Where ?
Why?
How long ?
How short ?
State disposal of hair.
Farmers aren’t necessarily expert book-
keepers by double and treble entry. If they
were they would not be running farms. Also,
many an expert doesn’t preserve such elabo-
rate details of his affairs as this calls for
unless warned in advance that they, may be
wanted, and there was no such warning. All
details asked for at the time have been
given long ago. and the returns have been
accepted, and the tax paid (or dodged),
and even the most accurate farmer became
lax about the ancient history. It isn’t
likely that the dismal red-tapeists will make
enough out of this inquisition to pay for
the stationery, and among those who receive
the documents any gratitude arising from
the guarantee of 5s. per bushel will be
swamped in the confusion. Also some of
the gratitude which might arise over John
Storey’s extra half-crown has been dis-
counted by the fact that, one year when
the N. S. Wales farmer had collected 2s. 6d.
per bushel from the Fool (he got 7d. later,
making 3s. Id.), the N. S. Wales Labor
Government’s Department charged income
tax on 4s. because somebody in Sydney
valued the wheat at that. Only language
that verged on personal violence secured a
reduction to 3s. Gd. There are too many old
office liens fussing around the wheat.
The Turk Learns His Fate.
Turkey was brought before the judgment-
seat last week; and the sentence proved a
swingeing one. But not more so than every
Turk of sense must have anticipated. The
end of the war found the Middle East
faced with a number of “accomplished facts”;
and nothing is more unusual than for a
well-beaten Power to upset au “accomplished
fact.” Britain held Egypt. Palestine and
Mesopotamia; and in every real sense of
the word it will continue to do so. France
occupied parf of Syria; and by virtue of
the Sykes-Fichon Treaty the French will
control the entire country in the event of
the King of the Hedjaz proving impotent to
oust them. There is a slump in Feisae
and in the principle of Arabian nationaksm
at Downing-street just now; and the Emir,
if he is to dislodge the French, will have to
do it without so much a's dinlomatic assist-
ance from the Empire. It may not be exactly
equitable, but it is sound sense; the Arabia
which sprang to sudden life and force under
Mxdomet be : ng forever dead, as the modern
world understands political existence,
Armenia is to be free (no Power wants
Armenia) : ard any Turk who linsrers in
Smyrna will deserve all be gets, since it
is to be administered by the Greeks. The
Greeks are also to get Eastern Thrace. The
Turk, like the eel, is used to being skinned.
The process has been going on ingloriously
since 1827. In war after war Greece, Rou-
mania, Serbia and Bulgaria were freed from
the Sultan’s dreadful thrall. The Turks bore
it philosophically. Constantinople was left
to them, and it is worth all the rest. They
are still to hold Constantinople, with the
necessary proviso that the Dardanelles must
be internationalised. The latter condition
is due to Turkey’s past habit of arbitrarily
closing the Straits to shipping. Inside the
last decade the Sultan’s Government has
made this embarrassing move on three occa-
sions, and the world is sick of it. That
Turkey, after all the threats of the past 50
years, has been left in possession of Con-
stantinople—Constantinople, the strategic
and economic key to the Black Sea, and
the port through which the whole of the
enormous sea-borne trade of Russia and
Rouniania must pass—is due, no doubt, partly
to the difficulty of deciding what else to do
with it. and partly to the feeling of Britain
and France that in their present condition
they cannot afford to risk wounding Moslem
sentiment. In the circumstances the task
of the British and French diplomatists has
been to avoid a quarrel among themselves,
while pacifying the world’s Mohammedans
so far as is compatible with the demands
of business. In proportion as Mohamme-
dans all over the world are satisfied that a
fair thing has been done by the Ivhalifate,
so will there be comparative quiet in India
and the other centres of native rebellion,
and a consequent opportunity to trade profit-
ably—which, after all, is the chief end of
Empire. They may not really care two figs
about the Tartar Sultan: but millions of
them would probably pretend to. and that
would make things just as uncomfortable.
#
The Nose on James McCay's Face.
James McCay, Chairman of the Fair Profits
Commiss on (there are many Commissions
these days), was urged to sudden and pic-
turesque wrath recently and used a
figure of speech. It was, he said, as plain as
all the noses on all the faces in Victoria,
including his own, “that Australia must
manufacture all its own requirements—it is
the only chance the country has of getting
its goods at a reasonable price.” He was
moved to this by the revelation that excel-
lent tweed is made here at good wages and
reasonable profit for between Gs. and 7s. per
yard, but that for want of skilled maehinery-
makers, skilled builders and skilled weavers
the supply is only a rag in the ocean, and the
importer, who charges 15s. or more per yard
for the same quality, holds the market and
starves the people. It is the same in a score
of other lines. Unemployed human beasts
of burden —men who never learned any
trade in their youth—there are in thou-
sands; but they are an additional burden
rather than an asset, for they demand that
profitless loan jobs shall be found for them
under pain of the withdrawal of political
support. A little is being done by “vocational,
training” for returned soldiers —a case of
grown men going to school because
they didn’t go in their youth. This,,
however, only touches - the fringe of
the question. In reference to the
noses about which Mr. McCay grew ex-
cited, the Sydney Telegraph related the old
story concerning some outside firm which
would have invested £50.000 to begin with,
and more afterwards, in the woollen industry
here if guaranteed reasonable immunity
against strikes; but that being impossible the
Commonwealth is a woollen mill short. The
real trouble, however, isn’t with ordinary
strikes for better wages, which are all a
part of the day’s work. It lies first with
the new gang, largely made up of blatant
and ignorant aliens, who are allowed
by Labor to declare war against every
employer, however fair and reasonable,
who makes something for 65.. 6d. which
would otherwise have to be imported at
155., on the plea of putting down “capital-
ism” (the Australian brand only) and
abolishing “wage slavery.” This gang makes
trouble for State or Federal enterprise just
as joyously as for private enterprise, and
as it never starts any co-operative enter-
pr:se it apparently aims at making this
solely a land of agricultural serfs, jobbers
on loan works (while the loans hang out)
and importers—or else making it a desert.
The only industries that, its members don't
systematically block are (1) borrowing, (2)
import’ng, and (3) helping people on to the
land in regions where the water is carted
13 miles and the horse is a skeleton. No
Government has yet had the courage to
make the sentence long gaol without the
option for the advocates of repudiation,
or of the confiscation of factories and
workshops, or for the supporters of any
other form of disastrous thievery: neverthe-
less something of the kind is urgent. Instead
of this the preachers of this gospel of
national destruction (at. least they were
preachers in their pre-Ministerial days) are
to be found in two Cabinets. But. how-
ever much a man like James McCay may
be justified in throwing the brick of wrath
and' ti e clod of scorn at the existing state
of things, the Telegraph isn’t justified, nor
is the Herald, nor the. Argtts nor any other-
of the dull journalistic dogs of Freetrade.
This is part—only a part-s-of the case
against them: —
• They systematically belittled Australian manufac-
tures —the concerns which, if they were big enough
to supplv Austral'a’s needs, could now reduce the
cost of living one-half. They exalted the quality of
imported goods as against Australian, and boomed
the importer—the well-entrenched shark (if a shark
in a trench can be imagined) who is now in a
position to put up the cost of living 250 per cent.
Seme of them, especially the Argus, haven’t, got
rid of this habit yet.
They taught their silly dupes that the Austra-
lian manufacturer was an enemy, a ravening pro-
fiteer, a thief who robbed the people hv tariff and
other devices, a purveyor of bad goods, a • person of
no. patriotism, and generally a creature of scorn.
Nothing that the maddest I.WAV. crank says about
- Australian, manufacturers is so bad as ranch the
“respectable” Freetrade press has said or implied
about him, though it may be less polite.
They preached to a dull and credulous generation
that a country could get along (could get along
better, in fact) without manufactures—that it could
live by going on the land and building loan rail-
ways on top thereof,
Also, when they did talk, now and then, about the
establishment of some big manufacture here, it was
always about some beneficent absentee —the importer’s
cousin—who was willing to condescend to. invest
£50,000 and spend the profits in London. And
the country disliked absentees.
The I.W.W. sort of person who advocates
the destruction or the stealing of Australian
factories and workshops, aDd who teaches
that an Australian (but no one else) is an
ehemy and an outcast simply because he
employs our own union labor at union
wages, should get five years’ gaol to start
With, whether he is a Minister or anyone
else. And the Freetrade publisher who tries
exactly the same thing with fabricated
statistics .should get the same sentence. In
fact, he should go to gaol first because he
started first. He is not so plentiful as he
was, but he still ex’sts.
» .....
Pilsudski and a Piano-Player.
The man who said that the Great War had
its origin in the partition of Poland made
a .shrewd guess at the truth. Not till
Frederick the Great Robber stole Posen
and Dantzic from the Poles did the Prus-
sian military kingdom become a menace to
Western democracy. The Polish dam broken,
a flood of Muscovites and Tartars swept
down to the frontiers of Germany and Hun-
gary, and Russia, till then mostly As’atie
and barbarous (even in the Russian army
that invaded France in 1813 there were
savages armed with bows and arrows),
definitely became a European power. The
acquisition of Galicia by the third robber-
State only added a new lot of explosive
material to the powder magazine that was
Austria. From the day the crime was con-
summated it was inevitable that the thieves,
brought thereby into close and jealous asso-
ciation, would quarrel. AH their military
programmes were framed on the expectation
that they would quarrel.. Long before
Prtnzip the Bosnian fired the shot that
started the explosion, each prepared for a
war in which Poland was to be the battle-
ground. And in the end the war came, and
Poland was the battleground, and the three
bandit empires have fallen and Poland has
risen from its ruins. What Revolutionary
France was unable to do for the Poles in
17115, the year of the third partition, France
and Italy and America and the British
Empire did last year and more, and the
descendants of the- rulers who plundered
Poland are dethroned fugitives all. Which
shows that there is such a thing as retri-
butive justice. In some respects the resur-
gence of the Polish Republic is the most
astonishing fact of modern history. It may
prove to be one of those things that are too
astonishing to last. When Germany threw in
the towel the Poles summoned Paderewski
the piano-player from his concert-grand and
made him their President. But Pader-
ewski was too placid to suit the Polish
temperament-—he acquiesced in the Polish
clauses of the Peace Treaty, which infuriated
the patriots of Warsaw—and after killing
a few Jews to show their dissatisfaction his
people sent him back to his Beethoven
sonatas and Chopin nocturnes. His suc-
cessor is one Pilsudski, a soldier. In the
early part of the Great War, Pilsudski
fought in the Austrian army against
the Russians, but when Russia was
down and out he became such a thorn
in the side of the conquerors—being neither
pro-Greman nor pro-Austrian, but, above all
things, pro-Pole—that they put him in
prison. Pilsudski seems to have tolerated
the Paderewski regime until the dreamy
piano-player had exhausted his popularity,
whereupon he vaulted into the saddle with-
out opposition. Meantime he was methodi-
cally drilling an army of GOO,000 men for
service in Russia, or, if the Huns showed
fight, in Germany, obtaining the weapons
and stores from France and Britain and the
money from America. In the days of its
greatness Poland governed Lithuania and the
Ukraine, of both which territories it was
deprived by the Peace Treaty, and what the
Allies refused to give them the Poles have
determined to get for themselves. Cheered
on by Winston Churchill and the Imper-
ialists of Paris, they have invaded the
Ukraine and seized Kieff, and if they can put
a barrier between Bolshevism and its richest
granaries the end of the Red Frenzy is not
far off. But whatever the result of the
latest Polish war against Russia, Poland’s
deadliest enemy is on the west. In sullen
fury the Huns stor'd by while Polish garri-
sons entered the forts of Thorn and Posen
and Allied troops took possession of Dantzic.
The thrusting of a wedge of Polish territory
between one part of Germany and another —
a bad diplomatic blunder —has given the.
Huns a bitter and unforgettable grievance,
and the senseless pogroms against the Jews
have made every Polish Jew a pro-German
—and there are three million Jews in Poland
—bes'des costing Pilsupstci the. support of
all the international Hebrews who have
their noses in the pie of world-finance. If
the Poles don’t curb then 1 propensity for
Jew-baiting their infant Republic may dis-
appear in a whirlwind of writs. But the Hun
is their principal danger, and the apparition
of IIlN"’ " t trg riding into Warsaw amidst
a tempest <f hoarse cheers in Yiddish must
hauut Pilsudski in his sleep.
The Trouble in Papua.
“Lex” sums it up:—
The white traders began the present row by attack-
ing Murray. They are mostly men who look upon
a tropical dependency as a place to be exploited,
more or less regardless of the best ■ interests of f’ 1r>
native inhabitants. Many of them have operate on
these lines in other parts, and they are unable to
understand or appreciate any other policy. They are
good men according to their lights: but the lights
are old. The Commonwealth, as personified by
Murray, stands for the new system. When the
white planters of Oeylon began to be punished for
assaulting Cingalese and Tamils there was a scan-
• dalised outcry. The old hands considered it senti-
mentalism gone mad. There is a similar feeling-
in Paoua to-day, only instead of being directed at
the British Government it is aimed at Australia.
Murray’s attitude is one of Olympian indifference.
His main business, according to the terms of Iris
commission, is to govern Papua in the interests of
the native inhabitants. He is doing it; and the
fact that he obviously find's the job congenial only
heightens his offence in the eyes of those who believe


mwi
yiusfra.li& ”
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, lees. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager,
IN THE DINING ROOMS or
PRIVATE ROOMS at Runcheon.
Dinner or Supper—All meals served
a la carte. Order early and avoid
delay.
f
FF
in ;i certain amount of Prtissianism in dealing; with
niggers.
The row having been precipitated by the traders,
the Papuan community naturally split into two
factious. On the one side were Murray and his offi-
cials the missionaries and (so far as they count)
the natives; on the other the whites whose prosperity
depends on the work of the natives. Loyalty to
Murray (and he is one of those who command
loyalty) impelled his officials in many cases to score
off his assailants. The bitterer the latter became
the more they were scored off. During the war
pretty well ail the world had experience of the ways
of officials. They can be extraordinarily petty-
hiinded and maddeningly tyrannous. Papua has
its quota of that sort, and the more the white
traders kick against the pricks the more they are
made to feel the weight of the official hand. The
natives have sized up the situation, and the fact
does not make things any pleasanter for such of
their employers as are neither missionaries nor Gov-
ernment servants.
The whites have petitioned the Federal Govern-
ment and been scorned; and they have laid their
case before Downing-street and been spurned. They
are now talking (1) of a Boston tea-party with
Murray and his staff in the role of the tea; (2)
of declaring Papua a republic and running it as an
independent State after the deportation of Murray
and the missionaries; and (3) of abandoning the
island to its pampered inhabitants and seeking their
fortunes elsewhere.
They have a case against the Administration as
regards the latter’s neglect to develop the place.
There is no railway. There is only one road out
of Port Moresby. Port Moresby is in a dry belt.
Water could be brought by gravitation from Sapphire
Creek, 18 miles away, to the great advantage of the
community. But the Government makes no move.
It is that sort of Government—an institution
which is strong on vague benevolence towards
the native brother, and full of indignation against
those who would basely exploit him, but which has
little leaning towards strenuous toil.
“A Mere European” wants quick action: —
Australia would be one of the most attractive
parts of the world for immigrants if it were not
for the hostility of so many of the population of
the large Australian cities to immigration.
Australia is a continent not effectively occupied.
It cannot be defended without a sufficient popula-
tion settled throughout the land. The Governments
have never taken proper steps to settle it. Judging
by the writings and speeches of many Australians, the
prevention of immigration seems to them more
important than the defence of Australia or its
effective occupation. Yet it were better by far that
Australia should spend what money is procurable
on immigration rather than upon guns, warships
and aeroplanes, even though these also are neces-
sary. But immigration to be effective requires much
more thorough preparation and organisation than
any yet thought of by Australian politicians. It
involves the education of Australian people as to
the need of an increase in production to a scale
commensurate with the financial obligations of the
Commonwealth and States—a scale so vast that the
immediate doubling of the present population, if it
were practical, would not suffice. It involves also
(he recognition by Australians of the effect of the
Great War in increasing the inter-dependence of
civilised States and the birth of internationalism.
Increased production is not required in Australia
solely for Australia. It is also required for the
world by virtue of the rights of man. The world
is short of food and wool and other things Aus-
tralia can supply. The white races in Europe are
in peril. Millions are starving. Thousands of
children are dying. And some forms of the disaster
may reach Australia sooner than we think. If Aus-
tralian Governments cannot or will not rise to
the occasion, then internationalism will step in and
supervise or supersede the incompetent and dis-
credited Parliamentary Governments of this great
continent.
A military order issued last week strips the
chaplain of his officer’s rank. This is right.
And the principle should be pushed a lot
further. Non-combatants of all kinds should
be affected. Let them have steps of their
own, but not the same steps as the fighting
man. It did not seem to matter once. But
it is proved to matter now. We have had
“colonels” .and “majors” who looked after
comforts funds using their titles for elec-
tioneering and other purposes. Bkuntnell
did not go back to his old Salvation Army
days and woo a patriotic N.S.W. electorate
as a brigadier; yet he did just as much fight-
ing, before the war and during it, as others
who paraded as colonels and so on. Indeed,
the chaplain is more punctilious than most
non-combatant “officers.” He does usually
call himself “chaplain-captain” or whatever
he may have been. . The man who was a
comforts fund commissioner in Cairo or Lon-
don never has the grace to call himself
socks-colonel.
“Arradni” ; The ocean forecasts issued daily
by Melbourne Meteorological Bureau are
poor things, and for the most part are
scorned by masters trading on the coast.
Perhaps once a week there is an accurate
forecast; but it often happens that when the
Bureau gives warning of a cyclonic disturb-
ance on the Bananaland coast the trouble
beats the warning by several hours. It isn’t
the meteorologist’s fault. The absence of
data from the N'.-W. coast is notorious; this
is due to interruptions to interstate (mostly
W.A.) telegraph lihes. Yet this informa-
tion. more than any other, is vital for suc-
cessful ocean forecasts. What I suggest is
this. Mount (lainbier radio is, as all wire-
less men will agree, unnecessary* owing to
the highly sensitive receiving apparatus now
used aboard ships. No difficulty is ever
experienced in raising either Melbourne or
Adelaide radios from points between those
statiohs. Mt. Gambiers work for the day
consists of saying “G.M.” to Adelaide (his
controlling statioh) at 9 a.m. and “G.N. at
5 p.m. (His hours are 9 a.m. till 5 p.m. Mon-
day to Friday inclusive, and 9 a.m. till 1 p.m.
on Saturday. No service on Sundays!) I've
been on the coastal run continuously for
nine months, and have never heard this sta-
tion working a ship. Why on earth is good
taxpayers’ money wasted on its upkeep ?
This station (power 5 k. w.), if situated on
the Willis Group, could easily, using long
wave-length, communicate with either Mel-
bourne or Sydney with no delay, and it
could warn shipping of approaching storms.
A Macquarie Island station is also highly
important from a meteorological viewpoint.
The one formerly there was dismantled dur-
ing the war, with a promise that it ivould
be re-opened when hostilities ceased, but so
far no move has been made to do it.
“
Thk Minister for Defence says that the order
forbidding the promotion of Duntroon gradu-
ates at the Front to battalion commands was
issued because it was better that the Duu-
trooners .should be given wide staff experi-
THE OBSTINATE GALATEA.
PYGMALION WILSON: “I don’t believe she is ever coming to life!”
ence in view of their future use as officers
on home service. Of course this is the only
conceivable excuse for such an order, but if
it is bona fide these facts are to be con-
sidered :
(1) The chief weakness of the Duntroon system
is that the graduates (except the few who go to
the artillery) get no experience as regimental or
commanding officers.
(2) Owing to the order citizen-officers had to be
promoted over the Duntrooners’ heads. This gave
many soldiers the impression that Duntroon training
was not only unnecessary but disadvantageous in
the field—a notion which still persists in some
quarters.
(3) In view of Pearce’s explanation one would
expect that Duntrooners who obtained the greatest
staff experience would, on their return, be given a
staff grading at least equal to that of men of the
same seniority who were invalided home early owing
to the fortune of war. But that is not so. Service
in Australia is regarded as more important in
deciding a staff-officer’s grading than the most
efficient service in the field.
(4) In effect, the system by which the Dun-
trooners were not allowed to use their ability to
the full extent put Australia’s future needs before
the immediate interests of the Allies.
Peabce’s Department seems unable to grasp
the fact that other questions were involved
than those of rank. The difference
between a major’s pay and that of
•i lieur -colonel amounts to a consider-
able sum spread over a term of years,
4.1 so certain decorations were not given
to majors but Went to nearly every
efficient lieut.-Colohel. Those affected, there-
fore lost not onlv rank but pay and decora-
tions- found Coveted staff positions filled
before their return, and derived no benefit
from Promotion awarded for distinguished
service in the field And yet when somebody
in Parliament says that Pearce’S Depart-
ment suppresses ability Pearce gets as wild
as such a poor, pallid creature can.
Education Minister James (N.fe.44.)
talked about charging new schools and old
school repairs to loans, but some fragments
of » conscience mode him hesitate nod he lost
his chnnce. Minister Motet of th,, new
Cabinet, is ready o • , T‘ t) h i|
uHilion school-loan follows haid on the heels
of Storey s two million fa ~, t L '
In fact, the Iro g ts■ • <• ‘ , ,
rate ot £1.000,000 of loansi p ,’ ’ ■
I miner has also de ou c d
habit. The biography of the future Cornstalk
will read: “His mother collected the baby
bonus in the blankth year of the century and
he received tlm rudiments of his borrowed
education at Bustville Public Debt school, an
up-to-date institution which cost £17,000 at 6i
per cent. Afterwards he attended the High
Loan school,one of the most embarrassed seats
of learning in the State, and later took
his decree at the Mortgaged College, where he
greatly distinguished himself. Becoming an
engineer he entered the Government service,
where he built many important public works
that aren’t paid for and never paid interest
and aren’t expected to. His burial, which was
the only cash episode in his life, was largely
attended, and as he was dead he can't be
held responsible for this irregularity.”
Piddington, K.C., of the Interstate Com-
mission, holding one of the countless inquiries
into the cost of living, professed astonish-
ment that, though a living wage had been
declared in N. S. Wales, the Common-
wealth was paying less. Well, if the Com-
monwealth should be governed by the State’s
award, what is the good of Piddington’s
inquiry? Of course, the whole business is
wasteful and ridiculous. Because the States
have control of labor and industry in part
and the Commonwealth has also control in
part, there is a multiplication of courts
and a ridiculous excess of inquiries cover-
ing the same ground; and apart from the
waste of time and money the difference in
awards is a constant source of irritation.
Yet every time it is proposed that control
of labor and industry should be handed over
completely to the Commonwealth there is
a yell of “Hands off State rights!” and,
because State rights are supposed to be
something like the ark of the covenant,
the parish pump scores another victory.
“Kopai”: It is decreed that demobilised
officers in the A.I.F. must wear “minia-
ture decorations” with evening-dress during
the princely visit. A miniature M.C. costs
£2 or £3 ; a D.S.O. runs to a tenner. Many
of the captains and majors of the A.I.F.
have become carpenters, schoolmasters and
clerks again. A regulation which tempts
such men to “blew” a week’s or a fortnight's
wages on miniature copies of medals they
already own in full size is a piece of non-
sense only a Department with its head
buried in the sand could conceive.
To compensate for the loaf during the
Prince’s visit, the Federal Government has
increased the number of sitting days each
week by one, and made a tremendous parade
of the bills that are demanding urgent at-
tention. All the same, it found time the
other day to introduce the Supplementary
Estimates for 1917-18 and 1918-19, and ask
approval for expenditure that has long since
passed into the mists of history. Every now
and again the same old farce is repeated,
and Parliament solemnly votes the spent
cash with a secret feeling that it has no
more control over the Treasury than the
man outside.
One result of 11.C.D. is that a number
of people are now going where there is no
cost of living problem, at all —only a long,
quiet sleep. These are the boarded-out State
children of Victoria. The Government
allowance to the foster-mothers of these
infants is only 7s. (id. a week, or at most
10s., and the natural consequence is that
the unfortunate innocents are being given
up by their foster-mothers. So the Royal
Park Receiving Home, which usually accom-
modates a floating population of 40, now
holds 200! Healthy children mix with dis-
eased ones; the place is overcrowded and
understaffed ; the small staff is shamefully
overworked and underpaid ; medical super-
vision is inadequate, and the death-rate is
abnormally high. They have no votes, no
unions, no protectors, no anything. They
are just poor little Australians asking for
a chance to live, and being denied it by the
hateful thing we call our advanced civilisa-
tion, whose ofher name is selfishness.
The alien has never got much of a footing
in Tasmania, which probably explains why
Ogden, leader of the Speck’s Parliamentary
Labor party, can hold and freely express
sound views about the madness of slowing
down always and knocking off work often.
The Tasmanian leader sees two or three
things quite clearly: (1) nobody can get
more out of a pint-pot than is put into it;
(2) the more the workers put into the pot
the more it is possible for them to get out
of it; and (”) if they believe in legislative
action, then those who believe in direct action
have no right within their party. Ogden
is wise in stressing the last point. Hobart,
with its splendid deep-water harbor and its
hydro-electric possibilities, has a good chance
of becoming the biggest manufacturing and
distributing centre in the Commonwealth’;
and if it can satisfy the men with the capi-
tal necessary to establish industries that
Tasmania will have no truck with Bolshev-
ism, it is going to have a still greater pull.
The world’s enormous industrial develop-
ment during the last 20 years prior to the
war was due largely to the fact that people
with money felt secure in investing it; and.
equally, a large part of the present mad out-
break of extravagance, especially at the
other end of the world, is due to the exact
opposite—a grave doubt whether it is worth
while saving money merely to invest it.
Whence comes much of the high cost of living.
“Fed Up”: I have seen Oxford “rags,”
carnivals at Nice, the London Empire on
Boatrace Night, and Latin Quarter students
celebrating on Montmartre; but for combined
heavy-handedness and bad manners the Syd-
ney ’Varsity lads beat the lot. The fact is
the Australian is not a natural reveller. His
humor is of the reserved and saturnine kind.
The undergrad, feels that he is expected to
be light and sparkling once a year, and he
works hard to supply the goods; but the
inevitable result of his temperament is that
he makes a painful galoot of himself. That
would not matter much if it weren’t that in
Sydney the celebrants take the city for their
province. In London anyone who isn’t
anxious to become involved in obscenity and
drunkenness has merely to avoid Leicester-
square while the students are in possession.
In Sydney there is no escape. This kind of
trouble is progressive unless it is firmly
checked (as witness the dimensions reached
at one time by the New Year festivities) ;
and the undergrads, fully reached the limit,
from the standpoint of the citizens’ comfort,
on last Saturday. It is no more tolerable
that Sydney and its public building shall
be handed over annually to destructive and
offensive youths of the professional classes,
than that it should be similarly placed at
the mercy of boorish and vainglorious navvies
or artisans. An equitable solution would be
for the ’Varsity lads to provide their imita-
tion of old-world boyishness in the spacious
grounds of their colleges ; and for the Gov-
ernment to see that they don’t do it any-
where else.


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will be primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence.”
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
[2
THE DISGRACE OF WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A former member who had occupied a seat in
the House of Representatives for many years—a good
party man— had been obliged, on losing his seat
to take a job of night watchman on a wharf That
was a e <bsgrace. ” — Ram} or cl, in justification
of the latest salary grab.
Mr. Speaker ’n’ gents, o’ the House of Reps.,
Listen till I unfold
A tale that will harrow
Your spinal marrow
And make your blood run cold.
It’s the tale of a chap who pouched his screw
For umpteen years and more,
Who always did
As his loaders bid—
A patriot to the core.
One of the sort that issues sink—
The sort that never are known to think.
He had no grouch nor special kink,
Rarely, if ever, refusing drink,
In the poker-room he’d lurk;
And yet they pelted him on his pink,
Pelted him out to work l
(Loud cries of “Shame!” “Monstrous!” “Direct
Action!” “Make it two thousand, Bammy, and we’re
with you!”)
11l fares the land where loans increase
And the public man decays;
His term being over,
In drought-proof clover
He should browse for the rest of his days.
A thousand a year should be his for life,
Two cars and liis choice of flats,
And a third to send
To a lady friend,
Like the economical Catts.
With a chalet remote from the vulgar throng,
A seaside cot when the sun is strong
And the chance of rivalling Graliame and Long,
His life should be one continuous song
Without a jolt or a jerk;
And vet, when his country’s vote goes wrong,
They sentence a bloke to Work!
(Scene of tumultuous emotions in which one honor-
able member fainted and another had to be revived
with smelling-salts. General retreat of the victims
of circumstances to the refreshment-room.)
N.S.W.
BARDI.
POLITICAL
POINTS
By an overwhelming majority the House
of Reps, has encouraged the Government to
proceed with the steps necessary to pay
members £lOOO a year. A membet may be
worth £l6OO a year—he ought to be: But
that-is not the point at present. Members
have just been elected, and they were
elected on a £6OO-a-year basis. The only
fair presumption is that if the election had
been' held on a £lOOO-a-year basis a quite-
different class of candidates would have pre-
sented themselves, and probably not one-half
of the present members would have had a
hope. That, at any rate, is how it would
work out in ordinary business. A job may
be worth £lOOO a year; but if you offer only
£6OO a year for doing it you won’t get 11000-
a year applicants, and you then don t do
justice either to the job or to the men who
might have been applicants if you put the
price up to £lOOO without calling for fresh
applications.
Treasurer Watt told the band of inter-
viewers who met him on his arrival in Lon-
don that Australia w T as “resolute for the
observance of the Peace Treaty.” “Does
Australia count on getting any cash?” asked
a polite pressman, looking up from his note-
book. “Yes,” replied Watt, “a large lump,
and not later than May, 1921!” Whereat
the audience smiled and went on taking notes.
But perhaps William Alexander had his
tongue in his cheek, too. W. Alexander can
put up a good bluff when he has nothing
in his hand, and he must have remembered
Hughes’s promise to the Diggers to exchange
their gratuity bonds for negotiable paper
•when the German indemnity blows along.
What is certain is that France and Belgium
have first call on the German indemnity, and
England has pretty well decided that her
share will be the core of the apple, if there
should be an apple. Australia will get no-
thing—except the pip.
Canada has about 3000 miles of border-
line marching with the United States on
the south, and a very long border on the
north-west, and a great deal more than it
wants on the west, where a thin strip ot
Uncle Sam cuts off half its Pacific sea-
board. In fact, Uncle is its only neighbor,
and he is on three sides, and _ there are
smuggling and fishing and criminal prob-
lems all along- the line. The British
Ambassador being rather sluggish over dis-
puted icebergs and the like, Canada has
arranged to have its own Minister at
Washington. Straightway it has dawned
on the Hughes Government that Australia,
which doesn’t touch the U.S. anywhere,
should have a Minister at Washington also.
This will fix another expensive parasite on
the Treasury unless the Billet-making
Ministry is spoken to with a firm hand.
On the proposal to help Federal members
to an additional £44,400 a year, Hughes
“spoke proudly of the fact that no member
of the Federal Parliament had ever sold his
vote. There had not been one instance of
bribery.” Very noble, but how does he know?
Has Hughes been a witness to every act of
every man who has sat in the Federal Par-
liament since 1901? The Prime Minister is
a lawyer and a clever lawyer, but he would
get a sultry time from any Judge of the
Supreme Court if he weighed in with an
atmospheric generalisation like that. He
would be bluntly reminded that it wasn’t
evidence, and it isn’t evidence: it is merely
one of those rhetorical extravaganzas which
public men whose minds have a pronounced
feminine basis let loose in emotional
moments. Doubtless the Australian Parlia-
ment has as clean a record as the next.
There have been cases in which hard-up tri-
bunes of the people had astonishing luck on
the racecourse, but that is neither here nor
STRANGE!
GO-SLOW PERSON : “Funny thing! The less I put in the shovel the longer it takes to
fill the harrow !”
there. The average Australian politician
isn’t addicted to selling his vote. Selling
posterity for votes is more in his line.
It looks as though Westralia will be the
first State to get rid of its Horrible Second
Chamber. In December, 13 of the political
relics of the Plesiosaurus period threw out a
Constitution Bill which would have given
the vote to all returned soldiers and to thou-
sands of miners and timber-workers who live
on company-owned leases and can’t qualify
under the ridiculous “£l7 clear annual value”
provision. The insult was taken quietly, but
it will be an issue at next year’s elections,
and the circumstances are such that even
the Mitchell Government won’t be able to
stand up for the Chamber. The only ques-
tion is whether the bump that is coming will
leave the Calamities damaged but still cap-
able of mischief or deposit them irrecover-
ably on the scrap-heap. Barely a third of
the Assembly electors have their names on
the Council roll, and the majority of those
entitled to vote never bother to do it. About
a third of them are clustered in the metro-
politan-suburban province, and when a
vacancy occurred the other day (a third of
the Troglodytes retire every two years) not
15 per cent, voted. Yet the upkeep of this
Home costs the State with the chronic deficit
about £25,000 a year!
Jurymen, like others, are demanding better
pay for their stuffy job. They should get
it. At the same time, why not have seven
jurymen instead of 12, and accept a 4 to 3
or 5 to 2 verdict? Then it would be impos-
sible for one bought or bull-headed character
to nullify things, and the work the five
released jurors could do in the time they
now waste would increase production. There
is nothing sacred about number 12. Scot-
land puts 15 in the box and accepts a majo-
rity verdict.
The conference of State Premiers, post-
poned while N.S.W. was busy swapping Hol-
man for Storey, is to hold counsel on many
things. Among them, of course, is the need
for a uniform railway gauge, which every-
body of mental importance has been notic-
ing for SO years or so. Just now the situa-
tion is especially aggravated by increase of
trade. The distance from Melbourne to
Sydney is nominally 588 miles. For goods
traffic it is really 1176 miles in easy times,
the break at Albury being 588 miles in itself
so far as time and loss are concerned. When
there is a rush and great congestion the dis-
tance between the two cities is 58S0 miles.
The distance between Melbourne and Bris-
bane for heavy freight in rush times is
exactly equal to that round the world. The
over-rated early rulers of Australia (“there
were giants in those days,” and giants are
a dull and beefy folk) are alleged on poor
authority to have considered a scheme for
making the sea of different gauges so that
goods and passengers would tranship where
the border touches the water, and were quite
broken up when they learned that it was
impracticable.
The restoration of whatever they had lost
to the law-breaking N. S. Wales railway
strikers of 1917 will cost a certain amount
of money, and, being itself illegal, will require
a special Act. It will be a full and complete
explanation to those who didn’t break the
law that there is no profit in standing by
their bond and doing the public a service.
Incidentally, the strikers didn’t ask for the
abrogation of all penalties as a concession.
They demanded it as a right, and called the
people “a brutish majority.” There is one
thing to be said in favor of the men who
have got temporary control of the Labor
movement: they don’t pretend to be demo-
crats, but declare frankly their preference
for minority rule.
The N.S.W. Labor Government has guar-
anteed farmers 7s. 6d. a bushel for their
next wheat crop. While it is doing this
large numbers of the rank and file of the
party cry that the employer plays no useful
part in the world, and that “labor ought to
have all it produces”—which is, of course,
quite true. The wheat-growing business is
the one in which of all industries the rela-
tions of employer and employee are least
marked. Most farmers are men working for
themselves, and with very little assistance:
where other men are employees they are
“independent.” And one result is that,
again and again, the State has to come to
the rescue of the industry and guarantee
minimum prices; while it has to grant extra-
ordinary concessions as a general thing. In
other words, the State has to do in this
industry what the employer does in a thou-
sand others. So the employer—“the capital-
ist employer”—does perform a function of
value. lie carries the business through
periods when it would otherwise cease to
exist, which would frequently mean disaster
to vast numbers even outside his employ-
ment.
Despite the fact that Vic. State servants
have had bonuses and increases in screw for
the financial year 1919-20, and may expect -
further additions in a couple of months, cer-
tain dissatisfied elements are talking of
demanding independent boards, and some are
even whispering darkly of hoisting the Jolly
Roger and playing the devil. Rut that won’t
come to anything: they have good reason to
suspect that the Lawson Government would
welcome a row just to sack some of them.
Though, again, Heaven knows why some
of them—in the Education Department
especially—should dread .sacking.
Sydney Telegraph, always the pink of
politeness, after the annual outbreak of the
undergrads:—
The organ was interfered with, the piano was
put out of action and many chairs in the Town Hall
were broken. Bands of students went round the
city, rushing into crowded restaurants and scaring
timid people out of their wits. At the Benno
Moiseiwitsch concert a side entrance was rushed,'and
a crowd of young fellows, shouting at the top of
their voices, marched up the passages, round by
the platform and out again.... But for their con-
duct during the day the undergraduates, and par-
ticularly their president and the committee, are
highly to be congratulated.
It gives a line to The Worker. The next
time it has to deal with a Bolshevik out-
break it will remark that beyond cracking
a skull or two and gouging out a few eyes
and stretching several blind men across the
tram-track, all in the playful spirit of ardent
youth, the revolutionaries behaved with their
usual admirable restraint.
The Hughes Government, which was will-
ing to risk indefinite millions of loan money
to finance co-operative soldier enterprises,
had a fit of economy when it was proposed
that blind pensioners in institutions should
be allowed to keep any money they earned
without having a corresponding reduction in
their pensions. There aren’t many; most of
them won’t live long ; probably without this
inducement many of them wouldn’t work at
all, so the concession would be no loss; and,
anyhow, this country produces so little and
imports so much that even a blind person’s
contribution should be encouraged.
Still another taxing authority has appeared
over the horizon. N.S.W. Liquor Trade,
which has to face the menace of a prohibi-
tion referendum before June, 1921, has
taken drastic steps to raise a fighting fund.
The wholesale trade recently decided upon
a contribution of a penny on every pound’s
worth of spirituous and fermented sold
to licensees, exclusive of N. S. Wales
beer and Australian wines, and num-
bered stamps are being issued for the pur-
pose. Thus a £lO sale made to any licensee
in N.S.W. is taxed 10d., and so in pro-
portion, and buyers naturally are keen in
their own interests to see that the stamp-
ing of their invoices is not overlooked. This
method of raising the wind is said to have
the endorsement of all branches of the Trade,
and will create an enormous reserve to deal
out stoush to the Alliance when the time
comes. Whether that deserving body will
now ask its pet drapers to do likewise is
another pair of sleeves.
From tweeds the dear old Argus has
wandered to aluminium goods, a factory
having lately been started in Brunswick
(Vic.), and it wails that prices for these
will presently soar sky-high Well, (1)
even if prices are lofty, % will still be
able to buy goods we W"- if we have the
money, which at we can’t, as
aluminium goods arc practically unobtain-
able anywhere; (2) even if the manufac-
turer’s * profits f_e outrageous and the
employees’ war:.? absurdly high, the money
remains in the country, which is thereby
so much tie better off; and (3) the Vic.
Fair Profits Commission can limit the prices,
anyhow; and that is a power it hasn’t got
over any foreign profiteering manufacturer
or shipping co.


THE PERSIAN KITTEN AND THE WELSH MOUSE.
“Mr. Hughes assured the House that, though the Anglo-Persian oil interests were exceedingly powerful, Australia would be able to get its own way in the co. which the Commonwealth was helping to finance to carry on business in this country”
THE MOUSE: “He’s perfectly tame, gentlemen. I can make him do anything.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Rearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BKOOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. ?.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire •
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
£15,000,000.
THE TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE CONTROL OF
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
EXCEED THIS FIGURE.
Thus Showing the Confidence in which it is held by the Public.
THIS COMPANY OFFERS MANY
ADVANTAGES OVER THE
PRIVATE TRUSTEE.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET SETTING
OUT PARTICULARS OF ITS
METHODS AND CHARGES.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Life Insurance Co. of Australia:
Total Deficit,
Out- including
Nov., Income. Expenses. Claims, goings. Goodwill.
1912 ..£10,989 £18,918 £3,715 £22,633 £19,644
Dec.,
1918 .. 23,851 19,809 6,350 26,159 21,952
1914 .. 33,412 23,951 7,655 31,606 20,146
1915 .. 36,892 22,986 10,277 33,263 16,517
1916 .. 40,172 21,651 8,661 30,312 6,657
Reserves.
1917 .. 49,298 27,225 11,430 38,655 3,986
Goodwill, £5OOO, disappears.. .. 8,986
1918 . . 61,414 40,127 8,209 48,336 22,064
1919 .. 84,335 55,927 9,857 65,784 40,610
That table sets out the combined operations
of three departments —Ordinary, Industrial
and Accident. Formerly provident business
was also handled, but over a year ago it was
dropped—probably. because of the militancy
of tne Vic. medicoes’ 0.8. U., which drove the
friendlv societies and others to employ non-
union doctors, a move which a life office
wishing to maintain an air of respectability
could not follow. . The withdrawal of the
sick-benefit and provident business, which had
been handled in conjunction with the In-
dustrial department, has resulted in the in-
come of that branch falling off by almost half
during the past year. Industrial premiums
and interest earnings brought in £6347, and
since only £943 of accident premiums and
interest were collected, £77,044 of the, income
shown in the table represented the Ordinary
department’s contribution. The Ordinary
business thus quite overshadows the In-
dustrial—and that takes the co. far from its
prospectus intentions. When the Life Assur-
ance' Co. of Australia was floated its prin-
cipal object was to “issue a cheaper and
better form of Industrial policy, offering
greater benefits than policies at present ob-
tainable from any other co.” Amongst other
things it set out to try to earn bonuses for
the industrial policy-holder. This laudable
object was to be attained by reducing the
heavy expense invariably incurred in writing
Industrial business and collecting its small
premiums, suburban and Country storekeepers
being organised as its collectors. Theoreti-
cally, it looked a promising method of gather-
ing in the cash economically; though it dis-
regarded the obvious fact that most store-
keepers were likely to be chiefly concerned
about getting, in their own book debts. To
what extent the scheme was put into opera-
tion The Bulletin does not know ; but what
is clear is that 64.6 p;c. of last year’s income
of £6347 went' in exes., which means that
only £35 Bs. of every £lOO got in was avail-
able for meeting claims, establishing funds
for the protection of policy-holders and pro-
viding the bonuses the co. hoped to pay.
Last year’s expenses in the Ordinary de-
partment, hoAvever, were even heavier than
in the Industrial. Here is the record of its
operations over the past four years:—-
Ordinary Department.
Loss Expense
Income. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1916. . £22.685 £1673 £12,087 7.4 p.c. 53.3 p.c.
1917.. 31,708 4268 17,306 13.4 „ 54.7 „
1918.. 48,372. 6796 30,627 12.0 „ 63.3 „
1919.. 77,044. 8537 51,257 11.1 „ 66.5 „
The expense rate has thus been making in the
wrong direction. This has .been due partly
to the management Avidening its field—during
the past year branches • in Queensland and
Westralia got to work, giving the co. a foot-
ing in every State —but chiefly to the pur-
suit of new business. For 19lS~ policies for
£635,222 of new assurances were written;
last year 3111 policy-holders seeking cover
for over a million were brought into the fold.
So, whereas £33,700 of premiums were
collected on policies previously written, last
year’s new business brought in £40,129 of
first-premiums. This new business is neces-
sarily costly—exactly how costly cannot be
definitely ascertained ; but assuming that 15
p.c. of renewal premiums went in handling
old business (with older offices The
Bulletin’s usual practice is to allow only
7 p.c., but in the case of a concern which has
been in business only eight years the outlay is
certainly much, heavier), and further assum-
ing that the new business ate the balance of
the year’s expenses, it cost about £122 to get
in every £lOO of the £40,129 of first-year pre-
miums. During the current year, however,
the L.C.A. is apparently not going after fresh
records in volume of new business written,
and if a reasonable proportion of the policy-
holders on the books at December 31 last
remain faithful, the next accounts should
see renewal premiums exceed the premiums
from new business for the first time. This
should result in a substantial reduction in
the expense rate.
The precise extent of the co.’s protection
for its policy-holders is not clear. It is now
two years since the actuary. testified that
funds were ample' to meet his estimate or
liabilities under policies; and though there
is no reason to doubt that all is not still
well, an actuary’s report would be welcome.
In fact, it should be obligatory on a young
co. to pass under the microscope at much
more frequent intervals than is the custom.
Further, the young life office which can go
out on the roads with the guarantee of its
actuarv newly-branded on it has the most
effective argument possible to meet the alle-
gations of competing bagmen. Besides the
reserves of £40,615 shown in the first table,
representing the amount of policy-holders
funds remaining after establishment and
organisation costs to date had been deducted,
shareholders have put up £44,000 of the
£71,500 they have made themselves respom
sible for. There are thus funds of £84,615
to protect policy-holders, and a further
£27,500 callable if things go badly. Of
the assets £52,430 is represented by public
securities and cash, £26,112 is out on mort-
gage or loaned on policies, and the rest con-
sists of odds and ends. Though in the intro-
ductory table the amounts spent on estab-
lishing the organisation are charged against
current revenue, actually it is shareholders’
capital which is at stake. Thus, no less than
£37,037 of the £44,000 they have put up
is at least temporarily lost. How soon it
will be before a start can be made to replace
this capital cannot be forecasted ; much de-
pends on how the management can hold on
to its old business gnd the extent to which
it can whittle down expenses. But there
will be many more grey hairs before the
L.C.A. will be in a position to declare a
dividend.
* * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney) :
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ -£,•£££
June, ’OB.. 8,066 7 p.c. =1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 . . 18,312
June, ’09.. 9,572 10 p.c. =2229 2924 4419 22,731
June, ’10..16,482 10 „ ~2229 6283 7970 30,701
June, ’ll. .10.779 10 ~,,3973 5311 1495 32,196
Mar., ’l2. . 7,555 10 „ ~3000 3669 886 33,082.
£4OO written off . . . . • • 32,682
Mar., ’l3. . 5,976 3 p.c. =2400 3164 412 33,094
Mar., T 4.. 10,018 7 ~,,2800 3784 3434 36,528
Mar., ’15.. 3,457 7 ~,,2800 2945 34,240
Afar., ’16..10,670 7 „ ~2800 4547 3323 37,563
Mar., ’17.. 9,631 7 „ ~ 2800 5902 929 38,492
Mar., ’18..12,381 7 ~,,2800 8167 1414 39,906
Mar., ’19..12,106 7 „ ~2800 7264 2042 41,948
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5OOO. . 36,948
Mar., ’20.. 8,868 7 p.c. =2BOO 6252 36,764
Transferred to Provident Fund, £lOOO . . 35,764
Since Jan. 1 this co.-op. concern has been
knocking down live-stock at Flemington. To
provide it with an opening in this business
Maiden Bros, were invited to amalgamate,
but on what terms they come in is not dis-
closed. The acquisition of the Maidens’
organisation and services have left no visible
mark on the balance-sheet, and the manage-
ment remarks that the expenditure incurred
by the amalgamation “has all been provided
for.” Presumably any purchase considera-
tion is included in the salaries and commis-
sions provided by the agreement under which
George and W. C. W. Maiden are retained
as managers, advisers and auctioneers of the
Co-op. Wool and Produce Co.’s stock and
station department. So far the co. has done
very well in its new enterprise, occupying
second place (the F. and G. Co-op. now
heads the list) for yardings. During the
three months to March 31 95,776 sheep, 3255
cattle and 1142 pigs passed under the co.’s
hammer. So, though the drought gave a
set-back to the quantity of wool handled,
resulting in curtailed commissions, gross
earnings for the year advanced to £44,682,
compared with £41,748 for the previous 12
months. But while income increased by
£2934, expenses, including bonuses to the
staff, expanded £5160; hence the falling-off
of net profits. There is one aspect of the
Co-op. Wool and Produce Co.’s earnings
which deserves mention. The Brokers’ Asso-
ciation fixes commissions at from 2$ p.c. on
small shipments down to 1$ p.c. The Co.-op.
charges 1} p.c. all round. In addition
to this concession, the smaller growers,
along with affluent consignors, receive
a rebate on commissions paid, whether
they are shareholders or not. For 1919
one-quarter of the wool charges and one-fifth
of the produce commissions were handed
back in this way. For the past year a re-
bate of 20 p.c. was made on all commissions,
including those earned in the newly-acquired
stock department. Thus the small consignors
to the Co-op. last year were charged com-
missions at a rate of only 1 p.c. of the gross
proceeds of their clips. During the past 10
years about £51,000 has been paid in bonuses,
and during the same period the concessions
to the smaller men have saved them pro-
bably a further £13,000. The co.’s capital
is only £40,000, but its liabilities are very
heavy, amounting to no less than £226,377;
this is mostly offset by the £186,801 of
sundry debtors, chiefly the Commonwealth
'Central Wool Committee, no doubt. The
book value of buildings (including a wool
and produce store at Pyrmont), plant, etc.,
is £73,363 and £6754 of stock, £45,000 of
M ar Loan and £177 of cash complete the
tally of assets. As the table shows, another
£lOOO has been dropped into the staff provi-
dent fund, and the directors intend tacking
on another £3OOO from future profits and
allowing interest at 5 p.c. p.a. on accumula-
tions.
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney) :—■
Writ-
_ „ . ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Sept., 1914.. £3152 Nil £607 £2SSB
Mar., 1915.. 1213 Nil 1194 2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.c. = £175 566 3208
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.c. = 350 300 2262
Written off Debenture Reserve 300 )
Written off other Reserves .. 773 ( H°9
Sept., 1916.. 196 sp.c.t= 175 1210
Mar., 1917.. 454 10 „ ~ 350 1314
Written off Debenture Reserve 500 814
Written off other Reserves .. 500 314
Sept., 1917.. 373 10 p.c. = 350 337
Mar., 1918.. 859 10 „ „ 350 846
Sept., 1918.. 771 15 „ „ 525 1092
Mar., 1919., 907 15 „ „ 5°5 1474
Sept., 1919.. 1180 25 „ „ 875 1779
Mar., 1920.. 1224 20 „ „ 700 2303
Over nine years ago this co. paid £10.500 in
cash and shares for the goodwill and outfit
of a Sydney restaurant in leasehold pre-
mises. Its popularity had been due to one
man’s efforts, Gaston Lievain, and three
months after the co. took over he dropped
out. Thereupon, instead of the 30 p.c. ban-
quets which the prospectus had talked of in
flaming red type, shareholders discovered that
the enterprise could not give them even a
plate of hash. Very soon the directors came
to the conclusion that the co. was heavily
over-capitalised, arid on overhauling assets
they decided that lO.s. per £1 share would
have to go to straighten things out. The
table goes back to the time when the clean-
ing-up was effected. Prior to this, however,
in addition to the Paris House restaurant
the lease and license of the adjoining Bal-
four Hotel had been acquired. So when the
co. began its new career with a paid capital
of £7ooo—-ns much had been swept away—
there were liabilities of no less than £8297.
However, the restaurant side of the busi-
ness became more and more difficult, and in
1915 it was again passed over to its ori-
ginal proprietor on lease. But Gaston Lie-
vain cooked his last poulct the other day,
and what will happen to the restaurant now
is not quite clear. The first table gives one
view of the progress which has been made
since capital was written down; here is
another:—
1914. 1920.
Liquid assets ..£6308 £10,204
Liabilities . . .. 8297 3,285
Excess liabilities ..£1989
Surplus assets .. £6,919
The liquid position has thus been improved
by £B9OB in 5$ years, and that is a com-
mendable recovery in view of the dividends
paid. After the current distribution to
shareholders all but £78.1 of their capital
—equal to Bs. lOd. per share —was repre-
sented by net liquid assets. In addition, if
the leases and plant were worth the full
£3784 shown in the books, there was a fur-
ther ss. sd. in the stocking; but the value
of the restaurant and its fittings depends
entirely on what is done with them now
Gaston Lievain has passed.
* * * *
N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co. (Wel-
lington, M.L.) :
Bonus on Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Purchases, serves.
,1910.. £1921 6 p.c. =£1766 £230 £3,785
1911.. 3912 6 „ „ 1766 251 5,680
1912.. 2524 7 ~ „ 2060 253 5,891
1913.. 2506 7 „ „ 2060 222 6,115 ■
1914.. 2456 7 „ „ 2060 230 6,281
1915.. 3198 7 „ „ 2060 405 7,014
1916.. 3682 7 „ „ 2060 374 8,262
1917.. 3774 8 ~ ~ 2354 707 8,975
1918.. 3741 8 „ „ 2354 669 9,693
1919.. 2968 8 ~ „ 2354 634 9,673
1920.. 4056 8 ~ „ 2354 913 10,462
That table goes back to just after the time
a bonus of 10s. per £1 share was distributed
in scrip. So the modest looking divs. have been,
to old hands, much better than they appear.
The co. is a co-operative concern, holders of
five or more shares receiving, in addition to
divs., 5 p.c. on their purchases. But whereas
the 8 p.c. div. for the past year swallowed
£2354, the 5 p.c. purchasers’ bonuses called
for £913, representing only £18,260 of pur-
chases. Since gross profits amounted to
£16,242, evidently either sales to co-operators
were small, or the greater proportion of its
turnover was at net prices. There is little
evidence as to the extent of the co-operative-
ness of the N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co.;
but whatever its precise nature, it has been
doing very well lately, the £4056 of net profits
for the past year having been possible after
paying away no less than £1305 in taxes.
Besides the paid capital of £29,431, at March
31 reserves and undivided profits amounted
to £13,730. All liabilities to the public totalled
£6757. On the other side, investments, de-
posits and cash alone totted up £20,773,
stock accounted for £15,904, book debts, etc.,'
£10,936, and premises £2304. Over 95 p.c.
of the assets are thus more or less liquid,
and because of this and the fact that there
were net assets with a book value of almost
295. 4d. to represent each £1 share, the co.
was in a particularly cosy corner. No doubt
the management has kept a cautious eye on
its stock valuations, for only 11 years ago
it experienced an unpleasantness as a result
of an unexpected slump in prices.
The 4S-years-old Australian Mutual Fire
Insurance Society, Ltd., is being sold, lock,
stock and barrel, to an English co. The
A.M.F.’s paid capital is in 160,000 £1 shares
paid to 155., and at the last balance there
were net assets worth slightly over 28s. per
share. Qwing to the handsome returns
which the co. has given the market price of
the shares was round about 355.; but when
the foreign co. came with' an offer of 50s.
per share the temptation to hand over scrip
was too much for shareholders. Seeing that
£57,500 of the paid capital renresented
bonus additions during the past 12 years,
the old hands have done handsomely out of
the deal. The A.M.F. has been a conser-
vative old concern working under an
antiquated deed of settlement which was
liable to get it into trouble sooner or later,
in so far as it provided for distributions to
shareholders on the basis of income instead
of on profits. This fettered it, to some
extent; nevertheless it had the makings of a
very great Australian institution, and its
sale to absentees is greatly to be deplored ;
it is merely another way of putting this
country further under mortgage to foreign
creditors. Indeed, the time has arrived when
the Federal Parliament ought to consider
what steps can be taken to protect the Aus-
tralian with insurance policies to place
against giving them in ignorance to foreign
offices which have secured Australian busi-
nesses and continue them without changing
their titles. The practice is to retain the
registration of the local office and carry it
on more or less separate from the English
concern ; and in a good many cases this is
too much like getting Australian business by
false pretences. No such insurance co.
should be registered in Australia unless a
majority of the shares are bona fide held
in Australia ; and all other cos. should be
compelled to add to their trade names their
country of registration.
* * * *
The rumor that, even if the Federal Gov-
ernment turns it down, the N.S.W. Labor
Treasurer may produce a scheme to tax profits
in excess of a specified rate of dividend has
resulted in many recent reconstructions.
Sargent’s and the Sydney Ice-Skating Rink
and Cold Storage Co. are the latest to in-
crease capital, as the latter co. puts it, “to
a sum commensurate, with the present value
of assets held and used in the business.”
Sargent’s, which has paid an uninterrupted
10 p.c. over many years and could have
given shareholders 15 p.c. p.a. from.the last
half’s disclosed' profits, proposes to capitalise
£25,000 of undivided profit on June 30 next.
Shareholders are to get two new £1 shares
paid to 10s. for every five previously held,
and the directors intend to call up 2s. 6d.
per share when issued, and get in the bal-
ance as required. The Ice-Skating and Cold
Storage Co. last year paid 15 p.c. Its aver-
age for the past four years was 12$ p.c.
p.a. on a capital increased to £75.000 by
capitalising £lO,OOO of reserves. Now the
co. is being reconstructed with a paid capi-
tal as large again, holders thus receiving two
shares in the new co. for every one in the
old. It is time the Treasury either con-
firmed or denied the rumor that some sort
of high-dividend tax is to be levied. The
present feeling of uncertainty is leading
many managements to write up assets to
present abnormal values, and in other ways
increase capital beyond a prudent limit.
Jugglingof that kind is likely to result in
people being badly knocked if" things don’t
go right in future. It is almost inconceiv-
able that any Government would impose such
a tax as that which is talked about, at any
rate without giving cos. power to capitalise
their undivided profits, as was done in the
case of the N. S. Wales gas cos. But that
is not the point. Some Labor bodies have
talked about doing it; and this talk is pro-
ducing the results mentioned above.
* * * *
Carroll, Musgrove Theatres, Ltd. —This
is a*£2oo.ooo co. which is setting out to pro-
vide Sydney with a modern movie theatre,
with an audience-capacity of between 3000
and 4000, opposite the Hotel Australia. The
prospectus affirms that the day of the small
picture theatre has passed, and that large-
capacity theatres are “essential to maintain
the prosperity of the moving-picture in-
dustry.” The promotors; Carroll and Mus-
grove, old hands in the theatrical business,
have acquired portion of the site and secured
options over the remainder, and Robinson
and Marks have designed the theatre. The
promoters undertake to hand over the
properties at cost, and for their trouble ask
no consideration other than the right to sub-
scribe, at par, for £20.000 worth of deferred
ordinaries. The public is invited to take
up £140,000 £1 participating prefs., which


Dalgety 8 Company
—Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END" ratq is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
«.***>..• V.' 1/e {S&sEKS
New Zealand.. 4Jd. -
.. 2,4 MS ijMJSS
® S.i WtoM l«to2/l{JJ
Weeh-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
.1. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
—: 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ZZI
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [1
Water is nature’s thirst quencher for both man
and beast, and unless your supply is pure when you
receive -it, much ill-health may result. Dwellers
in the country suffer the greatest disadvantage, as
they depend mainly on tank and river water, which
very often contains impurities and vegetable matter.
One pound of Aluminoferric will clarify 2000 gal-
lons of water. It will not affect the taste, but will
give you a supply of beautifully clear and pure
water. For further particulars write to William
Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. 13
* * * *
For grind inf; all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These bulls may be obtained in various sizes front
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Extract from letter
received from Borough Echuea Water Trust dated
2nd April, 1919: “Dear Sir, —In answer to yours of
the 27th ult., I beg to inform you that the wood
pipes supplied to this Trust from your firm in the
years 1913-15 have given every satisfaction up to the
present. (Sgd.) Edwin R. Riley, Secretary.” Send for
our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lam-
Cove, N.S.W. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* • • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co..
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
SANDYCROFT LTD.
Air Compressors—Steam, Oil and Electrically
Operated.
Particulars from
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD..
National Mutual Buildings,
Corner Collins Street and Queen Street,
Melbourne.
61 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne —Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES. METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
are to get 10 p.c. before the deferreds see a
div.; but when the latter have also had the
same rate, three-fifths of any surplus,
whether distributable or accumulated in the
business, will become the property of the
prefs.. and the remaining two-fifths will be
available for the deferreds. The promoters'
reward thus depends entirely on the success
they make of the venture, and the only cut into
subscribed capital will be the usual under-
writing commission and other preliminary
exes. The cost of properties is set down at
£150,500 (including £7500 compensation to
lessees), the theatre is estimated to cost
£lOO,OOO, and about £5OOO will be required to
modernise the old Victoria Arcade. The
paid capital of £160,000 will thus not be
sufficient to finance the enterprise, so a
£lOO,OOO blister will be put on the proper-
ties. Detailed estimates set out the profits
at £34,000 per annum after providing 10 p.c.
of the net surplus for contingencies. If
this can be realised there would be a 174 p.c.
p.a. return to the prefs. and 46 p.c. to the
deferreds. Whether prospects are as bright
as that the investor can decide for himself.
Much depends on the quality of the screen-
ings ; the films exhibited are to be merely
leased —“purchasing and importing of films
is speculative,” the promoters say. Since
American producers have not tied themselves
to any local .showmen, and are directly re-
presented by agents, the promoters are
“assured there will not be the slightest diffi-
culty” in keeping the show going with the
best attractions.
* * * #
SiroiiTLAND Islands Plantations, Ltd. —
On Jan. 31 last this co., which is in the
Burns-Philp stable, had been 10 years
grubbing and plunting in the British Solo-
mons. But of its 10,203 acres only 1503 had
been cleared, the planted area being 1360
acres, containing 74,106 cocoanuts and 2200
rubber-trees. That is not a brilliant record,
and the work so far done does not fulfil
the improvement conditions necessary to
make the freehold titles absolute. To secure
that hold on its properties the co. is obliged
to bring at least one-tenth of its area under
cultivation ; so there still remain 426 acres
to be cleared and, including this virgin area,
560 acres to be planted. The management’s
big trouble has been shortage of labor, for
the British Solomons hdministration has
not permitted recruiting in other islands, and
the co. has had to depend on what labor
offered nearer home. Even adjacent Bou-
gainville has been denied it as a labor-hunt-
ing field since Germany was ousted. As a
result, at the beginning of 1919 the manage-
ment could muster a labor team only 79
strong, but by means of very energetic scout-
ing 208 indentured colored brethren were
at work at Jan. 31. During the year 1484
tons copra were produced, compared with
J 274 tons for 1919; but this was at least
50 tons below the estimate, which illustrates
once more how even the best of managers
are liable to be false prophets when antici-
pating production from an adolescent plan-
tation. There are only 500 shares in the
co., but they are of £lOO each and are paid
to £7O, £7 10s. per share having been called
up during the year. An amount in excess
of the paid capital has gone in acquiring
and developing the two estates, and though
from the beginning £8345 has flowed in
from the sale of produce, etc.—-no Profit
and Loss account has been opened up yet-=-
to meet administration exes, and provide
ships, plant and stores and finance stocks,
the co. had at Jan. 31 incurred £3Bll of
liabilities.
* * * #
The Natalite Motor Spirit Co. of
Australia, Ltd., proposes to acquire
the Australian rights of a S’African process
which, according to testimonies submitted, is
capable of providing a motor-spirit cheaper,
more effective, cleaner and less inflammable
than petrol, and also give w r ax, chloroform
and other by-products. No adjustments of
petrol-driven engines are necessary. The
original co. appears to have done well, and
has already disposed of its rights for Britain,
Canada, India, South America and other
places, while options have been placed for
the U.S. and other countries. Though
there is little doubt as to the merits of the
new fuel, there are features of the proposed
Australian co. which call for comment. An
abridged prospectus which has been widely
published .shows the authorised capital, as a
quarter-million in £1 shares, and that 150,000
of these shares were being offered for sub-
scription. But no hint of any sort is given
therein as to the vendors’ and promoters’
cuts, and even in the full prospectus all in-
formation on such matters is not included
with the information concerning the raising
of capital, but is shoved into a line at
the close of the document. It appears that
of the £150,000 to be subscribed £5OOO in
cash is to go to T. E. Rofe, “to cover costs
of obtaining the option and the amount there-
for and the costs of an expedition to Papua,”
and that, as a further consideration, Rofe
or his nominees are to be allotted 100,000
fully-paid shares. What T. E. Rofe or his
nominees have done to justify this is not
apparent. The public is invited to put up
£150,000 of cash, of which £145,000, less
preliminary expenses, is to feed a share regis-
ter of £250,000. In addition to the pro-
moters’ cuts, for the first year the co. has to
pay Id. per gal. royalty on a minimum of
one million gals., and thereafter the same
rate of royalty on a two-millions minimum
output. The prospectus estimates a 36 p.c.
return on the quarter-million of capital.
Other features of the flotation are the lack
of information as to the location of the works
and w'ho is to manage them. Though in-
numerable local sugar- and starch-yielding
vegetables are set down as being suitable for
the production of natalite, evidently it is
proposed to take up 100 sq. miles of remote
Papua, from which it is estimated that 5$
million gals, alcohol can be squeezed each
year.
* * * *
The future of Hampton Plains hangs in
the balance. The present boom originated
in the supposition that there were scores of
good and promising shows on the field; now
the fact is gradually dawning on a well-
stung public that only five mines are actu-
ally on payable gold, and not one of these
has been sufficiently developed to enable an
honest mining man to speak with certainty
about its future. Many of the dozens of
leases floated will never prove successes, and
others should never hav,e been floated at all.
In the Celebration values fell from ozs. to
dwts. in the first 300 ft. of sinking, and now
the shaft has been deepened to 200 ft. the
market is wondering what the value of the
ore is likely to be there. On this point it
is hard to get tw r o experts to agree. A
little east of the Celebration and on a
parallel line of country the Pernatty Cen-
tral Co. has done some genuine prospecting
down to 50ft., but it has found nothing yet
to justify the assumption that the property
has the makings of a permanent gold-
producer. The same remark applies to the
rich but patchy Mutooroo, a mile south of
the Celebration, and also in a lesser degree
to the Golden Hope, two miles beyond. But
for the White Hope the Hampton Plains
boom would have succumbed weeks ago.
Adelaide jobbers have been so nervy since
the Mutooroo smash that no new float has
been put through for a fortnight. The
Mutooroo smash taught the punter once more
not to trust to rich assays continuing, or to
big sharebroking firms to hold up a market.
The knockout in Celebration was not a sur-
prise. A murky atmosphere has enveloped the
show ever since mining got down to the
sulphide zone. Adelaide lias been itching
to assault Celebration, but scrip was not
free. 11. J. Daly’s certificate as to the
White Hope also fell flat, and many who
hopped into that show at high prices are
now bounding out. The fount in London has
dried up, so it only needed a bit of a fault
to show in the Hansel Mundy to frighten
the folk who were talking big options over
that well-capitalised duck. Golden Hope is
much less buoyant than y r as the case when
a certain illustrious option was talked of.
What may be a finalising of things is the
advent on the field of some of the old
experts who flitted from KalgoOrlie when
its boom was on the turn, and now return
to cast a coldly critical eye over Hampton
Plains inflations.
* * * *
The demand for White Hope scrip in
London has not been so brisk as some
people expected. The Smoke is not used to
dealing in mining shares of a 10s. denomina-
tion, and it does not care for a no-liability
registration. London wants a new limited-
liability co., having shares of £l, and with
headquarters under its control.
* * * *
Associated Northern’s revenue for its
latest financial year totalled £155,000, of
which £28,351 represented Ivalgoorlie royal-
ties, £24,481 bullion won at Ora Banda,
£2lBB gold premium, and £llll dividends
on investments. A Is. div. (£17,500) was
paid. Assets, apart from mines and plant,
included £32,868 of investments, £6OOO of
loans. £9445 in cash, £3302 of stores and
£4905 of sundry debtors. Liabilities were
roughly £4OOO. Several new properties were
inspected during the year, but all were
turned down. There is still a little payable
ore left in the Iron Duke, Ivalgoorlie, but
the Board reckons it pays the co. better to
allow tributors to operate than do the work
itself. Owing to poorer values, increased
costs and inefficient labor, the Victorious
leases, at Ora Banda, are in a bad way; and
political troubles in Mexico are still respon-
sible for the co.’s inability to make any
progress with its show there.
• * * *
New Commodore, Meekatharra (W.A.),
is to be wound up. This is because the
old Commodore claim duffered, because the
Macquarie, next door, did not do justice to
F. B. Trade’s ambitions, and because ven-
turing at Hampton Plains only added to the
list of mining blanks. Before throwing in
the towel someone had a look at a copper
property on the Nullagine-Leonora stock-
route, but this proposition was passed. So
now comes the machinery-man to sell
the plant. As the co. has a fair equipment
and prices are high, a tidy sum will be
added to the £9OO cash balance in hand.
* * * *
Though B.H. Block 10 broke no ore dur-
ing the half-vear to March 31, it shows a
profit only £950 short of the £12,500 re-
quired for the 2s. 6d. div. Stocks of con-
centrates on hand at the previous balance
were realised during the period for £28,042
more than they had been taken credit for
in the books. So, with interest, Block 10
earned nearly £30,000 though the mine was
shut down. But there will be no such wind-
fall during the current term, for all stocks
have been unloaded. Besides the mine and
plant and interests in Block 10 Misima
(Papua) the co. had £111,675 of more or
less liquid assets. Including the £lO,OOO in
a zinc concentrates suspense account, and
£12,000 reserved for taxes and royalties,
liabilities totalled £28,486, giving a liquid
surplus of £S3.IS9, or 16s. 7d. per share.
* * * *
It. W. Stringer’s oifice seems to have hit
luck at Tingha (N.S.W.) with Horton’s
Star Gully profit-earning, and with the Aus-
tral-Siamese Co. getting good bore results
on Sutherland’s blocks. Some of the bores
put Badak in the shade, as they top the 401 b.
oxide mark. Even so, the average of 14
million yards is only 21b. and of another
million yards l£lb. These results are got
within an area of 140 acres. Austral*
Siamese netted some cash out of its Ronpi-
bon flutter, so it has the money to pay for
its option as well as the balance of the pur-
chase, pending a new float, if it wants to
still pose ns a promoting concern. Star
Gully netted £7OO out of its seven tons oxide,
and counts on rain putting it on the div.
list.
* * * *
Work is proceeding in 16 shafts at Ben-
digo Amalgamated, but only nine are pro-
ducers. Development pure and simple is
the programme at the Hercules, Sheepsliead,
Nelson and Derby. The Central Blue run
of stone is the new hope at the Hercules,
but outside that mine no shoot of any im-
portance has shown up. As a diamond drill
went through quartz at the Alliance mine,
Moline intends seeing what is there. Ben-
digouians, however, are not keen on drill
work, oblivious of the fact that the machine
sorts out the barren zones even if it does
nothing else. Because of that it will be
well worth while to get the drill going on to
the Paddy’s Gully run of stone from the Sea
shaft. Monthly battery returns show the
need for prodding anywhere a chance exists.
Carlise is down to a 10s. average. That, of
course, does not pay. so its output is to be
restricted. Hercules stone is poor, and the
Ironbark tributors have to be content with
wages. So Constellation and Unity are left-
to feed the pack. Constellation’s record is
the best Bendigo has had since Central
Blue cut out. The last three weeks’ battery
run was an average of £l7 9s. from 1278
tons, making the total return from the South
Moon reef 30,7230 z. from 21.520 tons. Ten
weeks’ work yielded 12,1210 z. from 3335
tons, which is about the best return in the
Commonwealth for the year. Now the rich
shoot is nearly all out, Moline tips getting
back to 80s. or 100 s. stuff. If the boring
at McDuff’s shaft, to the north, leads the
way to an extension of the shoot, Moline will
feel more confident about the future. Unity
helps him a little with its 28s. ore, but
he badly needs the assurance of payable
quartz over the 1255 ft. level.
* * * *
“Awaruite”: The Explosives branch of
the Speck’s Mines Department has been agi-
tated lately over exudation of the 50 p.c.
gelignite made of a sodium base, and much
good material is being destroyed to ease the
minds of the officials. A slight discoloration
on the greased-paper wrapper is viewed with
suspicion, and any discernible moisture
means condemnation. The Nobel explosive,
manufactured at Deer Park (Vic.), has had
particular attention. Explosives made by
the Cape Co., using colored labor, appear to
exude much more slowly ; but the Department
is slow to recognise the extra thickness of
the paper used as compared with the Aus-
tralian manufacture. The whole question
revolves round the point as to when the ex-
plosive has degenerated sufficiently to be
dangerous for use. The Mines Department
says “when the slightest discoloration ap-
pears”; Nobel’s chemists say “not until actual
crystals appear on the outside of the wrap-
per.” . The explosives inspector condemns a
certain quantity, makes an entry in the record
book and, being a busy man, passes on. The
miner promptly uses up the condemned plugs,
mostly from curiosity, and can find nothing
ii-regular in their manner of acting. The
fact that last year did not produce one bad
accident due to defective explosive shows the
Department to be taking unnecessary pre-
cautions at the expense of a good local
manufacture.
* * * #
Serpentine Paint Co., Launceston, con-
tinues to yield a satisfactory product from
oxide obtained from the Tamar Valley, near
Beaconsfield. For over 30 years this de-
posit has had attention. In 1888 it was
opened up by the Gold and Paint Co., and
in 1890 by the Native Paint Pty. The
present co. extended the open-cut drive, ex-
posing oxide colors of yellow, green, red and
brown, and various mixtures. The deposit
averages 75 p.c. ferric oxide, free from grit
and active deleterious elements.
Sluicing operations are being resumed by
the Tas. East Coast tin mines, and a fair
water supply is reported by all. Briseis
Central is vigorously boring the area it
proposes to tackle, making it appear as
though the management is now looking for
the mine its elaborate water system is to
work.
The ore left by old man Vincent, of the
British-Zeelian (Tas.), in the No. 6 Argent
Flat has not proved so rich as the Zeehan
syndicate expected, so a small milling plant
it to be erected to treat the second-class ore
available.
The find of cobalt 19 miles south of
Selwyn (N.Q.) was followed by the sinking
of two shafts (now 32ft. and 48ft. down)
about 500 ft. apart. These have disclosed
5 p.c. cobalt, and, though the lode in the
deeper shaft shows signs of pinching, pros-
pects are so promising that a syndicate has
taken over the job of thoroughly testing the
ground, under the guidance, it is said, of
Mt. Elliott’s g.-m. Corbould.
* * * *


l During
Election.
speecK
2 Orx
+k <z L or
Victory.
3 The Quiet,
immczd i2sJe \y
*Jter
. Period
A The incubation
Period.
5. N ow
HOW A PIERCE LION BECAME A USEFUL ASS.


LAGER
ABBOTS
3P
'm
-as
--■:
35“ -
Hade from
Malt £, Hops
ONLY
A PERFECT
BEVERAGE
FOR A
SUMMER'S DAY
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
f
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONOHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mean* Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.
We would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictlv honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Guarantee Proves Its Bonafldea.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
t
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Rumored that Duffy, Chief Clerk of the
Senate, will retire this year and that Wool-
lard, assistant Wig in the Reps, will follow
his example. When the first vacancy arrives,
it will probably mean promotion for Clapin,
who, as Sergeant-at-Arms, surrounds the
Speaker with a lot of superfluous ceremony.
Hubert, Clerk of
Records, may also
go up one, but
Hubert is burdened
with brains, and
brainy men are not
sought after for
posts on Parlia-
mentary staffs.
Walter Gale, Chief
Clerk of the Reps.,
will doubtless be
asked to succeed
Duffy, but Gale is
comfortable enough
in his present job,
and may be disin-
clined to change it.
A man at Gale’s
time of life has
little inclination
for change.
Lieut.-General
CHAUVEL, the
brilliant cavalry
leader of the
Palestine cam-
paign, lately
appointed Inspec-
tor-General of the
G.M.F.
Speaker Mackey, Treasurer McPherson.
Gaud Mayor Aikman and Mayor Hitchcock
(Geelong) are said to be Victorians marked
for “honors” during the Prince’s visit. It
is taken for granted that Lawson will not
accept anything.
Trinity College, Melbourne, is in danger
of becoming quite Austx-alian. When the
imported Dr. Leeper, who still wears Irish
politics next his heart, retired, his place as
Warden was taken by Behan, a Victorian
who had received some Oxford polish as a
Rhodes scholar. Now as vice-warden the
college has R. L. (“Joey”) Blackwood, a
Tasmanian born and bi’ed, who took his de-
gree at the Tas. Uni. and never studied out-
side Australia. “Joey” has been senior classi-
cal master at Melbourne Grammar for years
and has written books about his pet classics
and the English language. •
Present N.S.W. Assembly looks the part
of an after-the-war Parliament. Agricul-
tural Minister Dunn has a stiff knee acquired
in a French trench. Barrister H. V.
Jaques, Eastern Suburbs Nationalist, left a
leg behind in Picardy. W. O’Hearn,
Maitland Laborite, is minus a foot and an
arm, lost in a railway accident. Journalist
Bill Ely, Labor member for Parramatta,
signed on with his left hand, having never
had a right one. Walter Bennett, one of the
Progressive group, is attending to business
on crutches, the result of an ai'gument with
a tram. And, strange as it seems in a Ma
State politician, his leader, W. E. Wearne,
was born without a sense of smell.
“W”: Ivath. Prichai'd, the Vic. novelist,
hasn’t “embraced the political creed of her
V.C. husband, Captain Throssell.” It is the
other way about; the Captain has embraced
both Ivath. and her creed, which is socialism
of the Sydney Webb
type. Before he
went to the war
Throssell was a
member of the
Farmers and Set-
tlers’ Association,
the power behind
the W.A. Country
party. When Mrs.
T. converted him
there was some
talk of his stand-
ing as a Labor can-
didate for the Sen-
ate, but the happy
warrior wisely de-
clined the Grecian
gift. He fights
better than he
speaks.
W. G. SPRIGG,
late director of
Melbourne Tram-
way and Omnibus
Co., and the best-
known whiskers in
Melbourne.
Within 18 months two former Premiers of
an Australian State have died of cancer, and
a third has undergone two operations for
the same disease. In nine years the State
in question borrowed over 20 millions —and
not a cent of it was spent in cancer research.
George Steward found his job in life 15
months ago when Bowser, the then Chief
Sec., ptit him at the head of the Vic. police,
lie had made good, having reorganised the
force, squelched sectarianism, brought about
a feeling of contentment, raised pay and
broken up gangs of criminals. Titles were
conferred on him for buzzing officially
around the Gov.-Gen., and for running the
Australian secret service during the war, but
it was as Principal Hop that he acquired
merit. From the time he brought bread
and meat down to the wharves to hungry
men in blue on strike duty he had a warm
corner in the hearts of the force. He has
left no children, and his widow is said to
have a little pile of her own.
Prime Minister Hughes confided to Par-
liament, when increased salaries were being
discussed, that if he had kept out of politics
and given his energy to “law or journalism
or the making of money” he would be a
wealthy man, and that “if he walked out of
the House to-day and elected to take a posi-
tion” he could make three times his present
salary. It is a blessed thing to have a good
opinion of oneself. Still, Hughes had about
30 years of life before he got into politics;
and at 30 politics found him still mending
umbrellas. No doubt if he walked out of
politics he could make three times his earn-
ings in politics. But it was politics that
showed him how to do it, and it is ungrate-
ful to speak unkindly of the mistress who
has treated him so well.
Into the retiring S.A. Police Commis-
sioner’s shoes steps Raymond, head of the
Fighting Leanes. There were 11 Leanes of
military age, sons and grandsons of an old
lady who lives at Prospect (S.A.), when
Germany went mad, and three of them left
their bones in Europe. A draper at Boulder
(W.A.) in 1914, Raymond Lean’e became
a captain in the 11th Battalion, and served
with distinction all through Gallipoli. In
Egypt he was made colonel of the 48th, and
commanded that battalion on the Somme,
where it was nearly wiped out, and at Bulle-
court, where a brother and a nephew fell.
Padre Devine in his “Story of a Battalion”
relates that after the battle the Colonel sought
for his brother’s body among the dead and
buried it with his own hands. The padre,
who had special opportunities for judging,
describes Leane as an utterly fearless
leader and as “a man who lived among men
and was despised not.” 11l luck dogged his
footsteps in Gallipoli and Flanders, but he
won glory as a brigadier in the 1918 cam-
paign. He has collected as many scars as
decorations; and among the latter are the
D. 5.0., the M.C. and the Croix de Guerre.
Judge Gordon, of S. Australia, has been
unconventional enough to write to the
papers in the hope of saving his baby
brother, Judge Poole, from a storm that has
broken around his head because he sentenced
a gaol-escapee to six months in irons. No-
body believes that Gordon would pass such
a sentence; but “it is much milder than
several sentences passed by eminent S.A.
Judges for the same offence,” he pleads. The
list he gives in support, however, shows sig-
nificantly that nothing of the kind had pre-
viously been given since 1901. Also, still
significantly, every case later than 1885
was an award of Judge Boucaut. And
Boucaut, though giving a prisoner every
sporting chance during the trial, was notori-
ously ferocious when it came to passing sen-
tence. His latest (1901) was lour years in
irons.
Like his former Labor colleague, Jim
Long, A. T. Ozanne has gone into the pub
line, but has selected a more classic neigh-
borhood than a sheep-saleyard vicinity. He
is running the Bleak House, Albert Park,
as manager for the licensee.
Australia’s oldest journalist is John Gale,
of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.). He is 90, and
this year preached his 72nd Easter Sunday
sermon in Queanbeyan Methodist Church.
Locally they regard him as “the Father of
Canberra,” and he will no doubt have a
reserved seat when H.R.H. lays the threat-
ened memorial-stone.
Preston, the new financial editor of Sydney
D.T., is an old Age man. Looking back over
his many wanderings with Ministers he reck-
ons the best trip he ever had was with Bent,
15 years ago, when Tommy, as Premier and
Railway Minister, inspected the route of a
proposed line from Tallangatta to Corryong.
It was in this pilgrimage that the party
found a notice displayed at Granya: “The
Minstrel Party will arrive to-night.”
»Died at the Outer Harbor, Adelaide, Cap-
tain Robert William Osborne, who first
arrived at Port Adelaide in ’62 in charge of
the Jane Bell, and for some time hovered
between there and Mauritius. Later he went
to England to superintend the building of
the steamers Emu and Euro, which after-
wards traded on the S.A. coast for many
years. The old man claimed to have been
the first to pilot a steamer up the “river” at
Port Pirie. He signed off at 86.
Ex-Labor Minister Lennon, Bananaland’s
Lieut.-Governor, is playing the part accord-
ing to the old script. He makes only loyalty
speeches, entertains at Government House,
allows the band to strike up “God Save”
when he appears, occupies the vice-regal box,
employs a plumed aide-de-camp, and is even
escorted by mounted police along the King’s
highway. Lennon was once a baker’s boy,
and knows how many loaves make the
dozen. The “better class” already acclaims
him as one of its own, while Bill Bowyang
sneers at the flummery of it all. Which
shows that Lennon is a success.
Since the death of picturesque old Dr.
Bevan, Parkin College, headquarters of the
powerful Congregational body in Adelaide,
has been without a principal. The new one,
just arrived from England, brings things
up to date with a jerk. E. S. Kiek is a good
Britisher in spite of his name, being a son
of a leading Paternoster Row publisher of
theological books. He has the M.A. of
Oxford and B.D. of London, was with the
Y.M.C.A. in France, and at 36 has given
up cricket and rowing for tennis and golf.
His first remark to an Adelaide interviewer
on arrival was that theological training
hitherto has been “on almost mediaeval lines,”
and needs instead to take an intelligent in-
terest in modern social problems.
Back in Australia, Brig.-General George
Johnston, whose appointment as Adminis-
trator of German New Guinea was about
the most unfortunate the Hughes Govern-
ment ever made. Apparently it was done
(1) on his personal popularity; (2) on his
record with the sth Div. Artillery: (3) on
the fact that he had made a success of a
furniture business in Melbourne. What the
Government didn’t know, apparently, was
how much his brigade-major was responsible
for his success abroad, and that was his
biggest test as an administrator. Griffiths,
late of Horseferry-road, succeeds him; and,
capable administrator and all as he showed
himself to be on the other side, he has a
tough few months ahead of him in Rabaul
and thereabouts.
When the Vic. Parliament meets Lawson
is to be asked to supply information regard-
ing any war service, direct or indirect, ren-
dered to the Allies by H. W. Clapp, the new
Vic. Railway Chief. Born in Vic., he was
38 when the war broke out.
Some hardy pensioners: E. J. Thomas,
who was frozen out of the job of secretary
to the Vic. Premier in J. B. Patterson’s
time, 27 years ago, is still going strong on
his £6OO a year. Ex-Justice Hartley
'Williams, whose retiring allowance is £l5OO
a year, has out-
lived John Mad-
den, who was
put over his
head as Chief.
Tom O’Calla-
ghan, ex-police
chief, has seen
the grave close
over his two
successors, and
has hopes of
continuing to
collect his £6OO
a year when the
decalogue is
brought out of
the catacombs
and the profit-
eers are neg-
lected by car-
toonists because
they don’t mat-
ter.
JUDGE
HOSKING ,
Maoriland
Dennis Connelly’s drawing of Senator
Pratten last week might have done for a
birthday card. He was 55 on May 7.
The coach in which the Princelet bridged
the rail-gap over the Otira Gorge (M.L.)
was driven by A. Hall, who took the Duke
of Edinburgh over the route in IS6B. The
old ’un proudly flicked his team with the
silver-mounted whip presented by the Duke.
Considering the reputation of the donor, it
must have been about the most interesting
curio the Heir-Apparent saw in M.L.
The late George Steward got into the
Federal Taxation Department, and was the
first Deputy-Commissioner for Victoria. He
had all the hard work of explaining the new
Federal Land Tax Act and regulations to
irate landowners, and giving rulings on
knotty points. His office in the Rialto was
next to that of the Commissioner, and
shrewd heads dissatisfied with Steward’s
decisions used to quietly pop in next door —
a thing they couldn’t do in the other States
—and often got a totally different interpre-
tation from a head unaware that his deputy
had already given a ruling. Steward stood
a few months of this sort of thing, and then
chucked the job and its £750 a year, and
went back to £6OO and a quiet office at
Federal Government House.
After 16 years’ apprenticeship as a Vic.
M.L.C. “Brother” Alf ’lcks has been made
an Hon. Minister in the Lawson team. He
is not over-rich, and it was something of
a sacrifice for him to throw up his paid
membership of the Railway Committee; for
Vic. honorary Cabineteers, like Uppah House
men, don’t get paid even when they work
as hard as Mackinnon and McWhae. The
s’norous tones ’lcks cultivated when he
piloted conventicle services in bvgone days
still linger. Like Barnes he is a Cousin
Jack, but Barnes is nearer to earth and
readier to take erring fellow-mortals as he
finds them. The Cold Tea Party in the
Cabinet has been reinforced by ’lcks. Other-
wise he leans to the Radical side, and would,
if he had his way, pay members of the
Drowsy Chamber.
Still alive in the Gloucester district
(N.S.W.) an old half-caste whose native
name was Molikat, but who is. now Jack
Cook. Cook knew “Thunderbolt” Ward, and
can still pitch tales about his prowess on
horseback. Molikat, now getting on for 80,
is reputed to be the only living N. S. Wales
native who has been through the ceremony of
the boombit,; it was then he took the native
name of Molikat. A half-caste woman named
Nellie Ward was Thunderbolt’s love-treasure
and faithful friend in his bushranging days,
and a daughter of hers was years afterwards
in service at Gloucester when the A. A. Co.
reigned supreme.
No artist ever threw away a greater
chance than William Westall, who was with
Flinders when he explored the Australian
coast from King George’s Sound to Sydney,
from Sydney to the Gulf of Carpentaria, on
to Timor and then back to Sydney. In
1803 he sailed in the Porpoise and lost some
of his sketches in the wreck. Then he got
away to China and on to India. In a letter
written from Canton he speaks with regret
of having been delayed so long on the “bar-
ren coast” of Australia, and says he would
not have “engaged in so hazardous a voyage”
if he had known how little there would be
to employ his pencil. No wonder that the
sketches by Westall which have been pre-
served are wooden and uninteresting; and
apparently nothing very wonderful was lost
when the Porpoise came to grief.
TO MY SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The open road lies at your feet,
So chocfee the way you think is best;
The world is calling from the East,
The bush lies sleeping in the West.
I will not urge you which to take,
For either one may treat you well;
1 know you’ll have the strength to pass
The pitfalls where your father fell.
I think I sighed when news came through
You’d won an education free,
For I had often felt that you
Would always be a mate for me.
And bitter thoughts came. when you left
In slop-made rags, stiff-creased and new;
My heart hung like a blacksmith's sledge
When I saw how they fitted you.
It was, no doubt, a selfish whim,
And now you’ve gone I know I’m glad,
For you will have the chance to rise,
A thing your father never had.
Don’t doff your hat or bend your knee
To those pitchforked to places high;
They’d use your brains to serve their ends,
Then drop you down and let you die.
Your veins are filled with rovers’ blood,
A rover’s heart beats in your breast,
You have your father's cloven chin—
You also have his sunken chest.
Some day, my boy, your back may bow
Beneath the load of—call it care,
And you may long for peace and calm;
Go to the bush, you’ll find it there.
Should trouble come in failure’s wake,
And cruel taunts cut to the bone,
Don’t seek for solace in the town,
Go to the bush, you are its own.
Should black misfortune dog your steps
That almost broke your father’s heart,
Go further out, go further out,
And you will make another start.
When distant fields are green no more,
And rainbow gold has turned to dross,
When day-dream visions fade away,
The bush will help you bear the loss.
Its friendly arms are open wide,
Its silent men are staunch and true;
Their fathers were your father's friends,
And you will have their friendship, too.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Austral”
Overcoats
OK well in an “Austral” Overcoat!
Be snug and warm in its roomy
comfort! Have the satisfaction
of a stylish coat, well-tailored and
finished, that will give you a remarkable
length of service!
63/-. 75/-. 115/-.
£6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-.
£ 9/9/-
Write for a post-free copy of our
New General Catalogue.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY, SUBURBS
AND COUNTRY.
Cowing Bros. Ltd.
“Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,”
486-490 George Street,
3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
Branch Store at 304 George Street
(near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.
.//Ml
f'i
K
- m
M
se
v 5
3o
B
wV
M
m
rVV
$
is*
MS
SS
s&
/i
c
®
#
K. 5
El
1


Two Winter Shirts
Combining Warmth and Strength,
During the Winter, city men need warmer shirts,
and country inen need shirts that are both warm
and strong. We quote two shirts of warm, durable
texture in two weights. *
CfiYLON SHIRTS, medium weight, fine, warm tex-
ture. White grounds with neat stripes of blue or
blhck. Band Cuffs, to button or link 16/6
CRIMEAN SHIRTS (Winter weight), very strong.
White with blue stripes, and grey with blue or helio
stripes. Band Cuffs as above 15/(j
READY TO WEAR.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
Please state linen-collar size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS.
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
fliBL
y
v y
p
m
Meltoman
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTLES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
ƒ
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE - WORLD
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOI, 3002. Apply Manager.
SOCIETY
IT MAY HAVE BEEN A CANNI-
BAL CLUB.
THE FAIR ONE: “I’ve got you down
for a couple of tickets. We are
getting up a raffle for a poor man
of our neighborhood.”
HER VICTIM: “But what on earth
would I do with the poor man if
I icon him?”
“Digger”: At all four big Sydney func-
tions where the Prince of Wales is to be
given a dance to solidify the dynasty—that
is, the Federal and the two State Govern-
ment House balls and the Queen’s Club affair
-—the same people, broadly speaking, will be
asked to meet him. The Government House
frequenters of the moment (Society is not
static in Sydney and never has been) are
not representative of the State: they don’t
even represent Sydney. They merely com-
prise that section of the successful commercial
and professional worlds with a taste for
the spectacular or jazz life. The dynasty
has them, so to speak, already; and, further-
more, many are old or elderly. The Prince’s
mission is to win his way into the hearts of
the young who will still be alive when he
ascends the throne, and to attract the luke-
warm whose monarchism is not being con-
stantly stimulated by association with vice-
regality. The best results, from his point
of view, would be got from some arrange-
ment whereby representative young people
from every important town and suburb in
the State were asked in batches to the dif-
ferent balls. They might be chosen locally
by ballot, or by any other suitable method,
the only consideration being blameless re-
cords ; good looks in the case of the girls;
and war service overseas in that of the men.
He would thus become a tradition in a thou-
sand scattered places which he is unable to
visit, and that is the object of the trip.
Being a visitor and a gentleman he can’t
protest when the same old stream of mer-
chants. agents, auctioneers and lawyers and
their families —all well-nigh maudlin with
royalism—is directed past him four times in
one fortnight. But he is bound to think
a lot. The reason he is in danger of being
bored stiff to make a holiday for those
people who, according to a Sydney Tei.iv
orapii statement last week, are buying a
thousand frocks for the four balls “at £lOO
each.” is a matter for the A.D.C.’s. They
are under obligations to those who have en-
tertained them, and the Prince’s visit gives
them an opportunity to make repayment.
What is the passion for loyalty compared
with the virtue of gratitude?
“Spike”: We really ought to make up our
minds how we are going to regard the escape
or attempted escape of prisoners from gaols.
In Adelaide Judge Poole sentenced a man
found guilty of it to two years’ hard, with
six months in irons. Fairbairn, visiting
magistrate at Fremantle (W.A.), ordered two
prisoners a flogging apiece. A youth tied a
bucket-handle to a broomstick, hooked
himself up by the barred windows of the lodge
gates at Berrima (N.S.W.), and fell over
the lofty wall. The poor devil broke his leg
and was nabbed. The officials recognised that
this effort was worthy of a Judge and jury,
so they sent the case for trial at Goulburn.
Judge Murray regarded, the crime as such a
natural one that he merely added one day’s
imprisonment to the prisoner’s sentence. The
Berrima authorities, however, were dissatis-
fied, and when their bird got back to them
the visiting magistrate sentenced him to six
months’ separate treatment and a period of
bread and water for stealing Government pro-
perty, to wit, one broom-handle and one
bucket-handle. Another man actually had his
sentence reduced through getting out of his
cage at Maitland. He was tried before Judge
Murray and received a merely nominal pun-
ishment; but his Honor was so impressed by
the severity of the sentence the man was serv-
ing—viz., nine years’ P.S. —that he made
representations to the Executive Council,
which reduced the sentence to six years.
“Belltopper”: Recently the Queensland
Railway Department found that the bottle-
neck at Brisbane Central Station was un-
able any longer to accommodate the traffic,
and for the purpose of extension the Trades
Hall property, over the Roma-street tunnel,
was acquired. Compensation was given,
and the Trades Hall prepared to erect a
new building on a better site in Wickham
Terrace. And thereby hangs a comedy.
Owing to the old building being in process
of demolition, the trustees found that the
services of the caretaker were no longer re-
quired ; but, so that he would not be thrown
out of work in the process of shifting, they
gave him a job as cleaner. Thereat the
Industrial Council, which is the militant
wing of the Labor party, bore down on the
Arbitration Court and demanded an in-
junction to restrain the Board of the Trades
Hall from so acting, on the ground that
the caretaker had been victimised under
the recently-issued award. The appellants
were talked out of Court, whereupon they
resorted to direct action. They told the
Board that unless the caretaker was given
SORRY HE SPOKE NOW .
HER HUSBAND: “You ought to he ashamed
to appear in public wearing a dress so
short.”
HIS BOOR, DEAR WIFE: “On the contrary, I
am ashamed to wear a dress so long.”
back the old job which carried the bigger
screw they would forthwith declare the new
Trades Ilall “black.” The Board told the
Industrial Council to go ahead. The Council
showed that it meant business, and “black”
the new trades hall was declared, and all
bricklayers, carpenters, navvies, plumbers
and carters were warned off the polluted
precincts under penalty of being branded
as “scabs.” The ukase of the Council Was
observed by the workers under its wing, but,
supporters of the Trades Hall Board, rep-
resenting a majority section of the Labor
forces, got to work with pick and shovel to
make way for the laying of the foundation-
stone. This was done in time to allow the
Lieut.-Governor to perform the ceremony on
the eve of Labor Day, the Industrial Coun-
cil comrades calling the Board's loyalists
“scabs,” while the latter retorted by pro-
claiming the Council followers “rats.” But
the Industrial Council had another dart in
its bow. At the Labor Day procession it
called on all the unions affiliated with it,
numbering 21 strong, to stand out; but the
Trades Hall Celebration Committee pro-
ceeded with business as usual, and marched
its 32 unions. The feud still continues, and
the new Trades Hall goes up “black.” the
Board having informed the Council that it
can get plenty of union labor to carry on
all classes of work. The amusing feature of
the proceedings is that the old Trades Hall,
still partly occupied by both factions, re-
mains “white,” and the rival fellow-
workers sing “The Red Flag” and speak in
whispers about the brotherhood of man.
* * * *
“Wanderer”: Are there any capable rest-
aurant cooks left in the Commonwealth?
Have the cook-ladies all become chorus-girls,
picture-actresses, factory-lizzies, sales-ladies
and office-flappers? Is it possible anywhere
in Australia to get a decently-cooked, appe-
tising and moderately-priced restaurant
meal? I have tried to find one in five capi-
tals, and all I got for the money was
indigestion and bad temper. The food is
generally good, but the cooking is rotten.
Australians eat too much meat and too little
fish, but not one restaurant artificer in
twenty knows how to cook fish ; not one in a
hundred knows how to cook vegetables.
Watery soup, a leathery roast swamped in
gravy, half-cooked potatoes and cabbage and
a fraudulent compound of dough and raisins
miscalled plum pudding—these are the staples
of every bad-restaurant dinner in Australia.
When a “society” dame can screw no more
rag-money out of the old man, .she rushes
into the city and opens a blouse-shop. Each
of the six bloated cities is glutted with
blouse-shops, but there is a famine in the
sort of restaurant where a plain man can get
a satisfying feed. No form of feminine
enterprise is more urgently demanded and —
if the woman can really cook —would be a
surer money-spinner. But the blouse-shop is
genteel and the cook-shop is not; and the
woman in reduced circumstances is generally
a snob. A lot of this nation’s troubles
derive from the fact that it pays too much
attention to its back and too little to its
stomach.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Nobody appears to have
said a kindly word for the voluntary
stretcher-bearers who lent a hand to get the
men from France in and out of
the trains and ambulances in
Britain. They were a weedy lot,
some of them old, and all of them
very obviously unfit for service;
yet, after, as a rule, toiling during
the day, they jumped Into their
uniforms and went out to do their
bit with the stretchers. All the
way from the line to Britain I had
objected to the stretcher business,
and wanted to get out and walk
each time the carriers, who in
France were hefty enough, started
to operate; but I had been pushed
firmly back on every occasion.
Being juggled in a stretcher when
you are feeling that an accidental
drop would just about smash your
aching body is not pleasant. But
when, being in an upper berth in
the hospital train, two undersized
grey-haired, seven-stone-something
volunteers came to lift me out, I
raised a loud protest to Heaven. I
could feel the weakness in every
tottering step they took, and I
spent tlie couple of minutes of
stretcher-journey between admiring
the oldsters’ grit in sticking to it.
saying my prayers, and estimating
the hardness of the platform. Yet,
having dumped me into an ambu-
lance at the place where the ladies
with the tea and biscuits and the
gift roses were waiting, the feeble old men
went back to tackle another load ! Forgiving
all the heart-spasms they caused me, I lift
iny hat to those old gentlemen.
* * * *
“Frank J.” : Those line fellows, the Angli-
can Bush Brethren, are always getting lost.
Naturally enough—they are mostly young
High Churchmen freshly come from Oxford
via some city slum-quarter, and their busi-
ness is to go off the beaten tracks. I saw
a tin-seratcher about 40 miles from Herberton
(N.Q.) talking to a stranger on horseback
yesterday. Strangers on horseback being
rare up our way, I asked Bill who the bloke
was. “Oh, him!’' Bill said —“’e was one
of them Bushed Brothers.”
* * • * *
“Gallery” : The Federal Parliament wants
to present an address to Edward Wales,
but a recent proposal to let the President of
the Senate hand over the sacred document
has greatly affronted the Speaker of the
Reps. Normally both Houses prepare sepa-
rate addresses and tender them through their
respective chiefs, but a natural desire to
save the Prince’s time led to the suggestion
THE GUILTY CONSCIENCE.
“So glad to sec you, Bess. I felt sure I
should find you out!”
“Oh, what about?”
of a joint oration from the two Houses in
the Senate Chamber. It seems a trifling
departure from official etiquette, but as the
Speaker persists in feeling huffed about it.
Edward will probably be bored twice.
(Continued on page 18.)
BILLO'S TRIANGLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN..]
Th’ poiet.ses it’s allers best ter cop things at th’
flood,
But w’en I tries ter cop a thing it’s bound ter be
a dud,
F’r I’m a bloomin’ Jonah, an’ me monniker is Mud.
Fair dinkum!
I ’ad th’ shinest bint a bloke’d ever wish ter meet,
An’ used ter kid meself a bit w'en we did George’s
Street,
Until a nark named Leather’ead ’e done me in a treat.
Fair dinkum !
I takes me shiela to a darnce, an gets a trifle shiek,
An’ Leather cops me tabby, an’ ’e cops me with
a brick;
An’ then f’r ’sault an’ langwidge, 'struth! I'm
boobed .in 'arf a tick.
Faiv dinkum !
W’en I comes out they’re settled down, an married,
an’ all that;
I bumps ’em on the corner, an’ again 'e knocks me
flat,
An’, strike me lucky I Leather’ead ’e’s wearin’ my
noo 'at I
Fair dinkum I
So now I jerry to a fac’ wot every bloke should
know
If ’e wants ter keep ’is self-respec', an’ save ’is
bloomin’ dough—
All tabbies brings yer trouble, so it’s lies’ ter let
’em go.
Fair dinkum !
Dinkum, fair dinkum t
A tart’ll drive yer ratty in th’ end:
An’ I’m slingin’ yer th’ chat
That a bloke ’oo’s on ’is pat
Is cobbers with ’is on’y friend,
Fair dinkum!
u.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


m
t
haai
ft
v%
#
•3
. T i i ■rrr?: | , , i'f‘T77T* ',','u '. 1 , , i.O.s i.i, I ,'. .",-7, , ilgS
✓
S*»
Z
\
ii %
m.
,‘t i
ij
m
h
'
nm/////
//*
itf/t//
i!i «
VOICE
PpBPPpW?
'OivT'i • 1 '
W$M
iiiiiiii:iiiiiiii:i->
f
i i. l
iii
mmmmm
Ililllll
I■'• 1 ■ 1 'I ■ 1 'l l i Mh mini! : I "''Ti [ m/- S'
V^r
rJ.- 111 l'll
4T
Ni
'f,
%
0.
k
v:
v
s
v
S
tv
V
V
ffv
V.
k
■■■
VrrT
m
f .,i l w^» rn .A | ! iiiii;if#iA|»i»i iJ>i
n >
1184-9
Biißgmg*iTar»Kii)d
<3 'Together |
Perfection in
b Tone— 4
Production!
THE AEOLIAN VOCALION
is so scientifically constructed that every
note it plays is not only beautiful in tone
quality but also true to the distinctive character
of every instrument and voice it reproduces.
It is free from all foreign noise and stridency.
Musical notes produced by voice or instru-
ment are really a composite of a number of
tones. These are known as "partials.” For
instance, a tone from a violin may contain
12 partials consisting of a “ fundamental ” and
11 overtones, and so forth with other instru-
ments and the human voice.
No matter what the tonal waves are, the
intricate and sensitive mechanism of the
Vocalion is so perfect, it is capable of exqui-
sitely expressing the minutest sounds and
swelling volumes of melody.
Yet the superiority in tone is but one of
the many exclusive Vocalion advantages
which include the ingenius “ Graduola ” tone
controller.
Vocalions are Priced from £9 to £BO
SEND FOR BEAUTIFUL CATALOG
t The Pianola Co.
Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney


Do Not Remain aClerk
Under our expert experienced guidance you will become a skilled,
qualified accountant rapidly and economically. With the knowledge you will
gain and the Degree, almost any executive position is within your reach.
Hun reds of our students have achieved “10 years’ promotion in one”
by qualifying. Why not do the same? The expense is small —the reward
great.
BECOME A QUALIFIED ACCOUNTANT.
Don’t delay. Start now for promotion.
Write or call for our 80-page book. Explains exactly how to qualify
and wha" it means to you.
Enquiry costs you nothing. Get the Free Book To-day.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Building?
Custom Street.
'FIRST IN 1897—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
THE PRACTICE THAT MAKES PERFECT.
“Oh, you know too much!”
“Maybe, but Pd like you to teach me some of it again.”
Victoria’s State Government has an idea
of teaching useful and profitable trades to
its prisoners, most of whom know none,
which is one reason w’hy they are prisoners.
Aeroplaning and practical navigation are im-
possible, but woollen manufacture seems the
right thing in a country which grows mil-
lions of sheep yet imports its pants. So an
advt. appears for a man with
a general knowledge of wool, its conditions from
a shrinkage point of view and its adaptability for
various classes of goods; a knowledge of dyeing,
plain and fancy colors, both with wool and coir
yarn; a practical and experimental knowledge of
carding and spinning and ability to manage looms
(Jacquard and plain) ; ability to give instruction in
finishing tweeds and other goods for market; to be
generally able to control labor and to conduct a
woollen factory in all its branches.
The salary isn’t £lOOO a year, as might be
expected, but £4 12s. 4d. a week ; so appa-
rently it is a decayed rabbiter that is wanted.
Either the Cabinet of lawyers hasn’t the
ghost of an idea of the value of an industrial
expert, or it takes no interest at all in the
effort to reform prisoners by turning them
into capable workers.
*** • #
“Fogis” : Fritz, if not strictly on the level
with regard to his methods, was certainly
very thorough ; he left no means untried of
securing his “possie.” He bred in the hearts
of his native subjects a whole-hearted fear
of the British soldier, and foretold the direst
consequences should they leave the shelter-
ing wing of the Prussian butcher-bird. The
result was that on the capture of German
New Guinea, Johnnie Kanaka expected all
kinds of gruesome things to happen to himself.
One Belobais, of the Catholic Mission at
Alexishafen, decided that the better course
would be to end his dark life at once. So,
selecting a length of rope from the store-
house, he climbed the tallest palm, adjusted
the noose to his satisfaction, and before the
interested eyes of his brethren, hopped the
bags for Heaven. But, unfortunately, one
minor detail of the arrangements had been
omitted —the shortening of the rope to an
effective length—and he crashed. Ilis audi-
ence, as surprised as he, gathered up the
wreckage, and carried it sadly to the “house-
sick.” He sports a wooden leg now.
“Cal”: You can have an affidavit with
this one. Jerry was putting up a night raid
on Bill’s machine-gun post, and the time had
arrived for Bill to mutter a prayer, grab
the business portion of the gun and get.
Noticing that the darkness was extra-black
in one place, and that the extra-black portion
was charging down upon him. Bill dropped
the gun and hurriedly fumbled about for
something to throw or shoot with. A brass
contraption, catalogued by Ordnance as
“pistol, Verey light, fin.,” was the first thing
his hand struck. Raising it, Bill fired point-
blank at the apparition. The report of the
discharge was followed by a terrific smack
and a green flare. A Hun. out for an li’on
Cross, had stopped the flaming wad with
his mouth, and it stayed there to reduce his
features to carbon. The green light emanat-
ing from the human beacon and the beacon’s
fearful language as he tried to tear the
horror from his flesh steadied Jerry’s cob-
bers, who dropped prone. Panic-stricken,
the Hun bolted for home, the fast-dying
ember at his mouth drawing fire from both
sides. Bill still held that post at dawn.
* * * *
“Broke”: Speaking of close calls, what
about this? Early in 1918 Sergeant Hamil-
ton, 9th Battalion, was shot in the stomach
and face with shrap. The stomach wound,
although serious, healed after four months
or so. A small of shrap had blinded
him in his right eye, and. as it was not to
be found near the eye, the docs, had a search
for it. They found it right at the back of
his head, about one-eighth of an inch from
his skull —it had just failed to burst through.
Shot clean and decent through the head and
still alive! General Ryan left his CIII.
classification alone.
* * * *
“Refractionist”: The case quoted by
“Macquarie Street” (B. 29/4/’2O) only adds
evidence in support of the case for legisla-
tion to cope with this evil of unqualified
(and nearly always itinerant) “cye-special-
ists.” If legislation similar to that operat-
ing in Queensland were in force in N. S.
Wales, pretentious quacks would
be debarred from taking advantage
of the “poor, ignorant public.”
Nevertheless, “Macquarie Street”
and his brother oculists, in their
fear that the p.i.p. may patronise
still further the qualified opto-
metrist, block every proposed piece
of legislation that will afford the
p.i.p., particularly in the country,
the benefits of consulting a quali-
fied optometrist, capable of cor-
rectly testing their eyes, and if
necessary either prescribing glasses
or advising the services of an oculist. In this
way the B.M.A. denies to the nation that
very efficiency which “Macquarie Street” is
so anxious about.
* * * *
“Ex-Missionary” writes from a quiet her-
mitage where he spends his declining years :
The report of Judge Murray, Lieutenant-Gov. of
Papua, deals, as usual, and as might be expected,
largely with the discouragement of head-hunting,
cannibalism and other native athletic sports. I
have always thought that too much narrow-minded
fuss is made over such things. Cannibalism isn’t so
very degrading provided the cannibal doesn’t feel
degraded, and as a rule he doesn’t. He didn’t even
know that he was a cannibal till a white theorist,
who probably knew nothing of the subject except
from books, told him so —he was no more aware of
the fact than young Adam knew that he was un-
dressed. Interference removed a handy article of
diet from the bill of fare, and aggravated the burial
question. The eating of white people should be an
offence because white people object, but if colored
people like to eat themselves or each other by
mutual consent —I suppose a universal custom implies
a species of mutual consent—the case is different.
The practice has its drawbacks, but there is no
reason to be rabid about it. It is stated in Judge
Murray’s report that the deceased is often treated
with insult before being eaten. That is bad. Still,
N. S. Wales Speaker Levy was treated with insult by
Fitzpatrick without either of them being eaten.
Head hunting, which is also complained of, is at
least vigorous and cheap outdoor exercise. It
pleases the person who gets the head, and the other
one would die, anyhow, sooner or later.
It should always be borne in mind that the un-
limited multiplication of human beings isn’t neces-
sarily a blessing or a virtue, especially if they are
low-grade human beings who don’t contribute to
the sum of human knowledge or happiness. If any
race of that sort wants to remove itself out of the
way by war, cannibalism or head-hunting there are
multitudes of white people growing up to take their
place. About 120 years ago the white peoples
started on a mad and sudden process of increase
and began multiplying at the rate of about 300 per
cent, per century. Gregory McGirr, M.L.A., whose
unreliability, I suppose, can be depended on, alleges
that he has seen this proud but overcrowded race
head-hunting (looking for sheep- and fish-heads) in
garbage tins in Woolioomooloo, Sydney. Is it worth
while for the heirs of the ages to commit suicide by
overcrowding, especially if the colored races don’t
want to overcrowd?
When our royal visitor was at Fiji the natives
had the pallid semblance of a day off from civilisa-
tion —the faded make-believe of a return to the
vigorous old times. That is to say, they hunted
out the gauds and frills of their fathers qjid pre-
tended to be what they or their fathers once were.
It didn’t amount to anything. But it would have
been different if the Government had proclaimed a
week’s relapse into savagery for all who felt inclined
and who gave notice of their intention, white
people, of course, being barred, and the browns only
allowed to savage among themselves. That would
mean a week (perhaps a month would have been
better) of the old laws and customs, a furbishing
up of the old feuds and the old clubs and spears, a
sort of bank-holiday time when the veneer of civilisa-
tion was washed off and the garment thereof tom
in shreds. And when the Prince arrived on the
last day of the carnival and was welcomed by his
bloodstained but loyal subjects carrying each other’s
heads on poles, the sight would be a liberal educa-
tion in itself. Maybe, after counting the heads and
the consequences, it would be decided to make it
an annual affair.
Dear Bulletin: “Ex-Dig” (B. 22/4/’2O).
talking of the so-called Nile worm (Bil-
huzia), mentions that sufferers from it, while
not assisted by the Repat. to go into the
country, are yet allowed to live in unsewered
suburbs. “Ex-Dig” need have no fears.
There is no risk of infection even though
deep drainage be absent if the water supply
for bathing and drinking is uncontaminated.
So Sydney and Melbourne are safe. But if
sufferers went into the Diggers’ settlements
along the Murrumbidgee (say, Wagga),
there could be no guarantee that the river
would not be infected, and then what of the
towns and settlements lower down? The
“worm” has for its host a Nile water-snail,
very similar to the water-snails that teem
in the ’Bidgee; and that makes precautions
all the more necessary. The parasite is very
minute, and can perforate the skin in about
five seconds. It attacks first kidneys and
bladder, but its later effects are indescrib-
able. I have some photos, but The Bul-
letin would not publish them. —Yours,
Minia.
* * * *
“Hawker” : I went through a fruit-growing
district outside Melbourne last week and
found that half my old customers had sold
out to the Repat., and been replaced by re-
AN UNNECESSARY PRECAUTION.
FELLOW TRAVELLER : “Er—excuse me, but
there is really no necessity to put my
eye out with the umbrella. I assure
you I cannot see through it.”
turned soldiers. Eighteen old residents are
gone and four more are going. They arrived
there years ago, cleared the land, planted
gardens, and made a living—little more.
But the new men, with one exception,' are
town tradesmen. One instance covers the
lot. The garden is not of the best —a Don-
caster or Burwood man would scoff at it —and
it was offered for sale four years ago at £9OO.
The owner has sold to the Repat. for £l4OO.
The ex-soldier who comes in was a boiler-
maker and can get £4 a week at his trade,
but wants to “try the land.” He says he
will keep up his payments on his implements
(he needn’t pay on the land yet), and if at
the end of three years he doesn’t “make a
do of it” he will hop out and get back to his
trade. But by that time the place won’t
be worth £looo—-perhaps not £5OO. I have
seen a £lOOO garden go down to worse than
grazing land in three years. I asked who
was going to carry the baby. He laughed.
God help our children !
INTO ACTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Church must abandon trench warfare and
assume a definite offensive.” — Annual report of the
Home Mission Society of the Sydney Anglican dio-
cese.
Scene. — -A vestry containing Curates.
(Enter Bishop .)
Bishop :
Ho, boys ! My bully boys !
What stomach is there in ye for a fight?
(Uneasy silence.)
First Cup-ate :
With deference, my Lord, we are not schooled
Like brawlsome pugs to fracture Holy Peace.
Methinks that it would ill-become the Cloth
To bring to Evensong a sabled eye;
Or with ensanguined nose and bruised chops
Instruct our flocks to foster brotherhood.
I stand upon the words of Doctor Watts:
“Let dogs delight”—your Lordship knows the resi.
( Applause, instantly checked.)
Bishop :
You fail to get me, Simpkins. Didst believe
That I would have you battle in the street.
Or, stript and gloved, within a 12ft. ring,
Endeavor to unwind a k.o. punch?
Perish the thought!
Second Curate : Now Heaven be praised for that!
Bishop :
List to my words and riddle them aright.
Your present life suggests the Dugout King,
Or the shrewd lead-swinger who works his nut
To such good purpose that a cushy base
Or soft back-area billet holds him safe.
I want to see you pressing up the line,
Box-respirators at “the ready” poised,
Bombs in your pockets, rifles in your hands,
And three days’ rations in your haversacks.
First Curate: And the objective?
All: Ay, there lies the rub.
Bishop :
The deep entrenched hosts of Wickedness!
Drink where it lurks expectant in its bar;
The pestilentiul Jazz; the Pony Race;
The Show where ladies gambol nakedly—
These foes I’d have you charge with pious zest;
And, putting linen-teas and croquet sets,
Bazaars and district visiting aside,
’Gage with the Devil’s legions hand to hand.
First Curate ( relieved ) :
The perils of the venture cow us not.
No heart here present but is steeled to face
The dance and its concomitants; the play,
Where rounded limbs appal the righteous;
Drink, and the racecourse, too. But we subsist
On stipends far below the incomes owned
By them that wallow in the pits of Sin.
Third Curate:
A wife and sixteen children I support.
No marriage-shirking celibates are here,
No perverts to the Malthus heresy.
How in the circumstances may we cross
That No Man’s Land of limitless expense
Which Bhields from us the Devil and his friends?
Bishop :
This very day have I petitioned Smiggs—
Smiggs who for years has chased with slav’ring
mouth,
Like any hungry hound, a K.B.E.
His bloated bank-account is at our feet.
Wouldst smite the jazzing evil, Simpkins? Know
That all your exes., from the taxi-cab
Which carries you to where the crime is staged,
Down to the note which forms the waiter’s tip,
Will be on Smiggs. You to the races, Smythe,
May take your monstrous family unawed
OUT OF HIS SPHERE.
“My child, let me bring light into your dark-
ness.”
“Better not, old dear —the electricians might
go on strike if you interfere with their
business.”
By thoughts of what the infamy will cost;
And all of you may live in pubs by day
And claim your reimbursements after hours.
All : Hail, Smiggs, the Christian Patriot and Man!
Bishop:
Your verdict will be notified to him.
And now away! Each to his chosen task,
Over the top, intoning “Save the lost,
Smiggs for a K.B.E. and blow the cost!”
x.s.w.
J. B. D.


The Studebaker
“ Li " ”
A HEALTHY Mind in a Healthy Body!”
This is admitted to be the best standard.
A man should direct his energies and govern
his actions to attain this end. The greatest good may
be expected confidently from such harmonious
conditions.
In the construction of the 1920 Light Four the
Studebaker Company is devoted to the attainment
of a result which is similar in principle. A Reliable
Mechanism in a Beautiful Body” is an ideal realised
in the ‘‘Light Four.”
Harmony in bodywork and upholstery, and extra-
ordinary strength and efficiency of the engine,
account for the satisfaction and the service invariably
delivered by this model.
‘Studebaker Special Features
The famous Silent L-Head Engine; the newly-designed Gear Box,
swung on a Sub-Chassis amidships; the Double Thermoid Coupling
Forward; the Hotchkiss Drive; the Silent Spiral Bevel Differential;
Scientific Weight Distribution and Spring Suspension; Magneto
Ignition; Leather-trimmed Khaki Hoods; Goodyear Tyres throughout,
and Complete Equipment.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
Head Office for Australia: 1 77 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Limited, Macquarie Street, Hobart.
New Zealand: Adams Limited, Christchurch,
Palmerston North, Timaru, Wanganui.
ht rour
beautiful in design
dhorouMvmodern
c Mechanically right
Join the National Roads Association (N.S.W.).
fS;M. ■:
.
■
■


m
-
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH
r
WJlhiminatedll
Addresses
for th e
Prince
/7/so In vita ttons
Programs . Menus £ At
Write to Tq)
TRomycoopm
letterpress . Lithographic $
Offset- Printers 4 Artists.
BANK PLACE MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
WHO ARE SPECIALISTS IN ARTISTIC
OFFIC' AL
AMO
telephoned
A Signal Success
<3
i
The TOP-NOTCHScotck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Billy T.”: The most convincing bunyip
I ever came up with had been haunting the Silver
Lagoon at Dargon, Gippsland, for a couple of nights.
Tomms had seen it, so had Major; and Morrison,
Hack, and Purchas had all heard the infernal thing.
Tomms said it was as big as a bull, and had a great
square head like a hippopotamus, and the roar of it
suggested a lion heard through, a phonograph, Morrison
said. When a party was made up at Hackett’s to go
hunting the mysterious thing on the following night,
I volunteered as honorary and inactive member. The
trip to the lagoon entailed a walk of miles, and
we arrived just as the moon was sinking through the
tree-tops. The great, shallow sheet of water spread
before U 6, still silvered in places where the moon-
beams struck its surface, and as we stood and listened
there came to us a strange sound like nothing I had
ever heard before. The eerie moan expressed in-
tolerable woe, and my skin crept at the sound, while
my hair, such as it was, altered its position under my
hat with a distinct disagreeable movement. The men
were all impressed. They spoke in whispers. Tomms,
who was leading the expedition, said softly: “Body
almost as big as a nelephant, same color, same shape
—head like a bloomin’ trunk.” Then, with sudden
excitement, “There ’tis! There ’tis!” He pointed,
and well out in the water we saw the wallowing
body, beheld the curious square-shaped head lift and
fall, and heard the long, low, terrible sound the
beast made. Morrison fired before a protest could be
entered. Purchas fired, and then every man had a
shot or two. It was unanimously agreed not to
investigate further in the darkness. 1 won’t say
fear provoked the decision, but if you say it I won’t
deny. When daylight came we waded out to one of
Hackett’s bullocks covered thickly with mud from
its wallowings in the lagoon where it was bogged,
with its head wedged into a kerosene tin in which
Mrs. Hackett had been making melon jam.
“T-to-tal”: I can tell “Roma” (B.
22/4/’2O) that hayband, if allowed to go through the
cutter, is mighty dangerous for the horses that get
the chaff. Six years ago I put a horse on this diet
and within a week he was all but out. After two
days’ and nights’ attention a movement of the bowels
was effected. Examination showed that the twine had
formed into hard balls. The horse is still alive, but
he hasn’t been fed since on hemp- The Pure Foods
Act should be applied, as many horses have had a
painful death from this cause.
* * * *
“W.A.H.”: The most successful dingo-
trap I have seen was used on a Banana land station.
A dead sheep, skinned, was hung up about sft. from
the ground, with a large jag hook concealed in
the lower portion of the carcase. When a dog
jumped for a mouthful he got hooked and the rest
was easy.
* * * #
“Dolphin”: Few castaways have had n
rougher spin than James Paine and Robert Proud-
foot, of the schooner Hunter, of Hobart Town,
which went sealing at the island of Amsterdam, half-
way between Tasmania and the Cape of Good Hope,
in 1826. They went on shore to
seal, and a boat was to land four
other men and a stock of provi-
sions, but a gale drove the
schooner off the coast and she
never came back. The marooned
men had nothing but the clothes
they stood up in, a few odds and
ends of tucker, a knife, a needle
and a spike-nail. With this equip-
ment they put in 14 months be-
fore the ship Palmyra picked them
up. ’They made a hook out of the
nail, put it on a piece of string
and went fishing, but for lack of
a barb it did not serve too well.
There were wild pigs about, and
they managed altogether to run
down five and kill them with a
stick. The only birds they could
get were petrels, which they
pulled out of their holes, and for
vegetables they had wild parsley.
They had a flint and steel, but
soon used up all their tinder and
then had to keep a fire always
alight. It would not have been
so bad on the neighboring island of St. Paul, for
the hot springs there are warm enough to cook fish.
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Pongo” describes a North
Australian tribe which will have no truck with
mother-in-law. The Zulus are very solid on the same
question. Neither son-in-law nor mamma-in-law may
show any civility to one another. If a Zulu comes
suddenly on the lady he turns away his head, holding
up his shield, if he is carrying one, before his face, or
the inevitable kerrie and quarter staves. The lady,
if she can’t duck out of sight, effaces herself as much
as posible. I saw one respectable Zulu dame—and
Zulu women are the genuine article in “respectability”
—squat suddenly down when meeting son-in-law and
cover her face with the leather apron which was her
only clothing at the time. “Duty before decency” was
her motto.
* * * »
“Bung”: “Yarrum” (B. 22/4/’2O) intro-
duces three champion rabbiters, who on 18,000 acres
of good rabbit country could earn only £l2 a week.
They would take a far-back seat among the commoners
who supply the Bungendore and Cooma works
(N.S.W.). I can make “Yarrum” known to one
rabbiter to whom I have seen a cheque for
£ll 3s. Bd. paid for one night’s catch, and that
at a time when first-grade carcases were bringing
only 11-Jd. per pair. And in the district where at
present I help to keep a roof on the pubs I can
point him out comfortable homesteads that the owners
paid for solely with their earnings from rabbiting.
Of course these don’t represent a fortune, but a
paid-off decent home is regarded as something to-
wards it by the rabbit-fraternity.
* * -* *
“G.”: Contrary to what I think is
pretty general belief, the woomerah is not an
exclusively Autralian weapon. The Pacific knows it
as far north as Vulcan and Dampier Islands; but the
islanders use light spears and woomerahs made of
bamboo. The hardwood stuff of the Australian main-
land would represent heavy artillery to them.
“Corboyne”: For a versatile fisherman
give me Binghi, particularlj’ if he hangs out anywhere
on the North Coast between Cape Don and the Eng-
lish Company’s islands. In this region there grows a
shrub about 3ft. high, round and compact, with very
dense foliage. Armed with a few of these Binghi
will provide enough prawns to feed a tribe. His
method is to deposit the shrubs on a mud flat in about
six inches of water just when the tide is beginning
THE BORN BUYER.
“How much vos dose collars?”
“Two for half a crown.”
“How much vos dey each?”
“One and six.”
“Give me de odcr von.”
to make, then sit clown on the bank and wait. When
the bushes are about covered he wades out very quietly
and drags them gently shorewards. When within a
few feet of the water’s edge he gives the shrub a jerk
on to dry land and collects the prawns that come with
it. With about a dozen bushes I have seen him fill a
kerosene tin in one round. The bush itself seems to
have no attraction for the prawns other than the shade
afforded by the density of the leaves. I might
mention, incidentally, that when eating the insects
Binghi is not too particular about picking off their
stalks.
* * * #
“L. and T.”: In this country, where so
many depend on a water supply from dams during
the summer, it is remarkable that greater efforts are
not made to check one of the greatest water con-
sumers—evaporation. (In the dry inlands the loss
amounts to from Bft. to 12ft. in a year.) I have
found that the best plan is to spread over the water
a few gallons of crude vaseline (worth now under a
bob a pound) when the dam is’ full. The vaseline
is odorless and tasteless, and will be found to retard
evaporation by as much as about one-sixth.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Bishop Newton, of Carpen-
taria (mentioned in B. 15/4/’2O), roughs it with the
best of them. When he visits some of the scattered
islands of Torres Strait he leaves his clerical rig
in his dugout. I have seen him arrive off one of the
islands in a blinding squall, get rowed ashore in an
almost waterlogged dinghy, and scramble in pyjamas
through the surf amidst the welcomes of the assembled
members of a little palm-thatched native-church.
Having to parade in a singlet and towel worn lava-
lava fashion while his orthodox garments are hang-
ing out to dry doesn’t worry Newton one little bit.
* * * * •
“Trig”: Lake George (N.S.W.) has been
puzzling the Land Board. The lake being now dry
again, a number of ex-Diggers have applied for leases
of the bed. 'The place has a queer history, of full-
flood and partial dryness, and of bone-dryness four
times since 1817. In the ’sixties and ’seventies it
remained full for 10 years, and gave such encourage-
ment that a steam launch plied on its waters. Then
it commenced to fade away, and by the end of the
first decadte of this century it was a grazing paddock.
Then, without sufficient rain to justify any change,
it suddenly filled up again, and, as an additional
curiosity, contained fish. Now it has disappeared
once more; but the Land Board isn’t taking risks
with it, and decid'ed not to recommend any leases.
* * * »
“Silas Snell”: ’Enery Harthur, Chinn’s
pommy eighteen-shillings-a-week-an’-keep, was carting
gravel up from the creek, and negotiating a siding
turned his dray completely over, upsetting Spot,
the fleabitten grey, and leaving him poised on his
ridge-pole with his four legs flourishing in the air.
’Enery Ilarthur was in great distress. He surveyed
the situation from every angle, and finally decided
there was only one thing to do. He turned up at
the homestead an hour later, leading Spot, but
without the cart. Chinn was out using vehement
language. ’Enery Harthur explained. “I couldn’t
get the dray up, and I couldn’t get the oss out,”
he said, “but after a while I hit on the very idear.”
“And what did you do, you thund’rin idiot?” de-
manded Chinn. “I bad the base with me,” said
Enery proudly, “an’ I cut off the shafts.”
* * * *
“Dolphin”: The Auckland Islands, away
out between Macquarie Island and Stewart Island
(M.L.), still have what the Macquaries have lost, a
species of bird found nowhere else in the world.
This is the flightless duck (Nesonetta aucklandica) ,
which is confined to
certain islands in the
Auckland group. It
lives mostly amongst
the kelp around the
rocky coasts of the
islands, and is seen
sitting in pairs on the
rocks. It is not quite
as flightless as the
extinct Macquarie
Island parrot used to
be, for it can fly a few
yards. When Captain
J. K. Davis took the
Aurora down to the
Aucklands in 1912, E.
R. Waite, of the
Canterbury Museum,
bagged half a dozen
specimens. The Auck-
lands were discovered
in 1806 by Captain
Bristow, of the Ocean,
one of the Enderly
whalers, bound from
Australia around Cape
Horn. In 1857 the
Enderbys started a
little settlement at
Erebus Cove, but the
place was given up
next year. A good
deal of sealing was
done at the Aucklands
in the old days ; but they never rivalled Macquarie
Island, and the fact that the ducks live mostly at
sea in the daytime has protected them.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: Every year in the autumn a
flock of sacred ibises rest for a while on one of the
loveliest little beaches on Prince o’ Wales Island, in
Torres Strait. And every year in the last half of
August a shoal of salmon spend twelve days basking
and resting in the warm waters just off the sand beatii
on Horn. The fishing is done at night. I caught a fine
specimen weighing 141 b. Where they come from and
where they go no one knows. At least Bishop Gilbert
White doesn’t. And he is a descendant of the great
Gilbert White of S'elborne and much wiser about
many things.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Ever tried boiled leg of alliga
tor? I had a feed of it in a New Guinea village.
The meal was set before me, piping hot, on a green
banana leaf. After I’d stowed away as much as 1
could carry, I was told I’d been eating alligator!
I didn't know whether to let it go at that; but
I held it down and suffered no ill effects.. The meat
was white and tender. I thought I’d been eating
chicken. I was told that the leg is the best part of
the beast for eating, and that the “hand” is con-
sidered a delicacy. The natives hack lumps of the
lizard, skin and all, and boil it —the only way the;
cook it. It doesn’t seem to do them any harm.
They don’t eat the teeth.
A CATCH.
THE WIDOW : “Yes, it is dreadful to lose poor
Jim, and him just after buying a hew
suit, too!”
THE SYMPATHISER : “ Indeed, it's lucky for
yon that he did. You'll get a second
quick enough now, and it's just a matter
of choosing one to fit it.”
“Larrapinta”: I had seen white kangaroos
and once a white crow, but had never heard of a
snow-white wombat. I met him, however, on a
Murray shooting trip. I was about to Are at a
wombat when what I thought was a white stone
moved. It was another wombat, but an albino.
(Continued on page 22 .)
TO AN ABANDONED BREWERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You tremble like a crippled thing of shame;
Your corrugated garments swing and clatter;
Upon your ghostly, warped and twisted frame
Each iron sheet hangs like a faded tatter;
You whimper when the sun is blazing high
And through the town a furnace blast is sweeping;
You wail your empty sorrow to the sky
When autumn clouds are weeping.
Ah! many lips have laved in wholesome froth
That topped cool samples of your master’s brewing;
You warmed staunch hearts and spurred them bravely
forth,
Or proved the wayward wanderer’s undoing.
How many wights, ere times grew dull and slack,
Have sold your ale to folk of mien unruly ?
How many men were forced to take the track
Because they loved you truly?
The dry grass withers in your empty street,
Well formed in better days by sturdy dwellers ;
No longer do you reign supreme to greet
The thirsty pilgrim to your yeasty cellars.
A forlorn wreck that once held thirst at bay,
You were the Mecca of all famished mortals !
But now, alas! the breath of slow decay
Comes through your ruined portals.
By custom you are now abandoned quite;
Your barrels need no more the care of coopers
To hold that stuff which was the chief delight
Of miners, brokers, bankers, tugs and troopers,
When every empty bottle on the road
Displayed the hall-mark of your reputation
In roaring years, when laden Diggers strode
Towards their destination.
“LOR' ONLY KNOWS HOW DRY
WE ARE!”
FIRST STRANGER: “Excuse me, but how far
do we go before we can get something
in the way of a drink?”
FARMER: “Jist come along with me, mister
I has the best well of water in the
whole district!”
The golden days have passed away, it seems,
And passed away is all your stately glory;
At night, mayhap, where some red camp-fire gleams,
You are the hero of a bushman’s story.
He tells a tale of lurid days and nights
With ever fresh supplies of trouble brewing;
The madness of a thousand drunken fights,
When mighty things were doing.
Yes, you have had your palmy years, old friend,
And, like your ancient worshippers, you’re failing.
Life’s long carouse has reached its bitter end,
And there is much infirmity and ailing.
Some day they’ll tear apart your twisted beams
And on a railway-siding stack them neatly,
For golden days have passed away, it seems,
And you are doomed completely.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


“Bookstall” Novels
Brighten Winter Evenings.
Over 100 splendid Australian Novels
1/3 each (1/44 posted).
STEELE RUDD’S famous Selection Stories.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S Humorous Books.
BEATRICE GRIMSHAW’S Adventure Novels.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Sporting Stories.
And Novels by practically every Australian author of note: —
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
jack McLaren.
A. H. ADAMS.
EDWARD DYSON.
JOHN SANDES.
ROY BRIDGES.
AMBROSE PRATT.
M. FORREST.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
31
TEXACO CRATER COMPOUND
'The Great Gear Lubricant
Makes Tractor Gears Last Longer
DURING plowing, sowing and harvesting there’s
a cloud of dust around the gears all the time.
Dust and sand get on the gear teeth, cause rapid
wear—early replacements.
CRATER COMPOUND on gears, chains and sprockets
protects them even under these severe conditions.
In spite of the dust and dirt, this great lubricant sticks
to the treated parts and protects them. It coats each
and every tooth with lubricant, and keeps them coated.
It doesn’t dry or flake off. Neither will it wash off or
melt. It just sticks and lubricates always.
When implements are laid aside in the off-season a
coating of Crater Compound acts as an impregnable
shield against rust. Try a can of Crater Compound now.
It will save you many pounds over a season. If your
storekeeper hasn’t got Crater Compound write to
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) Ltd.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, LAUNCES-
TON; or GEO. P. HARRIS SCARFE & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
TEX'ACO
There is a Texaco Lubricant
for every purpose.”
TEX'ACO
&/?€
LEVIATHAN OVERCOAT.
LAST FEW DAYS—
—Send Your Order Now.
£5/5/-
The Smartest Winter Overcoats at Drastic
Reductions. YOU can feel confident that
a Leviathan Overcoat will ensure absolute
Comfort and Satisfaction.
Single- and Double-breasted Styles.
HIGH-CLASS “CHESTERS” (single
breasted), tailored from Superior English Tweeds,
in medium and dark grey, belted back; highly
recommended for service.
SALE PRICE
SUPERIOR-QUALITY ENGLISH CLER-
ICAL DARK GREY TWEED, half belted
back, and vent, strap cuffs, set-in sleeves, *1 OA I
warmly lined. All sizes. SALE PRICE .. ■*. CAJI “
THE IMPORTED CLERICAL GREY
CHESTER (as illustration), single-breasted coat,
smartly cut, with full skirt, fly front, plain 1 O C /
cuffs, extra large flap pockets. SALE PRICE, * m
MELBOURNE’S BEST COAT, excellent cut
and finish, single- and double-breasted styles, in
superior All-wool Grey Cheviots, with belt-I CA /
at back. All sizes. SALE PRICE AiJV/ ”
TAILORED in DARK GREY CHEVIOT
CELEBRATED DEXTER, TAILORED
in DARK GREY CHEVIOT COATING,
single-breasted styles, semi-fitting, half-belted back,
or plain; unequalled for genuine service. XJQ
SALE PRICE
DOUBLE-BREASTED STEEL GREY
DEXTER, tailored in Cheviot Coating. This is a
thoroughly reliable imported coat, with large lapels,
belted back, smart and stylish. JC 1 1
SALE PRICE
SSll
. ■
*
Please state Chest Measurement and Height.
SPECIAL ILLUSTRATED TAILORING LEAFLET NOW READY.
WRITE FOR COPY.
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
g
THE NEW MAXWELL
TO do one thing well—to do it better, day
after day, tells the story that made build-
ing 300,000 Maxwell Motor-cars on the
original, simple motor design possible.
The Maxwell owner feels proud of the performance of his
Maxwell Car. It has justly earned the reputation of the “thrift
car” because it runs most miles per gallon of petrol and most
miles per tyre with exceptionally low cost for spares.
And the striking appearance of to-day’s Maxwell marks one
of the many steps in the refinement of a remarkable, low-priced
motor-car.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “ Liandum —New York.'
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
x>
o
a
$
«••••
as®
fis
O
6
ART METAL SHOP FRONTS AND SHOW CASES.
ARCHITECTURAL ENRICHMENTS AND ART METAL CEILINGS
Stamping and Spinning done for the Trade. Stamping for Sheet Metal Motor Bodies and Parts a Specialty.
\\ hen planning' buildings or extensions to Factory or Office consult us in the
matter of CEILINGS, WALLING and ROOFING. We Specialise in STEEL CEILINGS,
“DURABESTOS,” “CEILYTE” & ROOFING TILES.
SHOWROOMS:— =================
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH. BRISBANE. HOBART. LATTNOFSTOTV
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 0.P.0., iSydney.
“Yacko” : One of Australia’s most useful
trees, and indigenous to Kangaroo Island, is the
narrow-leafed eucalyptus, since it contains 80 per
cent, solyptol, as compared with the 40 p.c. in mallee.
There are thousands of acres of the tree, and
each year finds more factories for making eucalyptus-
oil starting. The one drawback is the want of
fresh water for condensing. Salt water corrodes the
pipes. The tree is lopped in spring,, when it
contains the highest percentage of oil. There is
an endless supply of the vegetable, for a couple of
years after being lopped the growth is ready for
the knife again.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: I am a barracker for our
Australian birds all the time, but I say “Damn the
crow!” My case against him is that he is a fruit-
eater and a clumsy one at that, knocking off' a dozen
for every one he peeks a hole in. He is also a
destroyer of chickens and an inimitable egg thief.
NO CHANCE AT ALL.
IRATE FATHER (to child who has lost at
poker): “ Didn’t I tell you to cut out
games of chance?”
CHILD: “Yes, I know, father. But this
wasn't a game of chance —I had no hope
from the start.”
He is as destructive as cockatoos on a maize crop
and will tear rosebuds to pieces for the fun of it.
Add to this his fiendishness in harassing weak stock
until they fall exhausted, in pecking the eyes out of
a helpless living' animal, and preying on any suffering
creature too ill to defend itself. The crow may eat
a few harmful insects, but any bushman with a love
for animals will join me in saying “Damn him!”
“FY7”: In his five most popular bush
superstitions “Jim Carew” fails to include the most
popular and universal of them all, viz., that the
young kangaroo grows on the end of the teat in his
mother's pouch instead of being born in the usual
mammalian way.
* * * *
“Te Whare”: When did the moa finally
snuff out? According to an ancient periodical, the
Xew Zealand Magazine, one Meurant, a native inter-
preter, averred that about the end of 1813 he saw
some moa meat at Molyneux Harbor, and moa
feathers in the Maori’s hair. The feathers were black.
with a purple edge, and had
quills coarser than those of an
albatross. Further investigations
resulted in the discovery of a moa
bone, which Meurant said reached
four inches above his hip from
the ground and was as thick as
his knee. This relic still had
sinews and meat on it, the latter
“resembling bull beef.” Another
(less credible) observer named
George Pauley declared that he
saw a moa, and he put its height
at about 20ft. Thirty years later
Captain Sir Everard Howe stated
that, in his opinion, the moa still
existed on the Middle Island, and-
perhaps also on Stewart Island.
The natives of Cloudy Bay in Cook
Strait supported this view by
reporting the presence of a bird
of extraordinary size seen only by
night on the hills. An English-
man subsequently watched for this
chook, and gave out that he had
seen it. He reckoned its height
to be from lift, to 16ft. Some
20 years afterwards a sailor sold
a large marrow-bone, brought
from Maoriland, to Professor
Owen, London, who pronounced it
(though somewhat doubtfully) to
be that of a bird. Finally a big
box of bones, some over a yard
long, arrived at the Professor’s
residence from M.L. From these
relics the great anatomist built rip no less than five
distinct birds, all of the dinornis order, to which
the moa belongs.
* * * *
“Bagolini”: A John Hop was riding a bike
past our office yesterday when he found his back
wheel was rubbing badly against the fork. He
called in and inquired if I would lend him a
spanner to adjust it. I did not have but with
a small piece of wood and a stone I made the wheel
run true, lie invited me to have a drink, but,
being a wowser, I begged off. “Oh, well,” he said,
“if ever it’s my luck to run you in I’ll promise not
to give you the boot when I pass you into the
cells.”
“Barcoo”: Genuine stampeding herds of
overlanding bullocks are rarely seen on the “inside”
nowadays, but many years ago, when Bananaland
bullocks walked to their then market
at Wodpnga, on the Murray, several
of the Barcoo ranches had bad repu-
tations for breeding rushing-beasts,
and drovers were very chary about
. taking them on a trip. One station
in particular, Enniskillen, owned by
Black Allen—he whose widow has just
died in Sydney—was shunned by the
overlander, and it required extra
remuneration to entice men who knew
the herd to chance them on the roads.
Animals from that run ruined the
reputation of more drovers than all
the other cattle in Queensland put
together. Once a mob of bullocks,
whether rushers or not, beats the man
in charge and gets away, however
patiently he may remuster, there is
always a shortage. Which means that
the, trip is a drover’s failure, for no
excuse is allowed the man in charge.
A stampede usually takes place at
some hour of the night during the
first few days that the bullocks have
moved off their own run of country.
If the drovers can get them about a
fortnight on the track they are all
right. One, peculiarity about stam-
peding cattle is that they rush from
no apparent 'cause. Another is, that
they “go” regularly every night, once
they start performing, almost to the
minute. Practically every beast will
be lying down ; then in a flash there
is a mass of crashing horns, and
the mob is off, moving as one beast, before the man
on watch has time to notice what part of the camp
got into its stride first.
* * * *
‘‘Jim Carew”: The Binghis of the Mac-
donnell and Musgrave ranges (Centralia) used to
wear a sort of foot-covering. It was entirely diff-
erent from the well-known kind worn by the natives
of the N. S. Wales sand ridge country. The upper
part was made of woven human hair and the thick
soles were dry grass mixed with gum. On the surface
of the sole was stuck a thick coating of feathers
(generally emu) which made the wearer walk quite
noiselessly. The native name for the footwear is
kaditcha or kadesha. It seems to me significant that,
though I have seen specimens in the possession of
many blackfellows, I have never seen them worn.
“O. Blin”: For finesse in courtship I
commend Edward Scragg of Bolong. Edward had
been dairying for several years beside Milligan’s
plot before he began to sort out Milligan’s three
daughters from their immediate surroundings and
honor them with a scrutiny that was close and
personal. Edward was plainly thinking of mat-
rimony, but the difficulty of deciding between three
plain females varying little in usefulness and hardly at
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
THE MOTOR-CAR: “ Get out of the way,
you !!!”
THE PEDESTRIAN: “I’m not (hie) in the
way—it ’sh (hie) you.”
all in physical particulars kept Edward in sombre
dalliance for many a day. Neither Milligan’s borak
nor the ladies’ competitive cookery ' could bring
the swain to the scratch whenever he called, and
matters remained in abeyance until Edward went
to the Show in Melbin and came back glowing with
a strange discovery. He had been to a palmist, and
had become so fascinated that he had brought back
a manual of the science for home study. For some
days the Milligans saw him not, but one evening
Ted loomed into the kitchen, and discoursing on
palmistry with an unwonted flow of language, was
soon poring over the hands of Alice, Sophy and
Emma. He glibly promised Alice, the youngest, the
usual fortune across the water; Sophy could also
hope for a big prize in Tatt.’s; but the geography
of Emma’s palm kept him puzzled and silent. She
trembled as his black whiskers tickled her wrist,
and she had time to watch the wart on his nose
flame from the blood called to the brain before he
broke out of his meditation. After great suspense
he looked up and asked warily: “ ’Ow d’ye git
them corns on your ’ands?” “Milkin’,” she mur-
mured in a sort of silly surprise. “Ah, now I begin
ter see,” he said, peering profoundly into the paw,
“yo’re goin’ ter marry a ’andsome bloke with black
whiskers and a wart on ’is nose.”
* ’ * * *
Dear B., — Re par by “Toby CL” (B.
22/4/’2O). I have seen frogs jumping into fire.
This is how I did it. After a hard day’s work pill-
rolling I was called by wire to go from Hillston to
Cudgellico (75 miles) at once: serious case. I rode
all that night through flooded roads and ’lignum
swamps and as many frogs as there are human
swine in Germany. I attended the patient all the
next day till sundown, and started back in a thunder-
storm. Rode all night, and was so cold and tired
by daylight that I had to get off and make a fire.
I had to dry the gum-leaves with my handkerchief
before, they’d catch alight. While I was warming my
numbed hands I saw frogs jumping into the fire. I’d
have sworn it. And I had not had any brand of
alcoholic drink. (If I had I might not have seen
them.) When I got home I slept for 24 hours. —
Your Dr. Nil.
* * ■ * *
“Scottie the Rake”: As camp-robbers I
want to back the old mokes that knock around the
Far Northern mining-camps against anything that
wears hair. Number of legs no consideration. I
came home one Saturday noon, and the sight that met
my eyes made me weep. The camp looked as if had
been having an argument with a mad steam-roller.
The tent was down and the bough-shed was hanging
by one corner. My “ant-proof” had been upset and
its contents, including several tins of treacle, had
been spread over the landscape and trodden flat.
On taking stock I found the maniacal implement
aforementioned had eaten 201 b. of dry salt meat, 25
of flour, 10 of sugnr, half a dhmper, a small bag of
salt and three-quarters of my best flannel shirt. The
other quarter was soaking in treacle. What remained
of the balance of my working possessions was torn
and trampled into a hopeless mess. I remembered
then having noticed an old moke hanging about for
several days and that my neighbor’s camp had rails
around it. I had a burning 1 desire to meet that horse,
but he had “folded his tent” and stolen away, that
being the only thing left. My reason told me that
he would want water and shade after such a meal,
so the creek would be the place to find him. Tossing
the remains of my tent aside, I dug frantically
among the wreckage until I found the rifle and a
belt of cartridges, ar.d set off on foot. (My brother
had taken the horses to Georgetown.) My luck was
out. I forgot that there had been two tins of water
at the camp that morning. I rebuilt my camp and
put rails around it. A kangaroo-shooter blew in
some time after and pitched a fly, under which he
stacked his gear while he had a look at the country.
I noticed on going out in the morning that same old
moke standing listlessly under a tree some distance
away. He wasn’t there when I returned. Neither
was the fly. Some of it was on a bush near the creek.
I will pass over what the kangaroo-shooter said when
he returned. He was a bad man but a good shot,
! <nd I haven’t seen the old moke since. Old Harry
Dodd’s 6xB was a new addition to the camp on
Little Stony. Passing one morning with a long-
handled shovel 1 noticed the tail end of Black
Joe’s famous steed sticking out of Harry's door.
Sneaking up I landed the blade on the butt of his
tail. A stirring scene followed. Harry Dodd’s tent
left for fresh fields, with Black Joe’s horse inside.
It seemed to be still in a hurry when it passed the
skyline;
* * * *
“Gouger”: A white-man friend very
urgently needed £lO. Now, in our little Far North
community ready money is very scarce, but £lO had
to be got and this is how it was done. From the
white-man packer the borrower got £3. From the
one lone cocky, 15s. From myself, half a crown.
Proceeding to the blacks’ camp we collected 275. from
some just-paid-off bOche-de-mer boys. From
the half-wild nigs 11 sixpences were dredged.
Down the river, 30 bob was raked from Antonio
the Portugee pearler. A little further down 10s.
was commandeered from Tarqua, the Malay fisherman.
Ilarhua, his cousin, panned out at 3s. 6d. From the
Jap Shimoko, utfio had just anchored his lugger in the
mouth of the river, 275. was collected, and from
five Kanakas further along the bay the balance was
raised. If we could have walked as far as Thursday
Island we might have collected a thousand quid.
* * * #
“Dolphin”: Cannibalism in Papua is the
outcome of a philosophy, and not of a habit of eating
human flesh because the cannibals like it, or because
they crave for meat and are short of other Icinds, or
for any other such simple reason. At least so thinks
Lieut. K. W. Chinnerv, who was an R.M. in Papua
from 1909 until he went to the Front and became an
airman, following that up with a run first as student
and then as lecturer in anthropology at Cambridge
Uni. To put the matter shortly, the Papuans hold,
or did hold before the white man interfered with
them, that there is a kind of soul-acid, or substance
which permeates a man’s body, and also things
habitually in contact with him to sdme extent. For
instance, some of a maids “soui” rehiaihs in hair and
nail-paiinge, and if a sorcerer gets hold of these he
can 'set up a sort of “sympathetic” trouble in the
former owner s body and make things uncomfortable
for him. When, therefore, you eat a citizen, or
rather part of him, you absorb some of his soul-
substance and add it to your own. That gives you a
gi eater soul, and, what is still more important, you
are a greater ghost or spirit when you die,
unless you are eaten by someone else. Canni-
balism to the Papuan therefore was bound up with
his philosophy or religion, just as homicide, with or
without cannibalism to follow, was bound up with
the social system of many tribes wherein a young
fellow was not reckoned a man till he had killed
someone.
IKEY’S OBJECTION.
REBECCA ( eager for an early marriage):
“Oh, Ikey, vot more do ve vandt?
( quoting ) ‘Two hearts vot beat like
von’ !”
IKEY : “Dot ’sh all very well. But two
mouths doand’t neffer feed like von!”
A Melbourne citizen claims to have dis-
covered that mosquitoes have an ear for music. He
finds that the lowest G-note on the flute, played in
the twilight, brings them around him in swarms.
The more he plays this note the more excited they
become, whereas any other note leaves them cold.
THE SCHOOLMA’AM’S DAINTY FANCY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I had been telling my class that human hair
often grows after its owner’s death, and that in
cases where coffins had been opened some time after
the bunal the corpse had been found to have a
prolific crop.”—“ Schoolma’am ß. 29/i/’2O.
The little ones about my knee
Were clustered in a knot;
Their innocence appealed to me
And made the sunbeams dance in glee.
Dull lessons were forgot;
The soft breeze fanned us with his breath,
And, fittingly, we dwelt on death.
I felt it would be mad to talk
Of verbs on such a day;
At once I laid aside my chalk
And let my happy fancy walk
Upon the faery way;
For parsing is a dreary thing
When all the little birdies sing.
1 like to think that school is more
Than merely dull routine,
And so I drew upon my store
Of whimsical and elfin lore,
And oh, you should have seen
The close attention that they ga\e
To my droll Peeps into the Grave!
1 vow it made the pulses leap
To watch their bright young eyes,
As I described how dead men sleep
In beds commodious and deep
And never need arise
Until the last trump blows away
The cloak of worms and moist decay.
They clapped their chubby hands as I
Described the crops of hair
Which grow when barbers are not nigh,
And how the dead don’t have to buy
A shave lest folk should stare--
It was a task to banish gloom,
Our joyous lesson on the tomb!
VICTORIA.
DALE.


/X:.
! I
\
;
I <5
*->' ?
3-<2r.*~yy,
SC
*4
-•-
1 *4 J l
■s
s$
>».
feS
/
£
4
1S
&
$
IVs
wa
%
• »t
.'V
j
/
&
>
<«
•*e
• «Vii*« A»
sb,
**
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z
> \
K-
-0
nu
&
N 5
For
Service
and
Reliability
Thousands of Miles
free of trouble follows using
DUNLORS
Their quality and thickness ensures
economy in tyre upkeep and en-
ables you to get the best out
of motoring. Always use
them —it pays!
j


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
=K&,
wm
%
L
COLDS
COUCHS
0
CROUP
LUNG
TROUaUJ
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
by that test how do we stand? Miss Titzel
herself provides the answer in this table: —
Infant Mortality Rates in Different Countries
for Specified Year (Deaths Under One Year
per 1000 Live Births).
Maoriland (1917) .. .. .. .. 48
Australian Commonwealth (1915) .. .. 68
Norway (1914) .. .. .. .. .. 68
Sweden (1913) 70
Ireland (1913) .. .. .. .. .. 83
Netherlands (1915) .. .. .. .. 87
Switzerland (1914) .. .. .. .. 91
England and Wales (1916) .. .. .. 91
Denmark (1915) .. . . . . .. .. 95
United States (1916) .. .. .. .. 101
That, so to speak, is the proof of the pud-
ding.
(Democracy in Reconstruction, Houghton
Mifflin Co., Boston, through the Australasian
Publishing Co.)
Town-Planning Books and Slum
Literature
In Sydney, the oldest and biggest and most
casually-laid-out city in Australasia and also
the one with most people in the least area,
any philanthropist can gain a reputation to-
day by protesting against slums and against
the way people are huddled together regard-
less of health and decency. Naturally he
then also protests against the long and costly
distances the outliers have to travel to their
work, and the time they waste going to and
fro, and in most cases he discourses, further,
on the need for a reduction of working hours
and consequently of production to make up
for this waste wandering. Almost any man
of facile pen and loose-hung jaw can get into
Parliament by protesting against the way
people—poor tenement dwellers and rich
flat-dwellers —are huddled together, especi-
ally if he at the same time bexasts that his
is a Queen City and that there is no limit
to its expansion and huddleisient. About
this time he becomes a town-planner or
builder of castles in the air, and if his jaw
holds out he becomes a Minister.
There is a big literature of pirotest against
the way the people are huddled together
where Queen Cities arise and there are 450
people to the acre, wherefore they lack the
cottage and garden life which makes exist-
ence beautiful. It is fiction, of course —the
serious writer who is expected to offer some
feasible remedy for the evil he denounces
rather skirmishes around the outskirts of
the subject. But the heroic novelist who
can invent an impossibly noble hero with
telegraph-pole legs and an impossible heroine
with wonderful hair, both of them with
impossible wealth, has tried his hand boldly
at the congestion problem. With all the
resources of his imagination he has failed
miserably and left the problem where he
found it.
Charles Dickens, who knew London well,
said a lot of things about the habitations
of the people in such works as “Bleak
House” and “Little Dorrit,” and he struck
Lancashire in the solar plexus with “Hard
Times.” But though he heaped much male-
diction on the Court of Chancery and the
Circumlocution Office he shed no light on
how the people could be much better housed
when there were so 'many of them in such
little space. Bleeding Heart Yard and Tom
All Alone’s were still standing at the finish.
Walter Besant knew London, the world's
biggest city, far better than Dickens. In
fact, no one knew it better, and he loved it,
and he was a humanitarian of a high type.
He tackled the need for reform and town-
planning. In “Children of Gibeon” he set
his wealthy heroine in a tenement house
with money, intelligence and a yearning to
do good. She soothed the death-bed of the
girl who had something wrong with her back,
pacified the red-headed girl, and rescued the
flighty girl from possible Flossiedom. Then,
having got to the end of his tether, he with-
drew his bogged forces, leaving the tenement
houses as they were. He made another and
bigger effort in “All Sorts and Conditions of
Men.” His heroine, in addition to her high
character and her college degree, owned a
brewery and ivhole streets of mean houses.
She went to live among the mean streets and
threw the resources of her soul and the
brewery into the uplift. She started a dress-
makery in which the girls were paid twice
the market value of their work, and built a
Palace of Delight in which there were music
and entertainments and joy and gas and the
light fantastic toe. But Besant, with a
great mind and great intentions and all the
breweries and heroines on earth or off it
to draw upon, couldn’t discover how to make
life happy and airy and spacious where hun-
dreds of people were living on every acre,
or even how to make it clean and moral and
intelligent. So, lacking the courage to burn
down London, he gave up town-planning and
married his heroine to a man of the people
and left them to live happily ever after and
fight it out.
In “Csesar’s Column” a revolt was organ-
ised against the overcrowding evil, and the
worse evils that spring from it. But the
hero, being unable to town-plan, fled in an
aeroplane to Central Africa, where there was
still room. A similar effort in “When the
Sleeper Wakes” threw no light on the prob-
lem of giving every resident of a big city
his own cottage and garden, and the hero
died nobly to avoid further explanation.
“In the Market Place” includes a person
who, having made a fortune by Stock
Exchange fraud, was deciding to embark
in the town-planning business when the book
ended. Winston Churchill made a recent
effort in “The Dwelling-Place of Light,”
wherein he depicted an ideal little town of
affluent philanthropists outside a very
beastly and grimy U.S. city. But if the
people of the city had come into the ideal
town it would have been beastly, too, and
if they had all lived in ideal towns they
would have required the whole U.S. to them-
selves. So the nice girl from the beastly
city died in the ideal town of affluent philan-
thropists leaving an illegitimate child, and
the subject of town-planning was dropped
amid a haze of Christian charity. Wells
in “The War in the Air” settled the con-
gestion problem by killing almost the whole
human race except Bert Smallways. But
that wasn't really a solution. It was only
Noah’s idea in a new form.
These are a few random samples taken
from memory, but books of the sort are in
thousands.
The question of having huge centres of
population without too many people in them
has been tackled by men with brains far
above the average. With billions of imagin-
ary money at their disposal and Time and
Space feeding out of the hand they have
failed to abolish their own imaginary slums.
Among them all they haven’t produced one
story which shows how, in a city even the
size of Sydney (which is no marvellous or
unprecedented city), the ideal town-planning
life is possible. Jules Verne was the pro-
phet, and a wonderfully capable prophet, of
the submarine and the airship. St. John
and Mohammed had revelations of Paradise.
But none of these, not even St. John, had
a revelation about putting several million
people into a small space one tram-ride
across and giving them all abundant room—
of having congestion without being congested
and giving every sardine his own cottage
and lawn in the tin. Where they failed
there is little hope for the jawful man
whose only qualification is that he became
Member for Bumpus by a small majority.
Australia, anyhow, could postpone the pro-
blem for a century or two by making it a
policy to have as many States and capitals
and seaports and inland manufacturing
centres as possible instead of one or two
monster cities inhabited by town-jammers.
And in two or three centuries the countries
that are really up against it may have solved
the problem.
HENRY HORSECOLLAR.
Pen and Ink
However a man falls or rises, is driven or
after long striving climbs, into the business of
letters, when he is there, as the priest of the
phrase, he is always there. He may take his
profession curelessly as a journalistic mill
tor an income; he may take it and himself
with deadly seriousness, wasting days of
potential earning on an unsaleable essay;
he may take the auto-suggested sound of
readers’ plaudits for the sum of his literary
duty and effort; he may write bad verse in
radiant poverty, or sadly edit The Times--
in any of these choices he is a writing man
only; one of the generation of the Recorders
who stood apart making prehistoric notes
with a small bit of stone on a bigger bit.
Now, with a fountain-pen clipped in liis
waistcoat, he sometimes sells his birthright
for a seat in Parliament. That presents no
difficulty to his ability, whatever it may do
to his sense of humor ; for words and their
creation of impression are his trade. But
when his sense of humor has died of oppres-
sion at last and he is truly a public man, the
private man is naked of all possessions save
pen and ink and the true words jostling in
his mind. He is a writing man; all his
encumbrances beyond these tools of his craft
are stolen goods.
He is a stranger in all companies; the
watcher apart, recording the company for
those who follow. His world is jealous of
him and of the happiness the passing moment
makes for even the hungry body of his first
bitter fight. His father blanches or
empurples at the diffident beginning of his
rebellion. What for? Here is a good busi-
ness, one of the solidest in Kamscliatka, in
fact; ready-made; lucrative; no worry or
anxiety (“I went through all that for' you
20 years ago, my boy”) ; nothing wanted but
a good suit of clothes and the hours from
9 to 5. Why this second-rate scribbling, of
all things? What is the use of it? If he is
a strong-minded youth (conventional strong-
mindedness is not the Recorder’s habit) he
laughs, and tells the old 1 man to go to the
devil. Usually, his pen-and-ink brain seeing
too vividly and sympathetically both sides of
the cowardly question, he gives in, and for
some years keeps the good suit and the
hours. The mastery of the ready-made
business is a simple matter for him, as is
anything for which more simplifying tools
are provided than bare pen and ink. Given
the enthusiasm of youth, there is nothing
that he cannot do—nothing. His craft is
the impact of a hidden personality upon any
number of hidden personalities; it is not
likely that the mere business conflict of two
visible, ready-made entities will disturb him.
As for the mysterious, sacred technicalities,
these are only the schoolboy’s memorising of
his subject; and who has a better memory
than the Recorder ?
After some years of “the office” and
machinery, it gradually dawns on him that
the world is not doing him a favor by allow-
ing him to earn distastefully a living accord-
ing to pattern. Youth’s enthusiasm in
achievement per se having gone, he gets out,
with the “copy” of the good suit’s dormant
years. He ascends to first principles by way
of lost prestige and security, and occasional
hunger. He becomes the simplest and least
arrogant of the artists, demanding no Strad.
violin and concert-hall, no grease-paint and
box-office, no canvas and spotlight. His
outfit is some paper and a stub of pencil;
or, failing that, anyone to hear his words
and carry them along the road. The parting
gift of Convention is commonly a warning of
privation and the ultimate gutter, and of
steady unhappiness; that is the last jealous
shot at the rebel. The privation is true for
a time; but the gutter and the unhappiness
are a lie.
These men are happy. I am one of them;
and I know. The stuff that we do may not
be, in our own eyes, good; it is often bad —
very bad. It may not, in the needs of
current journalism, be the best that we can
do. Furthermore, that suspended best may
be finally killed by the increasing pressure of
those needs. Yet, striving first to get the
angle of the paper’s traditional view-point,
and, having got it, striving to get past the
“reader” with something entirely your own;
and all the time striving bitterly to get the
suspended .best upon your paper, angular or
straight—there is something in that. Not
ready-made, or made -at all, the something
has no end save death; and all of it you
make yourself. And all of the nameless,
endless thing is happy, to the last syllable on
the paper, the syllable so far below the beat.
Some of us have a bad time, of course;
mainly by what is known as our own fault.
That there is no such thing is one of our
secrets far beyond Convention’s ken—as far
from that narrow place as is our certainty
of happiness. Years ago my mother was at
her evening work in her kitchen in a Lon-
don suburb. It was the winter, and dark ;
the children were in bed, and my father not
yet home from his work. Answering a timid
tap at the door, she found a man almost in
rags, grey and half-dead with cold, who
asked her for his fare to London —he was
spent with 20 miles of the road, and could
go no further. He would take no more than
the Td. which was his fare, a cup of tea and
some bread and butter. Nearly inarticulate
as he was with shyness and exhaustion, my
mother managed to gather that he was a
writer whose publisher had sent for him;
having no money, he had tried to walk,
giving in at Balham. His eyes burned in
his ashen face, where long hunger and
fatigue were written. In spite of impor-
tunity, he took only his 7d., blest my mother,
and went. When I was grown up she
showed me his portrait in a book of his
verse; it was Francis Thompson. If any
man had cause to curse God and die he had.
Utterly inadequate to the least traffic with
reality, even to the cashing a cheque or buy-
ing a‘loaf, he stumbled through years of the
bitterest pain, mental and physical, that a
man could be asked to bear, dogged all the
way and into his grave at the end by the
laudanum habit. Starvation and real desti-
tution were his portion in the wretched years
until Wilfrid Meynell took him into his
house, gave him quiet for his pen and ink,
and helped him to die. Yet his cry to the
end was that he was happy, had been happy
in the doss-houses and on the streets, in his
morphia and hunger, in his constant prox-
imity to death, in the moments that were full
of action and terror as in those that were
empty even of thought—happy all the time
—happy. . . , . .
Some of the writing-men go by in opium
and sorrow with Francis Thompson, and
some sit in editorial chairs. Some carry a
heritage of ceaseless pain, and many work
in the bondage of drink and dishonor.
Others are public men with one heart for
the world and another that is dead for soli-
tude. But I know that no true unhappiness
or poverty lies in wait for any Recorder.
The poor tools, the pen and ink that make
our boundless wealth, are the barriers of our
inviolable place apart, our sanctuary of
happy, endless effort.
HILARY LOFTING.
The Inky Way
In 1818 two citizens named Fisher and
Duncan started a paper-mill at what is
now the corner of
Bourke and Eliza-
beth-streets, Water-
loo, Sydney, and
it is recorded that
in 1820, just 100
years ago, a sup-
plementary issue
of the Sydney
Gazette was
printed on paper
produced at this
mill. But we have
made a lot of pro-
gress since then,
and now can afford
to import our
paper from North
America or Scan-
dinavia, and bor-
row the money to
pay for it.
HARRISON
OWEN, who is
leaving for Eng-
land to brighten
up the papers in
the Fog.
“First Old Man” : Comrade Boote advises
every Worker reader to read Bernard
Shaw’s latest play, “Heartbreak House,”
which, he says, “is wildly hilarious, with a
streak of craziness running through it.” I
myself would like to read it, but not being
a “worker” I can’t afford the Os. 6d. asked
for it.
A Satchel of Books
The Guards Game Through, by Arthur
Conan Doyle (John Murray, London). A
book of verses that are likely to be popular
as recitations. There is little or no poetry
in the lines, and most of the pieces are of
passing interest, but they are fairly well
done, and here and there the work has a
pulse in it. Above, the average level of
English topical verse.
Benjy, by George Stevenson (John Lane,
London). Priscilla and Johnny have a large
family, and one of the boys is named Benjy.
That’s about all there is in it, though the
characterisation is not bad, and Priscilla
is well drawn. The book is full of abnor-
mally long sentences with the main verb
about as far down the page as Cicero used
to put it.
The Paths of Glory, edited by Bertram
Lloyd (George Allen and Unwin, London).
This is an anthology of verse written dur-
ing the war. It contains a great deal that
is very striking, but not much essential
poetry. Some of the things included show
bad judgment in selection; for there are
pieces which contain nothing but descrip-
tions of horror and dirt couched in abomin-
able language, without even a shadowy pre-
tence of rhyme or rhythm. A good burst
of Australian swearing would make a far
worthier “poem” than a few that are in-
cluded. Take a sample :
THE HAPPY WARRIOR.
His wild heart beats with painful sobs,
His strained hands clench an ice-cold rifle,
His aching jaws grip a hot, parched tongue,
And his wide eyes search unconsciously.
He cannot shriek.
Bloody saliva
•Dribbles down his shapeless jacket.
- I saw him stab
And stab again
A well killed Boohe.
Thk is the happy warrior,
This is he. .. .
Only that; and Bertram Lloyd calls it a
poem !


*
o
A
$
<?
se
Cards on the Table.
You can’t make any storage battery last forever —that’s
a fact. ■ ;
You’ve got to keep it filled with water and test it, just
like a tyre has to be kept filled with air, or it will cost
you money.
Some day —if you have an ordinary battery —it’s sure to
have to be re-insulated, no matter who made it.
\
But —if you’ll buy a Willard Battery with Threaded
Rubber Insulation, you’ll get clear away from the biggest
cause of battery troubles. The Insulation will probably
last as long as the plates.
f
STORAGE
BATTERY
.Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
C WillardJ
STORAGE
BATTERY


&
rr?r<
y *• K
(I'.V r't
H/’ 1 4
SKIIMGETTERS!
Your safest step is to consign RABBIT,
FOX, KANGAROO, WALLAROO, WAL-
LABY, WHIPTAIL, GOAT and all other
skins to—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Salesmen only. Not buyers or dealers.
“RED RING”
RABBIT TRAPS
COMPLETE WITH PINS.
Better, lighter, stronger, and very much
cheaper than imported Traps, and, above all,
are
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
And giving universal satisfaction amongst
Trappers.
If unable to obtain “RED RINGS” from your
Storekeeper, write direct to —Sales Agent:—
R. N. KIRK,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
wmm.
II
M
: li
urn*.
Motor Bicycles
For Solo and Sidecar.
—_— it,
On a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle fitted
with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
you can obtain all the power,
speed and comfort necessary for
the complete enjoyment of Solo
or Sidecar Motor Cycling. The
various B.S.A. Models give ab-
solute reliability and service
under the most severe tests and
are very economical.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
Send for latest Catalogue showing
machines in actual colours, and con-
structional details exclusive to B S. A.
Mo lels with full explanation.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Atmu'&lian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
BENNETT 8 WOOD LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
□
VT7,
II
II
ffl II IfITl II ffl I;
'MOTOR BICYCLES'
"Miifffuiifijr
ii
ARTIFICIAL EYES.
To ensure a natural appearance an artificial
eye must be an exact match in size, shape and
color. This can only be accomplished by
making to the requirements of each individual
patron, and specialising in the manufacture of
SNELLEN REFORM and TAYLOR PATENT FILLED
CAVITY MOVABLE EYES
to your satisfaction. Exact copier, can be
reproduced from damaged patterns.
I am the sole agent in Australia for Mr. G.
Taylor, London, and have the exclusive right
to manufacture under his patents. All pat-
terns left in London with Mr. Taylor have
been transferred to me for future execution.
Visits will be made to other States. Particu-
lars on application.
L. MERRETT,
Moffitt Chambers, 283 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
AUSTRALIAN
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
ƒg
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99,9% guaranteed). *
SPELTER
BHAS
BRAND
Coht&ining about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust -Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES- Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agents
R. N. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
COMMUNITY PLATE
1511 Sssf iHi mi i
| A
•I r*»i
m
kU.c# JiWH
l 1
111
|l! fc t;
■ uStijj
\u ’ m&m m
h
Jmf-
Breakfast Room of the Baroness de Meyer
Discriminating Hostesses
prefer COMMUNITY
CUTLERY for the grace
and splendour that it lends
to the table.
Its period Designs—Adartl,
Sheraton, Hepplewhite and Pao
fician, seem to breathe of the
romantic and historic past, and
giVe to COMMUNITY PLATE
that subtle charm that casts its
spell upon all lovers of the
beautiful and finds its way into
palaces.
Comniunity Plate carries vVitH
■it the guarantee of 50 year*
Service aiid its designs are strictly
its own arid are not duplicated ill
any other quality It not only
cdrries a very thick plate of
silver, but an additional overlay
qf purfe ‘■ilVer has been,added at
the base Bf the bowl, more than
doubling the durability.
A few of u the distinguished
natrons of “Community” are—
The Baronbis de Meyer, New
York; Lady Randolph Churchill.
London : O. H. P. Belmont;
Mrs Oliver Harriman, N. Y.;
Duchess of Rutland, London;
Mrs Honore Palmer, Chicago;
Duchess of Marlborough ano
Countess Cadogan, London; Mrs.
Reginald C. Vanderbilt, N.Y.
Have Community Cutlery in
your home.
On sale at the leading shops.
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
The Banking House, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney
Established 1848, Incorporated 1881 at Oneida, New York, U.S.A.
Also makers of Oneida Community RELIANCE PLATE (Guaranteed 25 years)
Oneida Community PAR PLATE (Guaranteed 10 years)
Patrician Design
-TC'" -1 '
There is no slight-
ing of labor and
no skimping of
materials in the manu-
facture of 1 hist le Shirts
—They are perfect but .
easy fitting across the f
chest, do not bind at i
the arm holes, have full j
skirt length, stripes that I
are centred and match f
properly, and pre-shrunken
neckbands that assure perfect
collar comfort. Thistle Shirts
are the best *
Sold at all Lending
Shirt Departments.
Have you tried
THISTLE PYJAMAS ?
\ Alexander Stewarl 8 Sons Lid
4 Makers
Brisbane and Sydney.
AS 18 4
m
be pen
Cleans I
ILegula
Brifc^h
Ask for ONOTQ
elf.
fcure.
®est for ail Pens
Business, Robbery, etc.
“J.G.”: While we are considering the
wombat (called badger in Tassy), I would
like to know definitely what is the value
of its skin. Nobody has assessed it to me
as being worth much more than nil. Yet
a while back I saw in The Bulletin an
advt. from a St. Louis (U.S.A.) firm an-
nouncing that at the approaching sales of
fur there were to be (59,000 Australian
wombat skins offered ; and a month or
two later there appeared another advt,
from the same firm saying that at the
following sale there would be 58,000 AuatrO-
liau wombat skins. What’s the expMiiation t
*** - *
“Dust": The Westralian Government pro-
posed some time ago to sell its sawmilling
venture at Manjimup to a French syndicate,
and would have gone to sale but for fear of
the voter’s power. Now Manjimup has come
to the fate usually reserved for sawmills —
destruction by fire, and a loss of £30,000.
But the monetary loss is not so serious as
the failure of output in a market already very
bare. It takes months to build one of' these
big mills even if the plant is handy; and
meantime your stocks are diminishing and
your customers slinking off to other sup-
pliers.
* * « *
“Tabae” : Miners and others in the Chil-
tern (Vic.) district have found a way of
beating the high cost of living on one point.
They have taken to growing and curing
their own tobacco, and while it is not.quite
like the orthodox article, it smokes all right
and costs nothing or next to nothing. In
the old days the rule of every man his
own tobacco-maker used to be not uncom-
mon in some of the back-country districts.
Some people, in fact, used to even grow
their '" ,v "u vegp f '’'’ps.
* * * #
_“P. Pawnticket”: The law is an uncer-
tain fowl. There are people who systemati-
cally dodge the cash desk after they have
dined or tea-ed ; and even if the meal-vendor
catches them he is powerless—the price of
the meal is a mere civil debt, and to recover
the eighteenpence or so it must be pursued
through the tedious processes of the civil
courts. But when the other day a man pre-
sented a bogus meal docket for 9d. after
being handed one for Is. 9d. by his waitress,
he got 14 days without the option. So he
who pays a part of his liability can be pun-
ished, whilst he who declines to meet any
of it goes scot free.
* * # #
“Albatross”: The sailing craft built at
Hobart in the “good old days” were mostly
constructed of blue-gum. Amongst them
were the Harriet McGregor—she was a
barque of between 300 and 400 tons —and
the Acacia. The Harriet for years made
regular trips from Hobart to London,
battling through the stormy domains of
Daddy Horn —a Tassy ship laden with Tassy
goods and manned by Tassy sailors. This
craft, with the lines of a yacht, was recog-
nised in her day as being one of the smartest
and “tightest” little sailers nosing salt water.
Blue-gum planking is, in fact, so “tight”
that hardly any moisture trickles through
the seams, and this is not an unmixed bless-
ing. That queer fact is well illustrated
in the case of the Acacia, which developed
dry rot inside the hull. The Acacia finished
her career by coming in conflict with a piece
of her native island ; but the McGregor was
sold to Denmark, and, as far as I know, is
still running. I believe the Danes re-christ-
ened her Sea Queen.
CLOTHES AND THE MAX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An ironworker, before the Basic Wage Commission,
described dungarees as “a degrading sort of gar-
ment.”
Though Bill have muscles hard as nails, an Apol-
lonian neck
And noble torso wrapped in brawn, he is a mental
wreck.
He cannot hold his head aloft, in pride expand his
chest,
Nor stand erect, a man among the strongest and the
best.
He will not straighten out his back nor stiffen up
his knees
While he must wear, as working slops, degrading
dungarees.
Before the man-made engines of high-speed and
mighty power
That multiply his labor as he guides them, hour on
hour,
The sinew of the nation stands, a poor degraded
thing,
His head bowed down, his . wary face pinched with
bitter suffering.
In inward pain he shrinks and squirms before the
eye that sees
A man like him at labor in old, greasy dungarees.
With what a hangdog air he toils among these splen-
did things
To whose unwilling nether limbs such humble clobber
clings!
To salve his-stricken soul a really high-class worker
needs
The aid of chic, uplifting pants, done in expensive
tweeds.
The dignity of labor? Pish!—an old and outworn
wheeze 1
What toiler can be dignified in dirty dungarees?
At work amid the whir of wheels, or dumbly digging
spuds,
His life is full of gloom who strives in crude and
common duds.
The man of decent standards should, to rise above
the brute,
Attune his soul to higher things by wearing clothes
to suit;
For he whose simple working-togs are all alike tts
peas
Can’t have that somewhat-different look in slop-
made dungarees.
With trousers now the acid-test of manhood’s quality,
What hope for Bill, no matter how high-minded hd
may be?
Aye, though he be a gentleman by nature or by
birth,
The lord of all creation seems a thing of little worth
While his nobility is hid beneath a pair of these
Impossible, undignified, degrading dungarees.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


.
JkV
v -f:
a
vd
"H
tt?
Q
P, I 1
U I '■■ V
|jyK /
>1
m
Wm
%
&
1
i
, ; ,
« .
i
■
m,
M
■ :», :'!•.
V
HH
.-
MPM
• ; •-,.;,,
• -.-
m
f "■
Mmnm *
■
V'.' :
ill
1
■
: ;
i
;
:
’A
ilBlf
M
A?
MMI
H
'
u
$
s
■■
1
I
' ■
m
Weight and Quality Built
into Perdriau Tyres.
COMPARE the weight of a Perdriau Tyre with that of higher-
priced imported tyres.
Perdriau Tyres are heavier, because there is more
rubber and canvas in them.
Perdriau Tyres are better because the rubber and
canvas is the finest obtainable in the world’s
markets.
This solid value “built in” expresses itself in sturdy
road service and added mileage.
Obtainable from
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH.
f
| Sturdy!
Australian
mammrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmammrn
ƒgf


ffote>nx>f
[jos/eiy
Holeproofs are made by
scientific methods, de-
veloped onip in recent
pears.
ODearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of always having
perfect Hosiery soft,
neatly-fitting, stylish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“HOLEPROOF ”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multiply their
durability.
If your dealer cannot supply
you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltp.
50 York Street :: Sydney.
williams;
fel&lc Powder
• LILAC U
At all .
Chemists
ITS delicacy,
its exquisite
perfume like
that of fresh
cut flowers, its
velvety softness
make the use of
WILLIAMS’
ENGLISH
LILAC TALC
POWDER
a satisfaction
and delight.
You will also like
Williams’ Car-
nation, LaTosca
Rose, Violet,
Matinee (new)
and Baby
Talc.
Williams
English Lilac
Talc Powder
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States. 3d.
If any illustration appearing in Thb
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
my
m
X
i l.
/>* *
I
uXXuI
<sr
Eft
M
Ss
N
m
JJ
Renew Your Oil Cloth
YOU can easily bring dull looking oil cloth
back to the original brightness of pattern
which it had when new. You need only John-
son’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The result will
be a dry, dustless polish of great beauty and
durability.
In less than an hour you can polish the ordinary sized
floor, making it easy to keep clean, and it may be
walked upon immediately.
donsors
Prepared wax
Liquid and Paste
should be used in your home in polishing furni-
ture, woodwork and floors. For it protects and
preserves varnished finishes, covering up all
surface scratches. In one operation it cleans
and polishes.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
air
BS
s£Bo@G ll
''IW J^!»»
S-C.jOKNSOMiV
Sprinkled over any floor will
immediately give a perfect
dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to
supply you with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax and the
many other useful Johnson
products.
S. C. Johnson & Son
579 Kent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
‘•Rats'’: A possible explanation of the
housing shortage would appeal - to be that
dwellings are being used to augment the
food supply. Melbourne Herald the other
evening reported that a house had been con-
demned by the Fitzroy Council as ‘"unfit for
human consumption.”
“Static”: “Arthur R.'s” par. about the
talking scrap of wire on the fence (B.
22/4/ 20) recalls other freakish happenings
in the vicinity of high-power wireless sta-
tions. Morse signals from a water-faucet are
common, and I have heard of eccentric be-
havior on the part of near-bv incandescent
burners. In no case, however, have I traced
an intelligible signal.
“Wessel”: All the unemployed in the Ter-
ritory don’t wait for the Commonwealth to
hand out free steamer passages to some place
where they can hunt a job. Fourteen of
them took a motor-launch the other day and
started on a 300-mile run, through a sea
which can be very rough at this time of year,
to Wyndham < W.A.), where they reckon to
get work at the meatworks.
The Australian poultry-farmer is going to
have representation in Parliament at last, if
he wants it. A conference of rural-pro-
ducers’ associations, at which every sort of
soil-scratcher and stock-raiser is to be asked
to join up with the Farmers’ Union, will
shortly be held in Melbourne, and the hen
societies will be among those invited. As
all the big cities are well supplied with
fowl-runs, the owners of which will in many
cases be quite prepared to put their poultry
before mere considerations of Empire and
the like, support from this source may yet
help the Country Party to say cockadoodle-
doo on the Treasury benches.
Big Bill Hill, of the Country party, de-
manding to be told without further delay
exactly what the Government intends to do
about the wheat-pool arrangements for this
year, started a turmoil in the Reps, re-
cently. The Priminister was absent, suffer-
ing from a cold, and the discussion degen-
erated into a profitless squab! io, with Dicky
Foster confusedly yelling about "er-volun-
tary-compulsion,” and everybody offering
advice and loud laughter at the same time.
All the satisfaction Ilill got out of the up-
roar was the statement by Fleming M.H.B.
for Robertson, that “the Prime Minister
would no doubt hnve an adequate reply to
make to his critics.” Meantime the farmer
is still being vociferously urged, whether he
himself has the sniffles or no, to redouble his
producing efforts and keep the —ah —country
on a;—er —level keel. No wonder he is
mad when all lie gets out of his demands
for a fair thing is a sneeze from Hughes.
“Copabella”: Though Beeehworth. Dayles-
ford and one or two other places in
Victoria have done a little advertising,
to Geelong, erstwhile Sleepy Hollow,
belongs the credit of inaugurating a
systematic boosting scheme as a means
of drawing population, enterprise and
cash to the district. It has launched a
movement and a fund to send throughout the
State, and eventually the Commonwealth, a
small company of boosters—an advance-
agent, a publicity director and a cinema man
—at a cost of about £5O a week. Pictures
will be taken of Geelong working, playing,
learning, posing, thinking and sinning in the
mild form it affects, and these in conjunc-
tion with a good “talk” and an exhibition
of products—mostly manufactured —will be
sent, forth as a lure for the retiring cocky
seeking a burial-place, the manufacturer a
cheap works site, the worker a job, the
canoodler a nooky beach and the politician
an electorate. One Caffrey is the moving
spirit who goes afield, and Hitchcock, the
Hollow’s bustling Mayor, is the booster on
the hearth.
“Ajax”: Justice Poole, the newly-ap-
pointed Fourth Judge of the South Aus.
Supreme Court,, signalised his first appear-
ance as Judge in the Criminal Court by a
series of sentences which astonished a public
accustomed to the mild punishments of the
older Judges. In particular, one Kitlier, who
pleaded guilty to a charge of breaking out of
gaol, got two years with hard labor, the
first six months in irons ! The sentence has
led to an animated newspaper correspondence
full of references to “ferocious punishment,”
“relic of barbarism,” “outrage on justice” and
the like, and the men at the Islington Rail-
way Workshops at a mass meeting have
passed a resolution that Poole be removed
from the Bench. The outcry may be justi-
fied in this case, but apparently the public,
while resenting severe sentences, doesn’t mind
how. lenient a Judge is. The other day
Justice Gordon, of the same bench, had
to sentence a man who had been
found guilty of the manslaughter of
a returned soldier by felling him with an axe
when his back was turned. Gordon told
the prisoner that he was lucky the jury had
not found “Murder,” that it was a cowardly
crime, and ended up by giving him five years.
And no one seemed to think it necessary to
rush into print with criticisms of the sen-
t nee.
The trouble in Mexico boiled down :
The Carranza regime in Mexico has crumpled;
and this stands for another of the luckless Wilson’s
failures. About nine years ago the Yankee oil interests
financed Madero as a Presidential candidate against
the long-standing (perhaps too long-standing) Diaz,
because Madero promised to be more amenable in
the way of “concessions.” Diaz, very old and broken
but a great man still, retired, and Madero came in
with a smell of oil on him. A rude, faithful,
bulldoggy henchman of Diaz, General Huerta, ex-
tinguished Madero by violence and set up a new
order which didn’t grant oil concessions. Wilson
struck a pious attitude and jibbed. The U.S. wouldn’t
recognise Huerta because he was a man of blood.
But when Carranza—friendly to the oil interests
—and his most unsavory lieutenant Vila started a
gory insurrection, they received all the surreptitious
aid the U.S. could give. And when Carranza had
waded through blood and entrails to a throne his
recognition was enthusiastic. From first to last he
has been a weak figurehead, bobbing to and fro
amid a sea of anarchy, and of so little use to his only
paymasters that even they have wearied of him.
There are too many races in Mexico, and the white
party, unlike Carson’s Ulsterites or the English in
India, has no mother country to appeal to. Still,
the country had 35 years of comparative peace and
steady progress under the Diaz regime, till the oil
magnates from over the border became interested in
its affairs.


•J
HH
WMM
I
m
■
HH
■ -
m
m
11
m
.
Wm
K. /I
I
m?
:Wo',
,
I
rvy
/>,
n
s-1
wW
SI
\JI
4
S 3
2L
m
>,;• o'
£
V.--I
S x fr
II
\\\
VV jhidios
< T'wo Instruments in One
The Beale Player-Piano is no less a beauti-
ful piano because its usefulness is increased
by means of a player action.
On the one hand, a superb instrument for the techni-
cal musician. On the other hand, a perfect playing
technique for those who are musical but have no
manual dexterity.
The trained musician finds inspiration in classical mas-
terpieces which are too intricate for any except the
very proficient. With the player-piano he is able to for-
get technicalities in the joy of personal interpretation.
The untrained musician experiences all the pleasure
of music any time, for any length of time. His re-
pertoire is the world’s best, and he plays as his
mood dictates.
Regardless of whether you want a piano merely for
those members of your family who can play—or are
learning—consider the advantages which very little
extra expenditure will bring in the way of a player-
instrument.
Our little booklet "Advantages for Yourself” covers
many points of interest in Beale construction. Write
for a copy.
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the *Be ale
Showrooms:
333 George Street, Sydney.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale.
BRANCHES
New South Wales : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn,Wagga. Victoria : Maples in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John
Evans Ltd., Adelaide. West Australia: J. A. Thompson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE 6c COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


CUTICURA REALS
ERUPTIONS ON FACE
And Neck. Disfigured and
Very Itchy. Often Kept
Awake Till Morning.
“I was disfigured by blackheads and
eruptions about my face and neck. My
ƒ
skin was very red and the
blackheads appeared scat-
tered all over my face. They
were very itchy and I was
kept awake till morning. I
had suffered for over a year
with the disfigurement and
small blisters appeared
which I found was weeping eczema.
“I saw the Cuticura advertisement
and sent for a sample of Soapand Oint-
ment which afforded relief. I bought
more and I was healed.” (Signed)
Miss M. M. Roberts, 8 Charles St.,
Sandy Bay, Tas., Feb. 27, 1917.
For every purpose of the toilet Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are supreme.
Soaptodeanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
£L
CrJmeElcaya
ssts
Do You Look
As Young As
You Feel?
MAYBE because
you feel fine you
fail to notice as others
do the little lines
stealthily forming in
your face. Take care
of your skin now.
Try this simple formula —
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little Elcaya rouge Bprcad care
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of faoa
ponder over all."
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Eleaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/6.
All Brood Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Sydney.
he largest selling
tfualiiy pencil in
ihe wovlcl
ENUS
PENCILS
g
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
IfiMTH
FARM ENGINE
3 & 6
H. P.
Sizes
Have
Built-In Magneto
Throttling Governor
The 3-6 H. P. “ Z” engines are oil
engines built to operate efficiently on
KEROSENE
the most economical source of
power on the farm to run chum,
cream separator, grindstone, feed
cutter, corn sheller, to pump water,
saw wood and do other farm work.
Consider what these quality fea-
tures mean to the user.
Throttling Governor Make and break Ignition
Built-in Magneto Close Speed Regulation
Pump Fuel Feed Speed Regulator
Removable Bushings in bearings
' The 1% H. P. Z” engine operates on petrol; ha 9
built-in magneto, speed regulator and protected
fuel tank. It comes mounted on skids and is
easily jnoved from one machine to
another. “Z” engines are built in sizes
varying a from (petrol) to 15 H. P. i
Write for farther particulars. M
Fairbanks, Morse
& Co.
Manufacturers
CHICAGO, U. S. A.
k London Buenos Aires
b England Argentina
Dangar, Gf.dye & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney.
James Wardle & Co.,
Adelaide. ,
James Bartram & Sons,
Ltd., Melbourne.
Win cn combe, Carson,
Ltd., Brisbane.
Mai.loch Brothers, Perth.
Donai.d & Sons, Ltd.,
Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. Webster & Sons,
Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
Australians on Service Found
That There Is
NO BRANDY LIKE COGNAC BRANDY
and NO COGNAC
BRANDY LIKE
MARTELL’S
HUN
YALE-j)
Home
Protection
When the natural protec-
tor is absent a mechanical
contrivance must take his
place.
For real home protection a
Yale Cylinder Night Latch can
not be surpassed.
There is only one way to un-
lock a Yale Cylinder Night
Latch and that is with the key
that was made for it.
The pin-tumbler mechanism is
the secret of its security and
there is no case on record of a
burglar having ever picked one
under conditions of actual use.
With a Yale Cylinder Night Latch on
your door malicious intruders are
barred out.
You can make certain by seeing the
trademark “Yale” on the product you
buy. It’s on every Yale Night Latch,
Padlock, Door Closer, Bank Lock, Chain
Block or piece of Yale Builders’
Hardware.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
Established 1868
New York
U.S.A.
c'yalT)
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
f
Special features: —
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated'on long tan (22401b.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
K. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
“Murkah”: “Arthur R.,” mucking about
with a wire near Melbourne Radio Station
(B. 22/4/’2O), was playing with a force
that might hare rolled him across the road.
Instead of being radiated, a lot of the sta-
tion energy was being short-circuited into
the earth. He was lucky that he didn’t
create the condition that would have sent
this energy through his body for a track.
C. J. de Garis, the head and fount of the
wisdom that foams from the A.D.F.A. pub-
licity department, Mildura, has been deliv-
ered of a musical comedy which lias had a
private trial in Melbourne, and sounds as
if it possessed the cheery spirit of its father.
The little piece is full of neat patter and
nifty lyrics, and it is understood that among
the comedians is an effusive midget called
the Good Little Normey.
“Doxite”: Was chewing the cud of reflec-
tion for breakfast in the Spencer-street
(Melb.) railway yard one morning recently
when a good Samaritan directed me to the
dining-room on the premises run co-opera-
tively by the employees. I thanked him and
blew in. Although the hour was a neutral
one for meals, I received the utmost courtesy
and almost immediately an impromptu hot
meal was set before me. The auburn-haired
hash angel collected a mere 9d. in payment.
The railway men are now co-operating in
tea and boots, and the moving spirit is seek-
ing for further vital spots in 11.C.L.
“355 G”: My mate in the battalion used to
spend most of his time learning French, and
was always throwing clods of it at me. As
I knew nothing beyond “Vin blanc” and
“Merci, madame,” I had to take Bill on
trust. But he got a chance one night in
a “boozer” in Le Havre. When we went in
a Yank was “going a treat” at madame
about 10 francs he said she owed him. Soon
as New York saw us he grabbed us. “Say,
Aussie, can you talk this goldarned French?”
I turned to Bill and said, “Here’s where you
come on, Willie.” New York explained
what was up, and Bill assured him he could
talk the woman blind. This is how he went
about it. “Madame, vou.s parle Francais?”
“Ah, oui!” replied madame. Then Bill let
go. “Well, why in the name of blank and
dash don’t you give the Yank his change?”
Bitter complaints have been made in the
British House of Commons about the “un-
friendly” attitude of the U.S., which allows
loans to be raised for the Irish Republic or
“Republic”—the inverted commas make all
the difference. Also it was complained
that President (or “President”) de Valera
was entertained by the State Government of
Louisiana. Still, Britain built fighting ships
for the Confederates during Uncle Sam’s
unpleasantness ; it subscribed to Confederate
loans and lost the money ; it held discussions
as to whether the Confederacy should be re-
cognised ; and Australia has some hazy recol-
lection about entertaining Confederate naval
officers, or “pirates,” here, and being very
drunk over-night and a very bilious wreck in
the morning. Things being as broad as they
are long might be called about square.
“Norbell”: Remarks about the Duke of
Edinburgh spending some days at Chats-
worth, the noted house of squatter John
Moffatt in the Western District of Victoria,
recalls the frequent visits I paid there as
a boy in the late ’seventies, the decade follow-
ing the Duke’s visit. The royal bedroom
was still sacred ground. The bed had a
red velvet coverlet, with the royal arms in
gold, and at its foot was a red velvet couch,
similarly emblazoned, on which the Duke’s
favorite Towser slept. Many a time old
John showed me the narrow bridge spanning
a creek at the foot of a steep declivity across
which the royal visitor had been driven at
full gallop in a four-in-hand by a noted
Western District whip. I recall John
Moffatt as a kindly old man who always had
a pocketful of gingernuts for voracious small
boys. There was no royal bed for him ; a
martyr to asthma, he slept sitting up in an
armchair.
“Peter”: There is no end to Melbourne’s
experiments in the control of traffic. The
latest device is an electrical sign over the
intersection of Swanston and Collins streets
which swings its command of “Stop” in the
face of advancing vehicles and whistles
shrilly every time it moves. The sign is
under the command of a pointsman who
presses buttons on the lamp-post and stands
stolidly on a lump of wood to keep his feet
from getting cold. As he has to attend to
the buttons he cannot now prance after
drivers who disobey his warning, but can
only yell his sense of outrage as they skim
by. Also his infernal whistle is being mis-
taken for a similar sound manufactured by
the marquis in the tram signal-box a few
feet away. This haughty personage used
to tootle his charges over the crossing with
his. mouth, but now he works a mechanical
shriek with his hoofs. One way and another
the management of Melbourne’s traffic is
a marvel to the stranger. The confusion
that a couple of John Hops can achieve
without casualties in the dangerous T of
Elizabeth and Flinders streets before the
Central Station suggests that they had a
special training in chaos in a Federal Gov-
ernment Department.
“Roundsman” : Some of Ma’s new Minis-
ters are delighting the evening papers by
their free use of slang in official utterances.
It may be good policy, since it gets head-
lines like “A Fair Spin” from papers that
would otherwise give very poor advertise-
ment to the Ministerial utterances, or it
may be a mere popularity stunt; but, if
slang is to have an innings, why not go
the whole hog? Like this:—
Replying to Mr. George Fullerspite’s criticism, the
Minister for Loud Noises declared that it was
evidently an attempt to snavel the tabs’ brief at
the next box-on. The bloke who thought he could
get away with that with such eyewash was due to
come a regimental.
The Treasurer stated this morning that he in-
tended to give the Macquarie-street bug-walk the
dinkum oil about the layout of the national quids
next Tuesday.
Speaking at the opening of the Australian Grand-
mothers’ Convention the Secretary for National
Pastimes said that he intended to give the old birds
present the straight chat. If Australia as a nation
is to have a fair spin it is up to the tarts to do
the needful in the way of keeping the cradles filled.
That was the only thing that would enable them to
deal out stoush in the dials of- any future enemy.
It wouldn’t do any good to raise Cain when the red
light was showing.


Stopain Toothache Gam
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
I*
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting; on the
frantic, jumping nervej hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ rlnes what it savs ’ Horn Cure?
At last a real * does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and |
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out. i
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by i
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
LivEMR/ipn Pictures
BY.—-
Chamberlain's
Tablets -
'
CsjD
ro.
mm
m
When your stomach’s upset
Your meals do not digest—your
stomach feels over-loaded you
have heartburn and headaches—
When you bolch up gas and
undigested food —
Then is the time to start taking
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the
stomach and liver.
They are great for upset stomachs
and will soon put you right side
up again.
Thousands enjoy good health
because they were persuaded to take
Chamberlain’s Tablets when their
stomachs were weak and livers
disordered.
Get a bottle to-day. Let them
demonstrate their power to relieve
disorders of the stomach and liver.
Take them regularly until your
stomach is in order again. Then
take one occasionally io keep your-
self in good health. You can always
keep your stomach clean and healthy
by an occasional dose of
CtIAMEEELAINSIA6LEIS
■ IB
O IIIVER.
■ I
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
may be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-,
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
safeguard your health
ptJ.Colt!s Broiling
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOIt
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BItONCIiITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, IjS, 3/-, SJ-.
Hade in England.
ƒg
ƒ
Velvety Shaves with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
Kor many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, l/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
callfn&s
cnsland
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man b search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Namr .
Address.
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
Now on sale everywhere!
Messrs. Benger’s Food Ltd. are able to announce that
supplies of Benger’s Food should now be readily obtainable
throughout Australasia.
Should any consumer find difficulty in obtaining
Benger’s Food, communications addressed to the Sydney
office will receive prompt attention.
g
Food
is for INFANTS, INVALIDS and the AGED.
glaring 35 years' use by the Medical Profession, it has
fulfilled every claim made for it
Booklet and full particulars post free from:
B|NGER*s FOOD LTD. MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90, Beekman Street. Depots throughout CANADA.


A. Saunders’ Hunting Kit Bag, solid nickel fittings, canvas
lining: 18-inch, 55/-; 20-inch, 63/-; 22-inch, 70/-;
A.. Saunders’ Attache Writing Case, detachable
fitted with every convenience, £2/10/-
Others. £2, £3.
blotter,
:.'i f <
A. Saunders’ solid Oak Glove Box, solid Nickel Mounts,
12/6.
Useful Gifts.
A. Saunders' Cutlery Canteen, containing 3-piece Cawing
Set, 0 Table Knives, 0 Dessert Knives, 0 Table Forks, C
Dessert Forks, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, Xylonite Handles, finest-
quality hand-forged Sheffield Steel, 22/6.
Others, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Swan Fountain Pen, 14ct. gold, iridium-
pointed nib, plain, 147-
Two 9ct. Gold Bands, 22/6, 23/6, 25/-, 27/6.
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Solid Leather Suit-case, solid nickel fittings,
canvas-lined, cap corners. 20-inch, 72/6; 22-inch, 77/6;
24-inch, 84/-; 26-inch, 90/-
W-.
mm .<
~\ V!
Pi®!• %
■ - T - (
JL 'i i
!••' i: U-= )
• - •
A. Saunders’ Soldier’s or Tourist’s Canvas-fitted
Toilet Roll, all metal unbreakable fittings, 30/-
Smaller size, 21/-. Larger, 25/-, 35/-,
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, real Morocco Leather,
sterling Silver Mounts and Shields, 30/-
Others, 17/6, 20/-, 26/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
m
m
m
At 1
a.m
-*
"■*--■ ■uiciimmmm
.* * M
■
V % •.:
KHi
After the dance or theatre —when
you reach home late and tired—that
is just when “Milkmaid” Coffee &
Milk proves its worth.
In a moment you prepare delicious,
creamy coffee with “ Milkmaid ”
and hot water only! No delay; no
trouble. No sugar; no milk required.
Indoors or out-of-doors, “Milkmaid”
Coffee & Milk is the handy prepar-
ation at all hours. You need
“Milkmaid” in your home.
Milkmaid COFFEE & MILK
:A29
/ca.
Made by Nestle’s in Australia.


■ 1
K
'
I
p
1
ABBEY
SHOES
are not alone Stylish, High-grade and
Serviceable, but they are decidedly Com-
fortable.
They are made on our own lasts, in
the most exclusive models, and are Cor-
rect in Style, Perfect in Fit and Work-
manship.
The boot illustrated is a High-grade
Patent Oxford Bal., with Dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 65/-
All Patent ... 67/6
Tan 60/-
In half-sizes, narrow, medium and wide
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
WAR SHELL
VASES.
AVe are showing a num-
ber of the English famous
“Eighteen Pound” Artil-
lery Shells as flower vases.
They are some actually
fired in the Great War.
We have Gold lacquered
them, and they form
noble-looking flower vases.
Others are shown as Hall Gongs.
Apart from being permanent mementoes of
the great events of History, they are fine
pieces of metal, and will last for centuries.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
ƒ
Famous “Eighteen
Pound” Artillery
Shell Vase, 25/-
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 S 25 Hunter Street.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed . . .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. . . .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
George hotel.
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Nuroo’sLufra Hotel
Eaglehawk Neck, Tasmania.
Warns Tourists not to go to any 4 Govern-
ment Bureau for information of LUFRA.
I have no business connection with them,
nor do I accept their tickets for pay-
ment. NUROO’S LUFRA requires no tout.
Excellent Table, abundance of fish, poultry,
fruit and cream. LUFRA conveyance
leaves daily for Port Arthur. Tri-weekly
motor service from Bellerive, 12/-. S.S.
Cartels, Brooke Street Pier, 10/- Return.
Aa Ideal Hoaeymoon Resort.
C. NUROO, Proprietor.
’Phone No. 2.
Amusement*.
Harry Hickartls Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MclKiObll.
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND
SATURDAY AT 2.30.
HUGH D. MCINTOSH’S LATEST LIVELY REVUE
FROM LONDON.
ODDMENTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-I von
THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE VERY LATEST MUSICAL COMEDY SUCCESS,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Prices as usual.
HE It MA.IES T Y ’ 8. BVl> N K V
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 1.4 j.
THE BIG PANTOMIME
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY,
All that a Pantomime should be, and then a lot more.
Plans at Paling’s.
klt I T Elt I O N T II EA T It IS. SYI)N ICY.
9 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MatinCes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
GARTER THE GREAT
AND HIS MAGICAL COMPANY.
A LINK WITH THE OTHER WORLD.
Plans at Paling’s.
11 EAT R E ROY A L, BVI>N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their unique
combination of
DIGGER-PIERROTS.
THE KEYNOTE OF THE SHOW—LAUGHTER.
Plans at Puling’s.
J. & N. TAIT ATTRACTIONS.
PA LA C E THEA T R E. SYDN E Y.
NIGHTLY AT 7.45.
Matinfies AVednesdays and Saturdays.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT’S
Record-Breaking Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
“The best yet staged at the Palace.”
—D. Telegraph.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
The playhouse, sydn e y.
Next to Fire Station, Castlereagh Street.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
J. and N. TAIT’S ALL-DIGGERS CO.
MADEMOISELLE MIMI.
THE MOST NOVEL SHOAV IN SYDNEY.
Town h a 11.
S Y I) N E Y.
THURSDAY, MAY 20; SATURDAY, MAY 22;
TUESDAY, MAY 25.
J. and N. TAIT present the Greatest Pianist of
to-day,
MOISEIWITSCH,
the Russian Poet of the Piano.
“ONE OF THE GIANTS OF THE PIANO.”
N.Y. Evening Post.
Plana at Nicholson’s,
N i (> N I* 1 C T U It E T H IS A T It IS 8
u
THE PICK OF THE AVORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
I Eli MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 22.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present a musical
play de luxe,
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
rll EAT RE It OYA L. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
C. AVILLIAMSON LTD. present the last nights of
London’s Most Successful Comedy,
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
Plan at Allan’s, Prices as usual.
C INC.’S THEATRE. MELItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT-
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 22.
& N. TAIT present the fascinating English actress
EMELIE POLINI in
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL,
A Fascinating English Comedy Drama.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
a ItINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
;AILEY and GRANT present the great Love and
Laughter Australian Sunshine Play,
ON OUR SELECTION.
.11 the Rudd family come to town to greet the
Prince of Wales.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING, 8.15 to 10.45.
Admission 1/-. Single Dances, 6d.
Book of 14 Dance Tickets, 3/6.
Reserved Tables, 2/6 extra.
Amusements.
THE PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
• Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT present the greatest of all Digger
Shows,
THE SMART SET DIGGERS,
in a musical barrage,
THE DIGGERS’ DREAM OF LONDON AND PARIS.
Prices: 5/-, i/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Town hall, melbqurn k.
Direction CHAPPELL.
ENGLAND’S LEADING VOCALISTS.
AMY EVANS, Soprano,
and
FRASER GANGE, Basso-cantante.
MELBOURNE SEASON OPENS JUNE 8.
SYDNEY SEASON OPENS JUNE 29.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
DOROTHY GISII in
NUGGETT NELL.
WILLIAM RUSSELL in
LINCOLN HIGHWAYMAN.
Prices as usual.
gy|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE BRADY in
HIS BRIDAL NIGHT.
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
fSKITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE, 1
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Missing Friends.
Thomas Charles heithersay, !
(late of Peterborough, South Austra-
a), last heard of at Broken Hill about
tine months ago. The Executor of the
vill of the late Samuel Heithersay, of Peter-
borough (S.A.), is desirous of winding up
the estate, and would like to hear from or of j
the above before doing so. Please communi- '
•ate with
GEO. PHILP, Peterborough, S.A.
E MISS HARRIET GIBBS, of Strat-
ford on Avon, Warwickshire, Eng-
land, deceased. The names and present
addresses are required of the children of the
late .TOIIN GIBBS, brother of the above-
named Harriet Gibbs. Send particulars to
Wilkins and Toy, Chipping Norton, England,
Solicitors to the Executors of the Will of
Harriet Gibbs. _
NEWS wanted of ADAM, JOSEPH and ANDREW
PATTERSON, or children of above. Emigrated
about 60 years aex> from Armagh, North Ireland,
to Adelaide and Williamstown. Last-known address,
Shea Oak Log, Adelaide, S. Australia. Any news
gratefully received by widow of John (brother of
above) and children.
Mrs. MSARY PATTERSON, 61 Henslowe Road,
East Dulwich, London, S.E., 22.
LLEN, GEORGE, formerly proprietor
of a wine cafe in Lygon street, Carl-
ton, Victoria, please communicate with
Equity Trustees Co., Ltd., 85 Queen Street,
Melbourne. _
WILSON. —Will anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the undermentioned
kindly communicate to “Los Angeles,” Box
2521 G.P.0., Sydney. Hugh and Lillie
Wilson, or their three daughters Violet,
Ruby and Lillie.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN CHARLES BROUGHTON
husband of Clara Bruton formerly
Clara Broughton deceased and at one time of
the City of Christchurch in New Zealand
and all persons claiming by through or under
him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
30th day of April, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 30th day of Sep-
tember. 1920. your claim to the estate of
Clara Bruton formerly Clara Broughton who
died intestate at the City of Christchurch in
New Zealand on the 21st day of November,
1918. failing which the estate will be distri-
buted among those entitled thereto disregard-
ing your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
April, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
g
“INVINCIBLE”
Marine Engines.
(Made in Australia since 1906.)
1\ to 120 B.H.P. All fuels.
Prompt Deliveries. Write for catalogs.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
35 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“SUNRAYSIA DAILY” Wants Stories.
Ocnratsia Daily, the new daily newspaper to be established at Mildura, the capital of Sun-
Sravsia (the “Sunraysed” irrigation districts of New South 'Wales, South Australia and Victoria),
invites contributions of Australian verse, stories, nature notes and smartly-written personal and
BlSrs iM 1 sags
#2. h " e in *
Jlichart
et* 1
EXCLUSIVE STYLES 8 PATTERNS
LADIES' 8 GENTS.’ COATS.
From the Leading English Makers.
BURBERRY, AQI ABCI TUM. DEXTER.
ALSO
Special Line Black l>ress Overcoats.
£«/«/-
&CO,
1314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY, j
Government Notices.
ORDER NO. 4.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Sheepskins)
Regulations.
Sheepskins to be made Available for
Appraisement.
T WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
I' the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Sheepskins) Regulations
(Commercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the re-
commendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
(«) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of dry sheepskins of the
value of £5O or over which has or have not
been appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins for appraisement; and
(5) require every person firm and company at
any time after the date of this notice and
before the 30th day of June, 1920, holding
or having under his or its control any stock
or stocks of dry sheepskins of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available within 14 days from the
date on which such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins is or are first held or had under
his or its control, such stock or stocks of
dry sheepskins for appraisement.
And I declare that this Order does not apply to
sheepskins purchased or held bona fide by a fell-
monger for fellmongering in Australia to a quantity
not exceeding normal supplies for his fellmongering
plant, provided a return of the quantity so held
is furnished to the Central Wool Committee on or
before the 28th day of April, 1920, or within such
fourteen days as aforesaid, as the case may be.
Dated the ninth day of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Wool) Regulations.
Wool to be made Available for
Appraisement.
t WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
1, the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of’ the War Precautions (Wool) Regulations (Com-
mercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the recom-
mendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
(a) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of wool of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of
wool for appraisement; and
(5) require every person, firm and company at any
time after the date of this notice and before
the 30th day of June, 1920, holding or hav-
ing under his or . its control any stock o)
stocks of wool of the value of £5O or over
which has or have not been appraised under
the said Regulations to make available
within fourteen days from the date on which
such stock or stocks of wool is or are first
held or had under his or its control, such
stock or stocks of wool for appraisement.
Dated the ninth day of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
Missing Friends.
STEPHEN MOVE AN.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts or
fate of above will greatly oblige by
communicating with his brother.
J. W. MOYLAN.
No. 5 McArthur Street, Ballarat (Vic.).


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUBTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, G’ULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
v T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
ft#
&
300 RD Sl 3ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
L Swift & Company Australasian Ajrents, 26/30 Clarence St., S.vctneyJ*
to
DT
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than the shillings you are
asked to pay. It is genuinely
welted—all “EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-day.
47/6 pair.
“EMBASSY” Shoes are
the Standard.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville.
LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SVDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hue Majesty's “The Sleeping Beauty”
Criterion Carter the Great
Royali Digger-Pierrots
Palacz “Mother Hubbard”
Trvou “Oddments"
The Playhouse "Mademoiselle Mirni”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Town Hall Moiseiwitsch
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .... “The Bing Boys on Broadway”
Royal “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
Kino’s “The Little Damozel”
Princess’s “On Our Selection”
Tivoli “His Little Widows”
The Playhouse The Smart Set Diggers
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
■*>
The success of the Beethoven week at
Melbourne Town Hall shows the possibili-
ties of orchestral music with a well-
advertised personality in charge of the band.
Verbrugghen is by no means the world’s
greatest conductor, but ardent boosting,
combined with his theatricality, has created
in the minds of his adorers an illusion of
his magic in the management of sound. At
every performance last week he had hun-
dreds wild with enthusiasm, and won a
triumph which plainly intimated that all the
wonders of the so-called Festival were due
to Wis superb interpretations. Yet he
wrecked no traditions in the handling of his
orchestra, and only in the final of the
Seventh Symphony on Friday dared any
noticeabre departure from the score. Prob-
ably his best work was demonstrated in this
particular passage, but his knowledge of his
subject ami his control of his forces enabled
him to produce many technically pleasing
readings elsewhere. The tricky variations
and pauses in the last lap of the No. 3
(Eroica) Symphony on Tuesday were strong
tests of his conductor’s ability, and without
revealing inspiring leadership he took his
band through without a casualty. On
Saturday came the big programme, with a
matinge of the Ninth Choral Symphony and
an evening dedicated to the great Masß in
D. A choir of 125 joined in the last move-
ment of the Symphony, and nearly exhausted
Verbrugghen’s gajllery of gestures. The re-
maining Symphonies were distributed over
the earlier concerts, and the most popularly
appealing were the Pastoral (No. 6) on
Thursday and the cheerful No. 8 on the
following evening. The latter was supposed
to represent a lusty outburst of Beefovenish
humor, but while iits noisiest gaieties suggest
a mastodons’ jazz party, it has some pretty,
restful moments. The Pastoral is more in
the nature of a weather report, and the
orchestra recorded every change in the
barometer, bringing in the brasses and drums
for a striking pictu re of the storm towards
the conclusion. Among the various Con-
certos the triple for: piano, violin and ’cello
which were played
by Henry Penn,
Miss Cullen and
James Messeas on
Saturday were
more likeable than
the two Concertos
for the piano and
orchestra when
Laurence Smith
and Miss Meggy
played the piano.
F rank Hutchens
did his bit well in
the C Minor com-
position with the
same instrument on
Friday. V e r-
brugghen worried a
.fiddle in the Violin
Concerto in D
(Alfred Hill con-
ducting), but plea-
sure in the music
was somewhat
marred by the dis-
tracting aspect of
his posturing when
unemployed. The
Rondino Octet for
Wind on Thursday
was very good, and
Saturday’s soloists
—M rs. Ver-
brugghen, Miss
Huxtable, George
“The Smart Set Dig-
gers,” at Melbourne
Playhouse.
Rob Roberts as
Naneene, the maid in
the burlesque
“Camille.”
English and R.
Romani —sang all that was required without
mishap.
t- * £ *
Much of the poetry of Borwick, something
of Paderewski and the strength of Bauer,
and nothing of Hambourg—that is Sydney’s
summing up of the art of Benno Moisei-
witsch; and since Saturday Sydney has
placed the name high among those of the
good pianists it has heard. His is the
music of the poet. He is incarnate the spirit
of some Greek shepherd god who passed his
life pouring out the good, green-earth music
to his Elysian flocks. So mystical and deli-
cate a theme he made of his opening number,
the Bach prelude in C, that he caught his
audience off guard, and it turned again to
its programme to see if it had read aright.
To the Beethoven of the Apassionata some-
thing that was the spiritual flame of Moisei-
witsch ‘ was added, which glowed deeper and
deeper till in the last electrifying movement
it was flung, a blood-red ruby, at the listeners’
feet But it was the fantasy Moiseiwitsch
played into Schumann’s Carnival that made
it the most unforgettable of that first evening.
Of the fairy food that forms the Carnival
perhaps Reconnaissance and Papillons were
the most fascinating. Stravinsky .and
Scriabine’s Nocturne for left hand alone
awoke the keenest interest in the latter part
of the programme; though it was the Chopin
Ballade in A Flat swelling from the deep
tenderness to the full blaze of the white,
earth-free Moiseiwitsch passion, in which the
player reached the heart of his enthusiastic
audience.
*$ $ *
‘‘The Sleeping Beauty” panto, is now keep-
ing large audiences awake at Sydney
Majesty’s. The fact that the Scotchbyterian
General Assembly is also doing good business
hasn’t affected trade at the J.C.W. house.
*# * *
“Oddments” is paying the rent at Sydney
Tivoli. But most punters agree that it gets
away badly when the barrier flies up.
** * *
Carter the magician opened at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday night. He is a front-
rank conjurer and an illusionist with an
elaborate stock of devices for pulling the mul-
titude’s leg; added to which he possesses a
restful voice and a pleasant personality.
Most of his tricks have been done before:
but none have been done with more speed
and finish. The star feature of the evening
is the sudden evanishment, in a pillar of
smoke, of a large lion, and the appearance
in its cage of the magician. The animal
seemed to be haunted throughout the turn
by a foreboding of the abrupt boost from
behind, or whatever the agency may be which
produces its lightning withdrawal from the
public eye; and its indication was tre-
mendous. The episode would have been more
alluring had Carter been able to conjure
away the forest monarch’s terrific odor; but
there are limits to the magic art. While
the chief performer is having a well-earned
spell Miss Evelyn Maxwell gives an exhi-
bition of thought transference on the lines
conventionalised in Sydney by Mrs. Foster-
Turner. She makes more play with the
emotional aspect of the business than Syd-
ney’s stout and stolid old friend, but gets
no more astonishing results.
* # * *
“Mother Hubbard” has a lot of honorary
advertisers advising their Sydney friends to
go along and see the Palace show. This
counts more than the combined roars of seven
press agents.
The J.C.W. Digger-Pierrots are still burn-
ing electricity at Sydney Royal and paying
for it, thanks to the many people with
a kindly feeling for all entertainers who have
worn khaki.
* * * *
_On Saturday night “Mademoiselle Mimi”
kicks her last at the Playhouse after enter-
taining Sydney for eight weeks.
The only Australian thing about “The
Shadow of Lightning Ridge” is the setting.
The scenery is dinkum, but the story itself is
a mixture of old melodrama and Wild West
movie. Australia wants Australian films, and
in spite of “Snowy” Baker’s great athletic
business, she will refuse to swallow “The
Shadow” as the thing her soul cries for.
Leading-woman Brownie Vernon, also being
American, adds nothing Australian to the
picture. But the photography is excellent.
Sydney Lyceum and Lyric show the picture.
On the Lyceum sheet, in addition, Alice
Joyce gets rid of two convictions for man-
slaughter, and is given a chance to try polish-
ing off a third husband by old Sydneysider
Percy Marmont. Cosmo Hamilton’s “Men,
Women and Money” supplies Ethel Clayton
with a chance to clothe what the old hymn
calls this outer shell of sin in some beautiful
garments. Her name being Marcel and her
bank-account nil, you may expect the worst
—and be disappointed. Constance Talmadge
drinks in “The Lesson” and an ice-cream
soda at the Crystal Palace, thereby freezing
her true admirer and marrying the wrong
man; but only for long enough to allow the
true admirer to become affluent. Then it’s a
case of ring off and ring on again. At the
Globe and Haymarket Fatty Arbuckle saves
his Molly Malone from a fiery death in “The
Garage,” and at the Strand Sessue Haya-
kawa is “The Courageous Coward.”
S= #* * *
“On Our Selection,” revived at Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday, gives the crowd a
chance to say that Ned Duggan’s Dad.
though a fine study, is not so funny as
Bailey’s, because Duggan’s Dad’s temper is
less fiery, and violent movement is barred
by Ned’s palatial figure. Leslie Gordon
endeavors to reproduce the Outback drawl
of Fred Macdonald’s Dave, but the voice is
too languid and ought to be fined for loiter-
ing. Tom Cannam tootles shrilly as
Maloney, and J. B. Fowler gives further
cause for sand-papering Billy Bearup’s in-
tonation. Stanley Henry, as Sandy, pairs
off with Kate (Rosa Duggan), and shouts
his virtuous sentiments into the face of old
Carey, now promoted to the Dreadnought
class by the noble physique of Lou Lawrence.
Come to think of it, all the present com-
pany look pretty well nourished. Mum
(Florence Marshall) is a comfortable old
body, and Yetty Landau, as Sarah, can look
forward to the time when she will be a
brougham. Practically Emma Smith is the
only midget in the company, and she is
cubits short of the stature formerly given
to Lily White by the tall and comely Lilias
Adeson.
* * * *
The Smart Set Diggers, presented by the
Taits at Melbourne Playhouse on Saturday,
are rather overloaded with female imper-
sonators and are not specially strong in
comedians, but they give a bright show that
commits no plagiarism or unpleasantness dur-
ing its three-hours run. The most artistic
of the crowd is Charles Holt, who wraps
himself in negligible feminine frillies. His
impersonation of Trilby and Camille are capi-
“Oddments,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Minnie Love as Mrs.
’Arris in “The Man
Who Came Back."
tal, and he catches
some of the tricks
of personality in
his imitations of
Vesta Tilley and
Marie Lloyd.
Grotesque char-
acter work is
undertaken by a
party named Whit-
low, whose pic-i
ture of a female
domestic was de-
signed by a
Scawtch Futurist
after a nicht wi’
Burns; but his
idea of a young
blood about town
is a return to
normal without a
redeeming eccen-
tricity. George
Castles and Jock
Thomson are the
serious singers in
the group, and
combine effectively
in a duet from
“Bohfeme.” Bobby
Roberts, “T ik i”
Carpenter and a
couple more are in
petticoats, but
with the exception
o f “Tiki,” who
makes a charming
flapper, the others’
square shoulders
and diverting falsettos bash all their
pretensions to femininity. Richard Butler
and Roy Capps are occasionally pro-
minent in song and patter, Ernest
Crosby supplies passable Digger comedy, and
Torzillo twangs the harp in some nifty varia-
tions of “Home, Sweet Home.”
In the Melbourne show world the end of
many things is at hand. At the King’s the
shrill small voice of Tiger Rose will be
heard for the last time to-night (Thursday)
and to-morrow the thunderstorm will be
travelling by rail. Emelie Polini returns
on Saturday in “The Little Damozel,” and
several old friends are returning with her.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the long day of
“Kissing Time” closes on Friday, after which
come “The Bing Boys on Broadway.” The
costly brethren begin their binging on Satur-
day.
# & ?;« s’:
At Melbourne Royal the nights of “Tilly
of Bloomsbury” are numbered to Friday of
next week. Meanwhile Tilly continues to
fight hard for her boy, with the assistance of
the raucous broker’s man. Also good old
father Abel still assures his wife that he is
looking for his hat when he is really seeking
an opportunity to chuck Tilly under the chin.
Sfc 3j:' . 8j! $
Dolores will re-appear at Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday for the purpose of be-
ginning to say farewell. The' songstress,
who stands by herself in Melbourne’s regard,
announces five absolute good-bye recitals, with
a break in the series. Her second appearance
will be on Tuesday next, and then she waits
for the first week in June, when three more
dates are booked.
£* * *
“His Little Widows” is keeping the
Mclntosh treasurer merry and bright at
Melbourne Tivoli. The musical chink,
chink in the pay-box at the beginning of the
season has now grown to the volume of an
oratorio.
** $ *
Melbourne Majestic’s present star is
Sessue Hayakawa in “The Dragon Painter.”
Though the theme deals with a mystic per-
sonal ideal and is full of dark Japanese
passion, Sessue gets through with minor
facial disturbances. There is livelier acting
by Doris Kenyon
in “The Band
Box,” and the plot,
neatly adapted from
a yarn by Louis
Joseph Vance,
prods the picture-
fancier with some
cleverly arranged
thrills. At Hoyt’s
headquarters,
Bourke-street, ‘‘The
Lincoln Highway-
man” is the pick
of the wee k’s
starters. William
Bussell flourishes
in this as a motor
bandit who shatters
all known records
in scooting about
after lone million-
aires. At the same
theatre Dorothy
Gish scoffs at the
m e 1 o d r amatic
prairie film in a
humorous burlesque
called “Nuggett
Nell.” Hoyt’s Ly-
ceum expects an
overcrowded cash-
“The Smart Set Dig-
gers,” at Melbourne
Playhouse.
Ernest Crosby in a
military episode,
“My Word."
box from the doings of Owen Moore as
“Piccadilly Jim.”
# * *
At Adelaide the Peace Exhibition runs
day and night, and has a host of competi-
tions and side-shows. The new Dance
Palace (under Wondergraph Co. direction)
has its regular evenings and its frequent
“carnivals.” Ross and Keith Smith have
duplicate sets of the pictures of their flight;
Keith lectures in the country, whilst Ross
appears twice or thrice evex-y day at West’s
—all the State schools are being taken.
Both brothers speak (or read) well —fortu-
nately, as evex-ybody has to gp. Concerts,
too, are everywhere; Edward Goll has bent
his grey locks' 1 and inspii-ed fingei-s over the
piano, and Paul Howard is giving a whole
series of recitals.
sj: $
Duggan assumed a Scotch accent for the
end of his season at Adelaide Tivoli, and
presented Duncan McClure, with the im-
probable Bush churchgoers who did their
best to starve their Poor Parson. Emelie
Polini, at the Royal, gives a fine exhibition
of plain and fancy lying in “Kindling.”
Untruthfulness on the part of hero or
heroine is supposed to belong to comedy
solely, but here it goes with a gloomy
three-act anticipation of approaching
maternity. H. R. Roberts is the well-
meaning husband, and Maggie Moore gets
a great reception in her large share of
comic relief. A revival of “Eyes of Youth”
is to end #he season. The Majestic has a
good mixed variety bill, in which nothing
goes better than the turn of the tuneful Dig-
gers Laurie and Rossie. Pictui'es deal
largely in stoush—Snowy Baker as the Man
from Kangaroo at the Pav., and at Wonder-
graph Conrad’s fierce island story, “Victory.”
The Rickards Tivoli Co. has brought
from London a new comedy co., managed
by Robert Courtneidge, and headed by
George Tully and Margaret Swallow. Hugh
McIntosh met them at Adelaide, where the
season opens, and gave a Grand Central
dinner to some 50 citizens.
Dorothy Helmrich had an encouraging
opening for her London season at the Cen-
tral Hall, Westminster. She appeared with
John Coates, who was here with the Quinlan
Opera Co., and was specially congratulated
afterwards by Princess Marie Louise and
Edward Goschen, two excellent judges of a
musician. Dorothy is living with the Wil-
liam Coopers, who are even more interested
in music than they are in racing. “Gerry”
Cooper, the millionaire-baronet’s only son.
is talking of visiting Australia with a con-
cert company next year.
“D Minjr”: Even people accustomed to
the affectations of musical geniuses must
have opened their eyes at the absurd swank
of Henri Verbrugghen at Melbourne Town
Hall last week. Admitting that he had
considerable_ excuse for his Sousa-like ges-
tures when conducting his orchestra, his
behavior during his fiddle concerto was com-
pletely ridiculous, and was the more laugh-
able because it was solemnly accepted by
idolaters as necessary to the occasion. Gaz-
ing majestically into space when out of play,
and with one arm bent behind him while
the other held his instrument portentously
on his chest, he might have conveyed to
some an air of Napoleonic majesty, but with
his carefully-tended locks and spiky mous-
taches he reminded others more of a haughty
hairdresser. The whole business was quite
uncalled for, inasmuch as there was nothing
in his subsequent music to justify his pose.


“PAY LESS TO DRESS BETTER.”
Outwear two ordinary
pairs by wearing one pair
of Murdoch’s “Armourite”
Boots at 346 pair.
If you are “hard” on boots test the economy
and comfort of MURDOCH’S “ARMOURITE”
BOOTS. The soles are taaned by the secret
“Armourite” process which toughens the leather
and gives twice the wearing service. You’ll
find there’s honest wear in every pair!
In Black Wallaby 34/6
In Tan Willow Hide 34/6
In Black Box Calf 35/6,
In Tan Willow Calf 42/-
All sizes Derby shape (as illustrated), with or
without toecap.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
When ordering by post write to DESK R, and
mention size required.
MURDOCH’S
in Park St. Ltd., Sydney,
“Where the Good Hats Are.”
WRITE FOR A COPY OF MUR-
DOCH’S NEW AUTUMN-WINTER
CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
In Black
or Tan,
34/6
f
KMNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
BRITISH-MADE
KMNCH
DOLJBLE = SIDED
FROM
4|6
EACH
Records
4\o
EACH.
COLUMBIA RECORDS by
DOROTHY BRUNTON and PAUL DOFAULT.
Dark Blue Label—l2-inch DOUBLE-SIDED, 6/6 each.
[ Barcarolle, from “Tales of Hoffmann” (Offenbach)
i Dorothy Brunton and Paul Dufault
[Keep me in your heart (Till I come Home again) (MacCunn).
Dorothy Brunton, Soprano
772 ' The Bubble - fronl “High Jinks” (Freeman) ... Dorothy Brunton, Soprano
(Dove’s own Kiss, from “High Jinks” (Freeman) .. Dorothy Brunton, Soprano
773 J 1,1 Monter «y (Moret) Dorothy Brunton, Soprano
( Down among the Sheltering Palms (Olman) Dorothy Brunton, Soprano
) God Send You Back to Me (Adams) Dorothy Brunton, Soprano
( Rose of my Heart (Lohr) Dorothy Brunton and Paul Dufault
« 75 j Where’er you Walk, from “Semele” (Handel) Paul Dufault, Tenor
( How Many Hired Servants, from “The Prodigal Son” (Sullivan)
Paul Dufault, Tenor
Dark Blue Label—lo-inch DOUBLE-SIDED, 6/6 each.
2wi ft 1 14 was a Bover and bis Dass (Walthew) .. Dorothy Brunton and Paul Dufault
l Nearest and Dearest (Caracclolo) Dorothy Brunton and Paul Dufault
2oio i you w °uld love me (MacDermid) Paul Dufault, Tenor
i A Spirit Plower (Campbell-Tipton) Paul Dufault, Tenor
All with Orchestral Accompaniment.
COLUMBIA RECORDS of
DAISY KENNEDY, Australia’s Famous Violinist.
Light Blue Label—l2-inch DOUBLE-SIDED, 8/6 each.
D 1335. —Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso. In Two Parts (Saint Saens, Op. 28),
Violin Solos by Daisy Kennedy with Orchestra conducted by Hamilton Ilarty.
H 1336.—Sonata in G: (a) Allegretto tranauillo; (b) Allegro animato (Greig).
Daisy Kennedy (Violin) and Hamilton Harty (Piano).
!L 1337.—3rd Sonata in D Minor—Adagio (Brahms) ; Scherzo in C Minor (Brahms).
Daisy Kennedy (Violin) and Hamilton Harty (Piano).
1.1338. — Sonata in A Minor (Schumann, Op. 105); Part 1, Molto Appassionato;
Part 2, Allegretto.
Daisy Kennedy (Violin) and Hamilton Harty (Piano).
Jj 1339.— Part 3, Vivace Mazourka (Zarzycki, Op. 20).
Daisy Kennedy (Violin) and Hamilton Harty (Piano).
1, 1340. — Romance in G, in Two Parts (Beethoven).
Violin Solos by Daisy Kennedy, with Orch. conducted by Hamilton Harty.
Light Blue Label —10-inch DOUBLE-SIDED, 6/-
D 1412.— Waltz, Scherzo (S. Rosenbloom); Hornpipe (A. Mistowski).
Violin Solos by Daisy Kennedy.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Baking House, Bawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—3Iessrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 343 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
be
obtained.
ror
. . av-
Black r m JOS
Listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
tSteel
Casting's
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.— “HEAT-
TREATED.”—For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY BTREET, BRISBANE.


Cocoanut Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautions
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonfuls make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all. this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated.” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper stickv. emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oii, as recommended above.
Use Fing'ers to Lift Off Corns!
ƒg
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns—soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes.—
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is named
Frozol-Ice, and is a
substance of et]ier dis-
covered by a scholarly
chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice. cost-
ing but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to the heart
of any tender, pain-throbbing corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn, “lock
stock and barrel.” loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
Frozol-Ice, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous.
Only fancy! No pain ! No soreness !
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice. nor
afterwards. Make a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have com freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
If Favorite Foods
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods you like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or soda water after
every meal. Instead just make a practice of
taking-a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after eating.
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not
a laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diges-
tion. It can be obtained at any well-stocked
chemist’s shop (in powder or compressed tab-
lets form). fee sure to get Salix Magnesia Do
not use other forms of magnesia for this
purpose.
POVERTY
POINT
T[?]T & Chandon
DRY IMPERIÀL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
Roy Cushing is the latest Australian
actor to depart for Yankeeland. A soldier in
the A.1.F., he returned home by way of
America, where he found no difficulty in
securing engagements in the film business.
He goes back now with a three years’ con-
tract.
“Norbell”: George Rignold finished his
Westralian tour with “Confusion” at Fre-
mantle. and the Cintra was kept back till
after the show to take the co. east. About
midnight all hands were safely aboard,
and George and his manager Sammy Marks
were having a nightcap with Captain
Savage. Just as the for’ard spring was let
go a bum-baliff appeared and “attached”
Rignold for debt. Anyone owing over £5
was then liable to arrest if he attempted to
leave W.A., and a discharged and sozzled
mummer had thus “got even” with G.R. Cap-
tain Savage held up the boat while Rignold.
Marks and the baliff dashed up in a han-
som to magistrate Fairbairn’s house and
knocked him up. The P.M., in his pyjamas,
held an informal court, but decided that
nothing could be done till the morning. Just
then Marks had a brain wave, and pointed
out that the warrant read “in the reign of
Queen Victoria,” who was then dead. Fair-
bairn upheld the objection, and directed the
bum to get his warrant amended to the reign
of King Edward. The bailiff went back to
Perth for further instructions, and Captain
Savage put to sea, with George Rex safely
aboard the lugger.
Randolph Bedford breaks into Stageland
again with “The Boss Cockie,” the first pro-
duction of a new Sydney co. called Austra-
lian Plays, Ltd., which has also acquired
three other Bedford plays—“Dandenong
Smith,” “Pearl of Torres,” and “Flag of the
Stars.”
“N.”: The Dickens Society was responsible
for the last public appearance of George
Titheradge. I was secretary, and when some-
“Oddments,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
George Gee and Billy
Elliott in a burlesque
dance.
one suggested that
a memorial to Ed-
ward Bulwer Lyt-
ton Dickens, buried
in Moree cemetery,
be erected there, I
was ask ed to
arrange a show to
provide funds. My
request that the
old actor should
assist met with a
gallant acceptance.
His choice, a read-
ing from “A Tale
of Two Cities,”
was not popular:
the custom of many
alleged teachers of
elocution had staled
it badly. The con-
cert fell on May
28, 1914: the read-
ing ended the first
half. It was an
unforgettable per-
formance. With his
hpnds closed over
a copy of the
“Tale” which he
never once referred
to, the actor quietly
but vdbrantly re-
cited the chapter
that describes Car-
ton’s tragic end.
Without a gesture,
but with an arrest-
ing play of fea-
ture, while his fine
voice declaimed the
best of Dickens’s
prose, he moved a
big audience profoundly. Remembering many
other fine stage appearances, I recall nothing
better than that.
“French Horn”: An Australian orchestra,
financed by moneyed men with music in their
souls, is at the back of Verbrugghen’s mind;
and his present visit to Melbourne, following
on his previous tours, is designed to show
that all the States could get proper attention
from such a body. Verbrugghen doesn’t
want to leave Australia. Put him in a
position where he could make a triumphal
progress of Australia once a year, and he
will have more happiness than any American
city can offer him.
By a wandering showman: —
In the U.K. most 6ongs are written for the
exclusive use of a music-hall artist. If that person
happens to be playing in London, those living in the
provinces will not have the pleasure of hearing
it until the artist makes a visit to the local hall.
It is copyrighted, and no other professional is
allowed to sing it. The writer of the song gets a
few pounds, and what else' there is in sales goes
to the publishers. In some cases they let the songs
out to the various pantomimes, and this popularises
them. In the U.S. things are different. If the pub-
lishers think they have a success they engage song-
pluggers. A plugger is one who is paid by the pub-
lishers to advertise a song by singing it in a cabaret,
vaudeville or burlesque show, or (best of all) in a
five- or ten-cent store. Woolworth’s and Kresge’s
stores sell millions of copies of music per year,
and music-publishers bid high for the right to send
a singer to sing a new song—perhaps a dozen times
an hour.
Further, to push sales, any singer wanting to
use the song has but to go to the “professional
manager” at the publisher’s, and the song will be
“AS IT WAS IN THE BEGINNING .”
YOUNG CRITIC : “The theatres must he very
different now to what they were in your
youthful days."
OLD CRITIC : “Everything entirely different,
my boy—except the gags."
taught to him. It would surprise an audience to
know how many artists do not read music. My
experience in America was that the professional
manager is generally responsible for the songs that
all but a few great artists sing. I have heard
quite well-known performers struggling to get the
tune after the melody has been played a couple
of dozen times. The parts are transposed for the
artists, and written for duet, trio, quartette and
octette, for the big publisher has a man specially
to do that. It is thus that the same song is sung
by different artists at many simultaneous shows. The
“life” of a song is thereby lessened, but the sales
are enormous.
A successful songwriter in America makes half
as much out of one song as all the “big” writers
in England put together do in a year. George
M. Cohan made £20,000 out of his “Over There.”
“T.D.M.”: “Dicky” Richards, Sydney’s
recently-deceased Mayor, in his young days
was an amateur actor, and his fondness for
Shakspeare (B. 13/5/’2O) was begotten of
that. He was wonderfully sound in the
text, too. He made a fine speech at the
banquet in the Town Hall to Hugh J.
Ward—at which, I believe, G. S. Titheradge
made his last public utterance of import-
ance—beginning with an apt quotation from
the Bard and hanging some equally apt
remarks on it.
“Old Pot”: Melba would not have Ger-
trude Johnston (B. 13/5/’2O) at Albert-
street. Well, it may be some satisfaction to
Gertrude to know that Arthur Sullivan
would not stand Melba for the Savoy, con-
sidering that her voice was not good enough.
Within a couple of years Melba had Europe
at her feet, and never tired of chaffing Sulli-
van about the value of his judgment. But I
don’t think the Dame would take it so
blithely as the Knight did.
“T.P.”: “M.P.A.” (B. 6/5/’2O), concern-
ing Flora Graupner, reminds me of her com-
mencement in the early ’eighties in Mrs. G.
B. W. Lewis’s juvenile opera co., ‘Tina-
fore,” at Melbourne Bijou. “Baby Flora,”
the cleverest infant, broke her arm, and
Mrs. G. B. W., who even then was no fairy,
played the part till the tiny singer reap-
peared with arm still in splints.
“Old London”: Some of the recent Ameri-
can grand opera importations cost a good
deal more than they were worth. Better
artists coufd be brought from England for
half the money. Ten or twelve pounds a week
is the average salary in such cos. as the Carl
Rosa, with £25 or £3O a week representing
high-water mark, and few of Sir Thomas
Beeeham’s principals exceed that figure. Of
course, contracts cover practically the whole
12 months, and the operatic wage is eked
out by concert engagements on off-nights,
two or three times a week. A popular tenor
or soprano can thus rake in £l5OO or £2OOO
a year without much difficulty.
“Sentient”: The business of handing up
flowers at local concerts is ridiculously over-
done and often wastes valuable lime. Who
wants to see an ushers’ parade lasting
several minutes and a debutante scooping
in more floral tributes than Melba or Dolores
usually get? It isn’t done abroad and should
be abolished here. Our budding sopranos’
admiring friends should send their “tokens of
appreciation” round to the artists’ room—
the proper place for them.
“Ilamer” : I was telling some theatrical
yarns to my tent-mates after
lights-out, while we were spell-
ing near Abbeville, when
Butcher, a new arrival, broke
in with his story—-an episode
of a performance of “The
Term of llis Natural Life” at
the Royal, Christchurch. Dur-
ing the cannibalism scene a
member of the audience had
tried to interfere, and when
lie was prevented from climb-
ing on to the stage he yelled:
“You blanlcy beast!” at Gab-
bett. Butcher recalled that it
was during a Majeroni season.
It was. Of the three charac-
ters concerned Mario Majeroni
was the Rex, Harry Douglas
the Gabbett, and the Veitch
was—well, the man who was
listening to the yarn. But.
talking about coincidences, I
had searched France for harp-
ist Bertie Torzillo, and could
never pick him up. In London
I had just left lI.Q. when I
remembered something I had
forgotten, and turned to get it;
and Torzillo had forgotten to
post a letter, so he was turning
back to go to the Victoria-
street Post Office; and the com-
bined remembrance of things forgotten pro-
duced the only meeting we had a chance of
having over there.
Albert Wade, of Ipswich (Q.), has soon
made his mark in S. Aus. He moved down
south to be bandmaster of the Adelaide Model
Band, and under his conductorship the Adel-
aide Glee Club has won the male-voice choir
competition at the local Peace Exhibition.
_ Ziegfeld of New York lately told an inter-
viewer how he picks the pretty girls for his
famous Follies, and how averages work out:
Hundreds of applicants come to us. So we ought
to know something about beauty—and we think we
do. The ones who make thoroughly big successes
have beauty plus personality. A girl may have a
lovely face; if there is “nobody home” behind that
face, people will soon get bored. The more she
has to do, the more she will betray her stupidity.
The small girl is a type which is popular with men.
Women are crazy about the tall girls. Men admire
them, too; but they seem to like the others better.
The Florodora sextet started a furore for the tall,
handsome one. The inevitable reaction came, and
popular taste swung round to the small girl, full
of pep and action—the pony ballet. The popular
type at present is the medium height, slender but
not too slender. A few years ago it was the small
one who was rather plump. To-day she should be
a couple of inches taller, but should weigh just
about the same. Our showgirls are bounded on the
south by 16, and on the north by 23. We have
very few older than that, for the simple reason
that they marry. The average conception of the
life of a chorus-girl is—well, it isn’t fit to print.
Last year, when the Follies went on the road, almost
50 girls in the company took their mothers along.
“0.K.”: One would have thought that of
all Australian showmen who travel a lot
by sea and land the Wirths would be as
free as anyone from chest troubles. A circus
manager is expected to have the rude health
of a gipsy. He gets so much air in his life,
which looks such a healthy life compared
with that of men who do the bulk of their
breathing on fusty theatre premises. Yet
there’s nothing robustious about the Wirths.
George is an old, experienced sufferer from
asthma, and now his brother Phil has got
bronchial asthma badly, perhaps as the result
of a chill caught while recovering from a
surgical operation. And wasn’t it asthma
the late Dan Fitzgerald fought against for
many years?
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Carter the Great dispenses magic.
“One Night Stand”: Is the country pic-
ture-show proprietor a hog? If not he often
gives a star impersonation of the part. I
don’t blame him for grabbing all the best
dates in his town; but when there are two
halls it is plain pig to rent them both and
keep one shut, llis great pose is: “I’m a
local resident, and the money stays in your
town.” I met one pouring his sob-story into
the ears of a few locals at the pub. He was
“going big,” and for his final speech about
the visiting actor who takes all the money
out of the town he got such a good “round”
that he shouted. After I’d absorbed his
beer, I said my little piece. # First, what did
the actors do with all the money they took
away? He didn’t know, but they took it.
Then I put down my money for the next
round of drinks, and asked them how many
times Charlie Chaplin hopped off the screen
and came over for a pot. They got thought-
ful then.
“C. Ockney”: Australia’s old friend
George Anson is still, at 74, one of the best
character-actors in London. Of late the
veteran has been with Henry Ainley at the
St. James’s, where away back in the ’seven-
ties he electrified playgoers by his perform-
ance of Scum Goodman in “Clancarty.”
With Ainley he had a much less strenuous
rfffe in a homely comedy called “Uncle Ned.”
This was written by the bright and skilful
Douglas Murray, the author of the very suc-
cessful “Man from Toronto,” which Robert
Courtneidge is bringing to Australia.
“Private Boxer”: There are no serious
plays in England worth any Australian
manager’s consideration. And yet “Abra-
ham Lincoln,” written by the brilliant John
Drinkwater, is having the same success in
America that it had in London, where it
ran for 464 consecutive performances.
A MATTER OF FORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweet Annie, in her private rOle,
I think is all too slim;
But, acting, she seems, on the whole,
Quite large enough of limb.
Behind the scenes the other night
She caught my glance, I fear.
“Oh, yes,” she said, “they're pads all right—
But just for form’s sake, dear I”
VICTORIA.
S. S.
THE UPRISING OF DESDEMONA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Maybe you’ve heard of Alma Jane Priscilla Anne
Delroy;
She was an actress large and fierce, one few would
dare annoy.
So grim her reputation men approached with bated
breath.
They said that in America she’d stormed a pro to
death.
You’ll remember Tarn’s Othello. ’Twas a very fine
attempt,
Though Tarn was mild as mother’s milk, from pas-
sion’s heat exempt.
The Delroy’s Desdemona by its .force implied she
might
Knock the eyebrows off Othello if disposed to make
a fight.
But all went well till that grim scene wherein
upon her bed
The Moor attempts to slaughter her. We know
what he said,
We don’t know what he did. Behold, the injured
wife arose
And clawed at poor Othello, and did damage to his
nose!
She seized a metal-mounted brush with which she
did her hair,
She dented in his head for him, she hit him with
a chair.
She cursed him, and then charging with a mirror
drove him thence.
Othello fled, and quaking stood alnong the aud-i-ence.
The curtain fell, and up again it presently arose,
Disclosing Desdemona on the bed in sweet repose.
The manager strode out in front. “Come back, come
back ! ” he stormed.
“She's safe, you , blighted idiot—we’ve got her
chloroformed!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Pair of Finest Quality Entr6e Dishes, newest design, with
Silver-plated Heater, £27/10/- complete.
Silver-plated Ware
In addition to their large selections of Sterling Silver
Plate, the Firm carry the finest quality in Silver-plated
articles of best English workmanship. The Entree Dishes
illustrated are of a quality equalled only by silver itself,
whilst the heavy deposit of that metal in the plating
process ensures almost indefinite wear. The Heater is
of best manufacture, with double set of lamps and
aluminium plate; conjointly or individually, these
articles form a useful and acceptable gift.
Selections of articles will be sent on approval, post
free, to any address in the Commonwealth.
WUlm. Brummonb & Co,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Gillette
Safety Razors
ANNOUNCEMENT
Altered conditions having made
it possible for us to readjust
prices, Gillette Safety Razors and
Blades are now quoted as under,
throughout Australia:—
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZORS.
STANDARD SET: Heavy Triple-Silver-
plated Razor and one dozen Gillette
Blades in neat Leather Case,
2816
GILLETTE BLADES, 6/6 per dozen.
SS2I
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
S. HOFFNUNG £& CO., LTD., SYDNEY.
Wholesale Agents.
PROSPECTUS
OF
New South Wales Government Loan of £2,000,000.
Rate of Interest, 5| per cent, per annum.
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR.
Interest Payable, Ist June and Ist December.
First Payment of Interest, Ist December, 1920.
Principal Repayable at Par, in Sydney, Ist June, 1925.
List of Applications Closes, Wednesday, 30th June, 1920.
The Government of New South Wales offerfc for subscription a loan of £2,000,000, bearing interest at the rate of 5 \ per
cent, per annum and having a currency of 5 years from Ist June, 1920, a guarantee being given that the interest will be free of both
New South Wales and Federal Income Taxes.
The loan is being raised under the authority of the Act of Parliament No. 2 7 of 1919, and is for the purpose of providing
funds to enable the Government to make advances, approximating to £2,000,000, to necessitous farmers who are suffering from
the effects of the prevailing disastrous drought, and also for providing funds for the completion of the wheat-silos scheme.
Applications for the loan should be addressed to the Colonial Treasurer, The Treasury, Sydney.
The principal, which must be lodged in full with the application, will be accepted free of exchange, and the loan may be
subscribed for either in the form of Funded Stock or Debentures, at the option of the subscriber.
Subscribers for Funded Stock may have the interest on their Stock i emitted to their Bank accounts in the country or outside
the State free of exchange, but the interest on the Debentures will be payable in Sydney.
Forms of application for the Stock or Debentures may be obtained from the Registrar of Stock, The Treasury, Sydney;
from the Branches of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales throughout the State, and also at all Branches in the State
of the Bank of New South Wales and the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited.
Applications for the Loan may be forwarded through members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
Interest on the Stock will accrue from the date of purchase, but, as a coupon for a full six months’ interest will be attached
to the Debentures, accrued interest, at per cent, per annum, from Ist June to date of purchase, must be added to any applications
for Debentures lodged after that date.
Stock may be purchased in multiples of £lO and Debentures in multiples of £lOO.
Purchase money lodged prior to Ist June, 1920, will be held on deposit at per cent, per annum up to that date.
The Treasury, Sydney,
Bth May, 1920.
JOHN T. LANG,
Colonial Treasurer.


A GREAT Australian
” Garden.
THE FINEST APPLE COUNTRY ON EARTH-
STONE FRUITS AND VEGETABLES TO PERFEC-
TION. Perfect soil and climate and certain rainfall
provide the ideal pursuit of agriculture.
Secure an orchard in any stage of development or
production on terms to suit.
R. E. BEDFORD, Stanthorpe, Queensland.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOB INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANAEMIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating.
A.B
TOE
SISTERE
(Registered.)
L
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
e- CO., LTD.. r'lronco Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Eaunceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SPORTING
NOTION
MICK
SIMMONS
FOR
SPORTING
NEEDS
* * * *
Tlie Fortafix pony Warspite, which took
the A.J.C. Flying last month and ran second in the
Denman Stakes to Palm Leaf a week later, helped
herself to Tattersall’s Flying at Randwick on Satur-
day. As all the heads were on Palm Leaf, who was
well enough to be reckoned unbeatable, Warspite’s
backers got sixes and even sevens. Palm Leaf never
looked a winner. She managed to poke her nose
into the argument at the turn, but at once got
bumped well back and stayed there. Of the others
E. J. Watt’s Bright Night did the best, and when
they pulled him out for the Welter, later in the
day, the rush to get on nearly carried Ike off his
perch. The money stayed where it went. The
promise of Spring seems to have been fallacious in
Bright Night’s case.
Master Mutoa, a good stamp of M.L. hurdler,
struck trouble at Randwick on Saturday. After
getting half-way in the jumping event he somer-
saulted, and had to be carted away. He is owned
by Harry Palmer, at one time an eminent WeUing-
ton fish cook. Fried flounders have been a dashed
sight more profitable to Henry than horses.
Richard Wootton, who is settling in Australia
as a pastoralist, arrived in time to see a couple of
his English-bred horses run at Randwick. One was
that once good prad Whitefield, who mislaid most
of his pace a year ago and hasn’t found it since;
the other a mare named Kilkumon. Both were well
backed—especially Kilkumon. Neither had a hope.
Kilkumon failed against Otway Falkiner’s M.L. filly
Fluency, by Demosthenes; and Whitefield was well
settled by some suburban battlers.
It isn’t often a gelding wins a month or
two after being added to the list. But a Charlemagne
offspring did it at Randwick on Saturday. When
Tieh was intact he had a lot of pace and a bad
temper. He was gelded after the summer meetings,
and on Saturday he ran away from a big field of
other two-year-olds. Among them was Ruthalba,
a fine looking colt by October. His trainer (Joe
Burton) reckons he will be heard of again.
* * * *
The Prince of Wales pulled the lever for
the Marlborough Stakes at the Royal Canterbury
(M.L.) Meeting; but that apart the event lacked
interest. The absence of Sasanof, who has been
injured, was the chief cause. After Amythas’s de-
feat by Silver Link the public looked on the im-
ported Arrowsmith as a cert, for the mile, especi-
ally as Amythas is now inclined to dwell at the
post. The race, however, went to the son of
Demosthenes by two lengths in the fair time of
Imin. 40sec.
* * * #
Horse-buyers are joining the universal
outcry against the income-tax joker. A man pur-
chases half a dozen youngsters for, say, £5OO
apiece at the yearling sales. One of them shows
form and is sold for £l5OO as a two-year-old; the
others turn out duffers. The income-tax sharps levy
on £lOOO, alleging this to be a profit, but allow
the buyer nothing for the money he has sunk on
the steeds that wiH “never head a duck.”
W. Duncan, the most successful Vic. rider
for the nine months just ended, has had 31 win-
ners, 26 seconds and 21 thirds in 197 mounts.
(Dempsey is next, riding* 20 of his 99 mounts to
victory, and would probably have given Duncan
a better go if he had not been out of the saddle
for two months in the spring owing to illness.
P. Kelly (16J wins) and G. Harrison (16) are next.
* * * *
Adelaide Tattersall’s announced joyfully at
its annual meeting that it had in the year increased
its membership by 86, and wiped out a £l9OO over-
draft and a £7OO War Loan liability. It holds
£3500 of War Loan now, and grave £BOOO in stakes
at race meetings during the 12 months. Tattersall’s
Cup is the only flat race of two miles in South
Aus.; it is to be worth £lOOO this year.
* * * *
Adelaide Cup daj> broke up the drought
which has been hanging over that city. The unex-
pectedly soft going played up with public form.
The only horses backed down to under 10 to 1
were Daarewin, Cape Sky, Crusader, Dependence
and King of the Sea; and none of these finished in
the first three. Two old ones were first home.
Wee Gun won the Cup at his fourth attempt; he
gallops in South Aus. as nowhere else, and is
immensely popular. Green Cap, second, was the win-
ner in 1917. The race-winners of two days pre-
viously, when the course was dry, were all out
of it. j
Wee Gun, winner of the Adelaide Cup, is an
astonishing old gentleman of eight, who for two
seasons has alternated domestic duties with racing
without any apparent inconvenience. With luck
he may yet realise the fancy of the lady novelist
and beat his own offspring in a race (“in the
Derby,” “Ouida” was libellously said to have written).
He was bred by John Lewis, squatter and M.L.C.
Trainers may like to note that he was never
raced till just the end of his three-year-old season ;
and he has won the (Adelaide) Birthday Cup at
six and the Adelaide Cup (with Bst. 51b.) at eight.
* * * *
Melbourne racegoers have begun to look
for National possibilities, so a lot of them inclined
their thoughts to King Neptune after he had got
away with the Hurdle Race at Epsom last Saturday.
Eric Connolly owns this son of Sea Prince. Given
a young novice’s weight in the G.N.H., he should be
at least worth considering for the three-mile event.
But he is only a beginner and, anyhow, there are
many hurdles to be jumped between now and July 2.
« # » •
Van Homreigli, a distinguished old gentle-
horse at the jumping game, was mercifully murdered
in N. S. Wales last week. He was a great performer
some years ago, when he had the bad luck to run
against Jullundur in the Flemington National, but
made amends to his backers by winning the Aus-
tralian Hurdles at Caulfield a month later. The final
run of old Obi had to be evaded, and it was great to
see Van Homreigh, with Hugh Cairns aboard, fly the
last hurdle as though he were fleeing from the
Devil.
A high wind, driving cold showers across
the grounds, made Melbourne’s Saturday football a
sour contrast to that of the previous week’s, and
scrambling, congested play disappointed the on-
lookers, Still, a big crowd pushed into Victoria
Park, to see if Melbourne, which had downed South
and Essendon, could repeat it with 'Wood. They
might have done so but for two factors: ’Wood’s
champion follower, “Flapper” Hughes, was fit and
well again and better than any man the red-legs
could put against him;
and ’Wood’s skipper used
his head. At half-time
the scores were 22 all;
then, with the wind, the
Magpies opened out and
finished the quarter with
36 points to Melbourne’s 23.
In the last term ’Wood’s
strategy was deadly. Play-
ing always to the lee wing
the Magpies never once
let the others get a
chance to score, and with
the least opening they
attacked, finishing up with
44 points to Melbourne’s
same old 23. Souths
gained their first victory,
at Essendon’s expense,
after a strenuous and
fairly willing game, 63
points to 56 being the
measure thereof, and St.
Kilda outed Geelong with
78 points to 66. Carlton,
failing to perceive that it
wasn’t a day for spectao-
ular high-marking, crashed
before the systematic short
passes of ’Roy, with but
three goals 11 behinds to
the Maroons’ five goals
eight behinds.
MERRICK , of
Fitzroy, their orach
goalkeeper.
The Balmain v. Newtown engagement in
the third round of Sydney League competition was
not so much a match as a massacre in which the
premiers outplayed, outran, outlasted and eventually
routed the Blues. Scores: 41 points (9 tries and 7
goals) to three (a try). Newtown were not faring
too badly until “Ricketty” Johnson, their skipper,
was despatched to the pavilion by referee McMahon.
Fouls aside, he had been playing a great game. His
irremediable loss forced the team to work with a
five pack and make a half-back of G. Glamback,
one of the forwards. The best player on the ground
was the beaten team’s forward Dick Townsend, and
Ryan, his clubmate, also shone. Of the Newtown
backs H. Bolewski and Paul Boys did all that was
possible, but ’Mains were too even and generally
classy. Tony Halloway (cool and deliberate as
usual, though showing signs of wear), “Snowy”
Latta and big man Russell, with Cummings assist-
ing, were the pick of the winning vanguard. “Jun-
ker” Robinson improved upon his previous Satur-
day’s performance, whilst R. Proust was much
happier as stand-off half than G. Robinson, whom
he superseded. J. Craig played solidly, as also
did Conoghan. This lad should stand a good
chance of inclusion in a rep. team. In the lesser
clashes Glebe, chiefly through the agency of the
Burge brothers, triumphed over North Sydney and
Harold Horder by 20 points to 13. Eastern Suburbs
hit up a score of 44 against the 'Varsity striplings ;
and Souths administered a 26 to 6 hiding to the
Annandale optimists.
* * * *
In the third round of Sydney Rugby
Union on Saturday ’Varsity bumped a snag in Easts.
What Unis, want is a good goal-converter after
the style of the late Johnnie Verge. Both teams
were in the pink, and the halves kept their de-
pendents on the move. Walker, of Easts, was in
continuous connection with Mcßorie; and, in the
loose, Doutriband and R. Marrot were always on
the ball. For ’Varsity Farquhar and Wallace had
most calls on them. All round, the students were
unlucky to make no more than a draw of it. New-
town went down to a weak Glebe-Balnrain team to
the tune of 45-3. Buchanan showed flashes of his
A.I.F. form for G.-8., kicking well and keeping
the other backs going, and Mayne quite lost the
Newtownites. Manly had Wests “wet” from the
start. The latter could do nothing right, and
crashed by 12-29. Wogan worked hard to make
his team graft, but without much result, except
in the case of Robertson, the five-eighth. Manly’s
back division were together, and Mingay kept them
well fed. James, who, on the wing, runs as straight
as a die, played a fine game in attack. West’s
forwards were the superior pack, but the opposing
backs nullified their advantage. Mosman, chiefly
through the agency of D. R. Hodgins, were all over
Norths. Score, 22-6. Norths are hopeless at all
points of the game.
* * * *
Certain Sydney University footballers
have insisted on playing the League game, and the
hideous possibility that they may be ranked as
pros, is being dangled before them. This although
there is no suggestion that any of them is making
or intends to make money out of the sport. It
is quite passable that the blow will fall, since the
whole law on the question reeks of anomaly and
ancient prejudice. A boxer who merely gave
an exhibition in public with a professional pug
would be settled for life. As against this a duke
may ride either on the flat or across country for
stake-money against a field of hired jockeys and
remain lily-white. At Henley a laborer is ipso
facto a pro., and can’t appear with amateurs at
all. At Lord’s social positioh has nothing to do
with the matter; but if a cricketer is openly paid
he must enter and leave the field by a different gate
from the “Gentlemen.” But a “gentleman” may
be paid, as W. G. Grace was, and not be classed
as a “player,” provided he collects the cash with
discretion. Nor is the amateur status of a gentle-
man destroyed on a cricket ground by however close
an association with pros. The Corinthians (ama-
teurs) play against Sheffield United (pros.) at
soccer and are unpolluted ; pro. and amateur pigeon-
shots compete at Monte Carlo and elsewhere; and
golf pros, play with club members without detri-
ment to the latter. Why not abolish the distinc-
tion altogether, and leave it to individual sports-
men to decide whether or no they shall make a
profit out of their prowess? The real basis of the
present muddled arrangement is an idea that affluent
inefficiency has a right to be protected; and the
modern mind will not admit the claim.
* * * *
Cortez couldn’t do to Jackie Green at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night what his name-
sake did to Mexico 400 years ago. But the family
will to win was all there, and the name was by
no means disgraced. Cortez is easily the most
Bkilful of the Filipinos who have so far figured in
Australia. On the other hand, he is less rugged
than his brother-islanders; and he is particularly
weak, evidently, in the region of the waist-line. As
he has no guard for the stomach, and as Green
can hit as accurately as, any lad in Australia, the
end was but a question of time. The hidalgo’s down-
fall transpired in the sixteenth, when the Aus-
tralian landed full on his solar plexus. Green gave
a disappointing display, on the whole. He is either
out of condition or was indisposed to take the in-
vader seriously.
* * * »
“Glab’’: The local possessor of a “chloro-
form wallop” has mostly been considered a bad
draw and been left on the outer accordingly. Pro-
minent cases recalled by Sid Godfrey’s present experi-
ence (B. 6/5/’2O) are those of Bill Rudd and ban-
tam-star Ted Green. The first-named was practi-
cally always on the ice, whilst the midget wonder
(who once successfully defended his title at 7st.
121 b.) could only hope for engagements by tackling
feathers and even lightweights. On the other hand,
imported sloggers like Milburn Saylor and Pat Brad-
ley have never so suffered.
* * * *
S.A.’s victory in the inter-State champion-
ship eights at Brisbane was little more than a
pleasurable outing. Queensland was in the van
over the first quarter-mile, but thereafter S. Aus.
led to the finish, pursued by Westralia, Tasmania,
Victoria, N.S.W. and Queensland, in that order.
W. M. gladden (stroke), W. Jarvis, W. H. Pfeiffer,
G. Oliver and A. V. Scott were in the S. Aus.
boat which finished second in this event in 1914.
The new men are H. E. Graetz (bow), G. V. Perry
and E. D. Thomas. In the Westralian boat G. E.
Rogfcrs (stroke), A. Sadler, T. Hughes and G. W.
Mettam figured in the 1914 event.
For the sculling championship there were
four starters, but Arthur Baynes (Q.) always had
the measure of the opposition, and crossed the judges
with lengths to spare in 16min. 56sec. G. West-
brook (Tas.), J. Barton (Vic.) and M. Goodsell
filled the other places. Baynes is a polished
sculler who has been training with Geo. Towns on
the Parramatta. He holds the Q. singles champion-
ship ; and although not old enough for a vote has
the remarkable sequence of seven wins in seven
starts.
* * * . *
Englishman Ernest Barry, who arrived at
Sydney on Saturday,is a sparsely-built athlete
compared with Felton, much less Dick Arnst; but
what he loses in meatiness he is understood to make
up as a waterman. He is putting up with his
trainer Bob McAlpine at George Towns’s shed at
Gladesville —a half-way position on the champion-
ship course.
* * * *
Jim Paddon has dropped a bomb into the
happy little Barry-Felton party. He threatens, now
that Barry is safely here, that unless both of them
give him matches on his own terms he will claim
the championship of the world, and be justified under
the rules in so doing. Whatever the letter of the
law may be, Paddon’a action represents poor sports-
manship. Felton went after Barry and licked him,
vthich Paddon, for whatever reason, did not do; and
most people will agree that Felton gave as much
help as any man to the subsequent movement which
brought Barry to Australia. If Paddon butted in
at this stage, and won, he would be about the most
unpopular champion in the history of sport.
* * * *
John Sandes’s reverent reconstruction of
the Prince’s little mishap at the Christchurch (M.L.)
races supplies an evidently unconscious key to the
Royal horsemanship. The champion show-jumper
“flew” the first fence, but later “put his head down
and swerved,” and afterwards was caught in a
highly nervous state —all these speak as plainly as
words. They denote, firstly, that the Prince’s “hands”
are bad. His mount had such an unenjoyable time
negotiating the first fence that he wasn’t risking
his mouth over another. The Prince wasn’t too
confident, or he would have slammed the animal
at the obstacle with a fairly full head of steam on—
he would have “thrown his heart over the fence,” as
the Irish say. And his seat is weak, or a mere
swerve into a wing wouldn’t have ousted him. The
writer saw the King of Spain ride through Paris
some 14 years ago;
and as the procession
turned into the Avenue
de a band
blared, and Alfonso’s
charger wheeled half-
across the street and
came down on its
haunches. The tall,
lean monarch never
shifted in his saddle.
Nothing could have
been more tradesman-
like than the way he
gave the terrified brute
its head, and reassured
it when it had flnallv
struggled up. A great
man on a horse is the
Spanish king. Cer-
tainly the Prince
would have been badly
handicapped last week
by his civilian clothes.
It is remarkable the
difference that breeches
and boots make to the
seat of the type of
Englishman who rarely
rides in anything else.
COBCROFTL, Sec.
Victoria Park
Racing Club
(Sydney).
Ashley Campbell, the Port Adelaide tennis
player, is migrating from South Oss to Maoriland,
having been transferred to the Auckland branch of
the Colonial Sugar Co. His tennis record is rather
remarkable, as he has represented Vic., N.S.W. and
S. Aus. in inter-State contests. Campbell was at
his top as a player in 1911. His game has gone oft
a bit through lack of practice, but he should be a
handy man to have about the Maoriland courts if
the Davis Cup contests are played there.
The new blood triumphed at N.S.W. lawn-
tennis championships. Miss Halley defeated Mrs.
Ford in the singles (6—4, 6 —3), and, partnered,
they won the doubles from Mrs. Fuller and Miss
St. George (3 —6, 6 —2, 6—3). In the men’s
matches Bob Neil took the singles from Eric Poek-
ley (6 —4, 4—6, 6 —l, 6 —3) ; and these defeated
Clark and Plomley in the doubles (6 —1, 6 —2,
B—6). The hard-working Neil profited by his
experience against Norman Brookes; his volleying
was great. It was Neil’s first N.S.W. champion-
ship success, and it doesn't look like being his last.
* * * *
M.L. bowlers again went wallop v. N. S.
Wales at Sydney last week; this time by 146 —115
and 134 —120. In the latter tussle M.L. had visions
of victory when leading by 93—92 at the 15th
end; but in the last six ends they broke down
badly. The great rink win by Parker (38 —9) was
their one bright effort.
» » * *
The M.C.C. will guarantee between £12,000
and £15,000 to finance the tour of the English
cricket team. The Australian Board of Control,
which has agreed to this, doesn’t expect any profit
from the gate after the Englishmen have been paid.
In fact, it only expects to make ends meet by get-
ting good houses at a rise of 6d. in the price of
admission all round. This increase will apply to
all matches in the capitals and probably some of
the other fixtures elsewhere.
* * * *
Adelaide has lost a great footballer and
good soldier in Arthur Limb. After helping Sturt
to win the premiership in 1915, he went through the
war to the finish in France, unhurt; but on the
voyage home last year he took a heavy cold, which
developed into consumption and has now proved
fatal.
* * * *
Mainly through the advocacy of Slater.
M.L.A., himself an athlete, Premier Lawson has
agreed to grant £2OO towards the exes, of the
Vic. section at the Olympic Games in Antwerp.
Slater took part in the Great Game, and was
returned as member for Dundas in 1917 while he
was still in khaki.
.Toe Megson, one of the most popular
cyclists who ever put a nose on the front wheel
and kicked a machine in, has just had his last
ride. He won races over most distances in Aus-
tralia, but had little luck outside his own country.
MODERN PROGRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“As a sequel to the M.L. jockeys’ strike the com-
mittee representing the labor unions has passed a
resolution that all North Island racecourses under
the jurisdiction of the Maoriland Racing Confer-
ence be declared black. The committee also decided
that racehorses, together with all transport to and
from racecourses, be declared black in the North
Island, and also between the North and South
islands. All unionists have been asked for financial
support towards the movement.”
“Times have altered,” mused old Strongarm, hero
of uncounted wins
(And also r* some unaccounted losses) ;
“It’s the Race Club heads that nowadays get charged
with all the sins—
The jockeys, not the stewards, are the bosses.
I’ve nothing much to growl about: 1 got a fairish
spin,
Though I wasn’t always quite the clean pertater,
And my riding was from time to time distinctly
out-and-in,
Still—l wish I’d started twenty-five years later.
“In the days when I was working, any funny busi-
ness aimed
At taking down the punter for his savings
Wasn’t hailed as just and right; in fact, it was
severely blamed,
Both rich and poor emitting angry ravings.
Boys frequently got rubbed right out for stiffening
their prads
And backing some unheeded selling-plater;
And no one struck —unless, indeed, they struck
the ruined lads.
I ought to have lived twenty-five years later.
“Jocks have plainly got, these days, a little gold-
mine in their hands.
Though licked they stand to always roll home
winners.
Thus the ones who frame up jokes which strip the
patrons of the stands
May either, undetected, bank their skinners;
Or, having been discovered, they may call a trans-
port strike
Of which the only possible abater
Is absolute permission to do what they dam’ well
like—■
I wish I’d been born twenty-five years later.”
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


GOULD YOU RUN A MILE TO-DAY?
f
I’ll bet you couldn’t —but don’t you wish you could ?
Don't you wish that you were “sound in wind and limb”
and able to run or jump or swim or row or box like
you used to a few years back ? It is so easy to get out
of condition, and the longer you leave it the harder it is
to regain. Start to-day to recover the grand sensation of
“feeling fit.”
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will be the means of givin g you Renewed Health and
Strength. You will find my exercises both beneficial and
an enjoyable pastime, and will look forward to the time
when you have to do them. You will find the benefits very
rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen
your lungs, and make you breathe in a natural manner.
My Booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should
like to send you a copy.
Just write your name and address across this advertisement
and post it to me. I will know what you mean. Send
three stamps for postage.
REG. L. (Snowy) BAKER,
Natural Health and
Physioal Culture
Expert,
267 Munlolpal Buildings, Oxford Street (Or. Crown Bt.), Sydney.
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
ƒ
MAKES OLD RAZORS
SHAVE LIKE NEW.
A sharp Razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself, yet
how to keep it sharp,
with tough beards has
always been the great
obstacle, for the average
man does not know how to set or
sharpen a Razor. The simple yet
expedient PERFORATED HONE
solves the question permanently;
it provides a lifetime of easy
shaving for a small outlay—only
5/-, or post free 6/6. TRY THE
PERFORIATED HONE ; if it
doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 6/-, or post free 6/6 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11-123 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. [S
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
the general manager,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
g
f
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WARES—Arthur Eeplastrier & Co., Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALiIA—Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
NEW ZEAEAND—BIair, Reed & Co., Utd., Wellington.
MARAY STATES, JAVA—Dunn & George, Utd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Kruses
1 Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
ƒg
f
ƒg
The “High Cost of Clothes”
h
Need Not Worry
YOU.
You need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes, out of keeping
with your income, since you can,
in actual fact, still obtain GOOD
Clothes to Order at Moderate Cost.
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED —at prices
to suit any pocket.
Featured in our present Display of
iSuitings for Autumn is a Splendid
Selection of
All-Wool
Australian
Tweeds.
These Textures in Quality and Design
have nothing to lose by comparison
with materials made abroad, and it is
only by reason of the fact that they
have been made in Australia that we
are able to quote them in Honestly-
made Suits to order at prices from
At these Figures they represent truth-
fully the Best-Suit Investment in Aus-
tralia to-day. Don't place that new-
suit order till you’ve seen samples of
our ALL-WOOL, AUSTRALIAN-
MADE Materials.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln
Stuart 8 Co.
PTY.
LTD.,
“Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders St, Melbourne.


O'
\
■i ~ N>!
miiiun n imii in Hhc^SliiS
sainoaoHO
A3Naxs-s.HiWOT£>
Lady Margaret”
Chocolates
DELICIOUS
"Fresh-Made” CONFECTIONS
HERE is pictured one of the
choicest gems from Farmer’s
Confectionery Section. It is
the " Lady Margaret ” box of deli-
cious Assorted Chocolates. The
box is a dainty affair of gold and
black, and holds, temptingly en-
sconced, one pound of the most
pleasing chocolates, with rich al-
mond, nut and nougat fillings.
The price, per box, is . . . . 5/6
FARMER’S
Phone City 11,000 Box 497, G.P.O.
As a Celebrated Man
once said:
‘‘lnspiration does not come easily to a man who has a cold
in his head.” There is no need to sniffle or snuffle and be
apologetic about it. Take
IRISH MOSS
For Your COUGH or COLD.
You 1 ' head will soon clear, the phlegm will disappear, and
inflamed tissues will promptly be healed.
Bonnington’s is good in all cases of Cold, Coughing, Influenza,
Asthma, Bronchitis and similar affections.
Ask for it by name. Sold everywhere, 1/6 and 2/6.
I
oK23£3s®gfiB§^;
ttmmws
CABR
fife
S 3&
IRISH "MOSSi
I
t-_, is;csi>
CfcMC* ocmjTlhctoji
fsK3£2BB^^r
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The G.-G. household is well iii training
for the Prince ceremonials. Lady Helen does
not need to run to the library for guidance.
She was bred to Court etiquette, her distin-
guished father having been Ambassador to
nearly every Court in Europe in his day.
Cliveden flatters are rustling with excite-
ment. The Prince will visit that smart
rabbit warren. Admiral Grant, who has his
diggings there, is to entertain young Edward
at dinner.
The invitations to the Gaud Mayor’s dance
in honor of the Prince are nearly ns large
as tea-trays. Perhaps they were made so
in order that the Truly Loyal might have
them framed and hung. The huge things
cost Is. Id. each to send through the post.
They were put up in monster envelopes
braced with cardboard. The cat who did
not receive one could not miss the triumph
of the cat who did. Small entree cards are
to follow.
As only 200 are being invited to the ball
and 50 to the dinner at State Government
House, Malvern, to meet Him, there will be
many disappointments. But space is limited;
in fact, it will be a jamb to fit 50 into the
Wagner family’s old dining-room. Still,
enterprising hostesses can do wonderful
things at times.
Mrs. Stein’s At Home after the mcn-only
mayoral dinner in the Town Hall was a
change from the usual quiet party. Instead
of tea and cake and a peep at the feeding
lions there -was a jazz. The Gaud
Mayor had been inclined to fume at the up-
set, but—man proposes and woman disposes.
The heavy furniture and carpets were
hauled out, and the floor polished to perfec-
tion. Coral-pink blossoms were garlanded
about and soft-complexion lights installed.
The Mayoress got a fine effect by dressing
in black with only her ruddy hair for color.
The daughters of aldermen and councillors
had the time of their lives, a battaliou of
young dancing men being on duty. The
just-returned son of the Mayor—whose
war-service is being anxiously asked
about —helped a lot, and khaki was well
sprinkled around. Severe Town Hall officials
looked rather dubiously at invaders who fos-
sicked out all sorts of sacred corners for
sitting out, and even got into the rooms
where glasses clink. Late-comers to the
jazz party had a tough fight to reach the
upper regions through the descending crowd
from Verbrugghen’s festival. That decorous
affair finished in the early hours of the even-
ing; the -jazz finished in the early hom-s of
the morning.
Genthelp Ewen Wanliss. brother to the
Irvine dame, is recovering from a long ill-
ness, and was about at the end of last week.
Farewells to Archbishop Mannix packed
the week-end. A big celebration at the Exhi-
bition on Thursday was reproduced in movie
form at the Princess’s Theatre on Friday.
His Grace went to see the pictures and
sat in the centre of the dress-circle in the
full glory of robes and biretta. He was
flanked by John Wren and Mrs. Wren, and
the lady beamed with becoming pride when
Wren’s song was sung from the orchestra-
well. The song is a pathetic appeal to
Mannix to “Gome Back to Australia.” Some
beautiful voices of children came out of the
dark singing the refrain after the hidden
soloist had finished. They made a good try
to crowd Wren’s “Australia” into the place
where the original song-writer had “Erin,”
the music having been borrowed from that
ballad. The theatre was packed, but the fire-
men looked leniently on the choking of the
stairs and corridors. There were moving
pictures of the Irish rising of 1916 and still
pictures (to music) of Irishmen who were
killed. A fine collection of V.C. men were
nictured and their records screened in words.
They walked through the film to be presented
to the Archbishop. Mannix went on to the
stage at the finish and made a farewell
speech, and the crowd nearly raised the roof.
And on Saturday they fussed so much about
Spencer-street that his car couldn’t get
through the crowd, and the unemotional
express steamed away without him.
The Percy Chirnside family are sheltering
at Menzies’ for a time. Mrs. Percy has
changed very little during her years in Eng-
land. The gold of her locks has browned
a trifle, but she still wears the pleasant smile
for which she is famed, and her chiffbnery is
as exquisite as ever.
Mrs. George Kelly, reinforced by her
daughter, Mrs. Russell Grimwade, hostessed
an afternoon tea at her Toorak house on
Friday. It was a petticoated orgy to wel-
come and farewell son Charlie’s bride (lately
Gwen Affleck). The newly-weds, after a
brief spell at Flinders, will set out on a trip
to Europe and America. The bridegroom got
home only last year, wearing a Military Cross
ribbon on his officer’s tunic. The tea raged
agreeably. Contralto Ivy Philips warbled
in the front parlor.
Captain Spowers, who has taken up the
job of A.D.C. to Lieut.-Governor Irvine,
represented his Ex. for the first time at the
funeral of George Steward.
Lesley Madden is convalescing in Mount
Saint Evin’s Hospital after a bout of illness.
The Madden dame is home just in time to
cheer up her sick daughter.
Gordon Carter has been cheered by a wire
from his middy son, Geoffrey, reporting com-
plete recovery from his pneumonic ’flu.
Geoffrey and his pals arrive here by
the Naldera and will wait at Williams-
town to rejoin the Renown on her arrival
in Port Phillip. The lads are delighted that
they will be taken to the Heads in a picket-
boat and shot on board before the Princelet
appears in official waters.
Cheered by the expectancj' of a rise in
salary, Federal members and a few outsiders
fell upon a heavy repast provided by Edmund
Jowett in the Queen’s Hall at Federal Par-
liament House last week. Jowett was cele-
brating his appointment as Treasurer of the
local fragment of the Empire Parliamentary
Association, and it probably cost him £2OO
or £BOO to let his colleagues know how he
felt about it. As to how his guests felt there
was no possible doubt. When the rich viands,
passed away and the liquor circulated, the
opinion of Edmund Jowett was absolutely
unanimoush. Choruses were roared after a
few facetious remarks by Hughes, Anstey,
and others, and a little after 10 the show
broke up into choirs, several of which seemed
determined to see the next dav in.
W. A. Holman, who has been in Mel-
bourne on High Court business, dropped in
to see some of his Federal and State
political friends. He gave them the impres-
sion that he likes the cha,uge.
Melbourne will hold all the Premiers at
this week-end. They are assembling for a
conference to last three days. Storey is
bringing colleagues Lang, Loqghlin and Cann
with him. Each of the other heads or act-
ing heads of Governments will be accom-
panied by at least one Minister. Lawson
will preside and see that the visitors are
well fed. Hughes and .Tocook will attend
when invited. On May 2(1 the whole con-
tingent will help to greet the Princelet.
Artist Norah Gurdon, who is looking out
from this little photograph, has just returned
from strenuous war
work. She is a
daughter of Dr.
Durdon, and was
one of the first of
the Australian
V.A.D. girls who
paid their own pas-
sages oversea. Her
brother Edwin went
down in the first
terrible fighting, and
Nor ah hurried to
help his mates. She
spent most of the
time working hard
in France at the
V.A.D.’s minor in-
glorious jobs. Still,
she found time to
make many sketches,
and she put in solid work at her art on
the way home, which lay through America.
Her sketches and paintings are being shown
this week at the Athenaeum Hall. The
exhibition opened on Tuesday, and is well
worth an hour cribbed from the trying-on of
dresses.
The Naval and Military Ball, to be held
in the Town Hall on Friday, June 18, will
assist several charities—the Truby King
Baby Welfare, the Soldiers’ Widows and
Orphans’ Fund, and the Friendly Union of
Soldiers’ Wives. Lady Helen will be too
busy to attend (the Prince leaves Sydney
the day before the ball), but she has bought
five tickets to give away.
Dr. O’Hara’s daughter, Mrs. Rowan, who
died with tragic suddenness of ’flu last year,
left a young daughter, Sylvia. She is only
in her early teens, but is hurrying to put
up her hair in order to d6b. during the
Prince’s visit. Mrs. (Dr.) Barry Thompson
will mother her. That large and comely lady
will lend her other wing to, Gwen Fuller
from Sydney.
Frank Keane, the new president of
Old Xaverians, served as a captain-surgeon
in the war and won the M.C. He relin-
quished a good practice in Hawthorn to go
to the Front, but has been picking it up
again since his return. He has added a wife
and child to his assets since the Kaiser was
hunted into Holland.
Presumably because two of his sons have
gone through the law course brilliantly, and
are now practising, James Menzies, member
for Lowan, Irvine’s old constituency, has
been appointed a member of the Uni. Coun-
cil. Menzies made his pile as a storekeeper
at Jeparit before entering Parliament. He
is chairman of the Railway Standing Com-
mittee, having got back to that job again
after letting Dick Toutcher have a year or so
at it.
Mrs. Tom Smith is mourning the sudden
loss of her handsome eldest daughter, Mrs.
Mclntyre. The pair landed back in Aus-
tralia only this month, after six years in
the Cold Country.
Ghosts of departed revellers of the days
when the Australian Caf6, Collins-.street, was
“The Vienna,” must have viewed with wist-
ful sadness the scene set there for the
handing over of £747 to Charlie White, late
manager of the Swanston-street branch of
the London Bank. Over a hundred busi-
ness men and a few women saw the deed
done. There was no doubt as to the high
esteem in which the guest was held; yet the
affair was allowed to pass off without one
salute of a popping cork, and when the con-
gregation sang “For He’s a Jolly Good Fel-
low.” the orchestra came home on the bit
with an advantage of about three bars. It
can’t be done as a bone-dry anthem. There
were several veterans of the business world
present who can’t pipe up on less than
three.
Here is Elizabeth Nash-Boothby’s impres-
sion of Ivy Philips, who is taking her voice
to London after a big
farewell to-night. Ivy.
who is an Adelaide
girl of Welsh descent,
owns a mezzo-
soprano that en-
ables her to warble
Carmen, Delilah and
other exacting rf>les
without skidding at
any point in her
register. She admits
that she has the
operatic tempera-
ment and hopes she
will get a chance to
prove it abroad. The
clever girl is going
away at the instiga-
tion of Mrs. Dryce-
son Trehearne, who
has hopes of the songstress finding a queue
of impresarios on her doorstep after her
first voice-trial.
Stunning Mrs. Harold Parkes, who used
to be stunning Rosie Wilson, of Bonnie Vale,
is off to the U.S. with her husband and
daughter Chandra.
Adelaide watches the crowd:—
The Adelaide Cup meeting opened in nasty, blowy
weather, so the frocking was warm rather than
smart. On the second day the long-expected rain
descended in such quantities that the only garments
seen on the course were waterproofs and serviceable
hats and boots.
Clara Serena and Roy Mellish—he doubles the
parts of husband and accompanist—are back home
after touring India. Clara is a handsome song-
bird, but Roy Would do well to visit a barber.
Adelaide is being rather rushed by visiting
musicians. Edward Goll has been delighting appre-
ciative audiences, and Amy Evans and Fraser Gauge
arrive next week to give a series of concerts.
Presently two local singers, Audrey Wells and Clif
Lathlean, who have been studying at Melba’s
conservatorium, are to give a recital, assisted by
pianist Maud Puddy. Audrey has a mezzo of
singular sweetness and purity, and Clif a fine
baritone.
The Frank Fishers gave a dance on Friday night
to introduce son Guy’s English wife. About 80 of
our naicest young married couples, with a sprinkling
of odd men and girls, spent a very cheery time.
The bride is a pretty young thing with a good
complexion, and wore black and white.
Graceful little Maxine Tolley asked a youthful
crowd to a coming-out dance the same night. Several
other pretty flappers turned their hair up for the
event, which was an uncommonly jolly one.
Vernon Drew, one of three athletic brothers who
took to medicine, died at Alberton last week, of
pneumonia. They were sons of the Methodist Thomas
Drew, who from stores at Burra supplied the back-
country as far as Broken Hill and the Queensland
border.
The youngest of the Fitzroy Somersets, an affable
young man of 27, has arrived at Adelaide to join
Governor Weigall’s staff. His father is the third
Lord Raglan; his great-grandfather was the Penin-
sular veteran who commanded the British army in
the Crimea. The Captain himself—he is a captain
as well as an Honorable—fought in the retreat from
Mo ns and subsequent campaigns, and was more than
once wounded. Afterwards he went to Mesopotamia
with Kermit Roosevelt and some others.
Lucille Benstead, who was born away up at Alice
Springs, intends re-visiting her native country. Since
1910 she has been prospering in the English halls.
Ethel Waddell, of Murrumbeena, who
served as a war nurse and is the eldest
daughter of the late W. J. Waddell, is the
bride chosen by Hugh Campbell. Honorary
Minister, in his second matrimonial venture.
They are to sign up at Murrumbeena on
June 9.
• Nancy Robins and Norman Price have an
altar engagement. Nancy is the daughter
of Robins, of the Mint. He and his sweet-
heart celebrated their silver wedding on the
day the engagement Avas announced.
Dorothy Tate, the scholarly daughter of
the Director of Education, changed her name
to r Tait last week, helped thereto by th«
young man’s father, the Rev. George Tait.
of the Kew kirk. The ’groom, who has war
service to his credit, holds the Diploma of
Education, and the bride, like father and
mother, proved herself an expert teacher.
Captain Rowe and his small, fluffy bride
are back from honeymooning, and have a
snug flat at Franklyn House, South Yarn.
Lieut. Cave Clarke, just home, has brought
a bride. She was Miss Chesney, a niece
of the late Samuel McCaughey. Mrs. Ches-
ney, sister of Sam, accompanies her daughter.
They are all installed in a suburban flat!
being unable to get shelter in any of the
crowded city taverns.
Gaud Mayor Aikman talks about shifting
the Town Hall to another site. Such spots
as the Melbourne High School ground, with
reserves stretching down from Victoria-
street to Federal Parliament House front-
age, and the Haymarket land close to the
University, could be obtained, but they are
out of the way, and nothing is likely to be
done. The mere suggestion of removal has
made lots of people indignant. Didn’t the
pioneers select the site? Well—doesn’t that
settle it? One thing, the Council has or can
secure plenty of space where it is. It owns
the coffee-palace site next door to the Town
Hall and the adjoining Athenmmn can be
got at a price.
Blind Soldiers’ Dpy in Melbourne, held on
Thursday, had cold east winds to contend
with. Blind boys on lorries at kerb stands
tried not to shiver as they worked at baskets
and other weaving jobs; blind carpet-
weavers interested harried householders who
are paying horrible prices for imported stuff;
and other workers were making hand-loom
tweeds. Perhaps the pitiable exhibition was
necessary to remind Melbourne of the way
these sorely afflicted men are battling against
their infirmities; but the sightless eyes
and the sensitive hands in the raw chill
wind were a heartbreak.
Brig.-Generals Brand and McNicoll are in
the running for the vacant Police Coinmis-
sionersbip.
P.M.G. George Wise has started to paint
the town red before the arrival of Edward
Windsor. At any rate, his retainers are
slapping the vermilion on to the postal
pillars.
The Verbrugghen Beethoven Festival
roused a storm of musical enthusiasm every
night of last week, with a matinge throwu
in, and the Town Hall packed to the doors
every time! The G.-G. and Lady Helen
made a second visit on Friday night, and
were ushered in with a very special blast of
God Save.
The great little musician has made a dress
regulation for the girls in his orchestra.
Party frocks are taboo, and the darlings wear
black dresses with white vests, to blend
with the conventional crow plumage of the
men. It makes a black-and-white harmony.
Avith the bronze of the three big copper
drums glowing on the steps above.
Benno Scherek is back from a Maoriland
tour. Mrs. Scherek had to abandon the
trip at the last moment ovving to illness.
She was for weeks in hospital with heart
trouble, but it was by a smiling convalescent
that little Benno was welcomed home.
Sutton’s new Singola Hall is a fine place
at the back of the Bourke-street music-shop,
and is charmingly decorated. It was opened
melodiously with a sort of drawing-room
recital. Jessie Shmith (yes, that’s right)
w T as contralto to Lucy Adkins’s soprano.
Baritone Frazer and tenor Hooke joined in
the sing-song, and ’cellist Rultand and
violinist Hames sawed sweetly. Mr. Lsav
Avorked a combination of a piano and a
phonograph (the Singola—now you’ve got
it) with extraordinary effect. Caruso sang
to a piano accompaniment supplied right
there in the room, and Mischa Elman played
his violin Avith a local accompaniment.
The parish paper issued from Toorak’6
toniest church put it this way:—
The Rev. C. L. B. Glayslier was married on Mon-
day, 19th, and he has sufficiently recovered to be
able to undertake duty at Yarra Glen.
As usual, not a word about the lady.
When the Prince visits the University he
will see it without its students, for the
“shop” authorities have decreed that the
undergraduates at large shall not be admitted
to the reception. Members of University
committees and a certain number of
returned-soldier students to act as a guard
of honor are alone to be present. This un-
popular decision has been made “to prevent
any boisterous behavior on the part of the
students.” But if what we read about young
Wales is true, he would rather receive a
characteristic welcome from the undergrads,
than illuminated addresses from the profs.


Born 1820
—still going strong
Sr
T>
V V
a
3
£
s
i
/
Ss
£7
4w
Eos?
S
*©
7
?
‘“You can take a horse to the water but you cant make him drink/ ”
“ That would not apply to the man who knows the merits of
4 Johnnie Walker
JOHN WALKER <5: SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland.


Royal
Warrant
ƒg
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
«H»MPAGNt
'^arfcsllfidsiecfc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents-
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
“Join the National Roads Associa-
tion ( N.8.W. )”
FOR YOUR FORD.
Endorsement of the L. and R.
Auxiliary Oiler as a valuable fitment
to a Ford Car by one owner would
prove nothing.
Endorsement by one hundred owners
would prove little.
But when thousands of Ford owners
throughout Australia consider this
patent saves their Connecting-rod
Bushes, and Reduces their Lubricating
Oil Bills, surely it is worth your
knowing more about it.
Why not write us to-day for fuller
particulars?
Your local garageman will also tell
you of its utility.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett SBarkell Limited
“The Traders’ Service House,”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
\miiyJrmr
The d tinct qualify in ~
Vanity Fair Silk G oves—
the i aceful lin 8. eas/ fit,
refined beaut/ and real service
given commend them to every
woman who takes pride in her
*love3.
W.th Vanity F ir Gloves
you get a guaiantee of ion 3
wear ana rea* economy, yet
you pay no mor for them.
Ask for th m at your
Dr.iper’c.
v.r.9
muiumuiiMH,,
f
Ladies* Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Our Prince
is Coming!
That is
why Miss
Australia
is so busy
making
preparations,
liut her
gowning ?
She leaves
it all
to Shave.
She knows
that in
Shave robes
she can-
not look
other than
adorable.
SHAVE,
Centreway»
Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Musicians had a social flutter last
week when Benno Moiseiwitsch was given
the keys of the city of Sydney. Five
o’clock on Wednesday saw the party, but as
the Verbruggben Orchestra is away and the
hour was late for musicians who have to
keep an eye on ferry and train time-tables
to get back to town by eight, the meeting
was not so large a one as greeted Benno’s
wife, professionally Daisy Kennedy, when,
in green and amber, something like a new-
blown daffodil, she dropped in on Sydney one
spring morning last year. Daisy was, for-
tunately, well enough to stand in putty-
colored tailorings, with that same barbaric,
Tartar-like necklet of amber (it looks as
though it might have been looted from a
Thibetan monastery), and radiate happiness
at the side of her husband. He has eyes
that seem as though they were glimpsing a
vision in a far place; and those at the party
who, earlier irl the afternoon, had heard him
pouring out his soul on his 800-guinea instru-
ment, do not wonder at it. De Cairos Rego
sponsored the intros., and was assisted by
President Gordon Havers; and society and
art elbowed one another in the big room at
Farmer’s. Mrs. Alec Hay and Dr. Stewart
McKay were neighbors of the showmen
Taits; of Max Selinsky, who is still search-
ing for the divinely-inspired accompanist; of
the Lawrence Godfrey Smiths and artist
Gruner; of Roy Agnew, full of musical
sounds and poetic notions which he intends
to weave into his spring song called “Jaca-
randa.” Mrs. Hugh Ward brought Gladys
Cole; and Gladys Owen brought a red suit
and her 0.8. E.
Benno Moiseiwitsch’s music is a thing of
such pure beauty that it grips the throat. It
is as soul-piercing as a bird’s call through
the stillness of a mountain night. Just be-
fore eight o’clock Daisy Kennedv came
quietly from the back of. the stage and took
her place rather tensely in the audience.
As distinguished-looking a Daisy, but
paler and slimmer, than when Sydney met
her a few months ago; and then just as
the big clock finished booming the hour a
slim, dark young njan came forward and
bowed in a quiet,: workmanlike manner.
Devoid of mannerism, Moiseiwitsch disdains
all “mastery” of the keyboard. He neither
bullies nor harries it nor tickles it to obtain
his effects. It is a beloved comrade to whom
he whispers his aspirations. There is no-
thing of the over-virile in his playing. Rather
is it a white spiritual flame, not exciting the
earthy feelings of his listeners, but wiping
out the scars of life’s disappointments. After
the opening Bach prelude in C Benno had
become quite the rage, so Daisy slipped away
to the back of the stage, like a good little
wife, to whisper her three cheers. Beethoven’s
Apassionata sonata fired an ecstasy of
applause, while Schumann’s poetic will-o’-
the-wisp “Carnival” was played with such a
sense of faery that it might have turned a
profiteer into a Rod Quinn. Palmgren’s
“Bird Song” and the Scriabine “Nocturne”
were other exquisite delights; while the final
Brahms number meeting with applause that
would not be denied, the young man’s fingers
whispered to the kevs. and they sang Men-
delssohn’s “Spring Song.”
The Princeling is to camp at Goldsbrough-
Mort’s Canonbar station, near Nyngan, for
three days, and great are tlie preparations in
consequence. The staff is expected to num-
ber about 40, and six cottages and their
furnishings go up from Sydney to accom-
modate the crowd. The only residents of
the district that are not looking forward to
the show are the’roos, which are being driven
in from the country thereabouts to make a
prince’s holiday.
In the Palace Theatre last Thursday
afternoon the Sunshine Revue collected all of
Sydney with ten-and-six to spend in a worthy
cause—this was to aid the Soldiers’ Enter-
tainments to do better things. The affair
was organised by Mrs. C. Jaques, and the
entertainment would have been quite bright
and audible in alO x 14 room. As it was
the wings and the orchestra of the Palace
got an intimate whisper of what the songs
were about. Mrs. Jaques, by the wav. nearly
became strangled in her own coils before the
performance, what with packing up for her
trip to Japan, selling her house, organising
the revue and trying to make her own frock
-or the incense-burning song and dance.
For the most part the principals looked
quite attractive, mainly owing to the ser-
vices of Flo Young, who was on duty (food-
less) until after two o’clock, hearing Miss
or Madame demand to be made up “just
like yourself, Miss Young.” The choruses
looked well-turned-out and well-nourished
and danced their ABC of steps quite
prettily. The Cheer-o Girls bucked up when
Dorrie Ward's good voice and leadership
held them together in “Dream Boat,” and
Mrs. Bennett White made her Lydy a very
human figure. Edna Saunderson died grace-
fully as the Swan after the second lot of
duck-shot from the wiugs caught her; and
Joyce Silburn was like a leaf blown by an
autumn wind. The vestibule to the dress-
circle was as thickly flowered as a rich
man’s hearse.
Most of society arrived in its best furs
and hat and filled the boxes and the orches-
tral stalls. The new Mrs. Stratton Ferrier
came with her big husband to add weight
to the applause; the Dumaresqs, Mrs. Henry
Hill Osborne, Mrs. Frank Otter, and the
lady in black panne velvet and ermine whose
skirt was cunningly and fascinatingly slit,
leaving the right leg free from ankle to knee
—her stockings were best quality Milanese
right to the top.
The Hon. Lady Hayes arrived by the Or-
monde. Her father was Viscount Lifford,
and she espoused. 40-odd years ago, Sir
Samuel Hayes, elder brother of the present
baronet. The latter married Alice Wilkin-
son, daughter of the well-known Sydney
Judge. The original Ilayes baronet ar-
rived in N. S. Wales as an outcome of legal
difficulty in respect of a ward in Chancery,
and he had a stormy career here one way
and another. As a friend of the Regent
and a notable London Corinthian he never
could be made to see that he was socially
inferior to the middle-class military men at
Government House. He built Vaucluse
House, now a public institution.
Nina Verney, sister of the Walker twins
and niece of Eadith Walker, arrived with
her children at Yaralla last week. Her hus-
band, who was a Chelmsford A.D.C., and
whose sister married one of the Newtons of
Queensland, has been Military Secretary to
the Viceroy of India since 1015.
St. Vincent’s Old Girls’ Union celebrated
its re-formation by a hop at Sargents’ the
other night. Ex-pupils were there in droves,
and many a story was told of the original
old girls’ union, whose principal function
was to make garments for poor children of
the ’Looi Another pretty custom was for
the union to present Mother Prioress on her
Feast Day, not with a picture for her special
sanctum, not a book for her own reading,
but with bundles of clothing for her poor.
So the dance the other evening was a great
success, an oasis of pretty girls in frocks
that did not resolve themselves into ballet
skirts and breast-plates of sequin and jet;
old Riverviews and St. Josephs in great
force to squire the girls; and, best of all,
old memories. AYce-president Nell Casey
(emerging with distinction from a black-net
dress) and treasurers Dorothy Craig and
Miss Hannan will have quite a decent sum
towards buying Noah Websters and Ency-
clopedias for St. Margaret’s, the Catholic
Women’s Uni. Hostel. Its students were
amongst the best and most persistent jazzers
of the evening; and that proves the truth
of the old French proverb that you darice
with your brains.
Here is the Falk
picture of new Pre-
mier John Storey’s
wife, who celebrated
his coming to power
by an illness of
weeks. The lady has
been recuperating at
the Caves, and
arrived home last
week to face the
many social duties of
the season now upon
us. Mrs. Storey has
the gift, invaluable
in a politician’s wife,
of keeping old friends
and making new
ones.
Sydney’s two hundred received cards for
Commander Dumaresq’s party the other night
aboard the Australia. So exclusive was the
affair that not even all the brother-officers
and their wives, it is said, had invites. But
Sydney’s same sweet immortelles and youth-
ful gilly-flowers danced all through the night
on the awning-enclosed quarter-deck. “The
Commander is paying all expenses himself,”
said on- 1 sweet thing who had received a
card. Yes, and did he pay for the hire
of the Australia? And did the bluejackets
in attendance at sea and siphon get over-
time? No little shopkeeper in town would
dare ask one of his hands to work an extra
hour or two without it.
Wellington (M.L.) writes over in a fever
to tell of its first just-like-in-the-Movies
cabaret. It is in dear old family-circle
Courtenay Place, and the organiser has in-
duced the Stout dame to accept the office of
permanent chaperone. It’s # even whispered
darkly that the Prince sLpped away early
from a Naval Ball and had a real night
among the girls, incog., m’dear, of course.
Among the Prince’s Maoriland partners
was one of the pretty and piquant Moon
girls. There’s a whole quiverful of sisters,
each a better-looker than the last ; and
they all whack type-machines for an honest
living. Dad at one time was a head in the
Tourist Department.
If you know the Australia Caf6 and the
Oriental in Melbourne you need no intro, to
Bertha Merfield's work. For in both eating-
houses glow bits of
our own landscape,
our own deep blues
and golds and red-
tinged gums. Wall
decoration is
Bertha’s cardinal sin,
and she longs to
snatch stretches of
sunny beach and
shadowy mountain,
valley and mirage-
haunted plain, and
place them in
profiteer’s hovel and
bricklayer’s palace,
so that they may
become bone of our
bone, flesh of our
flesh, even as the
midday chop or the
evening jazz. The clever Melbourne artist’s
exhibition at Anthony Horderns’ is drawing
well, and among the visitors are several
with the faintest Yankee flavor in their
accent —so faint one suspects the ladies of
hailing from Boston. As well as her designs
for panels and friezes and screens, the
lady shows a number of small canvases
painted with a great eye for color.
“Delphiniums” is a rhapsody in blue, and
“The Garden Path” and “The Tangled
Garden” breathe incense of romance.
In the King’s IThll Leon and Charles
Berliner, two Queenslanders, gave their
clever entertainment on Saturday night.
Leon the elder demonstrated what he
could do at the piano. The young man,
with alert, sunburned face, has a sympa-
thetic friendship with Chopin and Debussy,
and displays a graceful if not very strong
power of composition. Brother Charlie put
on some clever character-sketches.
Ida Dawson, of the Monaro, who really
knows as much about the wattle and the
wallaby as any Australian woman-writer, is
off to join two brothers in the Argentine back-
blocks. And that isn’t so eas.ly done in
these up-ended times. Once you just hopped
on a boat for Maoriland. stc med round
Daddy Horn with Shaw Savill ad hopped
off again at Monte Video. Now —well, Miss
Dawson finds it easiest to go first to S.
Africa and cut across the Atlantic.
“In Fiji,” says a breathless Sunday
paper, “the Prince danced with a white
typiste!"
White as the fleece of Mary’s lamb is she,
And spells her avocation with an e.
A white typiste is she, not blue or green,
Or palely-purple as so oft is seen
About our offices. So rare a specimen is she,
Her color calls for comment, and her job takes on
an e.
Pauline, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
McMorran, of Woollahra Point, cables from
London —where she is under the wing of
Mrs. Thornett, Mrs. Hugh Dixson’s daughter
—that she is engaged to Captain Turner.
Bride-elect is going on a visit to China,
where she will be the guest of Mrs. Tom
Johnson. You remember Tom was once
Railway Commissioner here, and Mrs. Tom
was a Macquarie-street specialist. Pauline
goes next to Spain, then to Nieuport. where
she win be the guest of Commander and
Mrs. Wells, Mrs. Thornett’s sister. Ma
doesn’t know yet if the wedding will be here
or abroad.
Miss Partridge, of Fort-street Girls’ High,
shared an oyster with 200 former pupils and
teachers of her old school. Beside her cover
she found a bouquet of red-and-white blooms
and an autograph-album containing the
names of all the diners. But quite the best
memorial of all will be the Ada Partridge
Prize, which the old girls are instituting to
keep the beloved principal’s memory green.
On this (Thursday) evening the Wade
lady will take under ber wing a dance in
aid of the Ryde Home for Incurables’ nearly-
empty linen chest St. James’s Hall.
Dame Margaret and little lambs Daphne
and Diana will be at College Green next
Saturday for the kick-off of the Uni. fete
for the funds of the Women’s Settlement.
Hon. secs, for same, Flora Eldcrshaw and
T.ilian Wright,
Miss Turner, of the dressmaking at Mark
Foy’s. is to marry .1. J. Smith, of the Firm,
when the borouia blooms again. J.J.’s first
wife was the youngest Foy sister, who fell
in love with him when she was holidaying
in Ireland under the care of Francis. Smith
was then considered the handsomest solicitor
in Dublin. Francis Foy suggested his com
ing to Australia and joining forces with the
firm. He lives in one of the beautiful home»
of Rose Bay with his just-grown-up family
of three.
The final meeting over the Bush Book
Club Ball was a pleasant a'tfair, for after
all the subtractions over £lOOO will go t<>
replenish the bookshelves.
Over a Brisbane tea-table:—
Dr. Danes, mentioned in a recent cable as being
on his way to Australia to become Consul for
Czechoslovakia, is not a stranger here. In 19i0, with
Dr. Domin, he spent several months in Queensland
geologising and botanising. The two men were profe>
sors of Prague University. The scientific brotherhood
here are delighted to learn that Dr. Danes got
through the war safely.
Harrold Clapp, Victoria’s new chairman of Rail-
way Commissioners, married Vivian Noel, daughter
of Judge Noel and a pretty and popular Brisbane
girl. Mrs. Clapp was a clever amateur actress, who
joined Tittell Brune’s co. for an Australian season.
Died lately, Daniel Foley Pring Roberts, solicitor
and good sport. He was the second son of the
late Daniel Foley Roberts, chairman of our first
Leg. Council, and a cousin of Chief Justice Pope
Cooper.
General Birdwood took an afternoon off while he
was here to visit Mrs. Warren White, mother ot
General Sir C. B. White, the Chief of Staff who did
so much to make a little man’s reputation among
the Diggers. Mrs. White is a slender little white-
haired lady who looks 20 years younger than she
is—she is well over 80. The White family gave
'to the A.I.F. a general, a colonel and two DiggVrs.
Judith McConnel, the handsome daughter of the
McOonnels of Cressbrook, was married a few days
ago to A. W. Biggs, a Victorian who enlisted in
Queensland in the 6th L. 11., was transferred to tin
2nd Battalion and won a commission and two severe
wounds.
Tom Leach, who looks after Fenwick’s wool
business, has married Betty Cockburn, the popular
contralto.
Yet another wedding. Marie Love, daughter ot
the hospitable James Loves, of Kedron, has married
Major Boyd, M.C., Irishman by birth and Aus-
tralian by adoption. Dorothy Hawthorn and Jean
Love were two delectable bridesmaids.
The unfailing municipal joke is to be tried on
the Prince when he gets here. He is to be coerced
into planting yet another foundation-stone for the
Town Hall we have been waiting for since child-
hood days. That will make the fourth.
Four-o’-clockers relate that 40 merino maidens
have arranged a ball, to which they hope to lure
Prince Teddy. A few carefully selected youthful
matrons will be allowed in, but will not be per-
mitted to dance. Tickets are five guineas apiece
(some chatterers say eight guineas), and if the
Royal visitor accepts his invitation the vice-regal
ball is to be cold-shouldered and the superior breed-
ing of local Sassiety triumphantly demonstrated.
Eileen Cumrning has left Wanamaker's
for the staff of Vogue, the N’York fashion
journal that illustrates the ladies with the
india-rubber spines.
Well-known C. 11. Delohery is lying seri-
ously ill in his home nt Macleay-street. Sick-
ness has hit the family heavily of late. Son
Corney and daughter Mrs. Thompson are
just out of hospital.
Another on the seriously sick list is Bob
Greig—Beatrice Holloway's plump husband.
He is suffering the agonies of rheumatic
fever.
Pretty and popular Clytie Coffey is tear-
ing herself away from the Naval set, of
which she has been one of the brightest stars,
to join sister and brother-in-law John
Osborne in the Malay States.
Nearly 30 years ago, in Australia's first
great strike, when the shearers’ struggle had
spread to the city, there was a grand pro-
cession of waggons through Sydney all
loaded with “black” wool and driven by
the most heaA’ily-gilded squatters, etc., of
the country. Of course this flamboyance,
which no modern Government would coun-
tenance, produced about the ugliest-looking
clash that Australia has witnessed since
Eureka; and a city S.M., Arthur Money
Fisher, was raised aloft in front of a wool
warehouse at Circular Ouay to read the Riot
Act. For years and years Mr. Fisher has
been out of the public eye; but he entered
it again for a moment this week as his
funeral moved from his old home in Mos-
man to the cemetery that hangs over the
cliffs at Waverley.
Max de Bathe and Pat de Bathe, two
brothers who are well known in Sydney,
were divorced within a few days of each
other in London last month. They were
popular in the local Smart Set a dozen years
ago. Their eldest brother, who has since
succeeded to the baronetcy, created a stir
at the beginning of the century by marrying
Lily Langtry, the Mid-Victorian beauty.
The men from Snowy River wear well.
W. E. Parry-Okeden celebrated his 80th
birthday this month at Goulburn. Born in
1840 at Maranumbla station, on the Snowy,
as a wide-eyed three-year-old he was carried
away from Monaro on horseback by his
father and mother, who were travelling into
Gippsland via Omeo. The Monaro young-
ster grew’ up in the Gippsland wilds at Rose-
dale, his father’s station.


THE PASSPORT TO PROSPERITY.
WHEN some time in the future the chronicler will relate the history of Life Assurance in the Commonwealth,
no more fascinating chapter will be presented than the interesting bonus duel between Australia’s oldest
and youngest Mutual Life Offices, the grand old A.M.P. Society and the City Mutual Life Office.
For fifty years and more the words Life Assurance and Australian Mutual Provident Society had been
synonymous terms.
Not that the old Mutual issued its contracts more expeditiously, was less strict in the selection of its lives,
acknowledged receipt of its premiums more promptly, or paid its claims more quickly than the other well-regulated
concerns —none of these things. The magnet was simply the large bonuses which it paid its constituents. These
bonuses were far and away ahead of those paid by its competitors, and hence it was that the old Society had
become almost a monopoly in the Australian Life Assurance world.
And no one will dispute that the buyer of an article—whether it is an overcoat or a life policy, each equally
protective in its way—is quite justified in getting the best value procurable.
Those in charge of the younger office, the City Mutual, were wise enough to see that the passport to prosperity
was large bonuses. But large bonuses are not the creation of a day, or a year, or of ten years for that matter.
The City Mutual knew this. So it carefully limited its new business for years and years, and just as carefully selected
the new business it did write. It kept its expense rate down, it looked after its renewal premiums, and generally
prepared itself for a long 1 5-years wait to be in a position to offer its members something worth while in the shape
of bonuses.
Then came the historic challenge of 1912 to the A.M.P. Society.
The A.M.P. Gideon smiled at the presumption of the younger office. Had he not many a time and oft, with
his mighty pen, smitten the Midianite Yanks hip and thigh in days of yore? Yea, verily driven them off the field
altogether. Compare bonuses with the* mighty A.M.P. indeed! Ha, ha! But the figures were there, and they were
awkward. It was delicately suggested then by Gideon that a few policies had been picked out by the City Mutual
and special bonuses allotted “for advertising purposes,” and "window dressing” tactics were gently hinted at. Still,
year by year, the respective bonuses were published side by side, and at long last the old pioneer lowered his. colors
and withdrew his age-old proclamation that the A.M.P. was “the largest bonus-paying life office in the Empire."
A perusal of the following figures will repay the inquirer as to which of the two offices now gives its
constituents the best advantages.
Comparison of Bonuses paid in the Year 1920
by
The Australian Mutual Provident Society
(Extracted from The Annual Investigation Report, dated Sydney, 16th March. 1920)
and
The’ City Mutual Life Assurance Society
WHOLE OP LIPE POLICIES. Bonuses added for each €lOO assured and Cash Values thereof
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE POLICIES. Bonuses for each €lOO assure
Daunbir at fio Years of ane or Previous Death
Policies In force for
Comparative Result of Two Policies for €5,000 issued in the Year 1910
One by the A.M.P. Society, the other by the City Mutual Life
Annual Premium of the A. M.P. l’oliey, *l2O 8 4 Annual Premium of the City Mutual Policy, £l2O 0 0
A.M.P.
Society
Year 1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1918
1917
1918
1919
Bonus
80 0 0
90 0 0
92 10 0
103 10 0
108 10 0
93 10 0
96 0 0
57 0 0
104 0 0
115 0 0
Am't of Policy
at End of Year
5,080 0 0
5,170 0 0
5,262 10 0
5,366 0 0
5,474 10 0
5,568 0 0
5,664 0 0
5,721 0 0
5.825 0 0
5,910 0 0
City
Mutual
Life
Am’t of Policy


Learn to Draw.
“ : ‘ i ° There’s Money
The above ,
is the title,
of our book-
let, which
tells about
tlie possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. it
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
Jt explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
ami to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal Vchool of Drawinq',
205 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
*** pmuis
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
FOR WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
Public Notices.
/'I IFT OP LAND-CLEARING INVEN-
V* TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING,”
Griffith, N.S.W.
THROUGH AUSTRALIAN WILDs7 _
Francis Dirties’ 10,000-mile Cycle
Record Cinematograph. Company form-
ing to exploit World’s Rights.
Francis Birtles. who had done more
than most Australians to let daylight into
Australia’s unknown, recently ” completed
a further tour of 10,000 miles, not by car,
but by cycle. In any other country Birtles
would be a wealthy man, but his explora-
tions and the value of his National work is
so little appreciated that a company is being
floated to further exploit his wonderful films,
which as yet have been very little seen in
Australia, and not exploited at all abroad,
where fortunes are being made out of films
not half as unique or interesting. No other
field of enterprise offers better opportunities
for investors. Here is an opportunity to
become a shareholder in All-Australian En-
terprise. It is Australian in its personnel
and Australian in its ambitions. Prospec-
tus and particulars will be forwarded on
application to Francis Birtles Australian
Film Enterprises, G.U.0.0.F. Buildings,
Sydney, pending the opening of Branches
throughout the Commonwealth. [2
mm
WRITE FOR
RUG LIST.
SEND HEIGHT AND
WEIGHT WITH ORDER.
The Perfect
WINTON
The “Winton” stock is one of m.r
thoroughbred saddles, and is without
doubt the most comfortable high-pad
stock saddle made. The flaps in this
saddle are seamed direct on to the
seat, doing away with the usual skirt
and giving a narrow, comfortable non-
chaflng grip. The pads are brought
high up over the stirrup bars and
along the rider’s thighs, giving ncr
feet security to the rider. Made on
our best “Fouriglit” tree and fitted
with solid nickel stirrups, bevelled
leathers and folded girth.
OiK 1 1 A / Fre| Sftit Free for Cash
115/10/-
on the N.S.W. Railway System
Write for our Catalogue and see
The "Long r e a c h,” £l5/15/..
“Boulia,” £l4/15/-; “Kemp ”
p oley, £l3/10/6; “Gayndali”
Park, £l2/5/-; “Bulletin” Stock,
£lO/2/6; and “G.S.” Stock, £B/12/0.
70 saddles in list.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
SADDLE ItS,
393 George St.,
Sydney
tVI
$
J .
M
m
You’ll Still Smell the Dip
in the Wool!
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there—and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin-free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
“Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stores—everywhere
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
ƒ
BETTER THAN AVERAGE SPRINGS-
Can only be made from steels that are above the average.
When you use—
AN “ EAGLE ON A GLOBE ” SPRING STEELS
you are assured of better and longer wearing springs of
the greatest toughness and resiliency.
Stocks include the following sizes: Squares, J, 5-16,
7-16, i inch. Rounds, i, §, 7-16, *, f, IJ, 1J and lj inch.
Also good stocks of Flats in all sizes.
Prices, etc., promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
%&Wte&£lofe Steel C°JH
Makers of Ultra Capital High-speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before —
and prices are undoubtedly going .still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this by using Bostock’s Dressings,
wh’ch PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a brilliant
polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. .Vo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F. 0.0.: Get Ivnibbs’s “Year Book’" and
you’ll have your doubts removed. This country’s
railways are not earning as much as 21 p.c.; that
is to say, not half as much as the new ones are cost-
ing. And the new ones don’t equal the average. The
majority of the lines are not “opening up the coun-
try’’ ; the country many of them serve is losing
population Mnemosyne: Can’t; too dangerous.
Ter A.: The manner is all right; but the matter
might be just a very ordinary lie. In a case of
that kind you’ve got to produce the time and place,
or you won’t be believed... .Alec S.: Dull yarn.
The expected always happens—if you know what to
expect... .J.M.: You (all them the fruits of your
labor. Try us with the cabbages of your idleness. ..
G.M.: “Garrigan” has very bright bits, but it also
tries to work off some old, obvious fooling. You
could easily improve it Biff: Yes, we want bush
bards. But the goods you send don't meet the case.
Margarte: Doesn’t say anything worth saying...
Anne Tagh: Pleasant verse ending in a bad tag....
J.R.A.: Commonplace in very poor verse... .A.T.A.:
Horrible... .W.G.D.: It hasn’t improved in four
years.... L.R.R.: Well, here’s your chance: —
Don’t laugh at others’ downfalls,
Lend them a helping hand.
Help everyone in trouble
Be they black, white or tanned.
Read over what I’ve written.
And read it as you should,
For these lines I’ve written
Are the steps to manhood.
R.S. (Ooogee) : A bit thin Mr. A.: Noah
worked most of that stuff off on Ham Splinter:
You can’t afford to be quite as frank as that unless
you’re a popular woman novelist. .. .Norm. L.: Not
nearly E.A.V.: Doesn’t cause any excitement in
the locality Outre Mer: You must learn to dis-
tinguish between writing a telegram and making
verse Winnanga: Crude stuff in pencil on paper
that has been trodden on by a walrus.... Waan-
yarra: It may be true, but the verse convinces us
that it’s a libel on Australian women Rex B. :
Not up F.G.H.S.: Nice enough stuff for school-
girls, but this paper needs stronger meat M.S.:
The idea in “The Prince” is worth while. Try it
again.... Carmen M.: Gloomy and bumpy and com-
monplace.... lestyn Mai: The sonnet must be better
done.... S.V.D.: “Our Street” good description, but
cheerless verse Oliver B.: “Our Home” is your
top note: —
Oh, why are we as a country bound
To have everything upside down?
In Australia, the best to be found,
Can’t you see we’re going down, down?
Oh! Now look around and see, and see
That we are a nation found;
Ne’er mind the troubles o’er the sea,
Australia’s our home to crown.
Oh ! Then fight, and work for our own,
To keep Australia clean and sweet;
That we may come out full-blown;
So we’ll never know we’re beat.
Australia, Australia’s our dear old home,
Where we ramble and roam ;
We throw our music, and songs in tone,
Then cheer, three cheers for Australia’s loam.
S.H.R.: There's nothing fresh in that prison
camp. The yarns don’t hit us. . . .Secretaire: No.
E.A.11.: “Higher Discipline” hasn’t the quality
May M.: “The Medium” is dull John Ox: Stiff,
conventional verse that doesn’t matter... .W.J.T.:
“Night” fails to get anywhere.. . .R.D.F.: “The
Photograph” misses; but with better handling it
should score.... Mary W.: The verse doesn’t carry
it....M.E.K.: Not for us... .H.P.8.: Poor sort of
verse and a poor example of the sort... .P.M.H.:
Fair for a girl of 15, but the imagination you com-
plain of is not very evident L.W. (Hamilton):
No use in that form G.C.W.: Very lumpy
R.L.J.: Some distance off Tom P.: Sorry; but
there are no evidences of talent Milanion:
Church Vagaries” no use. You’ll have to preach a
lot better than that to draw an offertory here....
Eileen H.: No value D.L.S.: The last stanza has
a delicate beauty:—
So he sits there on a chair,
A spectacle the seeds of gambling has sown,
A victim to the ever alluring snare,
Playing Patience on his own.
. ...A.L.P.: Vers libre when it means dull words
dribbling at irregular intervals down a page has no
more beauty than a dictionary which has been
through a sausage-machine.... Old J.: Not up....
A.M.D.: “To lay like dead leaves.” Why not dead
hens?... .V.H.G.: Seems a lot of fuss about nothing
much L.C.R.: Poor yarn T.R.S.: No use to
us... .F.C.E.: Doesn’t carry the necessary punch. ..
L. : Ditto.. . .The Austral: Travels like a vehicle
with the fourth wheel off Arti: Too crude....
M. (St. Hilda): Not well enough done J.H.:
“The Diplomats” fail.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.McN.: Both sad as a wet Sunday on Glebe
151 and..... W.H.S.: Is the girl at the table supposed
to be a smart diner ? She looks like an unkempt
waitress who will presently be chased back into
the kitchen by the restaurant proprietor. .. ,C. 8.:
Almost as funny as an old bucket-dredge lifting
river silt.... Mrs. M. G.: Your Devil doesn’t look
comfortable in corsets... .W.R.11.-: Wooden wowser
addressing two vaudeville tramps. Don’t want
them A.J.McR.: The girl isn’t bad, but the dis-
torted youth in your patent check suit should be
drowned... .M.McM.: Mother and child stare at each
other with glassy eyes and Mother’s feet are all over
the place... .A.J.M.: Decent stuff. See if you can
improve a bit... .G.L.: No place for the butcher.. ..
A.J.M.: You’ll have to do a lot better than that...
A.C.: That bull has charged before and the human
target has made much the same remark.... Jack S. :
First attempts! There is something very pathetic
about first attempts. Some sighing poet should be
asked to oblige with a wreath of verse G. 8.:
That jest has been dragged across many stages.
“Chev” : W hile British Columbia favors
the Jamaica singer-essence which gives pro-
hibition-dodgers the “Jaky-jazz-jolt” (B.
6/5/’2O), Newfoundland goes strong on van-
illa-extract, which, since prohibition, has
been loaded, on the market in Boz. bottles,
to be letailed at ,jil.r>o each. One witness
admitted taking the contents of an Boz
bottle at one drank, and said he had drunk
over 10 dozen since prohibition came in.
They haven t any more fanciful title for it
than vanilla splurge”; but by any other
name it would land the local inhabitant iust
as uncomfortably in the lock-up. J '


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
A'itb Wireless Telegraphy. Caiines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246. 2,4, 6 Spring Street.
481 o! Sydney,.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 16,
SONOMA.
10,01)0 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking;, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; lion. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Kdwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— AV. V. RALSTON.
1IK.AI) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ....£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq. .
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager : SI. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at I*6 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
SMUTS DRAFTS SUSSSiSmSS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other osual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital •. • • * • £500,000
Reserve Fund
Uncalled Capital .. • •
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
570,000
£1,070,000
125,000
625,000
£1.820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
Drafts "and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. MAKURA. June 3.
R.M.S. NIAGARA. June 24.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago. Niagara Falls ami New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to till Canadian, United States and European uoints.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Cannda, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
Marama, from Wellington, June 8.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, June 3.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
g
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM" SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALKS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £4,039,160
3,200,000
4,639,160
£12,478,320
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George Stree't, Sydney.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert h. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTKFCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
f
3M° ( lbtralta
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking* Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
.JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up £2,462,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
Established 1831.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
lion. Director.
General- Manager:
11. 11. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birehin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London Count?' Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
INTERSTATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
Steamer.
WANDILLA. (Sat.,
j May 22.
CANBERRA. |Tues.,
(Melb. only.YMay 2
Sails from I Sails from I
Sydney. (Melbourne! Sydney Agents.
| Wed.,
j May 26
KAROOLA..
Sat.,
May 29,
Wed.,
June 2.
(Adelaide Steamship
I Co., Ltd.
(Tel. 9520.)
Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd.
(Tel. 6221.)
Mcllwraith,
McEaeharn Line,
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA. MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•PARINGA..
WODONGA..
tCANBERRA
Sat.,
May 22.
Tues.,
May 25.
Sat.,
June 5.
Sat.,
May 22.
| Adelaide Steamship
! Co., Ltd.
I (Tel. 9520.)
lA.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
I (Tel. 10684.)
Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd.
| (Tel. 6221.)
•For Brisbane, Townsville and Cairns only.
fCanberra omits Bowen and tranships at Townsville
for ports as far as Cairns.
FOR lIOBART.
i ULIMAROA. iTues,
I IJune 1,
iHuddart, Parker,
I Ltd. (Tel. 9508.)
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnlfloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailiogs
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Bydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 0500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
1 a more extended tour can travel by fe.S. “Amra,’’
I which connects at Suva.
I For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful TVeed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. fid.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. fid. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Addr
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing; Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited,
ltlacklieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide. Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane


err
tl
m
ra
"T.
*w.
£3
S& : ,, 5? :
I”,
a
»S :
•j%‘ r* -V ; ';'V
>--v
vJS
IgT
tea*
Tern c =- > n
mmsmmm
HONOR YOUR DOMESTIC HEARTH
OR PERISH.
THE family is the unit of civilisation. It preceded the State, and has
rights of its own which may not he interfered with, Buskin remarks:
“When men do not love their hearth, nor reverence their thresholds it
is a sign they have dishonored both.” Australia having fought for both
hearth and home, is now endeavoring to perpetuate the family, by making
more hearths and homes available for family use. Hygiene, Sanitation and
the inherent good taste of home builders demand
Interior Fittings of Charm, Comfort and Utility
to conform with the above and to be within the high cost of building. A
visit to our Showrooms may enable your appropriation to come well within
the limits of the latter for many of the following:—
Artistic Mantelpieces, Grates and Hearths, Tiled Hearths and
Surrounds, Verandah and Bathroom Tiles, Gas or Electric Light
Fittings, Gas Fires, Electric Radiators and Cooking Appliances,
Fireless Cookers, The Fletcher Russell Gas Cooker, Gas Grillers, Gas
Rings, Enamelled Baths, Basins and Bathroom Sundries, Sanitary
Ware, Laundry Tubs and Coppers, Sinks, Bath Heaters for gas or
wood fuel, Garden Tools, Paints, Stains and Enamels for home use.
Call in and inspect personally—inquiries incur no obligation.
CATALOGUES POSTED FREE.
JoHn DanKs & Son Pty. Ltd.
324 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street), Sydney,
And at Melbourne.
i/VY
£3
Re-created music for the winter evenings.
Just imagine the happiness of sitting around the cosy
fireside and inviting all the best musical talent into your
home at will.
You 11 be able to 101 l back in perfect luxury and listen
to the stars of opera, to have the latest jazz band
# performance, a rollicking comic song, or a soothing
melody, just as the mood inclines.
And the children will be bubbling over with joy a*
they dance and skip to the various airs.
The NEW EDISON
o rings all these delights to your liome—not a mere talking-
machine, but an instrument that actually re-creates the
human voice, or musical instruments, so perfectly and so
truthfully, that, the greatest musical critics have been com-
pelled to admit they cannot detect the difference by actual
comparison.
Yoij should certainly enquire at once for full details of
the New Edison. Illustrated Literature post free on request.
THOMAS A, EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
g
“.4 marvel at the price.”
Bl. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot liitle, 22 calibre. lfdn.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2ilb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
25-
f
"Simple and extra strong in construction.”
JiAU. Winchester Single-shot ltiile, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim lire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, holt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 371in.: head front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b i\f\l
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.) 'JU/«
ƒg
f
B1M. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, bv simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt tvpe, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with tne same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Pitted with plain V-back sight i..,.
Fitted with ladder rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
33/-
38/-
r*
£13 5/-
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
B25. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 calibre, C shot. 20 ! n. round
tapered barrel, take down, weight (Ulb.. muzzle velocity, 2800ft. seconds,
may be used up to 350 yards without changing from point blank
adjustment of sights: soft-nosed, metal-patelied bullets (70 grains) are
-used, giving a striking energy of 1200ft. pounds; carriage paid.
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
ƒ
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy."
BIS. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, lC-sbot. 20in. ftpund barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about oilh. ..
Freight paid,
£6/17/6
ft
w
“EVER READY” mm
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one.
PRICE Bd. POST FREE
gf
“.1 suitable weapon for the boy."
B2. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
{Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
40/.
ƒ
Owe of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
R38. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model lfiA, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel -2
inches. Magazine holds 13 cartridges. Weight oilb ~
Freight paid, 3wJ
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes
Absolutely Water- and Moisture-proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
Sin
g
\Y ith Round Carrel .
With Octagon Carrel
1114. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1802
Model, 25/20-, 32,-, S8-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
.... Freight paid, £8/15/-
Freight paid, £9
B16. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1802 Model,
25 20-, 32-, 3S- or 41-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, __ _
20in. round barrel, weight about 5ilb Freight paid, 3L*/ /xj j O
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
foninonsM
flusTßaua's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
f
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


REXONA SOAP WILL MAKE
YOU HAPPY AND BEAUTIFUL
Mint ESTELLE RAY, a charming Rexona Girl (from
a photo by Sidney Riley).
I have been using; your !
Rexona Soap for some time,
and I think so much of it
I am writing- a few lines to
express my appreciation.
Xot. only do I find it excellent
for the toilet and hath, but
as a shampoo for the hair it
is far superior to any other,
for it makes the hair both,
soft and silky, and seems to
take away every trace of
dandruff.
I have also used your
Rexona; nothing could be
better as a healer. '■
I can truly say 1 am a
Rexona Girl, and wish the
Rexona Remedies every suc-
cess.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) ESTELLE RAY.
J3O Wheatland Road,
Malvern, Vic.
REXONA SOAP GIVES NATURAL
BEAUTY TO SKIN AND HAIR.
That natural beauty of akin aiul hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse; they
cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing;
antiseptic balsams as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment
of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency t~o pimples and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and velvety. Don't forget Rexona
Soap is the Aristocrat of Soaps, unequalled for the toilet,
nursery and bath. Large and lasting tablet, price 1/-.
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
Whq do I uso PLUME?
“Because it enables me to get more
and better service out of my car.
Because it ensures easy starting,
sweet running, more miles.”
That is the answer thousands of
motorists would give to the ques-
tion, “Why do you use Plume?”
Plume users speak highly of the
results obtained, and our files con-
tain very flattering testimony of its
efficiency under varied conditions.
Plume users have been remarkably
successful in recent Reliability Con-
• tests in several States. Full partic-
ulars can be obtained free upon
request to our nearest Branch.
Try Plume next time.
When ordering just ask for Plume
—don’t say Benzine
P 23
-~“V
if
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
¥r%
A
lias ■■.,iVi
■■ < •
ft
■r» fr
...;• I';* in?* ,'
Bißi
ea
A* i
Tender Song for Night
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OFTEN in the moonlight when the
* Night is blinking,
Blinking from her star-eyes
dimmed by floods of light,
I lie well-contented, well-companioned,
thinking
Of the debt I owe her, rare and dainty
Night.
Always I am happy, happy in the night-
time.
Always I am joyous when the world is
still.
Always it is springtime, youth again, the
bright time,
When dear Night soft-breathing lifts me
to her will.
I am never jealous of her other lovers.
Ample is her bosom, ample and serene.
O’er her couch a peace past understanding
hovers;
Other lovers vanish when I kiss the
Queen.
Night, my sister-mistress! Night, my com-
rade-lover !
Those transcendent secrets holy that we
know
Day’s marauding helots never can discover,
Never can delight in, wedded to their woe.
With your lips on mine I mount the heights
eternal,
When your eyes inspire me all my spirit
sings;
Mine's the freehold absolute of joys supernal,
Mine’s the radiant gold of immemorial
springs.
Put your arms about me, Night, and hold
me closer!
Let me drink the beauty of your inner
light!
Purge me of the sins, the uglier and grosser
Sins we have uo liking for, fastidious
Night!
Often in the moonlight, when the Night is
blinking,
Blinking with her star-eyes veiled by
floods of light,
With my arms about her I lie lwppy,
thinking
Of the debt I owe her, grave and dainty
Night.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Lamp of Peace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE Commissary of War paced up and
down the great, gilded chamber which
was the centre and focus of his enor-
mous suite of offices. The palace had once
been the home of a prince, and was one
among many which the Revolution had occu-
pied in the name of the people: and this
huge room had been used for balls of State
—splendid affairs where Empresses had
danced with world-famed statesmen, and
where in shadowy corners under screening
palms some of the great events of modern
history had been shaped. The gildings and
the furniture remained, but the palms were
gone; and in*>the centre had been placed a
plain table covered with green cloth where
a lean, resolute man wrote between bit-
ings of his penholder and where once or
twice a week a council meeting was held
at which generals of the Revolution spoke
direct and simple things under the presi-
dency of the Commissary. The fact that
the Commissary had never held a higher
rank than captain did not interfere in any
way with the exercise of his authority. He
was a man whom the Revolution had found,
a man for the hour,-devoted, honest, tact-
ful and with an infinite capacity for details.
But now the Commissary himself realised
that the Revolution was in danger. The
agents of the monarchists had been busy
for months; the people were impatient be-
cause all promised reforms had not been
carried into effect in a moment; hundreds
of self-seeking adventurers were indignant
because the heads of the movement had
been opposed to indiscriminate plunder;
dozens of Revolutionary officials were ready
to join in any plot that might keep their
own doings while in office from impartial
investigation. It was a critical hour; and
while everything hung upon a decision in
the field the Commissary of War knew that
the Revolutionary ranks were thinned by
desertion, and that in point of munitions
the reactionaries had a- distinct advantage.
The general now in command could be
trusted, but there were very few really able
men under his orders in whom a like con-
fidence could be placed.
Twice in the midst of his pacings to and
fro the Commissary turned to the large
map hanging slightly askew on the gilded
wall, and twice he turned away from it
with a clenching of his hands and a ges-
ture of impotence.
Suddenly he stood stock-still in the middle
of the room and thrust his hands deep into
his trousers pockets. A moment he stood
thus; then with an air half-reckless, half-
despondent, he drew a coin from his pocket
and spun it in the air. The coin fell with
a dull thud on the padded floor, and the
Commissary set his foot on it.
“Heads I give this crazy idea a chance,
tails I rely on General Soapkin and his
wooden-beaded strategy.”
He drew his foot away and picked up
the coin.
“Heads it is,” he cried, and went slowly
to the table. He looked at his watch —a
plain thing in a tin case—and compared it
with the clock at the end of the room. Then
he pressed the bell.
The summons was answered by an old
man in the uniform of the Purple Guards.
“There is a man called William Smith,
English or American or perhaps Australian,
who was to come here at this hour.”
“He is waiting below,*’ said the grizzled
soldier.
‘‘l will see him ; let him come up.”
The Commissary drummed his fingers on
the table wh.le he waited ; and in a couple
of minutes the soldier returned and an-
nounced William Smith.
The inventor came into the room heavily.
He carried under his arm a small box which
he laid on the floor; then he clumped for-
ward to the table The Commissary motioned
him to a chair.
“This invention of yours,” he said
abruptly and without further greeting,
“what is it worth?”
“Ten million pounds,” said the inventor
promptly.
“Yes, yes; but I do not mean the price—
that can be fixed later.”
“No fear,” replied William. “That can
be fixed now. This little machine of mine
—I can turn out eight dozen of them in a
week —is worth a million soldiers. Even
in this country soldiers ought to be worth
ten pounds a head, so the idea is worth ten
millions of anybody’s money. Seeing that
your Revolution is a hit short of ready cash
I offer you the whole affair, lock, stock and
barrel, for fifty thousand, cash; the cash
to be paid as scym as I prove that it does
its work.”
“Very well. then. Let us take that ns a
basis; the money will be paid if it can
do its work. You said you were ready to
prove this by experiment.”
“Here and now,” said the inventor, and
clumped heavily back to his box. His boots
seemed to be several sizes too big for him.
“Are you ready to he experimeuted upon?”
“You guarantee that there is no danger?”
asked the Commissary a little anxiously.
“Danger! The thing wouldn’t hurt a
rabbit. Why, it wouldn’t even hurt an
Anglican curate; and that’s a tender enough
herb.”
# The Commissary seemed a little uncer-
tain still; then he suddenly smiled. Per-
haps he remembered the toss of the coin;
and so many things turn on less than the
toss of a coin in times of Revolution.
“Very well,” he said, “what must I do?”
The inventor took a small gun that looked
like a toy from his box and brought it to
the Commissary.
“Are you a good shot?” he asked.
. “Tolerable.”
“Well, you don’t need to be more than
tolerable to hit that big panel on the wall
at 12 feet. This gun only fires rubber pel-
lets, but each of them makes a mark. There
are 20 in the magazine. You stand here
and fire off the 20 and see how many times
you hit.”
“But I can’t miss at that distance.”
“Never mind whether it’s easy to hit or
not. Try it. This is part of the experi-
ment.”
The Commissary moved up to the mark,
set the little gun to his shoulder and pulled
the trigger.
Immediately, with a slight hissing sound,
a stream of pellets came from the gun, and
rebounding from the panel of the wall left
a circle of white marks dotted over a space
of about a foot.
“That proves the gun’s all right,” said
the inventor.
“But I don’t understand.”
“You will in a minute. Rome didn’t fall
in a day, but this army you’re up against
will.”
He reloaded the gun and handed it back
to the Commissary; then he brought a small
lamp to the corner of the table, focused it
upon the spot where the other was standing
and lighted it. The ray from the lamp,
which was of a faintly green color, was too
weak to do more than struggle against the
strong white light from the great windows.
“Now,” said the inventor, “to prove my
case I’ll lay you fifty thousand pounds—the
price I’m asking for this lamp—that you
can’t put one pellet into that panel when
I turn this little screw. If you get one
shot home I pay you fifty thousand; if you
don’t you pay me fifty thousand and take
the best anti-war goods ever invented. Is
that fair?”
The Commissary frowned a little. He felt
he was wasting his time; but, after all, that
coin had turned up heads.
“Ready?”
“Yes.”
“Go.”
The inventor turned a .screw, and the
green light increased. At once the Commis-
sary burst into a loud laugh, dropped his
gun, stooped to pick it up again, and in
stooping held his sides and laughed still
more. He grasped the gun in a shaking
hand, but could not lift it for sheer merri-
ment. He sat on the floor with the barrel
between his knees; his shoulders shook and
the tears rolled down his face. But he
somehow pulled- the trigger, and the pellets
flew in all directions. Ten hit the gilded
ceiling, three landed on separate windows,
a couple struck the legs of the table; and
as the Commissary, still convulsed with
laughter, struggled to stand on his feet four
made white marks on the floor. The last
pellet actually struck the inventor himself
on the hand. Then the gun fell to the
ground, and the Commissary followed it and
rolled gasping in a perfect agony of mirth.
The inventor again turned the screw of
the lamp.
“How is it?” he said.
The great official of the Revolution slowly
rose wiping his face with his handkerchief.
For the moment he was too dazed to reply.
The two men stood facing each other.
“I’ve won my fifty thousand,” said the
inventor.
“Do you mean to say your lamp will do
that to an army?” There was a note of
genuine admiration in the Commissary’s
voice.
“More than that. This is only a little
bit of parlor magic. The big lamp is my
peace artillery.”
* * * «
The story of the three days’ struggle on
the Baas River is now told by every school
historian, and many are the variations of
the tale; but the main facts are beyond all
(Continued on next page.)


MAK
BAG
STRONG!
In these trying days we need every ounce of strength and the
ability to do a full day’s work every day. The man or woman with
weak kidneys is half crippled. A lame, stiff back, with its constant
dull ache and sharp, shooting twinges, makes the simplest task a
burden and a full day’s work impossible. Headaches, dizzy spells,
urinary disorders and an “all worn out’’ feeling are daily sources of
distress. You can’t afford to neglect kidney weakness and make it
easy for gravel, dropsy or incurable kidney disease to take you. Get
a bottle of DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They have
helped many Sydney people. They should help you.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
A NORTH SYDNEY RESIDENT.
Mr. John Simmons, 7 Bank Street. North Sydney,
says:—“For some years I suffered dreadfully from
serious kidney trouble. The agony I had to bear was
at times awful, and can be better imagined than
described. I was under several doctors, but their
treatment did not benefit me very much, and I would
soon be as bad as ever again. A friend of mine heard
of a wonderful cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
so urged me to try these pills, and I decided to do so.
After taking one bottle I felt very much better, and
as I kept on with them the improvement was main-
tained until finally I was completely cured, and I
have not had a sign of kidney trouble since. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills have my Ipearty recommenda-
tion, and I hope many will benefit by my experience
and give them a trial.”
Three years later Mrs. Simmons says:—“My hus-
band has had no return of his old complaint since
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him some time ago.”
A SURRY HILLS RESIDENT.
Mrs. H. Sturgeon, 70 Marlborough Street. Surry
Hills, Sydney, says:—“lt gives me great pleasure to
say a few words in praise of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. For a good while I was a martyr to kidney
trouble*, the symptoms being backache, urinary dis-
order and dizzy attacks. My back ached fearfully
and every movement was accompanied with a twinge
like the stab of a knife. The secretions were cloudy
and scalded a good deal in passing, this symptom
clearly showing my kidneys were very much out
of order. I heard good reports of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, so decided to give them a trial. The
first bottle* gave me relief and by the time I had
used three bottles I was cured, and I have been well
ever since, a period of over twelve months.”
Mrs. Sturgeon confirms the above four years later:
“My cure still holds good, no sign of kidney disorder
having returned since I took Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills five years ago.”
"Every Picture
Tells a Story n
U
<:■
'a
V*
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9
per bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
fg
f
Backache
Kidney
ƒg
f
dispute. Every schoolboy knows how the
great army of the monarchists advanced
under the command of Comebackski through
the Baas Woods and made contact with the
small force of General Soapkin near the
upper fords; how the sudden and .strange
malady which at once incapacitated every
regiment seemed to move from hill to hill
and valley to valley more rapidly than even
the wind could carry the germs of infec-
tion ; how the Revolutionary enemy, igno-
rant of the state of affairs on the opposite
ridges, failed to take advantage of the posi-
tion and disarm its helpless opponents; and
how at last the tables were turned by the
advance of three heroic brigades of veterans
over 70 years of age who had enlisted at
the call of honor, never dreaming that their
services might be required. The march of
the ancients has been widely celebrated in
song; but there are some authorities who
ascribe their success not to personal valor
but to their wonderful immunity from
attack by the germs of the prevailing disease.
'What the schoolboy does not know is that
William Smith and the Revolutionary Com-
missary for War sat for three days in
an upper room of a deserted farmhouse and
directed the ultra-green rays of the anti-
war lamps against the distant landscape. As
they did so the mild west wind brought to
them a low thunder as of a distant surf.
If was the laughter of three hundred thou-
sand men who rolled and shrieked in pro-
longed outbursts at what seemed to be the
jest of the ages. Aeroplanes soared over
the hills and brought back full reports of
the mirth that was destroying the reaction-
aries as a fighting force; and on the second
day General • Soapkin was ordered to retire
on the nearest line of hostelries and allow
his forces to taste the fruits of bloodless
victory.
On the third day the aeroplanes brought
an account of fresh troops to the number
of several thousands which were said to
be advancing slowly towards the fords in
a cloud of whiskers.
“Let them come,” said William Smith.
“We’ll let them get up close before we turn
on the artillery. These must be the last
reserves, and you can count the Revolution
pretty safe.”
The Commissary smiled from the table
where he was dealing with .some urgent
documents that had just reached him.
“The Revolution is safe in a double sense,”
be said. “1 foresee the great advantage of
your invention in dealing with refractory
members of our party as well as our ene-
mies.”
“Pretty useful for elections, you think,
eh?”
Before the Commissary could answer, the
field telephone rang, and he placed the
receiver to his ear.
“Yes. Hello! Within half a mile of
the fords, you say? Yes. Tnanks. That
will lie all right.”
He hung up the receiver.
“The new reinforcements are almost at
the fords. We should be able to see them
with the glasses.”
“Right-oh. You have a look at them. 111
turn on the tickle. Can you see them?’
“Quite plainly. They are coming straight
towards the river.”
"Right. I’ve got the spot. That should
set them smiling, llow are they now?’
The Commissary continued to look through
the glasses.
“I can’t understand it. They are stand-
ing in even ranks on the river bank. Have
you the focus right?”
William Smith seized a second pair of
field-glasses and surveyed the new army.
“The light’s right on them,” he said, "and
they haven’t started a giggle.*'
"Something gone wrong with the lamp,
suggested the Commissary.
William Smith looked puzzled.
“I’ll try it on those bullocks on the side of
the hill,” he said.
“Yes, yes, it's quite effective,” said the
Commissary. “Now who would have thought
that? The bullocks are actually dancing.”
“Yes, it takes them that way. Bullocks
dance, cats do handsprings, dogs chase their
own tails; it gets the peculiar sense of
humor iu all the animals according to their
nature. The only thing I could never do
anything with was an old parrot, but they
said he was over a hundred,”
“Wonderful! But these new soldiers, whjj
were they not affected?”
"I’ll give them another tickle.”
Both the Commissary and William Smith
looked long and earnestly through their
glasses, but what they saw surprised them
more than the dance of the bullocks. The
enemy came right on in spite of the ultra-
green rays.
For an hour—a precious hour which no
subsequent action could retrieve—they
struggled with the apparatus, making des-
perate efforts to stop the advance.
At last the Commissary, in real conster-
nation, tried to communicate with General
Soapkin. The distant rattle of rifle-fire was
heard. The field telephone rang madly to
tell of imminent defeat. Nobody could find
General Soapkin. The few Revolutionary
soldiers left on the field had been over-
powered.
Quite unreasonably the Commissary turned
on the inventor.
“Your green lamp.is no good! It has
destroyed the Revolution. I should have
trusted to the old ways. War is not to be
waged by parlor tricks.”
“The lamp is all right,” said William
Smith sadly. “I ought to have known. It’s
the old men—the old men with all the
humor burnt out of them.” '
The Commissary bit his lip.
“You're right,” he said. “The world
would laugh its way to reform but for the
old men. Hello! The artillery has started.”
“Let them all start,” said William Smith
despondently. “Turn out the lamp and let
dodder have its way.”
And in the explosion that tore the farm-
house to fragments the secret of the lamp
of peace was lost to the world.
GEORGE STREET.
The Row.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MAY was weeping, weeping bitterly,
and the tears made little white roads
in her complexion. A knot of men
clustered at her end of the bar talking wildly,
and the flies, disturbed by their clamor,
buzzed through the gloom. The row was
on.
“You shouldn’t have said that,” sobbed
May; “you know you shouldn't.”
There was a mutter of indignation and en-
dorsement of this opinion from the group,
and, to conceal his emotion, a man left by
the side door.
“Anybody who insults May’ll have to deal
with me,” declared the thin man with quick
heat. This remark was also greeted with
a buzz of approval.
“Quite right, Jack,” said somebody.
Jack was encouraged. He put himself
into a fighting attitude and prepared to en-
gage the air. Then he changed his mind
and turned upon the chap with the red
moustache.
“Anybody who insults May’ll have to deal
with me!" he repeated, thrusting his face
towards the red moustache. The owner of
the hair shrank away, and raised a thin
voice in protest.
“I didn’t,” lie wailed, but his words were
drowned in the angry seething, like yeast
rising from a huge bottle. May rolled her
handkerchief into a tiny limp ball and dabbed
her eyes.
“Don’t make a scene, Jack,” she begged,
ller defender was still thrusting his nose
beneath the red moustache.
“ ‘Live and let live' ’s wot I say,” An-
nounced the man with the dirty collar, lie
turned the thought over carefully to get the
full taste of its wisdom. “ ‘Live and let
live’ — always!” he repeated with unction.
“Anybody who insults May”
“Don’t make a scene, Jack!”
A small man in his shirt sleeves with a
faded umbrella beneath his arm and a little
dog on a string came into the bar. He
looked with placid eyes upon the turmoil.
"I’ll ’ave a beer, miss,” he remarked.
Nobody took any notice of him.
“I’ll stick up for May, I will, never you
fret,” Jack roared.
The lady urged him not to make a scene.
“ ‘Live and let. live,’ ” said the man with
the tarnished collar, and then as an addi-
tional commandment, an extension of the
gospel, “always!”
“This is all very well, miss—l want a
beer,” wailed the man with the insignificant
dog. He drummed on the counter with small,
short fingers, impotently, but With the per-
sistence of rain. lie was unmoved and un-
moving in all that play of human passion.
Jack edged closer to the red moustache and
lifted his fists again. May screamed
shrilly—like a damned express train rushing
through the gates of Hell. The barman
dashed iu from the outer bar, bursting upon
the gloom with the color of the rising sun.
The man with the absurd dog was stirred by
a sudden hope; his eyes shone with relief.
•I want a beer,” he announced.
The barman brushed past him and joined
the buzzing group.
“What’s all this about ? demanded the
voice of authority.
••Any who insults May 11 have to
reckon with me,” Jack proclaimed un-
daunted. , „ , , ,
“Don’t make a scene, Jack,” pleaded the
lady with the railway-cutting complexion.
The red moustache, in the breath of in-
dignation. trembled like a bowstring.
“ ’E’s hassaultin’ me,” poured from be-
neath it. “Me—and me never hurt a soul!
Me!”
The barman came between them. It was
terrible to see all hope for the human race
wiped from Jack’s face.
“So you’re agin’ her too, eh?” he cried in
horror." “You’d let ’em insult her and you'd
never say a word. You’re as bad as the
rest of e’m—you , you beer-sparrer. Prrr
—you don’t know nuthin’ about how to be-
have with ladies!”
He shaped up to the barman and forgot
tlie red moustache. Authority did not quail
before this show of lawlessness. It merely
loomed up large and pink and contemptuous.
“ Don't make a scene, Jack!”
“Hey, here —what about my beer?”
“Look here, Jack, you can’t make a scene
in here,” said the barman sadly. “You know
1 ain’t agin’ her. If you got anythink
against any ’un, get outside and fight it
out —be a man !”
“You to talk about being a man!” yelped
Jack. “Why, you’re like all the rest of
the”
Then the barman delivered his knockout
blow. “Jus’ on six, only time for one more,”
he said firmly. “One more’n out yous go.’’
Time, the great healer, went to work with
a will and the strife was hushed. May shed
her last tears into the glasses, the red mous-
tache paying for all with the greatest good-
will.
“Here—what about my beer?”
May gave the little man with the inade-
quate dog a glance of contempt and a beer.
The manner in which she jerked the pump
was sufficient reproof for his unwarranted
presence.
“Gorblime!” he spluttered as he emerged,
dripping from the glass. “I bin here about
an hour and now it’s all froth.”
lie took his preposterous dog and his um-
brella and led them out of the unhallowed
place with the air of a man who has suffered
much. The bar emptied the others out
and they drifted across to the rockery to
finish several bottles. The red moustache
got its first chance at a real speech.
“Look ’ere,” said its owner, “I don’t know
wot you wanted ter pick onter me for. Hi
never done nuthin’ —the bloke what told May
off he went out just as the row started.”
“Just what 1 always told you,” said the
man with the distinctive collar. “ ‘Live and
let live.’ ”
DALE COLLINS.


«
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE
AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathers ton Street, Wellington.
Vlotorlan Office—BB Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home, it
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
Xo Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wh Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rranehps in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
Sin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
I&C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Cast Iron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches,
Condon Pattern Blocks, etc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses—4lB-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane. Works—Yeerongpilly.
(Trams pass near by.) ri
MOTOR/LORRIGS
Scientific Supremacy.
A WELL-KNOWN fact of Denby
supremacy is the zealous care exercised
by its builders that each Lorry shall
meet the exact conditions under which it is
to be used. For every haulage problem there
is a Denby Lorry to solve it.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2\, 3j, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
BE PERSUADED
to try Beeeham's Pills! All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that “ Beeeham’s
Pi Is are Worth a Guinea a Box ”, This is what people say who have
taken them—who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also.
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of eases—is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you? Beeeham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive mediei ie of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubled all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
SPILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10.}d (36 pills), 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pilla),
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.O., Melbourne
Remjngort
and Pistol
Cartridges
Accurately made and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct function*
ing and maximum accuracy.
{far Shooting Right.
Regardless'of the make or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can supply you with a box of
Remington UMC cartridges—thoroughbreds in every
particular.
Catalogues free upon request.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurfea,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Rook
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
<1
OE-
Thls is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins St„ Melbourne.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Go. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
‘‘Dreadnought”Wire Strainer
!9/fi
1 LIV
cach
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
M
12/6
“L
fiQ &
'• . 'J
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of Ilia
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


Rr OF THE SU
■<- » r 0!
LU
<Ufi.e moits
k^SCHEBUEtt.
QVy
SWANS k
TD
jar
8
* «K»** “.KuVt
r-ii
W L
<<> Rr
M/
OF THE
£3
LU
oJde
. SCHEBLER .
v
ACCESSORIES
FOR THE MOTORIST
& Motor Mechanic
Box Spanners, Jin. to
gin. Whitworth, 18/6
per set; lin. to 9-16 in.
S.A.E.j 18/6.
,v>
Auto. Xilquid Veneer
Sprayer., 10/6 complete.
Steel Tool Boxes, 25/-,
27/9, 30/- each.
£
Absolute Security, Prices: Covered Choi a and
I,ncJc. 10/3 j Uncovered C'hnln and Cock, 7/0.
g
Tubular Box Spanners, Jin.
to lin. Whitworth, 16/9; Jin.
to 2in. Whitworth, 14/6; 7
m/m to 20 in/in, 15/-; for
T’ortls, 6/- complete.
Double-ended Spanners,
sizes from lin. x 5-16 in.
to Sin. x lin.
From 1/6 each.
3
§
Ratchet Box Spanners,, 3-161 n. to Jin.
Whit., In leather Case, 18/6 per set.
iM'i
Electric Head-Lamps for the Ford, 55/-
per set.
Bed Star Tinier; no better
timer exists, 10/6.
The No-Waste
Petrol Filler, 13/6
each.
Mechanical or
Electric Warning
Signals, 20/-, 25/-,
23/6 to 55/- each.
Don’t tour without a Slialer Vul-
caniser, The "Vul-Kit” for any size
tyre or tube* 25/- complete. The
“Ford” size. 21/- complete.
Tapered Driver’s
Cushion, for Comfort
and Durability, 10/- ea.
L
Spark Plug Case, 5/- each.
I
The fitments advertised on this page, at the price,
are absolutely the best of their class. In all cases
we guarantee them to be up to illustration and
specification, and to fully perform the work they
are intended for.
Radiator Caiis for M Different
American Cars, 1/9, 8/-, 4/8, 5/9 ea.
Rotherham
Compression
Cocks, Jin.,
lin. sras, or
spark-plusr
size, 3/3 to
4/- each.
Aluminium
Pistons and
Connecting
Bods "tor
Fords, £ll
per sfet.
iPitcE r'i.'
x~r
The Wonderful Inland
Piston Ring; millions in
use. If your motor is
wasting oil or petrol, if
the compression is poor,
investigate to-day. All
sizes in stock. Those to
33in. diam., 6/6 each.
%
JL
Lifting Jack with Foot-
Lift; as illustrated,
20/-; Plain, 15/-.
Cheaper from 7/6.
ƒg
“The Old Reliable." All widths and thicknesses.
3L3fifc7ft!
5f ttunca OtfirtbcM
CROSS SECT, ON VIEW QTSCHEBIEK STRAftgW
The Best Strainer Made, 15/9 each.
Other makes, 6/6, 8/3, 13/6, 17/-,
20/- each.
5. ft.RLftAs-KJF •mrutae
s
| vE-
TRANSMISSION LININGS FOR FORDS
A “Corking” Good Idea, They take out all Chatter,
«Tars, Jerks and Dither when Gear Engaging, Braking
or Reversing; and, what’s more, last About three
times as long. Price, 17/6 per set of three.
f
$
ƒ
Podge Spark- Lodge Racing
ing Plugs, Plugs, Metric,
Metric, Jin., 10/- each.
Zin., 5/6 each.
Sphinx Mica Sphinx Por-
Plug, Metric, celain Plug,
5/6 each. Metric, Jin.,
Zin., 4/6 each.
The Quick Detachable Ball Ter-
minal. The only Scientific Solder-
less Terminal made. The best of
all. Price Bd. each complete.
Ordinary type 3d. each.
The “Reflex The Ceieb-
Buick" Plug, rated “Cham-
fully guaran- pion X,” 3/6
teed, 3/3 ea. each.
The Famous "Splitdorf,”
“Rajah,” all the Plug with
sizes, 5/6 each the Green
Giant Rajah, Jacket, 5/- ea.
6/- each.
FOR GARAGE MEN.—We keep Phosphor Bronze, White Bearing Metals, Brake Lining, Petrol Fittings, Copper Tube,
Grease Cups, Lubricators, Piston Ring Castings, Hand and Bench Tools of all Descriptions. Our Service is reckoned
the best in town. Our prices are most attractive. Country Buyers, send your business-card along and our reply will be
~ most convincing. One trial is all we ask.
NU*
OF THE
o
3.
LU
O
Co
cUde\<SfanL0ii3
. SCHEBLER
SWANS LIMITED
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
mm
Wa
■is
49
’1
lu
- ' WMl
T l 8H„ **•
**»"-•**11' ; K ftiVwjte
Rr
y
SU>
OF
THE
6?
&
LU
O
CO
r>7
<utie
