

w'm.'-k, *~dm
fc, w
<n
y
m
w
/m m
W
Tc
%s>
V
m
y
aw
>/
m
A
\s
m
X.-
:Xk
i
N.X
m
f-
m
mm sur/Jimm
A
m
m
m
m
J
-f
1
k
x 7.
a
%!'
///
#
i
4/
k
m
(
m
II
ti
r
>
I'm- i" r"-M |
Ik/ k-J kf k
y
Y
(iff
%
m
>«'
iCJTf -k
42
i
'nap
w,
/
T
V 1/
A
V
' )v r <
(a
&
%
\
w.
H
/v?
m
m
4w
r>
[f(i
1
I
I
BE IN THE FIRST FLIGHT
With a complete mastery ot Accountancy you can attain to any
height in the Commercial World. To soar above hum-drum
clerical work at small pay, you must
Become A Qualified Accountant.
For 22 years we have specialised in training men to become
skilled accountants and have piloted no less than 4320 through the
Accountancy Examinations. (Last year no less than 1094 succeeded
and won the great majority of the Honors Places for Australia.)
Every student receives individual personal attention, and our
complete course is so simple and concise that anyone with the will
to succeed must do so. Having been for many years professional
accountants ourselves we know what it is necessary for you to
know and teach you accordingly.
Our Illustrated Booklet ‘ ‘Accountancy”
Tells you all about our methods, shows you how to qualify, the time and cost.
We will post you a copy free, together with lists of our successful students upon
receipt of name and address. -WRITE NOW TO-DAY DO NOT DELAY.
HEMIKeWSfePOKffiTSON
The Accountancy Specialists. Established October, 1897.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
' Aberdeen House London Bank Chambers Union Buildings
Collins Street Moore Street Customs Street
First in 1897 Foremost Ever Since.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2105.
Thursday, June 17, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the fienera) Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
Free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD 49K
George Street, Sydney. T*He. 6431. Ann
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
a
SWAN
INK
à
á
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed , Swan Nib ,
Safety Chamber Cap ,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, SjtAmj, Toronto
The A 1
ritish.
V
T
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Every part of the STANDARD EIGHT CAB is built
not only to perform its own particular function well,
but to harmonise perfectly with every OTHER part
of the car.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
m
A
■I
Australians on Service Found
That There is
NO BRANDY LIKE COGNAC BRANDY
and NO COGNAC
BRANDY LIKE
MARTELL’S
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
business is primarily that of exporting American
w chemicals —heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash. chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
1 harmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden Fane, Holbrook Building,
, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices) “Beaehfred.”
iiiiiiiiiiiiliiilillllllllllUlllUtlHUlßtf
vsn'oospuoui
OhU „
'HlllllllltKllllllllllllillDlillimillllMlflllllllililtfiiimiimiimiiiiiiiimiiiiimiimiimiiiii
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than .38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson's Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Being destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthv condition*
The Lancet (London) states“ Their purpose is to
, as , a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tencidally as is creosote” e oac
1/6 a Tin.
I
TO
P
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds,'Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention of
Consumption.
• [8
Th e Red page
American Singers
lhe verse produced in a country is the
best gauge of its spiritual progress; it is
the something-over which you cannot find in
statistics nor learn from either the word of
its politicians or the books of its prose
writers. That inner thing or higher thing
which a man or woman can say in no other
way finds expression in song; and if you
have a really good anthology of a country’s
I best singing effort you have your finger on
its pulse. The Second Book of Modern
T erse .edited by Jessie B. Rittenliouse
(Iloughtoir, Mifflin Company, Boston and
t ork >> fPPears to be a good American
an etiology. A great many poets are rep re-
sente,, and the quality of the verao to £
high by comparison with so much that we
P^ evi °usly seen from American pens
readjiy to be accepted as cliarac-
tenshe of their best work. Here, then,
dlflV f ™ ,,der “ of America, and it
difieis a good deal from what we might
have expected. There is no wild rush of
de , ma “ din g sudden expression even
2* -i“ e - ri . sk . ' ,f crpdity and harshness; no
fundamental breaking with the past, except
m the case of the writers of alleged vers
Irbie; no attempt to sing in terms of that
ion progress _ which is most associated in
Phiw 'i'" n '" U S with American mlvanee.
h ',!? strangely quiet, even restrained;
literary fatherhood of it all must
r nwiVi £* ,ther * to Longfellow than to
Lowell or loe. Americans would probably
' adm ? i t; , but Longfellow at Id's
rvic “f'n S 'f ee i St Jlves on in a thousand
nes of this volume. The general impres-
’iml , g f V £ n -I s one of sirn Ph* grace and a
of 1 l j n tan sweetness—a ramble among
he r>. m'n floWe fl m the springtime in which
he 1 amblers seldom get away from the sight
if,'' 1 ; meeting-house gable, and still more
eldom from the memory of the graves about
t. Of course, the volume contains a great
tk ? t are r altogether at variance
f" ' a H ld ?r* J hei ' ( ‘ is color from the
(St, from the cities, from the classics, from
; !aial ’ th f s c things dominate
He mass of effort. The book goes in a Mav-
)°r V that boimet ’ Und iS UOt tb<? leBs W( ' lc ome
But with all its simple gentleness there
le a. good many things lacking. These
moncans are not without a sense of fine
melody, but they do not seem to grasp the
ill possibilities of word-music. In the
of England and Australia there are
ways recurring lines that recall the ricli-
fJl «L a I K eats °* A f ilton = but you cannot
ad iSn i , And lf the music is thin
ie thought is often still thinner. Take ns
a example “Afternoon on a Hill,” by
dna St. Vincent Millay:
I will be the gladdest thing
Under the sun!
I will touch a hundred flowers
And not pick one.
1 r", look at cliffs and clouds
With quiet eyes,
Watch the wind bow down the grass.
And the grass rise.
And when lights begin to show
Up from the* town,
I will mark which must be mine
And then start down.
I Only that ; and very delicate as it is it is
«at enough. But it is typical of a great
manj things m the book, manv having even
less thought and not nearly as much charm
jjJ® S llure t( > rhyme the first and third
lines of a quatrain is very frequent. That
makes verse-writing a little too easy when
the thinnest shred of an idea is " loosely
spun out to four or five stanzas. Yet no
one could quarrel over a lost rhyme or two
when the otherwise slipshod stanza is used
to such purpose as Josephine Preston
fold” 0 — " SeS 14 m “ Tlle Encban ted Sheep-
Tti rm hi V s , far ’ off were blue, blue,
Ihe hills at baud were brown *
And all the herd-hells called to ’me
As I came by the down.
The briars turned to roses, roses •
Ever we stayed to pull ’
• A white little rose, and a red little rose
And a lock of silver wool.
Nobody heeded-—none, none ;
And when True Love came by,
They thought him nought but the shepherd boy
Nobody knew hut I! *
The trees were feathered like birds, birds;
Birds were in every tree.
Tet nobody heeded, nobody heard
Nobody knew, save me.
And he is fairer than all—all.
How could a heart go wrong?
For_his eyes I knew, and his knew mine,
Like an old, old song 1 .
This is magical enough, though its magic
V ot of , the wizards “bit
ather of the white witches who can only
veave their spells for the well-trained
pagination -Here is Sara Teasdale in
Blue Squills also dropping her rhymes
•ut getting her effect ymes
How many million Aprils came
Before I ever knew
How white a cherry, bough could he
A bed of squills how blue.
And many a dancing April
When life is done with me,
Will lift the blue flame of the flower
And the white flame of the tree.
°h*, burn me with your beauty, then;
Oh, hurt me, tree and flower,
Lest in the end death try to take
Even this glistening hour.
0 shaken flowers, O shimmering trees
O sunlit 'White and blue, ’
Wound me, that I through endless sleep
May bear the scar of .you.
ar stronger in thought, if less tenderly
pressed, is “Blind,” by Harry Kemp
The Spring blew trumpets of color-
Her green sang in my brain— ’
I kcard a blind man groping
“Tap— tap” with his cane;
I pitied him in his blindness;
But can I boast, “I see” ?
Perhaps there walks a spirit
Close by, who pities me—-
A spirit who hears me tapping
The five-sensed cane of mind
Amid such unguessed glories—
That I am worse than blind.
Sometimes the little thought in the verses
seems tuned to a trick rather than a feel-
ing. Thus in “Trees” Joyce Kilmer sings:
I think that I shall never see
A poem more lovely than a tree.
Poems are made by fools like me,
But only God can make a tree.
That is clever, but not convincing. A little
better is the thought in "The Day Before
April," by Mary Carolyn Davies: —
I sat on a broad stone
And sang to the birds.
The tune was God’s making
But 1 made the words.
Truer and stronger is Witter Bynner in
“Hills of Home” :
Name no names for my disease,
With uninforming breath;
I tell you I am none of these.
But homesick unto death —
Homesick for hills that I had known,
For brooks that f had crossed,,
Before I met this flesh and bone *
And followed and was 105 t....
And though they break my heart at last,
Yet name no name of ills.
Say only, “Here is where he passed,
Seeking again those hills.”
A contrast to all these stands Vachel Lind-
say. His “Chinese Nightingale” can hardly
stir a pulse, and the other verses from his
pen are too poor in execution to matter,
but “General William Booth Enters Into
Heaven” has something of the quality of
“The Congo." Here is the opening (bass
drum beaten loudly) :
Booth led boldly with his big bass drum—
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
The Saints smiled gravely and thev said: “He’s come.”
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?)
Walking lepers followed, rank on rank,
Lurching bravoes from the ditches dank.
Drabs from the alleyways and drug fiends pale—
Minds still passion-ridden, soul-powers frail ;
Vermin-eaten saints with mouldy breath,
Unwashed legions with the ways of death —
(Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?).
After that opening the verse grows gradually
less attractive to the close, though there is *
oue good couplet:—
The banjos rattled and the tambourines
Jing-jing-jingled in the hands of queens.
It is the noise of the Salvation Army,
nothing more. A finer music is in the
Chanson of the Bells of Oseu&y (Thir-
teenth Century),” by Cale Young It ice
The bells of Osency
(Hautclgre, Doucement, Austyn)
Chant sweetly every day,
And sadly, for our sin.
The bells of OsenOy
(John, Gabriel, Marie)
Chant lowly,
. Chant slowly,
Chant wistfully and holy
Of Christ, our Paladin.
Hautclere chants to the east
(His tongue is silvery high),
And Austyn like a priest
Sends west a weighty cry.
But Doucement set between
(Like an appeasive nun)
Chants cheerly,
Chants clearly,
As if Christ heard her yearly
A plea to every sky.
The music of the bells riugs on in exquisite
suggestion to the close.
There'are a good many sonnets in the col-
lection. but none of them have any special
distinction, and the soldier verses are not
remarkable. The verse libre, which is plentiful,
contains a striking phrase or two, but has no
claim to be included among the honest verse.
Here is a sample so shameless that its
presence among so many sweet and good
things seems a positive obscenity:—
The swan existing
Is like a. song with an accompaniment
Imaginary.
Across the grassy lake,
Across the lake to the shadow of the willows,
It is accompanied by an image,
—as by Debussy’s
“Reflets dans I’eau.”
The swan that is
Reflects
Upon the solitary water—breast to breast
With the duplicity:.
“The other one!”
And breast to breast it is confused.
O visionary wedding! 0 stateliness of the
procession!
It is accompanied by the image of itself
Alone.
At night
The lake is a wide silence,
Without imagination.
The man who did that is Walter Conrad
Arensberg; and it is notable that most of
th(> perpetrators of similar crimes have Ger-
man-sounding names. Amy Lowell is the
chief exception ; but in tender remembrance
of her honest ancestry it would be a pity to
hold her up to public ridicule by quotation.
One more example of the better American
work to take the taste of the others from the
mouth is “Spring Song.” by William Grif-
fith :—•
.Softly at dawn a whisper stole
Down from the Green House on the Hill
Enchanting many a ghostly bole
And wood-song with the ancient thrill.
Gossiping on the country-side,
Spring and the wandering breezes say
God has thrown Heaven open wide
And let the thrushes out to-day.
That at least is joyously satisfying, and there
is much more in the volume worthy to stand
beside it.
Shak speare and another Obscure
Character
lhe talented Looney (it is an incongruous
name to be talented with, but thev run in
all shapes) undoubtedly did a service to
humanity when he proved that Shakspeare
was really Edward de Yere, Earl of Oxford.
Still Henry de Halsalle did a greater one
when he wrote Degenerate Germany and
pointed out the vast possibility that “Jack
the Ripper” was really a German. I am
reminded of De Halsalle’s book partly bv
Looney and partly by the fact that there
are now two hausfraus in the German
Parliament, and one of them tried the other
day to say something about the need to
amend the “bestial brutality” of the nation
The lady was howled down and the debate
(Continued on page 24.)


TOW!
mv rrmvTTTrTnivuM m m num mu iihrt;»n»ir>HTrty'<nTmTnivF
-
-
:
UiUti-U-i-U.- 1 .Illliu). «M it' UiViiiHmiilOiAiJ-LM
- V ,
kU Lii
' %"•’’• v
mmimf
m mm
£ '• "■ ,
' Vml
- - - ~«k»-v
II I
Wmm-;
*
m : I
irntr?
rn\ H H VTTTTTT
mi m-m 1 t imrrvr
\s>m • > ~’\ ’ '.;|w -' ' ,•
rrn
&
LL^tiLiuiAirtu;utiii l uHUuiHiuuuinnnin\vV>nuMuaxiuiy,.u
■mmiil
>VW»S»
m 2
5^
S
■ "> ■
mrnmm
SSi
mm
£
*£
; > ;
■■
-'
i
■ <
<8
m
ã
CommomVealfhinffihiglcy&l
andS£neereM>e/camelo our
Prinoein
Hie CrMiSQuffamdojlirrisllip.
'\tseßondsofEmnheindssoiubly
weldedouftiefeldspfMfb
in. thefffiiaPmist oppression
of the\vmharestujjurflier
mejsdltenedbrfhe presence
ofourbeJc&edfrhice,
vPAO'Jbupftf tilth usf&r
Freedom. HonotrdLiierf.
and dustice. _
.Australia raisesher Poieemlcnnl
expression o^mltyrndall^aitce
ANTHONY HORDERN 6
B R.ICKFIELD HILL
SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY


Winter days
pass quickly
if you use
a BROWNIE
L .
' W "- T
WAA
*:> '' '" .
- .> ..••« r*
r • • '•
<1
You can use a Brownie at anytime, anywhere. On cold
winter days it affords the happiest way of passing the time.
Even at night you can easily take delightful flashlight
pictures at home.
The Folding Brownies are very popular and inexpensive—the No. 2 takes pictures 2\ x 3J
inches, just a nice size, and only costs 58/"; Box Brownies from 14/6 to 32/-
Ask for the Kodak and Brownie Catalogue. Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane •
The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart ;■ Ruthven Street, Toowoomba*
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth ’■
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
mm
A
JOHN McCORMACIi.
MOISEIWITSCH.
“The Big
Four”
of
Winter 1920.
FRASER GAN UR.
£
*
HUBERT EISDELL.
Famous Artists to Delight Vast Audiences
Get the big list of their records—published by
llis Master's Voice
Of the four famous artists booked for concerts in Australia, Moiseiwitsch has
already made his triumphal appearances. To follow soon come Hubert Eisdell,
F raser Oange. The fame of these four artists has pre-
ceded them. McCormack alone of the quartette was previously in Australia; yet
all of them have sung for us, through the records of “His Masters Voice.” If
you would like to have delightful home-concerts by the four whose triumphs will
make the season of Winter, 1920, memorable, send for the SPECIAL LIST
devoted entirely to the RECORDS BY THESE FOUR ARTISTS. Obtain-
able from all dealers. Lists and name of nearest dealer on request.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD
103 Pitt Street. Sydney.
“His Masters Voice”
Ket/d. Trade-mark.
%
k J 4 v
"HIS MASTERS VOICE


ä
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettea, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE. HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
376
m
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores in Aus-
tralia, and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Jctl tin? T&k
Restore. _yAtr
SIS: jfer
/s'S.-A-d
Wx
U" >'
or a mmm
I!
M
c
POST FREE
TO ANY
PART OF
AUSTRALIA.
The largest
Leather Goods
Specialists
in the
Commonwealth.
A vStereo Case
adds the final touch of smart-
ness to the well-dressed woman.
Stereo cases are fashion’s latest dictate, not only
because of their smartness, but of their usefulness
as well. This design is particularly chic.
X 84 —Art Stereo Case, floral lined, with inside slit
pocket and mirror in lid. Three smart designs—
“ Racing,” “Grapes” and “Flannel Flower.” Size
7iin. x 7in. x 3in.
PRICE 32/6. OTHERS FROM 21/-
EXPERT MAIL ORDER CO.
G.P.O. Box 2575, Sydney.
Also obtainable at
AMERICAN BAG STORES Ltd.,
Corner Pitt and King Streets; Strand
Comer, Pitt Street ; Sydney Arcade, George
Street, Sydney.
l
'Jim ofjimivt
NOT an Experiment!
The Australian Wool Clip is not a thing tc be ex-
perimented with. It was with the fullest recognition
of that fact, and only after years of exhaustive tests,
that “Vallo”—an Arsenical Dip of the highest quality
was placed on the market with a definite pledge to
the Government of its equality to the best Dip ever
offered the Australian Woolgrower.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is an ideal realised. The genuine confidence and
enthusiasm with which it is now being used all over
the Commonwealth is sound evidence that Vallo is
a Perfect Dip. When will your flock start enjoying
its effectiveness, its long-lasting protection? NOW?
Ml Stores Sell 4iC OALLO”
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY - BRISBANE
36
C flooded
CBl
On these long winter nights,*,when you
sit feet foremost to the fireside in silent
contemplation of the off liffc, you
will realise just good pipe means
to you.
THE PERFECT PIPE.
London made. Sold everywhere.
Many shapes.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old-fashioned Song.
The sun each blessed evening
Sets blushing in the ivestj
And so (dear Sir or Madam )
Let one truth be confessed:
New-fangled things may t ?mpt us,
But ancient things are best.
There are fifty new ways every minute
Of doing the old-fashioned things.
Beware of the new! Once begin it,
And your comfort and freedom take wings.
Would you kiss? —kiss as Grandma did,
sweetly,
Lips joined ’neath a pert little nose,
Emotions all docketed neatly,
No passions or such things as those.
There’s safety in Grandma’s style, placid
And modest as daisies in May.
Why stimulate sense with an acid
That eats reputation away?
If you must be perverse and pernicious,
Why blazon your shame to the crowd?
If you think wild desire is delicious,
Why howl your convictions aloud?
Behold the respectable draper
With money safe stored in the bank!
You’ll not find him putting on paper
Confessions amazing and frank.
His left hand can’t guess what his right
• does
(And that’s a good thing for the left),
He scorns what the ass in full sight does,
Of reason and prudence bereft.
O brothers, do all thjit you can do,
Enjoy what you still may enjoy ;
But be wise, for what else can a man do
Who would rather build up than destroy?
If joy you deserve, you shall win it.
Audacity beckons and sings.
There are fifty new ways every minute
Of doing the old-fashioned things.
N.S.W.
ELLERSLIE GREY.
Fern Seed.
This wet day down Currumbin rock
The plashing rivulets must run;
The cormorants —hold fisher flock—
' Dive blacker, for the lack of sun ;
And at the orchard on the hill
The dripping paw-paws find their fill.
Wrinkling their faces at their goad
The waves grow greyer than the sky ;
Empty the winding yellow road
That watched the bathers trailing by ;
And where the shining brackens sway
The fairies keep their bed to-day
To dream the dreams that never stale
(Ror all the pixie dreams come true) •
If we could find the slumber flail,
Beat fern-seed out for me, for you,
We on this dreary day might sleep
Safe in some Spanish castle’s keep !
For from the fern-seed’s magic brew—
The pixie chemists test and show—
The Rainbow and the Vision grew
Too bright for waking eyes to know ;
Some leaf-sweet nest ’twere best to find
Where rain has whipt the ocean blind.
Your lips against the charmfed cup,
My lips so fain to follow yours,
And then to hoist the moth-wing up
That makes a sail for Fancy shores.
On scented tides that forward press
Towards the land of Happiness!
From Queen-street eaves the raindrops fall,
The trams splash down the watery way :
By Burleigh Head a fine white squall
Comes driving into creek and bay.
A fairy woke and stirred a space,
Then pulled the fern across its face.
For us. instead of dreams, a pen,
A wide umbrella for a leaf;
For pixie breaths the words of men.
O Sprite dispenser, send a sheaf
Of seeding fern, and let us creep
Where all our fairies lie asleep!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Moss.
Of all that live in the spring
Love is the newest thing
And moss the oldest. *
So shall a man’s heart sing
When the graves are coldest;
For the moss on the grey stone creeping
Holds more of joy than of weeping.
Man and love and a rose
Went through the Valley of Years.
Of their laughter the sky knows,
The stars remember their tears.
And softly and softly the low moss
Crept up where their steps had been
With a kiss for the feet that were swift to
cross ,
The thorns and the dreams between.
Man and love and a rose between ;
And the wall and the and the tree!
But always the moss came cool and green
With a sigh behind the three.
Cool and sweet and very old ;
And the great, slow dreams moved on
Of man and love in an age of gold—
An age that was mossed and gone.
The man and the moss!
Dear rose too red,
Is it gain or loss
In a dreaming head
If the oldest green
Of the world seem sweet
As the kiss of a queen
To a lover’s feet?
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


On the occasion of the visit of *
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
All hotels crowded—and barbers
working full capacity. Now more
than ever you need a
GiUstte
so that you may shave in comfort
and safety without waste of time.
If your travel-kit lacks a Gillette
take one back home with you.
as*
sss=
in
»
Standard Set,
as illustrated,
28/6.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY
Boston, U.S.A.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Wholesale Agents, Sydney
\
-
\
-
\
MM4.5
m
A Dainty Bite for Supper To-night
Here is a refreshing change for the sandwiches —
easy to prepare—economical and wholesome.
“Rex” Ham Pate
and
“Rex ” Veal and Tongue Pate
are the most appetizing and wholesome sandwich
spreads you can procure.
“Rex” Pates are prepared from the choicest meats,
cooked correctly and flavored with pure spices (then
packed in hygienic solderless tins).
Their taste is a joy—an appetizing treat for the
schoot kiddies and workers lunches—for dainty
afternoon tea and supper sandwiches.
Order a couple of tins to-day and see how all will
enjoy their appetizing zest.
Sold Everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Packers of ' Rex’ Pure Food Pi oducts,
Curers of 'Rex’ Hams and Bacon.
J 2944
3i 02. NET.
a
iaiiiiiiilillliiiiiiiii
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
å
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, BNQLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor,
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores,
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
BAKER & LONGHURST, 60 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans fhe leert) without scratching
\Swejtens the brealh;bardens the gums
r
MADE
rasas
IN
Australia
V
MV
If your chemisl- or storekeeper
cannof supply, send l/s in stomps
to Rocke.Tompsitt c Co. Melbourne.
Space Does
Not Permit—
Space does not permit us to extol the
many virtues of the sterling cars we
represent, but a request for particulars
will receive a prompt reply, comprising
mechanical and general details.
THE BRITISH WOLSELEY
. What more could be said than the fact
that Wolseley cars are the product of one
of Britain’s largest Engineering firms,
viz., Messrs. Vickers, Ltd.? Amongst
their many manufactures perhaps the
Vickers-Vimy aeroplane is not the least
famous. The post-war Wolseley cars are
made in three chasses, viz., 1 0 and 15 h.p.
four-cylinder; 20-h.p. six-cylinder. They
embody the latest ideas, and their high-
efhciency engines are influenced by air-
craft design.
HUDSON SUPER-SIX
and ESSEX CARS.
The popular demand for these cars
continues unabated. This popularity is
solely due to the wonderful performances
of each in its class, and to their uniform
*
trustworthiness during a long life on
Australian roads.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. 41.—N0. 2105.
T LIU BSD AY, JUNE 17, 1920.
Price 9d.
CALLING- THE TUNE.
“The Seamen's Union is demanding” “The A.L.P. is demanding” “The Labor Council is demanding”....
THE RED RAGGER: “Dance, dam’ yer, dance!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Pl AWrnt« d P . ub , l | shed b - v William Macleod, of
;l nd McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
uuLLEm Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
•’ 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
Advance, Only.)
nS"* 1 per aHnum 2/°« can have The
uearln Sgnt rc V ularl, J t 0 Von every week for a
yeai, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
1 oany address overseas, £2 per annum.
dr af ts , etc., which should be crossed, and
Manager' 16 ™ Communication s to be addressed to the
Special Notice.
refused 1016 ' 111 ''' Stamped letters are liable to be
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part oI the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
//ie Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column
oil contributions submitted, whether in the form of
i olitical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
UOt exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
miO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Tiie Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance, Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draum—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The. conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Aliroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Mouse, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.J/;
F. T. Mole, Holerth Satire Service, S Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,’’ 51 High
Molborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International Mouse’,
Mi Kerb Street; Johannesburgj Havana Mouse, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 'Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Mat Works 'and News
Co., 10!)A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley Neivs Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 18'/!)
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, I,2nd Street and tith Avenue,
Neiv York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago ; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer .and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singavore.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fur.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Tjord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lkd. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; .elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
*d, each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1920.
LABOR’S DRY ROT.
Of the 22 delegates present at the annual
Labor Conference held in Tasmania the other
week, no fewer than 12 were members of Par-
liament, and most of the other 10 either
have been or probably expect to be candidates
for a similar job. In view of its composi-
tion it is not surprising that the meeting
assumed the attitude of 22 earnest listeners,
with four-and-forty ears pressed close to the
ground. As a result the proceedings were
flat and commonplace, entirely lacking those
fine flashes of imagination which used to
illumine the early councils and conferences
of Labor and set the “plutocratic press”
howling with indignation or squealing with
unholy joy. Equally the gathering neg-
lected to seize several fine opportunities of
advertising its virility. It discussed lacka-
daisically, and finally passed on to next Con-
ference, a proposal to secure legislative ap-
proval of an experiment in industrial control
of certain State industries—railways, for
example. The adoption of this suggestion
as a fighting plank of the Speck’s Labor plat-
form would have given the industrial organ-
isations of the State (and of Australia) a
lead in a new but imminent direction. The
first political body in Australia to pull this
question of socialised control of industry
down from the clouds and give it a chance
to prove itself in actual practice will cer-
tainly make itself talked about. The
Ogdenites of the Speck have declined the
honor, and deprived their supporters of a
magnificent subject for boast and boost and
bitter disputation. In fact, the published
reports of the whole proceedings fail to
record a single pronouncement of the Con-
ference calculated to give the slightest upl’ft
to the Labor cause. How to buy votes—
it was painfully evident that that was the
thing foremost in these politicians’ minds.
Inevitably this led the Conference into
dangerous quagmires. Thus it was surely
a blunder, or worse, to give Labor candidates
freedom to pander to those denominational
organisations whose leaders are always ask-
ing for State assistance to enable them to
maintain their own schools in competition
with the “godless” schools of the State. Tas-
manian Labor politicians are now at liberty to
promise remission of rates and taxes on pri-
vate school-buildings and teachers’ residences,
free carriage of denominational school-
children on the State railways, the extension
of those privately-owned schools wherein the
State pays for instruction in special subjects
such as cookery and chip-carving; in short,
that any and every resource of the Education
Department shall be placed freely at the dis-
posal of the owners of private or denomina-
tional schools, without limitation, except that
no direct money payment may be made by
the State for private teachers’ salaries or
for buildings. That this tremendous slack-
ening of the old Labor rule will be taken
full advantage of by religious and semi-
religious bodies interested in maintaining
the “separate” school system goes without
saying; and the Parliamentary candidate who
promises the biggest back-door subsidy to
these bodies will naturally secure their sup-
port. There is no fault to be found with
this position from a democratic viewpoint, of
course, for if the supporters of sectarian
schools can count more noses at the ballot-box
than the defenders of the State-school sys-
tem, the former should have their way. and
the non-sectarian State school must go to the
white-ants. But it is just here that the
trouble will occur: the sectarian shindy will
rage more furiously than ever, and all to no
Purpose save the promotion of that kind of
political immorality involved in candidates
making promises which they know they are
never likely to redeem. As Labor candi-
dates are now free to bid as high as they like
for denominational support, while the anti-
Labor candidates are (or were at last State
and Federal elections) united in opposition
to State aid to denominational schools, it
follows that Labor will be definitely branded
with the mark of the sectarian minority.
In view of the Labor party’s quarter-century
of uncompromising support of free, secular
and compulsory education, and of the fact
that that uncompromising support was based
on the firm conviction that no educated de-
mocracy could be realised under the old
church-bossed methods, this paper would
have thought that Labor's education plank
would be the last to suffer mutilation at the
behest of any outside section. But ap-
parently it is to be one of the first. Logi-
cally, the next step of Labor will be to
declare ultra vires that part of the official
objective of the party which provides for “the
extension of the functions of the State and
municipality”; for it is clear that, in educa-
tional matters, at least, Frivate Enterprise
is to be encouraged at the expense of State
enterprises.
* * * *
The outside influences that have entered
into the Labor party and started the rush
down the Steep Pffice probably number seven,
but there are four whose presence in at least
four States can be easily diagnosed. These
are the Importer, Bung, Mother Church
and the Pony Spieler, all organised to
secure concessions in return for political sup-
port, and most of them peculiarly adapted,
by association, tradition and long training,
to successfully camouflage themselves as
“good Labor blokes,” and wholly disinterested
friends of the Cause. That at least some
of these and other more directly capitalistic
interests have, or think they have, several
Labor members and industrial leaders safely
in the bag, is not a matter for surprise: the
desire to attain wealth by short-cuts will
always prevail among a percentage of indi-
viduals in any and every party, and where
the politician roosts lowest on the financial
tree there will the boodle-foxes meet to dis-
cuss wool-tops, leather, wheat, butter, corn-
sacks, etc., as aids to speedy gain.
But not in the moral lapses of straying
members of a party is a community deeply
interested. The behavior of a whole political
party which makes its appeal to the democ-
racy on grounds of honesty and cleanliness
and high principle is a horse of another
color. Certainly the party which publicly
pledges itself to abstain from all alliances
with other parties in Parliament, reasonably
enough maintaining that such alliances would
vitiate the purity of Labor principles and
render solidarity impossible, ought to steer
clear of secret alliances or honorable under-
standings with outside interests or organi-
sations. Has this been done? That there
is a good deal of public doubt on the subject
is shown by the fact that in all Australia
there is only one Labor Government with a
real working majority in Parliament; in
N. S. Wales the party parading the finest
political principles could do no better than
dead-heat with one of the most unpopular
crowds that ever appealed to the electors
in any State. If the platform of the Labor
party had been taken at only half its face-
value by reasonable folks in the three most
recent Australian election contests, Labor
would have won handsomely on big polls.
Instead, it lost unhandsomely on miserably
small polls. The silent voter, whose ballot
is the deciding factor in all elections and is
generally cast for the political party that
looks most genuine, and clean, was' appa-
rently unable to decide which party was the
least dirty, so stayed away from the polling
altogether. And, worst of all for the Labor
party, a tremendous number of wage-
earners, who would probably vote the Labor
ticket from force of habit if they had gone
to the polling-booths at all, followed the
example of the aforementioned silent non-
voter and deliberately disfranchised them-
selves.
* * * *
The average Australian democratic elec-
tor, whether organised or not, and what-
ever his personal character, demands that
his political fare shall be served on a clean
plate and that the viands shall be what
they iprofess to be. He objects to his
political leg being pulled by the party-labelled
catspaws of outside sections or individuals.
If he has Labor leanings he has probably
made it his business to ascertain how far
the official Labor organisation has departed
from those bedrock principles of democracy
involved in fair balloting, majority rule and
above-board dealing within and without the
organisation. If he has discovered secret and
self-chosen juntas of Labor bosses and
officials exercising an overlordship at politi-
cal or industrial gatherings, he naturally
doubts the genuineness of Labor’s professed
democracy. If he has found evidences of a
close political intimacy between shining
lights of Labor and the emissaries of re-
ligious alliances or federations whose aims
are historically as far trom his ideal of an
educated Australian democracy and a co-
operative commonwealth as Macquarie
Island is climatically from the Devil’s soup-
kitchen, he wonders what is in the wind. If
he has caught a glimpse of a wealthy racing
nabob surreptitiously inserting a drop of
golden oil into Labor machinery to make the
wheels within wheels run smoothly, he is
troubled lest he should have been misjudging
the philanthropy Of capitalists for years
and years. If he is interested in the work-
ings of trade unions and learns something
about the manner in which democratic prin-
ciples and the spirit of brotherhood operate
in the annual squabble for paid positions,
and with what splendid socialistic impar-
tiality small technical points are stressed or
ignored to meet the pressing needs of the
wirepullers of the moment, he may be filled
with awe and amazement not unmixed with
a slight feeling of suspicion that up-to-date
unionism could do with a disinfectant.
Many a humble but observant citizen would
willingly walk the boots off his feet to vote
for Australia’s welfare, but he is utterly un-
able to see how Australia is to be served
by his taking part in squabbles and hatreds
imported from far countries. This largely
accounts for the fact that in the last three
elections in Australia we polled little better
than a 50 per cent, vote, and explains why
an increasing number of thoughtful persons
are turning an inquiring gaze towards Bol-
shevik and similar experiments in social
and political science. If the Labor party
stalwarts (there are surely some left) can
find no remedy for this disease which is
sapping their movement, they must no
longer be permitted to pose as the keepers
of the seal of Australian democracy.
AUSTRALIA NEXT?
With the Supreme Court’s affirmation of the
constitutional validity of the Volstead Pro-
hibition Enforcement Act goes the United
States’ last hope of escaping bone-dryness—
unless something like a miracle happens.
The situation is a queer commentary on
democracy in operation. It was created,
during the war, by the votes of men in the
Representatives and the Senate, many of
whom have since been proved to be com-
pletely out of touch with the feeling of the
country. In any event they were not
chosen on a prohibition issue. Yet now,
if the effect of their unauthorised work is
to be overcome, the anti-prohibitionists will
need to get as pledged supporters of their
cause two-thirds of the votes of both Houses
in 33 of the 45 States whose reps, have
already voted dry. No wonder the people
who live on teetotalism are looking for other
worlds to conquer, secure in the knowledge
that the chains are on America for years,
if not for ever !
* * * *
Outside the U.S.A. it is a common error
to suppose that the prohibitionist is still no
more than a cleric who advocates Cold Tea
in the intervals of hot-gospelling. The
question is far more complicated than that
to-day. All sorts of big employers of labor
are interested parties. The white working
man the world over has, broadly, but two
luxuries, tobacco and beer; or, in the case of
southern Europeans and a few Australians
and Californians, wine. The great retail-
ing shops in States like Maine and Kansas
found, years ago, that wherever prohibition
was reasonably effective, the women got hold
of the money that the men had been accus-
tomed to spend on conviviality and “blewed”
it on feminine or domestic luxuries.
Hence the American press, with that
frankness which the libel laws of the
U.S. permit, charged both Representa-
tives and Senators with taking bribes
wholesale from stores and manufacturing
concerns on what to them was purely a busi-
ness issue. The I.W.W. section chuckles
that the capitalists herein took a character-
istically short-sighted view. It holds that
the more barren and joyless the worker’s
life is made the more restless he is sure to
become —that if it were only possible to
deprive him of racing, smoking, pugilism and
every other temptation towards.the baser life
he would turn anarchist from sheer exaspera-
tion. And it points to the Russian law to
repress vodka-drinking, enforced against the
peasants at a time when the sweet cham-
pagne beloved of the aristocracy was pouring
in from France, and says that the pro-
hibition obviously didn’t do the revolution
any harm. In consequence every Bolshevik
and anarchist in a “wet” country is a pro-
hibitionist, in theory if not in practice. Of
course it would be absurd to suggest that
the U.S.A. is dry to-day entirely because
legislators are corrupt, or because industrial
extremists at both ends of the social scale
thought that prohibition would advance the ; r
selfish aims. There is a more powerful fac-
tor—the professional teetotal campaigner.
He is far removed, both intellectually and
in his business methods, from the lugubrious
preacher who specialised in the horrors of
the bottle up to a decade ago. He is paid
a bigger wage than many an operatic star;
and he gives corresponding service. He is
young, alert, a master of crowds and of
repartee, and, unlike his forerunners, he has
plenty of humor and good temper, in addi-
tion to a deep knowledge of the technical side
of his art. In his hands the American nation
was stampeded by all sorts of ingenious
half-truths and lies into believing that absti-
nence from intoxicants was necessary to win
the war. The people who did the stamped-
ing have now to establish for the sake of
their livings that prohibition is required to
win the peace; and as there is no further
employment, for them in the U.S. they are
emigrating, propaganda methods and all.
* * * *
Parts of Australia offer the stipendiary
moralist a remarkably good field. Notably
N. S. Wales, where the Licenses Reduction
Board, brought into existence by the Liquor
Amendment Act (1919), has not yet begun
to be effective. Sydney alone has hundreds
of superfluous licensed houses —places which
are simply so many inebriation-bureaus or
agencies for alcoholic-poisoning. The non-
drinking and moderate-drinking sections of
the people are so weary of the scandal and
damage done by these institutions that
unless most of them are exterminated a
reasonable time before the cold-water mis-
sioned get to work the task of the latter
will be greatly simplified. A vast number
°f the people refuse, however, to face the
possibility of a complete and permanent
drought. They won’t see that this country,
with infinitely more to lose by going dry
than America, is in its own way just as
receptive to the influences iof the anti-
liquor fanatics as the Republic ever was
They simply drift on without any definite
views on the main question ; for of serious
study of the arguments for and against
prohibition there is practically none
* * * »
The advantage this must represent to the
dry brigade is obvious. Meetings aimed at
the overthrow of the beer tankard will be
told, say, of the crime and wickedness caused
all over the world by alcohol. In manv
cases it will be too late then to state the
facts in rebuttal. Take, for example, the
matter of crimes of violence, a favorite sub-
ject with the anti-drink fanatic. Though
allegedly due to drink, these crimes are in
fully id per cent, of cases the work of the
very poor; yet no one with a knowledge of
the world will say that the poor drink more
than the rich. From this it may be fairly
assumed that surroundings and education
have at least as large a bearing on this
question as alcohol. The Irishman "is a
heavy drinker, and till the English army
of occupation arrived in his country the
tally of murders and assaults was smaller
than in any part of the Empire. The Turk,
on the other hand, who is the world’s lead-
ing assassin and robber, is a teetotaller
On the authority of the U.S. Statistical
Bureau, North Dakota, which has been
teetotal for quarter of a century, provides
an average of 63,0 criminals per 100,000
Citizens; while South Dakota, which was
never dry till the Volstead Act came into
being, had an average of 47.8 per 100,000
? an ? e lurie. The Prohibitionists will
tell their hearers that complete prohibition
is enforceable. They must, since even the
most uncritical will realise the effects of
anything different—the illicit stills, slv-
grogshops, poisonous liquors; the new class
ot criminals that such conditions must
cieato and the burden they will mean to the
taxpayers. There will be no one on the
spot at the time to mention effectively that
total prohibition has never been enforced
over any large stretch of country, and that
so long as man retains the taste for alcoholic
refreshment it never can be. For intoxb
eating spirits may be distilled, by verv
simple processes, from every flower anil
ve B' eta ble that grows. Even Nature
is liable to turn illicit distiller; so that in
Sro a ffu!e-growing districts the farmers
aie obliged to urge the virtuous cow away
from their windfalls in the interests of the
animal s sobriety. No matter, indeed,
arguments can be brought against pro-
hibition, the Australian public will be 1 at
the mercy of the disingenuous methods which
were effective m the U.S.A. unless there is
a campaign of serious, judicial inquiry
America went to its arid doom in ignorance!
? , that example before their eyes the
inhabitants of the Commonwealth are also
content with ignorance, then they will de-
serve the fate which threatens them.
KEEP THE FLAG OUT OF THE
GUTTER.
Someone really should start a League for
the protection of the Union Jack. Like the
terms “Digger” and “Anzac” the flag ought
to be preserved from the mud of trade and
political traffic. Actually, every politician,
or militarist, or scoundrel who has decided
to make patriotism his business is at liberty
to use it to confuse issues for his own base
ends. When the R.A.N. was first mooted
the scheme was denounced by the importing
interests as an insult to the Union Jack
at c a ,?? arilfestation of disloyalty. When a
A. fc>. Wales Ministry decided to put Sydney
Lovernment House to its present use and
throw portion of its needlessly vast grounds
open to the public, Henley, M.L.A., the
possessor of an unequalled nose for ’“dis-
loyalty,” condemned the scheme as an
insult to the Flag.” In the early stages
at war Austr alians who joined the
A.I.F. when they were in a financial posi-
tion to enlist in England were looked on
coldly by the bogus loyalists: the call of
the Lmon Jack was represented as being
to the British Army. Under a British
Tory Government 20 years ago it was an
insult to the Flag to advocate freedom for
the Boers; a few years later a Liberal Gov-
ernment came into power, the Boers got
self-government, and the Flag, being of no
further use in the matter, was allowed to
drop out of the controversy. Of late years
it has been exploited by the anti-Horne
Rule party. The idea is that the Unionist
is loyal to the Flag, though in 1914 Edward
Carson and his colleague F. E. Smith
were raising and drilling an army of rebel-
lion against it; while the Home Ruler is
ipso facto disloyal. Yet the Home Rule
leader Redmond died of wounds for the
Empire in Flanders; while the Unionist
leader Smith, though a Yeomanry officer
when the war began and a much younger
man than the alleged disloyalist, kept out
of the firing-line.. By a similar queer reac-
tion it is practicable for an eligible who
shirked military service throughout the war
to question the loyalty of'a Digger V.C.
of Irish descent and have a reasonable
chance of carrying off the bluff.
* * * *
The war for freedom having been fought,
and unparalleled sacrifices having been
made by the people, as distinct from the poli-
ticians, high officials and certain speculators
who did well out of the calamity, there was
a natural expectation that the article for
which so hideous a price had been paid
would be delivered. It has not been deli-
vered. There may be sound moral grounds
for holding Egypt: though the commercial
value of the Canal is even more important,


nrobably. in the opinion of the present Brit-
ish Government. Persia may be occupied
for its own good ; and then, agam, tbe fact
that oil is the naval fuel of the future
may have a bearing on the question. All
over the world the spectacle is offered of
people in bondage. Yet if that patent truth
is commented on there js a type of citizen
who, by some crazy inversion of logic,
denounces the as a reflection upon
the Union Jack. As if the tremendous sym-
bol which stands for the valor and sublime
selflessness of the Empire’s fighting-men was
to blame for the villainies or stupidities ot
Executives! .
* * *
The party-politicians, whose lust for power
is second only to their lust for office, have
never been blind to the possibilities of the
Flag. Our own W. M. Hughes is a case
in point. The war has been over a matter
of nearly two years. Germany is as
impotent to hurt Australia, militarily, as
Lapland. Yet the War Precautions Act,
which gave Ministers such powers as tne
Kaiser himself never wielded, on the under-
standing that they were necessary to guard
the Commonwealth against German aggres-
sion, remains in force. The recent deporta-
tions of Germans and pro-Germans have
been carried out under it. The country is
probably well rid of those who have been
deported. But that is not the point. The
matter which should concern all lovers of
real liberty is the fact that it lies in the
power of a politician—who, judging by
recent events, doesn’t even hold the con-
fidence of the country —to imprison or exile
anyone, and no reasons given. Because those
deported happen to be Germans, or the posses-
sors of German names, the autocrats and their
dupes postulate that whoever calls for the
wiping-out of an Act which is now a menace
to liberty, is a traitor to the Union Jack.
The impudence of the contention as well as
the danger of the present situation, may be
exemplified by imagining that, instead of
W. M. Hughes, Imperialist, the ofAce ; of
autocrat in control of the War Precautions
Act were W. M. Smith, Bolshevik. Smith
might gaol and deport under the. Act the
very loyalists who at recent meetings have
claimed that those who ask for its repeal
do so out of hostility to the Union Jack.
There is, of course, a wide difference between
loyalty to the Union Jack and loyalty to a
gang of opportunist politicians. Most intel-
ligent people are getting to realise that a
new war for freedom began among the
civilians when the soldiers had done their
work. It suits autocrats like W. M. Hughes
to create an impression that anyone who
attempts to undermine the immense and
dangerous powers to which they are cling-
ing is insulting the British Flag. But it is
none the less infamous that they should be
allowed to do it.
THE CRAZE FOR THEFT AND
REPUDIATION.
“Of over 80,000,000 acres in the N.S.W. Western
Lands Division at least 8,000,000 acres are suitable
for immediate closer settlement. This land, which
is in the hands of about 25 large companies or
financial institutions, belongs to the Crown, but
was leased to the present holders for 40 years—
the leases to terminate on June 3, 1943—at the
notoriously low rate of from Id. to 2d. an acre
a year. The Government should certainly make
full inquiry into this matter with a view of revok-
ing these leases and throwing the land open for
closer settlement without delay.’’— Lambert, Presi-
dent of the Australian Labor Party, to the annual
conference at Sydney.
The revolutionary section of the Labor
party doesn’t really object to the “capitalist”
so much as to the employer—the man who
pays the legal union wage or more to white
Australians, and observes the union rules,
and produces things that often compete with
the importer and which the union bosses
won’t allow their own men to produce by
co-operative effort. The capitalist may be
denounced, but it is always the employer
who is meant. Sometimes the latter is
heading straight for the Bankruptcy Court.
Sometimes he is a man with chances of
wealth ahead, but who meanwhile has
nothing but credit based on his good name
and ability. Qui. a lot of enterprises start
without capital. Rich or poor, however, so
long as a man employs Australians and pro-
duces things he is a target, and is a person
whose assets are to be stolen, confiscated and
“taken over.” On the other hand, the rich,
non-productive man who sits hard on his
money, investing it and collecting interest
and unearned increment, is little molested.
He may even be considered eligible for a
portfolio in a Labor Ministry. The men
who gambled a bit of money on State leases
in N.S.W.’s Western Desert weren’t neces-
sarily capitalists at all. Many of them, if
they had had money, would certainly have
bought freeholds where there is a rainfall
instead of being rent-payers where there is
generally a drought. As State tenants they
are also almost the only men on the soil who
don’t represent private land monopoly. And
even the Labor president, who proposes, in
the craze for confiscation and the hatred of
employers of Australian labor, to break
faith with them and make N. S. Wales a
liar and thief by stealing their leases, doesn’t
say that they are making any wonderful
profits, or any profits at all, out of their
dusty, dog-infested rabbit-haunted business.
The N. S. Wales West isn’t desirable.
Almost every' county out there was losing
population a dozen years before the Western
Division was marked out and the 40-year
leases were granted. Capitalists at one
time chucked it bodily. Apart from the two
mineral fields it is unusual for a Western
county to graze one human being to two
square miles. One to 50 square miles is
much more common. The place was rushed
in a mild way before there were meteoro-
logical records. That is to say, cattle and
sheep men went out in a good year think-
ing it was a bad year and believing that
better years were to follow. Since then
they have been coming back. Also records
have been accumulating. The Federal
Meteorologist has just issued a report about
the best part of the division —Deniliqmn,
Wentworth, Wilcannia. Bourke and Brewar-
rina, all close to the Big Trickle and closer
to the sea than most of the country. At
Deniliquin there have been, in the 61 years
covered by observations, 27 well-defined
droughts covering from four to 30 months
each. In the lump that means 38 years of
drought in 61 years. And the 23 damp years
were only damp in the Western sense, which is
a pastoral, not an agricultural, sense. \\ ent-
worth had 25 droughts in 52 years, and one
drought was 2\ years long. Wilcannia had
19 droughts in 41 years, a specimen being
2i years long. Bourke had 23 rainless spells
(one 23 months long) in 48 years; and m
the same period Brewarrina had 18 droughts,
one covering two years 11 months. 4 here
are these possible explanations of the sin or
attempting to push small settlers into such
country:—
(1) A crazy hatred of the employer of white
Australian labor. Because of this hatred the fana-
tics help the importer of nigger and other alien
goods by organising strikes and keeping down to
the utmost the supply of local skilled labor for
local manufactures.
(2) Ignorance of what State land-ownership really
means. Hence the party’s failure to interest itself
in developing the State's neglected ports by rail-
ways connecting them with the interior, so that
new cities might grow, with the St„te as sole ground
landlord from the first.
(3) The desire for an excuse to handle another
big “land settlement’’ and railway loan.
(4) Subservience to the Sydney congestion idea.
This idea rules out the Northern and Southern coastal
districts for close settlement, for if there were
many people there they would force the opening
of their own ports and might even secede. The
congestion policy leaves only the West to gamble
with.
(5) The simple craving to steal and confiscate
something, even a dry, dog-haunted lease.
(6) Some form of malignant sin not elsewhere
enumerated.
* * * *
And while there is this proposal to push
victims out into the Mulga Wilderness there
is good land crying for occupation. Here
follows a list of some N. S. Wales counties
and their population—all close or fairly
close to the coast, some almost in sight of
it; all in regions of rainfall and permanent
rivers (the list deals only with counties
which have less than two human beings per
square mile) :
In Northern New South Wales (people per
100 square miles).
Hawes . . .. 35 White .. • • 152
Stapylton . . .. 67 Buller .. • • 151
Gresham . . • • 72 Clarke . • • • 1«»
Drake .. •• 88 Arawatta •• 171
Baradine .. •• 97 Vernon .. 182
Jamieson .. .. 107 Burnett .. • ■ 188
In Southern New South Wales ( people per
100 square miles).
Cowley . . • • 28 1 Buccleuch .. .. 155
Sehvyn . . .. 138 | AVallace .. • • 184
And, by way of contrast,
Cumberland (in which Sydney lies), 43,077.
The 16 counties enumerated represent
28,457 square miles; or more than the area
of Tasmania; and though they include much
of the best land in the State, they have
a population of only 36,696, whereas
Tasmania has 215,000. Occasionally the
ruling class at Sydney makes a sort
of friendly approach to the outlawed
region, as, for instance, when it supplied the
North Coast with a mostly-unballasted line
in three broken sections which end nowhere
and have no inland connections to bring
trade to local ports; also a quantity of old
rolling stock from the Sydney scrap-heap,
and a time-table made in Sydney which isn’t
time but eternity, and isn’t so much a table
as the shattered ruins of a one-legged stool.
But the Macquarie-street camarilla concen-
trates its real energies on Drought land.
And no doubt it may be possible to get a
Government of Sydney men that will cancel
Western leases and shove loan settlers out
there. But if the political capital of the
Ma State was at, say, Nymagee, so that the
Legislature could keep its weather eye on
the drought to the west, and its leeward
eye on the better country to the east, and
could know its territory by more than hear-
say, no such iniquity would be possible.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Footnote to History.
Mr. McMahon said he did not want to appear an
alarmist. But Asia was waking from her sleep
of ages. On the one side we had Asiatic activity ;
on the other Australian inertia; and Asia was
entitled to the fruits of her activity. Meantime,
we in Australia were trying to build up an indus-
trial Utopia. We were striking, crippling industry,
and strangling enterprise. That Utopia was of
shadowy substance, and so it must remain until
Australia had a hundred million people, and her
stability was assured. If the Empire fell, there was
no part of it which would fall more terribly into
the hands of its enemies than Australia.
From an Appendix note to Vol. XXIV. of
Chu Hu’s “Decline and Fall of the Cau-
casian Races” :
In the early part of the 20th century a white
race sparsely peopled the coastline of what is now
Greater Hainan. Though but a handful numerically
they bulked large in the contemporary sporting
records, to which the historian must turn for a
proper appreciation of this extraordinary age. They
would appear to have excelled at all ball-games,
being equally adept at striking spherical objects
with the foot, or with instruments wielded by
the hand. Great honor and profit accrued to
selected males who were able to run or swim certain
distances a second faster than the rest. Crowds
which were immense, relatively to the exiguous
population, assembled once a week, or oftener, to
watch the nation’s athletes at play; and on such
occasions all work was abandoned.
The Australians, as they were called, proved
themselves in the only great conflict in which they
‘engaged outside their own territories to be brave
and resourceful soldiers. But as a result of their
traditional unreadiness they were not only un-
trained but practically unarmed when the exhaust-
ing European War began, which was eventually to
bring the white races beneath the domination of
the yellow.
For this their political system was chiefly to
blame. The office-holding politician was in a lucra-
tive and honorable position from which a hostile
vote in Parliament might at any time oust him.
It was natural that he should concern himself more
with his own immediate needs than with the remoter
perils of his country. He became a time-server,
an opportunist. Did the industries of the nation
call for a tariff? He offered one. Did the im-
porting interests protest? He raised no objection
to a lowering of the duties. Did nationalists call
for defence? He promised it. Did internationalists
and the rich who dreaded taxation appeal for
pacifism and economy? He assured them that his
defence schemes would be reconsidered with a view
to their modification.
At a time when the goods of industrious Asia
were flooding the Australian market the workers
of that country declared some for a 44- and others
for a 40-hour week, and for many other conditions
which placed them at an industrial disadvantage >y
comparison with their colored brethren of the North.
State Arbitration Judges, appointed in certain in-
stances for their broad views on such questions,
allowed far more generous terms both as regards
hours and wages than those fixed by the National
Court. An effect was to kill industry in such
States and to drive the population either out of
them or on to land which by reason of recur-
rent Noughts was ill-fitted to support a large agri-
cultural population. The cost of. living rose as
production decreased, and successive administrations
of popularity-seekers added to the national debt and
note-issue. With no great industries, the highest
wage and lowest hour-schedule in the world, and a
stationary population the country was unable to
maintain either a trained army or an effective sea
and air fleet.
The turning-point in its destiny was sudden. 1 u
Li, a Nanking merchant, was refused the right of
entry by the Australian immigration officials. The
Pekin and Tokio Governments decided to make a
national matter of the incident. Within 24 hours
the aviators of United Asia were over the great
cities of Eastern Australia. The different troop-
landings were accomplished a week later. Ill-
armed, untrained and with no means of transport
owing to the differing railway gauges in the dif-
ferent States, the inhabitants nevertheless put up
an heroic resistance. Taking to the mountains and
the bush, in the last stages of their agony, they
fought not as armies but as families. When the
men fell they handed their rifles to their wives, and
the very children joined in a struggle which to
them had the sanctity of a crusade. For behind
the indolence and the lightness of character which
had brought them to such a pass there gleamed
one great ideal —that of race.
Conversion proved to be impossible, and their
systematic extirpation was regretfully ordered. A
few of the younger children were captured and sent
to China. Far inland, on the remote banks of
the Whang-lio, there may be seen to this day faii-
skinned, hawk-nosed and long-jawed Chinese who
walk with a swing instead of a shuffle, who are
quick to strike and quick to forgive and who have
the gift of easy laughter. They are all that remain
of the exotic race which flowered and died so bril-
liantly, as it were in a night, two centuries ago.
♦
A Few More Furlongs.
It doesn’t seem long since £1 a hundred
was reckoned good pay for pulling wool oft
a sheep’s back. In the Queensland Arbitra-
tion Court last week Justice McCawley
awarded the A.W.U'. shearers £2 a hundred
and fares one way. He also allowed shed-
hands £4 10s. and woolpressers £5 10s.
a week, in each case with board and lodg-
ing and fares one way; and he granted
preference to unionists and a 44-hour week.
In fact, he conceded the members of the
union pretty well everything they asked for,
except the shearers’ cooks. The rate for
cooks he fixed at 9s. a man, and the shearers
declare they will give no more, so a strike
threatens, and there is uncertainty regard-
ing the stew, and doubt hovers about the
duff, and perhaps in the long run the
Theodore Government will have to estab-
lish an Arbitration Court of Appeal with
portion of the £9,000,000 loan to settle the
dispute between the gentleman who dis-
severs the jumbuck from its coat and his
dissatisfied employee, the cook. There are
possibilities of trouble in other directions.
The Queensland pastoral workers, as well
as those in N. S. Wales, Victoria and S.
Aus. (the W.A. and Tasmanian toilers make
their own agreements with the employers),
have been operating under awards the
Federal Arbitration Court since 1907. The
last Federal award (it fixed the shearing
rate at £1 10s. a hundred and the wages of
woolpressers and shed-hands, with “found,”
at £4 and £3 a week respectively) is' dated
1917, and Federal awards are supposed to
over-ride State awards to the extent of any
inconsistency disclosed.; that is what the
Federal Arbitration and Conciliation Act pro-
vides, anyhow. In other words, when Justice
Higgins says shearers are to get £1 10s. a
hundred and Justice McCawley says they
are to get £2 a hundred, the Higgins rate
stands, if Federal law is worth a rush. But
successive High Court judgments have
knocked so many holes in tire Federal Act
that there are only a few melancholy shreds
of parchment left, and their validity is
doubtful at that. State industrial Judges
handle the tattered remains with scant re-
spect. According to Justice Rooth, of West-
ralia, where State and Federal awards con-
flict the employees can choose which they
prefer. “If the men like to be governed
by the Federal award,” he said in a recent
case of the kind, “they can do so, but it
does not make our award invalid. I agree
that you cannot work both awards together,
but if they (i.e., the employees) elect to
be under one award, they cease to be under
the other.” Apparently Justice McCawley,
of Queensland, takes the same view. That
young gentleman justifies himself for trench-
ing on Brother Higgins’s preserve in these
terms: —
What chance has the union of getting its claims
heard by the Federal Court? Am I justified in telling
this union that the remedies that the Legislature
of the State has provided must be withheld from
it —that it must confine itself to a Court which
cannot consider its claims? I am told that if I
grant increases it will cause industrial trouble
in the neighboring State. Even assuming that such
may be the result, I do not think that I should be
justified in withholding consideration of the claim
for that reason. Industrial peace in other States is
desirable, but it must not be gained at the expense
of obvious industrial injustice in this State.
And so the Queensland shearers get their
£2 a hundred, and now the N. S. Wales
shearers will ask for their £2 a hundred, and
the Vic. shearers for theirs, and the S. Aus.
shearers for theirs, and the Tasmanian
shearers will be well forward in the rush,
nor will the W.A. shearers lag at the tail
of the procession. And the scourers, press-
ers and shed-hands in each of the five States
not covered by the Queensland award will
want their additional 30s. a week, too. The
alternative in every case will be trouble.
Possibly the industry as a whole can stand
the new rates, although the price of wool
is beginning to sag, and there is drought
over parts of Victoria and Queensland and
a great stretch of N. S. Wales, and there
will be several million fewer sheep to shear;
also the Storey Government in N. S. Wales
is raising a loan of £2,000,000 for the relief
of some of the men who used to own the
sheep, growing sheep being less profitable
in many cases than pulling the wool off
their backs. The point is that this
McCawley award has shoved the already
complicated business of industrial arbitra-
tion a few furlongs nearer chaos.
Hand Labor of One Sort and Another.
Extract from the Textile Mercury (Eng-
land)
Mr. Frank Warner took a party of journalists to
inspect the hand-loom silk-weaving at his mill at
Braintree. The chief object of the visit was to see
the three-pile figured velvets which were invented
and patented in 1916, but which, with the exception
of one piece sent to America, have not been iia.,u-
factured to any great extent until now it is
intended to extend hand-loom weaving to meet the
increasing demand for hand-made fabrics.
Hand-loom weaving, for the best fabrics,
never died out any more than hand-sewn
clothes or hand-knitted socks. In fact, Eng-
land is inventing new varieties of it,, and,
though the war prevented any “great” im-
mediate development, "the increasing
demand” is now being faced. Australia, with
its usual upside-downness, instead of put-
ting a commission of manufacturers on the
Repatriation job, manufactured goods being
what we are most short of, appointed a
N. S. Wales west-country land-agent. Out
of the depth of his knowledge of beeves and
ox-bones he pronounced hand-loom weaving
“a hundred years behind the times” when
it was really just getting its second wind in
new lines. So the Anzac tweed industry,
which somebody started before the beeves
and ox-bones Department could stop it, re-
ceived neither aid nor encouragement nor
much politeness, and has always been treated
as an impertinent interference with “settle-
ment.” The fact that the “Harris tweed”
which the sporting heroine of liction is
dressed in, Donegal tweed and other well-
known brands are hand-made was outside
the ken of the official Repatriators. Still,
thev were active in their own way, as wit-
ness this par the other day: —
To what extent the man on the land needs assist-
ance was emphasised yesterday by Mr. A. W. Ball,
now in Sydney, who is a farmer on the Ooma Soldiers
Settlement between Forbes and Grenfell.
“My brother and I took up our holdings in 1918,
he said. “There was no natural water supply , and
since August of that year we have had no rain For
the past 18 months we have been carting water for the
stock from a bore five miles away, and if anything
went wrong with the supply it was necessary to
travel 12 miles for water. Even then we could
only bring barely sufficient for one drink for the
stock. We have put in four crops, two of wheat.
We have not got sufficient seed out of the whole lot
to do us for this vear. These conditions are geneial
throughout the district, and my brother and I are
better off than most.... The majority of farmers
have spent their last farthing now.”
This isn’t the case of an isolated person who
went out on his own, but of a settlement,
officially established by the Repatriators.
And Grenfell is comparatively “close in.
The N. S. Wales Government is building
loan railways 100 and 150 miles further
west than that to push settlement out into
far worse places. Partly through lack of any
really strenuous effort to persuade returned
soldiers to learn trades, combined with vast
effort to beguile them to such country, Syd-
ney found itself the other day in a curious
position. Its electric heat was turned oil
for lack of imported machinery to generate
sufficient of it. New people couldn’t get
the gas laid on for want of meters to measuie
it with. And they couldn’t get imported
telephones to cuss through on the subject.
So the only thing was to silently wrap up
in horribly expensive imported tweed, the
comparatively cheap local article (hand or
machine made) meeting only 15 per cent, o
the demand. Hand-loom weaving may be
behind the times, though that is hard to
prove; but it isn’t so asinine as the policy
of “settling” men at vast expense on land
without water, and where in the frequent
drought the nearest moisture is five miles
away when it isn’t a dozen, while there is
drought-proof work with a sure return wait-
ing for trained men to do.
Croesus in Search of a Telephone.
There is reason to believe that Crcesus,
with all his wealth, never got a telephone.
Certain Australian papers, especially Tree-
trade ones, should note this fact. It is com-
plained that the Postal Department s revenue
increased by £698,259 last year, let with
all this extra money to spend the supply
of new telephones is shorter than evei.
Quite possibly an increased revenue <»
£698,000,259 would have left the supply just
as short. The world is desperately busy in
places repairing the smash of the war, and
in making up the arrears of the war. It is,
besides, training new artisans to replace tnosc
who were lost or had their apprenticeship
stopped during the war. So it tells Aus-
tralia, by action if not by word, to go and
do likewise—to bog in and make its own
telephones and try also to make a few sur-
plus ones for export to countries that have
vast repairs to do, which this lucky, happj
land hasn’t. Just at this point Australia may
discover what an ass it has been. It has
unemployed in abundance. In fact, its big-
gest city has so many, even _ after sending
numbers away to Government jobs, that Syd-
ney has been requesting country towns to
take some of them away for a spell lest they
should howl at the Prince of Wales for
alms. Wharf-laborers, odd-jobbers, pick-
and-shovellers, hawkers, racecourse hangers-
on and blowers of street music are also plen-
tiful. But skilled artisans are so scarce
and rare that when imports run short even
£689,259 of extra revenue has failed to sup-
ply an extra buzz instrument. The im-
porting and Freetrade interests were re-
sponsible for this diseased and rotten state
of affairs to begin with, for they did their
uttermost all the days of their lives to dis-
courage local industry, so as to make room
for their German and other wares. Every
importer deserves to have his telephone cut
off now as a sign that the curse has come
home to roost. Selfish, ignorant Labor
leaders did the rest by limiting to the
utmost the number of apprentices and
learners, so that the supply of skilled
workers became hopelessly insufficient, and
the incubus of the unskilled grew awful. If
children must exist (and no Labor leader
has said anything to the contrary) and must
grow up, it is better that too many of them
should learn the most highly-skilled trades
than that too many should become mere
creatures of burden and odd-jobbers. The
highly-skilled mechanist, say, in the tele-


\r*
mi
be Centre
ą
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
V '
1
VC
’em
Wi
2k
“JGlustralia'"
Wfnter Gar Jen
j
phone line, may, and does, make an exist-
by.parcel-carrying or road-repairing
01 1 i I^e , at a crisis. The person who
onlj learned parcel-carrying or road-repair-
ing can t make telephones at any sort of a
crisis. lhe adjuncts of the higher civilisa-
tion grow very scarce in Australia, partly
because the advanced nations, being over-
whelmed with orders, have little to sell, and
partly because there is a limit to their ability
to lend us their own money to pav for their
rp^Qr g -2° ds ‘ So Criesus—especially Loan
Ceclsus— must go short of his telephone.
A Tip from the Bench.
At Melbourne General Sessions the other day
the lawyer retained by one of the accused
tailed to turn up when the case came on for
hearing. Whereupon:
H, , s , Honor raid it was outrageous that counsel
vnu h A s c } ient - (To accused) : Have
>ou paid for his attendance?
Accused; Yes, I paid him about Ist Mav.
Honoi ' : r ,f docs not soon appear' I will
have him sent for. There seems to be gross contempt
ny him to Judge, jury and everybody else concerned.
After further heated observations the Judge
( Woinabski) adjourned the hearing, and on
counsel making his appearance fined him £3
for contempt of Court. Now. in this case
counsel had a fair excuse. He had intended
to turn up at the General Sessions, but was
held at the St. Kilda Court through two
matters being taken separately which he had
been assured would be taken together. But
every day of the week, all over Australia,
barristers and solicitors ore letting their
clients down without any justification whut-
ever. A particular counsel is recommended
by the instructing attorney, because he
is a specialist in the jurisdiction concerned,
or because he is “a good man with a jury,”
or because he knows the idiosyncrasies of
ui, dge by whoni it is intended the case
shall be heard ; and manoeuvring for the right
•Judge is not the least important part of a
legal adviser’s duties. Provided the fees are
forthcoming—and it is the custom of the pro-
ession to receive them in advance—tin- ex-
pert will accept the brief. lie may not first
have assured himself that it will be con-
venient for him to turn up in court. Cases
are not uncommon where a busy leader has
half-a-dozen engagements to appear in differ-
ent suits on the one day. The furthest the
eminent advocate will go in such circum-
stances is to pass on the brief to an un-
employed member of the Bar and allow him
half the fee for his trouble. Age has so
i espectablised this swindle that the ethical
touchstone of some other calling needs to be
applied to it for its enormity to become
apparent. Suppose that a man paid 100
guineas in advance for a specified suite of
high-class furniture, and was asked to take
delivery of a collection of cheap Chinese-made
goods. Or suppose he got the assurance of the
world-famous Brown that he (Brown) would
remove his appendix for 100 guineas, and on
reaching the operating-table found that the
work was to be done by the tyro Smith on
a halt-fee basis. In either of those cases the
average man would consider that he had been
cheated. But the legal profession goes fur-
ther. Where counsel has not troubled to pro-
yj a substitute the litigant may, as in the
Melbourne case, either represent himself or
go unrepresented altogether; and any sug-
gestion concerning a refund of fees would be
treated as outrageous. Of course all lawyers
do not behave in this way. But it is equally
well known that many of them do. Judge
\v oinarski’s unprecedented action last week
is ot value only as a gesture. And, in any
case, since many of the Judges have offended
similarly in their day, they are unlikely to
foUow his lead. The real remedy rests with
Bai ' Councils and Law Institutes of the
different States. If they began a practice of
disciplining fraudulent advocates in the same
way as fraudulent attorneys are already dis-
ciphned, a convention would speedilv die
which is almost as unjust to the higher type
of counsel as it is to the litigating public
-*■
Shall John Wren be Crowned King?
There is room for honest difference of
opinion as to whether Father Jerger should
or should not, be sent back to Germany He’
was born in Germany and interned in N. S.
Wales, the charge against him being that he
openly and flagrantly espoused the German
side during the war, and if he is guilty lie
should be deported just like any ordinary
Hun, lor clergymen and laymen are equally
responsible in the sight of the law. An
enemy who has behaved as Father Jerger
is alleged to have done cannot be exempted
from the punishment fixed for that class of
offence because he is a priest. Neither
should he be released for the sole reason that
he belongs to a powerful church which may
desire his release, for it is impossible to
concede that the wish of a powerful church
should take precedence over the public wel-
fare. The accused and his church are both
subject to the laws of the Commonwealth,
and the safety of the Commonwealth is still
the supreme law. Only two arguments can
be advanced in favor of Father Jerger,
one that it is nearly 12 months since
peace was signed and that Australia should
let bygones be bygones; the other, that he
asserts his innocence and is entitled to a trial
by a non-military court. An agitation
directed on either of these lines would have
been legitimate. It would certainly have
appealed to the sympathy of a great many
people who are neither green nor yellow.
But unfortunately for Father Jerger, other
methods were adopted. The notorious John
Y\ ren emerged from one of his pony race-
courses and threw himself into the contro-
versy. And so we read things like the fol-
lowing :
A largely attended meeting was held on Sunday at the
Cathedral Hall, Brunswiek-street, Fitzroy, to protest
against the deportation of Father Jerger. Mr. John
Uren (who presided) said that Father Jerger had
been interned for three years. No one knew why
he had home internment for three years. Father
Jerger had seen him (the chairman) a fortnight
ago, and he had communicated with the Trades Hall
Councils of Victoria and other States. He was
pleased to inform them that the seamen of Australia
would not man any vessel on which any person was
being deported unless that person had had a fair
trial. The wharf-laborers had also decided not to
load any such vessel.
W REN laid the foundation of his fortune by
conducting a tote. lie ran it in the spirit
in which he is running the Jerger agitation
the .spirit of lawless resistance to authority.
LITTLE DROPS O,F WATER, LITTLE GRAINS OF SAND.
THE EXPERT: “That’s the way to load the animal. A little to-day and a little to-
morrow, and the poor beast doesn't notice it enough to kick your eye out while
you're putting it on."
Ihe means are different, but the end is the
same. Once he raised barricades and hired
bullies to prevent the Government from sup-
pressing his tote; now he intrigues with
lom Walsii and other loud-mouthed ex-
ponents of anarchism to prevent the Govern-
ment from deporting Father Jergeb. Gov-
ernment, in When’s conception, is a thing
which may be lawfully resisted, mocked at
and rebuked with the dead cat of contumely
when its decrees conflict with the caprices
or prejudices of Wren, or the interests of
someone friendly to Wren. Australia has had
to endure a lot these last few vears. It
has suffered many humiliations ' since the
prestige of the Executive was brought down
t( ' iff.£ utt £ r ,n the conscription referendum
But one humiliation it will not
suffer. It can tolerate the insolence of
elected persons and the rhetorical extrava-
gance of imported prelates; but the spec-
tacJe of an ex-tote-man posing as a trumpet
of sedition, of a successful gambler justify-
ing lawless resistance to a lawful exercise of
power, m a poor imitation of Rienzi and
-Leix —this is too much.
*
The Homeless Women of Ultimo.
The inevitable Dr. Arthur, M.L.A was
m print early with his protest re 40 unfor-
tunate families who are under notice to emit
certain dreary shacks at Ultimo (Sydney)
just when the weather is cold and houses
are almost unobtainable. The chronic first-
aid man, after talking like a mother to 20
of the distressed housewives, some of them
very ancient, urged that the building of
business premises on the site should be post-
poned and the workmen turned on to run-
ning up cottages for the prospective ejectees
at Daceyville or Matraville or some such
remote place. But, being the mildest of
little grey men, he didn't express an opinion
about the heartless conduct of those union
leaders who aim to reduce the supply of
new houses by some 1600 per annum for
the sake of an extra half-day’s loafing per
week. And there are other points:—
(1) There is something wrong with the kind of
Government which diverts railways, closes ports,
fakes railway rates and does every other kind of
dog-meanness so as to compel nearly half the popu-
lation of a great State to crowd into and around
L ltimo. No respectable doctor should accept a port-
folio in such a concern or fail to lift his voice in
protest against its ways.
(2) There is something rotten in the policy which
retains the State capital in a big commercial city
(some people want to have the Federal capital there
also) and crowds it with official buildings ami official
population so that poor people are herded together
by reason of the pressure. No doctor with fore-
sight to balance his philanthropy should have failed
to see that on the first day of his political career.
(3) There is something grotesque in lamenting
about the lack of homes for the poor of Ultimo
while diverting the labor required for their construc-
tion on to loan jobs that are never expected to pay
even running expenses. It may be easy, but it isn’t
courageous nor specially honest.
It is pleasant to see a busy little man out
on a cold day carrying the porous-plaster of
sympathy and first-aid to those who have
fallen by the wayside in Ultimo. But it is
a poor finish to a political lifetime spent in
condoning the public sins which have made
N. S. Wales one part Ultimo and the other
part wilderness.
♦
While North-East N. S. Wales is building
a new State it should hustle early for a
good name—the thing that Solomon said
was better than riches. It is a big adver-
tisement when found, but it is hard to find.
In fact, sometimes it is easier to make a re-
public than to get a name for it. George
\\ ashington’s country is anonymous to
•l n ?T Jt isn’t naming a place to call
it United States, for all States are united
except those that are otherwise. The term
is mere ordinary description, just as if
i le repubiic was called Undulating Ground.
And it isn’t naming a place to call it
America when it is only a part of America
not even the biggest part—the solid
British stretch of Canada-Newfoundland-
Labrador beats it. The other name of the
pl&ce is the Union, ’ but that mav also
mean a marriage or an English poorhouse
Some early patriots thought the United
States would find a name of their own some
ifj “Ot merel y. put a big “U” and a
big S before a pair of words which were
as hackneyed as corned-beef; but they
didn’t. The famous seven United Provinces
had at least alternative designations—Hol-
land and the Js etherlands—so that when the
amphibious Dutchman got on the deck of
what was as much a ship as a country, and
sounded the well to see if the nation was
leaking, and pumped it out and heaved the
anchor and the lead and the sidelights he
had the satisfaction of knowing there was „
distinctive sign on the bows.
A growl from the bridge:—
Time the shipmaster got a chance to appeal
against the decisions of Marine Courts. G rea t
Britain and Maoriland already possess Marine Courts
of Appeal, but the only chance a shipmaster in dis
tress has in Australia is to petition the State
Governor for a re-hearing. If the Governor grants
the re-hearing the unfortunate shellback finds him
self up against the same Judge and assessors who
tried him before, and they are not likely to upset
their own judgment. This re-hearing farce has been
tried by unfortunate shipmasters clutching at any
straw to save their tickets ; but it has only resulted
in more costs. Ancient mariners of the auto-
cratic type, with no experience of modern
steamboat conditions, often “sit” on cases thev are
not competent to judge. These old “whales” are the
sort of men who will “concur” with the lion-technical
Judge on the slightest provocation. What is wrong
with selecting assessors from among the nrinv
mariners—regardless of rank—actively employed on
vessels in port at the time? Personally I would
sooner be tried by fo’c’s’le Jack than by one of my
own cloth. 1 would get more generous treatment
Seamen are crying out for the Commonwealth Navi-
gation Act to be put into active operation. I under-
stand that a Marine Court of Appeal is embodied in
that Act, and it is up to the authorities to see that
it is not hampered with “permanent” assessors such
as retired skippers, or those in cushy jobs ashore,
who will “assess” until the hearse arrives. It takes
seven years to make a master mariner; but one
minor court Judge with a wig on and two without
can unmake him in half-an-hour. Consider tht
difference in the treatment of the solicitor and the
mariner in this respect. It takes a Full Bench of
Supreme Court Judges to shift the solicitor.
“Calliope” visions a new State, too:
Central Queensland possesses one of the finest
harbors in Australia, but it is without a port worth
calling a port. Gladstone has the harbor and the
situation, but Rockhampton, 70 miles north, has
the population and the pull. Years ago Rock-
hampton wanted a port, but, being jealous of Glad-
stone, a port in Kcppel Bay somewhere near the
Fitzroy River mouth was the only thing it would
accept. Keppel Bay offers little scope for a harbor.
There the only accessible deep water is in tidal
creeks traversing mosquito-infested mangrove swamps
which spring-tides cover for miles. But the late
Wally Kioston, then member for Rockhampton and
Premier of Queensland, decided that there would
have to be a harbor on Raglan Creek, so a railway
line was built over the mangrove swamps, wharves
were erected, and there burst into view Port Alma,
“the deep sea port for Central Queensland.” To day
Port Alma is dying. The inter-State shipping com-
panies refuse to carry cargo to or from it. The odd
times when a boat does call labor has to be brought
down 40 miles and paid in full from the time
it leaves Rockhampton until it returns. Neither
the wharf-laborer nor anyone else will live at the
place. And so Rockhampton wants still another
port—any old port bar Gladstone. But the crowd,
which for half a century dominated Queensland, and
ran the State in the interests of the centralists—
the gang that bent the main North-Western line
away from Bowen and the main Central-Western
line away from Gladstone—has ceased to exist, and
the Administration of to-day, with all its faults, is
making an honest effort to g:et away from parish-
pump influences. A railway line to open up the
hinterland of Gladstone has been passed by both
Houses of Parliament, and the construction of
\vhalves and jetties is now in progress. For years
past the whole of C.Q.’s chief export (wool) has
been railed a thousand miles to Brisbane. What
the province needs next is a direct line connecting
Gladstone with the main Central-West railwav and
the establishing of that harbor as its port.* New
industries and a new State will follow.
These are anxious times for Australian
Ministries. Hughes’s majority is in the
balance at Ballarat; Storey’s fate is in-
volved in a petition concerning a matter of
■ r >3 votes at Balmain (N.S.W.), his own
electorate ; and if the Ministerial candidate is
beaten for Alexandra (S.A.) the Barwell
Government will be up against it hard. And
Iheodore and Fihelly are not feeling happy
m Queensland either. Not only does the
political barometer indicate stormy weather,
but there is a £9,000.000 loan to extract
trom a strangely frigid and inquisitorial
Uohen whose other name is Bull. Only
Mitchell (W.A.) and Lee (Tas.) are moder-
ately comfortable, and they are in the hands
of Israel, too.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
wHo would earn over
£5.000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The Bulletin’s Federal gallery-man:
Hughes no doubt held Watt’s resignation, but
kept it dark with a view to securing its withdrawal
by concessions on the alleged “points” on. which the
pair were at variance. That, of course, is Hughes s
method of getting forward. But anything that Hughes
could have given away would only postpone the
inevitable breach. The plain truth is that Watt and
Hughes can’t work together. When an egotist col-
lides with an autocrat, chaos supervenes. Hughes
and Watt are thoroughly sick of one another, and
the difference has been accentuated on Watt’s side
by the pressure put upon him to travel to London.
He never wanted to go—he actually fought for
Milieu to make the trip—and when he finally con-
sented he left behind a signed nomination paper in
case of an election during his absence.
When Hughes returned from the Peace
Conference he publicly referred to President
Wilson as “God Almighty” and “the Deity.”
After the meeting Watt went round among
the reporters asking them not to publish
the gaucheries of his leader, and but one
paper did. Which helps to explain things. A
time comes when the overworked junior
partner, however loyal, gets tired of apologis-
ing for his jarring and tactless chief. Watt
got tired a good while ago.
There was an unusually imperative in-
timation in Sydney last month that anybody
who wanted a telephone or gas-meter might
just all well ask for the great white throne of
Heaven pending the arrival of new shipments
from Timbuctoo, the Australian having de-
voted himself to wharf-lumping and never
learned to make such apparatus. And then
electric heating was turned off five days a
week because new boilers and lots of other
things required at the Sydney Council works
and on order from Iceland have been delayed,
and Australia hasn’t learned to make these
things either. So the baby froze while its
unskilled father hustled for the coolie loan-
job of patching the Parramatta-road. And if
the people who now run the “Labor” move-
ment have their way the baby will grow up
'to be a coolie also.
It being obvious that the Northern Terri-
tory wants Parliamentary representation, it
is suggested to give it one Senator all to
itself. Taking Tasmania (six Senators to
215,000 people) as a basis, the Territory is
entitled to about one-seventh of a Senator;
taking N. S. Wales as a basis it is entitled
to about one-seventieth of a Senator. As
a matter of fact, there is no basis; but one
thing certain is that a lone Senator is little
use to man or beast. If he joins the Oppo-
sition it will amount to two members, which
is futile. If he joins the Government its
majority will be 36 instead of 35, which is
painting the lily. A solitary Representa-
tive, on the other hand, might hold the
balance and lead a strenuous life; and as
the Reps, initiate most of the legislation,
that is where a vigorous man wants to be.
Robinson Crusoe from the North might
become Prime Minister there. After all,
it would be better to act generously and give
the Territory a member in each House,
with a promise of more as population in-
creases. The North represents the Future
of Australia if it gets a fair chance. it
stands, or should stand, for lostentj.
And Posterity has so many debts coming to
it that it deserves to be represented.
Having pawned its immortal soul to
Cohen, the Queensland Labor party nas
reached the point where loans matter more
than Labor policy, and so we read that, in
deference to Cohen, “Mr. Theodore is con-
sidering the suspension of his land legisla-
tion and the introduction of a more moder-
ate policy generally.” Theodore is in London
begging another loan of £9,000,000, and that
is Cohen’s extra consideration for letting
him have it. It is a sinister result of the
borrowing madness, but anyone might have
foreseen it. Every foreign loan involves a
sacrifice of liberty. Eternal solvency is the
price of self-government.
McWilliams, chairman of the Federal
Country party, is beginning to talk
like a prospective Prime Minister. lie
can remember when Alfred Deakin held
the Treasury benches in a three-party
House with the rump of a party,
and a weak rump at that; moreover,
the Agrarian leader reckons he can count on
11 votes in the Senate, and Deakin got along
with three or four. But McWilliams isn t
a Deakin. And he hasn’t Deakin’s friends.
Gregory is the only man in the Country
party with Ministerial experience, and as it
TEMPTATION.
“The Parliamentary Labor party has decided in favor of reversion to single-member electorates on
the first-past-the-post principle. Many members of the National Parliamentary party are known to hold
similar views.” —Sydney TELEGRAPH.
THE SMALL BANK MESSENGER: “ Something tells me that I’m liable to strike trouble
before I reach the Bank of Next Election."
is nine years since Gregory was in office he
has got out of the habit. In effect, a McWil-
liams Ministry would afford the spectacle of
a minority scrambling about in strange jobs
under a leader who has yet to make good.
Its first argument with the majority would
be its last.
When the various State Ministers in
charge of Lands told Millen how much they
would want next year for repatriation, he
was so astounded that he would not publish
the aggregate amount. Alec Hean, of the
Speck, has since blown the gaff by saying
that the total was between £00,000,000 and
£70,000,000. Millen told the Ministers to go
home and come back on June 28 with another
guess. If they don’t produce it there
will be a mighty slump in soldier-settlement
in N. S. Wales and Victoria. The Common-
wealth will simply say that it intends to do
this kind of repatriation in Westralia and
Queensland and on Crown land. It could
be done even more cheaply and with better
prospects of success in the Northern Ter-
ritory, where the Commonwealth owns
315,000,000 acres. But that is an idea that
doesn’t seem to occur to Millen; and that
incorrigible Freetrader long ago said that
Australia didn’t want manufacturing indus-
tries, or words to that effect.
The Prince will shortly throw a bottle of
wine at the eleventh cargo steamer launched
in Australia within two years, and 10 more
are under construction —four of them bOUU-
tonners, by Walker’s, Ltd., of Maryborough
(Q.). The Australian workman is building-
steel ships on piecework at £29 a ton; the
British price is £36 a ton, and the American
£4O. Australia can do things when it tries
and the imported strife-monger lets it.
A harmless-looking proposal which is
really loaded is that railway construction in
N S. Wales should be taken out of the
hands of the Railway Commissioners and
put under the Minister for Works. A Com-
missioner has an eye to economy and good
work, for he has to try to make the thing
earn interest on its cost afterwards, 'lhe
Minister has an eye to such judicious extra-
vagance as will please the employees whose
votes he wants at next election, and would
hate to sack a valuable supporter for doing
bad work.
The W.A. Licensing Act (passed in
1911) gave the trade time-compensation for
10 years, and gave it in advance. The term
will expire next April, when the State will
have its first local option poll, and both
sides are organising for a bitter struggle.
For some years every election- in which
Derrink was an issue has gone against the
wowser interest, and Bung is calmly con-
fident, more especially as W.A. has a greater
proportion of returned soldiers than most
countries. And the M.L. experience shows
that the average Digger is fed up with Cold
Tea.
If the Cocky party is really earnest in
denouncing the recent salary-grab it has
only to nominate for Ballarat, make poli-
tical honesty the battle-cry and win a seat.
With the end of the mining industry and the
growth of a large agricultural section in
the surrounding country, the Cockies would
probably have as good a chance for the seat
as either of the other political crowds. At
the present moment, with McGrath backing
and filling on the salary question and Kerby
voting in the House for the impropriety, the
seat seems a gift to bi’other Hayseed.
With a weak, popularity-hunting Govern-
ment, located in a huge city where big, angry
deputations can always be raised, the voice
of the people isn’t the voice of the ballot-box.
It is the one which shouts in the Ministry’s
ear. and if the voice has a brick in its hand
and a hostile look in its eye and thick boots
on its feet it carries weight. So it came
to pass that when the Storey Ministry in-
vented loan work for 100 unemployed at
Demondrille, 234 miles from the capital,
130 local men, many of them with families,
applied, only to learn that men from Syd-
ney, and largely single men, were already
on the job. If they hadn't been thus got
rid of they might have been nasty in Sydney
and taken possession of the Parliamentary
gallery while the men of Demondrille were
at a safe distance. By way of apology, it
was explained that the intention was to give
only 50 of the jobs to Sydney men, though
even on a population basis 41 was their
share. And some people might reckon that
as Sydney men have first chance at the
tramway repairs and the patching, of the
Parramatta-road and hadn’t lost their crops
in the drought, they had no claim on any
share at all. But even the poor little inten-
tion fell through.
The Communists are the German Bolshe-
vists, and at the German elections last week
the Communists won two seats —two out of
460. No doubt the Russian proportion is
larger, but Lenin will be in no hurry to
prove it at a plebiscite. He will continue,
instead, to build his faith upon the holy text
of bomb and gun.
From the Federal lobbies: —
Interesting to notice the growing importance of
Captain Brute, M.H.R. This is his second Parlia-
ment and he is already regarded as a prospective
Minister. The fact that he has been seriously pro-
posed as a successor to Watt shows the respect that
a man of integrity, education and business acumen
can command without any political or personal
flourish. Bruce is the most unobtrusive member in
the House, and speaks with an independence that is
doubtless increased by the fact that ho doesn’t want
the money, lie would probably make a good
Treasurer; but he wouldn’t take a portfolio unless
he could see his way clear to give his whole time to
the job—and that is doubtful owing, to his responsi-
bilities as head of Paterson, Laing and Bruce. And
it is equally doubtful whether Hughes would give
him the billet for fear of offending his Ma State
supporters, particularly Lamond and Fleming, who
are said to be next on the list for promotion.
“It is easy to govern a country if one is
honest,” said N.S.W. Premier Storey in
the recent election campaign. Since then
his local admirers have entertained him at
Balmain and emphasised the fact that John
never stole a dog in his life and could be
trusted with the collection-plate any day.
His friend T. T. Ryan said he was “up right
and down straight,” and John described him-
self as a plain man who had “just drifted
along.” It is a weary business, this dwell-
ing on honesty as the Premier’s one out-
standing characteristic. There are, maybe.
100,000 honest men in the State; but very
few of them know how to drag out of the
pit a State half as big again as France,
with not enough people to make a first-
class city, but with over £300.000,000 of
State and Federal debt, nearly 3000
miles of railway that loses money all the
time, a huge deficit, a drought, a secession
movement, a One Big Union preaching
revolution, and a lot of unemployed. In
fact, if there is one person, no matter what
gaol he may inhabit, who can do it, he
should be pardoned ami made Premier at
once. Mere honesty will no more do it
than it will paint a masterpiece or make
an engine.
THE PUZZLED PREMIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The N. S. Wales Labor extremists propose to oust
the Storey Government it the principles expressed
in the Premier’s ‘go slow’ speech delivered a week
after he took office are adhered to.”
The carpenters recently made up their minds
No longer on Saturday mornings to toil ;
The makers of bedsteads and boilers and blinds
Are also reluctant their week-ends to spoil
By superfluous graft.
So, with praiseworthy craft,
They mean to go slow on their jobs, big and small,
Till urged not to work upon race-days at all.
The shipbuilding unions are doing the same;
The wheelwrights incline to a forty-hour week;
The railwuy and tramway employees are game
To strike if they don’t get the pay that they seek;
Or, at least, to go slow —
And of course we all know
The meaning of that. They will get what they ask
Provided they ease up enough on their task.
Yet I, who their views in the House represent,
Am fiercely assailed if I dare to go slow:
My democrat friends give their anger full vent
And I’m told I must either move faster or go.
1 suppose it’s all right,
But. 1 cannot see quite
Why that which in them is a virtue should be
A damnable outrage when practised by me.
N.S.W.
B. FOGGED.
HIS LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is understood that Mr. Watt’s reasons for
resigning from the post of Treasurer are embodied
in a letter now on the way to Mr. Hughes.” —Daily
paper.
Dear Billy, —Thought you might be pleased to know
We found old London in the same old spot;
Silk hats, frock coats and spats are comme il faut
The town is crowded and the weather’s hot;
The Home Rule Bill is certain to be carried,
And Dolly Brunton says she isn’t married.
I dined in Downing-street the other night;
Milner was host: polite enough, but stiff.
To-morrow I am fixed to eat a bite
With —hang it, I forget him ; some old ziff
(You can’t recall the Tadpoles and the Tapers) !
I’ve made a good impression on the papers.
Your old friend Fisher’s looking pretty well;
Tell Miller he’s to get his accolade;
The Northcote rags are giving L.-G. h —l;
They have revived the Empire promenade;
The workers rave about the price of porter,
And women’s skirts, if anything, are shorter.
I had a hurried chat with Austen C.
About the German money. “Ten,” I said,
“Ten million is the least -that we’ll agree
To take, and that this year.” He shook his head.
“Watt,” he replied, “old chap, you must be dream-
ing.”
And then he asked me where they throttled Deeming.
Clemenceau’s paid a visit to Algiers.
L.-G., they say, has fallen out with Foch.
The House of Commons bores a man to tears —
It talks the most unutterable bosh.
I’m well, and so’s the wife, and that is nearly
All I can write at present.—Yours sincerely.
P.S. —I might as well inform you now,
This is my resignation. I am through!
I hate to be connected with a row,
But, frankly, Bill, I’m deadly tired of you ;
So henceforth count me out. Sorry to trouble you,
But this is final.—W.A.W.
X.S.W.
B.


MELBOURNE: THE MORNING AFTER.
Squatter Woolpnck kept the toothbrush
which H.R.11. dropped during his visit to (he
station. It is Mr. Woolpack's intention on his
death to leave the sacred relic to the nation.
Though the Prince has left Melbourne many
are still seeing hint frequently.
The footmark left by the
Prince during his call on the
Cash bag family is bound to
be of great historical value.
Mr. Cashbag has had it care-
fully fenced in for the
benefit of tourists.
Teddy's visit has had a marked effect on
Melbourne manners. The royal glad left
hand has been adopted by the Naice9t sets.
-e
4?*
„ v
O <P v°
e>-
,jS -0°
o^V
* V >V’
/>
v
It was altogether a great time.
Even the official residence has not
recovered its'equilibrium.
Neither have the Gent. Helps. The
necessity of clearing up the mess
compelled the unhappy creacbahs to
WORK.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in tile following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious’Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc_Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE —
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE *.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridges
£15,000,000.
THE TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE CONTROL OF
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
EXCEED THIS FIGURE,
Thus Showing the Confidence in which it is held by the Public.
THIS COMPANY OFFERS MANY
ADVANTAGES OVER THE
PRIVATE TRUSTEE.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET SETTING
OUT PARTICULARS OF ITS
METHODS AND CHARGES.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Provided Added
for to In-
Ex- Depreci- surance
Dec , Income. Claims. penses. ation. Fund.
1906. . £466,32-6 £335,946 £104,564 £25,816
1907.. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908.. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
1909.. 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Life business secured.
1916*.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1911.. 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912.. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913.. 627,143 284,568 158,571 10,143 173,861
1914.. 628,243 327,210, 125,362 11,182 164,489
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1916.. 649,440 367,261 99,698 10,724 171,757
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,175 202,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
1919.. 790,102 434,797 129,775 5,680 219,950
The Colonial Mutual has a move on again.
Established 47 years ago, it got together a
good volume of business and then became
tired. Just when it was regaining a little
energy it experienced some internal dissen-
sion, resulting in Government inspectors be-
ing appointed to overhaul its affairs. Though
the X-rays disclosed no mortal defect, the
mere fact of the examination did the Society
no good for the time being. Unscrupulous
agents distorted the facts, and even only a
few weeks ago—seven years after the trouble
—the “Wild Cat” was asked by a new
policy-holder “whether it is a fact that the
Auditor-General has been requested to in-
quire as to the soundness of the Colonial
Mutual.” One result of the disturbance was
the falling-off of the volume of new busi-
ness written; but there was a substantial
spurt in the figures for the past 12 months:
New Assurances.
1909 .. £1,101,059 1915 .. £1,298,248
1911 .. 3,093,797 1916 .. 1.520,361
1912 .. 3,227,737 1917 .. 1,937,242
1913 . . 2,043,234 1918 . . 1,654,400
1914 . . 1,644,064 1919 . . 2,207,923
Though last year £164,000 more assurances
were placed on the books than in 1913, the
improvement is not so good as it looks, for
the 1919 new business represented only 7213
policies compared with 8827 six years
previously. New policy-holders are thus
nowadays seeking an average cover of £306
instead of £231 in 1913. To rejuvenate
itself the Colonial Mutual will need to rope
in a still greater number of new policy-
holders. Because of war and ’flu troubles
the claims rates lately have been abnormal,
but even in its year of record new business
(1912), because so many old policies had
reached the claims stage, the outgo to policy-
holders represented no less than 52 p.c. of
gross income; last year it was 55 p.c.
The new business drive seven or eight
years ago resulted in a substantially-
increased expense rate, which fell off again
as the volume of new assurances decreased :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 ..£2l 17 10 p.c. 1914 ..£l9 19 3 p.c.
1909 .. 18 0 7 „ 1915 .. 14 19 7 „
1910 . . 20 16 4 „ 1916 .. 15 7 0 „
1911 . . 26 16 8 „ 1917 . . 16 6 4 „
1912 . . 29 14 5 „ 1918 . . 15 0 4 „
1913 .. 29 5 8 „ 1919 .. 16 8 6 „
Partly for the reason that the public is
seeking increased cover, and no doubt also
because of the artificial prosperity aiding
canvass, new business is now being written
much more cheaply. Assuming that 7 p.c.
of renewal premiums is a reasonable charge
for handling old business and 3 p.c. a fair
charge against annuity income, then by re-
garding the balance of expenses as
of writing new business last year £97,079
was expended in securing £97,468 of first-
year premiums. Here is a comparison on
this basis over the past seven years:—
New Premiums. Cost.
1913 .. .. £76,118 172 p.c.
1914 .. .. 64,082 153 „
1915 .. .. 51,766 125 ~
1916 .. .. 63,336 113 „
1917 .. .. 78,421 107 „
1918 .. .. 68,577 113 „
1919 . . . . 97,468 100 „
In 1913 the whole of the first-year premiums
and over three-quarters of the second year’s
were absorbed wholly by expenses, leaving
nothing to set aside to meet the liability
accruing on each new policy. Now, how-
ever, the first year’s premiums cover the
total cost of a policy, and provision for its
old age commences early in its second year.
Along with this improvement in the new
business cost has been a betterment of in-
come from investments; interest earnings
on average funds having moved in this way
over the past 10 years:—
1910 ..£4 310 p.c. | 1915 .. £4 911 p.c.
1911 .. 4 5 9 „ | 1916 .. 410 5 „
1912 ..4511,, 191/ . . 410 11 „
1913 .. 4 810 „ ! 1918 •. *l3lO „
1914 .. 4 910 „ | 1919 .. 416 0 „
The improvement since the war began alone
means £14,700 more p.a. on present funds
of over 4f millions. But not only has the
rate of interest earned improved, but because
of the opportunity to invest in public securi-
ties carrying high interest, the funds (in-
cluding those of the Industrial dept.) are
now laid out in a much more satisfactory
wav :
1904. 1914. 1919.
Public securities and
debentures . . . . 9.5 p.e. 22.7 p.c. 04.7 p.c.
Mortgages .. .. 39.2 „ 37.3 „ 17.3 ~
Freeholds, etc. . . 23.8 „ 21.9 „ 16.6 ~
Cash and deposits . . 5.7 ~ 5.5 ~ 2.6 ~
Other assets .. .. 21.8 ~ 12.6 ~ 8.8 ~
Five years ago £1,441,303 was out in mort-
gages, but though total assets have since
expanded £1,395,500 mortgage loans have
decreased to £907,838. The investments have
been improved in another way during the
past 10 years; as the table shows, there
has been a considerable writing-down of
book values. A further £lO.OOO was writ-
ten off properties as at Dec. 31 last, of
which only £5580 is shown in the accounts,
the balance apparently representing recover-
ies for which credit was not taken.
These big figures and records of improve-
ments all look very well, but they do not
touch the matter of the security which the
Colonial Mutual is able to offer its policy-
holders. Actuary Pullar testifies on that
vital point. Calculating liabilities under
policies on the basis of funds earning only
£3 10s. p.c. p.a. in future, he estimated that
the society should have had £4,6*6,000 of
funds as at Dec. 31 last. The balance-
sheet shows that there was £4,770,487 in
hand ; wherefore the actuary is able to dis-
close a surplus of £124,787. Of this he
recommends the distribution of £93,497, com-
pared with £75,602 for the previous year;
so improved bonuses show up again, the latest
distributions ranging from 455. p.c. to 20s.
p.c. on participating policies, compared with
355. to 17s. Gd. p.c. for the previous couple of
years.
The Accident branch income increases
very slowly : —•
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6.460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 .. 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 . . 10,517 3103 4546 2868
1915 .. 12,250 3480 5978 2792
1916 . . 13,238 4275 6110 2853
1917 .. 13.550 4451 6438 2661
1918 . . 13,971 4578 6498 2895
1919 .. 15,917 6045 7063 2809
The total of that last column does not give
the amount of funds now actually in hand,
for this department also makes bonus dis-
tributions. and they have not been taken
into consideration above. Apart from vari-
ous reserves for unexpired risks, etc., there
were at December 31 accumulated profits of
£15,455. and of that £2987 has been allotted
by the actuary to provide an all-round bonus
of 2 p.c. to benefits.
The position of the Industrial department
is being rapidly improved:—
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1909 .. £3,481 £39 £14,587 £11,145
Funds.
Brought in from the Standard, £22,000 10,855
Deficit.
1910 . . 54,908 3,483 92,844 30,564
1911 . . 60,484 6,254 66,630 42,964
1912 . . 77,516 7,710 62,755 35,913
1913 . . 86,155 9,356 53,556 12,670
Funds.
1914 .. 97,036 15,476 49,623 19,267
1915 . . 104,807 18,809 48,735 56,530
1916 .. 121,308 15,616 51,245 110,977
1917 .. 138,458 21,530 48,284 179,621
1918 .. 155,253 20,158 50,595 264,121
1919 . . 174,605 20,096 57,405 361,225
Until a few years ago the business was
horribly costly, but gradually exes, have
been got down until for the past year only
6s. 7d. in the £ of premiums, compared
with 12s. sd. in 1913, was absorbed in writ-
ing and handling policies. That expense
rate is better than many other big offices
can show. But the department has not yet
become quite self-supporting. As at Decem-
ber 31 there were 94.150 policies on the
books assuring £2,630,797, and the actuary
estimated £400,818 as the net liability as
at that date. The balance-sheet shows funds
amounting to £403,°25, but since £42,000
is represented only by an intangible “exten-
sion of organisation account” there is still
a leeway of about £37,600 to make up.
With luck it should not be long before there
are net tangible assets to meet the full
actuarial liability. The surplus on the past
year’s operations alone permitted the man-
agement to write down the account by
£14.500. Except for the amount represented
by the establishment account and a few odds
and ends, the whole of the Industrial funds
are held for investment by the Ordinary
branch.
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., stock
and station agents, etc. (Adelaide) :
To Nominal
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1908. .£10,629 7 p.c. = £5,250 £5,379 £23,919
Premiums on new shares.. 6,250 30,169
1909.. 6,473 7 p.c. = 6,392 81 30,250
1910.. 10,792 7 „ „ 6,562 4,230 34,480
1911.. 15,177 7 „ „ 6,562 8,615 43,095
1912.. 11,693 7 „ „ 6,562 5,131 48,226
1913.. 10,894 7 „ „ 7,910 2,984 51,210
1914.. 17,321 7 „ „ 8,746 8,575 59,785
1915.. 7,548 6 „ ~ 8,562 58,771
1916.. 22,890 7 „ ~10,938 11,952 70,723
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £14,350 * .. 56,373
1917.. 18,546 7 p.c. = 10,938 7,608 63,981
1918.. 25,211 10 „ „ 15,625 9,586 73,567
1919.. 28,080 10 ~ ~ 21,376 6,704 80,271
Premiums on new shares, £9OOO. . 89,271
1920.. 39,167 10 p.c. = 26,771 12,396 ) 96 667
Provident fund, £5OOO .. .. (
That table goes back to the time when the
co. decided to go into the wool business.
Formed 20 years earlier with a paid capital
of £20,000, it had been mostly interested in
livestock, but an amalgamation with a little
co. brought a couple of capable wool men into
the business. By 1908 paid capital had
grown to £75,000 and gross earnings for that
year were £44.715. Expansion has been so
rapid that paid capital is now five times as
great, and last year’s earnings had grown
to £123,670. At March 31 £39.591 of instal-
ments on the latest issue of 200,000 shares
to be paid to 12s. Gd. (bringing in £9OOO
of premiums) was outstanding; but though
paid capital had more than doubled during
the past two yt>ars alone, liabilities were
even more weighty than formerly. This
shows how the balance-sheet figures have
moved over the 12 years since the wool con-
nection was acquired:—
1908. 1915. 1918. 1920.
Capital .. £75,000 £156,250 £156,250 £335,409
Reserves .. 26,545 67,333 83.723 114,688
Liabilities . . 141,380 167,884 299,990 429,987
Book debts ) f 541,774
Public securi- 1 328,259 287,027 456,905 1
ties and cash J ( 227,552
Premises, j f 90,090 83,057 116,826
plant & stock f 105,533 i
Goodwill j ( 14,350 Nil Nil
Liabilities are thus almost as large as paid
capital and reserves (after payment of the
final div.) combined; but, no doubt, they
have been mostly incurred in connection
with the Commonwealth Government’s wool-
pooling arrangements. Because the magni-
tude of these operations is not disclosed
the balance-sheet figures are of little value
in disclosing the actual strength of the co.
Maybe since Government-financed clips have
been handled the co.’s advances to clients
from its own funds have been reduced, and
in consequence its risks are now smaller.
But whatever advances the co. has made
on its own account are probably well pro-
tected by provisions made during the years
when only moderate divs. were distributed
and from recent fat profits. In addition,
during the past 10 years, besides wiping out
£14,350 of goodwill and paying an average
div. of 7f p.c. p.a., £62.187 has gone to
visible reserves. The most notable feature
of the latest balance-sheet is that, though at
March 31 an amount in excess of half the
total of shareholders’ funds was in Govern-
ment securities, deposits and cash, a 10
p.c. div. on the greatly-enlarged capital was
paid with ease.
Of the past year’s profits £5OOO has been
used to create a staff provident fund, which
is also being augmented in an unusual way:
two of the co.’s directors (Harold W.
Hughes and J. Lewis) having each donated
£lOOO for the purpose. The report adds that
“a further considerable advantage will
accrue later on from the estate of the late
Herbert W. Hughes.”
# * * »
The Equitable Permanent Benefit
Building, Land and Savings Institution
(Sydney) :
Written Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1909.. £9,933 12 p.c. = £8,451 £455 £40,578
1910.. 10,741 9 „ „ 6,338 760 44,221
1911.. 11,835 9 „ „ 6,338 100 49,618
1912.. 12,805 15 „ ~ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on new shares, £1942.. 53,438
1913.. 12,365 9 p.c. = 7,204 88 58,511
1914.. 18,890 9 „ ~ 8,401 80 68,920
1915.. 15,108 15$ „ „ 14,395 25 69,608
1916.. 15,187 10 ~ „ 9,390 22 75,383
1917.. 14,776 10 „ „ 9,390 3 80,766
1918.. 14,476 16 „ ~ 15,024 80,218
1919.. 15,254 10 „ „ 9,390 3 86,079
1920.. 16,134 12 „ „ 11,268 90,945
“Throughout the year the Board has been
inundated with applications for advances,”
says the directors’ report. That has been
a common experience with metropolitan
building societies, and in congested Sydney
in particular, notwithstanding inflated
land values and high building costs, the
volume of business offering has been un-
precedented. The house famine and high
rents have driven many people who were
formerly content to rent a home to acquire
their own house-property on the t.-p. plan,
and the artificial prosperity created by war
spendings has also given many more the
opportunity of finding the necessary small
initial deposits. The rush of customers to
the building societies is thus easily accounted
for. During the war years these cos. could
have written much more business if they had
cared to, and had funds been available but
most managements decided to wait till the
clouds cleared before tailing advantage o
the unusual opportunities. The Equitable
curtailed its new advances considerably, but
is now hitting out again:
1910 .. £76,622 ) 1916 .. £71,907
1912 .. 115,455 1917 . . 85,482
1913 . . 116,687 1918 . . 75,79/
1914 104,825 1919 .. 97,918
1915 . . 82,093 1920 . . 120,072
That record parcel of new mortgages for the
past year is said to consist of carerul y
selected business: and certainly the manage-
ment lias been in a position to pick an
choose its securities. Total inortgages out-
standing now amount to £346,103, or £9051
more than the pre-war record. But though
£38,637 was earned in interest for the 12
months to March 31, compared with £05,13b
for 1914, net profits are slightly under what
they were six years ago, owing chiefly to
the fact that income-taxes now call for
£2635 as against £568. Shareholders can,
however, have no complaints, for on theii
paid capital the latest profits are equivalent
to over 17 p.c., though since accumulated
profits are now not far short of paid capital,
profits are equal to only 8J p.c. on total
shareholders’ funds in the business. During
recent years the management has made a
habit of paying regular 10 p.c. p.a. divs.
and distributing something extra every three
years. According to programme the
additional bite would be due at the close of
the current year, but “the official declara-
tion of the close of the war” has been made
an excuse for giving shareholders an extra
2 p.c. at once.
Since shareholders’ capital and reserves
as at March 31 totalled £186,723 and mort-
gages alone amounted to £346,103, the
Equitable was depending a lot on outsiders.
Depositors had entrusted it with £217,027,
and all other liabilities amounted to £1257.
But the management was not lending to its
full capacity. Besides the mortgages and
freehold premises (book value, £18,649),
assets included £lB,OOO of public securities,
£16.000 of “temporary investments” and
£6255 of bank shares. Creditors are well
protected; to meet their £178.029 not cov-
ered by liquid assets there were the £346,103
of mortgages and the premises. In other
words, there were assets with a book value
of over £2 to meet every £ owing to deposi-
tors and other creditors. So far as share-
holders are concerned conditions at present
are in every way favorable for handsome
returns. Ever since the effects of the State
borrowing boom of 10 years ago began to be
felt they have done very well indeed. But
borrowing booms are likely to be “off” dur-
ing the coming years. How the co. will
fare then is uncertain, for many people are
likely to feel depressed when the bubble is
pricked. Shareholders’ capital, however,
should be safe enough under very adverse
conditions because of the very substantial
reserves which have been accumulated.
There may be a dull and anxious time ahead,
but if the Equitable can nurse its securities
successfully during that period there should
be further good prospects in the distance.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
_ . lnl „ I £902 10 p.c. = £545 £357 £11,091
bept., 1913. . Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,591
Mar., 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
„ . , Q 1 . ( 927 10 „ „ 550 377 11,432
Sept., 1914. . Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Mar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
o , iniK f 891 15 „ „ 868 23 11,172
be Pt-. •) written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Sept., 1916.. 882 15 „ „ 850 32 10,855
Mar., 1917.. 986 15 „ „ 850 136 10,991
Sept., 1917.. 1023 15 „ „ 787 236 11,227
Mar., 1918.. 856 15 „ „ 787 69 11,296
a . iqi a 1 983 15 „ „ 795 188 11,484
bept., lais. . £ Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,984
Mar., 1919.. 853 15 p.c. = 795 58 11,042
Sept., 1919.. 994 15 „ „ 795 199 11,241
Mar., 1920.. 863 15 „ „ 806 57 11,298
This little trustee co. is now in its 33rd
year, and for the first time the book value
of estates administered has exceeded a mil-
lion. For managing these trusts and col-
lecting the income on behalf of beneficiaries,
etc., during the past year it charged only
£3277 commission. From the investment of
its own funds it earned a further £952, total
income for the 12 months thus being £4229.
Exes, absorbed £2372, so there was a net
profit for the year of £1857, sufficient to
furnish a div. of 18£ p.c. on paid capital. But
since reserves exceed the amount paid up
on scrip, the return on shareholders’ funds
is only a mild 7f p.c. The co. is in a very
comfortable position : at March 31 it owed
but £l9O (and possibly a trifle for income-
tax). and of its total funds of £21,298.
£11,451 was represented by public securi-
ties, cash and book debts, £3OOO by the book
value of freehold premises, £7403 by mort-
gages, with the remainder in odds and ends.
These are the assets available for the pro-
tection of clients should carelessness in fol-
lowing instructions or any other trouble
result in the loss of trusts. If these funds
should not be ample to fill any holes, there
is a further £40.000 of uncalled capital for
which shareholders have made themselves
liable.


Dalgety 8 Company
Limited —
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4
7d. (minimum
11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
{7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil. Chili' and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. Citv 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager in "■-'•••■fin.
.... ~ 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. • This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. —Advt. [1
* * * »
All buyers of Copper Wires, Copper Cables, Copper
Busbars, Copper Rods, etc., are notified that, as
agents for Metal Manufactures, Ltd., Port Kembla,
N.S.W., we are now in a position to fill all orders
for same promptly. iSend to-day for particulars,
prices, etc., to Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Advt. [2
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. —Advt. [3
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August, 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory.
They are giving good results. Yours faithfully,
(Sft'd.) H. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for oiir
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Australian Parents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
• • » •
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.—Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collision & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
as for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* » * »
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy', flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”—Advt.
» ♦ • *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. —Advt.
ROTARY KILNS AND COM-
POUND GRINDING MILLS
By Ernest Newell & Co., Ltd.
Get Catalogues, etc., from
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne.
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'
SSSiSEia iw J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) :
Nominal
Written To Re- Ke-
May, Profits. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1910.. £10,863 10 p.c.= £6585 £3OOO £1278 £5,086
1911.. 10,909 10 „ „ ,6585 3000 1324 6,410
1912.. 11,960 10 „ „ 6585 3000 2375 8,785
1913.. 10,262 10 „ „ 6585 3000 677 9,462
1914.. 7,677 7) „ „ 4939 3000 9,200
1915.. 2,956 3| „ „ 2469 1500 8,187
1916.. 6,118 5 „ „ 3292 2500 326 8,513
1917.. 8,561 10 „ „ 6585 1976 8,513
1918.. 8,924 10 „ „ 6585 2000 339 8,852
1919.. 13,345 124 „ „ 8231 4000 1114 9,966
1920.. 11,014 10 „ „ 6585 2650 1779 11,745
Transferred to capital, £9150 .. 2,595
This co. is experiencing a run of good sea-
sons. As with the farmer, its harvests de-
pend on the weather, and during the past
few years Jupiter Pluvius has obliged by
damping the Yorke Peninsula (S.A.) lake-beds
to an extent which has coaxed them to exude
large supplies of good-quality salt. The
figures in the last line represent the trad-
ing on the 1918-19 crop, which was appa-
rently not quite so good as that for the
previous year. For the past season, however,
the directors report that “an excellent har-
vest in quantity and quality can be re-
corded,” so the current year’s trading should
•produce record results if everything works
out well. The local salt industry is in a
better position than it was in pre-war days.
In 1913 £45,484 of salt was imported, but
not only have the sources of supply been
disturbed, but the cost of production and
freights have made the imported product
more expensive. The new tariff has also
given local industry further protection by
increasing the general duty from 15 .p.c. to
30 p.c. So, despite extra outgoings, Castle
Salt has better chances now, though proiits
will always depend on erratic seasons.
Evidently in anticipation of brighter pros-
pects the directors propose issuing scrip
for £9150 of reserves, making the nominal
capital of £75,000 fully paid. This will
leave only £2595 of reserves, though they
are merely nominal because an unspecified
amount of goodwill is still included as an
asset. During the past two years £2OOO has
been written off this goodwill account, but
if it still exceeds £2595, then after the
bonus share issue there will not be tan-
gible assets to represent the whole of the
enlarged capital. In the past the directors
have not made any effort to build up sub-
stantial visible reserves: during the past
10 years, while shareholders have had
£58,441 in dividends, nominal reserves have
been strengthened by only £0059. The policy
of distributing an undue proportion of
visible earnings has had this effect on the
cash position :
1910. 1920.
Assets other than fixed property
and plant . . . . . . £23,449 £46,089
Liabilities . . 2,990 18,108
Surplus £20,459 £27,981
Fixed assets and goodwill .. £57,734 £55,950
The surplus of more or less liquid assets
has thus been visibly strengthened by only
£7522 in 10 years; wherefore to carry stocks
of almost twice the book value of those of
1910 the co. has now to lean on the bank
to the extent of £10,274. Meantime, judg-
ing by the balance-sheet figures, the man-
agement has not been socking away any
profits in properties or plant; fixed assets
stand in the books at practically the same
figure as 10 years ago, taking into considera-
tion the recent £2OOO clip off goodwill. The
management has thus done little more than
maintain plant and give shareholders an
average of slightly under 9 p.c. p.a. There
is not much to fall back upon should trouble
happen along, and that is an unsatisfactory
state of affairs for a co. which has been in
business 22 years. Certainly under these
circumstances the proposed capitalisation of
reserves is not justifiable. It is possible, of
course, that the £35,753 of stocks have been
valued on a very conservative basis, but
the accounts provide no evidence which
would justify that conclusion.
* * * *
Hard times this year have told on Edna
May Central. First was the water trouble
due to Edna May stopping its pumps. Next
>md more important, the grade of the ore in
the New and the Consolidated shoots has not
lived up to expectations. In the September
term the battery ran out a profit on work-
ing account of £BBl4, after writing off
£7G95 for development,, etc. Last half-year
there was a working loss of £SSS, after
writing off £6019 for development work and
£2lOB for pumping. So in the P. and L.
account a debit of £2312 shows up after
allowing £2685 for depreciation on plant; and
the appropriation account balance, despite
the premium on gold, is reduced from
£20,371 to £15,059 for the six months, after
paying a div. which took £3OOO. Since the
books were ruled off a further £4221 has
flowed in from gold premiums. N. E. Gib-
lin’s last report on the Central mine is not
exhilarating. He says the New shoot at
No. 5 is short, and bis successor Williams
endorses the verdict. Prospects are middling
on both the Eastern and the Southern reefs.
Williams considers he can get enough ore
at 225 ft. to cover costs until the main shaft
is down another lift. Rising on the New
reef at No. 5 should, he thinks, give him
a decent stock of fair-grade dirt, and when
he opens up the Consolidated shoots to the
east he will be able to build up reserves
and increase battery results. So he believes
the future outlook to be “fairly bright. ’’ But
what regulates everything is costs. These
ran out at nearly 525. per ton, of which
13s. 4d. per ton was for development, etc.,
4s. 9d. for drainage, 225. 4d. for mining,
and ss. lid. for depreciation. Williams has
a big heart to be full of hope an outgo
like that facing him.
* * * *
Block 50, Hampton Plains, where the
White Hope is domiciled, has a promising
second string in the Golden Hope. The
prospects of this show have steadily improved
during the last month or two, and, although
not nearly enough work has been done to
warrant a definite opinion as to its value,
its appearance is good. Two points in
its favor are a strong lode and consistent
payable values. Some experts prefer its
ore body to that of the White Hope.
Owing to a mistake in pegging. Boulder
No. l’s new option on Block 45. Hampton
Plains, has been shorn of some of its import-
ance. The prospectors marked out an area
of about 30 acres instead of the maximum
of 24 acres allowed by the Hampton Proper-
ties Co., and then, in blissful ignorance of
their blunder, started costeening. Several
pits were sunk, one showing some of the
best values being in ground which has since
been claimed by the other co. The two
Hampton cos., the Properties and Areas,
would probably be better off, and make more
friends and less enemies, if they abandoned
their present policy of grabbing every alter-
nate lease on the line of lode, and did busi-
ness on a royalty basis only.
Old Paringa, Kalgoorlie, having kept a
bit of cash in the locker and some calling
power, awoke when Hampton Plains boom
began. Lloyd Bloxsome cast an eye over
lease 108, north-west of the Celebration.
Surface indications were favorable, and his
conclusion was that the property was well
worth development. As the Paringa Co. has
an old-man-of-the-sea job at a Rhodesian
group of mines, it set out to form a Paringa
Celebration Syndicate, with £15,000 cash in
hand, to see if the Bloxsome shoot was worth
anything. But as every show north on
Block 50 —the Celebration included —looks
to be of the blue-duck breed, the spending of
cash is sure to be done in a very gingerly
way.
# * * #
Last year Ivanlioe (W.A.) made a profit
of £71,409, which included £41.220 premiums
on gold. Dividends (7s. 6d. per share)
absorbed £75,000. As usual, the year’s out-
lay on plant, development, etc. (£28,169).
has been written off, and the total expendi-
ture under these heads since the formation
of the co., amounting to £1,111,800. stands
in the balance-sheet at only £54,295, the
sum which was originally set aside as work-
ing capital. Working costs at 265. 2d. per
ton were nearly 3s. more than for the pre-
vious year, the increase being due to strikes,
scarcity of labor and increased prices for
stores. In their report the directors
announce that working costs have now risen
to such a point that without the premium
on gold it would no longer be possible to
make a profit on the average grade of the
reserves.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) is giving its
Victorious and Gimlet mines at Ora Banda
a last chance. The past year’s work on
both shows has been disappointing, poorer-
grade ore having been met. Latterly things
have gone from bad to worse, so some new
ground is now being tested in the hope of
avoiding disaster. Tributors continue in
possession of the co.’s other derelict at Kal-
goorlie, but they are getting very little
gold. Some shareholders recently urged the
Board to work this mine itself, but were
told that it would be too great a risk.
♦ * * *
The New Langi Logan, Ararat (Vic.),
crowd is not a bit depressed, although £148,000
has gone with not a divvy in return. There
is hope ahead, no doubt, if men will turn
up to see how much they can make in wages.
Bill Toole’s last campaign ended in a clean-
up of 1501 oz. from 1252 fathoms. So, with
the aid of premiums on gold, the co. is down
on to. the Id. call list. Toole has to make
his mine pay now or never. He has plenty
of room to move round after nuggets at and
about the junction of the big Langi Logan
lead and the Cathcart tributary. If no
enrichment is there things may go hard with
the show, unless the ancient currents dropped
all the gold into the lower section of the
Langi gutter to the south. This is Bryant’s
belief, and the reason he talks about the
South Langi’s superiority. On the other hand,
Toole says he has stuff packed away
north of No. 2 shaft workings. If so a lot of
the £148,000 sunk in the mine is not dead, for
by this time the wash in that section ought
to be in tip-top condition for cheap extrac-
tion. Work around the junction, according
to Toole, has proved a width of 480 ft. east
and west of good pay dirt. This reads like
a bit of old Rutherglen or Creswick mining,
where the fields of wash were big and the
gold splendid. Toole’s worry is that the
miner prefers to delve under more pleasant
conditions than in dirty deep-leads. Perhaps
the promise of a bit out of profits might lure
the miner.
The record of the Rose, Thistle and Sham-
rock (Vic.) since it got into H. W. Mal-
loek’s Collins-street office is 4193 tons for
42620 z., of which 168740 z. was snicked from
1612 tons during the past six months. The
Board has lived close up to income, for of
£9450 received from gold and pyrites
it passed__out £4OOO to shareholders, and
spent £5550 on mine work and £OOB on
plant. This was possible because the co.
started the term with £l6OO cash, but the
half-year closed with only £635 in the till.
The co. needs all the stiffening given by the
good prospects showing in the reef off the
Shamrock shaft. So far as reserves go
Nos. 2, 3 and 4 levels at .the Landtax shaft
are intact, with a fair width of -stone in a
relatively short shoot to come and go on.
But why, when Mallock talks about the
large reserves of ore in the mine, does he
not state the quantities? Until he sets out
tonnages and values he cannot expect to
dispel the market yarn that the mine is a
little-go.
* * *
It ought to be called the Mount Mitchell
Dish Prospects Tin Mines, for no proper
boring has been done to prove tin in any
.quantity worth talking about. The pro-
moters frankly state one of the objects of
the co. is “to acquire the leases (2160 acres)
and to ascertain their values by boring and
shaft-sinking.” And for this the vendor
takes 2-sths of the share capital of £15,000
and the public is asked to put up £9OOO.
The property is near Glen Innes (N.S.W.).
One prospector got dish prospects on the
surface “in a few places” in Rooney’s Gully,
and reports yields as high as half a pound to
the dish and “several that would give from
71b. to 141 b. to the cub. yd.” Another pros-
pector with a dish got “very encouraging
prospects” and “highly payable results” at
a depth of from 3ft. to 7ft.
* * * *
The old Lucknow field, near Orange
(N.S.W.), which produced 20 tons gold
from 50 acres ground, is likely to be heard
from again. Local people are at work on
the south-east extension of the field, which
the geologists regard as likely country. Most
of the ground there-around has been pegged,
but what a flutter there would be if old
golden Lucknow, which nowadays consists
of 13 miles of waterlogged shafts, produced
a new punch!
* * * *
Reports and accounts for the 12 months
to December 31 last for Taiping and North
Taiping, two Miles shows (the Cap’n and
three of His family find berths in both con-
cerns), have drifted in from Penang
(F.M.S.) headquarters. Both cos. talk in
dollars, piculs and catties; but in plain
English the figures show Taiping to have
treated 872,000yd5. for a 12oz. average. A
boom market gave an average money value
of 11.7 d. per yd., and as total costs absorbed
only 4.64 d. there was a handsome profit.
But there was no div., the balance of ap-
proximately £21,177 left after making depre-
ciation allowances being carried forward.
The co. acquired the old Deebook dredge at
Renong, and has yet to settle for that and
meet a loan from the Eastern Smelting Co.,
total debts amounting to about £49,590.
Paid capital is approximately £117,650. So
there is some distance to go before the slate
can be wiped clean. With two dredges at
work, early development troubles out of the
way and better ground ahead, general-man-
ager Syd Miles talks of Taiping settling
down to a “long and prosperous life.”
North Taiping holds 365 acres, close bor-
ing on 150 of which has proved 6| million
c. yds., 78 acres going 17.90 z. and 72 acres
averaging 14.50 z. If the tin market con-
tinues favorable there are another 120 acres
which will “pay handsomely,” with the re-
majpder “paying exes, or a little over.” The
co. took over the old Bangnon Valley dredge
and commenced working, with three shifts,
early in September. When the year closed
260,000yd5. had been handled for an average
of almost a lb. Exes, absorbed 4.61 d. and a
net mine profit of 13.31 d. per yd. was earned.
After providing for depreciation, etc., a net
profit of about £13.000 showed up, from
which a first div. (10 p.c.) was paid on
the capital of approximately £88,230. There
is at least seven years’ profitable work ahead
of the dredge in the 150 acres of good
ground. Finance is easy, for all liabilities
are comfortably covered by cash in hand.
“Jemerah”: Hall’s Creek, 240 miles from
Wyndham, was once the scene of a big
gold rush. It still has three stores —two in
Hall’s Creek, and one. at Brockman. The
amount of loading that arrives from Wynd-
ham is surprising considering the few white
people in that locality. The bulk of the
rations are handed out to Binghi and his
missus in exchange for gold. I think the
Brockman store gets most. If the quantity
of gold the blacks bring in was made public
it might liven up prospecting a bit. Binghi
is too shrewd to let on where he does his.
A rich deposit of scheelite has been exposed
at King Island on private land adjacent to
the big mine, and a local syndicate has the
show in hand.
* * * *
Old Mt. Farrell Blocks (Tas.) is to have
another trial. All the unissued shares of
the co. are being offered to the public, call-
able to 2s. each. The show adjoins North
Mt. Farrell, and there are hopes that that
mine’s lodes will persist through the Blocks
area. Two thousand pounds are being raised
to prove whether they do.
* * * *
“Ben Trovato”: The Commonwealth
Treasury has further reduced the amount
of gold coin travellers may take away with
them to £lO per adult if going to S’Africa,
Japan, India and the Far North, and to £2O
if bound for any other country. Hindus,
Japs and Chinese, who have been smuggling
gold out of Australia, will be allowed to take
only £6 each w T ith them. This seems to be
straining at a very tiny gnat seeing that
the Federal Government is permitting the
Gold Producers’ Association and the banks
to export practically the whole of Australia’s
gold yield abroad to catch the prevailing gold
premium. It is high time, in the interests
of this country’s financial safety, that an
embargo was placed on the export of gold by
anybody except the Federal Treasury.


Pingo Greek prepares a>r\ Arch
/or th<z Prince*.
But the Prince regrets etc, to announce
ThaJ owing to etc, etc, th<z. trip is off.
WHAT HE MISSED.


3
1E
K
-IH-C
y^-eparec/-
ABBOTS
LAGER
JJour Sues'/s
%Jj// SAppreciate
brewed rnon
PURE HALTS) HOPS' ONLy
ǽ
a
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS —
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A fortunate man is Newton Moore, once
a surveyor at Bunbury (W.A.), now an
English M.P. and director of half a dozen
prosperous companies. When Bason quitted
the W.A. Premiership Moore (then a politi-
cal unknown) slipped into the billet because
neither of Itason’s powerful lieutenants
would let the other have it, and when the
Moore Ministry had exhausted its vogue,
Moore slipped into
the Agency-
General. Then
came the war and
with it a fat non-
combatant post for
Moore, who was by
way of being an
amateur soldier,
and the man aetu-
ally became a
major-general with-
out having be e n
under fire. Fin-
ally he glided into
a safe Conserva-
tive seat on the
flowing tide of
Australian popu-
larity. being re-
garded in Tommy-
land as “a leader
of those gallant
Anzacs who did so
much to win the
war.” Some people
have all the luck.
J. M. NIALL, of
Goldsbrough, Mort
and Co., who is to
help in showing the
Prince what the
Australian bush is
like; though most
of that programme
has now been cut
out.
Willie Watt has suffered from _at least
one organic ailment for a long time, and
now, in his 50th year, he has reached an age
when many men get oppressed by the idea
that their game hasn’t been worth the
candle. He didn’t want his mission to Eng-
land —he wanted a rest. Last year, previ-
ous to the return of Hughes from England,
Watt remarked to a Bulletin person:
“They think I’m after Billy’s billet. I
wouldn’t take it for all the tea in China!”
Edward Albert Christian George Andrew
Patrick David (26) will celebrate his birth-
day in Sydney. It will also be the tenth
anniversary of his creation as Prince of
Wales. He is understood to have expressed
a heartfelt desire to cut the birthday cake
a thousand miles from a mayor.
Archibald Weigall, the new Governor of
S. Aus., is keen on land questions, and took
the monotonous journey from Perth to
Adelaide by rail for the sake of getting an
early look at up-country. So Port Augusta
had first look at him, and he had to receive
welcomes and addresses all down the line.
His address at the official swearing-in at
the City Town Hall suggested that the poor
man thinks his mission is really to govern;
but, for all that, it made a good impression.
He insisted on the importance -of produc-
tion, and told how in the House of Com-
mons he had succeeded in getting together a
large and earnest Agricultural party. He
means, he says, to see as little of cities
and as much of the land as possible. Like
Beauchamp long ago, he worked up to a
Kipling quotation to finish ; but it was not
about any Birthstain —merely reminded Aus-
tralians that they are “neither children nor
gods, but men in a world of men.”
The see-saw. When the newly-knighted
Elliot Johnson, now Speaker of the Reps.,
first stood for
Parliament, i t
was a s Labor
candidate for
M a r r i c k-
ville (N.S.W.).
The man who
beat him was
F. E. McLeau,
at that time a
Liberal. Later,
when Johnson
won Lang as a
Liberal, he de-
feated the same
F. E. McLean,
but by that
time lie was
standing for
Labor.
CHIEF
JUSTICE
KNOX,
of the High
Court of Aus-
tralia, who hits
been made a
Privy Coun-
cillor.
Lieut.-Gov. Irvine will put on his cocked
hat to open the Vic. State session on June
30, and there is curiosity as to how he will
shape. When he sees the Speech he is re-
quired by constitutional practice to read, his
first impulse will certainly be to recast the
English, knock out split infinitives, and con-
dense it. A great sub-editor was wasted
when Irvine took to the law and became a
mere Chief Justice.
Born four years before the Reform Bill
of 1832 was passed in England, John Spark
Woolcott passed out at Brighton (Vic.)
last week, disappointed only that he was
not to live to score a century. He assisted
to prepare the briefs for the defence of the
Eureka “rioters,” for he was first a lawyer’s
clerk and then a solicitor. He owned the
old Express, which was run by his brother,
and sold it to a group of citizens who
changed its name to the Age. How David
Syme subsequently became proprietor is a
matter of history. In his diary Woolcott
has much to say concerning James Macpher-
son Grant, the lawyer-politician, in whose
office he served his articles. Grant was in
the Vic. Assembly from 1856 till about 1883,
and was in seven Ministries under Heales.
McCulloch, Charles Duffy, Berry and
O’Loghlen. Only a year ago the veteran,
then well over 90, had occasion to write to
The Bulletin, and the hand was still
steady and the brain clear as a youth’s. He
was at that time still attending to a few
professional jobs.
Dead in Adelaide, at 78, John Playford,
brother of the much better known Thomas.
He was a useful citizen, but stuck to the
market-garden, which Thomas was always
ready to leave to become State Premier.
Father Gzell, superintendent of Bathurst
Island (N.T.) abo. station, has earned a
holiday. After devoting 22 years to Binghi
he returns to Alsace, of which he is a native.
During his term as superintendent of the
mission he has made it the most successful
of its kind in Australia. Cattle, pigs and
sheep are raised, and a sawmill supplies
Darwin with cypress pine. Fruit and vege-
tables are grown, and the native children
are taught needlework. Much of the success
of the mission is owing to the fact that
Gzell does not compel the attendance at
church services of abos. who do not under-
stand white-fellow religion or who prefer to
stick to their old-time heathenism. Hencke,
a South Australian-born priest of Belgian
origin, will succeed Gzell as superintendent.
The Princekin has a sense of humor, and
is conscious of his own small shortcomings.
When beset by a pitifully nervous dignitary
deputed to say a few words of welcome, he
betrayed a most sympathetic appreciation
of the other’s agony. As the poor man stut-
tered and stumbled and stammered, Edward
shifted his feet and felt his tie and groaned
in the ear of an adjacent friend: “Poor fel-
low —he’s another of us!”
When Hughes lured the Prince to Sassa-
fras, a bright idea struck the diminutive
politician. He would give the visitor some-
thing he had never had before —billy tea
in the bush. So it was arranged with two
local hinds to light a fire in the timber and
set the billy to boil. But when the Prince
was about due. consternation fell upon the
party, for it was reported that strange per-
sons were prowling suspiciously in the
vicinity. Several resolute men were com-
missioned to stalk the suspected Bolsheviks.
They were easily found, and one of them
was observed to go deliberately and inter-
fere with the quart-pot that was to contain
the royal tea. The horrified amateur detec-
tives fell upon him—and discovered that the
regicide was one of the wholly harmless
young bushmen who had been engaged as
billy-tea specialists.
Looking as young as he did 20 years
ago, W. A. Trenwith, the former Labor tri-
bune, dropped into the Vic. public offices
the other day to inquire about a mechanics 1
institute at Oakleigh. the outer suburb in
which he is now lending a lotus-eating life.
One of the best friends technical educa-
tion in Vic. ever had was W. S. Busby,
a Richmond brassfounder, who passed out
a few days ago. As president and member
of the Workingmen’s College, founded by
Francis Ormond, Busby helped materially
to make it the big, useful concern it is.
One of the new knights is J. D. Connolly,
W.A. Agent-Oenernl, and he captured a big
bird in Admiral Beatty for the Westralian
dinner. Born a Queenslander, Connolly went
West in the roaring days and made money as
a goldfields contractor, multiplying it by
shrewd investments in Perth real estate.
He was State Secretary in two Ministries,
and owes the A.-G.-ship to the friendship of
the late Frank Wilson, who could have had
it himself. A prominent R.C., he wears
a Papal decoration, and he has been a useful,
if undistinguished, politician with one
obsession: immigration.
“Britt”: .Tack Walters, of Westralia (B.
3/6/’2O), hasn’t a look-in with Bill Groves,
of Ballarat, for the distinction of having
been Australia’s most youthful non-com. At
15 he held a commission in the Senior Cadets.
Enlisted in July, ’l5, at 1.0, lie was almost
immediately made temporary sergeant. He
joined the 14th Battalion in Egypt, topped
an exam, for n.c.o.’s, and was confirmed
corporal. Later, on the Somme, he received
his third stripe for good work at 17. After
passing through an O.T. school, at 18 he
was back with his unit awaiting a commis-
sion, but was trapped by the Hun at Bulle-
court in April, ’l7, and spent 21 months in
Germany. Returned to Aussie in June, 1911),
he was in good time to celebrate his 21st
birthday. He is now at Melbourne Uni.
Speaker Bertram, of Bananaland, is well
equipped for the' job of keeping order. He
twice won the amateur middleweight cham-
pionship of his State.
Maoriland’s loftiest Digger, Anthony Pat-
terson, sent his 6ft. Sin. underground with a
bullet the other lay. A little bit of a girl
managed to do what the Hun couldn’t.
A cheerfully irresponsible person at Tar-
coola (S.A.) introduced the new Governor
to South Aus. by asking him, as he stood
on the platform of the Overland, whether he
knew if a bloke called Weigall was aboard
the train. His Excellency Weigall pro-
fesses to have enjoyed it.
Hermann Berlitz, pastor of the Melbourne
Lutherans, who used to be much in evi-
dence in combined Protestant deputations to
State Ministers before the war, crossed over
last week, aged 86. He was shrewd enough
to lie low while the nations were hemming
in the Huns. Outside his church work he
took a big and useful interest in the incur-
ables at Austin Hospital, Heidelberg.
John Morris, just dead at Glenelg (S.A.),
was remarkable for two things. There
seems little doubt that he was over the
century, as May 8, 1819, was claimed as his
birth-date long before he became old enough
to want to boast about it. Secondly, in his
young days, after station experience on
the Darling, he moved down to S. Aus. per
canoe. He made it himself out of a tree, and
voyaged safely with wife and child from
Menindie (N.S.W.) to Mannum (S.A.).
There appeared during the Prince celebra-
tions in Vic. two war ribbons of which not
more than half a dozen are to be seen in
Australia —a plain green and a black-and-
yellow—one for enlistment in the Imperial
forces after the Armistice; the other the
Archangel decoration. Two Diggers known to
put these up are S. Australians —Arthur
Sullivan, who won the V.C. in Russia;
and Keith Attiwell, just returned to his old
job as junior on the staff of the Geelong
Times.
Sergeant Alan Lush, formerly A.1.F., has
been informed that the Prince w’ants to see
him in Sydney. Lush served in the Boer
War and the late disturbance, and whilst
he was convalescing in England from wounds
PARLIAMENTARY PRACTICE (WITH
A DIFFERENCE).
PRISON VISITOR: “And why are you here !”
PRISONER: “I raised my salary £ 400 without
consulting my employers. The Judge
said it wasn't constitutional and gave me
three years for embezzlement."
gathered at Gallipoli the Duke of Teck
remembered meeting him after the African
affair. Lush asked for a photograph as a
memento and got one—a family group: the
Tecks, Queen Mary and the present Prince
as a youngster. Now he suspects that the
Prince wants to recover that photograph,
which Lush is told is the only one of its
kind left.
J. T. Ford, who had a funeral at South
Head (Sydney) the other day, was in his
90th year. Born in London, he went to
the West Indies as a lad and had some
banking experience there before he reached
Melbourne in 1862. lie tried the diggings
at Bendigo, then he crossed to Sydney, got
a job with the City Bank (on the N.E.
corner of King and George streets), and
became manager. Some years later he
went to England with his wife, the eldest
daughter of Dean Cowper, and while there
joined the Bank of N. S. Wales and re-
mained on its inspecting staff for 33 years.
Ashley Teece, one of the three returned
soldiers whom the Federal Cabinet has put
on the Repat. Commission, is a quite un-
usual sort of Congregational parson. A son
of the old A.M.P. actuary, and married to
a daughter of Judge Giblin of Tasmania,
he gave up prospects better than most
youngsters have to study for the pulpit.
For the past 15 years he has been at Clay-
ton Church, Adelaide—except for a period
at the war in Egypt and Palestine, from
which he brought back an M.C. and a bunch
of anecdotes that he worked into un-
clerical lectures. Quick of speech and boy-
ish in manner, he looks as if he might be
better suited dealing with Diggers than with
deacons.
With the death of Robert Gillies Thom-
son Maoriland loses a capable journalist
blessed with a facile pen and the news sense.
He served for many years on the Otago
Daily, Times, and spilt ink on several other
leading M.L. papers. But for a long time
past he had been on Hansard.
Dead at 83, Mrs. Sarah Whitelock, born
at Bathurst; her parents were Edward Hal-
len and Sophia West Lawson, his wife, the
latter a daughter of William Lawson, the
Blue Mountain explorer. Edward Hallen
w T as one of two brothers who were notable
as architects and surveyors: Edward was
responsible for the design of Sydney College,
now Sydney Grammar School.
“C. de M.” : The incident of G.-G. Fergu-
son and the wild butterman whose boxes
he fell over (B. 8/4/’2O) reminds me of
another bump that occurred in Fiji a few
years ago. A short distance out of Suva
a portly lady was endeavoring to coax a
horse to enter the shafts of a dogcart. Pre-
sently, a little distance off, appeared an
elderly gentleman to whom she called for
assistance: ‘'Hi, my man, come and help
me with my horse!” “My man” appeared
to be deaf, so she squealed again but failed
to attract him. Presently a young stranger
went to her assistance and succeeded in
getting the horse into the shafts. Then he
broke it to her that she had been trying to
engage Governor im Thurn as groom. Still
she did pretty well, as the one who took
the job was his A.D.C.
A MATE O’ MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E never ’ad no luck, that mate o’ mine.
’E always seemed t’ catch th’ rotten jobs.
'E never got trench-feet when in th’ line;
And if A.W.L., then back e’ lobs
Jest as we’re startin’ fer a flamin’ stunt.
But, ’struth! ’is steel could make the square- ’eads
grunt!
’E never ’ad no luck. Th’ two-up kings
An’ Crown and Anchor lords took all ’is dough ;
Fer right and left ’is ’ard-earned fronks ’e flings
Among th’ crooked mob what runs th’ show ;
And when from grindin’ drill ’e sneaks an hour,
The S.M. plunks ’im in ’is fairy bower.
The Aussie mail come in. I missed me mate,
,But drinkin’ ’eavy in th’ wet canteen
I found ’im....’Ow ’e railed at Fate!
All argument was useless soon I seen —
’ls wife ’ad flit with some cold-footed swine
While ’e was strafin’ Germans in th’ line.
’E never ’ad no luck when in th’ fray.
Y’r ’umble, Smithy, Marmaduke an’ Lee
All got a Blighty in th’ usual way;
And English girls is very fair to see.
Dead beat, fed up, an’ caked with sweat and grime,
>E kept on killin’ ’Uns in mud and slime.
’E goes on leave t’ Blighty. In th’ Strand
’E meets a bonzer tabby, ’azel-eyed.
Before a blinkin’ padre, ’and in ’and,
She promises to be ’is lovin’ bride. ...
At dewy morn ’e wakes, and throws a fit—
’ls bride ’ad flown, with all ’is cash an’ kit!
’E never ’ad no luck. An’ now ’e’s gorn—
Took th’ full issue, from a dud five-nine
That left th’ rest without a tunic torn.
Poor cow! ’E was a dinkum pal o’ mine.
I wonder ’as ’e dodged the angel choir
An’ copped a nice warm possie be th’ fire.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


mm
mm
mm
■z
m
V/}
m
mi
*&/*
*.r
X
m
m
U
- >vf'
m
•/Sj
ill
V,
rtCl/tYt
Ss
yA
Nm
/,v
HHS
A
mm.
*y
m
m
mmm
■KSV.
S'MfekfeiiXi
SM
m
m
mm®
S'S'J
m
m
m
mm
*mm
nm
XAi:
w.
iv}±w
mm
m
urn
as
3
n'
wit
m
mm
m
XV'
X:>
Mt
m
mm
??Si
VA
m
■m
7/
yjji
m
%*y.
K
m
msm
:
548
R?
S/M
M-i'iS
m
m
Si
m
SfeC
R3B
MMM
HHHMfeI
m
7.
y/t
•*■ 0 0 *
'Si
7
WsA
m
w-l
m
l i - n
m
m
m
m
VM
mm
mmm
m!7
w£*ks/
mmm
r
«
mm.
sm
srattf
VJv'i
m
v'-M-
-3m,
W-V
SfeMf
MB
rjy
;■
rN*
rtf
if
.'•-r
iSm
?4'»
M\"V
m
W
&
m£Sx
i-mFX
BW?
in
FIGURE to yourself all the points or features that you would approve of in
your new suit. Then examine an Austral Sac Suit, to Measure. There
they are —those features —every one of them.
When you order your first “Austral” Sac Suit, to Measure, you join a band of
customers who are always gratified by the skill and care expended, and by the
sympathetic consultation of their wishes in every instance.
“Austral” Sac Suits
TO MEASURE.
Of Australian Tweeds and Worsteds
95/-, 105/-, 115/-, £6/6/-, £6|ls/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-, to £lO/15/-
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY, SUBURBS AND COUNTRY.
486-490
GEORGE STREET,
aii soyg dnimod
3 to 17
ROYAL ARCADE,
Everything for Men's and Boys' Wear,
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.


The Popular Puggaree
DISTINCTIVE FINISH TO A
WELL-MADE HAT
Young men seeking something new in hat styles
have welcomed the introduction of the American
pleated silk Puggaree, worn instead of band and
bow. Peapes’ quote a smooth-finished fur felt
hat of American make with Puggaree as illus-
trated. It is a hat of superior quality in the
typical American flat-set style. The brim is
2J inches wide, with turned edge.
Colors : Mid-grey, Bark Green.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
42/-
Please state size and color required.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
/
leltomari
\ high-class
[SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
BP
E. BROWN <§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES " ALL » OVER • THE • WORLD
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3J4 guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
SOCIETY
“Dale”: When the Prince visited the
Caulfield Military Hospital during his Mel-
bourne stay, elaborate arrangements were
made to entertain him at afternoon tea, and
a wonderful collection of officers had re-
assembled their uniforms and donned them.
The Prince was informed that as his time
was so short the wards had balloted for
the honor of a visit, and he was to inspect
two out of eight. Edward smiled grimly,
as he can, brushed off all the hangers-on
except the Defence Minister and the C. 0.,
and visited the eight wards. On his return
he thanked the afternoon-tea brigade for its
kindness, but explained that he could not
“I TOUGHED HIM"
“The Royal visitor has been lucky that he is not
now wearing a big black eye, for in their enthusiasm
the people have thrown apples at his head. Despite
all appeals to cut out the ‘I-touched-him’ business,
there has been a lot of it in Melbourne. The Prince
has been ‘touched’ considerably.”
FIRST ENTHUSIAST (joyously) : “I touched
Mm, I touched him!”
SECOND D ITTO: "Wot, with yer hand ?”
FIRST D ITTO: “No, with a little piece of
brick."
wait to partake of it because he was already
behind schedule. Sassiety was shocked
again. But there is one more cheer coming
from the Diggers.
“Spare Corp”: That ’ M
borrow-money-from !” comment (B. o/o/ -\j)
recalls the hard-case who, when the i rmce s
curiosity led him to a two-up ring behind
our lines in Belgium, actually did nip
H.R.H. for ten francs. It was easy money
to the hard-case Digger; and he sold his
note for 25 francs. Afterwards he got into
trouble. The idea struck him that princely
10-franc notes were a good commercial pro-
position, and laying in a stock of paper he
commenced to trade, telling the yarn oi
the borrowing and then producing the
identical note.” The supply of mugs was
plentiful until, in a forgetful moment, the
trader tried to encore himself at the expense
of a hefty Digger to whom he had
identical note” a few days before. I hat
was his August 8. # #
“Belltopper”: No longer is “scab” a term
of opprobrium. A Northern unionist teacher
has converted it into a compliment. The
executive of Queensland Teachers’ Union
decided to' discountenance the organisation of
displays of school children as part of the
scheme to dazzle the Prince. The true-blue
seetton of the union thereupon ex-
pressed itself shocked at this display
of disloyalty, and resolved to call out
the children on its own account to
greet the visitor. Whereupon the rods of the
Union called the true-blues “scabs.” The lat-
ter didn’t reel under the shock ; they merely
retorted that “a scab is a natural protec-
tion formed to prevent poison entering the
flesh,” and proceeded with the programme.
* * * *
“S’blood”: Miss Sandes, the Irishwoman
who joined the Serbian Army and is now in
Australia on a lecture tour, lias apparently
been smitten with the national craze for
wearing uniform in and out of season. I
was in London Caf6 Royal one afternoon
in 1917 when an astonishing figure entered.
Ilis costume bore all the colors of a blood-
shot eye; he was wearing a cartridge belt
which appeared to be charged ; and various
lethal weapons dangled from his licit. “What
is he?” I asked my companion. “A Servian,”
lie replied, and went on to tell me of mem-
bers of the race whom lie had met both
before and during the war in Paris, Alexan-
dria, Monte Video and several other places.
They had all worn elaborate uniforms at
all hours of the day and night, and all were
officers; so that he was of the unshakable
conviction that the national pig-industry is
pursued in full regimentals.
* # * #
“Roundsman”: One Nor’-western district,
despairing of getting the Prince to itself for
10 minutes, but determined not to be wholly
out of the display of loyalty, deputed Hooker
to go to Melbourne and present H.R.H. with
a carved piece of fiddleback, the work of a
gifted aborigine, as some small expression of
the district’s devotion to the Throne and
Person. Hooker is
a sliire councillor,
but a plain, blunt
man, with little
knowledge of the
ways of royalty. It
is assumed that he
got on to warm
drinks almost im-
mediately on his
arrival in Mel-
bourne; at any
rate, for days pre-
ceding the arrival
he haunted officials
in a condition of
confused feet, carry-
ing his gift, and in-
quiring the way to
the Prince. The
day of Edward’s ar-
rival found Hooker
more pickled than
before, waiting on
the edge of a crowd,
looking for a per-
so n who might
satisfy his expecta-
tions of what a
prince ought to be.
Suddenly he surged
through the gather-
ing up to a digni-
tary in robes and
fur, laid the gift
at his feet, reeled
off a loyal oration,
and backed out
again, freed at last of his terrible obliga-
tion. He had presented Tinbidgery’s loyal
gift to a suburban mayor.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Lately the overseas steamer
Havre ran out of coal when near Lord
Howe Island, and for many days drifted
a helpless derelict upon the ocean. She
had wireless and so had the tugs sent to her
rescue; and you’d think that that would
bring them together straight away. But it
isn’t so easy as it looks. Nine years ago a
Yankee steamer bound from San Francisco
to Honolulu lost her propeller. With the
aid of wireless it was thought to be an easy
matter —all she had to do was to say where
she was, and the searchers would go to
her. After about a fortnight’s hide-and-
seek, she was stumbled on by a warship.
It was then found that her skipper was 13
miles out in his noon position of an hour
previously'. Observations from the deck of
a steeplechasing tug are likely to be very'
erratic. For all their aids to correct navi-
gation, even large steamers swing very con-
siderably on their courses. For instance,
sister vessels passing on the long run be-
tween San Francisco and Tahiti rarely
sight each other. If, however, in addition
to ordinary wireless, the tug Champion had
been fitted with direction-finding apparatus
(cost, about £10), the locating of the Havre
THE ROYAL EYE.
“You must have a great admirer in the
Prince, having so many dances with
him. What do you like best about
him?"
“His good taste, I think."
would have been a comparatively easy mat-
ter. The leading feature of directional appa-
ratus is a rotating loop of wire ; signals are
strongest when the loop and some small
items of receiving gear face the sending sta-
tion —and that is the basis of the whole
thing. When John Alcock flew the Atlantic
he depended more on his radio direction-
finder than on plain navigation. He made
the giant thunder-house at Clifden, on the
Irish coast, his objective, arranging for sig-
nals at certain intervals. laterally flying
up the track of the sigs., he landed in the
station paddock. Using two coast stations
a ship fitted with directional apparatus can
locate herself even in the densest fog.
* * * *
The dear old Argus has made it clear
that, while it may be permissible to say
“pyjamas” when referring to the nightwear
of ordinary men, “sleeping suit” is the cor-
rect term when alluding to the costume in
which princes dream. Prunes and prisms!
* * * *
To prove that he wasn’t a mere figure-
head, Sir Reginald Talbot, when Gov. of
Vic,, once produced at a Royal Show lun-
cheon a proclamation in which he had de-
clared boxthorn to be a thistle. In much
the same way the Vic. Fair Profits Commis-
sion. to convince the people that it is a
devil of a fellow for really doing things,
ordered a grocer the other day to refund
7id. to a customer who had been over-
charged for sugar.
* * - «■ *
“Mainshaft”: Herewith a photo to show
how Australia House is made known in the
Strand. The London temple of the Com-
monwealth is a noble creation, spoiled by
the little people who inhabit it. A tattered
flag of the Commonwealth hangs from a win-
dow, as the photo shows, and sandwich men
walk before the main entrance and adver-
tise the “select” hops that are “open to
all.” It doesn’t advertise also “Gentlemen
sixpence and ladies free,” but it might as
well go the whole Mile End-road hog and
do it. The display of the N. S. Wales
Government advertises the Bottleneck State
with dingy stuffed magpies and curlews.
Other States and the Commonwealth, itself
advertise our great natural resources by
exhibits of honey, seeds, wool in the grease
and a few cans of preserved fruit. There
is a dirty window through which is dimly
seen a sample of timber (unidentifiable from
the street), and a jnineral exhibit of wol-
fram, molybdenite, tin, gold and copper
specimens mounted in plaster of Paris.
Place of origin and quantity of production
not stated. The typical London day, cold,
foggy, despairing, cheerless, goes with you
into Australia House —the house of Aus-
tralia that should represent a little the coun-
try' it was named for. But it is only a dull
building in a dull city, and for a thing that
cost £2.000,000 it is a ghastly failure as
it stands.
“Albatross”: The slipshod practice of
allowing two seaboard places in
one country to wear the same
name can be extremely embar-
rassing to foreign shipmasters,
who, through the absence of
sectional charts, have been com-
pelled to work on a general
chart of the country they were
bound for. Two masters arriv-
ing in Australia a while ago
were probably the most flabber-
gasted shellbacks on record. In
the one case the skipper navi-
gated his A'essel to Rocking-
ham (Q.), now Innisfail, and
then found out that his
hooker was due at Rockingham
(Coekburn Sound), near Fre-
mantle (W.A.). In the other
case the ship was proceeding in
ballast to llamelin, an obscure
and unsafe Karri Davies harbor
near Cape Leeuwin, to load
timber. But seeing llamelin
Pool (Shark Bay) marked con-
spicuously on the chart, he
chanced it, and went in. Ilis
luck was out. He piled his
vessel up on the spit that runs
a long way north from Cape
Peron, the northern extremity
of Peron Peninsula. llamelin
Pool is a large sheet of water
lying between the eastern coast-
line of the peninsula and the
mainland. It is full of shoals,
and the unlucky stranger pro-
bably only crashed a little
sooner than he would have
done had he cleared the spit.
“Hamfat”: Somebody has been digging
for the origin of “Jazz” and has decided
that it is a corruption of “Jasper,” the
colloquial monnilter of the American negro.
Jasper was shortened to Jas., and the fool-
ing round that Jasper preferred to do when
lie was supposed to be at work became Jazz-
ing.
■4 * * *
“Karim Khan”: “Broke’s” par on close
calls and wonderful surgery (B. 20/5/’2O)
reminds me. At the first battle of the Somme
a Maorilander received two shrapnel wounds
in the head. While the bearers were taking
him away a piece of shell entered his side
and stopped a fraction of an inch from the
heart. From there the doctors removed it
after a difficult operation. Then they X-
rayed his head and took two photographs.
Prints of these showed one piece of shrapnel
embedded in the brain between the eye and
the back of the skull, and the other, also
in the brain, two inches lower down. The
medical men held out little hope of saving
him and no hope of preserving his sanity.
Yet that Digger is, physically and mentally',
as alive to-day as he was before the war.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE HIBERNIAN WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Sinn Fein tribunal in Countj' Clare sentenced
three men to a fortnight’s detention on Mutton
Island. Constabulary learned of the incident and
sent a boat to rescue the marooned trio, who, how-
ever, stoned the rescuers and declined to be released.”
And will I be saved by the tyrannous Saxon,
Whose arrogant heel is on Erin’s fair chest,
And motor ’mid uproar of engine and klaxon
To home, wife and children, and all I love best ?
I’ll not, though my prison be ever so humble —
No more than a bog, as a matter of fact,
Amongst whose morasses I stagger and stumble,
With nothing but frogs and the like to distract.
Ah! sweeter the water of bleak Mutton Island
Than whisky from Scotland provided by foes!
And better to cut off one’s face if the high hand-
-Ed minions of England approve of one’s nose!
So gather the stones and the boulders together
And stack them in readiness here by my side,
And pass me the word when the Sassenachs tether
Their craft near my bog in their insolent pride.
They’ll get such a greeting as rescuers never
Were given within or without Erin’s pale.
No Saxon my sentence and me shall dissever:
I’ll show I am free by remaining in gaol.
N.S.AV.
J. B. D.
THE MANUAL WORKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Paws!
In a wonderful array
Stretchipg on from day to day;
Reaching up to clutch your fist
Lest they should by chance be missed;
Like an endless harvest field,
With a vast uncounted yield,
And the reaping never done
With the setting of the sun;
Paws quite limp and paws dull brown,
Paws of country and of town,
Slimy paws which touch and slip,
Paws which give a sturdy grip,
Little paws which softly cling,
Bony paws that grip and wring—•
Lack-a-day!
You, young Prince, must earn your pay.
Paws!
Some with nails as black as night,
Others manicured and bright;
Here a wart and there a scar,
Now a dimple like a star
Peeping out to cheer your soul —
On the endless legions roll!
Never linger, do not stop,
Grab a paw and let it drop!
All your subjects have two hands.
And they flock in eager bands.
You will have a happy time
In our sunny Southern clime —
Drop that rosebud, seize these claws,
They are all, remember, paws!
Well, heigh-ho!
Youthful princes can’t go slow.
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.


XS9B9K T
X
■*■•B*l
a ■
■ ■
■ ■
■•■•a
tin
a
i
0 UtJ
$
m
i
A
*u
a
re
pi
?8
Wtvj
NsJ
\">
/
n
m
X
X
OXO.
V *
l!Sce«0*ao8*a°Bi o a < B <> ao8o8oB«BoBc8»BoaoBoBoB*»>B*B*8«8«a*B«e«8.B«B«8.a.O*8oe*a*B>«« •««•&&
E 9
OXO
8
“In every way
far superior.”
When absolute perfection is sought in Phono-
graphs, your search is fully rewarded and
your desires fully gratified when you acquire an
Aeolian
Vocalion
Then you have music faultlessly reproduced,
rich and clear in tone, bringing a wealth of
musical enjoyment hitherto believed impossible.
HE popularity and success of the Vocalion is due to the superiority
and effectiveness of its patented features, the ingenious inventions
and practical improvements that combine to make it the greatest
of all Phonographs. These exclusive advantages include :
The Reproducer
Constructed with utmost precision, the Vocalion reproduces
every sound-wave with life-like fidelity. Its diaphragm,
sensitive to even a breath and the heavy vibration of a full
military band, creates all tones with sweetness and faithful
quality.
The Graduola
This important and revolutionary tone-controlling device
immediately places all other Phonographs at a disadvantage,
for no other can offer such a privilege of playing a record
yourself with every shade of expression and tone color that
your musical feeling dictates.
The Tone Chamber
After much experimenting by acoustic scientists, this
highly-improved feature was designed, embodying a system
of tensionised wood and metal resonators, from which the tone
produced is unapproached for characteristic quality and
natural color.
The Automatic Stop
is a mechanical advantage allowing anyone to enjoy the
record from start to finish, undisturbed.
SEND IN THIS.COUPON
and you will be posted gratis an interesting Catalog, giving full particulars
and prices, and explaining the easy terms of purchasing an Aeolian Vocation.
Name
Address
The Pianola Company Pty„ Ltd.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 436 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.


U«w TO OJ* urr \
It Pays to Qualify
Otherwise—why did 4000 candidates pre-
sent themselves for Accountancy Examina-
tions last year? These men know what the
qualification will do for them. You cannot
afford to stand aside.
80-PAGE FREE BOOK.
Write or call at nearest address. Enquiry
costs nothing. Head the book and see
exactly what ‘‘qualification” means to you.
Hemingway S Robertson,
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings,
Custom Street.
“FIRST IN ISO7— FOREMOST EVER SINCE.
12
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stoat
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“General Practitioner”.: After having re-
ceived several bales of literature dealing
with the N. S. Wales Venereal Diseases Act,
1918, we received a shock the other day when
we got a brief notice informing us that the
Act had been side-tracked indefinitely. It
ran :
Notice will be sent you when the Act is to come
definitely into force, and until this is received it
will not be necessary to notify any case attended or
treated by you.
Meantime the manufacture of chronic inva-
lids to fill hospitals and homes, and mental
defectives to fill asylums, and physical wrecks
to draw invalid pensions goes on without
check. But the Government professes to
be dreadfully concerned about the public
health when it is alleged that some occupa-
tion or other is damaging to it. Work is a
thing to be viewed with suspicion and dis-
trusi:, anyway.
From a consulting room :
The evidence in the Cuscaden case, decided n
few days ago in Melbourne, shows that it is a
great mistake for surgeons to do any operative
work in their own surgeries. They should insist
on a hospital, where the patient can be put
to bed immediately. The case may go wrong
from no fault of the operator, and then, instead
of getting his fee, he is liable to be served with
a writ for negligent treatment, and be compelled
to submit for months to all kinds of legal worry,
including blackguardly remarks from barristers who
are ignorant of surgical work. Dr. Cuscaden, of
South Melbourne, operated on a boy of 17, in
November, 1918, for varicocele, and having tied
the veins with every aseptic precaution drove the
boy home in his car, and attended to him after-
wards. Things began to go wrong in a few days;
sepsis set in, which necessitated the reopening of
the wound and the lancing of several abscesses.
This caused a good deal of pain, and retarded con-
valescence. Experts at the trial said that there
was no fault with the operation, with which the
jury agreed ; but they brought in a verdict against
the surgeon for careless after-treatment, and awarded
plaintiff £2OO damages. Had the doctor been firmer
in his treatment of the boy’s father when he
first broached the subject of compensation things
FIFTY-FIFTY.
“Y’know, you're not a bad looking sort of a
girl,”
“Oh, but you'd say so even if you didn't
think so.”
“Well, we're square — you'd think so even if
I didn’t say so.”
might have ended differently, but he injudiciously
discussed the question of monetary disbursement,
and he made another mistake in not sending in a
bill, which was taken for weakness. However,
that is not the main point. Plaintiff’s counsel,
referring to the operation as a minor one, declared
it should not have gone wrong; but tying a clump
of veins can hardly be called a minor operation.
Personally, I should not care to do it in my surgery,
and I have always had scruples even about doing
such things in a private house, unless the walls have
been washed down and the premises fumigated be-
forehand.
* * * *
The honest rage or ‘Wanderer” (B.
-O/o/’-O), who demands to know if there are
any competent restaurant cooks in Australia,
excites my admiration. But I haven’t the
courage to tackle the kitchen as he does. I
gnaw my portion humbly, and only ask that
the. waitress cease from humiliating me by
giving an imitation of a duchess in reduced
circumstances. I don't know why it should
be, but every woman who has been disap-
pointed in love or swindled by the dear old
family solicitor seems to slide' into the food-
bringing business and get
square with the world of
men by taking it out of
her customers. Some of
them pour contempt on
the hungry by the silent
method. They float up
like captive queens whose
spirit is unbroken, and
the order for eighteen-
pence worth of lukewarm
stew is taken unflinch-
ingly like a coward’s
blow. It makes the food
taste worse than it is.
Icy politeness F, the only
guard for this sort of
serving-maid. On a lower
level is the peevish wait-
ress who, when bustled
too much, grows slightly
hysterical and tells her
mild victims, “You know.
I’ve no need, to do this!
My brother is simply
dying for me to go and
live with him. Did you
say roast beef?” This
variety may be whipped
with sarcasm. It is the
proud, siient. sneering
one who feeds me like
Fido that mnkes me boil
inwardly. I almost
burst to drive her away
with a firework display
of brilliant lies. I want
to tell her (with appro-
priate gestures) that I
was once British Ain-
bassador to France and ruined my diges-
tion by feeding richly with kings. It
isn’t shame that keeps me from assailing her
with these stories; it is the chill certainty
that she would only smile pityingly and
bring me something only a drunken cannibal
could eat.
* * * *
A Geelong (Vic.) Digger, wiser than
most, when he knew his gratuity bond would
soon be reaching him seized resolution with
both hands and applied to the local . Bench
for a prohibition order against himsc'|£.
Badly shell-shocked, he is one whom a very
little drink knocks over. “I’ve got a good
lump of money coming to me,” he told a
sympathetic Bench, “and I know if I don’t
keep dry I’ll be in the ‘queer place’.” So
for a year at least he will be safe from
all but his —friends.
• * * *
“Exul”: “Mirza’s” remark (B. 27/5/’2O)
that candidates for the final medical exam,
can score by firing the examiners’ pet
theories back at them is untrue as
regards Sydney Uni. exams, at least.
As _ far as possible students who are
trained at one of the two big hos-
pitals are examined at the other. I
was trained at Prince Alfred and
examined at the Sydney. I knew
nothing of the views of the Sydney
examiners. In clinical medicine (case-
taking) I was examined by two Syd-
ney men. In clinical medicine (oral)
and clinical surgery by one Sydney
and_ one Prince Alfred man in each
subject. In each case the Sydney man
did most of the questioning, while the
P.A. man, who knew me, listened to
my answers. Incidentally, U.S.A.
and some other places won’t let Aus-
tralian graduates practise medicine
without putting them through their
final exams. Since the Australian
unis, are turning out more doctors
than enough to fill local needs, surely
what is sauce for the Australian goose
is ditto for the foreign gander.
“Iiio”: Assistant Defence Minister
Ryrie’s name should be spelt Eire. As a
practical joker and leg-puller he stands
alone. The way in which he deals out a
shilling rise in a permanent n.c.o.’s pay and
at the same time does away with an allow-
ance of Is. Id. is most droll. In the De-
partment it is called a Ryrie rise. Another
of his jokes is to refuse a rise to a young
officer struggling to maintain appearances
(also a wife and children) on £5-odd a week,
reduce his travelling allowance and then
announce that all ranks have had a rise
of at least 40 p.c. One officer has had no
rise in his pay, but has had three shillings
per day knocked off his travelling allow-
ance. This man does a lot of getting about
in the course of his duties, so Ryrie’s little
leg-pull appeals to him particularly. Eyrie,
however, is modest. He sends round a cir-
cular warning . soldiers that they are not
to let any of his jokes get into the press.
“In Argentina every M.P. gets £ISOO a
year, a room to himself and a typiste, and
the typistes are all pretty,” said the ancient
Bamford, M.H.R., in defence of the salary-
grab. Fifteen hundred a year and a flapper
to type the letters! When that comes about
women will vote for women candidates —
they don’t now—on the principle that the
cat you know is safer than the kitten you
don ,t know.
THE HEARTLESS PARENT.
“Oh, you horrible man! To cut off your
lovely moustache when you know baby
would be good for hours just pulling it!”
“Biologist’’ dashes our hopes of beating
Methuselah:—•
The forecast that the experiments with body
glands may lead to the discovery of the elixir of life
is not supported by biologists. Duration of life
depends on reproduction. When plant, insect or
animal ceases to breed, it dies. If the young do not
want parental care, the parents promptly die after
the seed is ripe or the egg laid. If the young want
parental care, then after the last of the possible
young are reproduced the parents live just long
enough to carry out that duty. If reproduction—
the one important thing—is hindered, life may be
prolonged to allow of it. Out a crop of barley before
the seed is ripe, and it will try to seed again; again
cut it and it will make a third venture. Many fruit-
trees when ringbarked, and so possibly doomed to
death, set their record crop of fruit. Most insects
devote all their energies to provide for young they
will never see. With humanity, possible motherhood
ends at 50 ; add to that 15 or 20 years for the rear-
ing, and you have our natural length of life. But
both with man and his domestic animals there is a
disposition to gradually modify natural laws. A
mother may live longer than threescore and ten;
and a mare or cow after the lactation of the last
possible foal or calf. But a life is adapted by ages
of repetition to necessities, so we cannot conceive any
sudden change in its processes. Take the case of
Verdi, the composer: at the age of 88, when in
apparently perfect health, he suddenly died; and he
is only one of many instances. We infer that, in
spite of physical fitness, he had reached, and pos-
sibly a little exceeded, the limit of life in his
parental families. The discoveries of scientists, of
\vhich much has been hoped, do not appear to have
prolonged their own individual lives by a single
day; but there is no doubt that such discoveries do
tend to increase the average length of life. Appa-
rently the only known prescription for extending the
individual life is: Live temperately, avoid strain of
any kind; and, most important of all, when you are
born select a family of ancestors who lived as long
as you desire to do.
* * * •
From an old document signed “John W.
Wilson, architect,” purportihg to give a
first-hand account of the Ballarat troubles
of ’54 and the birth of the Australian flag :
On the Thursday night Kennedy, Humphrey, Lalor
and some others met in a tent at the back of
Cameron Bros.’ store, Golden Point, to consider the
plan for next day... .After some talking we came to
consider what the flag should be, and one suggested
one thing and some another. It was getting late
when I went outside, and the Southern Cross was
shining in the sky just before the tent. “Kennedy,”
I called, “I’ve got it—here’s the idea. Come out!”
“Where is it?” he asked. “There,” said I, “the
Southern Cross, five white stars on a blue field.”
This was then and there agreed to as the flag. We
then went down to a tent- and tarpaulin-maker on
the planked road, roused him out of his bed, got
what bunting we wanted, and we then and there
made the Blue Banner with its garniture of stars.
I said I knew of a fine pole in Bvles’s swamp, Balla-
rook Forest, and that I would secure it for the
flagstaff... .Later in the day when the meeting was
held that banner floated gaily in the breeze.
The Bulletin’s copy of the letter was
picked up lately in the Islands by a njau
who was rummaging for writing material?.
* * * * -
“Mundub”: Our homing transport had
come to a full stop in mid-ocean owing
to a breakdown in the engine-room. Break-
fast was on down below in the Diggers'
“saloon,” and the orderly officer was making
the usual morning rounds. At one of the
tables he had received a complaint regarding
the meat. “Never mind,” he said jocularly,
"you’ll have eggs for dinner. The captain
has ordered the boat to lay to.” The joke
took well with everyone but a Digger with
a hatchet-face and long head. “Ah.” said
he with the air of a man just waking from
a deep reverie, “that accounts for it; she’s
gone broody and they are setting the blink-
ing thing.”
* * * *
“McNorth” tells another tale of the
white man’s burden :
I was hunting birds-of-paradise—a perfectly
legitimate business in those days—and had a camp
at the back of Port Moresby. It was rough coun-
try, all jagged mountains and tremendous valleys,
with here and there the blue-black of the jungle-clad
•slopes broken by the brown thatch of villages. There
was no white-man habitation within a five-days’ walk.
For two months I had seen no white face, had heard
no word of my own language save in the pidgin of
tlie natives about me. One morning news was' cried
from the hilltops that a white man was coming, a
(•üb’ment man, a magistrate with a retinue of
Armed Native Constabulary. He would reach my
camp late in the afternoon, for in that land of
geological chaos travelling is infinitely slow, and the
sound of the voice traverses in a second or two
a distance that it takes many plodding hours to
cover on foot. It was sundown when he arrived —
a tall, big-shouldered man, with scanty clothing all
torn by jungle thorns, and many-days’ growth of
beard on his face. He was tired and so were his
boys, and he would camp with me if I did not
mind. He had been away from civilisation for
some months, he said, roaming about the mountains
making peace between some tribes that had been
persistently murdering one another, and it was good
to see a white face again. I was delighted. I had
a bottle of rum, and we two men, of white skins,
with ragged clothing and unshaven faces, sat far
into the night talking and talking. For, up there
in those wild mountains, surrounded by almost
impenetrable jungle, and a five-days’ gruelling walk
from any other white man, two schoolmates had met,
two men who had not seen each other since they last
sat on the same bench in a school in far-away
Melbourne, and had no knowledge of each other’s
whereabouts until that night. With the lgpse of
the years, names had meant nothing when we intro-
HER SAVING GRACE.
THE S OUBRETTE: “ There’s one thing nice
about the little cat, anyhow.”
THE SERPENT: “ Really, I didn't think she
had a redeeming feature.”
THE SOUBRETTE: “Oh, yes! Her husband's
quite a topping sport.”
dueed ourselves, and the discovery was only ma£j
by reason of the fact that men in the wilds love
to talk of the civilisation they know best. That
unkempt magistrate was Wilfred Beaver, later Resi-
dent in charge of the Western Division of Papua,
about which he wrote a most interesting hook, pub-
lished posthumously. He was killed in action in
France.
WHAT OF IT?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Would it matter very much
If I kissed you, little lady?
If my lips your lips should touch,
Would it matter very much?
(Ah, the bony hands that clutch,
Down the sunny paths and shady!)
Would it matter very much
If I kissed you, little lady?
If I kissed you, little lady,
Would you scold me, would you frown
(Mark grim Care, a sullen blade he)
If I kissed you, little lady ?
(What care we, howe’er upbraid he?
Here’s a world that’s upside down.)
If I kissed you, little lady,
Would you scold me, would you frown ?
N.S.W.
SELWYN RIDER.


Join the National Roads Association (N.S.W.).
■m
The Studebaker “Light Four”
Built from personally gained experiences
fieauttful in design
7^ oroughhr modem
right
The men who designed and built
the Studebaker “Light Four”
have, during many years, spent
much of their time in motor-cars—both
for business and for pleasure. They
have gained their knowledge at practi-
cal first-hand. They know.
They are not mere theorists who sit in
offices and design and specify what
they think ought to be. The Studebaker
designers know —from personal experi-
ences.
These experts have ridden thousands
of miles in cars. They learned from
physical evidence what points were
desirable for comfort. They put them
in the “Light Four.”
They learned what was needed in
engine-power; the value of responsive-
ness; the elements that mean economy
in running expense and in upkeep. You
will find the fruits of their wisdom and
experience in the “Light Four.”
There is an old proverb which
advises to “Trust one who knows.”
There is no better rule.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 1 77 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaiu,
Wanganui.
■ ■I
till


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWO%
if. EXTRA HIfiHGRABrI
RE4DYRUBP
3]
AReal
SKin
Soap
THE BEST
OF ITS
KIND.
LIGMOLLIENE
Cream Soap
Is truly Unequalled for cleansing and
removing Blemishes from the Skin.
Possesses the Curative Properties of
the Wonderful “LIGMOLLIENE” Skin
Cure. Yields a Rich, Abundant
Lather, and has a Delightful Fra-
grance. Unsurpassed for improving
the Complexion.
Price 1/- CaKe
From W. H. MALtON & SON,
Chemists, Sturt Street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
A Signal Success
ď
đ
King George 1¥
U WIHIKmf
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
“Pick”: Some years ago the late Pat
Osborne imported a herd of deer from overseas and
turned them adrift on his sheep-run by the eastern
shores of Lake George (N.S.W.). Protected upon
the station preserves of Currandooley and Willeroo
the animals multiplied apace; but boundary-fences
proving no obstacle to them —they are the champion
four-legged high-jumpers
of the world —they soon
wandered abroad, seem-
ingly taking for choice to
the barren hills west of
Tarago and the sand ridges
of the Gourock ranges.
There sportsmen and veni-
son-hunters have continu-
ously murdered them, and
since all efforts to keep
them on the home stations
have failed, they are be-
ing wiped oft' the conti-
nent again. They are
hardy and prolific, when
full-grown the size of a
Jersey cow, and they
readily fatten in country
where anything else but
bandicoots wouldn’t gain
a feed between Sundays.
Their flesh, too, makes a
dainty joint, and their
skin provides the finest
material known for leath-
ern overcoats and uphol-
stery. What about now
affording these unusually
worthy importees a chance to stock our waste regions
with somethng lastingly useful, by an extension of
the Act for the protection of game?
“Long ’Un” : Our ganger, Micky the Bayk-
stick, thought he knew all the expressions for “snatch-
ing time,” but the Yank beat him when he announced
the termination of his engagement thus: “Say, bawss,
I guess ye can mix me up a walk.”
* * * *
“ Jeleget’’: Re “Pick” and “Hellfire
.Tack’s” exploit (B. 13/5/’2O), how is this for a
bushrider? While helping Whitaker muster cattle
in the myall scrub on Tubbuth station (Vic.), Jimmy
Brindle, a half-caste, had three saddles torn to
pieces under him. They once started an outlaw.
Jimmy took up the chase, riding a horse called
’Possum, belonging to the late John Hensleigh. Get-
ting clean away from the others, he ran the bullock
to death. When the rest caught up Jimmy was
dancing a jig on the carcase, which was lying in
the bed of a ereelc.
FY7”: “Iris,” writing of a Sudanese tree
which stores water in its trunk and supplies cordage
fibre fiom its bark, recalls our own bottle-tree, a
feature of many Western Queensland districts. This
chap is a member of the kurrajong family, and,
like “Iris’s” tree, stores water in its huge, bottle-'
shaped trunk. In years of experience I cannot re-
member seeing one which had not been tapped at
some time or other by water-seekers. The leaves
and roots are capital stock feed, and even the
juicy, pithy wood is eaten by starving cattle. This
fact has caused the destruction of thousands of
these beautiful and unique trees in drought-time,
and, like their cousin the kurrajong, they are slow
growers. In the old days Queensland Binghi made
his shields from the light, spongy timber.
*** " »
“Raba’ : Legerdemain comprises practi-
cally the whole stock-
in-trade of a New
Guinea native sor-
cerer. At best his
tricks are very simple
and clumsily per-
formed, yet are sel-
dom detected by
natives. Some years
ago a bright Sydney
youth who managed a
store on the Gina
goldfields e a r n <• d
some notoriety as a
magician, as well as
a special name for
himself, amongst the
Boncndcle tribes. As
his fame spread the
natives flocked to his
store on the off-
ehunee of seeing him
perforin. On one occa-
si o n when many
strange natives were
assembled he ar-
rangeil with a miner
who was in to pluy
off a new one. After
performing various
sleight-of-haml tricks,
he proceeded to make
a few passes over the
miner, and th e n
tapped, him on the
h e u d. Immediately
his false teeth fell
out. There was a yell
and a wild rush by
the natives to get out
of the store, which
they part demolished.
No native came near that Store for months, and they
christened the performer “De-embo” (the tooth man),
a name he still bears among them.
• * * »
“Eddyson”: Ilesketh is the man who put
the candle into bed and blew himself out. He is
the joy of all Peabloom because of his absent-
minded actions. It is now about six months since
he went into Bealiba to get married. His court-
ship was largely a correspondence course, and he
had seen very little of the lady, a plump female
of Goldsbrough, weighing 15 stone, a widow witli no
other encumbrance than her adiposity. They were
married in the morning, and his spouse took the
back of the cart to balance the load, and started
for home. About five miles out Henry suddenly
wakened up his ancient horse, the trap jolted into
a rut, and out bounced Mrs. Ilesketh, coming such
a buster that she was winded for some time. When
she did regain her legs,, her good man was over
the hill. The bride started in pursuit, but, as a
result of the shaking she had received, soon gave
out, and sought shelter and sympathy in a farm-
house by the way. Hesketh drove on home, un-
harnessed his horse, and disposed of his load. Twice
he counted his parcels over. There were only six.
Twice he searched himself, but a puzzled expres-
sion remained. He went to bed, still vaguely be-
wildered, and arose 10 minutes later to count his
packages again. There were six still. It was to-
wards midnight that Bone awakened him, rattling
at the window. Hesketh put his head out, and dis-
covered a vehicle drawn up in front of the house.
“Come out,” said Bone, “and lend a man a hand.
You dropped your missus coming up.” “My missus?”
murmured Hesketh. “Why, bless my heart, yes.
I knew there should have been seven.”
FALSE WITNESS.
“And can this dear little hoy tell me what
is meant by hearing false witness ?”
“Yes, sir. When somebody ain’t done no-
thing and somebody else goes and tells
somebody else all about it.”
“Jim Carew”: My father was a privileged
spectator at one of the last big battle gatherings
of the Monaro blacks. This is from his diary,
dated 1865:
One of my boys informed me that a big fight
was coming off shortly, and he would take me to
see it. The trouble started because a buck from a
tribe near Braidwood had stolen a gin belonging to
a hostile tribe near Delegate. The preparations for
the battle occupied about three weeks. One hundred
and fifty men (the number agreed upon) from each
tribe had been picked out and trained. They were
lined up on a big flat, facing each other, roughly
50 yards apart, about four feet separating each man.
They were fine aboriginals, and not one of the 300
would have weighed less than 13 stone. When the
signal to start was given both sides let out blood-
curdling yells and immediately threw boomerangs,
spears and nulla-nullas ut each other. Hostilities
had scarcely begun when a black ran in between
the two lines, shouting out something which I
HE WAS NO PUPIL-TEA CHER’S
CLASS.
P ATIENT: “I want to see doctor.. Be this
the place ?”
D OCTOR: “This is where I practise."
PATIENT: “Don't want no person for to
practise on me—I want a doctor for to
cure me."
could not understand, and immediately all throwing
ceased. The interrupter brought the news that the
gin had been returned to her rightful lord and
that there was no longer any need to fight over her.
It seemed to please both tribes. Only two people
had been injured in the battle. One of the Delegate
warriors had received a spear through the calf of
his leg and one of the spectators, a gin, who in her
excitement had strayed too close, had a nasty gash
in the shoulder from a boomerang. As soon as the
fighting was over the tribes made friends. The
stolen gin was brought into the centre, and both
tribes danced round her. Then her husband walked
up to her and knocked her down with his nulla
both tribes applauding this action. The gathering
then moved a little distance away, and after a
feast which lasted well into the night dispersed. In
spite of my watchfulness, that feast cost me two
steers.
* * *
‘ Mattie” : I have watched many nesting
tomtits, with father inhabiting the top storey, while
mother worked and slept in the lower flat. When
the small birds grew larger ma stayed up top with
pa. Ihere are nests in the same trees every year.
If handled before feathered the wee chicks are
promptly thrown out. Sometimes a new nest is
then made beside the old one and a new family
started. The old people do not seem to mind the
handling if the chicks are fledged. Redheads con-
struct nests similar, though larger, and I have
always found their villas ornamented with a sort of
yellow daisy twined amongst the grasses about the
entrance.
“Senex”: Recent Abo. pars, about the
hardihood of young calves bring me out of the
bails. There is a big “grown-up” paddock near
me that was used as a dry-stock reserve. A cow
calved there, and the owner couldn’t find the gosling
anywhere. He gave it up, telling me jokingly I
could have it if I found it. Pour weeks later I
heard a plaintive bleat, and stalking it came on a
hefty young bully; and didn’t it lead me a dance
before 1 got it! It cleared logs like a racer. I
poddied it, and got 10 quid for it two years later.
That bloke had hardly known the taste of cow-juice
before he got it from his galvanised-iron foster-
mother. As to calves drinking water, I saw one
only three hours old take a good, hearty sup while
he and his ma were being driven home across the
creek.
(Continued on page 22.)
SONG OF THE FRESH WATER SAILOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 here’s some as goes a-sailiug where the seas is wide
an’ deep,
Fluggin on for weeks an' weeks without a sight
o’ land,
Knowin’ naught but wave an’ sky, an' rounds of
work an’ sleep:
If they find the life a pleasure—well, it’s hard to
understand!
I like the sound o’ waters as we chug along all day.
An »to hear the throb of engines as the noisy
paddle grips;
Hut I’d miss the good old gum-trees an’ the town-
ships by the way
If 1 di if ted on the ocean with the coves who man
the ships.
■ s ’° let us sing a song about the fresh-water sailor,
His craft the noisy little tub the, river-kiddie
knout;
He can do a river run,
-In when the trip is done
He can draw his time, an’ roll his swag, an say
so-lvng an’ go!
We board her at Echuca, an’ she drives against the
stream,
Makin up the Murray when the river’s runnin’
full;
She hasn t got much length to her, she ain’t too
broad a-beam,
1’ or there s narrow ways to take ’er where we go
to load the wool.
We’ve filled her up with flour an’ spuds, an’ cases
by the score,
An’ the old black barge behind her holds a hefty
load as well;
for there’s rumors of a shortage out in many a
township store,
Though the teamsters all got busy when the river
waters fell.
W’e leave the wharf behind us, an’ the whistle says
good-bye ;
Her nose is turned for inland, with the skipper at
the wheel;
We wind around the bends an’ turns, an’ so the
miles go by,
An’ the gum-trees wave a welcome that a feller
seems to feel.
We pass Gunbower Island with the paddles thrashin’
strong ;
For the current meets us fairly, but the skipper
knows the “lay” ;
GOING TO FATHER FOR
CONSOLATION.
I say, father, everybody says I'm like you,
father; but that doesn't matter, does it,
as long as I’m healthy?"
An he hugs the bank a little, an* he feels his way
along,
With the old barge sneakin’ after in its unob-
trusive way.
But we must have steam to drive her when the
inland people wait—
M e vc station stuff for Murray .Downs an’ loading
for Swan Hill- —
An. this boat “runs on schedule,” an’ the skipper
an’ the mate
Take a pride in keeping to it. so we labor with
a will.
We make a line an’ throw the wood, from man to
man it goes,
An’ the white box logs are flying to the steamer
from the shore,
Till the space is all filled for’ard with the short
lengths stacked in rows;
Then the skipper gives the signal, an’ we push
her off once more.
Now we leave the Murray River, an’ with care we
thread our way
Up the “grand old Murrumbidgee” that the bush-
men talk about.
An’ we throw the miles behind us till we dump our
load at Hay,
An’ fill her up with golden fleece from stations
further out.
We know the winding waterways, where little
steamere go—
The Wakool an’ the Edward, up as far as Moula-
mein ;
We take the stores to stations where the tame
merinoes grow,
An’ moon-eyed cattle gaze at us where river bends
are green.
It’s a life of toil and bustle, for the water runs away,
An’ the rivers sink to zero, an’ the snags begin
to show.
If you’re caught amongst the stations—well, it’s
there you’ll have to stay;
So you must get in the Murray when the streams
are running low.
For there’s work with block and tackle if you cut
a trip too fine,
An' you graft at “swingin’ Douglas” an’ you chop
the limbs away.
An’ you curse the absent snaggin’-boat while makin’
fast a line,
Till at last you’re in the Murray—an’ you wipe
the sweat away.
Hut when you’re makin’ down-stream with a good
long day behind.
An’ the paddle-wheels are quiet an’ the night o’
rest has come,
You can smoke your pipe in comfort, an’ you’re
sorter calm an’ kind;
Fer it’s restful on the river when you’re anchored
to a gum.
An’ there’s this about the steamers; if you’re full of
river graft
lou can roll the same old bluey up an’ walk the
plank ashore ;
oil can strike out for the stations, with the skipper
cursin’ aft,
An’ the billy swingin’ by you, an’ Matilda up
once more.
So let un sing a song about the fresh-water sailor,
The free-an’-easy river-man the bush-bred kiddie
knows.
He will sail awhile, an’ then
The old bush calls again
An’ he draws his time, an’ rolls his swag, an’
says so-long an’ goes!
N.s.w.
RIVERINA.


QUEEN VAITI,”
A New South Seas Novel by BEATRICE GRIMSHAW.
Author of “The Coral Queen” and “White Savage Simon.”
A great story of adventure in the South Seas.
Other recent additions to the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
WHICH YOU SHOULD READ.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,” by CON DREW.
An excellent volume of humor, in which several confidence men are seen in
action. The volume is full of surprises, for just when the reader expects the
“crook” to score, very often the tables are turned All the old tricks are also
given a new interest by this popular sporting writer.
“THE MOUNT MARUNGA MYSTERY,”
by HARRISON OWEN.
One of the best murder mystery stories ever published in Australia.
“A GAME OF CHANCE,”
by ARTHUR WRIGHT.
The story of a daring attempt at impersonation, which for a time succeeds with
startling results. A novel strong in sporting interest.
Write for a New Complete Catalogue of over 1 00
first-class Australian novels by the best of the
Commonwealth’s authors.
1/3 each 1/44 posted.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, or direct from tlie Publishers,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
Smart Winter Navy Suit
LEVIATHAN TAILORED.
£7(7|
STILL MADE-TO-MEASURE
in
QUALITY
Material
Smartly tailored in guar-
anteed Indigo-dyed Serge,
or Superior ALL-WOOL
Australian Tweeds.
Write for Style-sheet,
Patterns, Home Measurement
Chart and Tape.
Important Notice to
Returned Soldiers.
Suit lengths, obtained from the
DEFENCE DEPARTMENT.—The
Leviathan Pty. Ltd. are prepared
to cut and
tailor in the
smartest Sac
Suit style,
supply all trim-
mings, linings,
buttons,
£4/I#/-
Special Cash
Price for
Returned Soldiers
I.
: ' s -
R
m
: vm
/.
i
MP
m
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
T**
UVIATI
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
PLEASE NOTE-WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
so
I
/ %
? V*
o
O
Cl © W
An actual-size reproduction of the new Zenith Alarm,
shows the neat and attractive appearance of this clock.
“ZENITH,” the Perfect Alarm
The Zenith Alarm is something entirely exclusive. Its
method of construction and its perfect time-keeping
qualities are infinitely superior to any Alarm Clock
previously offered. It may be had with Luminous or
Plain Dial, and will be sent on approval to any address,
providing a source of reference is furnished with the
request. PRICE: Luminous Dial . . £3 5 0
Plain Dial . . . . £2 10 0
®Um. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
dad
nl l m fcvarrew
IF you own a Maxwell, you will wonder how
so much comfort and long service, so much
economy in petrol and tyres, so much beauty,
can be built into this low-priced Motor Car.
The answer is simple: 300,000 Maxwell Cars have been built
upon the original simple motor design without fundamental
changes.
That is why the Maxwell owner knows he can expect his car
to go on and on after other cars have long ceased to run—why
he has come to expect very few of the troubles and expenses that
many motorists experience. And his expectations are fully realised
in the present Maxwell Car. -
MAXWELL MOTOR CO.. Inc.
OF DETROIT, MICH.
V
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —New York."
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


ART METAL CEILINGS.
Sterling facts
TRADE MARK.
concerning Metal Ceilings.
ECONOMICAL n LY mi be a c!!L Art f i ' t ( iC p POInIS Stamped Slee ' is now employed for 'very class of Building-
ARTISTICALLYK r **“““* Adaptability, Simplicity in Fixing, and light weight for Transport
ARTISTICALLY, because .t is the best possible medium for accurately reproducing the modefler’s art
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS:
manufacturers.
“ ELB i , Y BNE ' DE , PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, BAUNCESTON.
ptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W. POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
* *
Webfoot”: There seem to be quite a
prolific crop of claimants for the honor of being
Banjo’s” Man from Snowy River. If he
had been a friend of mine I would rather have
blamed someone else for the atrocity. A man who
butchers a good horse and leaves him with “blood
from hip to shoulder from the spur,” in an en-
deavor to yard a brumby of unknown quality, doesn’t
deserve much of a monument.
* * * *
“Jake B.”: “Gagi Highfli” (B. 27/5/’2O)
seeks the evidence of some bushwhacker as to why
aeroplanes flying at high altitudes have a tendency
to turn to the right in the Northern Hemisphere and
t °K- t u e . lef J t the Southern ditto. The influences
which tend to deflect an aeroplane from the line of
its lateral axis act independently of hemispheres.
Rvery aero engine develops what is known as
“torque,” which has the effect of turning the aero-
plane to the right or left, according to whether the
propeller is revolving clockwise or otherwise. It is
most pronounced in rotary engines, and is usually
compensated for by a vertical fin near the tail
placed at a slight angle to the line of flight. How-
eV-!u f, S the t( ”’ que is a triable quantity, increasing
with the revolutions of the engine, and as the com-
pensating powers of the fin do not vary, there is
only one position of the throttle at which the pilot
who wants to fly straight can take his feet off the
FORCE OF HABIT.
“I noticed whilst shaving you, sir, that your
hair has a considerable amount of dan-
druff attached. Now, this mixture is
guaranteed to remove all traces of the
trouble; two and sixpence a bottle, sir.”
rudder har. If below that point the ’plane is
inclined to run to starboard; and it would change
its mind when the engine was all out. A machine
free from these influences flying in a north-and-south
direction would probably turn slightly to the west,
for the same reason that the tradewinds are deflected
from the meridian, and thus conform to “Gagi’s”
geneial rule j but I fail to see why a truly rigged
’plane flying along an east-west line should turn
from its course at all.
“Sandfly”: Here’s a tenner to back the
Gulf of Carpentaria abo. against all-comers for swim-
ming or cleverness in water. From Normanton to
Cape York, along the creeks and rivers, he is to
be found. Whilst mustering on Macaroni Plains
station recently, a blackboy and I happened to be
cut off from headquarters by a river rising a banker.
It was unwise to wait until the water receded, as
the rivers in these parts sometimes run a banker
HE'D HAD A CHANCE TO COUNT THEM.
THE AGENT: "Of course they cost money. Think of it—there are a thousand parts
in a motor-car! "
THE PRISPECTIVE BUYER: "Yes, I know. The train ran into the last one I had and
I saw them all.”
for a fortnight, and occasionally overflow their
banks and connect with the nearest river miles
away. It was a swim of about 100 yards across
and a strong current running, but Jimmy said
“Him all right; takem horse over first time, come
back carryem saddle and cloth longa head, no
gettem wet. Off came the saddles and in we
went. It was a heavy struggle to reach the other
side, which we did, drifting about a quarter of a
mile down. After giving Jimmy a five-minutes’
blow I told him to go over and fetch one saddle
at a time, as I felt certain that the two saddles
would be an impossible load. “And,” I said, “what-
ever you do, don’t lose my whip.” It was a pre-
sent which I cherished. I sat on the bank and
smoked as I watched him swim across, almost
straight, To my horror he then put the two saddles
and saddle-cloths on top of his head, with the
double of the whip thrown across the lot, and waded
in. It was no use shouting to him to reduce the
load, as the roar of wind and water was almost
deafening. In he went, and swam against the
current on the quarter. He was making good head-
way, and was more than half-way over when I
saw trouble coming down-stream in the shape of
a log. I held my breath as the log got closer and
closer. Then the saddles gave a lurch and off
slid the whip. Jimmy made a grab with both
hands but missed it, and having got clear of the
log continued his course. I nearly chewed my pipe-
stem off, and was boiling with rage when he neared
the bank. “Why didn’t you bring only one saddle,
as I told you to?” I roared. “You’ve lost my
whip now.” “No more!” he answered as he waded
out from the deep water, dragging the whip, which
was firmly gripped between his big and second toes.
** ' *
John Sing ’: If I am not too late to butt
into the argument about egg-stealing crows, I can
settle it—that is, if “Bright” or “Two Seas” or
both of them will pay a visit to the farm of W.
Johnstone, Girgarre East (Vic.), where they will
see a common or garden crow (tame) that will
carry away unbroken more hen-eggs than either of
them would care to pay for at the present price of
this fruit. Moreover, his black nibs will not
turn up his nose at an odd turkey-egg if it happens
to get mixed in the bunch. I have seen several
china eggs carried away by crows, and I once shot
a crow flying overhead carrying an egg in his beak.
Crow and egg landed in a blackberry-bush, and the
egg—hen’s ; medium—was unbroken.
“Bright”: “Caloola” (B. 27/5/’2O) asks
for a cure for bots in his prad. Tell him to starve
the moke for 12 hours and then drench it with a
quart of milk fresh from the con-. Wait three-
quarters of an hour and give a beer-bottle of raw
linseed oil; also, if possible, six or eight drops of
crotean oil. The grubs adhere to the surface of
the paunch and are voracious eaters. Having been
starved for 12 hours they become hungry and de-
taeh themselves to gorge on the milk. The linseed
oil, being a strong purgative and quick to operate,
will bring them away by the hundred. The surest
sign that a horse has the bot is his habit of turning
bafck his top lip every few minutes.
“Bung”: With sublime assurance “Plain
Jane (B. 12/5/’20) asks us to swallow a jumbuck
fleece 741b. in weight, when from the best bred
and conditioned heavy wools it is an extremely rare
sheep that will turn off a coat of half that pound-
age. Anyhow, allowing that the first considerations
in estimating the value of wool are
weight and length of staple, will
some of the people who claim that
unshorn sheep grow abnormal fleeces
explain why wool-sellers and breeders
of studs for exhibition go to the
expense of a yearly shearing? On
Gibraltar Mountain, near Gidleigh
(N.S.W.), there are four comeback
sheep—three-quarter merino and one-quarter lin-
coln—that have remained unshorn since they
were lost from a travelling mob in 1915. They
look very woolly, but when one of them shoved
his foot into one of my rabbit-traps recently, 1
learned that his longfest wool measured less than
four inches. Last shearing I shore hundreds of
similarly-bred sheep with a wool staple of that
length or longer; and it was harely 12 months since
they had been to the barber’s.
* ♦ * *
“Jimsey”: Up our way the dingo knows
the crocodile so well that when a pack wants to
cross a croc.-infested river, one dog stays on the
bank and howls while the others cross some distance
down stream. Then they come on the other side
and howl while he gets over. /
“Tramp”: Re queer bush deaths. The
mailman on his round from Albany to Broome Hill
(W.A.) via Stirling Ranges found a dingo hanging
by the hind leg in a young mulga, and an opossum
in the tree just out of his reach. Evidently the
dog had sprung for the fur and in turning had
caught its foot in the narrow fork. As the trip :
was made only once a week, the dog may have been
there for some time, but the two were still alive.
The mailman captured the ’possum and scalped the
dog.
* * * *
“Broncho” : Re a recent par. about sea-
gulls and how far they have been seen inland. I
was sunning myself in front of the Coward Springs
Hotel in Centralia the other day, when a pair
of seagulls settled a few' yards away, and after
walking around one another a time or two began
preening their feathers. I have seen seagulls nest-
ing in thousands on the lakes of Coongy station,
Cooper's Creek, always building on the islands •
w'hich appear in some of the lakes as the water
goes down. After a rain, if seagulls happen to be
“off duty” from nesting, they fly practically all
over Australia, no place being out of bounds to
them.
* * * *
“C.M.D.”: I wonder if “Belmont’s” cham-
pion sundowner (B. 22/4/’2O) is Andy Durant. If
so 1 can add a little. He was 74 when he did the
trip “Belmont” describes—from the Diamantina
(N.Q.) to Port Lincoln (S.A.), and thence to Cool-
gardie. My father, who knew him at Mount Ida in
’97, tw r o years after the great tramp, describes him
as a fine old chap. He died at Menzies a few years
later.
* * * #
Rox”: “Bright’s” recipe for clearing
muddy water (B. 6/5/’2O) —a piece of gypsum fere-
mated on a shovel—is only second-best. When
travelling in N.-W. Queensland, especially in parts
where rain is shy, I found alum the thing. With it
one has not to wait all night for a bucketful of
dirty water to clarify. For months I carried, the
same piece of alum—it w-as about the size 6f a
walnut and with it I could clear a bucketful of the
muddiest water in a few minutes. The modus opur-
andi is to place the piece of alum in a mug or
pannikin, half fill the vessel with water from the
bucket, swill it round and round, and pour it back
into the bucket, retaining the piece of alum in the
cup. Repeat this operation five or six times, and
in a few minutes the clayey particles will be seen
to collect in larger bunches and sink to the bottom
of the bucket. The alum dissolved in the water
serves to bind together the minute particles of dust,
soil, etc., and sinks with them, leaving the water
pure and clear.
# * # *
“Inkpot”: During the last week in April
the beach at Fingal Point, Tweed Heads (N.S.W.-
Queensland border), swarmed with millions of tiny
black and silver fish. The gutters on the beach
looked like streams of ink, so dense were the small
visitors. When we walked through the water they
were ground into the sand beneath our feet. They
were about the size of a sardine, silver, with a
black streak down the backbone. Any Abo. know
what they were ?
* * * *
“Luke Thrice”: “Skinny” thinks it re-
markable that he found an albino abo. in Queens-
land. In Samoa, Tonga and other groups, pure-
blood native albinos are plentiful as blackberries—
considerably more so. The day I landed at Pago
Pago I walked into a shop and hailed a Swede
blue eyes, yellow hair, red leather neck complete.
“ e f f led t 0 <*>nnect with my Amerioanese.
T hats the matter with your squarehead there?”
I asked the boss. “Is he deaf?” “Squarehead!”
was the answer. “That’s ,my native clerk: a pure-
bred Niue boy.” Later I found other “pa’langi”
Samoans, some of startling resemblance to familiar
w .types. They were always extremely proud
of their albinism, and seemed to trade on it for
social standing. At Fasitootai, in Upolo, lives an
albino woman whose three brothers are also fade-
outs of the same sort. She has seven children,
three of them albinos, the others normal. Half- or
quarter-castes, by the way, never show albinism.
DECIDEDLY UNSUITABLE.
THE PARSON: "I do like to have business
men in my church; can't you induce
your husband to join?”
THE LADY: “ He's so unqualified, you know.
He drinks and smokes, patronises rac-
ing, uses fearful language and isn't a
profiteer.”
A BALLAD OF THE BLUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The boat goes up and the boat goes down
On the breast of the heaving deep.
I'd sell my stomach for half a crown,
And my soul for an hour of sleep.
Here in my cabin I lie and groan
As 1 brood on my sinful past ;
Insults for years at the sea I’ve thrown,
And it’s having revenge at last.
(Heave ho!)
It is “getting my guts” at last!
The boat goes down and the boat goes up ;
The ocean is troubled inside.
I think of my pristine sins: a pup
Which arrived at our house and died
I cast in the sea’s blue maw, nor guessed
That its innards I might derange;
The crime lies heavy upon my chest
For the canine had the mange.
(Shame! Shame!)
I knew it had got the mange!
The “azure sea,” of which poets sung,
Was to me but a rubbish-tip;
Into it bottles and bags I flung—•
Little wonder it has the pip!
A cat oft needing obstetric aid,
And a million banana-skins,
Were tributes by me to Neptune paid;
Now he’s charging me for my sins. ’
(Ye gods!)
I am paying for all my sins.
To think of its diet makes it plain
Why the ocean rises and swells.
At each convulsion I share its pain
And a sadness within me wells.
The mad ship lumbers and leaps and lists,
For the waves are many and steep;
Co-ordination at last exists
Between me and the heaving deep
(Heave ho!)
For I heave with the heaving deep!
AT SKA.
HARRISON O.
“Bill Bowyang”: If “Gouger” (B. 6/5/’20
will wait until I have cashed my gratuity bond,
I’ll come up his way and take him to the Bower Bird
on the Upper Leichhardt, where he will see one of the
quarries whence Binghi secured the stone for making
his axes. Some of these implements must have
been wielded by muscular individuals, for one which
I recently examined measured over nine inches through
at its thickest. The deep groove that “Gouger”
noticed across the head of the axe was for the
insertion of the handle, and the wood was fixed
to the stone blade with spinifex or beefwood gum.


3r
I, \
taJw
**
■
-' m
■
* m? *** L,
• 4 «i ***
* - *
* * *
* « «
*«
ii
* II
%
% 1
r I
m
m
m&-.
z*
«# I
,
A Beautiful Illuminated
Welcome to the Prince
displayed by the DUNLOP
RUBBER CO., Melbourne.
Color scheme —Outline of
building and “ Ich Dien ”
Riband in Royal Blue. Let-
tering in Ruby Red. Prince
of Wales Feathers (30 feet
in height) in White and
shimmering loose Silver
Leaf, brilliantly flood light-
ed in White. Points of
plumes picked out in sott
pearl like frosted globes.
Crown (shaped) in Gold,
lit by Amber globes —the
jewels being in Ruby and
Royal Blue.


0
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this* super - remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
LSSD
XJ
SSL
COLDS
COUCHS
5
CROUP
LO
is
CHCST
AFFECTIONS
(xl
□an*
W
0
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
ended ‘‘inconclusively.” The old Shaks-
peare that we thought we knew was obscure
.and shadowy as a citizen, and his bequest of
his second-best bedstead to his wife (I am
writing from memory, but I have that bed-
stead on my mind) wasn’t lofty or poetic.
Still, he wasn t a blot on the landscape when
viewed apart from his works, and the news
that he wasn’t himself but his own fellow-
countryman doesn’t take any load of shame
off the mind. It would have been utter,
blank calamity if Shakspeare lmd been
shifted out of the country, even as far away
as the Orkney Islands. But the removal of
"Jack the Ilipper” is a relief.
De Ilalsalle doesn’t labor his point. He
simply points out that the Ilipper perpe-
trated a series of crimes which Germans com-
mit in abundance and which are habitually
committed by no other known white people.
If a human being is scalped, the natural
tendency is to suspect an Indian if there
are Red Indians about. If he is killed with
a blow-pipe dart poisoned with wourali, a
hurried investigation sets in for a brown
man from the Essequibo way. Supposing
him to be harpooned at long range or
preached to death, a whale-fisher or a clergy-
man is indicated. Generally such indica-
tions are correct.
The real German, a man with a head
shaped like that of nobody else except per-
haps the negro, specialises in “lust murder.”
He has a special name for it just as for
oats or any other crop. This is seduction
followed by murder, even though there is no
crime to be covered, or murder done in such a
hurry that the seduction is omitted though
apparently intended. It is usually followed
by the elaborate cutting up of the body. Of
this many cases are quoted and the number
of trials for this crime and the lightness of
the sentences are amazing. No great horror
seems to be excited, just as brigandage or
the vendetta rouse no great indignation
where everybody feels that he might easily
be a brigand or the owner of a tame vendetta
himself. Among other habits the slayer
sometimes writes an elaborate account of the
crime and carries it about with him for
reference, and at times he keeps'in his pocket
a piece of the victim. The finding of a little
girl s hand in a man’s pocket is mentioned as
deciding which member of the family was
chiefly responsible. Cases are alluded to in
which the defendant admitted eating part of
the body—not that he was hungry, but be-
cause he was in an inquiring frame of mind.
Until recently a carefully supervised press
published little of this sort of news, but when
.supervision began to totter on its throne
some papers specialised in it.
Most German cities, it is alleged, have at
one time, or at various times, had a Ripper
or stabber, frequently of the abdominal
variety, and some practised on a far larger
scale than John of Whitechapel. So John
was probably a .stray sheep of the flock, who
had moved to the big foreign city which
could be most cheaply moved to (steerage)
and settled naturally in a locality where
heads shaped like his are almost as much
the rule as the exception. He was a sort of
Columbus or Captain Cook. De Halsalle
describes the German peasant as a fairly
habitual knife-carrier and user, so that he
has practice. And he has a mind quite dif-
ferent from that of the Latin knife-carrier —
a mind all his own which nobody-wants to
take from him. When anybody of another
nation shows traces of the same sort of mind
a German strain in the blood should be
looked for. Also it is mentioned that among
this race can be found specific laws against
necrophilism, evasively described in the dic-
tionary as *‘a morbid love for dead bodies.”
Among quite a number of races the code
struggles along without any very specific
laws against necrophilism.
In short, De Halsalle holds that Jack the
Ripper must have been a Hun because he
couldn’t be anything else, just as Looney
holds that Shakspeare must have been De
Vere because he couldn’t be anybody else,
and just as other authorities say a nigger
must be black because no other color is open
to him.
S.M.
Sunset Languages
“J.E.” (Red Page 27/5/’2O) declares
that old languages are better dropped
because they are less useful in factories
than those at present employed. This might
be all right if factories were the main busi-
ness of life; but as factories are merely
side-lines in bigger human endeavor, the
argument falls to the ground. The conten-
tion against little languages is exactly in
line with that advanced by Germany against
the rights of little nations. You cannot run
a successful factory in old Gaelic; you can-
not raise an army big enough to mop up
your neighbor’s property in a State like
Servia—the double story has the same key-
note.
To examine the claims of one of the
attempted language-revivals is the best way
to meet the absurd charge that it rests upon
sentiment alone. The Irish movement being
the strongest, I take it as the example. The
claims of this ancient and modern tongue
to continued use are (1) that in open com-
petition and before it was suppressed by
force it was stronger and made more head-
way than the English language, which has
more or less supplanted it; and (2) that
it is more expressive for all national pur-
poses than that English language.
As early as 1360 the following edict was
issued by Edward III:
As many of the English nation in the Marches
and elsewhere have again become like Irishmen
any of English race shall forfeit English liberty
if after the next feast of St. John the Baptist lie
shall speak Irish with other Englishmen, and mean-
time every Englishman must learn English.
Here is proof that, in the first two centuries
after the alleged conquest, Englishmen in
Ireland gave up their own language and
preferred Irish to such an extent that the
royal attention had to be called to the
serious matter. But the law did not stop
the use of the better tongue, for nearly two
hundred years later, according to the
Lister' “Journal of Archaeology,” in the
whole Irish House of Peers, of which every
member with the exception of MacGilla-
patnck was of Xorman-English descent, the
only person who could understand English
was the Earl of Ormond. That is proof
that in a competition of 400 years, with
the handicap of laws in favor of English,
the Irish language had driven its opponent
completely out of the castle and drawing-
room as well as out of the field and cabin.
After that the law got busier than ever
and English advanced a little, through the
start which it gained by the sudden death
of so many people who didn’t speak it;
but as late as the times of Elizabeth there
is a reference in a tale to a remark made
in English to a number of assembled nobles
which was not intended for the vulgar ear
and which had to be translated into Latin
that the nobles might understand it. On
all the evidence, Irish as a spoken tongue
"°n straight out wherever it came into
competition ; and only the law of the nine-
teenth century which forbade the teaching
of any language but English in the national
schools gave the final advantage to the im-
ported mode of speech.
On the second point—the comparative
power of expression given by English and
Irish—the best test is the extent of the
popular vocabulary. The number of words
used by the peasantry gets to the very
s s l ” t of t h e language; and here the word
°t -y r * f edersen, a Dane, who made a special
study of the language of the Arran Islands,
may be taken as unbiased:—
I have written down a vocabulary of 3000 words
from people in Roscommon who could neither read nor
write, and I am sure I fell 1000 short of what they
actually used. I should think the average in Mun-
™T> es Pf cl . all y j' l Kerry, would he between 5000 and
(>OOO. It is well known that many English peasants
use only 300 words, or from that to 500.
Thus the Irish language is such that it
enables its humblest users to express them-
solves as fully as the average Knglish
novelist, while the English language is such
that without special education its users
can t get very much further on the road of
expression than their own cattle. So the
revival of Irish is based upon the sound
logic that it is the best ixiedium of expres-
sion for the Irish people, and that wherever
tile English people have had free choice
between the two languages they also have
chosen Irish. It may be that, as “J.E.”
suggests, it is not the sort of language to
which wheels will readily turn; but it is
a curious fact that at 'the very moment
when a return to Irish speech has become
the fashion, the wheels of Ireland are turn-
ing more briskly than ever before. After
all, a people accustomed to express them-
selves in 6000 words are likely to be able
to add to their vocabulary more rapidly and
with better understanding than a people
accustomed to express themselves in 300. So
the talk about Irish as a “bow-and-arrow
language’ represents very bad and illogical
thinking even from a utilitarian point of
view.
C.O.M.
Centaur before the Lord
The third important British literary man
was James I. of Scotland. Chaucer and
Gower began it; James caught the habit
and submitted “The King’s Quair.” The
press-notices are not to hand, but posterity
is morq, important than journalism—if you
happen to be a king. A good many kings
have, had the scribbling itch. Alfred was
the most prominent man of letters of his
time. David and Solomon wrote good mat-
ter. One—probably more than one—of the
Ptolemies drove the quill. Other kings
have passed the habit on to their descendants.
Cosmo Gordon-Lennox hails historically
from Charles 11. and Nell Gwynn. And
R. B. Cunninghame Graham derives from
James I. of Scotland, who submitted “The
King’s Quair.”
Cunninghame Graham has been called
Don Quixote, an aristocrat, a dandy, a
realist; a hundred similar press insults have
been heaped on his head ; but his own phrase
of “centaur before the Lord” suits him best.
He is friends with any strong, honest man
living on horseback. If part of his friends’
entertainment is murder, Aztec aeroplanes or
the Italian method of cooking owls, no mat-
ter; he likes it, and, when he cares to, puts
it into sharp and vivid prose. He buys
horses in Argentina and Uruguay for the
British cavalry; he was a member of Parlia-
ment suspended for general misbehavior and
bad language. Shaw says he is a dandy;
lie looks like a Spanish grandee; he is a
Scots laird; he was imprisoned for bodily
assault upon the London police in a Trafal-
gar Square row ; and in the moments he can
spare from horses and other people’s griev-
ances lie writes keen and satisfying books of
thought and travel.
Sometimes his ironical mode of expression
leads him to the aggrandisement of the trivial
foi the sake of the ironical possibilities in
the trivial. That defect is consistent with his
method of throwing his books at the public
with full permission to take them or leave
them while he clears off to Morocco. No-
thing passes him. Fez drenched in heat
and glare, and a Scots body cracking with
jhei neighbor at the door \ Queen Victoria's
funeral, and the abuses of the River Plate
horse-trade; Cradley Heath chain-makers
and Parisian strumpets in war-time; Para-
guay and Parnell—nothing passes him. Even
his lapses into the trivial are engaging. An
instance—
Failure alone is interesting. Those who fail
after a glorious fashion, Raleigh, Cervantes, Chat-
terton, Camoens, Blake, Claverhouse, Lovelace,
Alcibiades, Parnell, and the last, unknown deck-hand
who, diving overboard after a comrade, sinks with-
out saving him: these interest us, at least they
interest those who, cursed with imagination, are
thereby doomed themselves to the same failure as
their heroes were.
That is written for the sake of its attrac-
tive obliquity. With the exceptions of Chat-
terton and Parnell, none of the cited cases
is a failure. Cunninghame Graham knew
that, but the dramatic “cursed with imagina-
tion” misstatement enticed him. Imagina-
tion is the greatest blessing in the world;
Cunninghame Graham knows personally that
it is worth its curses of sensitiveness and
practical inadequacy a hundredfold. Also,
it is fbe first quality of success in every
meaning of the word. But the sentence has
a better flavor than there is in the artificial
trivialities of, say, Oscar Wilde.
I see the man on horseback on the campo,
cold and statuesque as John Lavery’s portrait
of him, in the midst of a crowd of gauchos,
peones and half-wild horses. I see him watch-
ing an Argentine tango and the curl of the
dancer’s lip, or riding into the Aztec fast-
nesses, musing on interesting trivialities and
a good horseback philosophy of life and men.
I see him on his horse, thinking, to the end.
and writing only in a passing fatigue of
realities.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
A Satchel of Books
The Case for Nationalisation, by A. Emil
Davies, of the London County Council (Geo.
Allen and Unwin, London). The old argu-
ments for nationalisation of public utilities
are fortified by statements regarding the
operation of the Australian Commonwealth
Bank, the Insurance Departments of Maori-
land and Queensland, the State meat busi-
ness of Queensland and similar activities.
Practically all the statements are, however,
partisan ; and the book is of value only for
party propaganda purposes: it is in no sense
a scientific survey. The difficulties and
dangers have therefore little or no attention.
Mi-. Davies sees in nationalisation a means
by which may be taken away, ‘‘in exchange
for a fixed rate of interest, all the potentiali-
ties of future increased dividends.” That
is so. But what countries like Australia,
which go in extensively for nationalisation,
want to know is (1) how to prevent vote-
hunting Governments incurring heavy debts,
at rates of interest that have lately been
increasing rapidly, for hopeless enterprises;
and (2) how to compel the same vote-hunt-
ing Governments to work the enterprises in
a reasonably economical manner. Mr.
Davies need not bother so much about con-
verting the Pat Man to nationalisation as
about persuading the Labor man to give the
principle a fair trial. At present its great-
est enemies are the men who have got con-
trol of the Labor party machine.
Cecil Hartt hit the taste of the returned
soldier in his first volume <of humorous
sketches. Now, in More Diggerettes (A. C.
Sand ford, Sydney), he continues the series.
Perhaps the cream was taken off the mass of
yarns from France and Gallipoli by the first
book, but there is enough left to cause plenty
of mirth. Nobody draws the Digger more
convincingly than Cecil Hartt; so these Dig-
ger ettes have more permanent value than
many a big volume of history in preserving
for the future the view that the Aussie took
of himself during the long struggle.
The Bolshevik Adventure, by John Pol-
lock (Constable, London). Mr. Pollock,
who went to Russia in March, 1915, to do
relief work among war-refugees, and did not
return to England till towards the middle of
last year, is a violent anti-Bolshevik. He
takes the view that Bolshevism is a German
scheme, and “if we are to prevent Germany
from turning our victory against ourselves,
we must put down the Bolsheviks in Rus-
sia.” The writer had a strenuous time
towards the end, and averted trouble by tak-
ing a job as a theatrical producer. It has,
by the way, been urged that the Red Govern-
ment can’t be so grossly material at* has
been alleged, because it has figured as a
warm patron of the opera and the drama
On this point Mr. Pollock says:—
The Bolsheviks keep the theatres going and make
actors relatively comfortable, on the principle of
panem ct circenses—it they have not enough bread
to give the people, at least let them have more
snows.
On one other subject that has had a good
deal of publicity the writer says: “There
have been several suggestions of making
women from 20 to 40 public property. At
Saratov a scheme for enforced promiscuity
was worked out, though no attempt appears
to have been made to put it into practice.”
Ihe tiuth about Russia is hard to come by;
but this book, by a man who has lived for
the past four years in the country, makes one
veiy sceptical about the conclusions arrived
at by Professor Goode and other Bolshevik-
conducted tourists.
The Charm of the Etchers' Art is the
first of the Studio’s Graphic Arts Folios,
and contains 12 reproductions of recent plates
by Prank Short, D. Y. Cameron, James
Mcßey, E. S. Lumsden and others. The
photogravure reproductions retain nearly all
the quality of the originals—the bloom of a
good etching cannot be reproduced. M. C.
oalaman writes an introductory note. The
lono is worth having for Cameron’s,* drv-
pomt, The Royal Scottish Academy,” and
Lumsden s “Worshippers.”
The Inky Way
"Silas Snell”: There were at least 200
piessmen at the Melbourne “smoke night” in
honor of brethren visiting with Wales, every
man Jack in a boiled shirt and a black suit.
.Down to -0 years ago 19 out of 20 journalists
ot my acquaintance deemed it derogatory to
possess a dress suit, and scandalous to wear
a hard white shirt. I hav& a distinct recol-
lection of one Melbourne gathering of the
clan where the only man who had the temer-
ity to attend with a copious stiff white front
was forcibly held while his linen was deco-
rated with scurrilous epigrams and libellous
caricatures. That shirt has never since been
washed, and still bears the quatrain by a
favorite Australian bard :
All sympathy this wretch must lack;
By selfishness how curst he
Who puts fine linen on his back,
While poor men still go thirsty!
The song “Sam Holt,” which the editors
of the Australasian Students’ Song Book”
a PPfar to attribute to Banjo Paterson, editor
of Old Bush Songs,” was written by G
Herbert Gibson (“Ironbark”) and published
in The Bulletin in 1884 with the title “A
Ballad of Queensland.”
Yeais ago the late John Forrest promised
a London publisher to write his auto-
biography, but he never had the leisure to
complete the task, and death wrote “Finis”
after a few chapters. A firm of Australian
publishers was invited to issue a Life of
Forrest, but rejected the proposal with
emphasis, citing a similar venture on which
it had lost several hundred pounds. Appa-
rently Australia isn’t sufficiently interested
in its celebrities to read about them when
they are dead.


I
1
> v
n
n|
\
*•
J
r
m
-J
D
i
P
5*
'/..1
S 3
i
a
ii
■
■
i
1
a
i
XL
i
=3
=
■• ■■
.
: :
2^S
K
I
H
I
1
1
It
I
SIS
Iftflpj]
r sT for ■.a b 1 A >‘W&W$ A'<%T l '
Nf m n
.vs
Os'
::
$5
ft
Hi
1
1
The First Essential
IN
Tyre Construction
HIGHEST-GRADE
Plantation Rubber
Long before the tyre com-
mences to take shape in the
hands of the builder there
are vital factors affecting its
ultimate efficiency.
The best of high-grade rubber, care-
fully gathered in the model plantations
of New Guinea and Papua, is secured.
Only rubber that commands the
highest prices in the World’s markets
is passed for use in the sturdy
Australian- Perdriau Tyres and every
pound of rubber is critically examined
by experts before being passed to the
tyre builders.
The result of this careful selection is
reaped by Perdriau users.
A prominent firm of Auctioneers
in New South Wales write on 18’ li
May, 1920:
With reference to the two 31 x 4 covers
purchased from you on sth December.
1918.
These covers have been running con-
tinuously on the back wheels of our
Overland Car and have registered 11,000
miles.”
Perdriau Tyres render sturdy road
service and absolute tyre security.
Obtainable from
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD!
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH.


m
Stock
Values,
like this sheep, are apt to jump. Sometimes
they fall. But the owner is on safe ground
who is well prepared for any 'happening.
Consign sheep and cattle to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Alert salesmen, reliable, experienced and
expert.
Homebush Yards, Sydney.
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
r
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world.
VENUS
Vpencils
A
ď
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
! I
* /f -
-bib
a
ms
I r
ft)
-
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR SPEED
The in-a-hurry journeys make it well
worth your while to own a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings. You are al-
ways sure of getting there in time; no
waiting for tram, train, or other con-
veyance. You can save time and
money every journey on a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings. The easy
running, reliability, quality of work-
manship, and excellence of material
employed, have built up for B.S.A.
Fittings a reputation for quality
tp none. That is why the famo-r*
B.S.A. Trade Mark stands for the vmj
best in cycle construction.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
BIDE A BICYCLE BUILT Op
GENUINE
ittin Q3
THOROUGHLY BRITISH,
Send for B.S.A.
free.
D. Y. RENNIB
lrepresenting b.S.A. Co. LSeiJ.
Australian Buildings, MEL3OWKNE,
AITSiI]RALIAN
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
đ
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
d
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
BQLE 3ELUNG) ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House," 360 Collins Btreet, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
C SHVJ
e W fJp t
fa.
fa.
$
'V
tm
2C.
2£-
>i
%
g W 4^
C\\iBW Op
fa
$
$
■fa
%
%
•v
jsc.
*C
C 2
%
111
111 l
Up,
g W %
SS
fa
z-
-3
5S
a
C>
&
%
%
x"
>v iy v
Thistle Shirts
feel so good over the'
shoulders, arms, the
chest and down the
back that men who
wear them forget
they have shirts on,
See that Your
Next Shirt bears
the Thistle Label
Sold by all Leading
Shirt Departments.
Try Thistle Pyjamas
Alexander Stewart S Sons
Limited
Makers
Brisbane and Sydney
A. S. 21
ďada
d
URODONAL
' vw VJ* "Vlii
l .me? 'i
I k ;
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
From all Chemists and
Druggists throughout
Australia.
MAINTAINS YOUTH OP THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
i a Ives, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
Booklets containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from
Chatelain’s Australian Agency, 352 Kent Street, Sydney.
m
fills
lb
i%iK
Canno
Cleans
R-egula
elf
British.
cure
ABk
for
ONOTO
INK
Best
for
Pens
Business, Robbery, etc.
Really these profiteers show a shameless
lack of consideration for each other. A
witness lately told Victoria’s Fair Profits
Coinmisli. that he had prepared copious sets
of figures as to his charges and profits on
ladies’ tailoring, also many piece lengths
which he wanted the Commission to inspect,
but burglars had broken into his place the
night before and taken the lot away.
“Spare Corporal”: Sydney Repat. has
tired of issuing rabbit-traps to ex-Diggers.
Much has been printed about the big cheques
won by trappers, but little about the
failures. Yet many tyros sent into the
country with complete outfits and tucker
caught nothing but colds. The really big
cheques go to settlers who have large fami-
lies to help in the pursuit. And the happy
hunting-grounds where they find the cheques
are jealously guarded against invaders.
* * * *
“The I)un”: I was instructed to collect
a sum of £lB-odd from a gentleman whose
name you all know very well, a represen-
tative citizen, and a politician whom his king
delighted to honor. I knocked at the door.
It was opened to me. I asked if I might
see the master of the house. The master of
the house presented himself cheerfully
enough. “Good morning, sir,” I said. “I
am a debt collector.” He looked me in the
eye. “A debt collector?” said he. “You’re
not—not here.” And he slammed the door.
¥ * * *
“Skinologist”: In reply to “J.G.’s” query
(B. 20/5/20) as to the value of wombat
skins. “.T.G.’s” informant is quite correct
in assessing the value of the Australian
wombat or badger at next to nothing. The
Australian wombat skin referred to as being
offered in the American market is not the
true Australian wombat, but Norman Lind-
say’s old friend the native bear, or koala.
The Yanks, for some reason or other, have
always called our native bears wombats, so
the Australian skin exporters mostly use
this name when invoicing.
* * * •
“En O.” : A few days ago I called in at
a little store in one of the Mountain dis-
tricts of Victoria, and noticing something
unusual on the counter I asked the store-
keeper what it was. “Yes,” he told me, “it’s
a lifebelt, sure enough.” “But,” I said,
“what are you doing with such a thing up
here?” “Well,” he replied, “the Govern-
ment sent me up a sackful -of the things to
sell. I had a look at the lifebelts; they were
all marked “Commonwealth of Australia. Sur-
plus stores.” The store isn’t far from the
Prime Minister’s week-end shack, so he can
swim in and see for himself.
* * * *
“Senex”: I reached for the salt when I
read “Dropped Anchor’s” ink-splash (B.
“w4/’2O) about the ship Drumali% making
the Capetown-Newcastle (N.S.W.) passage
in 14 days. I don’t think even the queenly
Thermopylae herself could have done it under
20 days, and the old “Alice” was built with
an eye to cargo capacity rather than to speed.
In 1900 the beautiful little full-rigged ship
Machrinhanish, 1700 tons, flew from the
Cape to Bluff (M.L.) in 22 days, and the
old hooker I served my time 'in, a huge four-
master of 3175 tons, the Osborne, made
Frisco on the 26th day from Newcastle in
the same year. The fastest sailing passage
ever made was the old Dreadnought’s run
of 9 days 17hrs. from New York to Queens-
town (Ireland) in 1854 —nearly 13 knots
per hour for the whole run.
* # * *
Moralisings from Macquarie-street
The fat old capitalists whom Norman Lindsay
draws so well are by no means the real representa-
tives of capital. These poor old men, with a blood-
pressure about 250hg.m., slow of intellect and per-
verted of judgment, clinging to the sensual pleasures
of life, are not persons of whom anyone need be
afraid, nor upon whom anyone need waste any con-
tempt. The real dangerous men are the lean and
hungry managers of great institutions. They are
as far as possible from the fat men of the cartoons.
Your true capitalist has brains, works if necessary
all round the clock, and is alert and quick-witted.
Why on earth he bothers to do all these things I
don’t understand, because he probably dines off
a mutton-chop and bread and butter pudding, or
even a boiled egg. He plays tennis and golf on
Sundays, if he can’t get away to his little farm for
the week-end. He doesn’t jazz, or smoke expensive
cigars, or drink expensive wines, or indulge his
sensual tastes, rarely goes to the theatre, and gets
most of his fun out of work. These are the men
really dangerous to Labor. The working-man, com-
monly, remains a working man because Tie has no
brains, or won’t use what he has, and lets himself
be led by the nose by a McGirr, or a Dooley, or a
McTiernan, or any other of the clan who cluster
round John Storey. And he wants to work about
six hours a day, or four, or less if the world will let
him. The true prototype of Norman Lindsay’s pic-
tures is T. J. Ryan ; and probably that ignoble poli-
tician will become a large capitalist "Simself soon if
-the published reports of his income are correct.
A LAY OF H.C.L.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A jug of water and a piece of bread
Beneath the bending of a winter bough
Are articles that fill my soul with dread
And wrinkle up my brow.
They may suffice for singing when the sun
Burns earth and herbage to a hasty brown ;
The record stands that Shelley on a bun
Made music of renown.
On bread and onions Sparta in her pride
Stood up and sent a brazen challenge clear
Across some portions of th’ .Egean tide
To Xerxes’ purple ear.
The ravens fed Elijah; Esau sold
His birthright for a plate of lentil stew.
I would not emulate those men of old
Or such dead feats renew. #
Added to graces of the moving air
1 find the force of three good meals a day
Inspires a measure blithe and debonair
To chase dull care away.
The simple situation I must sing
In measured cadence till all earth resounds:
At present rates to worry through till spring
I need a thousand pounds 1
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY
If It’s a Battery
Be Sure It’s New
It isn’t good business to
buy a battery that may be
months old when you get it.
The only safe thing to do
is to buy a Willard Battery
with Threaded Rubber Insu-
lation that has been shipped
and stored bone dry, and con-
sequently is brand new when
it begins to work for you.
This is only possible with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
Allard Threaded Rubber Insulation
STORAGE
BATTERY
&
A
0
■»
Us


Hose of Luxite
is made in your favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you , write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
It
<7/
Make Your Skin
Like Velvet
DON'T you wish your
face was as smooth
and fair as your body? It
would be if protected
from wind and dust. If
you want a clear smooth
skin.
Follow this simple formula —
“A little CREME ELCAYA
nibbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
powder over all.”
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 476-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Cr£me Eicaya
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
%
1
1
Simple Way"
The simple and practical way to polish
and preserve finished surfaces is to use
Johnson's Prepared Wax with a cloth.
You need no brushes, sprays nor mops.
Just apply the wax with a cloth and then
polish with a dry cloth. With very little
rubbing you can produce a lustrous polish
of great beauty and durability.
0
%
is more than a polish. It is also a wonderful
preservative, for it forms a thin protecting film,
which preserves the finish unusually well.
Use Johnson’s Prepared Wax to polish all your
furniture, woodwork and floors. You will thus
add years to the life and beauty of the varnish,
covering up all surface scratches.
tor, iwfil
sstoajf
JOMNSOHIV
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
can be had in both pasta
and liquid form
for polishing floors,
oil-cloth, tile, etc;
for polishing furniture,
woodwork, motor cars,
etc. Ask your dealer for
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
and begin to enjoy the
simple way.
paste
wood,
liquid
S. C. JOHNSON 8 SON, 379 K t^ Syd#ey ’
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
M. 11. Bottoms, who has had to scorn
delights and live laborious hours for years
to carry out special work as private sec-
retary to Vic. Ministers and as registrar
of the Council of Education, has been made
chief clerk of the Education Department.
Bottoms’s brother is Bartleman, the singer.
After a long innings as secretary and
engineer of Tullaroop (Vic.) shire, F. T.
Outtrim handed in his checks a few days
ago. He was a brother to A.R., “Father”
of the Vic. Assembly, and of the late F.L.,
who was Deputy-P.M.G. in Melbourne. F.T.
preferred to be a village Hampden, lie
was 80.
A Melbourne pickpocket, caught in the act
of abstracting a wallet containing £56 from
a man’s pocket, pleaded the bad example of
the Federal politicians as his excuse. And
the Law apparently saw some justice in the
plea, for it handed him only tt month and
suspended the sentence on good behavior
for a year.
Melbourne is wondering whether Aikman
has sacrificed his chance of a “handle” in
his anxiety to ensure that his guests should
meet the Prince. When H.R.F. suggested
that he should leave the civic ball immedi-
ately after supper, Aikman merely said
“What nonsense !”-—quite loud, too —and led
him down to the hall again. Edward didn’t
seem to mind; but it was a risk!
H.R.H. evidently has a frugal mind.
After the second “pleasure dance” at a big
Melbourne laid his lighted cigarette
on the back of one of the long seats, remark-
ing, “I’ll finish that afterwards.” Of course
one of the young guests picked it up, nipped
it out and put it in her puff-bag. At the con-
clusion of the dance the Prince came back
for his Woodbine, and, looking around
blankly, remarked, “Somebody’s pinched it!”
“Packer”: A tremendously rich Melbourne
draper was helped along the road to wealth
by a devoted man who seemed to live only
for his job. For 40 years he rose early and
went to bed late; he scorned overtime, and
cheerfully murdered his Saturdays for four
decades. At intervals the rich man (who
probably meant it) told Bill that he needn’t
worry about his old age—he would be pro-
vided for. The boss died a while ago leaving
a row of millions. Bill heard the news with
a sigh and a smile and waited. Then the
axe fell. He had been forgotten—lost sight
of amongst the millions! Then poor old
Bill, with his lifetime of devotion gone to
waste, laid down the hammer he was nailing
up a packing-case with, and got off a boiling
oration. The gist of it was that even if he
had only the overtime he had worked since
1887 he would be independent. And the
moral was: Don't give the boss tick for a
lifetime; collect once a week.
“0.K.”: Talking of the Worrell case it
should be generally admitted, without any
hypocritical pretence of horror in the admis-
sion, that a nagging wife is the most fre-
quent cause of wife-murder. The drunken
man doesn’t go home and slay his spouse
because she’s a gentle, forbearing creature,
but because she gives him a bit of her
tongue. The man with a discreet, crafty,
smiling wife forms no 'violent attachments
to strange goddesses, but if she be of the
forcibly complaining sort she runs at least
some little risk of sudden or lingering death
at Lothario’s hands. Doubtless what the
London detective suggested is true —that
“many deaths of women which have been
accepted as accidental because apparently
motiveless were murders committed by hus-
bands to whom the ladies had been faithful
wives and efficient and economical house-
keepers, but intolerably disagreeable com-
panions.” Hateful companionship is more
likely to become utterly unbearable to a re-
fined person than to a vulgarian. I remem-
ber the outcry in England, many years ago.
when a country clergyman who had killed
his wife escaped hanging on the plea of
madness, and somebody wrote in Punch :
A parson has a shrewish wife
Who little things complains about:
He gets enraged and takes her life
By scattering her brains about.
Could that gentleman in holy orders have
got a divorce from his wife on the ground
that only an angel could live with her. and
he was not an angel, the tragedy would not
have occurred. He was more unhappily
circumstanced than even a worker in a four-
roomed cottage, for the laboring man and
his wife do get eight or more hours of daily
relief from their bondage, whereas the par-
son in a small country parish had tpe nag
mostly under the same roof with him by day
as well as night.
THE GIRLS THAT ONCE WERE MINE.
[For Tub Bclletix.]
’Tis years and years since first we kissed.
The moment was divine
When, braced no longer to resist,
I held her ’neath the vine.
All in a day of amethyst—
The girl that once was mine.
And now she looks with cool, grey eyes
If she may come my way,
And from her check no color flies,
Nor there the blushes play.
Her glance indifference implies.
She drawls < dry “Good day !”
And she of nc. supple waist.
With sloe-black eyes ashine,
Time has no dainty charm effaced —
The lip is red as wine.
The figure just as roundly braced.
Oh, girl that once was mine!
Now four small children laughing run
To greet her. When we met
Me talked of babies, showed me one.
She thought ’twould rain, and yet
I once had been her moon and sun.
llow can a girl forget?
Miranda, brown of cheek and hair,
Her bosom was a shrine.
None was so sweet, and none so fair,
No tenderness so fine
In golden days of one glad year,
Dear girl that once was mine!
To-day unruffled is her brow.
When 1 come nigh, her head
Turns not, nor burns her small mouth now,
Nor glows her cheek so led.
Yet ’tis but six short years, 1 vow,
Since she and I were wed !
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


n
rnifW m
mmi
m
WB
w* mu
'T>
&
o
o
*
vr
I
VA
mimmu,
wimmi.
muiimu.
-*wm
miimimwd
twimimimui
y/iiiiuiiimtiiiwiiil
2751
m
vmt,
FREEDOM FROM CARBON
Bewaie when 3park plugs start to miss and your engine knocks
on the hills. Excessive carbon means scored cylinders, broken
rings, broken plugs and many other upsets.
The use. of “Texaco” Motor Oil means a complete solution
of the carbon problem. The burned product from Texaco
is soft and fluffy, never hard and flinty, and is blown off with
the exhaust.
The importance of this feature of “Texaco” Motor Oil cannot be over
emphasised. It is due to the character of the crude oil used and the
unusual care taken in refining.
“Texaco” Motor Oil means a clean, sweet-running engine always. Ask your
garage.
TEX-ACO
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Aust.), Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth,
Hobart, Launceston.
South Australian Agents:
Geo. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
TEX'ACO
TEXACO
MOTOR OILS
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
(Branch Works at Williamstown, Victoria.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
Steam-driven Pumping Set, comprising Triple Expansion Q.R. Forced
Lubricating: Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 651 b. per square inch.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY: THE EAST:
libson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd. L. Hinks & Co. Ltd. McAlister and Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE: ADELAIDE: PERTH:
Ingineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
Compare it with other plants.
The Western Electric Battery has a
capacity of 180 Ampere Hours on the
8-hour rate of discharge. Intermittent
rating, 288 Ampere Hours.
m.
"
m
Ask your local electrician.
Engine SMli.p. Air Cooled, Throttle
Governed, Automatic Fuel Feed and
Imbrication. Generator, 1500 Watts.
ď
Clicß! And there’s electric light
or power whatever you need.
2TA
7tu
OCB&QBS
res*
n
Q=S
T
HINK cf the joys of an electric-light plant that gives real power as well, in two
ways. That’s why Western Electric Power and Light is head and shoulders
above all other lighting plants. It’s so big and strong. It works for its
living! Western Electric Power and Light floods the farm with electric light. And
because the battery is bigger than others, there is plenty of current always for
operating an electric iron, cooker, toaster, washing-machine, sewing-machine
and the wonderful Utility Motor that does so many handy jobs around the
farm. To cap the lot, you can use the 3ih.p. engine as a separate power
outfit for driving light machinery. No other plant will do that.
Western Electric Power and Light runs on kerosene. It’s automatic and fool-proof. No other
outfit can stand up to it for farms, stations, hotels, schools, churches, stores, schools of art,
etc. You’ll have no doubts once you see it. Write for 20-page booklet, post free.
Western Electric
Power and Light
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. 262 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS:—T. Tonks, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane; Newton McLaren, Leigh Street, Adelaide;
Medhurst Electric Co., 11 Argyle Street, Hobart; A. D. Riley & Co., Lambton Quay,
Wellington, N.Z.; also at Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z.
da


Miss Hilda Craig
Tells How Cuticura
Healed Eruption
“My trouble began with my receiv-
ing a cut on my head and foreign mat-
ter entering into the wound
caused it to break out in
eruptions all over my head
and face. The eruptions
appeared scattered with an
itching sensation. The skin
was inflamed all round them
and my hair fed out in hand-
fuls. Myfacewasdisfiguredandl could
not sleep for the itching and burning.
“I then sent for a free sample of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment and after
using I could see an improvement so
I bought more which healed me."
(Signed) Miss Hilda Craig, 50 Crock-
ford St., Port Melbourne, Vic.
Cuticura Soap daily and Cuticura
Ointment occasionally tend to pre-
vent pimples, blackheads or other
eruptions. The Soap cleanses and
purifies, the Ointment soothes and
heals.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Soap shaves without mug.
f
Williams
Talc Powder |
TRY Williams' Vio-
let Talcum Powder.
Learn how fine and
smooth it is how
delicate and pleasing
is the delightful per-
fume—how refresh-
ing it is to your skin.
The patented hinged cover
which opens with press of
thumb makes it easy to use
the powder and retains the
full fragrance of the per-
fume in all its freshness.
Choose also from Williams’
Carnation, English Lilac,
La Tosca Rose, Matinee
(new) and Baby Talc
all equally delightful and
soothing.
m
Williams’
Talc Ponder
violet
net WT 4 O z
0R39
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
If any illustration appearing in The.
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the>
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Fairbanks - Morse
“Y” Oil Engines
*
Y‘
7
4
%
Reliable
Power
at Low
Cost
THE "7” Oil Engine produces power at a mini-
mum cost because it operates efficiently on
low-priced oils fuel oil, crude oil. stove oil,
“Solar” oil, gas oil or kerosene—and because it con-
sumes less fuel per horse power than other engines.
The ”Y” Oil Engine is simple in construction and practically
automatic in operation and regulation—no carburetors, batteries,
mixers,valves, timers, igniters, magnetos, switches or sparkplugs.
Special quick-starting device; air seal prevents oil from being
blown out of bearings; positive lubrication, sensitive governor.
No hot bulb—no water injection.
Size3‘from 10 to 200 H. P. Every “3"'Oil Engine is guaran-
teed by Fair bank I-Morse Quality —an assurance of reliability,
economy and efficiency.
DANGAR, GEDYE k COMPANY, Ltd., Pydney.
JAMES WARDIjE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd.,
Masterton, N.Z.
A. 0. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks. Morse fcr(S
I INCORPORATED I* 1 MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
London. England
Buenos Aires, Argentina
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. QLOWREY, Proprietor.
m
i
*
as
mmx
C-YALE
«£Z3B»
Q
fi)
x
Protect
Your Own
Castle
“An Englishman’s home is his
castle.” It is by tradition, im-
pregnable and free from in-
trusion. Your home can be
equally secure, and complete
privacy maintained by the use of
Yale
Builders’ Locks and Hardware
With “Yale" on guard, you and
only you, with a key that was
made only for your lock, can open
your door.
There is a substantial beauty and
artistic finish to Yale Builders*
Locks and Hardware Door
Closers, Night Latches, and Cab-
inet Locks, that make them also
an ornament to your home.
The Trade-mark “Yale” is on all
of them, including Yale Padlocks,
Bank Locks and Chain
Blocks.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. COMPANY
New York Established 1868 U. S. A.
d
ď
(MD
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features
1 — Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
o —Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PER ROT, Sole Australian Agent
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
"Forester”: I am prepared to concede
whatever “O. K. Eden” (B. 27/5/’2O) likes
to say about the virtues of the late Robert
Cunningham, or any other Gippsland
pioneers of the ’forties named Cunning-
ham. But what has that to do with the
name Cuninghame, which Lakes Entrance
bore for a while, or with the Cuninghame
it was named after?
“T.P.”: Years ago a celebrated scientist
proved that “if the 1200 handshakes which
the average man gives in a year were con-
centrated, he could lift an 80-ton engine with
the force.” After a night of anguished
mathematical calculation I worked it out that
thus far, in M.L. and Australia, the Prince
has wasted enough power to throw all the
mayors and their addresses three miles out
to sea.
“T. 0.1.”: The “misfit” hanging of Wil-
liam Curtin in 1826 (B. 3/6/’2O) was not
the only case of the kind in old Botany Bay.
On September 12, 1803, Joseph Samuels was
tried, convicted and sentenced to death
for stealing money, the property of Mary
Breeze, at Sydney. Eight days later he was
three times suspended. The cord first
parted in the centre; on the second attempt
the rope unrove at the fastening; the
third time the rope snapped short. The
provost-marshal reported the matter to Gov-
ernor King, who let the man keep his life.
Having joined the Republicans, Herbert
Clarke Hoover may be the nominee of that
party in the U.S. Presidential election this
year. Hoover spent part of 1807 as a min-
ing engineer on the North Coolgardie (W.A.)
goldfields; lie was then only 23. He came
back to W.A. in 1002 as a partner in
Bewick, Moreing and Co.; between whiles
he was chief engineer in the Chinese Im-
perial Bureau of Mines, and saw the Boxer
rebellion.
Most women have wondered who is re-
sponsible for Queen Mary’s millinery, but
the awful secret is out at last. When the
Prince was sitting out a dance the other
night, he asked to be excused while he
glanced over a letter just received from
mamma. The irreverent youth was palpably
tickled by the contents, and explained that
at the time of writing her Majesty was
trimming another hat. Evidently he couldn’t
help grinning when he visioned the result.
Passed out at Toowoomba (Q-), Mary
Elizabeth, relict first of C. J. Lightbody and
secondly of A. G. Walker. She was the eldest
daughter of Charles-Blaxland, of Ryde, who
was fourth son of that Gregory Blaxland, of
Brush Farm, who led the first successful
expedition across the Blue Mountains. Her
second husband was the second son of the
Deputy-Commissary of that name; he mar-
ried first a grand-daughter of Governor
Davey of Tasmania; and secondly, in 188 b,
the recently-deceased lady.
A Bulletin par. of some months ago
chronicling the death of an ex-M.L.A. of
N. S. Wales, who stumbled and then went
to the front under another name, has had
a result. Political friends came forward,
the writer of the par. supplied declarations,
and the widow is now receiving a pension
which makes her moderately comfortable.
The moving spirit in the matter was ex-
Premier Holman, who had been looking after
the ex-M.L.A.’s family with a generosity for
which he asked no advertisement.
J. H. Dyer. Minister Hutchinson's prede-
cessor as member for Borung in the Vic.
Assembly, is nearly blind. It was Dyer
who stayed behind after a deputation one
day to give Thomas Tait, then Chief Rail-
way Commissioner, the advice that if he
did not talk in a more conciliatory fashion
people would kick up a row. Tait whis-
pered to Dyer to go right home and tell his
constituents to kick up the very devil if
they liked. Then he offered him a second
cigar to keep the first one company.
“Spare Corp.”: The soldiers employed at
the Barracks were the first to gather the
gratuity fruit. It was originally intended
that the bonds should be issued first to 1914
veterans, war widows, and other chosen
classes; but this having been abandoned in
favor of issuing the bonds i*n order of appli-
cation, the men on the spot saw to it that
they were in early. I have already shared
in the liquidation of some gratuity money,
and the man who bought the drinks was
neither a married-sinee-discharge, nor a long-,
service.
“Tip-cart”: It is possible that another of
the decisions of Hood, J., on the Vie. Fac-
tories Act may go up to the High Court.
Hood upheld the view of Harris, P.M., that
it was not an offence for sons usually em-
ployed by their father, a cartage contractor,
to bring gravel for the garden-path of the
family home on the weekly half-holiday. Ex-
perience has shown that factory Legislation
is needed as much to protect youths of both
sexes from sweating by their own parents
as by strangers. It was absurd to prose-
cute a man for carting his own furniture
on a half-holiday, as was done at the end
of 1913; and it would be absurd for the Law
to say that a son may do nothing on a
Saturday afternoon for the improvement of
the family home. But the judgment opens
the way to parents to sweat their children
at their regular calling, only ostensibly for
the improvement of the family home; and
that is a very different matter.
At Surry Hills (Sydney) police-station a
breathless citizen arrived with the story of
a man who had put his head over a fence
and announced that he had “done his wife
in with an axe.” The police fell into a
motor-car and raced to the scene of the
tragedy. The murdered wife, looking sur-
prisingly well for a corpse, received them at
the door, and mentioned that they would
find her husband in the kitchen cleaning up
the mess. And in the kitchen they found
him vigorously mopping up imaginary blood-
stains and explaining, incidentally, that the
worst of murders was that they were messy
things and gave a bloke a lot of work.
Whereupon the lady said he had told her
that there, was to be “another Worrell tra-
gedy. only with an axe,” but as she was
used to that sort of remark her placidity
was undisturbed. By this time the John
-Hops were looking dazed, but they removed
the man to the Reception House in case of
{accidents.


Stop Torturing
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece'of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic..
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping- nerve; hardens quickiv, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just *s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
da
&
o &
Handy Corn Cure will set rid of every eorn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
■ .
rat**
s'
SOME-
TH'*?*!
wr
§?S
&
m
m*
S 3
O
N>
&
S“
"n
SOREWHROAT
This is not a trivial
complaint.
It is due to weakness
of the bronchial tubes.
If neglected it may
develop into some chro-
nic, bronchial affection.
Such an ailment is a ser-
ious handicap throughout
life.
In youth it means
frequent absence from
school. In business it
prevents advancement.
Who cares to be served
by a coughing sales-
woman ?--to interview a
wheezing man?
Safeguard the future
by looking after these
minor ailments now.
To strengthen a weak
throat nothing is equal to
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. It reduces in-
flamation and allays
irritation which causes
coughing.
It gives tone to the
weakened tissues of the
throat, strengthens the
bronchial tubes and at
the same time builds up
the system. When the
throat is healthy in-
fluenza and diphtheria
germs cannot obtain a
foothold.
Above all things never
neglect a child’s throat
for it may mean years of
suffering for it in after
life.
%yu?vi j<n JfcaM. .
COUGH REMEDY
H RAMNY 4&1/1MBERUIIN
(CoPv(?iCnTEID)
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
:his disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment .in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy wch
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
dtranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should bfe taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
may be avoided.
Ce Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic anu
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediatf and permanen*
relief.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
pr j.Coflis Brownes
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE HEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and iu tlie Cough of UKONCUITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEKISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, Hi, SI-, SI--
Hade in England.
da
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney—equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
are Sole Agents in Australia, is the Razor we have used in our Saloon for over
30 years. Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annually. Its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair in Double Case, 25/-
We keep it in order for tw T o years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
ensland
is
calling
da
dad
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name ■
Address •'
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
d
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting) ; starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4,5, 6£ and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET. PETRIE'S BIGHT, BRISBANE.
(Trams pass near by.) Works- —Yeerongpilly. [2


A. Saunders’ Hunting Kit Bag, solid nickel fittings, canvas
lining: 18-inch, 55/-; 20-inch, 63/-; 22-inch, 70/-:
24-inch, SO/-
A. Saunders’ Attache Writing Case, detachable
fitted with every convenience, £2/10/-
Others, £2, £B.
blotter,
TflyWygV/fr r?\r f \ • ft vyy>r» t ■ *\'cyryn- '^•^yyrr^/rr/ft v^,
A. Saunders’ solid Oak Glove Box, solid Nickel Mounts,
12/6.
Useful Gifts.
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 3-piece Carving
Set, C Table Knives, 0 Dessert Knives, 0 Table Forks, 0
Dessert Forks, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 3-piece Carving Set, Xylonite Handles, finest-
quality hand-forged Sheffield Steel, 22/6
Others, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Swan Fountain Pen, 14et. gold, iridium-
pointed nib, plain, 14/-
Two 9ct. Gold Bands, 22/6, 23/6, 25/-, 27/6.
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’
canvas-lined,
Solid Leather Suit-case, solid nickel fittings,
cap corners. 20-inch, 72/0; 22-ineh, 77/6;
24-inch, 84/-; 26-inch, 90/-
A. Saunders’ Soldier’s or Tourist’s Canvas-fitted
Toilet Roll, all metal unbreakable fittings, 30/-
Smaller size, 21/-. Larger, 25/-, 35/-,
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, real Morocco Leather,
sterling Silver Mounts and Shields, 30/-
Others, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
condense 0
P
ILK
BRAND
NEST
tra° a
AUS
MADE
NOtNSBP
WAHGIO SWISS CO
N Ey • -
ft
H° B fi
Melbou
I. L AID.t
Perth
m
l
s>
ft"
FZ
m
7
§
m
159
L 6
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


Amusement*.
H Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McIISIOSH.
-j- IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents MISS LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“|“IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE AND HIS LONDON
COMEDY CO. in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Prices as usual.
HIC It MA.IES T Y ’ S. SVI>N 15 V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND HOLIDAYS at 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
Bv the J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
CK I T 1C It IO N T H EA T It IC. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday at 2.
J. D. O’HARA and his Brilliant Company in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
Plans at Paling’s.
rHEATRE ROYAL, SYI>N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinGes Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
CARTER THE GREAT
AND HIS MAGICAL COMPANY.
A LINK WITH THE OTHER WORLD.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THE A T ItE, SYI)N E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
u
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 19.
J. and N. TAIT have pleasure in presenting
MISS MARIE ILKA
in the great drama of Love and Beauty,
TIGER ROSE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
MON PIC T U It E T II E A T It E 8
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
H
Elt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, M ISLUOU ItNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present a musical
play de luxe,
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Latest
London Success,
YES, UNCLE.
Plan at Allan’s,
Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE, MISLItOSi It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
I. & N. TAIT present the fascinating English actress
EMELIE POLINI in
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL,
A Fascinating English Comedy Drama.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BAILEY and GRANT present the last nights of the
great Love and Laughter Australian Sunshine Play,
ON OUR SELECTION.
All the Rudd family come to town to greet the
Prince of Wales.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
The playhouse, Melbourne.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT present the greatest of all Digger
Shows,
THE SMART SET DIGGERS,
in a musical barrage,
THE DIGGERS’ DREAM OF LONDON AND PARIS.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Town hall, Melbourne.
Direction CHAPPELL.
ENGLAND’S LEADING VOCALISTS.
AMY EVANS, Soprano.
FRASER GANGE, Basso-cantante.
MELBOURNE CONCERTS:
SPECIAL EXTRA MATINEE, SATURDAY, JUNE 19.
Sydney Season commences Tuesday, June 29, at 8 p.m.
Town hall, Melbourne.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
SATURDAY, JUNE 19; TUESDAY, JUNE 22;
THURSDAY, JUNE 24 (Matinee).
J. & N. TAIT present the Russian Poet of the Piano,
MOISEIWITSCH.
Prices, 6/-, 4/- and 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MARGUERITE CLARK in
LUCK IN PAWN.
PRISCILLA DEAN in
THE SILK-LINED BURGLAR.
Prices as usual.
DRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
jyj A.TESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
H. B. WARNER in
FOR A WOMAN’S HONOR.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nivhts at 8.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
I AIiAIS tie DANSE-
-ST. KILDA.
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
EVERY EVENING.
PALAIS DE DANSE,
ESPLANADE,
ST. KILDA.
DANCING 8 till 11 DANCING
Entrance 1/-, plus tax, Id. Continuous Dancing.
Each Dance 3d. Private Loges, 2/- (four) ; 3/- (six).
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
M
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PAIHE,
WORLD and SELZNTCK.
HE
HEVEORD-SMITH SCHOOL OF
» DANCING.
THE LATEST ENGLISH BALLROOM DANCES
TAUGHT.
ADULT EVENING CLASSES.
PRIVATE CLASSES. PRIVATE LESSONS.
SCHOOLS VISITED.
For particulars apply
54 TOORAK ROAD, SOUTH YARRA, MELBOURNE.
CLASSES RESUMED FIRST WEEK IN JUNE.
Tenders.
Norfollts Coachbuilding Works, Mackay.
t N consequence of the death of the late Owner,
■I tenders are invited for the purchase of the above
well-known business Plant, Stock in Trade, etc., as
a going concern, “a walk-in-walk-out” transaction.
This business has a splendid reputation, and is
undoubtedly the best of its kind in NORTH
QUEENSLAND.
Full particulars may be obtained from the under-
signed. The highest or any tender not necessarily
cICCGptGCI*
Tenders will be received up to 12 noon on 30th
June, 1920.
P. T. DUNWORTH.
F. S. WILLIAMS,
Victoria Street, Mackay.
Katoomba.
ON THE BLUE MOUNTAINS.
SOMETHING SPECIAL AND UNUSUAL.
Good Soil Areas from £l6 per acre.
Also Choice Building Lots
from 4/- per foot.
EXTENSIVE VIEWS
RIGHT AT
THE EXPLORERS’ TREE.
ON GREAT WESTERN ROAD.
A position that will speedily grow in value.
GOOD SPEC. SAFE INVESTMENT.
EASY TERMS.
Write or Call for plan.
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
LTD.,
4 and 6 Castlereagh Street, near
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Wanted.
TO GUNSMITHS.
TT? ANTED.—A first-class GUNSMITH
TT MECHANIC; constant employment
at good wages. Apply with copies creden-
tials, and stating age—
COLONIAL AMMUNITION COMPANY,
LTD., Auckland, New Zealand.
Business Notice.
June 1920 Special Lines Post
1. The “Barry” Self-filler Fountain
Pen, British made, fine or medium gold 14/6
mb. Post free
2. Nickel Pocket Knife, two blades, with ring
each end to open, does not injure the finger 4/9
nails. Made in Sheffield. Post free
3. Nickel, Sheffield Steel Combined
Knife and Fork, for picnics, bushmen, 5/6
station-men ; a very superior article. Post free,
4. Same Line, Knife, Fork and Spoon,
Post free 8/-
5. The Famous Golden Beehive Razor,
made by Marples of Sheffield ; a beautiful razor.
White Xylo handle, 6 blade only. Post 12/-
free
Send Stamps, Postal Notes or Cheque to
BADDELEY § CO.,
Hardware
Specialists,
Forest Road, Hurstville, Sydney.
MONEY REFUNDED IF ARTICLE IS NOT
SATISFACTORY.
Messrs. METHUEN’S
NEW BOOKS.
NEW NOVELS.
Tyopa. By Ernest Glanville.
A vivid story, with an attractive heroine,
of adventure amongst wild elephants in the
Addo Bush.
Love AVill Find Out the Way. By
Clara Turnbull. Author of “The
Love Spinner.”
A tale of the French Revolution, full of
romance and adventure and enthralling from
start to end.
Dad. By Albert Payson Terhune.
The story of a fine but dissolute character,
who “made good” after a very bad break.
GENERAL LITERATURE.
A Short History of the Great War.
By A. F. Pollard, M.A., Litt.D., Pro-
fessor of English History in the
University of London. With 19
Maps. Crown Bvo. 10s. 6d. net.
This book provides readers and students
with a clear narrative and' reasonable criticism
of the war from its origin to the conclusion of
peace in 1919. It is a splendid text-book for
schools.
Social Theory. By G. D. H. Cole,
M.A. Crown Bvo. ss. net.
An attempt to set out in a clear and easily
intelligible form the new ideas in relation to
Social Theory which are steadily gaining
adherents.
Auction Piquet. By “Rubicon.*’
F’cap Svo. 4s. net.
A complete and indispensable book.
Methuen 8 Co. Ltd.,
36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2.
“Bleed the Poor Man”
That appears, from the new Tariff impositions, to be the one
idea of the framers of the last Customs Tariff, which is now being
collected.
Every Bushman, every Labor Man, every Business Man must have
a watch. His work demands it.
So the Customs collect 48 per cent, duty on it, and so “bleed
the poor man.”
Yet Australia cannot make watches, and never will until her
population is trebled.
Swiss watches, American watches, are the poor man’s watches.
The‘costly English watch for the rich man has to pay ABOUT ONE-
HALF the above duty only. Why? Fortunately, we have some
thousands of watches which we can still sell at the lower price.
Fairfax $ Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised Steel
15-Jewelled Lever Watch, 63/.
Position Vacant.
SURVEYOR wanted for tin-sluicing com-
pany operating in the Malay States.
Preference given to man having previous
knowledge of that country and to one
having some knowledge of mechanical work.
An indication should be given of the salary
required. Apply by letter, with copies of
references, to “Surveyor,” c/o Gordon &
Gotch, Melbourne. Prompt application
advisable.
Government Notices.
ORDER NO. 4.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Sheepskins)
Regulations.
Sheepskins to be made Available for
Appraisement.
T WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
-L, the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Sheepskins) Regulations
(Commercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the re-
commendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
'-1 require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of dry sheepskins of the
value of £5O or over which has or have not
been appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins for appraisement; and
(6) require every person firm and company at
any time after the date of this notice and
before the 30th day of June, 1920, holding
or having under his or its control any stock
or stocks of dry sheepskins of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available within 14 days from the
date on which such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins is or are first held or had under
his or its control, such stock or stocks of
dry sheepskins for appraisement.
And I declare that this Order does not apply to
sheepskins purchased or held bona _ fide by a fell-
monger for fellmongering in Australia to a quantity
not exceeding normal supplies for his fcllinongering
plant, provided a return of the quantity so held
is furnished to the Central Wool Committee on or
before the 28th day of April, 1920, or within such
fourteen days as aforesaid, as the case may be.
Dated the ninth day of April* 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Wool) Regulations.
Wool to be made Available for
Appraisement.
t WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
1, the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Wool) Regulations (Com-
mercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the recom-
mendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
(а) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of wool of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of
wool for appraisement; and
(б) require every person, firm and company at any
time after the date of this notice and before
the 30th day of June, 1920, holding or hav-
ing under his or its control any stock or
stocks of wool of the value of £5O or over
which has or have not been appraised under
the said Regulations to make available
■ within fourteen days from the date on which
such stock or stocks of wool is or are first
held or had under his or its control, such
stock or stocks of wool for appraisement.
Dated the ninth day of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
HEMSTITCHED
A BOON IN EVERY
HOUSEHOLD.
For finishing Pillow-slips, Sheets
Underwear, etc., CASH'S Hem
stitched FKILLINGS are un-
equalled. You save Time and
Money and get same effect as
finest handwork. Made of best
material and in various widths.
For Marking Linen —Use
CASH’S woven NAMES
«.
SoW by All Best Drapers
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St, Richmond
Vic.
STIIW
m
-4-LJ-Uri
r.
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 13JL Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under
their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.


Write
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and agent
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management. AGENT>
or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY
T. W, GARRETT, Public Trustee. ‘
&
BOORD&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Mb
DTi
J
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
"THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
3s
4s
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than the shillings you are
asked to pay. It is genuinely
welted—all “EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-day.
47/6 pair:.
“EMBASSY” Sh oes are
the Standard.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville.
LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Kissing Time”
Criterion .. “Three Wise Fools”
o oyAl ' Carter the Great
Palace “Tiger Rose”
“Bran Pie”
ft 0 ' Ts _ Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .... “The Bing Boys on Broadway”
** oTA *' “Yes, Uncle”
Kino s “The Little Damozel”
Princess s “On Our Selection”
Tivoli “The Man from Toronto”
The Playhouse The Smart Set Diggers
.Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum ...... Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
“ ELBA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
Palais de Dance (St. Hilda) Dancing
Town Hall (19th, 22nd, 24th) Moiseiwitsch
Town Hall (19th) Evans-Gange Concert
+,
“Three Wise Fools,” staged by the John
D. O’Hara Company at Sydney Criterion
on Saturday night, is a dramatised version of
one of those more than sweetly sentimental
stories which adorn the fiction pages of the
cheaper London dailies. The ingredients
are a pretty girl who is misunderstood by
those whom she loves; a young man who
refuses to believe the evidence of his eyes
because his heart tells him that things are
different; and a number of other characters
whose dulness, not to say idiocy, strings out
the agony for the required period. The
play is neatly constructed, but none of the
figures has the breath of life. Their sole
mission is to wring a tear from the eye of
innocence, and a smile from the habitual
reader of Charles Garvice.
* * * «
The star presents a perfectly-sweet old-
bachelor banker—the traditional type who
beneath a rough exterior possesses a heart
of gold. John D. O’Hara’s Findley is the
sort of financier that any overdraft-seeker
would regard as a diamond-mine. He is an-
other Lightnin’ Bill Jones, only sober and
mellowed by the memory of a romance which
failed to materialise. Dr. Gaunt (Sydney
Stirling) and Judge Trumbell (Fred Esmel-
ton) are also of the irritable though sloppy
type. All three have loved and lost the
same girl in early youth. What more natu-
ral for the purposes of this sort of work than
that they should decide to live together, and,
for all their apparent fierceness, dream
softly, sadly of the might-have-been? In
due course the girl’s offspring comes to live
with them. Sydney Fairchild, as depicted
by Lizette Parkes, js all light and laughter
and dancing winsomeness. Her mother’s
admirers go down before her like bullocks
stricken by the pole-axe, but after much
delicious grief and emotionalism, recover
themselves in time to bless her betrothal to
the most suitable in point of age. Robert
Toms plays the lucky man in convincing
fashion, and John Beck gives a taking
sketch of Benny the Duck, the criminal who
is responsible for all the trouble.
* * *
“Mother Hubbard” belts the Dog for the
“Bran Pie.” at Sydney
Tivoli.
Lee White in a jazz
costume.
last time on
Thursday evening
at the Palace. On
Saturday Marie
Ilka opens the
Sydney season of
“Tiger Rose.”
“Kissing Time”
sentime n-
talises sweetly at
Her Majesty’s, and
all Sydney amuse-
ment-lovers have
either been or are
going or going
again. All the
players are
tuning up for the
gala performance
on Tuesday, June
22. There will be
no charge for
standing o n the
opposite footpath
and watching the
J.C.W. patrons
arrive.
Harry K. Eus-
tace, at the Play-
house, offers Syd-
ney everything but
the smell and claws
of the jungle folk
he has filmed. Any
glutton who in-
sists on these
extras must climb
into the lions’ parlor at Taronga Park to
get them
Pee White makes her winsome appeal to
Sydney every evening in “Bran Pie.” The
Tivoli people are full of enthusiasm.
• er brugghen ventured on a big experiment
3^^ tsyd ? ey^on ® atu , r day, putting the Hippo-
drome to the test for an orchestral concert,
iiiven the gallery was completely satisfied;
and, as the building can house thousands,
music-lovers will make many more journeys
to the fringe of Chinatown. Beethoven’s
-Mass was played, with four vocalists, of
whom Mrs. Verbrugghen best grasped the de-
votional character of the music.
Everybody loves a good band, and the
rince of V) ales s (Royal Marine Light
Infantry) is said to be something special.
J. and N. Tait have arranged the first
(ma tinge) concert for the Town Hall on
and on Tuesday and Thursday
(June *2 and 24) there will be mating?
and evening concerts at the Hippodrome.
** * *
Gloria Swanson continues to put the Babv-
ki 1£U r> on Thomas Meighan’s Admir-
able Crichton in “Male and Female”; and
Geraldine Farrar trails her bridal robes
across the Sydney Crystal Palace screen, and
tries to decide whether the sworn vendetta
over her brother’s dead body or the “love,
cherish and obey” promise at the marriage
al ar is “The Stronger Vow.” Olive Thomas
“fcwr w ei ' Clu T trimmings to her heels in
j ZTl h S a “ d Shadows,” and as Gloria
nW? up with an African ex-
wf i - (ll0t Han- y Eaigh Eustace) who
B .‘‘i B “emory, finds the missing brain-
cell but loses his girl, and in the end of
hacks- a double and draws a winner.
lheSti and tells the story. Jack Bickford is
a Burglar by Proxy” at the Lyceum.
Town^l»ff S ?^°V?^ aring at Melbourne
note of Il St 1 riday - sounded the key-
note of his temperament before he struck
“Mother Hubbard,” at
Sydney Criterion.
Colin Crane as
Blowhard, the pirate.
tho piano. It
was not the un-
affected deport-
ment and de-
meanor of the
man that pro-
claimed the
artist, nor his
almost straight-
backed position
in the chair,
but the fact
that he ignored
a slight dis-
turbance
caused by
people who
were just
. taking
their seats. He
appealed to one
as being the
first eminent
Pianist who
made no pre-
tence of need-
ing his audi-
ence to sit in a
state of breath-
less silence ere
fi i s opening
chord came
from the soul
of the player
and entered
into the piano’s.
Proceeding t o
deal with a
Bach prelude,
he did it as though he was playing
hl ® Pleasure; and so it went on
thiough Beethoven’s Apassionata Sonata
and Sdimnaon’s Carnival and an assort-
ment of small numbers, until he finished the
programme with a fascinating performance
of Brahms variations on a Paganini theme,
and nothing remained but an ovation and
the encores. One looks back for years witli-
Mm-«^f m n ering J a v piani . st so versatile as
Moiseiwitsch, so delicate in his fingering of
the keyboard to which he at one time or
other administers every kind of treatment
bar flogging. He can be brilliantly rapid in
a waltz or wonderfully effective with a noc-
turne \vrit ten for the left hand only. The open-
mg. Melbourne triumph of Moiseiwitsch was
assisted by a sympathetic audience, but it
was not too scholastically musical to refrain
rrom encoring Palmgren’s “Bird Song ”
T™ /oT ai oA n ? con , cer , ts of his series are
dated 19th, 22nd and 24th (a matinee).
Yes, Uncle!” at Melbourne Royal, is
more Remarkable for patter and persiflage
tnan .or substance in music and plot. Its
greatest difficulty is to get its canoodlers mis-
taken for the naughtiest knuts in Paris.
Ceorge Stark, the leading devil, has a sup-
posed passion for furtive females; but after
three hours of artless wickedness he would
pass for a bagman’s guide to Bohemia. Also
his allegedly riotous pal, Bobby Summers
never Qualifies for a supply of headache
wMeis whilst Mrs. Stark, apparently driven
to frailty by violent jealousy, does nothing to
empurple her reputation. In fact, the only
solid emotion is supplied by Stark’s adoring
senonta, attended by her preposterous panto
father. The latter is represented bv George
Willoughby, as a savage hidalgo who bristles
with cutlery and gets language tangled in a
hysterical moustache. His equally primi-
lve daughter (Marie Eaton) seems a mixture
ot Carmen and the refractory ward of a
lunatic asylum. Marie is terribly tumul-
tuous, and in her couple of vocal outbursts
takes her keynote from a factory whistle
* * *
" illiam Greene, as Stark, is presumed to
have appointments for sultry midnights, but
“On Our Bisection ”
Revival at Mel-
bourne Princess's.
Jack Stuart as
Joe Rudd.
he is always the
ass in the assigna-
tions. He warbles
two or three smart
songs; but why
does he do it in
the disarranged
countenance that
pleads for mercy
in a dentist’s
chair? Frith, as
Summers, is
scarcely a com-
edian, and there
are many moments
in his clowning
that invite one to
seek a dog outside.
Field Fisher, as
Uncle Hollybone,
never trespasses
beyond the
straight-jacket o f
his part, but he
has eccentricity
thrust upon him
by his sumptuous
sunburn and rain-
bow hose. Cecil
Bradley, as Mrs.
Stark, only devi-
ates from the
fixed line of color-
, less conduct to have
a purposeless row with her hubby. Grade
Lavers, as Mrs. Mannering, is always
piquant, fresh and winsome. Cyril Ritchards,
» s an amorous young soldier, holds Madge
Elliott in a dancing partnership, wherein
Madge is like a sunbeam in a frowsy world.
Jack Hooker prances on a couple of pickled
feet, and Rita Nugent stands ecstatically on
her toes, but they are only brief incursions
into the entertainment. Hooker, however,
scores as a member of a diverting waiters’
quartette, led in .song by the facetious Frith.
Millie Engler has little to do, and Harry
Wootton. doubling the rGles of a concierge
and studio-foreman, gives the coucicvge a red
nose to prevent the pair appearing twins.
The dressing is modish and expensive, but
this writer prefers the pink and dimpled
background of Grade Lavers and the ditto
of the “Wonderful Widows” to all the garish
exuberance elsewhere. The livid white walls
and showy frocks of the final scene make a
rather discordant composition.
** * *
Fraser Gange and Amy Evans have been
calling musical enthusiasts from warm
firesides to the Melbourne Town Hall
Fraser lias a well-built baritone of fine
range and quality, and renders everything
from a Handel -aria to a bit of operatic
pastry with an artist’s regard for modula-
tion, accent and feeling. In three concerts
he scored in a great variety of items, notably
in two or three songs by Vaughan Williams
and Bruneau’s melodious setting of Catulle
Mendfes’ “L’Heureux Vagabond,” and he
must have grown footsore in taking recalls.
Amy Evans was equally welcome. The apex
of her register seems about eight octaves
above speech-level, but she can reach it in
delicious trills, without slurring a single
note in the journey. She stirred the crowd
to tumult with Maude Valerie White’s “So
We’H Go No More A-roving” and the gaudy
V isse d Arte” from Puccini’s “Tosca,” and
after every song in her programmes the
multitude banged their hands for more.
Cecil Parkes s violin also produced a disturb-
ance, and as accompanist and soloist pianist
Harold Elvins was always impeccable. His
interpretations of two pieces by Cyril Scott
were exceptionally graceful and finished.
Courtneidge Comedy Co., coming on
,L bourne Tivoli from Adelaide with
Ihe Man from Toronto,” easily accounted
for the English success of that rather witty
little play. There are at least four clever
character sketches in the story. The
heroine part is a very finished sketch of
the eternal feminine, her character being
revealed in an interview with a clean-cut
old lawyer whose friendly interest keeps
her out of the Insolvency Court. Margaret
Swallow gives many deft touches of nature
t 0 tae varying moods of this tricky widow
and her pretty appearance satisfies the play’s
requirements. Joseph Graham wins every-
body s liking for the little lawver ere he
drops out of notice. Tully as the hero is
as likeable in his job as he is convincing.
The unvarnished kindliness of the character
seems to come natural to the actor, and his
earnest way of telling his love in a lowered
tone is the most effective way known to
science as yet. Ronald Ward, as the con-
ventional young johnnie in white flannel pants
and University manners, gives humorous
assistance to the complication throughout
but especially in the last act; whilst Marie
Lignold and Rosalind Courtneidge as sisters
of the Toronto man break into the middle
of the comedy. The rigid respectability of
the elder sister is a foil to the unaffected
vivacity of Miss Courtneidge, whose per-
formance has all the charm of youth with
none of the crudities that usually mark its
inexperience on the stage-
* * * *
The Bing Boys remain on Broadway at
Melbourne Majesty’s, and the bunting that
marked the Prince’s visit was added to the
entertainment all last week. Also Maggie
Dickinson's Danse de Nuit Royale and the
item described as a Pageant of Princes
were restored to the bill on Saturday for
business purposes. Maggie was understood
to be thrown in for two nights only, but it
is the boast of Bing Boydom that any part
of the programme may be there to-day and
gone to-morrow without affecting human in-
terest in the story. And it is quite true, for
the simple reason that if Diogenes went
looking for human interest with a lamp he
would not find it. Even a glimpse of
hmmu’a diamond garter leaves the audience
cold. Nobody believes in it: it doesn’t lire
the imagination of the baldest-headed man.
Anyhow, “Bing Boys’’ has already come to
its last nights, and another revue will be
staged on the 20th.
« * * *
“The Little Damozel” goes on at Mel-
bourne King’s, and Marie Ney, in the tran-
sitory part of the other girl, continues to
detect her long-lost Kay Souper by the scent
of his Algerian cigarettes. Also she dream-
ily remembers that she once smoked a por-
tion of one of those tell-tale fags and watched
the butt go floating down the stream of time.
\\ Inch might possibly touch the audience
on its sentimental spot if the lady were
not now the fiancee of a bounding muggins
who is more (o be pitied than guffawed at.
And as the heroine also was engaged to the
same repellent victim it says much for
Lmehe Polini that she can still move the
Cafe Angelique orchestra to tears.
“On Our Selection’’ was under notice to
quit Melbourne Princess’s this week, but the
notice was withdrawn, and the Rudds are
sticking to their present homestead lease
until further orders.
The Smart Set Diggers are still en-
trenched at Melbourne Playhouse. The
igood work of the warriors is giving that
remote edifice a new popularity.
** * *
Marguerite Clark, frisking in “Luck in
Pawn" at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week
gives the Monty Peet a certificate of charac-
ter and throws bouquets at the Uncle thereof.
It is an unusual story and contains more
surprises than a Birthday Honors list. In
The Silk-lined Burglar” Priscilla Dean, as
the accomplice of a secret-service sleuth
combines the nose of a bloodhound with the
tenacity of a toy terrier and makes a star
spy for ever wretched. At Hoyt’s Lyceum
the hit of the week is the gunpowderv Elsie
Jams in “A Regular Girl.” The Majestic’s
injin suit is The Isle of Conquest” wherein
romance ripens in the hearts of Ethel Har-
mon and John Arnold after several holy
illusions have been wrecked by hard times
with previous partners. Norma Talmadge
appearing as Ethel, reveals Fashion’s last
decree for desert-island wear. At the Melba
the Union Theatres, Ltd., will screen next
Monday a new Australian thriller, “The
Breaking of the Drought,” adapted by
arrangement with old friend Bland Holt. An-
£ threatened Union attraction is Ross
p, mi th with his flight pictures, opening at
the Town Hall on July 3.
“Tilly of Bloomsbury” has hit Adelaide
harder, probably, than any other non-musical
play of recent times. Allowing for the exag-
geration of Blunt’s bailiff-butler, the acting
is notable all through. Atholwood now
doubles the curate and the Hindoo. There
was an enthusiastic farewell at the Royal on
the closing night. “Buzz Buzz,” at the
iivoii, opens a long revue season. This is
the piece which in London was heralded by
an intimation that “Mrs. Grundy is dead”;
but in the form in which Adelaide gets it
it is not shocking at all. Ellis Holland and
lora Cromer are popular newcomers, Minnie
Dove wins the old welcome, and Billy Elliott
is funny at great length. Local girls of
special good looks are being selected for the
rest of the season. “Mademoiselle Mimi” at
the King s is still going strong, and its elastic
sides allow a second edition, with new songs.
At the Majestic, Wish Wynne is a host; and
there are performing ponies, a boxing kan-
garoo, and some good acting by Lloyd and
Raymond. Pictures are strenuous: Mitch
Lewis at West’s in “Nine-tenths of the
• Ll i! nel Barrymore at the Wondergraph
in The Copperhead,” and Harold Lockwood
(and the Prince) at the Pav. Good music is
steadily on the increase at all picture-shows.
au thor of a new book on
Men, Manners and Morals in South
America, ’ . the management of picture
palaces’ in Montevideo and Rio shows a
decent consideration for patrdns. When
lights are about to go up the management
rings a warning bell.


COATES’
OriqmalPlymoutSi
DRY GIN
Coates’ Gin never
varies in quality. Not
even during the course
of the great war, when
Britain was so short of
raw materials, did the
distillers of Coates’ Gin
allow the quality to be
lowered. Instead, pro-
duction was limited.
Now, supplies are plentiful and
purchasers may be absolutely
confident of obtaining the pre-
war quality, famous since
1 793.
All good hotels, clubs, etc.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Sole Agents, Sydney.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
Melbourne: H. J. Langdon & Co.
Brisbane: Perkins & Co., Rtd.
West Australia: Seppelt & Son.
IW
Lm\
\
k
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
4(6
EACH
E 4 Records 4^
FROM
46
EACH.
Columbia Records.
12-inch Single-sided PURPLE LABEL Records, 8/6 each.
7222 Alda Alda” (Verdi). (In Italian) with orchestra .. Tom Burke, tenor
SSK -. mSo
seel
7221 I’ll Sing Thee Songs of Araby (Clay), with orchestra Ben Davies
10-inch Single-sided PURPLE LABEL Records, 6/- each.
X237-Myle Charaine (Boulton and Somervell), Key “A” Madame Clara Butt
12-inch Double-sided LIGHT BLUE LABEL Records, 8/6 each.
/St Wood’s orchestra
T Dream Valley (Balke and Quilter) Hubert Elsdell’, tenor
Blddd , Tlie Rpiis 0 f San Mane ,
as? “ A M r. pt> . ! . ra . rt . A ss* *»««•
*1 3 „‘r„“. A :. M . in °. r . ; I^erSa^sT^m.^rdoch
1,1330
1,1323 , j» ar f 2, (4) JModerato, Brio
10-inch Double-sided LIGHT BLUE LABEL Records, 6/- each.
‘Come, Lawses and Lads/ 1
c n) ,(v Onartette. in Two introducipK • >
Folk Song Quartette, b Lov ; a j>retty G , p , „ Ko of Summer.”
London String Quartette
1)1408 { “Simon the Cellarer,’ 1
( Mlnuetto (Melandre)
Miss Daisy Kennedy, violin
D 1409 |p" "hi;; a (Prayer), (Schuhert)’ *;.V;;.V:.V.V.V;:. Miss Daisy Kennedy, violin
. .. ... x. luu un MacMillen, violin
mam Minuet (Beethoven) Francis MacMillen, violin
11 ( Souvenir (I)rdla)
( Take a Pair of HP-rWlurKy. • (OJJert * Sullivan) John Coates tenor
l it was a Lover and liiw Laws /
1)1411
12-inch DARK BLUE LABEL Records, 6/6 each.
755
5 The Lute Player (Watson and joSam Sor
Tlie Willow (Boulton and Goring i nomas) .
ime ” v /ii„nri,.n Norman Allin, bass
1 Honor and Arms, from Samson (Handel) Norman Allin bass
(She Alone Charmeth My Sadness (Gounod) JNOrmanAiuu,
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SYDNEY N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place. '
mSiIENE. VIC., and TASMANIA. Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty .
T.td. 173 William Street, Melbourne.
UItISBANE, Q. —King and King, Xtd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
~inT H W A— H. It. Firth, Royal Arcade.
.Uirivo vy Arthur H Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
wrArefTON N.Z.— Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CH r/sTCHUUCH,' N.Z.— Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltll j 243 High street *
DUNEDIN, N.Z.— Webley Sons & Gof ton, Lt<L
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
| obtained.
■
■
C'.-A.v funotT frf «fd.
• -ftLOCK fl°36
Cast-steel Kockcrusher Frame and Manganese Steel Jaw Faces.
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London,
As Manufacturers of
Steel Castings
To Meet Standard Specifications.
Soft, Medium and Hard Carbon
Cast Steel, Manganese & Chrome
Cast Steels.
Rockcrushers
COMPLETE.
All Cast Steel Frames and Parts
and
Fitted witH Manganese Steel Jaws.
ROCK-CRUSHING AND ROAD-MAKING PLANTS.
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR
THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT
PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
TELEPHONE:
Central - 5993.
Hawthorn 1675.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.
CABLE &


Cocoanut Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonfuls make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenlv,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not,
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, as recommended above.
Use Fing'ers to Lift Off Corns!
V
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wouderful! *
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns—soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes. —
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is named
Frozol-Ice. and is a
substance of ether dis-
covered by a scholarly
chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
. a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice, cost-
mg but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to the heart
of any tender, pain-throbbing corn or
£fhl°* US - Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn, “lock
®™ ck barr e l - ’ loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
hrozol-Ice, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous.
Only fancy! No pain! No soreness!
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice, nor
afterwards. Make a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
If Favorite Foods
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods you like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or soda water after
every meal. Instead just make a practice of
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after eating.
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not
a laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diges-
tion. It can be obtained at any well-stocked
chemist s shop (in powder or compressed tab-
lets form). Be sure to get Salix Magnesia. Do
not use other forms of magnesia for this
purpose.
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
POVERTY
POINT
“0.K.”: Other members of the Court-
neidge Comedy Co. have visited this country
m bygone years, but the one old Australian
actor in the recently-imported crowd is
Joseph Graham. The spare, spry young
man in question got his first stage experi-
ence under Hoskins in Sydney 40 years ago.
lie had been a civil-service clerk in London
when his dreams of a romantic theatrical
life, varied by the picking up of gold nug-
gets in the street, drove him to the new
country. Besides, Joe had a dread of being
a raw beginner in his own land, where
he had not even belonged to an amateur
mumming association. In Australia he
found Bill Hoskins and got a billet, and
“MOTHER HUBBARD," AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Jack Cannot singing “How I won
the D.C.M."
remained sufficiently long in the Southern
sunshine—nine years—to feel grossly in-
sulted by the English climate when he re-
turned to it. Joe Graham’s stories of Hos-
kins have probably improved with age. He
is full of them. He remembers yarns that
were told of the self-respecting veteran in
his managerial days—bow he was said to
have been always a great artist even when
he was a young English actor earning not
more than £3 a week. Hoskins was the
Thrifty Bill of the co., not with money to
burn, but with bank notes to keep him warm.
When Graham was learning his business
f r°m the old battler Hefiry Irving was king
of the profession, and Hoskins was fond of
protesting that he had been Irving’s teacher
and the founder of his fortunes. This
sounded a bit over the odds, and in long
after-years Graham was able to ask S’Henry
how much truth there had been in Hoskins’s
claim. It was quite true, said the first
actor to get a handle put to his name. He
didn t know how much good he had obtained
from his lessons in elocution, but Hoskins
was the man who had persuaded Mrs. Brod-
nbb (Irving’s mother) to consent to her
son s joining the play-actors. She had argued
that Henry was already earning £80 a year
in a city office, with the prospect of an
annual rise. Hoskins, in his finest attitude
and most impressive tones, had told the
anxious mother that her son’s present
annual salary would be his nightly fee in
the not-distant future, and the old lady
was convinced. Twenty years later the
Hoskins prediction was fulfilled.
“Dale”: There will be allusions to the
Irinee introduced into “Kissing Time” for
the gala performance, but no risks are taken
these, matters. All the jests thrown into
* The Bing Boys” in Melbourne were sub-
mitted for inspection in advance. There
were no scratchings.
. “Orb’ : Much of Dan Barry's success was
due to the person-
ality and expertness
of Bert Odgers,
for many years his
advance agent. A
blaze of diamonds,
and accompanied by
a showy St. Ber-
nard, Odgers made
a deep impression
on the Backblock.s.
Once he arrived at
Cobar (N.S.W.) to
find three rival
agents ahead of
him. OdgerSithought
hard, then pur-
chased a hogshead
of beer and a dozen
pannikins, and that
afternoon he acted
as host just outside
the big mine. As
the miners came off
shift in hundreds
they were con-
fronted with a tem-
porary bar, bearing
a huge placard—
“ Dan Barry invites
the Cobar boys to
have one with him.
He’s coming here
“On Our Selection ”
Revival at Mel-
bourne Princess's.
Florence Marshall
as Mum.
next Saturday.” That did it!
“Tano”: Archie Emmett Adams, the
Sydney-born composer who has come home
on a business trip, can now grin derisively
at the old tow’n. Adams left Australia
in 1911 after peddling his musical com-
positions about this continent to little
or no purpose. He eventually hit ’em hard
in England with “God Send You Back to
Me, ’ a popular ballad which is said to have
brought him in over £lO,OOO within a year
of its publication. Adams told the writer
that it took him just one hour to write the
music of it. His “Scarlet Rhapsody,” a
much more worthy work, is not nearly so
remunerative. “The Bells of St. Mary’s” is
nis biggest success. Ascherbergs, the pub-
lishers, recently advertised it on one full-
page of London Daily Mail at a cost of
£BOO for one issue. Their enterprise brought
its own reward, for 150,000 copies were sold
during the ensuing fortnight. It has now
hit America with considerable force. Adams
has one successful musical comedy playing
in London—“ Pretty Peggy,” a bright show
with Australian Lorna and Toots Pounds in
the cast. His songs have been translated
into many European languages, including
Swedish and Dutch. He wants, while in
Australia, to write an all-Australian musical
show, and is casting about for a librettist.
“Futsac”: “Simon’s” method of doing a
/T, gg o r^°)]L? f his deferred pay or gratuity
(B. d/b/20) by starting him in the taxi
business isn’t half as easy as selling him
a picture-show. Most people have the idea
that a movie-theatre is a gold-mine. Perhaps
9 is but it can be salted, too. Here’s a
case. A rogue wanted to get rid of a show
out on the fringe of a metropolitan area.
He arranged that the Digger should come
for an entire week and investigate the busi-
ness. He then flooded the district with free
tickets for the Monday and Thursday nights
and packed out. To make the thing look
genuine he tossed about £4O of his own
money into the box-office. On the Tuesday
night he ran a big feature that would get
money anywhere. On Wednesday night he
had a benefit for a local football club, and
though the show filled the proprietor drew
only 25 per cent, of the gross. Realising
that the Digger perhaps understood enough
about the picture business to know that Fri-
day night is the worst in the week, (he
.showman didn’t open then; and Saturday
naturally looked after itself. The prospect
had been present every night of the week and
believed the showman’s eloquence. “There
y’are. Five nights a week. Y’ve seen
the business for yehself. I’U take £5OO and
10 quid a week for me lease.” The Digger
bought, and is now learning that a subur-
ban population of 3000 will only stand a
show twice a week at most; and that isn't
enough to carry a £5OO-down-and-10-quid a
week proposition. The only sure way of
finding out the actual business a show is
doing is to get at its amusement-tax returns.
|or a couple of guineas a solicitor can
hnd means of doing that.
“Stargazer”: The screen’s influence on the
acting stage is a subject of sad and sore
reflection for many pros, of both genders.
No actress becomes the idol of the shopgirl
now, as Tittel Brune did when she flaunted
her not-easily-discernible charms and her
moderate ability in Melbourne, and was
literally worshipped by an almost entirely
feminine gallery. Nor does any man of the
squeaking boards secure the ardent young
affections of the matinee girl as, say, Charley
By ley did. And it is doubtful if this sin-
cere devotion to articulate artists will ever
be restored. It all goes to the movie
idol nowadays. Mary Bickford, Theda Bara,
Olga Petrova and several other camera
queens are worshipped to day, and half a
dozen picture men are idolised by their
various feminine followings with a fervor
utterly denied to the legitimate pro. It is
\oi_\ sad, but the pictures can be made to
emphasise physical strong points and mini-
mise weak ones, so the picture fan is never
disillusioned.
"K.K.”: The gala night at Her Majesty’s
in Melbourne might easily have been spoiled
by an unrehearsed effect. In the gallery a
devoted loyalist had a seat from which she
could .see the royal boots. Not satisfied
vith this privilege, she leaned so fur out
that she lost her balance, uttered a shrill
ciy of terror, and was grabbed and hauled
ignominiously into her seat in a half-fainting
condition. The gallery attendant hastened
to. the spot to ascertain what damage was
being done, and had the situation explained
to him. He craned over, and took the
bearings. ‘Oh, there was no danger,” said
he. “She couldn’t have hit him from here.”
Fax : Blanche Massey, who plays
Martha in “The Man from Toronto,” got
liei good looks from a mother who was one
of the very first beauty actresses to have
‘her carte-de-visite in every street and her
lace all over the shop.” Rose Massey, as “A
basket of mischief,” her pretty head pop-
ping out of a bed of flowers, was a popular
subject for sale in the ’seventies. A few years
later, when she was leading lady in 11. J.
Montague’s company at the Globe, she sued
Montague (the most admired stage lover of
the time) for breach of promise. The case
was the talk of the town ; it was remarked
that Montague, the romantic hero, had
rarely written to the lady without speaking
of food, even going so far as to praise the
gravy. He would say, “Dearest, am just
going to sit down to a roast goose, so must
hastily conclude,” etc.
Elwyn Harvey, sister-in-law of George
Marlow, who did capital work in Wilkie’s
fehakspearean season at Sydney Adelphi, is
now in America, where she is supporting
Tyrone Power.
“Stargazer”: It is interesting to trace how
African play gives rise to another.
.ngev Bose would never have been written
it there had not been a girl in “Within the
Daw who attained to remarkable popu-
larity by emitting at odd times sudden, un-
expected and disconcerting oaths. This
trick provoked more laughter than could
ever have been attained by glittering showers
of real wit. The idea» of exploiting that
success then occurred to ingenious Mr. Wil-
lard Mack. He would produce a real heroine
who would bring off the same stunt. It was
a . c i> -?V S “ Ti S' er Rose,” a simple flower
ot the wilderness, scores by reason of the
same capacity for ripping out an oath when
a naughty swear is the last thing to be
expected from her sweet lips, and although
the last act, like the title, should have had
a deadly effect on the fortunes of the play
Bose Bocian’s pretty turn of profanity
saved it from an untimely end, to be a
source of joy to lovers of “high” art in
far-away Australia.
George L. . Nathan, American dramatic
critic, says acidly that the great majority of
actors are numskulls, just as surely as the
great majority of fat men perspire. “Intelli-
gence? Hardly. The eight most effective
actors on our American stage graduated to
that stage from the respective professions
of shoe-clerk, valet, dog-trainer, drygoods
salesman, circus acrobatic clown, clothing-
store sidewalk puller-in, racetrack tout and
haberdasher’s clerk.” But he names no
names.
Minnie Everett, who is to produce the Gil-
bert and Sullivan operas when they are
revived in August, is alleged to know the
entire books by heart.
“N. 8.”: Leonard Nelson probably holds
“Bran Pie," at Sydney
Tivoli.
George Gee an a comic
Hamlet.
the Australian long-
distance record. For
upwards of 10 years
he has rotated on
the Fuller circuit,
with only one
break, w h e n he
whizzed off to China
and thereaway for
a season. All his
stuff is of native
origin, too, and I
am pleased to say
that he pays good
money for it. lie
is unusual in other
respects, for he em-
ploys no make-up—
just walks on in his
every-day stre e t
clothes. A dozen
years ago he went
to London, intend-
ing to show ’em
what an Australian
could do. The time
was not ripe, how-
ever, so he streaked
back home, and has
been in steady work
here ever since. Nel-
son is a much-im-
proved performer
now. He first broke
out in bellowdrama,
being a minor bush-
ranger in Dampier’s “Robbery Under Arms”
gang.
“John E.”: Film-making ns an Australian
industry promises well. The frantically-
Australinn firm of Carroll’s has given a
boost to native girl-actors by importing an
Amurkan movie leading-lady to play Aus-
tralian roles written for her by the firm’s
just-imported dyed-in-the-wool Amurkan
scenario-writer, Bess Meredyth. There are
others, including a film editor. One of these
days the Australian will get annoyed enough
to cut out of his visiting list the theatre
that might and doesn’t give Australia a lift.
“Gin Fizz”: It is to be hoped that Lee
White will give further proof of her versa-
tility during her Tivoli tou*. She is more
than a prattler of songs at the piano: she
won her early London successes as a ballad
singer, and followed with character stuff
She was the first to sing “Where Did That
One Go To, ’Erbert?” and to bring Bairns-
father’s Old Bill to life as a stage character.
Captain Bruce Bairnsfather got the inspira-
tion for his play out of her impersonation
of the Old Walrus.
“Peg-Leg”: “The Deacon” (B. 10/6/’2O)
is right in declaring Allen Doone American-
born ; but he thinks so much of Australia
that he’s not likely to stray further than
b Africa again. Ilis mother, Mrs. White
arrived in Sydney last month, and is now
waiting for her boy to bring back the
Ivoh-i-noors, and they will settle in Australia
for good.
C. J. De Garis, of Mildura, has written
Ins name so large on the Sun-Raysed band-
waggon that, before he goes up in a balloon
or does a lion-taming act with a troupe of
novelists, he feels obliged to explain that “it
has nothing Vhatever to do with the dried-
fi uits industry.’’ The usual warning comes
with the intimation that his mysterious musi-
cal comedy, entitled “F.F.F” (music by
Reg. A. Stoneham), has been “promised pro-
duction by one of the leading theatrical
firms.’ Also, a firm of Australian music-
publishers has “given an opening order for
150,000 copies of the 16 songs.” If De
Garis can show competent Australian writers
and musicians how to get their work past
Australian managers and before Australian
audiences, Literature will take him to her
bosom and Music will weep on his shoulder.
“Norbell”: The publicity man persists in
calling Austin Milroy, now juveniling at the
Opera House, Sydney,' “the new English
actor. Milroy is an Australian, hailing
from Melbourne; he was playing in Marlow-
urama in Brisbane over four years ago, and
has been mumming hard in Australia ever
since. He worked his passage to England
on a windjammer 20 years ago, his ship
being lost with all hands on the return
voyage. He first used greasepaint in panto-
mime, and toured England, Scotland and Ire-
land m it. Then he played juvenile in “A
Woman of Pleasure” at the Kennington
.-theatre, London. Next he was D’Artagnan
m The Three Musketeers” at the Lyceum.
11 there for two years, appearing
in Nell Gwynne,” with Matilda Brune as
the orange girl. Also he was in “Ivanhoe”
and Prisoner of Zenda,” Allan Wilkie and
£ rank Harvey being in the same co. Later
he was Jim Carson in “The White Man,”
known here as “The Squaw Man,” at the
New Princess’s, Shaftesbury-avenue. Then
* c ' ven t to South Africa, and was with the
African Theatres Trust for 12 months,
h mally he wandered back to his native land
n^<m? ine i?r J C L W > the German spy
in Ihe Man Who Stayed At Home.”
THE DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The band goes of a sudden mad:
The leader wags with hands immense,
A tin-pot clashes, and a lad
Now runs a stick along a fence.
They beat a tub
With boot and club,
They blow a horn, and stick a pig.
The music shuffles in a jig.
Then out with tranced eyes and dumb
The couples come,
i'hey wriggle bn the waxen floor.
They twist, and turn and waggle more ;
And then with maniacal jolt
The beggars bolt.
A wild cock crows,
And rows on rows
The dancers pass with mincing feet,
All mesmerised, demure, discreet,
And music melts upon the night
in passive sweetness and delight.
’Tis gone! A wretch beyond reproof
Has torn the iron off the roof,
And thumps it with a heavy maul,
And sudden madness catches all.
They waddle round like drunken geese.
And cease,
And drift again, the girl at rest,
A-slumber on her partner’s breast.
A blinding clash, a maddening yell,
The clamor of inverted hell.
The leader springs ten feet. lie tires,
He trembles, falters and expires.
The trotters, as if now awake
To sense of shame, all blush and quake,
And creep to shelter one by one.
The dance is done!
VICTORIA.
S.S.


ft!
ďa
da
Exclusive Styles and Patterns,
Ladies’ and Gents.’ Coats.
From the Leading English Makers,
BURBERRY, AQUABCUTUM, DEXTER.
ALSO
Special Line Black Dress Overcoats,
£6/6/-
Dress Gloves, Ties and Waistcoats.
JMiarD &(D,
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BUTTERLAC
is a SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of all Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
BUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM,
INSOMNIA, KIDNEY and LIVER
HEADACHES, DERANGEMENTS
and All Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults, Children and Infants.
Butterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Dane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, LTD., Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO.,
Adelaide.
d
ABBEY
SHOES!
Careful designing and high-grade materials
have produced in Abbey Shoes footwear of
unusual merit, bines of exclusive charac-
ter give the maximum of smartness, with-
out losing a point of comfort.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal. in a smart “made-to-order” style.
PRICE . 67/6
In Tan Willow Calf . . 60/-
Stocked in half-sizes; and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
daďa
PROSPECTUS
OF
New South Wales Government Loan of £2,000,000.
Rate of Interest, 5 2 per cent, per annum.
PRICE OF ISSUE: PAR
Interest Payable, Ist June and Ist December.
First Payment of Interest, Ist December, 1920.
Principal Repayable at Par, in Sydney, Ist June, 1925.
List of Applications Closes Wednesday, 30th June, 1920.
The Government of New South Wales offers for subscription a loan of £2,000,000, bearing interest at the rate of per
cent per annum and having a currency of 5 years from Ist June, I 920, a guarantee being given that the interest will be free of both
New South Wales and Federal Income Taxes.
The loan is being raised under the authority of the Act of Parliament No. 27 of 1919, .and is for the purpose of providing
funds to enable the Government to make advances, approximating to £2,000,000, to necessitous farmers who are suffering from
the effects of the prevailing disastrous drought, and also for providing funds for the completion of the wheat-silos scheme.
Applications for the loan should be addressed to the Colonial Treasurer, The Treasury, Sydney.
The principal, which must be lodged in full with the application, will be accepted free of exchange, and the loan may be
subscribed for either in the form of Funded Stock or Debentures, at the option of the subscriber.
Subscribers for Funded Stock may have the interest on their Stock i emitted to their Bank accounts in the country or outside
the State free of exchange, but the interest on the Debentures will be payable in Sydney.
Forms of application for the Stock or Debentures may be obtained from the Registrar of Stock, The Treasury, Sydney;
from the Branches of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales throughout the State, and also at all Branches in the State
of the Bank of New South Wales and the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited.
Applications fpr the Loan may be forwarded through members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
Interest on the Stock will accrue from the date of purchase, but, as a coupon for a full six months’ interest will be attached
to the Debentures, accrued interest, at per cent, per annum, from Ist June to date of purchase, must be added to any applications
for Debentures lodged after that date.
Stock may be purchased in multiples of £lO and Debentures in multiples of £lOO.
Purchase money lodged prior to Ist June, 1920, will be held on deposit at per cent, per annum up to that date.
The Treasury, Sydney, JOHN T. LANG,
Bth May, 1920. Colonial Treasurer.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and OOOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlillTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNft?
LEWIS &WTIITTY MAKERS
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOK INFLUENZA, OVERWORK. WEAK STOMACH, ANA3MIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating:.
14 Nil
SJSTERE
(Registered.)
A.B
A.B
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 334-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO.. LTD., Clarence Street. Sydney. Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHEBN, Brisbane Street. Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
ON TOP WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
* * * *
Within the memory of the oldest punter
the G. N. Hurdle never looked so open a question a
fortnight before the day as it does this year. Two
or three of the upper-class hurdlers have dropped out
of reasonable consideration since weights were issued,
but new candidates have come along, and the possi-
bility has presented itself of Two Blues being the
best of good things. If his Tasmanian win over the
sticks is to be taken seriously— i.e., if he can clear
the Flemington hurdles as easily as the old stagers
at the game —the horse that ran third in last Mel-
bourne Cup must be mighty hard to beat with lOst.
91b. up, which is no more than Will Comfort carried
to victory last year, or that Beltane is asked to take
upon himself this year. Two Blues has not been a
brilliant actor in the legitimate turf drama, but
he has at least earned a reputation for staying in
better company than his rivals ever shone in. Will
Comfort, the top-weight this year, is no boob on
the flat. He beat more than beat him in a mile
race at Flemington lately, but none of the recognised
hurdle-racers in the list of National entries caught
the eye like Two Blues, British Arch and Court
Jester, and the last-named of these would look some-
what crushed bv a welter-weight, even if he e
saddled up for it. Of the three Two Blues is a cer-
tain runner, seemingly. The book makes him out io
be in a higher class than, say Mneon, Leddington,
Mountwood, Beltane, Fastolf, Oopina and a dozen
others that could only be expected to live with him
because they made a lighter job of the hurdles.
Flemington touts were waiting last week for Two
Blues, and when they have seen him perform with
four legs off the ground the market will begin to
talk.
i It is rather questionable encouragement
that breeders get to mate their mares with imported
Bernard. Two of Bernard’s sons were winners at the
A r .R.C. meeting recently, and one of them, Sinbad
the Sailor, ran into second place in the last race of
the meeting, All the same, Sinbad ranks among
the in-and-out performers who are never quite as
good as they look. He is by Bernard out of Simmer-
belle. As for Whiz Bang, offspring of Bernard and
Simmerdalc, he has been a most untrustworthy three-
year-old, showing flashes of brilliancy quite incom-
patible with his average form. Whiz Bang’s second
to Gold Tie in the Futurity Stakes, with Chrysolaus
and other good horses in his rear, was even better
than his performance the other Monday, when he
sprinted too fast for Battleplane, who was giving
him only 91b. But between those two races the
handsome colt ran like a rotter.
* * * *
The new Liberty League in Adelaide has
had a Town Hall meeting to press for the re-intro-
duction of the bookmaker, who was legally abolished
about 30 years ago, in the interests of the totalisa-
tor. Kirwan, of Queensland, was the principal
speaker, and of course had an easy job in pointing
to the inconsistency of things. That morning’s
paper had told in detail of the Prince’s betting and
winning in Melbourne, and also of heavy fines in
the local-police court for precisely similar actions
in Adelaide. Also, while this illegal betting was
going on at Victoria Park thousands of pounds had
been wagered—legally, because by totalisator —a few
yards away. But the remedy for that inconsistency
is in extending the tote to the Flat, which Onka-
paringa Racing Glub has already done. Edwards,
of S.A. Assembly and the City Council, promised to
press on this session with his pet Bill for licensing
bookmakers; but to operate only on the racecourse
—a provision which never could or would be en-
forced, judging by experience.
Racing is one of the strong points of new
S.A. Governor Weigall. He was just too late for
the Cup and Birthday meetings in Adelaide, but
rushed to a meeting at the Port. His wife, too, is
interested; she is the daughter of Blundell Maple,
a famous English owner in his time. His Ex. has
not decided yet whether he will keep a racing stable
while in Australia; but evidently he has thought
the matter over, for he promptly told an inquisitive
interviewer that, if he does, it will be with native
and not imported stock.
The three-day meeting of the Adelaide
Racing Club, its most important fixture of the year,
began dry and finished wet, like that of the S.A.
Jockey Club just before. In the week between City
Handicap and Birthday Cup fell the finest general
rains the State has had for months—some say for
years; so everybody was content to roll up for the
finish with wet feet, and a record amount of over
£68,000 went through the tote. Though Clever
Jim, making a fair show at w.f.a., and in the Cup
with 7st. 51b., had been quietly fancied, clever was
not what the public called itself when the numbers
went up. It had backed five horses down to 10 to
one or less, Daarewin, Bobaris, AVee Gun (winner
of the Adelaide Cup), Fruit Bat and Alacrity; and
not one of them was in the first three. (This was
much as in the other Cup.) Young Selby of Mel-
bourne had the mount on the winner, almost I v
chance. Since the new capitalist Vincent Zed bought
all contractor Timms’s big string of racehorses in one
line, just for the fun of the thing, he has not had
much luck; but here he scored with Clever Jim,
and his Ivingbier was third. The favorite, Daarewin,
did much better in the soft going of the final day,
and won the Alderman Cup.
* # * *
The position of judge may soon follow
the moa to oblivion in the Ricketty Isles. At the
just-held annual meeting of the Canterbury (M.L.)
Jockey Club it was suggested that instantaneous
photographs be taken of the finishes. The only objec-
tion raised was that the public would have to be
kept waiting an extra quarter of an hour.
Beltane’s exhibition at Moonee Valley on
Saturday was impressive. Carrying list. 91b. in
the Windarra Hurdles and starting favorite, he beat
a fair field in handsome fashion and cut out the
two miles in the fast time of 3min. 474 sec. After
this performance he became as good a favorite as
anything for the big event at Flemington. Aintree,
a strong fancy for the National Steeplechase, like-
wise justified his position in the market by defeating
lolaus and other well-performed leppers in the
Travancore Steeplechase. Favorite at threes and
capitally ridden by Boyd, the Refrain—Trimmer
gelding always seemed to have the race in his keep-
ing, and led Berribee and Mountain God to the finish,
lolaus (solidly backed at 7 to 2) failing to get a
place. Pastoralist W. Falkiner is part-proprietor
of Aintree, and the well-bred Mabu, by Positano —
Fides, of which he owns every hoof, credited him
' with the Jumpers’ Flat, in which Mabu was co-
favorite with Mrieon and Oopina, the latter pair of
fancied candidates for the National failing to get into
the money. But there are three miles of battens to
jump at Flemington, and that is a different job
from running 15 furlongs on the flat at Moonee
Valley.
* * * *
With Johnston substituted for Caples at
five-eighth and Frank Burge, the Glebe crack, in-
cluded among the forwards, N. S. Wales made a
vastly different showing against the Northern Union
footballers from Sydney’s display on the previous
Saturday. In fact, the change was startling. The
home team got going from the start, beat the burly
visitors in every department of football, had the
game won' in the first half and ran out the winners
by 42 points to six—one of the most remarkable
victories in the history of the game. Not once did
the Englishmen get the leather over the line. Their
six points were penalty goals from Gronow’s sure
boot. On the other hand Burge scored 24 points
on his own account —two tries and nine goals. He
was the best man on the ground, and Pearce was as
good as the next. Little McGowan’s work was
always smart and clever. Johnston justified his
inclusion and so did Latta, but Horder showed little
of the brilliance he exhibited in the first match;
he was too well watched for that. England’s best
representatives were Rogers and Gronow. The visitors
were heavily penalised by Referee T. McMahon and
complain that he was unnecessarily strict. After
a try awarded to McGowan —a very doubtful try
the whole team looked, and some of it voiced its
astonishment and Gallagher and Stockwell were
ordered off the field. Thomas, the full-back, was like-
wise sent to the pavilion for punching an opponent,
and Townsend (N.S.W.) retired for scragging; so
in the last 35
minutes the Wood-
bines w r ere tw r o men
to the bad, besides
their great disad-
vantage in points.
And they didn’t get
a fair deal from a
section of the
crowd. But it was
a rough and strenu-
ous game, and a lot
of willing work
went on in the
scrums, and per-
haps the referee is
justified in his con-
tention that it might
liave degenerated into
real old Woolloomooloo
footbrawl but for the
drastic action he took.
The crowd numbered
60,000.
TOM McMAHON,
the Sydney referee.
Before the big football match in Sydney on
Saturday Sydney Uni. beat Brisbane by 26 points
to 16. The Bananaland students, a nuggety lot,
died hard, but they hadn’t quite the speed and sys-
tem of the southerners.
One of the most stupid objections yet
voiced to Rugby League as a game for amateurs
appeared last week in the leader-page of Sydney
Telegraph. The point made was that it was “too
fast” for schoolboys, or for any class of players but
pros, in hard training. Soccer, as played by the
crack English teams, is as fast as any game in the
world; which is why, of course, it draws record
crowds all over the country, from Sheffield to the
Crystal Palace. And, in addition to being the most
popular professional g3me, it is played by most of
the big public schools, while a full blue is given
for it at Oxford and Cambridge.
* * * *
In the seventh round of Sydney Rugby
Union football, Easts, who drew' with ’Varsity in
the round before last, unexpectedly went down to
Norths by 7 points. The general play was poor,
though Cooney did well for the winners. Flook
worked hard for the losers. The even Manly team
STEVENS, of North
Melb., one of the lead-
ing goal-kickers in the
Association. Morgan,
of Footseray, kicked
the greatest number
of goals last season,
Stevensrunning second.
beat Glebe-Balmain by as-,,. The latter mixed
th.tTgs when they saw how the game was going,
but to no purpose. Mayne, for G.-8., made use of
what opportunities he got, and Watson led bis
forwards time and agiain against the all-too-solid
defence. Buchanan was everywhere as usual.
Chambers, Mingay and Douglas, together with speedy
James, on the wing, were the pick of Manly. The
’Varsity backs had too much pace for Wests’ quarter-
line. Lawton alone notched 15 of the 51 points
scored 1 y Uni to the suburbanites’ 15. The latter
made a stand in the second-half, but it resembled
the fabled housemaid’s baby. Farquhar, McGurran
and Wallace were the pick of the Uni. players, and
VVogan, Champion and Jackson held their end up
for Wests. Mosman only just managed to beat New-
town by 19-12: the condition of their forwards saved
them. Newtowns actually led at half-time. Freeman
and McLelland did great work for the losers.
An attendance of 31,000 was registered at
the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Saturday, the
offertory amounting to £740. The attraction was
the League football match between the unconquered
Richmond and Melbourne, second on the premiership
list with Fitzroy, and there is a consensus of opinion
that the game was worth the money, no faster or
harder struggle having been seen this season. As
in previous matches, Richmond proved superior on
the back and forward lines, and these advantages
enabled it to bring home the bacon by 20 points—
-88 to 68. But the beaten side retains its place in
the honor-list, for Fitzroy was donkey-licked by the
improving Essendon —92 to 49. Essendon now looks
like getting into the final round. South inflicted a
33-point beating on Saints (still racked by internal
dissension), and Carlton gave Geelong its sixth suc-
cessive defeat; albeit, there were only nine points
between them at the close. The boys from Corio
Bay have pluck but little luck.
East week’s match between Kid Lewis and
Johnnie Basham (won by the former in the ninth
round) had been looked forward to in London ever
since the ex-welter champion beat Eddie Shevlin on
points last year. Basham, who, like Driscoll and
Jimmy Wilde, is a Welshman, was in his prime as
fine a performer as ever wore a Lonsdale belt. But
he is ageing, and Lewis—-who arrived in Australia
as a feather, left as a lightweight, and is now a
welter—is still young and improving. The clever
albino is anxious for a match with Carpentier. There
is no doubt it would draw, and it is a tribute to
the Londoner that Befechamps has so far declined to
listen to the idea.
* * * *
Boxing form is as baffling as any in the
world of sport. Joe Symonds recently knocked
Digger Evans endways, and would have the best of
chances of doing it again every time they met.
Evans gave Jackie Green a good hiding. On Satur-
day night Symonds met Green, at Sydney Stadium,
and, though the referee gave it a draw, most of
those present, including, by the look of things,
Symonds himself, thought Green won. The English-
man was within an ace of taking the knock in the
second round. Green outboxed him all through,
though not at any time by a wide margin. Symonds,
who is a much stronger lad than Green, led and
forced a lot, and both fouled with energy at times.
Barry was in his fellow-countryman’s corner, and
Felton adorned the Green stable.
* * * *
An American has only once won the
amateur golf championship of Britain (W. J. Travis
did the trick at Sandwich, in 1904), but R. A.
Gardner nearly brought it off again last week. The
Oxonian, C. J. H. Tolley, was square with him at
the 36th hole and just downed him at the next.
Michael Scott, who played around Melbourne for
many years, was licked by Gardner in the semi-final.
* * * *
C. R. Boyce had bad luck in thq final of
the N. S. Wales amateur golf championship. He
met Eric Apperly at the top of his form, and was
beaten by the monstrous total of 10 up and eight
to play. Like the score in the big football match
on the same day, it suggests that the defeated went
to pieces. However, Boyce is no more that sort of
sportsman than the Englishmen. He stuck doggedly
to the enemy, but when he equalled Bogey, Apperly
beat him; and when he defeated the Colonel Ap-
perly did likewise, only more so. It is doubtful if,
on the day, there is an amateur in the world who
could have taken the winner’s number down.
S.A. Cricket Assoc, has reverted to the
English idea that a retired player makes the best
ground-keeper. When, long ago, it imported Jesse
Hide, from Sussex, as coach, he also looked after the
Adelaide Oval, then in its infancy; when he went
Checkett reigned for 30 years, and made a first-
class ground of it, without being anything of a
cricketer himself. When he retired, Dunn of M.L.
was imported, and now the job goes to Albert
Wright, whose slow bowling found him a place in
the State XI for years. He was Checkett’s assist-
ant for years.
* * * *
Gerald Patterson is getting into form for
the Wimbledon championships. He was a member
of the Australasian quartette playing against Cam-
bridge the other day and his service had lost none of
its old terror. It he doesn’t win the World’s Cham-
pionship Singles, he is likely to capture the DoAdes
and Mixed Doubles. In the Doubles he will probably
be partnered with Kingseote, and his accomplice in
the Mixed Doubles is no less a celebrity than Mile.
Lenglen, the French damsel who won the Ladies’
Championship at Wimbledon in a sensational manner
last year.
“Yarrum”: “Jim Carew’s” cricket yarn
(B. 27/5/’2O) reminded me of a match I took part
in at Bateman’s Bay (N.S.W.) We (Milton) wanted
40 to win on the second innings, and were only able
to score off the bowler at one end. Donnelly, at
the other end, was deadly and we had no hope
against him. At last we wanted only 10 runs to
win with five wickets to fall. Then Donnelly (cap-
tain) started bowling from both ends. We protested,
but he said there was nothing in the rules to forbid
it. We hadn’t the rules about us. “Anyhow,” said
he, “I don’t suppose you came all the way here for
a roxuV’ As the Baysiders were all hefty timber
men our skipper—a man of peace—let it go at
that. We lost by seven runs, and the cheering of
the sleeper-getters might have been heard at Moruya.
# * * *
The winning crew (Adelaide) in the recent
intcr-University rowing contests are nil very young
oarsmen. Two ure only just 19, and four others
are not yet 21. They were also the lightest of all
the crews in the race. Most of them have had
little experience apart from that gained at the schools.
Five out of the eight are old Adelaide High School
boys, two are from St. Peter’s and the other one
from Christian Brothers’. All of them give the
credit of their victory to Mr. Haddon, of Murray
Bridge, who, during their week’s stay, drilled into
them the advantages of the long, slow stroke with
the hard finish. The lads quickly adopted this style
and the result of the race is a complete victory for
this stroke. The Sydney lot looked the prettiest
crew of the four, but the energy they put into quick
recoveries and smart hand-work would have been
more effective if applied to a longer and harder
stroke. This is the first victory Adelaide has had
in these contests since 1910.
* # » *
Frank King, of Hindmarsk, an Adelaide
suburb which has always been keen on cricket, had
a 70th birthday lately. At 14 he was playing a
first-class club game. He was captain of Hind-
marsh for 20 years, a member of the first S.A.
team against Victoria —which good-naturedly allowed
the local men 15 on the side —and one of the
founders of the State’s Cricket Association. Off
the field he is head of a big timber firm.
The Oxford and Cambridge boatrace this
year was a striking example of the new theories
of weighting a crew. Each side put a man over
12st. as bow, and a man well under list, as
stroke. In fact, the Oxford stroke was the lightest
man in his crew by nearly 2st. As cabled at the
time, there was an Australian, Campbell (of Mel-
bourne Grammar), in the Cambridge boat, which
won easily. Oxford had twd, McNeil, of Melbourne
Scotch, and Hugh Cairns, of Adelaide.
Ernest Barry has caused a flutter in scull-
ing circles by his notification that after the Felton
match he will retire, win or lose. It means that
the first forward with a challenge and deposit after
the race will, if Barry wins, have a present of the
title by forfeit.
* * * *
The world has lost its highest-paid
slaughterman. He got £3333 6s. Bd. a month for
killing bulls, and his tally was 1430 bulls in eight
years. But in an argument at Talavera, where
Wellington sloshed Marmont in 1809, the beast
turned ahd drilled a hole in the man, and Spain
now mourns its champion bull-fighter, Joselito, pride
of all the pretty gitanas and senoritas. Perhaps a
lace-handkerchief thrown at him in a transport of
admiration by the Queen Consort, as he proudly
stood with one foot on a huge mass of beef, inflated
the deceased’s head and made him careless. Cham-
pions are*, like that.
* * * »
England is priding itself on having been
hardened by the war. Previously matches at hockey,
lacrosse or Rugby were scratched almost as a matter
of course when the ground was iron-bound with
frost, but during the late winter this seems never
to have been raised as a reason for adjournment.
“Rio” : Officers have for years called atten-
tion to the fact that the ordinary cadet companies
of wage-earning boys who have to do all their
preparation at night cannot hope to compete success-
fully in athletic or military contests with the Great
Public School units, which have not only daylight
but more instructors, better drill-grounds and gym-
nasia and the school discipline to augment the mili-
tary. I’ve known a schoolmaster to flog a boy who
was dilatory at drill. What an outcry there would
be if an ordinary cadet were thus treated! The only
chance the non-schoolboys have is in miniature
shooting when an enthusiastic and capable coach like
Colonel James is available; but even he laid the
foundation of most of his victories at a State school
in daylight. The results of the present system are
that cadet officers, after repeated attempts to achieve
the impossible, become fed-up and lose heart in the
whole concern ; the poorer boys have it impressed on
them how much better chance they’d have if father
were richer; while the Great Public School boys get
the idea that they are of superior clay to the others.
In other words, class-consciousness is sown at school.
I’m quite certain that one of the best remedies for
the present class-prejudice and antagonism would be
to find a way of mixing boys of all ranks at schoo'
and giving the poorer boys a longer school-life and
more playing fields. Until equality of opportunity
comes into the annual cadet competitions there should
be prizes in each event for the leading non-school
cadet or unit.
BRER RABBITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It does not add to the respect with which the
public has always regarded Mr. Hughes to find him
equivocating and shooting rabbits w’hen he should
be making a full statement on a matter which affects
che public interest and his own political reputation
and existence.”— Sun.
The ancient Roman poet kept a Sabine -farm to flee
to
When discredited or harassed by a foe;
The sailors of old England had a bowling-match to
see to
When the Spanish Fleet appeared off Plymouth
Hoe.
Imitative of such habits,
Hughes proceeds to slaughter rabbits
When embarrassed by the hostile acts of Watt.
Should our publicists deride him,
And the Opposition chide him ?
In the writer’s view, emphatically not.
The politician mostly is a miserable creature
AVho, when up against a crisis, merely talks ;
Long, lying explanations are his leading suit or
feature,
Mixed with rhetoric which irritates and baulks.
AVilliam Morris Hughes goes shooting
Where another might be scooting
Round the Commonwealth at your (and my) expense,
Cursing Watt for his defection,
Or suggesting an election,
Or relying on some other thin defence.
Let critics sneer and censure. On the plains of
Barambola
No skiter, but a sportsman, is at work.
His deadly twelve-bore flashes where, like niggers ini
Angola,
The panic-stricken rabbit-legions lurk;
And his prowess diabolic
Moves each stupefied bucolic
To an ecstasy of gratitude and bliss....
Quite apart from their enjoyment,
What conceivable employment
Is more suitable for Hughes, just now, than this?
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


DON’T BE A “TAILOR-MADE” MAN!
d
Don’t rely on your tailor to make you look like a man. Don t
substitute padding for muscle, and the smartness of well-cut clothes
for the smartness that comes of Perfect Physical Condition. The
best of tailors can only make you LOOK well. I make you
FEEL well.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
starts at the foundation of physical perfection. - It energises
the various organs, the lungs, the stomach, etc. It. nts
them for the proper performance of their various functions,
and gradually takes in the whole nervous and muscular
systems, building them up and fortifying them. The result
is that glorious feeling of buoyant Health and Strength
that is
The Greatest of ail Possessions
My instructions are clear and concise, anu each set of
exercises is adapted to YOUR Individual requirements,
based on the particulars you supply on the enrolment form.
One month has worked wonderful improvements ill the
Health and Measurements of many of my Postal pupils.
Their numerous testimonials are contained in my booklet,
“HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.”
Just write your name across this ad. and send it to me
with three penny stamps, and I will send it to you by
return with full particulars of my course and moderate
charges.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
280 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
W-
r<'
tews
w^
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Oyer the Wor 1 d*
Shave in Comfort.
V
If you could shave your-
self in three minutes as
well as the Barber does,
wouldn’t you rather
always do so than waste
valuable time at a bar-
ber’s shop ?
Then try a PERFORATED HONE.
It puts Easy Shaving within
reach of every man. Requires no
skill or experience to use. Give
six strokes or a hundred —you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations PREVENT WIRE-
EDGE and automatically produce
a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading HARDWARE
MERCHANTS at 5/-, or POST
FREE 5/6 FROM
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11—123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNE 1 .
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
Box 220 G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
ď
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TOWS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
— M JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WALES —Arthur Eeplastrier & Co., Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND—BIair, Reed & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
MALAY STATES, JAVA —Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
x&x
>lWOii/i K:
oX\\
i;
HI
iil
>'l:
•X
sc
S* \
I
a
NsV\\\\V\\®*
1L
S
1
! -. ■ 7:
./ '<■■
:
%
>A
&
s
i
'A
TheRQBBER-DUK
The Perfect Waterproof
for Walking or Siding.
The “Rubber-Duk” is a Real Water-
proof. It is guaranteed to keep the
Wearer Dry in the fiercest Tropical
Downpour.
This fact, combined with its
warmth-creating attributes and its
unique Capacity for Service, makes it
the Best of all Coats for Outdoor
Winter Wear.
The “Rubber-Duk” is constructed
in a stout, light-brown Duck of the
highest grade obtainable. The tex-
ture is doubled throughout with a
sheet of pure Rubber inserted between
the two thicknesses. An extra piece
extends over the chest, shoulders
and back. There is a triple thick-
ness where the fronts nieet when they
are buttoned,'so no moisture can enter
there, and, in the case of the Riding #
Model, the “Fan” protects the saddle at the back, while the Coat
buttons well over the pommel in front.
The Riding Model has been designed specially for saddle use, and
this in combination with the General Quali ties of the “Rubber-Duk
make it an Unbeatable Coat for Horsemerr’s use.
WalKing
Model
84/-
Raiding
Ilodel
90/-
POST YOUR ORDER Wli PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.,
244-54 Flinders Stre et, Melbourne


FAKMER^SYD^EY^^
CHOCOLATE S
yu-
K-!
"Lady Margaret’
Chocolates
DELICIOUS
"Fresh-Made” CONFECTIONS
HERE is pictured one of the
choicest gems from Farmer’s
Confectionery Section. It is
the " Lady Margaret ” box of deli-
cious Assorted Chocolates. The
box is a dainty affair of gold and
black, and holds, temptingly en-
sconced, one pound of the most
pleasing chocolates, with rich al-
mond, nut and nougat fillings.
The price, per box, is .. .. 5, 6
FARMER’S
Phone City 11,000 Box 497, G.P.O.
$
§
ft
SSi
P>P'
y. jg-s
When the period kn<7VTn as “the twilight of
Life” arrives, extreme care must be ob-
served to keep Colds, Influenza, and their
attendant Uls at a distance.
I
9,
IRISH MOSS
IS BEST FOR COUGHS & COLDS.
If taken in time it will prevent serious developments. Insist
on getting Bonning ton’s. Sold everywhere. BA 15
I LOTT
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Crosets
Despite his urbanity, the little Prince
knows how to get one in. At a Parliamen-
tary reception ex-A.I.F. officers were all in
khaki, but one or two M’s.P. who had ranked
only as n.c.o.'s turned up in the glad rags
of Sassiety, adding their service ribbons to
their sable coats. “Did you not serve with
the A.I.F. too?” asked H.R.H. The man
addressed owned to regiment and rank.
“Then why are you not in uniform?” came
like a rattle from a machine-gun. One M.P.
at least took care to do the rest of his
attendance duty in sergeant’s kit. “One rap
like that will do me,” he confessed wrily.
In between breaths, during a quick jazz,
a flapper artlessly asked her partner, the
Prince of Wales, what he did with his
evenings in Buckingham Palace. “Oh,”
gasped the heir of all the Britains, “Dad
plays cards with Granard and Wallington,
Mum sews, Mary reads, Albert and I play
billiards, and we all say good-night at 10
o clock. And then I slip out.”
Society cats, and cats on the fringe of
society, have never been so catty as they
were during Edward Windsor’s visit. Those
who thought they were somebodies found
themselves shouldered aside by those they
regarded as nobodies, and used their claws.
Then there was retaliation. Who’s who,
anyhow ?
At the semi-private dance at State Govern-
ment House, the Princeling was much more
friendly than at set public functions. To-
wards 3 o’clock in the morning he hob-
nobbed with the orchestra, and was allowed
to “have a go at the drum,” which he
seemed to know how to bang.
Two lasses from a city shop were “among
those present” at the Federal Government
House ball. They just arrayed themselves
in all their own magnificence and any they
could borrow, hired a taxi and went along.
The magnificence worked like a charm, and,
though they arrived rather late, they had a
thrilling time. They found that the glad eye
was effective even within those sacred por-
tals, and there was no shortage of partners.
It is time someone sharpened the axe and
cut out the lancers from heavy official dances.
It is a vaudeville show to see importants
prancing through the thing. The only Aus-
tralians who can and 1o dance the lancers
are the busy country people who ride or
drive to a dance between the evening and
the morning milkings.
For the Prince’s rest week Toorak hur-
riedly gots its floors waxed for ‘ impromptu”
dances. The surest bait for Edward was
a good dance-floor and some French, songs
turned into fox-trots. The Landales bagged
the guest at Aroona, and the Paynes had
their turn. The Lauchlan Mackinnons at
Lahuna were given time to issue a cloud of
telephone invitations. They had the young-
man for dinner and showed off the resources
of their cellar. Then young people in droves
arrived for a jazz. Gwenda Grimwade,
Gertie. Dix, Peg Forrester and Nancy Moule
—all in favor as partners for the Prince —
were there. The house was crowded with
roses (the Mackinnons are rose-enthusiasts),
and yellow r chrysanthemums were added to
make the royal colors.
The hunger of the guests at the Prince
functions was horribly obvious. Wherever
there was food the early-comers closed in
and stayed until only the tables remained
uneaten. An outsider at one gathering,
standing hopelessly at the rear, tapped two
of the place-holders and remarked audibly:
“I say, if you’re here just for enjoyment
would you mind letting me get a look in
for a moment? But if you’re really starving
here’s two bob. Go and buy yourselves a
square- meal.” The gift was declined —
perhaps because the starvers knew 2s.
wouldn’t buy anything like a meal.
The second day of the V.R.G. Birthday
Meeting scored good weather and bagged
the Prince unofficially. The young man was
a tailor’s dream in pale lavender blue trou-
sers, fawn spats, light grey overcoat and
bowler hat. He spent much time in the
saddling paddock, where he yarned with Eric
Connolly and some of the racing brethren.
One large, grey-haired trainer who was pre-
sented got into a state of furious excitement.
He took his large sundowner hat off 20
times in three minutes and made efforts to
embrace the embarrassed boy. “You are a
great nipper, your honor!” he shouted.
“ ‘Always the same’—that’s your motto.
Keep it up and you’ll be a great king.’’ The
punters clustered round when the Prince
made a bet. Two women climbed the fence
at his shoulder alongside the stabled horses.
One shrieked. “I’ve got the sugar !” and the
two flapped off hysterically to the nearest
bookie. The Royal box was deserted all
day. It looked coldly gorgeous in pale lemon
and blue; a few ’possum rugs would have
made it worth while.
None of the professors could be heard
clearly in Wilson Hall, at the University,
when they made a doctor of young Edward
and bothered him with Latin ; but the Prince
sent every word to the farthest parts in good
English. Pity he can’t linger and teach some
of the elders elocution. Still, that wouldn’t
give them the fine voice that most of the
young man’s family are born with.
The Freemasons were deeply disappointed
because the Prince did not drop in for a
few minutes at a special gathering of 15,000
of them at the Exhibition. No appointment
was on the programme, and the G.-G. and
other advisers have been using their influ-
ence with the Prince to cut out all extra
ceremonial engagements.
Officers of the Renown invited the Auto-
mobile Club to visit the boat on Thursday
morning. Members went down in droves,
and parked their cars on the pier.
Once on board they glued their noses to
the portholes of the Prince’s quarters. The
youth seems to have simple tastes; his cabin
is the most severe on the boat. Some of
the officers have gorgeous brass cots, but
Edward’s is a snug little white bunk. A
plain writing-table suggests work, but there
may be comforts tucked away behind the
white sliding panels. On Thursday a little
pink dressing-gown dangled in the breeze
beneath his sailor cap.
Admiral Halsey goes in for comfort —easy
chairs well cushioned and covered with
chintz, a monster cot heaped with down
covers, and a litter of pipes and man-
comforts about. One officer of the brass-
cot persuasion had his cabin hung with
Maori mats and trophies.
The messroom of the Prince was gorgeous
enough to please the most eager thrill-
hunters. Big silver trophies studded the
servery, and the tables were heavily deco-
rated. “No table-cloths!” whispered the
goggle-eyed women, and stored the item up
for future use. Cut glass and silver look
well on polished mahogany.
Pianist Natalie Dawson is to have a con-
cert given her by crowds of admiring friends,
who are relieved to hear that she is recover-
ing from a severe
illness after many
weeks in hospital.
Miss Dawson has
had a notable career.
She left Australia
with Melba, and was
pianist with her in
one of the early
English tours. She
has travelled as
accompanist with
Mary Conly, Philip
Newbury, Eli Hudson,
Charles Knowles and
Max Vogrich, and
was accompanist to
Walter Kirby when
he sang to the King.
In England she was
official accomDanist
at the Guildhall School of Music; Eileen
Boyd, Lucille Benstead and Elizabeth Ne\V-
bold studied repertoires with her; Ada
Crossley, Margery Maude, Ruby Helder and
Edna Thornton were enthusiastic about her
as their accompanist. Her serious break-
down in health aroused sincere sympathy
in Melbourne, and the concert is to be
arranged on her recovery. Meantime, Miss
Sheehan has carried her off to convalesce
in the hills.
There are insistent rumors of the serious
illness of Queen Alexandra. This may
account for the recent serious looks of her
devoted grandson. Visitors have noticed
that when the old Queen appeared at Court
functions Edward always had her tenderly
in charge.
Edward Vll.’s equestrian statue, done by
Bertram Mackennal, has arrived at last,
and is to be placed on the pedestal on St.
Kilda-road which has been ready for it for
over six years. It was due last'March, and
had it arrived even a couple of weeks
sooner the original’s grandson and name-
sake; who has some of his traits, might
have done the unveiling.
For the Monday night when officers of
the Renown had a party on board, the Lan-
dales had waxed the ballroom floor at
Aroona in the hope of attracting the Prince.
The Landales won the first move, the nation’s
guest and train going to Toorak. However,
the whole party went down to the Renown
in the small hours and danced until break-
fast-bells.
The Una had the misfortune to get measles
aboard, so there will be no work for the
pretty little ship during the Prince’s visit.
Surgeon-compander Ellis has been detailed
to a shore job: he has charge of the new
naval wing at Caulfield Hospital, and his
young bride is offering up thanksgivings for
the move.
The charladies had their chance on Satur-
day afternoon. Offices deserted by business
men had their windows filled by the lady of
the scrubbing-brush, and Collins and Wil-
liam streets waved a joyous farewell to the
Prince with feather-dusters and wash-cloths.
Mrs. Norman Brookes is ill with
pneumonia. The wonder is that so many,
women have escaped it this bitter weather.
Mrs. Arnold Westley, one of the smartest
frockers in Melbourne, had to leave all her
new gowns and hats in their tissue paper
during the functions. She spent the time,
seriously ill, at Mount Saint Evins Hospital.
She is just convalescent and has gone back
to her Cliveden flat.
The P. and O. people gave a brilliant ball
on the Naidera on Thursday night. The
Renown lay on the opposite side of the pier,
and some of the officers and the Prince’s
staff came on after the dinner at Govern-
ment House. The ball was a Cinderella—
or a belated Cinderella —in deference to the
passengers who wanted to get a night’s
rest. The King and Queen of Tonga, who
are on the list, came to the re_y.el. The King
looks a very polished brown knut. The
Queen wore very curly black hair and a
gown of dark blue touched up with sparkles
and fur edgings. P. and O. manager Alder-
son was a busy host. His. wife (she is one
of the Bowes Kelly clan) was radiant in
moonlight blue and a halo of auburn hair.
Mrs. Bowes Kelly, in black, sparkled with
diamonds. A host of other women of gfeat
social tonnage were on hand. Far from the
distracting jazz band there was music for
the non-dancers and a card-room; and as
for the supper in the dining-saloon it was
the most elaborate that Melbourne has seen.
With Veuve Cliquot by the magnum—a
champagne that has scarcely been sighted
here since the war!
F. G. Hughes, associate member of the
Vic. Closer Settlement Board and a Brig.-
General, has obtained four months’ leave to
trip to the Cold Country. His wife, who is
a sister to the late Janet Lady Clarke, and
commander-in-chief of the Women's National
League, only returned recently from over-
seas.
Gerald Patterson’s cousin, Bertha Braith-
waite, daughter of Colonel Braithwaite, of
Preston, is having a smack at the lawn-
tennis championships at Wimbledon (Eng.).
She has won enough tournaments locally to
sink a ship. Bertha, who swings a golf
club equally as well as a racquet, pro-
bably picked up a few extra points from the
Ivingscotes, who travelled to England on the
same boat.
, son of old Dr. Russell, of Maitland
(N.S.vV.), is in Melbourne doing some sub-
lieut. job on a warship. His bride is stay-
ing at Menzies’. They are a baby pair—
married at 17 and 19 respectively. The bride
is an English girl.
Captain Con Daly and his musical wife
are establishing themselves in Sydney for the
winter.
Adelaide summarises the week :
The Birthday Cup drew a well-dressed crowd to
Victoria Park. Big dividends, a local Cup-winner
and glorious weather made everything in the garden
beautiful. Next day was cold and windy, and the
crowd dowdy.
George Melrose, son and heir of James, married
his very decorative English bride at St. Peter’s,
Glenelg, last week. She is a daughter of the
Charles Bakers, of Castle Douglas, Scotland. Mrs.
Trevelyn Bond, the ’groom’s sister, acted as maid
of honor.
One of the many performances arranged in aid
of Girls’ Week occurred on Monday night in the
Queen’s Hall, when “The Wayside Piper,” an
allegorical pageant presenting the ideals of the
Y.W.C.A., was staged. Mayoress Hackett presided.
There was a pleasant Sunday-school air about the
proceedings.
The Weigalls made an unceremonious arrival, a
silent, staring crowd braving bad weather to see a
party of officials say a few polite welcomes before
the train-weary pair fled for Government House and
warmth. The new Ex. is tall and fairish, and his
request that no salute should be fired, so as to avoid
possible harm to soldiers suffering from shell-shock,
will popularise him. Lady Weigall, fair, pretty and
beaming under a black lace hat, attended the
swearing-in ceremony, attended by daughter Pris-
cilla, aged six. The first of the rumored 150 gowns
made an excellent impression, and was adorned with
a big clump of pink carnations.
Nurse K. Payne Hodge, R.R.C., who was matron
of Petwood when the Weigall home was used as a
military hospital, also returned by the express, after
active service in Gallipoli, Prance, Belgium and
Germany. Her Ex. was one of her V.A.’s.
Musical Adelaide turned out in force on
night to applaud Audrey Wells and Cliff Lathlean.
This enterprising young pair, recently returned from
Melba’s Couservatorium, ran a concert on their own
in the Town Hall, assisted by pianiste Maude Puddy.
It was a most successful debut.
Recent Governor Galway, writing back to a friend,
wishes he was again in his home of the past
six years. “To me, with a fairly varied experience
of climates, that of Adelaide in April and May is
the most delightful I have known in the course of
my 42 years’ wanderings,” he says.
Mrs. Maxwell Fowler has returned from England
for a short visit. Golfers will remember her as
Florence Ayers, sister of the jovial Julian.
Our one and only women’s club has had an annual
meeting and bumped up the entrance fee to £lO 10s.
and subscription to half that amount. Some enter-
prising girl ouight to start a rest-room for women
who can’t raise a handful of guineas.
Alec Chomley, elder grandson of the late
Hussey Chomley, is being congratulated on
the- news of his approaching marriage with
Annie Olive Simpson, eldest daughter of
the George Simpsons, of Berrigan (N.S.W.).
The recently-wedded Reids (she was
Hilary Mackinnon, daughter of Donald)
have gone on a trip to Britain. They will
have good company and many friends on
the Naldera, which left on Saturday.
A. H. Fullwood, back in Australia after
20 years, has just ended his double-banked
exhibition in Syd-
ney, the big canvases
having been shown
in the Education
Gallery, the smaller
gems strung around
the walls of Gayfield
Shaw's rooms. Full-
wood’s work on the
“Picturesque Atlas
of Australia” in the
’eighties is still
spoken of with glow-
ing adjectives by his
fellow-workers. Since
then Lon do n
and America have
known him, and for
years he was a regu-
lar contributor to
London Graphic and Black and White.
Though well past the eligible age he was
one of the 26 members of the Chelsea Arts
Club who enlisted for war work —and that
is how he comes back to Australia a full
lieutenant. His art will speak for itself
this incoming week in Adelaide, and later
on Melbourne will have a chance to see his
romantic glimpses of Paris and London
streets.
Hymen has roped in J. J. Virgo, the much-
travelled Y.M.C.A. representative, now back
again for a while in the Commonwealth.
There is a nice little web of romance around
this betrothal. Dorothy Aston, who is the
daughter of a Birmingham parson, was one
of the large body of honorary wotnen-
workers for the Y.M.C.A. in England during
the war, and she drove J.J.’s motor-car
during a tour of France. An extended
honeymoon over most of the world will
come when the ’groom-to-be returns to Eng-
land from Australia in a few months’ time.
Ethel Waddell, who linked up with the
elderly Campbell, honorary State Minister,
last week, with the aid of Scotchbyterian
McCrae Stewart, served as a nurse for
between two and three years in France and
England. Premier Lawson and his dame
and fellow-worker Hutchinson, with daughter
Margaret, helped to eat the breakfast. The
house of the bride’s brother-in-law, F. V.
Lewis, at Murrumbeena, served for cere-
mony and feast.
Public schools dating back hundreds of
years are no novelty in England, especially
in those parts affected by the interest
aroused in popular education by the Tudor
monarchs, and there is a clutch of them
on the Worcester-Warwick-Staffordshire
borders. One is Wolverley, founded by a
knight of the shire of Worcester named John
Sebright, who left enough lftnd in the heart
of London in 1620 to endow very richly
a school in three sections—for village boys,
village girls and a grammar school for fee-
paying students. This being the 300th anni-
versary of the foundation, old Wolvernians
in England are gathering for a commemora-
tion in July, and an attempt is being made
to arrange a simultaneous reunion in Mel-
bourne. A Geelong pressman named Llewel-
lyn Griffiths is the moving spirit.
There may be a new field for women as
Trade Commissioners. During the absence
abroad of S. W. B. McGregor, British Trade
Commissioner for Australia, a very capable
young lady, _ Miss Middleton, is keeping
things going in the Melbourne office.
To try to brace himself up for the com-
ing session, State Treasurer McPherson has
gone over to Sydney, and will spend two
or three weeks quietly at Manly. He is
recovering very slowly from heart disturb-
ance, probably one of the consequences of
a bad digestion.
The Artists’ Ball, which lapsed during the
war, is to be revived in the St. Kilda Town
Hall on June 25. There will be a pageant
with an Indian setting.
St. Kilda is getting its nerves joggled with
the rehearsals for a movie: Zoe Rothwell,
Rita Heron and Ray Whiting, with a bunch
of helpers, are busy on a comedy-drama.
Leslie McCallum is producer, and it will run
to 2000 feet of film. The heroine is Alison
Cummings, and the chief “set” scenes are
at St. Leonards, the swanky flats owned by
papa Cummings.


i rx
wv»
m y
t ri I
i
%
ZoßSm* ■
# ml
nj
SaMe;v
sslm«
U*
'
'
*:*t#
m
■ um l
...^
JftSsS
• ••***'
♦l-
*♦»
- a
is::
*, t
... ..-• ■ ....... ' * 5 :
* 11
? ' •:r J
/■ ... #*•«»+ *• *
«**.•*»•*»«»»*
••* • •
* <#**»*
* •* «
~ ~ A ’J' - V, v x
* •**••** Zp m
■ ■■■-■■ -u k ...... ...
%■ *
ill ®T%
* .
,
:*■.■* -
.... "V?
R
.O
W
L.
c
\


Under
Royal
Warrant
da
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
Otorlcsncidsic*
« Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Motor Traders
As a Ford Accessory the L. & R.
Auxiliary Oiler has established itself
throughout the Commonwealth, a fit-
ment worthy of the recommendation
of Motor Trader and Ford owner.
You really save money on your motor-
ing the day you fit one.
Illustrated folder on application.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett tfßarkell Limited
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
'/A
iSnmiK (Hi®y[bs3
The very acme of style and fit
combined with the perfection
of workmanship that de ights
Every pair i* guaranteed and
must give you satisfactory
wear or they will be replaced
free of charge.
Insist on Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves.
VF. 15
The Wind of
Fashion.
This each charming lady
knows—•
Even' wind of Fashion
blows
Round Dame Fashion’s
dainty toes
Frocks contrived by Shave.
While the dainty Lady’s
flitting
Shav" t ler frocks
sans fitting.
Visits to Sydney and
Adelaide twice, and to
Brisbane once yearly.
SHAVE
Ladies' Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
=1
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
Jones'
Catalogue
The voice that goes for so much with the
Prince is a family possession. King George
had a fine voice and elocution when, as Duke
of York, he spoke his piece at the opening
of the Federal Parliament in Melbourne’s
vasty Exhibition building. King Edward,
his grandfather, had a fine, full voice, though
it was thickened, the Prince having got his
early ideas of how to speak from a purely Ger-
man father. Queen Victoria was noted for her
silvery-clear tones, and a delivery which she
had learned from Miss Heath, the first wife
of Wilson Barrett. Bertram Mackennal, the
sculptor, who once talked with Queen V. in
a corridor at Windsor Castle, said that the
majesty of the stout little lady was in her
elocution. Had Edward inherited a thin
voice and a stammer, he wouldn’t now be
touring the Empire as a traveller for the
monarchy.
When Lieutenant Flora Sandes, very gal-
lant-looking (if a trifle retrousse), came in
, her Serbian uniform as a (reminder of the little
• hill-bound country, with one heart the Serb
in the land rushed to greet her; and soldier
and civilian made themselves smart and
. joined in the three cheers. After which the
Millions Club lunched the lady, and drank
to her health in the raspberry-syrup for
which it is famous.
White of hair and cherry-smooth of skin,
' it seems incredible that Miss Sandes should
f ever have been one of that ragged remnant
of an army, dirty, frozen and starved, eat-
ing their hearts out waiting for the help
that had been promised and was never sent.
The Serbia she paints is a country of small
hill-farms, where each man grows the grain
.and the meat for his hunger and the cloth
for his back. But the farms on the moun-
tain-sides have been laid waste, and the
cattle that browsed on the sparse pastures
have been driven away—this mostly after
the Armistice. The fields are no longer
golden with maize and wheat, for there is
little grain left in the land for sowing ; the
good wife’s loom is idle for want of wool
\ und yarn, and her little ones shiver in their
rags and die from hunger and cold. And
the faithful porker which had bred with
great constancy can no longer be seen or
smelt: and, worst perhaps of all, there are
. only nine sound locomotives left to the dis-
tressful country.
But the cry of Serbia must be hushed
till after the Prince’s visit; and by that time
Sydney, being rather blase, and having be-
come used to the sight of Lieutenant Flora’s
uniform, will probably have drifted back
to indifference.
A cable from London announces that “the
post-war orgy of spending is over”; that
“women of the highest .social position are
cutting down their dress expenditure by
two-thirds”; and, above all, “it is the new
rich who are making extravagance a cult.”
The thins is as old as social life, and as
ineradicable as pride.
The simple reason why the new rich will
never agree to cease spending lavishly is
that extravagance represents the solitary
lever which is capable of pushing them up
the social tree. Sydney is a microcosm which
differs in no respect from the largest centres.
We have our families who have struggled
laboriously to the top. Their men-folk may
now wear ready-made clothes and bashed
hats, and the women be as dowdy as they
like. They don’t want their names in the
; Sunday press, having soared above the need
for cheap distinction. If it were possible
they would willingly forbid the rich arrivists
from the Backblooks, the outer suburbs and
Newcastle to make themselves conspicuous
with expensive parties and gaudy clothes.
But the climbers have no intention of
being “had” in that way. They perfectly
well understand the friend- or. rather, guest-
buying game, and they mean to play it for
its ultimate results.
Sydney’s first screen-flight of the Smith
boys (not forgetting the mechanics, please)
was made last week in a crowded Town
Hall with vice-royalty to give it proper
God-speed from a little island of carpet,
with vegetation of comfortable leather easy-
chairs. Ross sat between Dame Margaret
and his Ex., and the Frank Lambs and Miss
Henderson were amongst those also com-
fortably provided for ; the remainder of the
house sat upon the cane inflictions which
the municipal fathers persist in regarding
as chairs. Knoxes and Fairfaxes and Arthur
Allens gave social recognition to the pic-
ture. But somehow the flight loses its
wonder-gripping qualities when the audi-
ences sees the ease with, which the cinema-
man does it. The lecture that accompanied
the second part of the picture seemed an
interminable jumble of names, punctuated
by “And then we alighted on the race-
course.” All the world apparently has its
racecourse, and Ross, in spite of the Scotch
cheekbones, is Australian enough to find it.
The flight from Darwin to Adelaide was
interesting and beautiful; but how could
any man who passed over a city in the act
of cleaning his teeth, so to speak, tell in
detail of its minarets, its spires and its
domes from the passing glance? One sus-
pects the encyclopaedia. “Damitall.” said
the crusty old man on the right, “I knew
he flew over India, hut I didn’t expect him
to have surveyed it.”
Hundreds of V.A.’s squeezed themselves
into the King’s Hall the other night for a
roll-call: and it was on a sea of pretty white
and crimson uniforms and smiling faces that
Mrs. Gordon Wesehg looked down when the
great moment arrived and she was handed a
memento of the V.A. movement bound hand-
somely in red morocco by the boys of Gray-
thwaite. Mrs. Wesclni was one of the first
five women on the Red Cross directorate,
and one of the founders of the V.A. move-
ment. Colonel Roth, Hanbury Davies and
Mrs. Ashton did the talking for the girls.
After long and strenuous service in
Egypt and Franco,
Sister O’Connell, a
former matron of
Omrah, in Sydney,
was sent across to
Southall and given
charge of the ward
which housed the
double - amputation
cases; and when
that job was over
she returned to Aus-
tralia to give the
same splendid devo-
tion to her precious
“stumpies” at Rand-
wick. Not always
easy patients to
handle, these “double”
cases. When a young
man who has been
used to a strenuous life finds himself with-
out legs or suddenly short of arms, he is
liable to sell out cheap, as he puts it, and
take very little further interest in himself.
This great-hearted woman has been more
than a nurse to these boys; and in Rand-
wick, as in Southall, they have repaid her
with an affection which any woman in the
world might be proud of.
The little Mayoress’s clothing fund for
women and children is asking a little of your
spare time. Will you give it to help in
making up new material or in altering old
garments contributed? Singer’s are provid-
ing sewing-machines for the workers; and
any morning you care to take some of the
family’s old clothes, its shabby boots and
shoes, and the blanket you can really man-
age without to the basement of the Town
Hall you will find someone to take charge
of your parcel.
Died at Manly, last week, Reginald Laid-
ley, father of Helen and Melanie, two of
Sydney’s good-lookers. The girls had a moun-
tain of cards for Princely doings, too, and
were to have been the guests of Mrs. AVillie
Collins during the young man’s call at her
Queensland home.
Mr. Laidley’s death will put about half
social Sydney in mourning. His wife, who,
like the stronger of the two girls, did de-
voted war-work all through the late trouble
in Europe, was the eldest of the AVeston
family. Her younger sister is Mrs. Neville
Hangar, whose only girl has just “come
out.” Shepheard Laidley is a brother, and
the Morts, AA r atts and Merivales are con-
nected. In the early days the family lived
at Hillside, one of the most attractive places
in the Edgecliff-road, but it'was sold at the
beginning of the century and turned into a
boarding-house. Then Harry Levy bought
and did it up, and it is now the property
of the Sep Levys. The dead man was
extremely popular, the result of a wonder-
fully pleasant and kindly temperament. He
had been under sentence of death for several
months, but never at any time flinched ; and
the end when it did come was mercifully
sudden.
The Hardy AATlson collection at Anthony
Horderns’ draws its steady stream of
admirers; and the fans are so wickedly
beautiful that the meekest woman from
Coogee will one day murder the attendant,
loot the case, and risk a sympathetic jury.
The Chinese fans are surely the most won-
derful monuments to human patience—ivory
sticks so delicately carved that they re-
semble lace work; or, again, the tortoise-
shell, black of hue, looking from a distance
like some handsome palpitant moth that
seeks to elucidate the mystery of night, out-
spread in the white light of a star. The
fragrant sandalwood has been treated in
the same way, and one wonders who was
the No. 1 wife whose velvety little brown
hand fluttered the treasure. Silks there
are embroidered in Persia, in China, in Hoi-
land and in England in the 16th, 17th and
18th centuries; and of these the English
silks, with their embroideries of rosebuds,
poppies and cornflowers, speak pride of the
Spitalfield looms and master-weavers in
every fold. No need then for a City father
to send to Lyons for silk for his wife’s dress
for the Guild pageant.
Mrs. Ernest Watt has emerged after a
long spell in St. Vincent’s Hospital. She and
her husband are going north for a sea-trip
in about a week.
The will left by Edward Noyes puts his
widow in possession of somewhere about
£SO,OOO. Mrs. Edward is one of Sydney’s
smart dressers; and her frocks were always
a feature of a Randwick meeting.
Passed through Sydney during the week
Violet Walroud, the 15-year-old Auckland
flapper who goes off by the Euripides to
show her form at Antwerp in the Olympic
games. Violet’s specialty is swimming, and
her record is 100 yards in 71 seconds.
Alice Grant Rosman, who used to be The
Bulletin’s “Rosna,” and for 10 years past
has kept track of Australian women and other
mysteries for the British Australasian in
London, has at last cut her connection with
the press in order to give more attention
to Literature. She has had several success-
ful novels published already, and is going to
pour them out now. But she is far too much
in love with Australia to give Literature all
her time. With her mother, Mrs. Bowyer
Rosman —she has published a volume of
verse, too —“Rosna” will go on being a good
friend to Australians in London. She can’t
help it.
Mrs. Freddie Shipman has gone to Eng-
land from India. She intends to have a run
l ■and her dative TJ.S.A. before making for
Australia. Ilubby has been doing well in
India with two or three touring companies.
In May, Bananaland pianist Cahill and
tenor Brookes gave a command concert for
Viceroy Chelmsford, and before that some
immense potentate ordered a special serving
of music at his palace.
John Brunton has had word from sister
Dorothy that he hasn’t got the brother-in-
law the Australian papers lately presented
him with. She certainly, she says, wasn’t
at the wedding in which she was credited
with having played the lead. ft
Nurse Margaret Slater, daughter of James
Slater, of Quaama, South Coast, was mar-
ried in Sydney last week to Frederick All-
man, of Wallerawang, son of the late George
Allman, of the same district. The couple
have left for their cabbage patch.
Doris Remington, of Warrawee, married
her Major Bruce Minter, of Wahroonga, in
St. Philip’s during the week, with Canon
Bellingham to tie the knot. Three brides-
maids in shell pink and full bridal trim-
mings helped the bride to the conclusion
that it was the day of her life. Bridegroom
Bruce and best-man Osborne and grooms-
men Telford Simpson and Roy Lindeman
wore their stars and khaki for the occasion.
I he Wentworth ballroom and Mrs. Reming-
ton welcomed the wedding party.
This is May Moore’s photograph of
0. 11. Hay, for many
years secretary of
the Premier’s Depart-
ment, and holding
the further distinc-
tion of being sec-
retary of m any
Premiers’ conferen-
ces. lie is the man
who has organised
Sydney’s Welcome to
the Prince —-just as
h e arranged her
welcome to Jellicoe,
the Victory celebra-
tions, and the Bird-
woo.d entry. His office
in George-street has
known him less these
latter days than any
other part of the
Royal route. Mornings have beeii given over
to rehearsing down at Farm Cove, and after-
noons have been spent at Town Halls and
other imposing structures. But if his name
goes down to history it will be because he
refused to build a special stand for members
of Parliament and their wives and their
families to view the Prince’s progress from.
David Low and sister Dorothy have sur-
prised their Australian friends. David, so
a press cable says, has married Madeline
Kenning, of Auckland, and Dorothy has
changed her name to Vergas. The pair kept
their intentions a dark secret. Louis McCub-
bin, who saw much of the artist and his
sister as recently as a couple of months
back, knew nothing of pending wedding bells,
and Dave’s closest pals in Melbourne hadn’t
heard a tinkling of the event. Dorothy’s
husband comes from the little-known S.
American republic of Colombia, the capital
whereof, Bogota, straddles one of the highest
peaks in the Andes, and though only a
couple of degrees from the Equator, 'has
never heard of a summer’s day. If dainty
Mrs. Vergas should ever visit there, she will
get a whiff of Australia from the towering
eucalypts growing in the principal plaza.
Prince or no Prince, Linda Lloyd, of Neu-
tral Bay, kept her wedding tryst with Ken-
neth Binnie, of Quirindi, at St. Stephen’s
Scotsbyterian church the other day, with
popular John Ferguson as matrimonial re-
feree. Jocelyn McMillan, Eileen Lloyd and
Joan Binnie bridesmaided in green and yel-
low taffeta respectively, and all the young
men cast for leading roles were lately of the
A.I.F. The party was at the Australia.
Bodington, Wentworth Falls, drops a line
to ask if anybody can send along some
comedy sketches—preferably ones that don’t
require many “props” or much dressing. The
boys, too, ask The Bulletin to say thank
you to the kindly-hearted timber-man who,
in response to this Letter’s story of the
building of the theatre, supplied timber suf-
ficient to make seats to fill the hall; and
to the Red Cross for sending up the piano
that was so badly needed; and to Mrs. Flor-
ence C. Fairley, of the Astor House Hotel,
Shanghai, who, reading the same paragraph,
posted the Bodington Musical and Dramatic
Society a donation of £5. The world’s a
kindly old place, after all.
Returned to the Maori Dominions last
week Auckland Herald editress Runcie,
filled with an aching desire to see more of
a Sydney that opened its arms to her. Teas
and parties were strewn upon her way, and
when last seen the slim young woman was
hanging over the taffrail of her vessel with
a forest of flowers and a heavy cold.
Nell Joske’s soldier-brother Clive dropped
into Sydney in attendance on Governor Sir
Cecil Rodwell, of Fiji, but only had 24 hours
before sailing away. And he would have
been such an open sesame during Prince’s
week, too; for H.R.H. had got almost
chummy with the slim young airman in
Fiji. Brothers have no sense at all.
Feeling that the appeal of Lady Helen
and Dame Margaret on behalf of the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital called for a direct
and personal reply, Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh
convened a meeting at Farmer’s to arrange a
gala matinde at the Tivoli in aid of the good
cause. Incidentally, she netted some big
fish for her basket: Judge Backhouse made
a stirring appeal, and the capable Maitland
lady is giving a secretarial hand. The
Tivoli is to be handed over on the afternoon
of June 28, the artists and stage-hands, of
course, giving their services. Boxes are to
be sold at £5 ss. each; and the dress-circle
and stalls will cost 10s. Gd. a seat. The
meeting growing enthusiastic, £125 was
taken up on the spot: Mrs. C. E. Waters
threw £25 into the hat, and Mrs. Anthony
Hordern 20 guineas. Many others rose to
the £5 mark, and Minister for Motherhood
McGirr promised to draw £ for £ from the
Treasury.
Oh, yes, the usual decorations, hinting at
loyalty and all that sort of thing, are going
up over that shop whose owner, after the
war, told the returned soldier-employees that
he was very glad to see them back, and then
proceeded to distribute a good sum in hard
cash among those employees who hadn't
gone to the war. The money was, he ex-
plained, given to ' them as a reward for
“sticking to the firm.”
Moiseiwitsch has heard some of Roy
Agnew’s compositions, and has offered to
introduce one or two of them into his Mel-
bourne programmes. America, too, is ro
hear Roy’s work from the nimble fingers of
the pianist; and, what is more, Moiseiwitsch
is quite sure, after hearing “The Wild Man’s
Dance” and “La Belle Dame Sans Merci,”
that he can find a publisher for the young
Australian’s compositions in Yankee-land.
If you strike the big gong in a little pas-
sage high up in Lawson Buildings, Nelson
Illingworth will bring out his leonine locks,
and if you explain that you want to .see his
model of General Birdwood he’ll show you
into his rambling workshop-studio where the
little Digger hides under a cloth. TJn-
shrouded he proves to be the same genial
soldier-chap we have grown to like so enor-
mously ; and Mr. Illingworth has caught the
quick, raking gaze of the General, and the
whimsical mouth-line of the good raconteur
the old boy proved himself to be. Five
sittings Birdwood gave his sculptor; and the
Davidsons the other morning, even to Diana
and Daphne, expressed their admiration and
liking for the result. But William Morris
Hughes has not yet viewed the bust. AVhen
he does, and passes his verdict, the General
remains -with us, or goes to the War Office.
If the Prince of Wales becomes King he
will be the first to be clean-shaven for over
a century. Even the Georges were not
smooth-faced in the modern sense: they
affected side-levers of the sort worn by family
coachmen in the Victorian epoch, and ten-
tatively grown by certain knuts of a decade
ago. And prior to the appearance in Eng-
land of the House of Orange the nation’s
royalties were as unrelievedly ziffed, f>r
the most part, as the Prince’s own father
and grandfather.
And Mrs. Monty Severn says she is going
to jazz with the Prince because she danced
with his father.


■
■■■■■■■■■■
'■ ■■■: "
M
m
m
.
m i
n
.■■■.
’
mm
m:m
m
WboM
i
WMmSi
HH
m
HHI
m
m
wm
i
1
i!
fa
I ,
■
saKS? i
■i
?«
. «
i
§1 lllli
a
5. :
i m
H
.WJ
: x-x:'
i I
m
■>?
mm
.
in
;
m s |
'
mm
® ,
H
■g*
M
i.
■
JH
Hll
■
i i!
eiiiifis
Ka cl
.V •
■
Hi;
fc
n
■x ; ;
mm
*.>»*. ~
- 1
mL
mm
»;
t§
PH
I I
!l■
Sir
F 4
mm
U
HUlfesai
P.---V
sn
ri
H
JMITH U
JOLIUS
•STtlDiy.
8
£
0°
I —,
eL
The "Value of <SMusic
CARLYLE has said that "music is a kind
of inarticulate, unfathomable speech which
leads us to the edge of the Infinite, and com-
pels us for a moment to gaze into it.” It is the
universal language of the feelings which in-
creases sympathy and broadens the horizon of mankind.
a
HERBERT SPENCER, in his "Origin and Function of
Music,” has placed it at the head of the fine arts, declaring
that music cannot be too much applauded as a noble means
of ministering to human welfare.
Thus these two gifted Englishmen give voice to the feelings
which stir in the hearts of the masses.
The Beale Player-Piano is the one instrument for the whole
family. It is an unlimited source of pleasure to those who
cannot play by hand, and the golden mellowness of the
tone appeals to the technically proficient musician. The
children can listen to the best in pianoforte composition
and study expressipn as indicated by the world’s masters.
The better musician you are the more you will appreciate the Teale
Showrooms :
333 George St.
Sydney
BEALE
AMD COMPANY LTD.
Factories:
-47 Trafalgar
Annandale
BRANCHES
N. S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Victorian Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


Learn to Draw,
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
rs
The above
is the title
of our book-
i't, which
tells about
tlie possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by fl Altlt V' J.
W KSTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference betueen
hsrning to Coi’Y
nod to DItAVV.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—•
“THERM’S
MONEY
IN
THE
TEN.”
the harry J, WESTON
Postal I'chool of Drawing,
210 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
iiSt
.
'm
J-t-l
333*5
m
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading Hotel,
SAFETY
s|§ COMFORT
Fla/me/eliss*'*
dada
No mefal
can touch you
FOR WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein Sc Company, Chicago.
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
d
600 Shaves
in One Blade
with the Only Heel &
Toe Motion Stropper.
Post Free, 30/=
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Send To-day to
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
Public Notices.
1 IPT OP RAND-CLEARING INVEN-
X TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING,”
Griffith, N.S.W.
HORSEHAIR SADDLE-CLOTHS.
ďa
SHOWING
INSIDE
HAIR.
- y"' - v
SHOWING
OUTSIDE
FELT.
insurance: against sore backs.
We have now landed a small shipment of these excellent saddle-cloths. They are
made of hair woven in a peculiar manner and covered with blue felt sewn and quilted.
35/-
POST FREE FOR
CASH WITH ORDER.
Highly Recommended by Everyone
Who Has Used Them.
KOO-KOO-K'BURRA J?
HIPS
—Bfr
Kburra Stockwhips
Expert Plaited and all Kangaroo.
dada
HANDLES TO MATCH
10/0 and 18/6 each.
WHIPS POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER. WRITE FOR OUR FINE SADDLERY CATALOGUE
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD., m George Street, Sydney.
gSlc^-cjnr^
f =ti
0
<
u
A
0
<
0
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Svdney - - . Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street. Rrisbane Phone 2382
C-A-C-
da
-c Qca-c-
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
are made under the supervision of leather experts, who never
overlook the fact that a Shoe Dressing should not only POLISH,
but also act as a PRESERVATIVE. Only the finest ingredi-
ents are used in these world-famous Dressings.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
O. r v o
IT STANDS THE STRAIN.
Shafting has to stand enormous strains, and for this reason
power users must have the test
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” BRIGHT SHAFTING
-—is of highest-quality drawn steel and maximum strength.
A new shipment to hand of round shafting of various diameters.
Sizes and prices will be promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
The Eagle C&L Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel
(Australian Agents for Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.),
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
FORTUNES IN FILMS.
OPPORTUNITY TO INVEST IN NEW AUSTRALIAN
ENTERPRISE.
MONEY IN SHARES.
The time is now opportune for Australians to show
that they can build up their own industries and
make Australia truly great and prosperous. A River
of Riches is flowing into the Australian Stock Ex-
changes for investments in mining, etc. Why not
for films, as is the ease in England and America,
where hundreds of film companies capitalised at
millions are being formed daily, and all making
money for the lucky shareholders?
FRANCIS BIRTLES FILM ENTERPRISES is
already in the Picture-making Business, and its
earliest films are on view throughout Australia. It
row plans expansion to enable it to cover the whole
field of picture-production, and to compete in the
markets of the world, by means of pictures made by
Australians in Australia. It has established its
base .and dug in on its advanced line awaiting the
word forward.
It is for Australians who know what their own
country is capable of, and who remember how they
have successfully competed with the world in other
and now strenuous fields, to give the word. Judging
by the amount of money that is annually sent o t of
Australia to add to the wealth of picture producers
in other lands, Australians may give the word in,
confident anticipation of rich reward. We can make
pictures; why not make them? Australia has the
whole world as a market; only the capital is needed
to secure success. Anyone requiring Prospectus and
further particulars may obtain same on application
to Francis Birtles Australian Film Enterprises,
G.U.0.0.F. Buildings, Sydney, pending the opening
up of Branches throughout the Commonwealth.
[4
We Desire
to Buy
da
PLATINUM, at £lB per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILATER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS. PEARLS and other
Fine Gen.s.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., Sydney. 1
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed i. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERDY, F.S.S., General Manager.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (jexcept of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
frame and address must appear on the MSS. fro
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
X.A.I.F.: No, it isn’t true that the £400
per annum gratuity which Federal members have
just voted themselves is to be paid in non-negotiable
bonds... .R.L.J.: Some good lines and some weak
ones, and too reminiscent of other things. .. .S.J.T.:
“Machine Gun” is very well done ; but it comes too
late.... Farina: Hopeless; why didn’t you try to put
some color into it?....Grad: Tell us of the little
things you know about. In plain Australian, talk
shop... .N.B.M.: Yes, we’re always hungry. But
don’t forget—we like our food concentrated....
Badila: But are these people who make the trouble
the people who also seek naturalisation?... .B.H.H.:
First of all, have you read the book? How can you
quarrel with a critic’s conclusions upon it if you
haven’t ?.... Mid C.: For Heaven’s sake give us
some space between your lines... .G.L.T.: “Kidnap-
ping” catches nothing... .L.F.T.: Doesn’t get near....
S.J.T.: There is fair work in it; but it’s not much
of a yarn.... Kolora: Old ground badly worked....
John G. A.: You’ll have to grow up a bit before you
can write a story... .S.B.E.: The attempt to vyork
up the horror fades out.... A.G.J.: Two held for
another reading... .Fragrant: Not nearly enough yarn
! there Ethel M.: The verse is altogether too loose
and thin. It is correct enough in its way, but has
all the qualities of not very distinguished prose....
William R.: Far too wordy. Can’t you condense and
sharpen 'it?. ...E.B. (Katoomba): You say “honor
is dead” in Australia, yet make no attempt to prove
it. Similarly you make loose remarks about some
old writers without any evidence to justify them. ...
Hubert L.: Not badly done, but not the sort of
thing we hanker after... .J.C.G.: You must put
more work into them. A rhyme like “glows” and
“follows” is impossible.... Marama-lai-lai: The
verse is very rough. You shouldn’t find it hard to
get something worth writing about. Then put in
real work at it....V.Y.: “Peace” is no use. Verse
must be verse and say something... .11. II. (Orange):
Sounds like a bad hash of a wild-west murdergraph.
.....Francis A.: It was only worth a short par.;
and the interest even then would depend oh the way
the par. was written. .. .Alexander S.: Verse begin-
ning “Beneath the surge the prowling reptile lay”
rejected itself... .L.G.: That “Digger Prince” stuff
is ridiculous... .W.E.K.: A lot of rather rugged
verse to get to a very small point... .L.H.R.: All
too rough for the thin thoughts they carry. . . .
U.C. (Illabrook) : No use to us.... Ivy B.: There is
color, but so little to say. .. .Michael D.: Not enough
on the bones. .. .M.S.M.: It doesn’t make a yarn. .. .
Brighouse: So much to do and so little done —it is
like climbing Kosciusko to catch a tomtit... .Swamp
Mahogany: Not for us. . . . A.H.T.: We don’t reprint.
. ...F.E.B.: “Ace” held for inquest... .Pioneer: Not
enough in the incident.... Doretta: Jack and Jean
are about as interesting as a bunch of carrots....
W.A.M.: Sounds like a Methodist hymn. .. .L.E.:
They have a chance... .K.E.B.: “Lons” is a very
dull person... .A.W.: “Fools” won’t do... .S.N.O.:
“Madame” is nicely done, but there isn’t much in
the lady... .Recip. Cyn.: “Eugenics” and “Smells”
must go back. . .. Rogo: Too lumpy... .T.P. (Can-
terbury) : Those names have been worked too often.
. ...J.K. (New Farm): Interested to know that you
“jungled ’neath the lamp.”. . . . Bilomac: Not up....
Plodder: “The Lover” is as thin as a Western rabbit.
. ...D.L.S.: One stanza deserves a place:—
The gentle sunbeams of the rising sun
Cast their shadows there,'
Playfully dancing in their fun,
Amid the sweetness of the air.
The Voice of Nature stirs within,
The dewdrops glistening in the grass
Stir the heart, all thought of self forsake
While the roosters crowing in the distance
Seem to cry Awake! Awake !
. ...F.P.C.: Very lame verse. .. .M.R.: It has a
delicate lilt and a haunting burden: —■
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COIU? ESl’ONDKNTS.
Haeusler: Some humor, hut you need to work more
of it into your line. .. . A.J.L.: You draw like a
Serious Soul. Without the pencilled remarks they
would extract tears from a blood-sweating hippopota-
mus. .. .R.E.P.: Unsuitable. .. .F.C.K.; Joke seems to
have fallen overboard on the way. Drawing sank on
arrival. .. .M.G.: We think it’s a beginner’s mess. .. .
E.G.: The sort of things that people never say
attached to the sort of things people should never
draw... .C.L.: You did them both with your little
hatchet... .R.E.R.: Of course they’re supposed to be
young and beautiful creatures, but they look like
drapers’ wax figures after a fire... .G.H.A.: The hind
leg of an idea. You can’t draw well enough yet... .
B.B.: The Envious One and the Goaded One have
been carelessly upholstered. Also, their allegedly
humorous dialogue is dull... .Il.C.Y.: You can’t draw
much, but your covering letter blares and booms
like a full orchestra playing the National Anthem.
The Art Editor stood up to read it. Develop that
style and become a heavyweight leader-writer....
Les N.: Drink and lots of it is the only antidote
for such irritating wit....E.S.: You’re very lavish
with material. Another ton of Bristol-board and
you’ll be on the way to get a few accepted.
“Mirza”: This ought to be sweeter than
beer in the comb to “Ex-Dig” and those of
his cobbers (B. 22/4/’2O) who are suffering
from the onslaughts of the Nile worm. Caul-
field (Vic.) Military Hospital announces a
cure for the disease (bilharzia), and in-
vites all the worm’s hosts to get into com-
munication with its clinic. The discovery,
not being the imported variety, but Aus-
tralian, hasn’t been put in big type in the
daily splurges. But it is none the worse on
that account.
Some such words ofttimes we hear
By man or woman
Used; when begged to appear
At special functions near:
“Oh, I’ll come if I can.”
Ilf some kindly act for one
Or many is the plan,
Some work required to be done,
We hear answered o’er the ’phone:
“Oh, I’ll come if I can.”
When to church some do not go
But sporting news they scan
When parsons beg them, you know,
To attend, you’ll hear: “What ? No,
But I’ll come if I can.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Rath rooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lid.,
Tel.—City 4246. 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
mi: Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 21,
VENTURA.
10.0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office; Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL laNK^
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subsoribe'd Capital' .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
IIICAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198.679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman :
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (326 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places Throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 7 50,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
CRANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Btreet.
Paid-up Capital • • • • • • £500,000
Reserve Fund .. . - • • • • 600,000
£1,100,000
Uncalled Capital . . • • • • 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 6250)00
£1,850,000
lle\d Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 88 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad colleoted
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
LKlUwitd.
Shipping, etc.
Can adian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, June 24, 3 p.m.
R.M.S. TAHITI, July IC.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palis and New York can all he visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,viaWellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
Tofua, from Wellington, July 15.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, July 8.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
i®
mm
Wi&iyxJi
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 18X7.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £4,765,700
3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles I£. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
llea<l Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office —29 Xlireartneertle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
dada
da
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking- Business
in the Principal Cities and Town* of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
Wllf Service Hornes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. July Ist, 1920. Governor.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up £2,462,578 2 G
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
27,082,578 2 6
■w
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Hater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
11. 11. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane. E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
INTERSTATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart Parker Lim
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE* 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
• (JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Intuited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited,
ltlackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS EOK:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
I*. O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Iluddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne. Sydney'. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


mi
&
■fi
For the children’s
sake and your own—
Get a NEW EDISON
Bedtime music is better than fairy stories, because
it has a more soothing influence on the children s
minds and they sleep sounder and more restfully.
And don’t they just revel in good music, too! It is
hard to say whether they, or you, will get the most
pleasure from a New Edison.
The New Edison absolutely re-creates the human
voice and musical instruments. So perfect is it that
its reproductions cannot be detected from the
original by direct comparison, and many, who have
no time for ordinary talking-machines, are very
enthusiastic about the New Edison.
A New Edison means enjoyment for all the family
and friends. You should certainly write for illus-
trated literature. Post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Complete the Good Work of the Rain—BUY STATE LOAN BONDS.
BMiwwiaiiisiii»
ps
*3 *
0
“Yes, indeed, it was the Simple
Safety Taps that Decided Me.”
“The ‘DaspyT Heater has everything else I wanted—moderate
gas consumption and price, pure water supply, rapid flow, handsome
appearance.
BUT I BELIEVE IN ‘SAFETY FIRST’ IN THE BATHROOM
as everywhere else. That decided me to instal the Daspyl in my
new bathroom.’’
The “Daspyl” is nickel-plated, non-contact, and delivers about two gallons of
heated water per minute. The taps are so arranged that (1) the pilot roust be turned
on first - (2) then the water; (3) and lastly the gas. This prevents explosions, or the
possibility of the inside of the heater being burnt out through turning on the gas only.
The Heater for the Home Call in and see it working.
Price, Complete with Nickel-plated Shower Attachment, £l2/15/-
Without shower attachment, £ll/10/-
Bath Heaters for use with air-gas.
Compact Gas-Heaters for basin use in dentists’ surgeries.
INSPECTION INVITED. CALL IN TO-DAY. CATALOGUES POSTED.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. Ltd.,
324 PITT STREET (near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY. And at Melbourne.
“Sweet Crop” Tobacco, put up in 1 joz. tins, 1/5
(post free) ; or 6 tins for 8/6 (post free.)
“Sweet Crop” Cigarettes, 10 in a packet, 9d.; or
10 packets for 7/6, post free, from
1C
nUSTRALmS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
da
City Sports Depot
99 King St, d/so at
T/ewcasile l Brisbane.
When
Teddy
Woodbine
Comes to
Town.
By Coralie Stanley, N.Z.
Say, ’ave yer seen the buntin’ they’re displayin’ in the shops?
’Ave yer seen the electricians fixin’ lights on fancy props?
Ya ought ter see McQuarrie Street; it doesn’t know fer why
It’s dolled up like a pantermime ter see the Prince go by.
’Yde Park’s all in a flutter ’cause they’re puttin’ railin’s round
T er keep the mob in check when Teddy Woodbine comes ter town.
The tin hats in the Army is goin’ ter bust ’emselves wif pride.
They’ll be shoutin’ an’ salutin’ to is Nibs from every side,
An’ their leathers ’ll be shinin’ an’ their spurs ’ll be like jewels.
Though we are so democratic, well, it’s Royalty as rules,
It’s not often Prindes visit us in tugs like this Renown
There’ll be some perspirin’ ’ands when Teddy Woodbine comes
ter town.
’E’ll bring a staff along o’ ’im; the blokes won’t ’arf go mad
To see their donahs smile an’ sigh an’ give them boys the glad.
The Army fer a minute will be put right in the shade,
And the Navy will push out its chest an’ wink at every maid.
There’ll be some snifty scrappin’ an’ per’aps a few may drown
Fer the glory of the race when Teddy Woodbine comes ter town.
I’m sorry fer the wimmin. Strike me pink, it’s true!
Every little Cinderella wants ter cleave ’is heart in two.
I wouldn’t be a papa to a gel wot’s got a chance
Of an invite to a party where the Prince is goin’ to dance.
The raids on Sweet Crop Cigarettes will fairly skin the town —
They know a good thing, too, on board the H.M.S. Renown.
’E’ll be asked about New Zealand, and did ’e like ’is trip;
An’ wot ’e thinks of Sydney ’Arbor will fall from every lip.
An’ dark gels that’s ’is taste will be presented by their mas,
An’ there’ll be bands an’ streamers an’ endless motor-cars,
An’ there’ll be a shakin’ ’ands wiv everyone aroun’.
P’raps there’ll be some kissin’, too, when Teddy Woodbine comes
ter town.
It’s the kids ’as will be appy. It’s the kids as this is for—
Ter keep a feelin’ in their breasts uv loyalty an’ more.
This lad stands fer the Empire, fer ’ome an’ stuff like that;
The kids ’ll be that British they’ll bust emselves, in fact.
Wot wiv cheers and songs uv welcome to the Birds on this Renown
I ve a mind to cut me ’air when Teddy Woodbine comes ter town.
An’ there’ll be a lot o’ fellows a-lyin’ in their beds
In the orspitals an’ such-like as can scarce lift up their heads.
P’raps some ’e may remember in the dog-fight out in France,
Fer ’e was a dinkum soldier when they gave ’im ’arf a chance.
So string yer colors ’igher, shout the other feller down,
We’ll go an all get tight when Teddy Woodbine comes ter town.
An though ’e’s travelled miles to ’ere an’ bin on many strands,
An’ seen the sights there was to see an’ gels uv other lands,
I’ll betcher ’arf a dollar ’e’ll enjoy ’isself as well
In giddy little Sydney as anywhere in ’ell.
So go to it, you fellers, bust the show—it’s fer the Crown—
The State forks out the oof when Teddy Woodbine comes ter
town.


? c
•li
P
Miss RITA SWALLOW, a little Rexona Girl (from a photo).
Rcxona-Every one’s Favorite
“The Nest,” Mt. Alford,
r j’ (> Rexona Co* Via Boonah, t^ueensland*
Dear Sirs, —Enclosed is a photo of my daughter Rita, who has been
washed since birth with Rexona Soap.
Wishing Rexona every success,
Very sincerely yours,
Mrs. R. SWALLOW.
REXONA SOAP—A TREAT FOR THE BATH.
A morning bath with Rexona Soap is not only a pleasure, but a health-giving
habit. The essences and juices which have made Rexona, the Rapid-healing Ointment,
a household necessity are introduced into Rexona Soap, and in your bath are
absorbed into the skin of the whole body. The result is skin health and skin
protection. When the pores have absorbed the pure aroma of the herbs embodied in
Rexona, one is protected from colds or disease. Rexona
Soap is a favorite with the most fastidious, and with
the most prudent of people. Remember Rexona Soap
is still sold at 1/- per tablet.
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
Will} do l USP PLUME?
“Because it enables me to get more
and better service out of my car.
Because it ensures easy starting,
sweet running, more miles.
That is the answer thousands of
motorists would give to the ques-
tion, “Why do you use Plume r
Plume users speak highly of the
results obtained, and our files con-
tain very flattering testimony of its
efficiency under varied conditions.
Plume users have been remarkably
successful in recent Reliability Con-
tests in several States. Full partic-
ulars can be obtained free upon
request to our nearest Branch.
Try Plume next time.
When ordering just ask for Plume
—don’t say Benzine
P 23
/ na
•3
ii
m
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Whither?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE eyes that ope can always see the
fairies;
The fairies only vanish for the blind.
The lips that sing can always charm the
fairies.
Who always loved and love the singing
kind;
When moonlight dances on the nodding
daisies
The little feet begin to stir below ;
When diamond dew bestars the haunted
places,
The Little Folk they trip it to and fro.
The World is just as full to-day o’ fairies
As ’twas when Merlin slept beside the rill ;
And Puck and Mab are just as gay and
tricksy
As when they played by ev’ry Celtic hill;
But dust o’ dross is in the winking eyelids
Of half the folk who fill the smoky town,
And Ariel flits beyond our blinking, shy
lids •
To where no sordid net can pin him down.
The dwarfs and gnomes who love the little
fairies
Are just as thick to-day in cave and mine;
You hear their picks go ringing in the
moonlight
If but you know the magic and the sign ;
They pile the precious stones and ingots
golden,
They sing their delving songs and never
grieve,
And all they ask for all their treasure
olden
Is just—that we remember and believe.
’Tis but the vision clear to-day that rare is,
The witch’ry’s all alive to charm us yet;
And ev’ry vale can show the hidden fairies
To them who will not wander and forget;
We wonder where the wee folk have de-
parted
Because they will not nest in Bottom’s
ears,
And all the while gay Puck the laughing-
hearted
Behind the garden roses slily peers.
Perchance some joyous eve that free of care
is
May lead us to the haunted glen again,
May show us sweet Titania, Queen of
Fairies,
Attended by her dainty laughing train ;
And in the night—a night of Stars and
Glamor—
We yet may track the hill-folk to their
home,
And hear, above the noise of pick and ham-
mer,
The quaint and piercing work-song of the
Gnome.
Queensland.
P. AIREY.
Doolan’s Inheritance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
4t T F a thing’s coming to you, bad or good,
big or little, whatever it may be,”
said Casey, lying back in his deck-
chair under the pines and looking out on
the moonlit sea ; “it’ll get you somehow or
another, dodge it as you will. Fate, or
Fortune, or Luck, or whatever you like to
call it, follows a man like a black-tracker,
never letting up on him, day or night, till
the right moment arrives. Then it either
pins him down, nose to ground, or puts him
where the wine flows and the cakes are
abundant. There's Doolan, for instance.”
He puffed at his pipe for a second or two
in an effort to rekindle it, but, finding it
dead and done for, knocked the ashes out
of it and placed it in his pocket.
“Doolan,” he mused; “did you ever hear
of Doolan?”
I told him that during my sojourn in
many places I had met various Doolans,
and I went on to describe their characteris-
tics, but he stopped me with an upheld hand.
“There’s Doolans and Doolans,” he said;
“but the man I’ve in mind was a Doolan by
himself. He was a man to remember —big,
hopeful, joyous, unforgettable.”
Casey turned towards me, bis round, good-
natured face half in shine and half in
shadow.
“It was at Bambaloo that I met him. I
was running a paper at the time, a four-
page weekly for a man named Martin, who
owned not only the paper I ran, but the
hotel and the store and half the town as
well. This Martin was a little man with
big whiskers, and all the shrewdness of
County Clare (God save us!) in his eyes.
He had neither chick nor child nor wife
nor relative that he knew of, and I doubt
(if the hearts of those who professed to
care for him were bared to the buff) whether
he had a friend in the whole countryside.
Nevertheless, he was not a lonely man, nor
a proud man. This much I’ll say for him,
no matter who you might be, he was always
ready to drink at your expense.
“The office of the Bambaloo Akgus was
a tin-and-timber memento of the past, thrown
together by Martin in the heyday of his
youth, and left from its delicate infancy to
the tender mercies of wind and weather. It
was hessianed off into two compartments,
and behind it was a shed in which the paper
was set up and machined, the compositor
and the machinist being housed in one stout
body with hairy arms and a brisk love of
beer. In one compartment of the office-
proper, with paste and scissors, pen and ink,
and a pipe to make me happy, I sat and
sweated and toiled. In the other compart-
ment, keeping Martin’s books and looking
after’ his correspondence, reigned Elsie
Parish, the prettiest girl that ever was.’
Casey paused, was silent a minute, and
then continued: “For heat and dust and
flies and drudgery that life I led in Bam-
baloo was the hopeless limit; but with that
girl coming into my office every now and
again, with the bright word on her tongue
and the crinkly curl on her forehead and
the smile in her eyes, it was the best life
J’vg ever known. But it*s Dool&ii 1 m tell"
ing you about. . T u a
“He drifted in one day, just as 1 had
finished the last line of the last proof, and
lay back in my chair offering up the pipe
of thanksgiving. A tall fellow, nigh on oft.
in height, he had to stoop in the doorway ol
the office, but when he was once in he
stood up straight as a soldier.
“ ‘Mr. Casey 7’ he inquired, and, nodding,
I looked him over.
“His coat was worn, his pants were
frayed, his boots were old; but, in spite ot
these evidences to the contrary, there flowed
from him, from his eyes, from his w;ay ol
carrying himself, from the tone in which he
spoke, a something that told of riches, of
abundance, of great things to befall.
“ ‘Take a seat,’ I said. There was only
one vacant seat in the office, and he took it.
“‘What can I do for you?’ I asked.
“He bent forward, smiling largely, genially.
“ ‘Much,’ he answered, ‘you can employ
U l ®-’ „ i-l T
“I took my pipe out of my month. 1
stared at him. 1 was astonished that any-
one should come to me with such a request.
“ ‘I don’t see that I can,’ I answered. The
compositor is still hale and X
myself am scarcely dead yet.’
“Again he smiled.
* “ ‘But you need a canvasser, he said.
‘Surely you need someone to enrich you i
“ ‘I do,’ I answered ; ‘but I don’t see how
a canvasser is going to do it.’
“ ‘But I do,’ he said with a fine optimism
ringing from his tones, ‘I see possibilities. I
see potentialities. I see measureless
horizons. All I ask is for a chance to
exploit, to develop them. Come, say that
you are willing.’
“Before I knew what he would be at he
had leant across the table and seized my
hand in his, wringing it warmly.
“ ‘I knew,’ said he, ‘as soon as I struck
Bambaloo that I was on the trail of Fortune.
Shake again, and let us go down to that
fine fellow Martin and seal the contract
with a drink.’
“ ‘Martin !’ I ventured, but got no further.
“‘I have seen him,’ he said. ‘He is in
love with the idea.’
“We went to Martin’s and had not only
one drink, but many drinks, together. Never
had I seen Martin open his heart to any-
one as he did then and there to Doolan.
Now, with head thrown back and body
straightened up, he told us tales of the days
when he followed the hounds over bush and
briar in the Ould Dart. And now, with
wet eyes, he enlarged on the sorrowful fact
that he was alone in the world, with none
to care for him.
“•‘Ah,’ said he, ‘to thmk of Clare and the
ould home, and me little sister Aileen that
ran away to Queensland and was never heaid
of and the hounds in the kennels and the
horses in the stables, puts the thirst in me
throat and makes the tears run down me
forehead.’
“I never knew a man so much in need of
sympathy as Martin seemed to be, nor had
I ever met a man with so much sympathy
to spare as Doolan had. As the hours wore
on their conversation became intimate, pri-
vate, something from which I found myself
excluded. Metaphorically they fell upon
one another’s necks, like men who had come
from the far ends of the earth to meet each
other. Never had Bambaloo seen the like
of it.
“As I turned to leave the bar Elsie Parish,
trim and dainty, with the stray curl just
where it suited best, came in from the street.
“ ‘Elsie, me dear,’ said Martin, let me
introduce you to me friend Mr. Doolan.
Mr. .Doolan, this me darter, me adopted
darter.’
“Doolan turned and looked intp the girl’s
eyes. Then they shook hands....and that
was the beginning.”
Casey paused and turned away from me,
his head half in shadow, half in shine. In
the pause I heard the waves breaking on the
mile-long beach. It seemed as though the
sea had been waiting for an occasion like
this to make itself heard.
“Doolan stayed that night at Martin’s—
stayed there till this story of him finishes. He
went to work next day big with optimism
and equipped with fine propositions. The
country round about was given over to the
dairying industry, and offered little scope
for ‘his talents. Still the things he did
were wonderful. Even the dairy-farmer
has a soft place in his heart, and to Doolan
Was given the gift of finding it. Before
he had been 24 hours in the district he had
the biographies of three pet cows to write
up. From the manner in which he tackled
it, his eyes shining, his face happy, I could
see that it was work after his own heart.
It was fine reading that he gave the folk of
Bambaloo in the columns of the Argus.
Never had there been such a cow as Branni-
gan’s Daisy, the daintiest creature that ever
ate green grass. Sykes’s Betsy, from the
ranks of common, plebeian cowhood, he up-
lifted with splendid sentences, running over
a column and a half of space, to the shining
ranks of bovine aristocracy. Appreciative
farmers, their faces flushed, their chests
swelling with pride and importance, made
much of him and cried his praises far and
wide.
“Of an evening he sat on the hotel balcony
with Elsie and others, and talked to all
and sundry. As time wore on he sat and
talked with her alone, the others finding
things to interest them elsewhere. I was
one of the others.
“For three months or so Doolan pros-
pered, and then the tide turned. It turned
mainly because he had not been judicious in
his use of adjectives in describing the charac-
ters of the animals he wrote about. To say
that Johnson’s poley heifer, for instance,
was the best-looking milker in the district
pleased Johnson mightily but enraged John-
son’s rivals. As a result of Doolan’s eulo-
gies, where peace and kindly neighborliness
had been, strife and contention and bitter
words began, and some men were heard to
curse Doolan and others to sneer at him.
(Continued on next page.)


e Task
ry
M
m
m
m
Ml
W/i
Every Picture
Tells a Story”
a Painful Effort.
At all times of the year there are many odd jobs about the
home that every well man likes to do. But no man or
woman with a bad back enjoys doing anything. There’s
surely something wrong when every day brings morning
lameness, sharp pains when lifting, and a dull, tired state.
Likely it s kidney weakness. Don’t neglect it. It’s easily
corrected at first, but delay may encourage gravel, dropsy
or dangerous kidney disease. If your back aches and kid-
neys are disordered, get Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This successful remedy is recommended so strongly by
people you know that you can use it with real confidence.
SYDNEY PROOF FOR SYDNEY PEOPLE.
PERMANENT RELIEF BY DOAN’S PILLS.
Mrs. Emily Osborne, 9a Tebbutt Street, Leichhardt, Sydney,
says: Some years ago I had a very bad attack of disordered kidneys,
and as a result suffered agony from backache and rheumatic pains
all over my body. I was often so bad that I could hardly get about
the house, every movement giving me increased pain. My rest at
night was very disturbed, as it was impossible for me to lie in one
position for any length of time, owing to the nagging pain in my
back. My ankles and arms swelled a good deal, and were very painful
if I touched them. I had no energy for anything, and was really far
from well. Doan’s Backache Ividney Pills were recommended to me,
and after taking a course of these grand pills I was completely cured.
It is two years since I was cured, and 1 have had no return of kidney
trouble since.”
Eight years later Mrs. Osborne says:—“Ten years have elapsed
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, and I am still well, a
fact that speaks volumes for this splendid remedy.”
Niddrie Cowper Street, Harris Park, Parramatta,
w/m-o’ h ,ri-i ieiG d, terribly With my kidneys. The worst symptoms
with af , K rheumatism. Sometimes I would be doubled up
pjSj v ,?. v i o , i ; ! nd Ur S able 1° move - Hearing Doan’s Backache Kidney
k dnov T i - of as a cure for all 511 « arising from disordered
kidney.. I decided to try them, so got some at once. They acted
splendidly, a few bottles banishing the backache and rheumatism
these 6 nil gm ?f com |; )k : to relief from pain. Previous to taking
these pills I would often sit down and it would be fully ten minutes
befoie I could get up again to a standing position. I was unable to
stoop to lace my boots m the morning, and my wife had to do it for
me. I am quite free of backache and rheumatism now, and I con-
to gfve up my bTllet ’’° an ® Backache Kidn9y Pills 1 would have had
b-kM =£ Sey^rel
S e spS n hSh.» g0 * 1 never suffer with my kidDeys now ’- d a -
d
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Poster-McClellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
“When things came to this pass, I felt
sorry for Doolan and sorry for Elsie, and
maybe,” said Casey with a shrug. “I felt
sorry for myself.
“He came into the office one afternoon,
tired and dusty, but with the optimism still
big in his eyes.
“ ‘Casey,’ he said, taking a locket with the
photograph of a girl’s face encased in it,
and handing it to me, ‘tell me, does this
remind you of anyone?’
“I took it to the window and scrutinised
it.
“ ‘lt reminds me something of Elsie.’
“•Just so,’ he said, ‘her way of wearing
her hair.’
“ ‘Who is it?’ I asked.
“He looked up at me, his eyes softening.
“ ‘My mother.’ he said, ‘when she was a
girl.’
“I said nothing then, but waited for him
to speak, because I felt that he wanted to
talk about something that lay close to his
heart, and that, in showing me the photo-
graph, he had sought to delicately introduce
the theme.
“ ‘I came here to make good,’ he said, ‘and
I’ve failed. I’m not crying about it. It was
a chance, but the odds were against me.
Next time the odds may be with me, and I
won’t fail. But to find that next time I'll
have to leave Bambaloo, and I don’t want to
leave Bambaloo. You know what’s bothering
me, Casey, without me having to put it in
words.’
“I nodded. ‘Elsie,’ I said.
“ ‘You’ve got it,’ he replied. ‘l’m hit
hard, but she’s given me the big hope, and
if it wasn’t for Martin, who won’t hear of
her marrying a man who isn’t at least half as
rich as himself, I’d be happy as the day’s
long.
‘“Have you spoken to Martin, then?’
“ ‘I have, and he turned me down with a
quiz in his eye that brought home to me the
vast emptiness of my pockets, and the hope-
lessness of doing anything .with him un-
assisted by a stalwart bank-account. He
spoke of a fellow named Morgan, a prosperous
dairy-farmer, who used to be all right with
Elsie till I came along. Since then, he
.said, she has given him nothing but the
frozen word and the upturned nose. He’d
like to see her married to Morgan, or to
someone with a pile behind him, and I don’t
blame him. Elsie is the only one in the
world he cares for, and I think he cares for
her a lot. He had a sister in Ireland, that
left home for Queensland when she was in
her ’teens, and he’s always talking of her,
and somehow or other I think Elsie stands
in that sister’s stead in his affections.
And so, taken altogether,’ he concluded
with a smile and a shrug, ‘the world isn’t
half as bright as it might be.’
“He rose - then, straightened himself and
turned to go.
“ ‘Here is a letter,’ I said. ‘lt’s been
lying here since yesterday.’
“He took the letter, and with a nod passed
out of the office. I put my pipe away.
Somehow it had grown tasteless; somehow
the world seemed wrong, more wrong than
ever it had seemed before. And then 1 heard
him coming back, his feet moving in a long,
quick stride.
“As he entered the door I saw that some-
thing had happened to excite him. His
face was flushed, his eyes flashed, in his
hands he held a typed sheet of paper.
“ ‘Casey,” he cried, ‘Casey, for the love of
God, read that!’
“I took the letter and read it through,
and then I put out my hand and took his,
and told him that he deserved all the luck
that was coming to him.
“It was a letter from Sharkey and
Sharkey, solicitors, informing him that his
uncle Michael Doolan, of New York, tug
proprietor and ship owner, had died intes-
tate some months before, and that the
estate would be divided among the surviving
relatives of the deceased.
“ ‘He was my father’s brother,’ said
Doolan, ‘a millionaire, my father used to say
he was. O Lord, the strange things that
happen!’
“After that, for a full month or so, there
was no man living that looked on life with
more joyful eyes than Doolan. It was
fine to hear him tell of the big things he
would do when he came into his inheritance.
Fortune had come to him in Bambaloo, and
as a result he would put Bambaloo on the
map, put it there in gilded lines. As for
me, I might have anything that appealed to
me.
“Then, two months after the arrival‘of
the first, a second fetter came to him. It
also was from Sharkey and Sharkey.
“He read it, and then, looking over the
top of it, he said to me: ‘They’ve found an-
other Doolan, second cousin or something.
They hunted him down at Kimberley.’
“ -‘He’ll share the estate with you, of
course?’
“ ‘Of course. But where it’s a matter
of millions I’m not greedy. Maybe he
wants it as badly as I do.’
“He was the big man in Bambaloo, sought
and smiled upon wherever he went. Once
more, all-in-all with Martin, he openly re-
ferred in the old man’s presence to his com-
ing marriage with Elsie. It would be a
big affair, and the town would be glad of
it. Then came another letter, which, on
reading, he also handed to me, saying, with
the nearest approach to bitterness that I
ever heard in his voice: ‘They’ve found
more Doolans —a half-dozen this time.’
“ ‘Never mind.’ I comforted him, ‘remem-
ber there are millions to divide.’
“ ‘That’s so.’ he replied, brightening up,
‘the more the merrier—only the more
mustn’t become a multitude.’
“I left Bambaloo for a few weeks, put-
ting him in my place as editor of the
Argus, and when I returned I found him
sitting in my chair reading a letter, a look
half-serious, half-amused in his eyes.
“ ‘More Doolans,’ he said ; ‘Dooians every-
where. The American branch of the family
this time. They range from Alaska ;to
Patagonia—women, men, spinsters, bache-
lors, babes in arms. Hell. Casey, the Doo-
lans seem to own the world! ' When the
Lord made man he named him Doolan.’
“I laughed, although I saw that it was not
altogether a laughing matter with him.
“ "They do seem to be plentiful,’ I ven-
tured.
" ‘They do,' he said. ‘They more than
seem: they are. But I’ll not curse their
abundancy. Maybe, after all, when the
divvy’s made there’ll be a crust left for
me.’
“After that, though he still kept a bright
eye for the world to look into, I noticed
that his manner had lost something of its
first fine optimism. From Elsie, too, per-
haps because she guessed that all was not
going well with him, some of’ the young
gaiety that his good news had brought to
her had vanished. As I watched her, it
seemed to me that for her the laughter had
gone out of little things.
“Then came another letter, and, as I
watched Doolan reading it, I saw by the
look in his eyes that something startling
had happened.
“He laughed, he rose, in his hand he held
a postal note.
“ ‘Congratulate me, Casey,’ he said, hold-
ing the note so that I might read it. ‘My
inheritance has come.’
“I glanced at the note and then looked
into Doolan’s eyes, and then we laughed
out together. He had inherited four and
sixpence!
“He went away then to break the good
news to Martin, and a while after I fol-
lowed him.
“In the bar stood Martin, his little eyes
fierce with the after-light of battle.
“ ‘l’ve settled that frin'd of yours,’ he
said—‘him and his damned nresumption. and
his millions that turned to four and six-
pence.’
“Just at that moment Doolan came into
the bar, his portmanteau in his hand. His
face was white, his eyes stern.
“ ‘Martin,’ he said, ‘l’m going now. but
I’m coming back some day. I’m coming
back to make that girl my wife.’
“Martin thrust out his chin, his eyes
fierce with anger.
“ ‘You are !’ said he. ‘Talk’s big!’
“ ‘Yes.’ said Doolan, drawing himself up
to his full height, ‘and I’m big, too. But
before I go I’m going to ask a favor of
you. Last night I lost a locket —somewhere
in this house, I think. If’
“But he got no further. ‘This —was it
this locket?’ whispered Martin in a queer
voice, holding out his hand to show the
trinket in it.
“ ‘Yes,’ said Doolan, reaching forward to
retrieve it.
“ ‘Stay,’ said Martin, still speaking in
hushed tones. ‘Tell me, whose face is this?’
“ ‘My mother’s.’
“ ‘God in Heaven, ’tis strange, ’tis
strange! ’Tis my little sister Aileen’s—her
that went from Ireland when she was a
child !’
“He stepped forward, and, with both arms
out-thrust, gripped Doolan by the shoulders.
“ ‘Aileen’s son!’ he said. ‘Don’t leave
me !’ ”
Casey sought for his pipe and lit it. Then
necrose, yawned and thrust his chair back.
“But, Elsie!” I said—“Doolan married
her, I suppose.”
Casey turned his head away, looking to-
wards the wet rocks that gleamed in the
moonlight. His voice came to me as from
a distance. “He did.”
RODERIC QUINN.
The Death Dance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f RANGED with the feast-reek and
I the wine,
Dancing the dance that is divine,
I saw her first and, fated, fell
Beneath her body’s impious spell—
The woman orphaned and alone
And barren as the thunder-stone.
The tapers turned a tawny red
On the coiled glory of her head,
And sharded silver round her thighs
Gleamed like her long Egyptian eyes
That answered, with their snake-like fire,
My vibrant message of desire.
White and taut-breasted as a drum,
Breathing a luring laudanum,
Like sojpe rich grove within a vale,
The Vintner of the Nightingale,
She traced weird figures like a scroll
Upon my palpitating soul.
Shame take me I so failed to see
The import of my lechery,
Until the hour of lust was spent
Which seemed to me a sacrament,
With fair Salome, in Christ’s stead.
Dancing the Death Dance for my head!
That night, when I went in to her
And lay down with my paramour,
The low street-echoes reached the bed
Like footfalls wending to the dead,
And something in her lips’ close cling
Repelled me like an adder sting.
On pillar and on portico
Day dawned deliberate and slow;,
The dawn that with inquiring eyes
Sifts the scant Truth from rotting Lies;
And morning, echoed from the street,
Seemed the return of those doomed feet.
Then found I lying by my side
A strange monstrosity for bride;
Her hands were gnarled, her hair was grey.
Her eyes retreating far away,
Cruel and cunning, blinked and peered
Above the cheeks the paint still smeared.
The breath came fitfully and sour
Through lips like a polluted flower;
The skull, the cheek-bones and the chin
Were features of a harlequin ;
And Love mis-spent turned every sense
Sick like a spawning pestilence.
’Twas then I saw Love’s noble head
Above an altar wrecked and red ;
’Twas then I saw a flame of Tyre
Burn up the off’ring of Desire,
And heard the curse that still is hurled
Against the man who weds the World.
MAOEILAND.
DARIUS.


1
:
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office- 93-107 Feathers ton Street, Wellington.
Viotorian Offioe—oB Queen Street, Melbourne.
WEST, N. S. WALES
da
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wo Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ MALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68* PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly — an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
$
<
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins 3t„ Melbourne.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts are required. The man whp is de-
spondent or irritable always fai.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and st
the day with a bright
Cheerful face. Both
your health and
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young—purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dost—Small Prloo.
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
da
MOTOR LOHHIEf
J
rZ~>,
k
ifet
The Secret of Denby Success.
A THOUSAND and one details, only
apparent as the user better knows his
lorry, contribute to Denby superiority.
Most ton-miles per gallon is fast becoming a
slogan of an army of Denby users in every
clime under as many different haulage
conditions.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2.£, 3j, 5 tons. •
THE HALLIDAY ENGINEERING CO.,
’Phone: City 4399. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
Tkt jVEedicine for Yon
must possess certain advantages without which it would hardly commend
itself to your confidence. It must be perfectly safe under all circumstances.
It must be mild in its action but none the less efficacious on that account.
It must be, par excellence, a family medicine, that is, suitable for
old and young of both sexes and be freely obtainable in town or
country. It must be easy to take, regular and reliable in its curative
effects and possess a great and genuine record of success. Such a
medicine is Beecham’s Pills which still hold, and will continue to hold,
the highest position in popular favour. It is very interesting, after so
many years service, still to find Beecham’s Pills “at the top of the
tree ” among digestive remedies. They arc everywhere acknowledged
to be unrivalled in the treatment of such troubles as biliousness, sick
headache, heartburn, constipation, giddiness, failing appetite, poorness
of blood and a general run-down condition. If you are in any way a
sufferer from digestive ailments take
Beccham’s Pill;
BEECHAM'S PILLS are specially suitable for females ol all ages*
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10}d (36 pills). 1/1} (56 pill.) & 2/9 (168 pills
da
ffeminpori
38 & 44 Cal. Rifles
There is a demand among sportsmen for a
rifle of medium size and price, yet with the
requisite shocking power to effectually “stop’*
the game. The Remington eleven-shot re-
peater —38-40 and 44 calibre —is invaluable
for general use. Accurate up to 300 yards.
da
Shooting fS|
Inquire of your dealer, who
can order for you. Cat-
alogue* free upon request.
dada
C-1
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D> B. Bryant, Australian Representative Box €B6, G.P.0., Melbourne
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to self. •
Personal Attention.
Offioe-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
a
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HOTEL
METROPDLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
eorge hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Aimtralia;
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurle*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CUKES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
12/6
Post Free
ii'iikt.'ifkiMiEn
(Patented)
'n »
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
a
Ihe simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


y,
-HHP *"* 1
- '
-
-
-
'
K‘SS»•-. -i
.
,: -
//V
• , &■
■'-> -V'
.
* .J\
*0
FINE
€c/pJ
COT LA
m.
SA
D
a*
D/l'ipj
.
<T>
3k.S
easonaoie Joas
O OUP
D i ocfer ' C Pri nee
God Hess Kim!
N°IO was the only Whisk/ used at the Investiture of HR H
the Prince of Wales, at Carnarvon Gtsrte, 15 th July. 1911.
