

Gold {Seal
Art-Rug's
There is One Grade Only
GOLD SEAL
Easy to
Buy,
Lay,
Clean.
ART-RUGS AMD
FLOOR-COVERIHGt
GOLD SEA?
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
OR TOUR MONfeY WILL
BE REFUNDED
A DAMP CLOTH WIU REMOVE
SEAL IF IT STICKS TO GOODS
The Rug'
for
Every
Room.
A Positive and Definite Assurance of Satisfaction.
\ ' l r C v/ f v ;*;'' •< i
To be Had of First-class
Furniture Warehouses, and
all beading' Retail Stores.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2117.
Thursday, September 9, 1920«
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N-S-W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the new library catalogue
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to anv address on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
USE
•WANE*.
****>»•“
SWAN
INK
>
USE
Swan In*
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed , Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
NOW READY!
William Sutherland
a Biography, by W. A. OSBORNE, M. 8., D.Scw Pro-
fessor of Physiology in the University of Melbourne,
Illustrated with Three Portraits and a Reproduction
in -color of a Water-Color Sketch.
Here is a book which stands out from the entire
range of Australian Biography. Professor Osborne
has given us a true human document- the life of a
man whose noble idealism and dedication to truth
constitute an example to the youth of this and
every other land.
William- Sutherland was one of our remarkable
men, and this biography will not only explain his
great reputation as a scientist, - but it will also
enable even those who knew hioi to hiive a finer
understanding of his character and lovable qualities.
Unlike most, biographies, it will prove of interest
to even the casual reader. It is the story of a bril-
liant member of a brilliant family, and is an invalu-
able addition to Australian annals.
- SOME REVIEW'S:
ls a monograph of great charm and com-
pelling interest. It was a singularly beautiful life,
and the story of it is here fittingly told.
Osborne has played the part of the biographer with
sympathetic insight and with literary skill. His
subject was eminently worthy of the tribute this
volume renders him, — The Age.
Many students outside Melbourne University will
welcome this biography. Sutherland was a physicist
of great distinction who devoted himself to original
work in face of a great deal of discouragement and
with very limited means. Professor Osborne has
done his work admirably. —Daily Telegraph.
Professor Osborne has provided a worthy memorial
of a brilliant and lovable personality.— Observer.
This is a hook you should have.
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW.
Price 7s. 6d. From all good booksellers.
Published by The Lothian Book Publishing Co, Pty.
Ltd., The Rialto, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club antl Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments' may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
The
J3ritish.
m
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Every part of the STANDARD LIGHT CAR is built
not only to perform its own particular function well,
but’ to harmonise perfectly with every OTHER part
of the car.
Send your inquiry for early delivery tc^Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
af
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
U
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and the
Prevention of Consumption.
©
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Archibald Marshall
Sympathy is the greatest of the essential
qualities of permanence in letters; in bucolic
letters it is the essential. “The Deserted
Village, Great Expectations,” “The Cax-
tons, Tristram Shandy”— at the heart- nf
f| ieSe a ?.^ lors sympathy is more potent
than their literary skill. Or perhaps l it is
J t- he . work is so sympathetic
f.?] d tne technical details are Completely
hidden. A branch of modern bucolic letters
“,£ e ffPWj aa « not too exact squire pic-
tiues of John Galsworthy, Hugh Benson
and a good many other English writers with
opportunities of studying “county .society”
at first band. . In the case of these men, as
in that of lieldmg and Smollett and the
latheis of fiction, their pictures are back-
ground lor the stories—well done, of course,
but quite subordinate to the main interest.
1 "obably the age of the squire and the
squireen, the dower-house and the “family
living is passing from England now. Since
the I rench Revolution it has been going
slowly, and the Great War has hurried it to-
wards obhvmn. The value of the class per
se had gone long, before the war, and the
wai took away its last excuse for existence.
The possibility of its death puts the novels
of Archibald Marshall into an historical
importance far removed from their hereto-
fore rather narrow literary consideration.
Mai shall s best work is solely of the squire
and the , squire s house, his family, his ser-
vants, his pheasants, his asinine but, in
Marshall s hands, attractive idiosyncrasies,
his gross rudeness of manner and his in-
herent, unbreakable courtesy of mind, his
childish littleness and his occasional sub-
! u > Ht y- Not only does the author get right
? a *° r}r' A coun ty” atmosphere and make, in
,}f,. baton books, his “Roding Rectory,”
Afiington Abbey and the others, complete
and detailed records of his section of the
feudal system, but he makes the books also
visions of his characters’ lives- —visions
limited entirely by the boundaries of their
county lives, but within that area perfect
representations. When the area is trodden
over by the other equal inheritors of the
earth, it seems to me that Marshall’s books
will make the best complete records of the
curiously long-lasting artificiality of the
megalomaniacal squire apd his order.
In his own way (certainly in no other way
—trom his angle there isn’t any other way)
the squire has something of a case. But
it is always a negative something—the sort
ot something which at the root is only pre-
cedent Galsworthy, in, I think, “The Coun-
+ i j USe ’” b as a scene of the squire
tumbled out of bed to help in extinguishing
the burning hayricks of a small servant-
tamer. The intention is to convey the idea,
not that this is the working duty of the
squire, but one of the essentially charit-
able things that may come into his day or
night. It is apparently a holy and whole-
some thought that the squire will do this for
lus inferior. That is the sort of negative
tiung I mean. There is nothing admirable
in the squire slipping out of his warm bed
m the middle of the nght to help a man in
trouble; it is bad luck for everybody, that
is all. But precedent has knocked the bot-
torn out of the truth of the matter;.so the
squire, running around in his pyjamas, plays
‘lead,” not the man whose year’s hay is
going up in smoke. Marshall dodges that
type-of thing, and keeps to the main lines
of liis story of the gentle, cultivated, color-
less people who have inhabited these acres
for eight or nine centuries. The 800 or 900
years are their only claim to consideration;
in their perfection of good form, it is the
only claim they make themselves.. Marshall
doesn’t attempt Galsworthy’s impossible task
of making any of their'deeds or of their few
thoughts significant. In complete accord and
sympathy with them, he doesn’t give them
any heights beyond their reach. Knowing
at first hand that the end of their reach
upward and outward is good form, he lets
it go at that, and writes them as they are.
The result is a series of practically perfect
documents of the manners and customs of
the squirearchy.
Marshall’s books are steadily popular,
more, one suspects, by reason of their tone
and environment than of their real literary
value. Anthony Trollope is the nearest
approach to his method—a mild and ambling
story of slow and rather stupid people who
nowhere touch any conflict or issue with
raw life in its possible hard-up aspect. That
is the lot—comfort and an ordered colorless
life; birth, some meals, some soldiering,
shooting, and golf; some decorous dreams
and pains; and death. There is always a
green lawn, always old silver glittering on
a table under an old tree; always a big
house full of memories and servants; and
always some narrow, conscientious man who
has sat on the stolen throne of the country-
side for 800 years. To Jhis man every char-
acter in the pleasant, smoothly-mannered
story is bodily and mentally a slave —hap-
pily and eagerly a , slave. Marshall is not
concerned with the rights and wrongs of the
system; it is there, and he writes it, easily
and fluently and well. Nobody has yet writ-
ten it quite as well. Soon, I believe, there
will be no chance of writing it at all. Which
puts Archibald Marshall for me beside Giss-
ing and Richard Jfiffefies in the company of
the perfect recorders of their limited impres-
sions.
HILARY LOFTING.
MILTON and Newbolt
Behind all our modern English poetry are
the echoes of a magic voice—a voice that
roars like the stormy sea, breaks into great
organ harmonies and then again is sjhrill and
clear as a shepherd’s pipe in sorte fabled
Arcady. Recently Henry Newbolt set out
to demolish Milton. That was unwise of
Newbolt, for abolishing Milton is a process
something like destroying poetry itself ; and
Milton is no friendless Puritan with a little
elect following, but a great popular singer
who has champions in the most unexpected
places. Five different times have I known
boys who had developed little feeling for
other poetry absorbed and delighte_d in the
massive splendor of “Paradise Lost.’ I met
Milton .when I was twelve years old ; I could
repeat whole books of the big epic for sheer
love when I was fourteen ;’ hundreds of the
lines have never left me. This is no unique
experience; for it is exactly paralleled by
the case of a very well known Australian
University maif who has given us some line
poetry, but not enough of it. We knew
“Paradise Lost,” he and I, through and
through and in and out, before we discovered
“Lyeidas” or “L’Allegro.” And that is just
where Newbolt makes his big mistake. He
is too old; and absurd as it may seem to the
very old, John Milton is a boy’s poet and
“Paradise Lost” is a boy’s book. It was the
very young Keats on whom, most of all
English writers, Milton's mantle fell. It
was the very young Keats in his youngest
years of effort who made and published his
vow that the life and work of Milton should
make the epic poem that was to crown his
own life. Perhaps there is a true epic in
the theme. The great poet and tremendous
scholar who gave his eyes to the cause of
his country must always look splendidly
heroic ; but it is the work and not the writer’s
story which gets, to th'e heart of the boy.
There are the tremendous pictures, the
splendid adventures, the thunders of the war
between Heaven and Hell; and there is the
voice, unlike all other voices, that stirs a
mental pulse in every phrase. What more
should a boy seek? And this epic singer who
can still reach even five boys, can he be
dead? He is very’living to me; more so in
many ways than Shakspeare and the rest.
I find Milton’s work a curious test of
literary honesty. Those to whom he is vital
are generally vital in their own work. True,
he has his own dishonesties. He invented
some things in nature which nature never"
did; he knew more of book's than green fields.
But in his mass he is always sincere; there
is no passionate truth in any song that burns
more clearly than his. The greatest epic and
the sweetest lyric singer of all! Only super-
latives can do him the scantiest justice. And
what a foolish thing it is to speak any
apology of him, after all ! State tjie bare
fact: Newbolt does not think much of “Para-
dise Lost” ! All years, gods, archangels,
principalities and powers break into laughter
at the relative sizes of the opinion and the
theme.
D. M. W.
The Nuisance Called Padding
Literary “padding doesn’t exist,” “Alan
B.” says (Red Page 19/S/’2O). One might
as, well pretend that if C. Dickens wore a
young man in our own times his “copy” would
not be scandalously cut by the modern Sub-
editor. Padding begins when the author has
made the impression lie seeks and then pro-
ceeds to labor his business. '•
When the author observes the rules of his
game, he conceives his idea, digests it,
a mental bath in it, then sets out to express
it. He knows in his mind what he is seek-
ing to do, and he continues to perform at
his typewriter' until he feels that he has
transferred his idea in its full force of
vitality and pulsating strength to his reader.
Then he shuts down. Whether his book is
long or short is not a consideration at all.
But when he enters into irrelevancies, or
pauses longer than he need over the full and
adequate expression of his plot, then he is
flagrantly and unashamedly padding.
“Alan B.” is on safe ground when he
mentions Meredith, Hardy and the author
of “Mr. Britling” as examples of “padding”
that is not padding. The minds of authors
of that order, though they may spread their
novels over volumes, shrink from the
irrelevancies that are padding, as every well-
conducted mind naturally does. I admit such
men as Fielding and Richardson were big
litbrarily and were gross offenders; but they
made no attempt to disguise the fact of their
irrelevancies ; and their particular brand was
a highly specialised product that delighted
the readers of their time. Dickens dodges
indictment, because we are on the subject of
padding in novels, and Dickens wrote only
one novel, “The Tale of Two Cities,” in
which we are unable to discover a vestige of
padding. His other works were highly
entertaining “revues” —the same performers
passing on and off the stage with no set
purpose hut to entertain. They were not
novels as we understand the term to-day.
But if Dickens were to be arraigned in re-
spect of all his works on charges of padding,
only as to “David Copperfield” and “The
Tale” would he be able to plead innocence.
Even while we accept the idea that Dickens
had no presumptions to constructing the
accepted story, it is evident • that in many
places in most of his books he padded
stolidly.
Padding is not to be assumed from length.
Stevenson is the model of word economy in
the writing of novels. Were Wells or Arnold
Bennett to attempt the expression of some of
Stevenson’s yarns, they might produce works.
twice as long ; yet probably they could not be
arrested even on suspicion of perpetrating
the inartistic crime of padding. It is merely
that authorial methods differ. You might
prefer Stevenson’s studied economy to the
casual manner of the more wordy, but
neither is guilty of padding.
To the big brains, to pad is impossible.
That may explain why “Alan B.” did not
select the Garvices, the Ethel Dells or the
Corellis in support of his argument that of
padding their ain’t no sich thing.
C. F. C.
Romance—German and European
In the days when Rome was so great that
her citizens grew too proud to be careful, a
dangerous race of savages escaped from the
German forests and turned back the hands
on the clock in a violent anti-European
fashion. Goth, Ostro-Goth. Vandal, Alan,
Frank, Lombard, Visi-Goth, Saxon, Norman
and Teutonic knighthood, they were all much
the same in make and shape; and for more
than a dozen centuries they were owners,
masters and destroyers of Western Europe.
Then the people began to assert themselves;
which means that the European idea began
to triumph again. But the great Germanic
(Continued on page 24.)


use
l ®%-«iTpTTiVnfi 1} If! j
\ lriW:.W4Uu | ii'. t ■ w:
- 4A' v \
-•' V y \ £ - :*®?^
-- v "
X : m£* * -»4^
IK
Iv •.*
4^
P-
t T?S
HV
D3oB.—Neatly-cut Coat
and Skirt, carried out
in Bengaline Poplin.
Sets of miniature tucks en-
hance the panel pockets.
Black, Grey or Putty.
PRICE 79/6
DBO5/s. —Serviceable One-
piece Frock in Ben-
galine Poplin, vestee and
emplacements on sleeves of
contrasting shade, Putty,
Rose, Mastic, Grey, Navy
or Black.
PRICE 77/6
D 317. —Well-d esigned
Coat and Skirt in Gabar-
dine, miniature tucked
panel, trimmed self stitch-
ing and pearl buttons.
Cream or Nigger.
PRICE . . £5/19/6
D33l.—Useful Coat and
Skirt in Gabardine,
panel pockets stitched con-
trasting shades, finished
self buttons. Black, Grey,
Brown or Fawn.
PRICE 63/-
DBO3/2. —Smart One-piece Frock in Poplin, revers extend-
ing to the waist line, back and front. New Pannier Skirt.
Dark Brown, Mole, Navy or Black.
PRICE 67/6
Springtime Displays
at ANTHONY HORDERNS' have
unfurled in all their winsome glory.
QS&f.
So
o°o
Zs
RIGINALITY and charm in
line, color and design dis-
tinguish the modes, which
express in a manner
delightful to see the Louis era —some
five or six centuries agone —
The sheen and shimmer of Taffetas,
the bewitching glory of Georgette
and the lustre of Crepe de Chines vie
with each other for first place. Then,
allied, as if confident of their standing,
are the Serges and Gabardines for
heavier wear. And sheer White Voile
and Organdi—you revel in its soft-
ness and allure exquisite.
Window displays evoke the sincerest
admiration. They express art of
unwonted delicacy and higher inspira-
tion.
We want you to understand that
prices in every instance are based on
a strictly moderate standard. They
are by no means prohibitive—all
purses catered for. Write for the
delightful book of fashions —it is post
free for the asking.
D1309/5. —Smartly-designed Robe in White Voile. The
filet insertion and medallions give a charming effect to this
handsome gown.
PRICE 92/6
DlO2/34. —Dainty little Robe of White Voile, Magyar
Blouse, elbow sleeves, effectively trimmed cream filet inser-
tion and crochet buttons.
PRICE 52/6
DlO2/15. —Another Pjretty Robe of White Voile, artistically
embroidered Blouse with round neck. The skirt is tucked
from hips to hem.
PRICE 79/6
Dll6O/1. — One of the Prettiest of White Voile Robes,
featuring dainty Blouse, round neck, trimmed filet lace and
insertion, deep tuck on skirt and belt of self.
PRICE 29/6
D3321/16. —Here is a Becoming Robe of White Em-
broidered Voile, daintily trimmed white filet insertion,
lace and folded belt of Voile.
PRICE 69/6
Telephone or Mail Orders receive every considera-
tion. Telephones, City 9440, LlBO2, Redfern 234
or North 913.
We pay carriage on all fashion goods and drapery
to any part of N.S.W.; to the nearest inter-State or
Island port.
'' #* V- ■
if
,|f|i *5
4sir- «w«iWH’j
a
ill
>' • ft-
- . *-• ;v
*:
m
• A
*i 2 -.--■-- ,
p X**>
• :: '
• O*
Si
. m
r c
(* *
y
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


Spring is Calling
You and Your
KODAK
Spring air and warm sunshine
are beckoning you to pleasant
rambles with a Kodak—to bring
home pretty pictures of the
places you visit.
The Autographic Kodak Juniors are
splendid instruments—compact, efficient
and most satisfactory. The No. 1 makes
pictures 2£ x inches, price .98/-. The
No. la, for pictures 2-J x 4* inches, costs
£5/3/6, while the 3a makes postcard
pictures 3\ x 5-£ inches and is only £6.
Other Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all
Kodak dealers, and
mmm
iss
iiillli $
\\\\
v
VAY
£
ta\\\
V \ X
w
\,v
a:
?V< ** A>‘
■V
HS
i£ll
iefekli&i i
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.,
579 George Street, Sydney; "The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle-Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
■
*
99
i in
w.
\
&
m
a
X
K}
rt
4S
Ni
2
L
vV
iunEdluulii,
A Good Time Assured.
WHAT hostess does not dread
a dull evening? There’s
never a lull in the enjoyment
when His Master’s Voice’’ supplies
the music—music rendered by stars
whom your guests will delight to hear.
These celebrities record exclusively
with “His Master’s Voice.” ,
McCORMACK
CARUSO
FADEREVSKI
HEIFETZ
GALLI-CURCI
HAMBOURG
MELBA
TETRAZZINI
MOISEIWITSCH
KUBELIK
CHALIAPIN
CALVE
and many other artists of note.
Why not leave the entertainment of
your guests in their able hands?
Complete catalogue, record lists and
name of nearest accredited dealer on
request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
la
fS&
"Kis Masters Voice*
“Gramophone”
R eg. Trade-mark.
“Bis Master's Voice”
Reg. Trade-mark.


For Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular
intervals from sick headache. The
trouble is caused by accumlation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act so
gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency
to sick headache. They have no
unpleasant effect to make them
objectionable to the extra-sensitive
sick headache patient. Old fash-
ioned harsh purgatives will not do
at all in such cases.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
The Dr. flams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites,
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries#
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT*
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1556 CURES 'Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s*’—refuse all substitutes.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
I Jett ®' T&te
•'•'■ ‘Restore i*r
•. V -
♦l*:*
01
k
or 8. AUJES’S
ii
m\
GALVANISE D SHE ETS-
Corrugated and Plain,
Baldwin’s Phoenix Crown
Entirely British Manufacture and Specially
Made for Australian Requirements.
Standard British Corrugations.
ASK YOUR SUPPLIER for this make. Their superior working
qualities are widely known. They are the best ROOHm.*,
for TANK- and CISTERN-MAKING and for ALL GALVANISFH
IRON WORK of every description, possessing as they do
A Uniform Heavy Coating of Pure Spelter,
which ensures long life under all climatic conditions.
Baldwin’s Best Soft Steel Black Sheets
SHEET of the best working qualities is desired.
We now hold large stocks of all sizes.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND NEW ZEALAND:—
R. JOHNSON, CLAPHAM 8 MORRIS LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WELLINGTON, NZ.
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND |_C.yCvC BRara>
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES— SB Pitt Street, Svdney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
The World’s Two Leading Marine and
Stationary Crude Oil Engines.
m
Marine Type (Single and Double Cylinder).
6 to 35 Horse-power.
For Yachts, Launches and Fishing Boats where light weight. Quick starting, easy
running and, last but not least, remarkable low running costs are of importance.
The “AMIS.”
Stocks —6, 10,15 and 20 H.P.
The Wonderful Lightweight, Heavy-duty Crude
Oil Engine. Stationary and Marine Types.
Powers —6 to 35 H.P.
Stationary Type.
The Famous “SKANDIA”
Crude Oil Engine, from 40 to 750 H.P.
Stationary and Marine Types.
Suppliers of High-Grade
Lubricating Fuel Oils.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON
Engineering Department,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Morning Glory.
Morning came blowing his bubbles of lisht.
His puffed pink cheeks were over the hill;
And eight little birds in an even flight
Went with a single will.
Morning with laughter was tossing his hair,
His curls were bright as the world was
And over the trees came the waves of the air
Tossing a spray of song.
Little Boy Blue had his horn at his mouth,
Blowing a call that the morning knew ;
And the sound went north and the sound
went south —
Music of wind and dew.
The day came flowing, a great white sea ;
And every wave with enchantment curled
As it broke and broke on the heart of me
All the length of the world.
Sheep in the meadow and cows in the corn ,
And black ink calls to a dry black pen.
O Little Boy Blue come blow on your horn
And waken the morning men.
The sheep in the meadow, the sun in the
trees, , .
The gold on the wattle, the blue in the
I have 8 heard the hooves of the light little
breeze
Go pittering-pattering by.
Who’ll go a-hunting the breezes with me?
Little Boy Blue, blow loud on your horn !
There’s a quart of honey for every bee
And always a cow in the corn.
Bubbles and bubbles of morning joy !
And the roses blush as they tell the story
Of a grey man capering into a boy,
Whose soul is drunk with glory!
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Two Women.
She was so crystal clear, a man might look
Into her silver soul and read it all,
As through a treeless meadow runs a brook
In whose pellucid depths no shadows fall.
The other, she was turgid as a wine
Of some tall cup there may be poison in.
And though the flagon doth with jewels shine
The draught is scarlet as a secret sin.
She was so pure and pale—heart’s doors set
wide
As some fair holy book with pages tine.
And thus I bore her home, a gentle bride.
Yet she was water and the other,
icine!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Little Girl.
It was just a little girl that I met tripping
through the bush.
And the sun laughed in her tresses and the
dew lay in her eyes;
But in reverence at her passing Mother
Nature whispered Hush!
Though the simple girl could never guess
that slie was paradise.
But a youngling moon new-risen peeped down
worshipping to see,
While the Star of Evening gazed at her
and sighed a deep content.
And I said, “I want to kiss you out of piety.
Trust me.”
So she smiled and let me kiss her, but she
knew not what I meant.
Yet the kiss we kissed went winging up and
stung the seraph choir
To a new divine soft yearning, and far
starlit ways it trod
Till it sped beyond all distances to which
men’s thoughts aspire.
And slept in peace and happiness upon
the knees of God.
Then in a little while God stooped and
whispered to the kiss
A tender, gracious message, and the kiss
made haste to start
To earth again full-laden with a holy secret
bliss. .
And it hid that perfect treasure straight-
way in my lonely heart.
So now, as age creeps in on me and no one
seems to care,
And my eyes grope for the starshine as the
ominous shadows rush
To make more dense the darkness that is
crowding everywhere,
I am faithful to the simple girl that went
tripping through the bush.
She is living, waiting for me, though the
muddlers call her dead,
And she’ll kiss me without ceasing through
our dear eternity,
An eternity transcendent of pure peace when
all is said.
An eternity of home one little girl, and
God, and me.
N.S.W.
ELLERSLIE GREY.
To His Lady, that She Should Not Be
So Proud.
Oh, when you walk, no lady walks beside
YOU
One-half so tall in loveliness, nor yet so
proud and rare. .
Oh, when you talk, no woman may deride
you . .
With more of music in her lips, nor magic m
her hair.
But a tall ship, a tall ship, is a hundred
times more fair,
And could I see a tall ship, I should no
longer care.
N.S.W.
JEAN CURLEWIS.


COATES'
Original Plymouth.
DRY GIN
When ordering gin,
look for this trade-
mark, the Jolly Black
Friar, on the bottle; it
signifies the highest
standard of excellence.
Coates Original Ply-
mouth Dry Gin is
The Purest Spirit
in the World.
This famous product of the
Blackfriars’ • Distillery, Ply-
mouth, England, never varies
in quality. Its absolute matur-
ity is evident in its mellow
flavor.
Its richness in juniper makes it
the best gin to drink for
health’s sake.
At all good hotels, clubs, wine
and spirit stores, etc.
COOPER, NATHAN A CO.,
Sole Agents, Sydney.
Interstate Agents:
Melbourne—H. J. Langdon & Co.
Brisbane—Perkins & Co., Ltd.
West Australia—Seppelt & Son.
Mi
V lx
U
\
k
M*
“ —and the
Sandwiches
were made
with Rex
Luncheon
Cheese”
They were discussing Eileen’s supper
party quite the most enjoyable of the
season. 'And those delicious sand-
wiches —I wonder how she makes them?"
asked Nancy.
No secret about that, for anyone can
make the same dainty sandwiches with
the aid of Rex Cheese.
It has just that piquancy of flavor that
appeals irresistably to every palate. It
Wads quite easily on the thinnest slice
of bread. Its fine quality never varies.
Try this Cheese delicacy for Supper,
Afternoon Teas, Lunches. Be sure you
get Rex.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
fw Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J 3012
<^YOYOYOYOYOYOVSV§
&JV <:
■4(m
s-'-
o
O
0
omfit 0
1
Ollfn
nu
dfa
SaS
a
fiife I^s
Canno
Cleans I
B-cgula
British
Aek for OWOrp | Njf
UsK.
elf.
fcure.
r® e «t for all Pens
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans H?e leefh wifbouf scratching
fbe breafb;b&rder7S I’be gums
MADE
IN
Australia
Si
:
»ISW
l/l
lf your chernisl - or storekeeper
canno!* supply, send in stomps
i-o Rocke .Tompsitt t Co. Melbourne.
1
**6
MS
ESSEX
Tr iumphant!
A Stock ESSEX touring car has just secured
the world’s three most coveted motor records.
1. Transcontinental run from New York to
San Francisco, 3347 miles, in 4 days 19
hours 1 7 minutes.
2. Return trip to New York in 4 days 14
hours 43 minutes.
3. By thus completing the round trip of 6694
miles in 9 days 1 0 hours.
The previous records were established by a
Hudson Super-Six,” three years ago, and
though other makes of cars have attempted
to lower the figures on many occasions in the
interval, all either failed or broke down
hopelessly under the prolonged strain.
RELIABILITY WAS THE KEYNOTE
OF THIS PERFORMANCE.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
136 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Touring Gar, £695. Roadster, £670.
COMPLETE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41—No. 2117.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1920.
Price 9d.
ONE SCANDAL AND ANOTHER.
MISS AUSTRALIA: “Yes, there’s a most unpleasant smell about parts of the house. In fact, several unpleasant smells.
And I’m afraid it’s your own bad work that is responsible.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
usgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin In (wspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
-11 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I Foi £1 iti Sm per annum you can have The
ulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid,
lo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
au /Justness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
Jhe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
2/te Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
1 olitical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
WOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Ihe Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no l\tS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be redrawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus : and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi ;
E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “'The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
H Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Boland Kay Co., 18 f 9
Conway Buildings, Chicago. U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 21th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, I,2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago ; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singavore.
Ceylon.—lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., ltd.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3kd.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1920.
THE THUG SUNDAY-SCHOOL AND
OTHER ODD ACADEMIES.
Given a little money (very little money—
in fact, hardly any) and the command of
the necessary organisations, The Bulletin,
if entrusted with three of Bruce Smith’s
infant grandchildren, would bring them up
to be a Protectionist, a Sinn Feiner and an
anarchist respectively, and they would be as
reliable specimens of their kind as if born
in the faith. The fact that their views were
absolutely contrary to those inherited from
the old man would make no difference, and
if there were conversions or defections among
them they would be no more numerous than
occur in any sect. The power of educa-
tion, good or bad —the early teaching of
truths or lies or gross absurdities —is a mar-
vellous thing. No one know T s who was the
founder, Messiah and first teacher of Thug-
gee, that creed whose adherents slew pro-
miscuously without earthly profit and with
only a vague idea of heavenly reward —just
slew because it was the 'right thing to do.
Nor did anybody ever locate the Thug Uni-
versity which conferred degrees; or the Thug
High School or the Thug Kindergarten ; but
they existed somewhere, for a cult has to
live by education. As the religion was as
incurable as hydrophobia, the only remedy
was to wipe out the congregation root and
branch. The petrolcurs and petroleuses,
largely of alien birth like Australia’s own
I.W.W. people, who burned one-fourth of
Paris in 1871 (one-fourth being nearly
eoual to the whole of Melbourne) and did
their best to burn the rest —these people
who formed the most advanced wing of the
Communard outfit —were also the products
of education. Someone founded the Kero-
sene Church, and the Blow-up Sunday-school,
and the faith spread under enthusiastic and
largely unpaid teachers who toiled for the
mere wickedness of the thing. As it was
impossible to convert them and impossible
to live with them, Adolphe Thiers and Co.
killed or deported as many thousands of them
as could be located. Two men with a capa-
city for teaching and organisation persuaded
a multitude of people to become a nuisance,
not by their foolish belief that an angel
dropped a golden book to Joseph Smith
out of Heaven, but by polygamy, fierce law-
lessness, sundry massacres and veiled insur-
rection. The Turks in their heyday levied
a tribute of male Christian infants who
were adopted, re-named and educated in such
devout Moslemism that they were a better
bulwark of the State than its own people,
and kept Turkdom afloat when the Turk
himself was practically played out. They
represented perpetual motion as well as edu-
cation, for they enforced the kidnapping of
more Christian children to go through the
same course of treatment as themselves. The
power of education, whether children are
taught to be devout Catholics or devout Bol-
sheviks or convinced Thugs or believers in
the right of the Hun to be the world’s uni-
versal slave-master, is evidenced by the fact
that the religion of a nation is the hardest
thing about it to change, and that if a sect,
whether Baptists or petroleum, is once
allowed to take root, it hardly ever dies
except by violence. Therefore the party
which captures the scholastic machine, and
uses it not merely for education blit for the
spread of its doctrines, is in a mighty solid
position, provided it can hold on till the first
shift or relay of children grows up.
In Australia the State Governments are
supposed to control education, but as a
matter of fact all sorts of people take a
hand. Persons, sects or organisations can
run schools and devote them to teaching
piety, bigotry or anarchy as well as the
regulation book-knowledge. In fact, they
may grievously neglect the book-knowledge
and concentrate on the piety, bigotry and
anarchy, for, except perhaps in Westralia,
Government inspection is almost non-
existent. In 3017', when the last Knibbs
statistics were made up, there were in the
Commonwealth 1685 schools which ran quite
apart from the State, with 177,126 scholars
and 8028 teachers. They represented one-
fourth of the school power of the Common-
wealth. Many of them were sectarian, but
there were actually, though it was war-time,
three German schools in N. S. Wales, 10 in
Victoria (where it was complained the other
day that the Hun academies are still in full
bloom), and no less than 52 in Hun-ridden
S. Australia. English is now spoken
in these last by direction of Parliament;
nevertheless the Hun influences remain, and
the large crop of citizens that these schools
turned out before English began to be spoken
is still going strong and will do so for many
years. All this was apart from foreign and
other private kindergarten where 2648 in-
fants were caught young. When the N. S.
Wales Government began to sort out claims
for damages through the closing of institu-
tions during the influenza epidemic, the big-
gest claim (£64,678) was for theatres and
picture-shows; the second biggest (£21,850)
for Roman Catholic schools; the third
(£12,655) for other private schools. Bil-
liard saloons were a bad fourth, and hotels
a very poor fifth. These were more recent
returns than Knibbs’s, and they revealed
that R.C. schools in this one State numbered
155. all staffed by teachers whose payment
consisted of board, lodging, clothes and a
high hope of Heaven. The R.C. schools
have a good standard of education, but the
reason of their separate existence is that
they are wanted for propaganda purposes,
and a great deal of propaganda can be done
where an unlimited number of unpaid
teachers are available. In fact, where the
scholars pay and the teachers are not paid
education mav yield a dividend instead of
being a heavy charge as in the case of the
State. Exactly whht the State should do
with the unpaid teacher it is hard to say.
The case looks like one of sweating, but
when a person insists on being sweated, hav-
ing been taught that there is merit in it,
the situation is difficult.
Furthermore, there is that unknown quan-
tity, the Sunday-school, about which statis-
tics are almost non-existent. It is the
cheapest of all forms of propaganda, for the
unpaid teachers buy their own food and
clothes. It has always been treated as a
neutral, harmless sort of affair, quite out-
side the State orbit. Rut something hap-
pened the other day—a foolish show and in-
judicious revelation —which made- it known
that this Australian institution, like the
Thug Sunday-school, also the anarchist,
1.W.W., Bolshevik and Communard Sunday-
schools, is a weapon, and that there is a
variety of it which dabbles in politics and
exists only for politics of the worst kind.
It pursues its way without Government in-
spection or supervision to teach bad citizen-
ship, hatred of order, contempt for the self-
governing rights of the peonle, and other
things that may lead to revolt, murder and
other unpleasantnesses. In Sydney the other
day some of the I.W.W. convicts who had
been engineered out of gaol made such a
public demonstration of their fitness to be
in gaol that Premier Storey was moved to
describe one of them as a person who de-
lights in blood, dreams of blood, talks blood
and wallows in blood. In attendance at
the wallowing were the children of the
Socialist Sunday-school, future mothers of
the nation, and apparently training at their
holy academy to be the future petrolcvses
and Messalinas of the nation also. The
Infant Phenomenon of the crowd, aged about
ll years and too young to have opinions save
those which were passed on to her. did a pre-
maturely aged preachment about the virtues
of 1.W.W.-'sin. the sinfulness of those who
prosecuted Sydney’s group of anarchists, and
the blessedness of social upheaval. Possibly
the poor child only suffered from the in-
equalities of I'fe through having the kind of
father who would bring up a child that way
—one of those to whom the whole world is
a grievance and to whom Heaven would be
a grievance also —but her tale pf precocious
acquired ignorance, malice and uncharitable-
ness suggested that the education system is
rotten in many places. The Hun schools
which taught an insane pride of their coun-
try until the system ran an inflated nation
on the rocks, weren’t half so objectionable
as those which teach a deranged hatred of
their country.
• * * *
It should be laid down that these things
are not to be taught to the young: Obedi-
ence to any alien power; revolution, which
in a land where the people have absolute
control is the attempt to put a minority in
power and reproduce oligarchy in its worst
form; murder, arson and robbery as the
necessary concomitants of the effort to dis-
franchise the people for the benefit of the
oligarchy, whether it be Garden’s or any-
body else’s; disregard and violent contempt
of the law which is made by the people; the
internationalist doctrine of the equality; and
comprehensive brotherhood of man, for Aus-
tralia’s existence as a white community de-
pends on a very narrow selection of brothers ;
.the glorification of criminals —and a few
more. To that end a rigid inspection of all
seminaries is called for, and the forcible
shutting un of unite a number. Hun acade-
mies and Thug Sunday-schools especially.
BLUFFING A NATION.
“The greatest care is needed in watching the at-
tempts to extend the limits of this Defence power.”
—Higgins, ./., in Pankhurst v. Kiernas.
“I don’t trust him. He seemed all the time to be
trying to ‘come it’ over me.” —H. G. Wells, after
first meeting with AV. M. Hughes.
The history of the War Precautions Act to
date affords a valuable lesson as to the man-
ner in which the liberties of a freedom-lov-
ing people may be tampered with by a poli-
tician eager for power at any price, and
possessed of a certain virtuosity in the
Yankee art of bluffing. The country swal-
lowed the measure philosophically in the
black days of 1911. The Kaiser's armies
were sweeping through Belgium and North-
ern France: eveiy part of the British
Empire was in danger by repercussion. The
Act gave the G ov e r n o r - Be n e r a 1 in Council —
that is to say. the Government; in other
words, W. M. HCtghes—the most absolute
powers. The Prime Minister was enabled
by regulation to abrogate, as regards indi-
viduals, the right of personal liberty, all pro-
perty rights, and the right of free speech,
which included the freedom of the press;
every club and corporation became liable to
be declared an illegal association ; the States
sacrificed their status as sovereign entities.
The new instrument was used with vigor.
And the Courts were extremely chary about
delimiting its weight and strength. By a
regulation of March 24, 1916, all the most
populous parts of Australia were declared
“proclaimed areas,” and by another regula-
tion, made 18 days later, the Government
was empowered to fix the prices of bread
and flour in such areas. All action of the
sort was, of course, taken under Section 51
(VI and XXXIX) of the Constitution, author-
ising Parliament to make laws with rbspect
to “the naval and military defence of the
Commonwealth.” The “Bread Case”
(Farey v. Burvett) followed. It was con-
tended here that the Government had no
power to disregard the Trade and Commerce
clause and the principle laid down in re-
peated High Court judgments respecting
inter-State trading operations. Griffith,
C.J., swept the contention aside. “Can the
measure in question,” he asked, “conduce to
the efficiency of the forces of the Empire?”
He concluded that it might, and for that
reason declared the Act and Regulation
valid. Barton, J., analysed the word “de-
fence” and decided that “to aid in supplying
the food-needs of any part of the Empire
outside Australia, or of Australia itself,”
might in a period of great stress come with-
in the definition of the term. And his brother
Isaacs laid down that defence in such a
crisis was “the ultima ratio of the nation.”
“War.” he remarked, “creates its own neces-
sities,” and Australia was participating in
a war “imperilling our very existence.” It
was “in mortal combat with a commpn
enemy.” For those reasons he considered
the Act valid.
Exactly the same arguments were em-
ployed in Pankhurst v. Kiernan which
followed. Adela Pankhurst had smashed
some windows as a protest against things in
general, and she had publicly advocated fur-
ther action along the same lines. It was
contended for the respondent (in effect, the
Crown), on appeal before the High Court,
that the Federal Government under its
defence powers exercised “absolute dominion
over every article of property in the Com-
monwealth.” In the particular circum-
stances the Court agreed. “The destruction
of property,” said Barton, J., “may dimin-
ish the resources of the people applicable to
their defence.” The Government must
“prevent any hampering or dislocation of the
work of effectively prosecuting the war.”
Adela Pankhurst had been proceeded
against under the Unlawful Association Act
(1916-17) —like the War Precautions Act,
an offshoot of Sec. 51 of the Constitution.
But whereas the War Precautions Act pur-
ported to provide for the “defence” of Aus-
tralia, the other in its preamble merely men-
tioned that such a law was expedient “for
the effective prosecution of the present war.”
Bearing that in mind Higgins, J., said: —
One can conceive of a position in which all danger
to Australia has vanished, and yet the war—the same
war —is still being prosecuted for the purpose of
obtaining Constantinople for the Greeks or the
Russians, or Jerusalem for the Jews, or Dalmatia
for 1ta1y....1 venture to say that if the Federal
Parliament pass a bill for the protection of private
property, it must, at the very least, show' by express
words or necessary intendment that it regards the law
as necessary or expedient for the distinctive object
of the defence of Australia; that it is applying its
mind to the defence of Australia.
Those words, were used when Australia,
in common with the rest of the Empire, had
its back to the wall. Every judgment vali-
dating a Hughes war-measure was qualified
with almost wearisome iteration by the
•statement that one condition and one only
made for validity—the fact that Australia
was on its defence against specified enemies,
viz., Germany and Germany’s allies. The
Government was allowed by regulation to
interfere in the internal trade and commerce
of the States in the matter of bread on such
grounds as that it might help recruiting, or
increase the British bread supply, and so
hamper the Huns. It was allowed to pro-
claim the I.W.W. an illegal association be-
cause the cult of internationalism amounted
to a national menace in the face of such
enemies as the Germans and their allies. If
the Government had established that, for
the purpose of successfully resisting those
enemies, it was necessary for Freemasonry
or the Melbourne Club to be suppressed, the
Court would have had no option but to
agree. For the past two years Germany has
been in a condition of intermittent anarchy,
while the States which used to be Austria-
Hungary have starved. The ratification or
non-ratification of certain treaties has no-
thing to do with the case! The point is that
the effective war-vessels and the mercantile
marine of these countries are at the bottom
of the sea or in the hands of their con-
querors. They have neither the men, the
means nor the money to attack us, and it
would be wanton cruelty as well as idiocy
on our part to attack them. The War Pre-
cautions Act and measures of a like deriva-
tion have remained in force all this time,
and they are still in force, not that there is
any remaining shred of danger from the Ger-
manic races, not that they have not been as
impotent to damage anything but themselves
for the past 24 months as they can possibly
be for the next century or more, but simply
because W. M. Hughes loves absolute power.
With as little scruple as he exercised it
during the war he exercises it now. It is his
way.
A PROPOSAL TO PUT THE DIPLO-
MATIC CART IN FRONT OF THE
DEFENCE HORSE.
Amongst the several new instruments to
provide overseas billets for ageing Federal
politicians which have been foreshadowed is
an Australian Embassy at Washington.
Various reasons have been given why an
official more decorative than the present
trade commissioner should represent the
Commonwealth in the U.S.A. Canada already
has an ambassador there, and South Africa
is talking of sending one. The South African
proposal may come to nothing. It derives
most of its vitality from the Smuts party’s
desire to show the electors that they are as
Nationalist as the Hertzoggers. Canada’s
position in relation to the U.S.A. is, of
course, widely different from ours. Further-
more, the Canadian representative is subser-
vient to the British Embassy. The original
idea was that he should act independently.
Downing-street, perturbed at the threatened
interference with the diplomatic unity of the
Empire, effected a compromise. “Whenever
our Minister is away,” the British Govern-
ment said to Canada, “yours shall speak for
the Empire.” And that is the position now. It
is unthinkable that the Commonwealth Min-
ister, if he materialises, should play third
or fourth fiddle in the U.S.A., and the indica-
tions are that the Hughes Government does
not mean him to do so. It is interesting, in
the circumstances, to consider some of the
implications of the threatened situation.
An American Embassy would, of course, be
established here, and Japan has intimated,
through its press, that, in that event, it
will claim the right to follow suit. Which
must mean an Australian Embassy in Tokio.
From .then onwards the U.S.A. and Japan
would talk on matters of high international
politics affecting Australia direct to the
Federal Government, and not, as heretofore,
to the King’s Ministers in London. What
is it that gives an ambassador authority and
weight in discussion with the representative
of another power? Nothing less, in the last
resort, than the knowledge that his Govern-
ment is capable of backing his demands with
armed force. There are many contentious
matters, as between the Commonwealth and
Japan, which must come up for settlement
within the next few years. Notably the
White Australia policy. It has been main-
tained largely hitherto by the R.N.; in other
words, at the expense of the taxpayers of the
United Kingdom. Its merits are probably
a good deal less evident to most of them than
they are to us. That the attitude of a big
section of Britishers is considerably more
cautious, not to say reluctant, in the matter
of embarking on fresh wars, was indicated
last month, when the Lloyd George Govern-
ment proposed to attack Russia. The British
working-classes are suffering from a form
of war-shock; and small blame to them.
They might still dash cheering into a w r ar
as of old for a cause which they neither
thoroughly understood nor entirely approved
provided they were committed to it by a
trusted representative of their own—an
Edward Grey or a Derby. But w r ould they
do so at the behest of a Pearce, a Cook, or
even a Hughes? To be taxed up to about
12s. Gd. in the £. as many of the British are
at the present time, is enough to knock the
vicarious bellicosity out of any race.
If it is admitted that we can’t safely go
on asserting ourselves behind weapons which
may be denied us, and fairly so. when most
required—if the good old principle is
accepted that those who insist on calling
tunes must find the w r ages of the pipers—
then it is plain that a vigorous Defence
policy is the only ticket for Australia. But
the Government has decided to cut down
Defence expenditure to the bone. The Re-
serve has practically gone; the C.M.F. is
going; the brilliant young regular officers
with active-service experience w r ho might
improvise another A.I.F. in time of need, are
being driven by starvation pay into civil life.
So far as the Navy is concerned it is to be
neither modernised nor augmented in size. On
the contrary, a number of ships are to be .
scrapped; the personnel is to be reduced;
no more naval recruiting is to be undertaken
for the present, and those R.A.N. ratings
■who complete their seven years will be en-
couraged to return to civilian life. The
Government has decided to heap the respon-
sibility of adopting the Jellicoe scheme on
to some future naval conference. And
nothing is being done in the way of air-
defence. In fact, so far. the Commonwealth
has not even drawn up those air-regulations
which are necessary to place civilian flying
on a practical working basis. There may be
some justification for it all. Again, there
may not. What is absolutely' certain is that,
in the circumstances, it is preposterous to
talk about the creation of foreign embassies.
Such gauds are not for people who shrink
from the first obligation of nationhood —that
of providing themselves with fighting ser-
vices adequate for their own protection.


AN INTERLUDE —IN COLOR.
I remember as a small boy hundreds of
sooty aborigines rolling up at a police-station
on the Lachlan River for their annual blan-
kets and tomahawks. Some were still strictly
neolithic in their views of life ; others had
become more or less civilised —the worst
authorities spell it "syphilised.” With an
absence of humor peculiar to the conquering
Briton, these gifts were always distributed
on the Queen’s birthday. It looked as if,
in a striving for correctness and proper be-
havior, the Government, following up old
customs of free-socage, desired, at a time
of national rejoicing, to admit the proprie-
tary rights of the natives to their own coun-
try. Similarly old Irish families which had
gone over to Protestantism and Tudonsm m
order to retain their properties annually pre-
sented some trifle, such as a pair of doeskin
gloves, it Dublin Castle. The blanket and
tomahawk might have arisen out of this com-
mon feudal precedent, or it might have been
an act of pious atonement. In any case the
result was the same: the natives traded their
blankets and tomahawks, together with any
rugs or weapons which the whites fancied,
for rum of the country, and went back more
bedraggled, besotted and dispirited than ever
to their camps in Riverina.
The Lachlan blacks are long extinct. In
a few decades last descendants of those Aus-
tralian landowners who, with justifiable
apprehension, watched Captain Cooiv’s ship
sail slowly northward, will be holding
ghostly corroborees, their spear-heads and
stone-tomahawks resting beside the flints of
Mousterian man in anthropological collec-
tions, united in extinction with our common
ancestors after 200,00 U years!
In the year 1912 I spent some time in the
East Indies, where I studied colonial Dutch
methods of dealing witli a native population.
They have worked out the race-problem on
lines diverging widely from those followed
by the colonial-British in Australia. Child-
ren of a European father and a colored
mother are brought up white. These half-
castes do not go back to kampong life.
They are trained at Government agricul-
tural colleges, and elevated to minor posi-
tions in the public service. The Eurasian
is respected, forms a connecting link be-
tween the two races, and is a useful factor
in government. With us, on the other hand,
one can imagine nothing more tragical than
the life of a half-caste girl. The blacks do
not want her, she is outcast to the whites.
The Road of Vice is the one way freely open
to her.
After leaving Java in the year mentioned,
I landed in Fort Darwin. The Northern
Territory, where color still predominated,
brought these comparisons home to me. One
of the unwritten laws of the Territory is
that no conviction shall ever be made by a
local jury of a white man for killing a
native. In my notebooks are many queer
entries relating to this color question; but
a verbatim report of a racial discussion un-
willingly heard through, the corrugated-iron
walls of a Territory hotel is probably most
illustrative.
The time is early morning, and the
speakers are the white missus, the boss and
a half-caste girl of about 19. The cause
of the trouble is not clear, but the poor
little wretch has evidently been called in
for punishment.
The Male : “You dirty black slut!”
The Female: “You filthy half-caste!”
A short silence, broken only by muffled
sobs.
Female voice in rising anger: “Fer two
pins I’d What! I’ll knock your eye
out.”
A shuffling of feet and a pitiful voice:
“Oh, don’t!”
White Female Voice, returning to the
charge: “I’ve been too good to you, that’s
what I have — there"! (Sound of a blow,
followed by sobs.) “The cheek of you, you
little black wretch! There!" (Sound of a
further blow, followed by more sobbing.
A short pause. Then the white Christian
returns to the attack on the black heathen.
Judging by the hatred in the voices there are
still arrears of Christian. revenge from the
period of the early martyrs, when the
heathen held the rod.) “Mr. Beckett? I
wish Mr. Beckett was here. I'd, deal with
you —l’d go do him myself!” [At that time
Mr. Beckett was Protector of Aborigines
in the Territory.] “If I’d kicked you as the
other people did that had you before., you’d
have something to make a fuss about.”
Male Voice, restrained but fierce: “If you
make any fuss —you try it on and I'll put
you away: I know something about you and
the men!”
Sounds as of blows.
“Will you?”
Sobs.
More hissing and threatening noises, a
shuffle of retreating feet and a door being
locked Quietness The low animal-
wailing of a suffering child.
I have been dressing. I am ready to go
out. It is none of my business. I do not
know the right or the wrong of it. Insistent,
subdued, comes the wailing of a fatherless,
motherless waif through that hot galvanised-
iron wall.
I am angry, but it is none of my business.
It is absolutely none of my business. One
might speak to Mr. Beckett
But the cure of all this is not with Mr.
Beckett, anxious as he was to have the abo-
rigines fairly treated. It lies away hack
and beyond, a primal weight in the scale of
all justice. This woman-creature sobbing
behind the wall, whom I do not know, have
never seen, can have nothine in common
with, is—what? The fruit of the White
Man's vice, the victim of the White Man’s
cruelty! Her wrongs, the wrongs of all her
kind, can only be righted by a just and
avenging God. And God ?
I sit down on the edge of the bed and
think. Gradually the sound in the next
room changes. What is it? I seem to hear,
dimly, surely, in the far, far North, the
beating of hammers on plates of iron!
Solemn, precise, methodical, like the tapping
of a thousand distant drums!
What is it?
It is the sound of the Colored Man rivet-
ing armor on the keels of battleships in the
dockyards of Japan.
E. J. BEADY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Ireland that Spain Had.
Attention begins to be drawn to the indus-
trial and commercial regeneration of Spain,
which has figured for the last few centuries
as a region of rather tawdry romance, of im-
poverished pride, of holidays, hidalgos, bull-
tights, saints, serenades, opera and Don
Quixote. The dry-rot which undermined
what was once the greatest fighting, explor-
ing and pioneering race the world ever saw
was the frantic resolve of its Lloyd Georges
never to give up their Ireland, even
when their Ireland was tired of them
—never to give it up because Spain had
planted some of its own people there among
an alien population. Its Ireland being far
bigger than England’s, the situation was
much worse. Even when Cuba was the only
Ireland that it had left, the situation was
still bad enough ; for Cuba kept the mother-
land in a state of insomnia and unrest.
Gladstone’s saying, when local reforms
hung tire, “Ireland bars the way, was dupli-
cated in Spain, where Cuban affairs barred
the way. Now Spain has got rid of its
Ireland, and it no longer buries its treasure
and the bones of its young soldiers and the
morale of its .armies and the reputations of
its. generals in Cuba. This paper isn’t cer-
tain that Ireland (that is to say, Cuba) is
much better off for its independence, but
Spain, being free of its banshee, its family
ghost and the millstone round its neck, is a
new Spain. Nobody thinks a bit the less
of it for having abandoned its Ire-
land. Indeed, it counts for more than
it did in European politics, for no enemy
can rouse Cuba to bite it in the rear, and
if it gets mixed up in war it can throw its
whole army at the enemy instead of having
half of it away watching its uncertain pos-
session. Moreover, if any member tries to
talk Cuban affairs in the Cortes the Speaker
or Chief Bullfighter pulls him up with the
intimation that the politics of a foreign and
friendly country must not be dragged into the
debate. So it is mentioned that, being able
to get on to business, Spain (which is short
of coal and tired of depending on foreign
supplies) is developing the biggest scheme
of electric power worked by the force of
water that Europe has seen up to date.
Probably the scheme isn't so big as alleged,
but at least it means a revival —the revival
of a nation that has thrown its ghost over-
board. Lloyd George, declaring that Eng-
land will never abandon Ireland, even as
Emma Micawber would never abandon her
husband, might take a lesson.
The Habit of Being Kind.
Australia’s army of pensioners of one sort
and another grows apace, and, even without
N. S. Wales Minister McGirr’s proposed
allowances for the third, fourth, fifth and
subsequent children in each family, this was
about the most pensioned and bonused com-
munity on earth. One person in every 39
collects either an old age or an invalid allow-
ance; and apparently people grow old faster
than they used to do, for the allowancers
increased by 32 per cent, in a period during
which the population advanced by only 16
per cent. Where there were 150 officially
old people out of every 10,000 in 1910 there
were 189 in 1920, and invalids multiplied
from 17 per 10,000 to 67. As for the per-
sistence of the baby bonus, it becomes a
weariness. The following are some recent
figures:—
To Children Children Unaccountable
June, Allegedly Born. Paid for. Surplus.
1914 .. 137,983 134,998
1915 .. 134,871 138,855 3984
1916 . . 131,426 131,943 517
1917 . . 129,965 132,407 2442
1918 .. 125,739 126,885 1146
1919 . . 122,290 124,016 1726
The allowance of £5 per infant began *n
October, 1912, and it took the infant 15
months to get up steam, so to speak, or to
get into his stride, or to drop to the possi-
bilities of the situation. But when he did
drop he dropped really hard, and in 1917
especially the performance was highly com-
mendable. All this distribution of money
gives the politicians who hand it out a lavish
and generous feeling—the sensation of doing
good and being on the turnpike road to
Heaven. And it saves a lot of trouble in
the establishment of self-supporting indus-
tries. There are quite a lot of items in
Young Australia’s inheritance —the public
debt, the pension habit, the habit of learn-
ing no trade, but to be an odd-jobber in the
loan market, a certain disease taint which
very little is done to eradicate, and. of course,
the" great natural resources, which every-
body takes for granted. Still, it doesn’t fol-
low that this is the most poverty-stricken
land on earth because it is the most charity-
mongered land. Distress has to be invented
if it doesn’t exist so that people of a sort can
live by relieving it. Anybody can name off-
hand a dozen well-known men who wouldn’t
be known at all if they didn’t buzz around
helping people, and who would sooner be
kind to a graven image than not do good to
somebody.
*
The Varying Powers of the
Commonwealth.
For years a certain doubt has existed as to
whether the High Court could reverse its
own decisions. The point was argued in
Huddart Parker v. Morehead, in 1908,
Isaacs, J., claiming that it could do so,
while Griffith, C.J., contended that such a
proposition “had never been laid down by
any Court before, and was altogether incon-
sistent with any principle of British Courts.”
But the higher American Courts have fre-
quently done what the late Chief Justice
said was unprecedented; and the TJ.S.
Supreme Court hus lciid down the doctiine
that “a Court can reverse itself, and ought
to do so if a wrong result has been reached.
Which demonstrates yet again that not even
the greatest of lawyers is infallible, and at
the same time provides another argument
aaainst the Torv doctrine of stare decisis.
Last week the High Court (Duffy, J., dis-
senting) decided that the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court could regulate hours alfd
conditions of labor in State industries, more
particularly in the railway services. There-
by the Court reversed itself as regards the
principles laid down by it in Rex v. Common-
wealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion, and other similar cases. There is no
need to stress the vast importance of the
change involved. In the opinion of the pre-
sent High Court the whole of the instrumen-
talities of the States come under Common-
wealth control. It is something more than
unification, since, even under such a com-
pletely unified Constitution as that of the
United Kingdom (one under which "Parlia-
ment can do anything but make a man a
woman or a woman a man'’), many vast
powers are delegated to local councils and
the like. If there were anything static
about the situation it would be less embar-
rassing to Federal and State Legislatures
alike. In that event they could quickly come
to arrangements reasonably satisfactory to
all parties. But the intolerable position is
that the industrial rhythm of the is
liable to be altered again and again. The
weakness of a Constitution which has to be
interpreted from day to day is a matter of
the natural fallibility of human nature. A
Griffith goes; a Knox comes. Both are
eminent lawyers; strong personalities; men
of unimpeachable integrity. But one hap-
pens to view the Constitution at a different
angle from the other. The effect is seen in
judgments which are poles apart. If one of
the latitudinarians of the High Court Bench
were to die or retire to-morrow, and if his
place were filled by an equally able and
honest Judge who happened to take the nar-
row interpretative path, then the country
would straightway swing back to where it
stood before the decision of last week. That
stability which is a first essential to any
business community thus depends on the
purest of gambles, viz., the individual expect-
ancy of life enjoyed by half a dozen men,
all of whom are past middle age. The forth-
coming convention on the Constitution will
no doubt rectify such a reduction to absurdity
of the Federal system. The Canadian arrange-
ment offers far the likeliest solution —one
under which the National Parliament is
supreme, while the States derive certain
clearly defined and irrefragable powers from
it.
+
The Reform of a Parliament. •
Two possible methods of reforming the N.
S. Wales Billingsgative Assembly, and mak-
ing it more like a meeting of sane men and
less like a midnight shindy of criminals in
a brothel, suggest themselves. The first
idea is to legalise the duel in this case
only, it being the only case so utterly bad
as to make the duel advisable. Then, acting
according to the rules and formalities of
the game, an aggrieved and shamefully in-
sulted member could kill Minahan or
McGirk or Fitzpatrick or ’Enley or who-
ever it might be. The weakness of this old-
fashioned “remedy” is that the wronged per-
son might be killed instead of securing re-
dress, and the biggest ruflian might, by his
handiness with a weapon and his vile temper,
dominate the Billingsgative House even
more than he does now. Still, this court
of appeal would be better than none. The
other and probably better method would be
to abolish the coward’s privilege by making
every member responsible in law for lies
and slanders directed at a fellow legislator.
No decent and honorable man could object
to such an arrangement. At present any
vituperative politician may lie horribly about
another, which apparently he usually does,
and the decent sort of member can’t, say it
is a lie, though apparently it generally is.
Yet as the latter is loth to counter the alle-
gation that he deserted his aged mother and
eloped with two barmaids at once by declar-
ing that the objectionable party served a
term in gaol for a most unpleasant offence
under a false name, his only possible satis-
faction is to describe the Billingsgater’s alle-
gation for what it is. Supposing every man
outside Parliament was allowed to be as
virulent with complete legal impunity as
every man inside it, society would dissolve
and wholesale murder would stalk the
streets. If members ceased to be the only
irresponsible animals in the community,
many three-hour speeches would diminish
to half an hour for lack of fuel, and some
members, deprived of their only weapon,
would drop into obscurity and fade off the
map. On the other hand a new type would
appear or an old type revive. There are
plenty of citizens who are capable of good
service and willing to render it under con-
ditions which don’t suggest a moral ash-
heap, but who wouldn’t accept a billet as
a member or a Minister or as a cardinal or
a king if there was attached to it a liability
to be called a hog and a thief and a wife-
beater bv any one of 89 persons at any hour
of the day or night. To be told that he
has his remedy inasmuch as he can become
as bad a fishfag as his assailant or even
worse has no attractions for the desirable
kind of inhabitant. Of course, as the fish-
fag element is so strongly entrenched, it
would be difficult to pass an Act for the
abolition of fish-faggery, but it shouldn’t
be impossible.
+. .
Divorce for Incompatibility of Outlook.
If butter production is taken as a test N. S.
Wales is the cow-cockiest State in the Com-
monwealth, and its cow-cockies consider that
they have a grievance. When products of
any kind were partly consumed here and
partly exported, they were in older times
thi’Qfvn promiscuously on the market. If
the foreigner was willing to pay an unusual
price he got the goods, and the local man went
short unless he put up his price also. This
might be sordid commercialism, but it had
at least the merit of bringing a lot of money
to the country. A helpless community like
this —which neglects so many industries
limits production in so many more, owes so
many interest-bearing debts abroad, is
trying to owe so many others, and has
so many imports to pay for, down to the
hobnails in its boots —has to export as much
as possible of the few surplus things it makes
in order to pay its bills. Also the country
wants to get the biggest possible price for
its goods, even if the business does make liv-
ing dearer —not a price inflated by middle-
men, but a real price. Dear living is the
natural penalty of a community which pro-
duces little and imports and borrows much.
But the city—the ever-growing city—stood
for only about a quarter of the N. S. Wales
population 60 years ago, whereas it repre-
sents nearly a half now. The manufactures
and commerce and finance concentrate there
more and more, and Parliament is there, and
the Government, headed by the hon. member
who has lived all his life in Balmain, is
there, and the trades-union bosses who run
both Government and Parliament are there,
likewise the short-hour movement and the
go-slow movement and the “irritation strike”
project. The city demands cheap food even
if it means long hours, poor wages, child
labor and other stereotyped evils to some-
body outside its bounds. It is proposed that
the cow-cocky shall supply it at a sacrifice,
selling enough of his produce at a low fixed
price to supply the city, and doing the best
he can with the rest. The cow-cocky replies
that he works shocking hours and toils on
Sundays and holidays because he has to;
that he keeps his wife and children in har-
ness because he can’t pay for hired labor;
that the city unions wink at this because
they want all the good things of this world
to themselves; that he is a small man strug-
gling in a small way, and that his estate isn’t
worth much when he dies, for he is paid
largely in contumely. One alleged reason
for all this is that almost everything in N.
S. Wales is fading except Sydney (and per-
haps Newcastle since the B. H. Proprietary
created big iron works thereabouts), and
that almost everything has to go to Sydney
or through Sydney, and distances eat up
much of the proceeds. Another reason
assigned is that the administration which
comes from Sydney is an inferior article
made by men who wouldn’t know a cow if
they saw it. The complainant adds that to
enact that he shall supply his labor, repre-
sented by butter, below the market rate,
when the supplying of cheap labor is the last
thing that the Sydney unions dream of, is
hypocrisy of tin* deepest dye. It is difficult
to strike an accurate balance in such a case;
still there is one remedy which looks very
obvious, but which the aggrieved cow-men
don’t seem to think of. It is to demand in
a general readjustment of things that Syd-
ney and Melbourne and possibly Adelaide
and Brisbane, and maybe similar places yet
unborn, should be .set up as separate States
•—Free Cities with 200 or 300 square miles
attached after the fashion of the famous
commercial Free Cities which were separate
States of the German Empire. Every great
exporting, importing and shipping centre in
Germany was a separate City State. It
made laws for its commercial and manufac-
turing business which it presumably did
understand, but it didn’t serve out city legis-
lation to cow-cockies, nor did they legislate
for it. No amount of argument is likely to
make a boiler-making Premier from Bal-
main comprehend the agricultural point of
view. Nor will argument make the little
farmer who has to be his own boss, and has
no one to strike against except himself, and
no great option about his hours unless he
is prepared to starve, fit in with the schemes
of city bosses in offices who regard all the
world as a promising field for a new strike
and everybody outside their circle as a capi-
talist to be destroyed. Being incompatible
it is best for them to part, leaving the Fed-
eral authority to exercise a benevolent super-
vision over both. It was on some such basis
as this that London, with an area of 117
square miles, was made a separate county,
with a county council of its own, while the
more or less agricultural part of Middlesex,
that used to contain most of London, set up
its little administration at Brentford.
—
The Man and the State.
A small-State’s man on a big-State’s pro-
vincialism :
Having occasion the other day to mention Justice
Ewing, of Tasmania, the rather wooden Fuller,
leader of the N. S. Wales Nationalists, described him
as “a junior Judge from a junior State.”
I disagree with the Ewing report, but the line of
attack referred to combines an arrogant provincial-
ism with offensive snobbishness. It implies that
Ewing must be an inferior person because he comes
from Tasmania and his critics live in N. S. Wales,
which implication is vulgar and also ridiculous.
Salary and population are, it seems, the tests of a
Judge’s ability. When the Barton Government was
looking for a Chief Justice of the High .Court,
shouldn’t have appointed Griffith, because he be-'*
longed to a B 2 State and received a relatively small
salary; it should have given the job to a Judge in
one of the A 1 States. By a kindred process of
reasoning, Ibsen, who lived in a small country in
the north of Europe, was inferior to the author of
“The Fatal Wedding,” and Maeterlinck, of Bel-
gium, isn’t to be reckoned in the same class with
the late Ella Wheeler Wilcox. Also Lincoln
couldn’t have been much chop, because he was an ill-
paid County Court pleader from Illinois, then a
backwoods State. And when Shakspeare began to
write dramas he was ■ a struggling rustic from a
one-horse Midland county.
In point of fact, there are few Australians better
qualified than Ewing for a job requiring legal
knowledge and experience of affairs. The man has
practised law in three States. He was an M.L.A. in
Westralia, a Commonwealth Senator (one of the first
bunch) and a member of the Tasmanian Parlia-
ment. He was Leader of the Opposition, Cabinet
Minister and then Judge of the Supreme Court. The
Hughes Government recognised his standing when
it commissioned him to inquire into the breakdown
of government in the Northern Territory. That
wasn’t a job for “a second-class Judge from a third-
class State.”
What is a third-class State, anyhow ? Is Tasmania
third-class because it has a relatively small popula-
tion? If so, ancient Greece Was a mean country,
and China is great. Is the Speck third-class because
its people are inferior in intelligence and public
spirit ? No inferiority of that sort can be proved;
there is no evidence that it exists. In all the essen-
tials of citizenship the Tasmanians rank as high as
any other section of Australians: during the war, to
quote one instance, they had the highest proportion
of V.C.’s in the A.I.F. But perhaps it is for other
reasons that their State is third-class. Perhaps it is
because Tasmania lacks the lordly N. S. Wales debt.
Or the reason may be that it hasn’t got a Parliament
like the Legislature which sits in Macquarie-street
and which is the Ma State’s other great contribution
to civilisation. In Tasmania it is not the thing for a
Cabinet Minister to unctuously thank God that he
didn’t go to the war. Able-bodied members of Par-
liament who publicly congratulate themselves on
having saved their skins are not popular. Neither is
it fashionable to justify sedition, to indulge in
accusations of graft, to debate matters of State in
the argot of the Rocks Push, or to make Hansard
a medium for the propagation of villainous attacks
on private individuals. The accident of circumstances


T*l e Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Limited
has deprived Tasmania of a deliberative Assembly
like the Lower House of N. S. Wales. Possibly that
is what Fuller means when he calls it a “junior
State.”
The Mother Who Doesn’t Matter.
No suggestion ever got' much shorter shrift
m the Representatives than Bamford’s to
the effect that when a ballot is taken for or
against a strike the unionist’s wife—the
mother of his children, who will be the
greatest sufferer —should rank as a unionist
and have a vote. That one unmarried alien,
half-man and half-boy, with no ties here
and little knowledge save. that he used to
have a bad time in Russia, should have a
vote in such, a case is a matter of course ;
but when it. came to giving the Australian
mother of an Australian family any say—
well, the long-hour house-drudge With no
fixed wage might as well be a Hindu wife,
the kind who is told to -obey first her father,
then her husband, and finally her sons, and
to die unremunerated and obeying. It is con-
sidered enough that the Australian woman
may help to vote somebody into the House.
As to that House Garden, of the Sydney
Labor Council, defined the position the other
day, when he rebuked the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment for superfluous interference and told
it to mind its own job of making disregarded
laws—he and his colleagues were quite capable
of managing industrial affairs without John
Storey’s interference. Industrial affairs are
the things that concern the worker’s wife.
With a solid hold on them she could let other
things slide. But it seems that such vital mat-
ters don’t really belong to the House represent-
ing over 1,100,000 Australian grown men
and women ip which she has a voice ; they
belong to the body of about 200,000. almost
entirely males, and including a multitude of
aliens and immature persons, which Garden
and others like him claim to represent, and
in which the Australian mother counts for
about as much as a dog. This monstrous
doctrine of the ineffable superiority of the
male alien and the no-accountness of the
local mother calls for revolt.
The Rifle in Modern War.
The conclusions of an ex-permanent officer
of wide experience :
Captain Dakin, secretary of the National Rifle
Association, is again imploring the Government to
waste money on the rifle-club system. Rifle-shoot-
ing is a pleasant Saturday-afternoon sport, but the
rifle has been rendered obsolete in war by the machine-
gun, which can be carried and used by one man,
and since its role is to spray a certain area with
bullets, hose fashion, refined marksmanship is not
necessary. Speak to a dozen Diggers, and probably
half will tell you they never used their rifles in
action; the others will certainly admit that rifle-
fire was heard less and less as the war went on.
In fact, towards the end of the business the weapon
with bayonet attached was principally used as a spear
or pike. When rifles were employed it was almost
always for rapid magazine-fire in the standing posi-
tion, at short range and a moving target, or at a
range and mark called by an officer: the prone, slow,
fixed, bull’s-eye-target, known-range style of club-
shooting was never in requisition.
The club men glibly talk about “sniping the
enemy’s scouts.” If they were real scouts they
would not let more than their heads be seen, and
that only for a second or two. It is humorous to
think of any capable scout being sniped by the
average pot-hunter, with his non-service rifle and its
non-service sights and slings, his own vintage of
ammunition, a known distance, a two-colored target,
a local range, no unusual wind blowing, a nice
clean mound to lie on, no bayonet fixed or other
weighty accoutrements worn, a good meal under the
belt, no one to speak or throw a shadow on the rifle,
a cloudless sky, a notebook to consult, a small box
of paints, pencils, gauges, etc., to use, two minutes
or so per shot, two sighters, and every shot carefully
marked before the next is fired. , With all these ad-
vantages many a clubber will not get a bull’s-eye
all the afternoon if the range is over 600 yards
away. How, then, is he ever going to hit an enemy
scout who, if he knows his business, will be invisible
at a few hundred yards?
Captain Dakin states that 25,000 to 30,000 rifle-
clubbers out of 88,000 went to the Front. During
the war the membership was given as over 100,000,
and 120,000 was once mentioned. Whether one out
of four or one out of five enlisted is immaterial.
The proportion is far less than that of any football,
hockey, tennis, swimming or surf club I know of,
and as all these sports develop several military
qualities, while rifle-shooting trains only one, then
athletic bodies are equally entitled to subsidies and
free grounds, material, travelling and so forth. Ask
any fighting officer of the A.I.F. which he would
rather command, a company formed of footballers
or one composed of rifle-clubbers. Again, many
N.R.A. members who did join the A.I.F. enlisted in
artillery, engineers, A.S.C., A.M.C. and other units,
where their marksmanship was useless. The fact is
that the great majority of our civilian riflemen
are men who were marksmen 10 to 30 years ago,
and have learnt nothing of any military value since,
although they have been spending good Common-
wealth money all the time. Many are too old or
otherwise unfit for active service even in Australia,
and if they were required it would not be in the
front line.
As to snipers, Australia will always produce a
sufficiency of natural marksmen without any subsi-
dised rifle-club system. All other nations do so, any-
how. Sniping, however, is a much over-rated and nasty
business. If one side snipes the other soon arranges
reprisals, and things are usually quits at the
finish. Having himself been sniped by a rifle-
shooting enemy, the writer is not likely to under-
rate the accomplishment. He has also had over 20
years’ direct acquaintance with rifle-shooting, and
has won prizes in cadet, club and military matches,
besides topping the musketry returns of his unit
several times; wherefore he has no prejudice against
the weapon. But civilian club-shooting, considered as
a preparation for war, is not much more useful than
archery. It is a pleasant, desultory, open-air
pastime, but somewhat archaic. It does not keep
a man as fit as golf does, but possibly it is of
equal value to the nation, and should be encouraged
in the same way.
+
A Game of Patience.
“Kopai” : Necessary, no doubt, at election
times, but what a monument of futility in
the years between is the Federal Electoral
Department—that mixture of roll-keeping,
general statistics and secret service! It is
not that its officers do not work. Their work
is ceaseless and endless. But what a sieving
of water the work is! Daily I call on my
divisional returning-oflice, and ever the
D.R.O. and his assistant are entering, cor-
recting, removing names, names, names; in
rough notebooks, in fair copies; on cards,
forms, envelopes, summonses—never ceasing.
The waste of time is in the fact that they
are for the most part the same names: it is
THIS RUSSIAN BUSINESS.
nothing hut an eternal game of patience. In
this electorate the. changes of entry in the
roll amount to about 52 p.c. per annum.
There is much movement of electors: pro-
perty changing hands accounting for much
of it, and every time a renter or owner
changes domicile—it may be only next
door—our modern Danaides have to make
six or eight entries. Every few days the
head office sends for a batch of tiddly-
winking statistics —designed apparently to
provide work for idle officials —and the divi-
sional officers fill folios with thousands more
names and figures, the good to be gained
from the submission of which no fellow can
understand. In between times the un-
rolled, the partly-enrolled, the wrongly-
enrolled, the nearly-enrolled and the recently
off-rolled are checked, chivvied, summoned,
reinstated, denoted, deleted and re-entered —-
all with more writing of names, names!
Women scared to death by fearsome-looking
summons-papers rush down to the office and
faint on the doormat or weep down the
D.R.O.’s neck; men charge in with lurid
protests that they paid their income-tax last
year and want to know what the country’s
coming to that they should be harassed like
this—is it Socialism or what? It really
seems that a suffrage which calls for such
excess of compelling is hardly worth the
trouble and expense, and a crowd of excel-
lent, patient and painstaking officers might
well be drafted to fill the pay-rolls of the
new bureaucracies which are rising from the
Territory, Rabaul, Nauru, Fixed- Prices,
Organised Health and Charity, Defence,
Aviation, Navigation, Industrial Peace,
Coal, Railways, Trams, Pests and Canberra.
“Ballarat”: “D.E.” (B. 26/S/’2O), quot-
ing the trustworthy Knibbs, points out that
few people die of V.D. Yes, that’s just it.
People are not expected to die —not one per-
son is expected to die —of syphilis nowa-
days, unless through gross ignorance and
carelessness. They are expected to live
with the disease, to transmit it and all the
innumerable consequences and side issues,
and then pass out through one of the polite
complications. Cancer kills, definitely and
directly, nearly everybody it touches, and
it sets the credit. The worst thing about
V.D. is that it seldom kills—it rots and
leaves alive. A few patients are registered
as dying of the disease, chiefly because they
went to some quack who made a mess of
the case, whereas a skilled practitioner might
have effected a cure (though with a taint
left behind), or at least preserved the defen-
dant to be a respectable walking sepulchre
to a good old age; but these rare events
happen in rude, cold-hearted public institu-
tions. Very few private doctors wouldn’t
strain a point and blame the death on some-
thing else. There always is something else.
“Accidental drowning.” “incautious use of
firearms” and the taking by accident of an
overdose of something to induce sleep serve
sometimes, and I have known the case of
a man minus part of the roof of his mouth
and the centreboard of his nose having a use-
ful life cut short by pneumonia. Probably he
had pneumonia; anybody in his state would.
But in the main no very violent subterfuge
is necessary. The patient ought to hang-
on legitimately and die legitimately after
being the father of some rickety, eccentric,
unwholesome children with power of appoint-
ment (is that the correct legal term —I
mean the right to pass it on?). For in-
stance, I remember a man who struck the
trouble in comparative youth, and, perhaps
through sheer ignorance, his wife got it
afterwards. The two children were still-
born, one of them with marks of the disease.
The lady took to the drug habit, presumably
to divert her mind and change the subject.
Her death was set down to something
fashionable and complicated, and no one had
the. least desire or reason to dispute the
decision. The husband, after an erratic
spotted career with spellg of disappearance
in it, passed out through heart failure,
which really covers everything and applies
to everything.
“Padjud” : There are several reasons for
the maddening telegraph delays that are con-
stant in Australia, but the chief is the
insane tracks followed by most of the wires.
Recently a Goulburn man sent a message to
a place 20 miles away, saying he would be
out that afternoon. He beat the wire by an
hour. He did not know that that message
travelled via Sydney and Bathurst, being
sent and received six times in the process.
This is typical. As a further sample con-
sider this. A wire from Stanthorpe, on the
Bananaland border, for Tenterfield, 29
miles away on the New South side, gets
there via Brisbane, Sydney and Armi-
dale —400 miles; eight handlings. The
great and ever-increasing volume of
business (mostly about stock movements)
between towns just over the Banana-
land border and N. S. Wales towns
such as Inverell, Moree and Bourke, is all
done via Brisbane and Sydney. This may
have been reasonable enough years ago when
the amount of traffic was trifling; to-day it
is just plain lunacy. The State services
should be linked up in at least two places,
say where the inter-State express crosses
and between Charleville and Bourke. The
N.S.W.-Vic. border exactly duplicates all
this foolishness. Another reason for delay
is the time wasted on lines. Operators are
compelled by fool rules to leave their lines
to attend to dozens of matters in connection
with wires (wrong number of words, etc.),
that could be equally well seen to by mes-
sengers. Meanwhile the line stands idle
and the time of two operators is wasted.
Urgent telegrams, an ever-increasing quan-
tity, also cause delay by throwing out the
routine of the line.
Maurice Phillips, Chief Clerk of the Vic.
Supreme Court and formerly headman of the
A.N.A., has again reminded Victorians of the
public service of their “first great statesman,”
George Higin botiiam, who passed out 28
years ago. No statue has yet been raised to
Higinbotiiam, although there is one to Red-
mond Barry, a far smaller man. Perhaps
if a beginning were made now a memorial
would be ready by the time the centenary of
lliginbotiiam’s birth arrives in 1926. For-
getful of the successful effort Higinbotiiam
made to keep interfering Colonial Secre-
taries and their satellites, including the
“man Rogers,” in their places and to
make self-government a reality instead of a
shadow, Tories have never forgiven him for
contributing £5O in one lump and £lO a
week to the great strike fund in 1890. Natu-
rally they are slow to admit that out of that
commotion sprang the political developments
which to-day are our bulwark against Bol-
shevism and 1.W.W.-ism. But even the Tory
may yet realise that Higinbotiiam did his
bit to keep Propputy’s head on its shoulders
while Propputy itself was blindly trying to
knock it off. The Right Thinkers in Britain
saw the light some years ago. and they made
John Burns a Privy Councillor and put
him in the Ministry.
4
David Lindsay, explorer, writes to the Aus-
tralians who won’t use the country that other
Australians found for them:—
Under the heading of ‘‘Repatriation on Pro-
vincial Lines” (B. 26/8/’2O) you refer to
the opportunity lost to settle and develop
the Northern Territory. Had a sufficient sum
been devoted to building the North-South line, all
the available unskilled labor would have found em-
ployment, and many of the soldiers, those whose
training fitted them, could have been placed on
pastoral leases to breed cattle, horses and sheep.
Others could have been placed on the coastal areas,
growing cotton, rice and other products. The land
would have cost nothing and the profits assured at
from £5 to £2O per acre. I suggested this to the
authorities, and was told that the Repatriation De-
partment did not find the land ; the States did that.
Evidently those controlling the Territory did not
approve of the idea, as nothing has been done. The
only assistance given to returned men making for the
Territory is, I believe, their passage-money to Darwin.
-4.
The born-dead League of Nations is still
heard of occasionally. The Republican appli-
cant for the U.S. Presidency states that his
idea is “a permanent court of international
justice, its decrees being enforceable by
the power of moral suasion and not by
physical force” ; and presumably this grand-
motherly device is the dear old League crop-
ping up again. It seems hardly worth while
making the thing international if it isn’t
going to hit anybody. Six Great Powers that
won’t fight are just the same as 60 police-
men that won’t do anything more violent
than distribute a tract.
- 4 .
A sub-committee of the Medical Congress
at Brisbane made the superfluous remark
that Northern Australia is in the main a
mighty good place for a white man to live
in, and that it ought to be more populated
than it is. The learned body might have
gone further and said that it was a mere
accident that the South was settled at all. The
fact is that in the days when there was noth-
ing but windjammers and charts were as
scarce as white Ethiopians the crowded,
shifty northern .sea was a very active grave-
yard for ships, and navigators preferred to
leave their bones .elsewhere. Now, in the
days of steam, the North should come into
its inheritance. But there is no political
capital up there, and by some pecu-
liar kink in his character the Aus-
tralian never seems to live anywhere except
in or adjacent to a capital; apparently the
bray of the politician passing bills is music
to his ears. Unless a few metropolises are
founded above Capricorn the place will pre-
sumably remain empty till some colored per-
son takes it, and if it was so healthy that
everybody was immortal twice over the fact
would make no difference.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
who would earn over
£5*000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The idea that freedom implies that the
worker shall not work was exemplified in the
recent decision of the N. S. Wales Waterside
Federation to cut out the night shift even at
the sacrifice of extra night-pay. This isn’t
likely to lead to the employment of more
wharfies, for a vessel, whether loading by
night or day, generally employs as many
men as can get af’the job; but it will make
the men’s earnings less and it will cause
vessels to lie idle and earn nothing a good
part of their time. Likewise it will make
Sydney a better place than hitherto to
avoid so far as ships can avoid it, just sis
ships began to cut Townsville out of their
itinerary during the riot days, and as they
have later begun to dodge Darwin and Bris-
bane as places where too many sudden things
happen.
Moved neither by the cooing phrases first
employed nor by the bluster that followed,
Vic. Treasurer McPherson
told Cold Tea in his electo-
rate that he would not vote
for substituting a simple
majority for a three-fifths
majority to carry no-license,
because he regarded the pre-
sent law as a contract till
the first poll is taken ; and he
didn’t care a cucumber (or
words to that effect) whether
h e remained a
member or not.
McPherson at the
same time makes
no secret of his in-
tention to vote no
license, as an elec-
to r. Thus he
snaps his fingers
at Cold Tea and
Bung. In much
the same spirit he
told one crowd
that he wouldn’t
support the Scrip-
ture Referendum
they wanted, and
another crowd
that he is utterly
opposed to a sepa-
rate grant to
please Catholics. As a vote-catcher McPher-
son is no performer at all, but he may get a
walkover all the same, for his honesty.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The Cabinet is talking of sending Senator Millen
as sole Australian representative to the first meeting
of the League of Nations. Hughes badly wanted to
bray at the conference, but the imminence of Willie
Watt has decided him to stay behind. Hughes is by
no means certain that Watt will adopt a passive
attitude. Private advices show that he regards him-
self as the badly-injured party and expects to raise a
row that will weaken the other’s position in the
House. Watt is ambitious, and there are several good
Nationalists who are ready to follow him if he makes
a bold bid for the leadership. On the other hand,
Hughes’s direct following is big enough to make that
proceeding perilous, unless little Willie retires grace-
fully into one of the High Commissionerships that are
yawning for him. The betting is that Hughes will
eventually snap one of the posts and leave Watt in
command of a reconstructed Cabinet. This arrange-
ment, of course, doesn’t dispose of Joe Cook, whose
prestige wouldn’t let him work under Watt, and who
would have to be also soothed with a comfortable
berth abroad.
It is painful to see an enthusiastic Free-
trader heave rocks at his own fetich, but the
ATc. Fair Profits Commission saw that
sorrowful spectacle when the vice-president
of Vic. Hardware Merchants’ Association
assured it that prices of many imported lines
had to be fixed on an unprofitable basis be-
cause of the competition of Australian-made
THE SWINE-BACK.
THE EXTREMIST: “H — ll! If it ain't a
trick-door. The 'order I bogs in the
more I gets knocked back!”
articles. In his anxiety to show that the
hardware chaps were scarcely making a liv-
ing the poor man admitted, in effect, that
Protection reduces prices.
Premier Lawson side-stepped the suggestion
of Tommy Ryan, M.L.A., that his Govern-
ment should consider the operations of a
species of private bank which is springing
up in Melbourne. But the thing could do
with inquiry. The bankers are estate agents
who receive money on deposit at a higher
rate of interest than the banks or any State
loan offer. Their procedure then is to buy
a paddock or two, cut them up into allot-
ments and sell, repaying principal and inter-
est with the proceeds. It may be all right as
long as the boom lasts, but the last boom
Melbourne had didn’t last.
Party doth make liars of them all. When
Bamford, the father of the House of Reps.,
was told by his leaders to jump Jim Crow on
the question of bringing State railway ser-
vants within the Arbitration Court, he plain-
tively observed : “I have always been a good
party hack. I have voted with the Govern-
ment when my sympathies were in quite
other directions. Now they are asking me
to stultify myself again.” Then Bamford
quoted the names of half-a-dozen ex-Labor
Nationalists who had fought hard to bring
railwaymen into the jurisdiction of the Court,
but were now told to follow Hughes in doing
a right-about-face. This time, however, as
it was quite safe to do so, the numbers being
up, Bamford treated himself to the luxury
of following his conscience and voted against
the Government.
In 1914 Launceston Marine Board, need-
ing a dredge, decided to go as far afield
as possible and ordered one in Scotland.
On the way to its job it met the Emden. and
that was the end of it. Five years elapsed,
and being no wiser than before the Board
ordered another dredge from Glasgow.
Dredge No. 2 struggled away from the Clyde
on August 7, and piled up a total wreck
on the coast of Portugal. When the neces-
sary surgical operation has been effected, it
may dawn on the Launceston Marine Board
that there is a shipbuilding industry in its
own country. And there is no Emden in
Bass Straits.
One reason for the pathetic emptiness of
Victorian gaols, save for stone-broke prison-
ers, is that twelfth juryman who always
stands out for a verdict of “not guilty.”
Everybody assumes that he is squared, and
the squaring people are well enough known ;
but they are harder to convict than their
clients. Lingering Lawson, the Premier, has
long had two possible remedies in front oi
him. One is greater secrecy about the jury
panel, so that all the world and his wife won’t
know who are to be summoned; the other is
the Scotch jury of 15 and the majority ver-
dict, for eight men take a lot of squaring.
But Lawson is about as fast as Sydney’s
North Shore bridge, though the language
that judges begin to use about the scandal
would make even a bridge sit up.
Commendatore Grossardi, the new Italian
Consul-General, began work in Australia re-
cently. One of his chief aims is “to direct
here a part of the emigration that the
exuberant, sound
Italian life has always
been able to give to
the world.” At pre-
sent, for whatever
reason, there is not
room for the still
more exuberant and
sound life of immi-
grants of our own
race. Premier Storey,
o f N. S. Wale s.
stated last week, that
there were $OOO un-
employed (3000 o f
them ex-soldiers) in
his State alone. And
the vast majority of
them are men of the
very class which Italy
mostly exports. In
the U.S.A.. for in-
stance,-the Italians —
locally k now.n as
“w o p s”—d o nearly
all the road-malcing
and mending. I n
addition, according to
Italian reports of the
last couple of years,
the proposed immi-
grants are among the
most practised hands
at the business of re-
volution i n Europe.
Taking one thing with
another, it may there-
fore be as well to
suggest to the Com-
mendatore that,
though- this country
needs population, it
doesn’t badly want the sort that Italy seems
not at all unwilling to lose.
Ryan’s move for the inclusion of railway
servants in the new Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Bill reminded old Laborites of the great
moment in 1904 when Andy Fisher climbed
to power over the very same proposal—with
the help of Hughes, Cook, Groom and Boyn-
ton, who helped to out Ryan’s motion the
other day. ' The somersaulting, however,
didn’t cause any excitement. The Hughes-
Cook coalition comprises men of such diver-
gent views that almost every day some of
them have to forget lifelong convictions in
the interests of the party game.
Dr. Harris, the choice of Hayseed, had an
easy victory for the N.E. Province in the
Victorian House of Landlords, and the re-
sult made the Liberals squirm. Harris’s
opponent, Archibald Currie, son of a late ship-
ping magnate, who has big landed interests
in the constituency, was of the type usually
chosen for the crimson benches till the
Farmers’ Union materialised. Apparently
John Bowser and Carlisle read the signs
aright when they decided to march behind
Henry Hayseed. Their Assembly constitu-
encies are part of the big district in which
Harris triumphed.
McGirr, N. S. Wales Minister for Court-
ship, Marriage and Obstetrics, and inventor
of a well-known rabbit poison, is in a diffi-
culty over his child-pension scheme. The
original idea was to subsidise the third and
subsequent children in every family, for if
the pension was only given to those who
needed it the recipients would bear the
“stigma” of poverty. The baby bonus is
paid on this principle to rich and poor alike,
with the remarkable result that in 1917
129,965 babies were born and 132,407 paid
for. On the other hand, old-age and invalid
pensions are supposed to be paid only to the
poor. Theoretically the sick and the well
should have invalid pensions alike, lest it
should be thought that the chronic invalid
became one through his own evil ways, and
rich and poor should be pensioned alike on
pure snob principles. For some reason the
Commonwealth is unadulterated snob as re-
gards the baby, and not as regards the baby’s
grandfather. In the matter of child pen-
sions Minister McGirr proposes to be partly
snob and partly not. The allowance won’t
be paid to all families, for a Government
which is already spending £740,000 a month
more than it receives has its limitations.
The idea is to start the pension, not with the
family which possesses the legal living wage
of £3 17s. per week, for poverty is a dis-
grace, but with the one on £6 per week, for
the extra £2 3s. mitigates the disgrace. It
is a fine distinction—whole snob with the
baby, half-snob with the half-grown child
and plain, unsentimental business with the
old man.
A SHELLBACK’S HYMN OF HATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What did we know, shipmate o’ mine, of War and
his grim, mailed fist
In the days when I sang of the “rights of man ’
and you were a communist?
What did we know of the fiend that lurked behind
a power-drunk throne?
We hailed all men as brothers then, and we knew
no danger-zone.
I mind me well the speeches fine you made in the
’ninety strike,
While I wrote “punk” for a Labor rag, and labelled
it “Marline-spike” ;
And the fire that shone in your keen grey eyes pro-
claimed you straight and true,
When you swayed the mob with words that flowed
from the big white soul of you!
Talk to me not of the Marxian creed I Shall / let
my hatred die
While l see your face in my waking dreams, blind
eyes turned up to the sky f
Shattered and torn by a U-boat shell, stark on the
deck you lay.
If it’s sin to hate, then I’ll chance my fate in the
lists on Judgment Day!
Shipmate o’ mine! Grim cabled tales, you scorned
to believe in these,
Though men cried shame on the German name on all
the seven seas.
You reckoned them “well-faked cable lies,” and
jokingly you’d say
That the Devil would have “some jig-saw stunt” if
a “tin-fish” swam our way!
Then a long grey shape came out of the dawn, ( and
a shell screamed overhead —
Then one that struck the chart-house fair and left
you cold and dead.
The world lost one brave seaman then, and I a
life-long mate—•
I that was spared to curse all Huns and sing this
hymn of hate!
And a man must fight for his hearth and home when
the enemy storms the gate,
And all his love for his fellow-man is swamped in
a wave of hate!
HIE FIRST PREFERENCE.
JUDGE ( after death sentence): "And may
the Lord have mercy on your soul!”
PRISONER: “ Couldn't you make it a royal
commission, your Honor?”
For human nature lias laid it down that blood is the
price of blood —
And his eyes are blind who sears his mind with the
ethics of Boote and Judd!
Shipmate o’ mine, you met your death at the hands
of a murdering thief,
Whilst pacifists drew their craven breath ’neath the
mask of a fool-belief;
And I foster hate in my inmost heart —blind hate
for the filthy Huns,
Who sank lone ships that could not strike back, lone
ships that showed no guns!
“The war is over, shake hands!” they’ve said; but
I see a shambled deck,
Your mangled body your helmsman now a gibber-
ing shell-shocked wreck! .
And it damps the ardor that once I had for the
“brotherhood of man,”
For hate flows free in the soul of me when a Ger-
man face I scan!
And this is a law of the pagan days, a law that we
can’t .unfix:
That a hen will fight when a hawk swoops down to
slaughter her helpless chicks!
And we are all of the pagan breed; and amidst
War's smoke and reek,
We laugh to scorn Christ’s cry forlorn: “Turn ye
the other cheek”!
Shipmate o’ mine, our land may sleep, forgetting the
Huns’ blood-lust,
And pile its guns in a tangled heap to lie till they
rot and rust;
And the world may work on a different plan, but
Peace will never come
Whilst Greed lies sealed in the heart of man with
the print of the pagan’s thumb!
We must train our boys. In their country’s need
they must stand equipped to fight.
Though theorists patter their bastard creed, and
pacifists rant and skite.
For brotherly love is a transient thing that melts
like snow on the ground,
While the old beast nature will snarl and spring as
long as the world goes round.
And this is a lesson the gods taught free, nor
candle, nor book, nor bell
Could drive it out. of the heart o' me: “Hate ye your
enemy well.”
And Hate holds me in a frenzied grip when / think
of those sightless eyes,
In the cold grey dawn, on the shell-swept shiv,
turned up to the smoke-stained skies!
AT SEA.
ALBATROSS.


HUGHES AND HIS NEXT JOB.
“It is stated that Mr. Hughes will not accept the post of High Commissioner in London unless its status is increased.**
BILLY: “Look at it— too small, much too small!”
AUSTRALIA: “It’s not the hat that’s too small, sir —it’s the head that’s too big.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered <BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following ioriu»
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granuiat ),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated). Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay j,
Rearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, at, •>
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosse .
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. BOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. Z
A. J. SMITH, London Manager and Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: G 2 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
When Instructing your Solicitor to draw YOUR WILL
direct him to name
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
as YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the Assets and obtain a degree
of Security for proper Administration far beyond the power of
the private Trustee. An explanatory Booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at Perpetual Trustee Chambers,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Manager: It. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd..
, Dividends. ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. Bp.c! Ordinary. serves, serves.
June £ £ ' £ £ £
191o’. . 4,981 1267 12* p.c.= 2,187 1,527 2,768
1911 3 456 2250 1 „ „ 900 306 3,074
1912.. 8,677 3470 10 » „ 2,250 2,967 6.031
1913.. 11,015 4081 12* „ „ 2.812 4,122 10,153
1914.'. 8.790 3467 12* ~ „ 2,344 2,979 13,132
Co. reconstructed ; £22,600 in new Deficit.
June, snares issued for goodwill .. 9,368
1915.. 19,603 4200 8 p.c. = 7,782 7,621 1,747
Reserves.
1916.. 45,099 4200 15* „ „ 14,248 26,651 24,904
1917.. 26,284 4200 10* „ „ 12,800 9,284 34,188
1918.. 48,153 4200 13 „ „ 17,687 26,266 60,454
Provision for taxes, £7500 .. 52,954
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £73,750 .. 20,796
Additional goodwill item, £3958 . . 24,754
1919.. 32,686 6,114 8 p.c. = 14,526 12,046 12,708
10 p.c.
1920.. 41,716 14,615 10 ~ „ 22,125 4,976 7,732
Ten years ago this co. had a modest paid
capital of £35,000; it has now £373,750. The
business lias expanded so rapidly and the
financing of new premises, more costly
stocks, etc., has put such a strain on the
cash-box that the directors propose to
get in the £120,250 unsubscribed balance of
the nominal capital of half a million —the
limit set only 18 months ago. As in other
industries which were insufficiently protected
against foreign competition, the war gave the
local rubber manufacturers their first big
opportunity. How the Barnet Glass people
rose to the occasion is shown hereunder: —
Gross Revenue
(after paying
for labor and Trade
materials). Expenses.
1910 .. .. £21,792 £16,325
1913 .. .. 44,569 33,553
1918 .. .. 162.332 114,179
1920 . . . . 181,595 142,184
How very different would be the Common-
wealth’s outlook if most of its industries
had expanded to anything like the extent the
rubber manufacturing industry has ! Except
for Customs duty and trifling Celling and dis-
tributing charges the Commonwealth gets
not even a thank-you for patronising the
imported article. The figures above, giving
only the gross profits and trading expenses,
indicate what the Barnet Glass Co.’s expan-
sion has meant to the Commonwealth.
Besides the new jobs it has directly provided
for Australians, helping to make room for
the new population the Commonwealth must
have if it is to hold this continent, its acti-
vities are providing employment in countless
other directions.
From a first glance at the preliminary
table the directors would appear to have
somewhat overstepped the bounds of pru-
dence by distributing all but about £5OOO of
the year’s £41,716 net profit. But not un-
likely that £41.716 does not represent all
the profit which was visible at June 30. The
directors admit that they have been some-
what scared by the continued heavy advance
in prices of almost everything except raw
rubber (and apparently that is not going to
be so cheap in the early future), but, while
having no option but to pile up costly stocks,
“what may be regarded as a reasonable pro-
vision has been made to meet a probable
decline.” The actual profit depends on what
the £312,595 of stocks will prove to be worth.
If the co. is able to maintain its prices over
the period of slump, no damage will result,
and it will be the better off to the extent of
the provision it has made. But these are
parlous times, moving this co.’s chairman,
“Teddy” Dyason, of Bendigo, to a few words
of sound commonsense: —
It must be pointed out that the increase in price-
level is due to wide-world causes —primarily the
inflation of currency—and although a period of ris-
ing prices is usually one of increasing profits, the
insecurity and industrial unrest thus caused and
the reduced purchasing power of these profits bv
far outweigh any advantage gained. The wholesale
manufacture of money without corresponding increase
of real production is a great detriment to stable
progress, and when it has reached the point, as in Aus-
tralia, where the currency of the country is on a
fluctuating paper-basis, the difficulties are increased.
It is the violent fluctuations of price-level, whether
up or down, and not any particular' level, that is
bad. This swollen but depreciated money-fund is
a fact, and it would be equally disastrous either
to continue to increase it or to make an attempt
to suddenly curtail it to pre-war dimensions.
When the money circulation of a country has
been greatly expanded by paper issues and credit
processes without a corresponding increase of real
goods produced, destruction of the old price-
standards not only causes extravagance and hectic
speculation, but, through a misunderstanding of the
process, greatiy increases the friction that exists
between the parties to industry. In this condition
which now faces us, it is foolish .perhaps to hope
or to fear too much from one experiment in improv-
ing the relations between shareholder and employee,
but it is more foolish to do nothing at all.
So the Barnet Glass Co. is trying to interest
its employees in the business in the same
way as Dvason has captured the affections
of the diggers in the Amalgamated Bendigo
mines. At June 30 500 employees held 6000
shares, and since then 100 more employees
have decided to seek scrip. In addition to
the general div. on these staff shares the co.
is paying a bonus of 5 p.c., insures members
for £25 per head, and a regular medical ser-
vice in the factory is now being inaugurated.
It is a small beginning of a considerable co-
partnership scheme, and Dyaspn believes the
association of employees will become a
“powerful healing agent” in years to come.
Evidence of how growth of business and
high prices have enlarged the balance-sheet
figures is given in the next comparison.
191.5. 1917. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . £46,076 £113,984 £202,294 £229,962
Freeholds . . 21,297 33,194 36,450 65,710
Plant etc .. 36,942 53,432 65,227 102,337
Book’debts .. 49,918 69,322 75,471 122,745
Stock " 74i591 18L845 362,580 312,595
Cash, etc. .. 8,789 6,600 10,296 15,013
The co. during the year added to its Mel-
bourne premises and its Footseray factory,
and also acquired a freehold in Adelaide, ihe
new capital now being got in will, of course,
reduce - the present heavy proportion ot lia-
bilities in relation to funds. The first table
shows a deficit of £7732, for against the
goodwill item of £22,500, introduced into the
balance-sheet when the co. reconstructed a
few years ago, there is still only £14,708 of
visible reserves. Rut that £14,768 does not
represent the whole amount in excess of divi-
dend-distributions which has been left in the
business. Less than two years ago five times
that amount of stored-up profit was converted
into scrip, making the present 10 p.c. div.
the sweeter.
«• * * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Writ-
ten To Be- Ke-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1908.. 10.373 £5/8/4 p.c. = 5,417 4956 12,044
1909.. 5/16/8 „„ 5,834 1400 3384 15,428
1910. .12,655 7/8/4 „ „ 7,083 2448 3124 18,552
1911.. 14.123 7/18/4 „„ 9,233 1026 3864 22,416
1912.. 16.936 9/11/8 „ „ 11,979 1813 3144 25,560
1913.. 17 451 10 „„ 12,500 1500 3451 29,011
1914.. 18,077 10 „ ~ 12,500 1500 4077 33,088
1915.. 14.442 10 „ ~ 12,500 1942 35,030
1916[.15 732 10 „ „ 12,500 1242 1990 37,020
1917.. 10’639 10 „ „ 12,500 2000 2039 39,059
1918! [ 20 006 10 ~ ~ 12,500 5000 2506 41,565
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 29,065
Prefs. Writ-
CS p.c.) Ordinaries, ten Off.
1919. .21,562 £417 10 p.c. =£13,125 £2Bll f gl 274
Taxation reserve.. .. 3000 j
Assets written up, £lO,OOO .. *1.274
Transferred to capital, £27,500. . 13,774
1920. 2000 12ip.c.= 17,706 3000 I 16,598
Taxation reserve.. .. 3000 i
The first column of that table is eloquent of
the loan and paper-money orgy which this
country is having. In such conditions the
public thinks it is better off than it really
is and decides that it can afford to buy
things it had previously only dreamed of.
The rag trade is invariably one of the first
to benefit. So the Mutual Store has become
one of the dams into which a little of rhe
flood-waters have flowed. It has been quite
embarrassing for this co.’s Board, because
the past year’s profits represented almost
17 p.c. on the actual capital put up by share-
holders. As substantial reserves had already
been accumulated, the directors decided to
find an outlet through which some of the
abnormal profits could be passed . to the
shareholders without making the div. rate
look excessive. They have now admitted that
they did very much better during recent
years than they had acknowledged, so fit-
tings and plant, which, it seems, had been
written down heavily, were “conservatively
revalued,” and £lO,OOO of internal reserves
were brought to light. This together with
£17,500 of reserves has been employed to
increase the ordinaries’ scrip interest by 20
p.c. on a capital which had only a year be-
fore been enlarged 10 p.c. in a similar man-
ner. At the same time, to provide for busi-
ness extensions, the directors also got in
£22,359 of cash frQm shareholders. All this
happened only a few weeks before the
accounts closed, so the new capital (cash
paid and bonus issue) received p.c. for
one month only. In view of their admission
that large amounts of profit have been
socked away during recent years it would
not be surprising if the £28,530 does not
represent the past year’s actual profits. If
unassailable assets such as fixtures and plant
have been written down hard, it is scarcely
likely that the directors have not given some
attention to protecting the expensive stocks
and providing more than usual support for
the large volume of book debts. Another view
of how customers have crowded the Mutual
Store counters is given by this comparison
of gross profits, shown less provision for bad
and doubtful debts :
1914 .. £60,860 -1918 .. .. £68,745
1916 .. .. 58,798 1919 .. .. 79,037
1917 .. .. 61,462 1920 .. .. 97,655
It is no use talking of profiteering. There is
not the slightest doubt that many retailers
are charging excessive prices for some of
their scarce goods, which are in heavy de-
mand. But the real trouble is deeper-seated;
so long as a disordered national Treasury
encourages waste and extravagance so long-
will rag merchants and others be in a posi-
tion to continue to show an abnormal turn-
over of high-priced goods. But such con-
ditions cannot continue —unless a wave or
genuine prosperity follows on the heel of the
present artificial one. Bounteous seasons,
fat prices for our produce and hard work
alone can bring that about. But hard,
steady work is about the last thing an arti-
ficially-prosperous public will entertain.
This comparison shows in another way how
the Mutual Store has expanded during the
past five and 10 years:—
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . £84,454 £59,330 £69,742 £90,047
Prooertv . . 103,625 103,625 103,625 103,625
Plant etc. .. 13,187 12,107 17,611 24,750
Stock’ . . • • 64,082 79,545 104,540 142,518
Book debts .. 26,948 28,222 44,536 50,899
Cash . . - • 300 2,111 6,307 18,503
Paid capital is £212,359—£25,000 8 p.c. pref.
capital; the rest ordinary. To represent that
there are net liquid assets with a book value
of £121,874 and fixed assets set down as
worth £128,375. That shows £225,249 of
assets at the balance to represent the
£147,359 of cash put into the business.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June. Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1908.. £3631 9 p.c. = £2386 £1245 £8,079
1909.. 2712 8 ~ ~ 2121 591 8,670
1910.. 2923 8 „ „ 2121 802 9,472
1911.. 3743 9 „ „ 2386 1357 10,829
1912.. 4193 10 „ „ 2651 1542 12,371
1913.. 5496 15 „ „ 3977 1519 13,890
1914.. 6131 10 „ „ 2651 2480 16,370
Written off, £5OO .. 15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 3691 10 ~ ~ 2651 1040 19,005
1917.. 4829 10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 .. 983
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 6799 9 „ „ 4295 ) 6Q4 3(190
Voted to Provident Fund, £lOOO J
1920.. 6363 9 p.c. = 4295 1 10C8 4>2 58
Provident Fund, £lOOO j
Capital has been feeling nervous in Queens-
land since the Theodore-Fihelly crowd suc-
ceeded with its so-called “Repudiation” Act;
but perhaps that has helped rather than in-
jured this co. The old personal trustee may be
a satisfactory caretaker of his dead friend’s
belongings when it is merely a matter ot
collecting income and passing it on to bene-
ficiaries. But the old order of things has
passed ; not only does Capital in the iNortn-
ern State feel that its position is less secure
than it used to be, but taxation difficulties
have added to the problems of trusteeship.
Consider how this co. has strengthened its
position to meet the altered conditions. Over
two years ago the directors engaged a taxa-
tion expert, Maurice Herring, a Vic. barrister
who, having gone north seeking health, had
joined the Federal Taxation service shortly
after it was established in 1915, and had
later become Gas Referee under the Queens-
land Gas Act. He is now manager of the co.,
F. A. Blundell, after 25 years in the job,
having moved up to be managing-directoi.
Having in this way assured its clients that
their taxation affairs are in capable hands,
the co. is now making its trusteeship more
attractive for country clients. Its pastoral
interests have expanded rapidly, and to secure
efficient management in that direction and
maintain “regular oversight” of operations
the directors have appointed Wm. Kent and
C. W. Mitchell, two widely-known station
managers, to act as referees and inspectors.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd., is now in its
33rd year. When it had been in business
30 years it administered estates worth only
£472,000. Going back to its 20th year pro-
gress has been as follows: —
1908 .. £1,528,345 I 1918 .. £4,049,378
1910 . . 2,135,244 | 1919 . . 4,390,463
1915 .. 3,382,095 | 1920 .. 4,770,752
So estates in hand have more than trebled
since 1908, when the co. had been going 20
years. The recent expansion has been the
more remarkable because a public trustee has
also been in the field ; but probably owing to
unsettled political conditions, that office has
not attracted many large, profitable estates,
while its existence may have helped to adver-
tise the advantages of discarding the old
personal trustee, who doesn’t enter into bonds
to be of good behavior. This co.’s protection
to clients comprised, after latest divs. had
been paid, £49,700 of almost immediately-
available funds, and £156,550 of uncalled
capital.
The co.’s business is expanding so well
that shareholders are, of course, getting a
splendid return. The past year’s profits
were easily a record, but earnings have lately
been assisted by commissions from unusually
active land dealing on behalf of clients. Even
after allowing for the thousand set aside for
a staff provident fund, the past year’s net
profits showed 14 p.c. on the paid capital of
£45,450: and £20,200 of that capital repre-
sents reserves transferred only a couple of
years ago. The 9 p.c. div. under these circum-
stances is very sweet, particularly so when
the security for funds is considered. The
directors recently secured a property adjoin-
ing the present premises to provide for expan-
sion of the business, and freeholds now have
a book value of £35,400 against which there
is a mortgage of £6500. TV ar Loan, cas ,
etc.? total £22,266, and £2199 is m “secured
loans, investments and sundry debtors.
j. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney: To Re _ Re
Profits Dividends. serves, serves.
ir”; :: IS? *:::: ;??« -
W 14.. up ;» •• - I’lll
Dec., 1914.. 1851 » .» „„„ ~ 7 302
June, 1915.. 2023 t „ ~ v’7l9
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7„ „ 1982 417 <,719
June, 1910.. 2243 10 „ ~ 7130
Dec., 1916.. 2832 10 „ „ 2832 _
June, 1917. . 2802 10 ~ ~ 9 g 4 7’4ii.
? eC “ till' 3 5 0” ;; 2832 .303 7,717
June, 1918.. Jloo ~ ft 071 ft 091
f ec - lon JJ ” ;; 2832 239 5’,330
June, 1919.. «iu/i »» » r QOO 7 0 9 0-119
rv iftin q/ti a in 2832 /oZ
June, I'92S:: 5088 10 „ „ 3021 2067 11,1 <9
Because leather prices had soared to unpre-
cedented heights, at the December balance
this pioneer leather-manufacturing concern
was leaning on its banker for £lO,-74. 1
city premises having been damaged by hie,
the management decided to remodel and en-
large them, and also to acquire a new fac-
tory To finance the more expensive stocks
and meet the outlay on buildings the direc-
tors have issued 22,656 new £1 Bbores, in-
creasing subscribed capital from £56,644 to
£79 300. At June'3o £12,080 ot this new
capital had been got in, and the balance-
sheet figures had moved as under (the figures
for 1914 are also given to show the progress
made since just prior to the war)
June, 1914. Dec., 1919. June, 1920.
CaDital .. £56,644 £56,644 £68,727
Liabilities 1 001 17,756 10,240
Freeholds 8 .. 17,Z0S 15,966 19,916
Plant etc . . 3,896 3,120 2,835
Stocks 37,839 49,401 48,288
800k S Debts :: 7 024 14,015 18.101
Cash, etc. .. 952 4,789 5,174
The leather-belting industry has had a very
good time lately, for not only have the local
concerns secured a stronger footing at home,
but they are developing an export trade or
considerable promise. The past half’s profits
were easily a record. Six months ago it
would have been easy for a management
handling leather to have shown large figures
by including stocks at their then greatly-,
appreciated values. But since overseas oper-
ators ceased their attentions theie has
been a heavy slump in market prices. This
co. did not attempt to decorate its balance-
sheet with boom trimmings, but kept its
stock-sheets well within the bounds of safety.
So the directors have been able to report
that the past half’s good profit has been pos-
sible after making full allowance for depre-
ciation of plant, etc., providing for doubtful
accounts and showing stocks as ‘valued in
keeping with the recent decline.”. The profit
was so handsome that the margin in excess
of the 10 p.c. div. is larger thap the amount
by which reserves had been built up during
the previous 7i years. # #
Standard Rubber Co., of Selangor,
Ltd. —The prospects of shareholders in this
Sydney co., which runs a 1193-acre rubber
estate‘at Kajang (F.M.S.), are brightening
rapidly. Progress over the past four years
has been as follows :
Planted Rubber Net
(acres). Production. Profit.
1917 . 792 J 135,6581 b. £5,078
1918 . . 7924 210,2601 b. 4,036
1919 . \ .. 7924 262,3861 b. 4,226
1920.. .. 1082 281,3501 b. 10,344
During the war years the rubber market
was very sick, but prices have looked up
and show promise of still further improve-
ment. During this co.’s 1919 financial year
it probably realised under Is. 6d. per lb.
for its product; the directors now state that
they have arranged forward sales of 54 tons
at prices exceeding 2s. 7d. Though the past
year’s net profit, after allowing for the prefs.
div., represented a 28 p.c. return on ordinary
capital, the ordinaries get no div., nor do
the prefs.’ receive their current div. Until
during the past year the 12 p.c. prefs. had
not had any div. at all, but all arrears to
March, 1919, totalling 45f p.c. (£6097),
have now been met. Profits have been used
to assist development, and at the balance the
co. was in the comfortable position of having
£4115 surplus liquid assets, almost wholly
cash and stocks (included at a f.o.b. cost of
just over Is. per lb.), with which to finance
current operations. The estate is in healthy
condition, and, since good prices are assured,
provided nothing untoward happens, the cur-
rent year should be a good one for the co.
and ordinaries should get their first taste
—and not a poor crumb, either. The
management now hopes to get the f.o.b. cost
down to lOfd. per lb., and on a 300,0001 b.
estimated output, averaging, say, 2s. 6d.
per lb., that means a working profit of
about £25.000. At March 31 only 25 acres
of the cultivable area remained to be planted,
but so far only seven-twelfths of the plant-
ings are in bearing. So, if the rubber mar-
ket holds up and the trees continue in good
health and escape cyclonic disasters, there’s
a fine feast ahead.


Dalgcty 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
ThePadfic Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily-
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain ... 3/- 1/6
yew Zealand.. 4Jd.
/ 9d. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Danada
2/4
1/2
j 7d. (minimum
> 11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and ' Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Res-ulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. Citv 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. :
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [1
* * * *
The man who leaves little to be desired may be
cither a paragon of virtue or a burglar. The roof-
ing that leaves little to be desired is Adamax
Asphaltum Roofing. It is a twentieth-century roof-
ing, absolutely unaffected by time, rust, atmospheric
acids and chemical fumes. The most serviceable
roofing for bungalows, factories, garages, farm build-
mgp, etc., costing less than the price of iron and
less for freight charges. For further particulars
write to William Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
and Adelaide.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August. 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of 8in. wood pipes (for pressures of 350ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory,
'fhey are giving good results. Yours faithfully.
(Sgd.) H. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (H.O.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you a n idea worth patenting!
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
♦ • . .
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from 1} to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * #
T. H. Palmer, B.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
l, or write for Particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 26a George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt
“Airostyle”
Paint Spraying' Unit
Cuts down painting’ costs enormously tor big work—
used in large factories. Write
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings, Cr. Queen and
Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne. Telephone: Central 4031.
G 1 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting;.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI (Q. SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
HEAD
Manufacturers of “VALI/O” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPOND RVCF. IXVTTKD.
Inchcape wasted no time establishing his
P. & 0. Bank. The concern was proposed
in January and began operations in London
two months ago, practically the whole of
its 2% millions of issued capital having been
paid up. According to a statement at a
recent meeting of shareholders Inchcape is
not looking further than India at present.
There he proposes to open branches at Cal-
cutta, Bombay, Madras and Karachi with-
out delay.
The extensive boring campaign carried out
on the Styx River north of Rockhampton
(Q.) is producing results which promise
that it will be a coal-field of first importance
in. the near future. The site is excellent,
being only 80 miles north of Rockhampton,
right on the Great Northern Railway ex-
tension. which has now pushed past St.
Lawrence, with deep water only about ten
miles away. One shaft is down in rather
disturbed country, and by working one seam
the product is paying for practically all the
diamond drilling that is being done. Eight
bores have gone down so far, the deepest
being 860 ft., and have proved that the dis-
turbed country is local. The later bores have
disclosed six seams of workable thickness,
one of 9ft., another of 4ft., and the remainder
from 2ft. Oin. to 4ft., or a total of about 28ft.
without bands. Safe estimates of quantities
must await further boring, but, on the
accepted basis that 1000 tons per acre can
be won for every foot of coal, there are some-
thing like 20,000,000 tons per square mile.
The quality is good; the ash percentages
of the six seams range from 4.2 to 9.6,
and the following is an average of six
analyses from the six seams: moisture, 1.8
p.c.; volatile hydrocarbons. 26.3; fixed car-
bon, 64.0 p.c.; ash, 7.9 p.c. Comparing it
with N. S. Wales coals (using Pittman’s
tables) it approaches closely to the South
Maitland coals for high quality, and is
superior in ash content to the Bulli product,
which it most closely resembles in composi-
tion. It is, therefore, a very clean steaming
coal. The laboratory tests show it to be a
high-class coking and non-clinkering coal.
It is hard and low in sulphur, therefore tiptop
for bunkering. It is now being tested by the
Australian Navy. The six seams occur in
400 ft. of strata, and further geological work
and drilling are necessary to determine the
limits of the field. It promises to be the
best high-class coalfield opened up in the
Commonwealth since South Maitland.
* * * •
“G. Arden Hill” gives the miners' view:—
The practitioner (B. 26/8/’2O) who inclines to
the opinion that “miner’s eye” is not attributable
to the illumination provided by the safety-lamps
now used may be strongly entrenched theoretically,
but practical experience cannot be put aside. These
lights have a dazzling and blinding effect, and for
this reason miners, when travelling in or out of a
pit, always shade their lamps with a slip of paper
or piece of tin, so that those behind may have a
clear view ahead from their own light. ' Many a
man following an unshaded light, even 100 yards
in front, has severely bumped his head because of
his inability to see the roof. In the working places
the use of shades is impracticable, and miners are
frequently bothered in their work by the shadows
thrown by the side-bars and hood of the lamp, and
the dazzle from their mate’s lamp across the bord.
No such inconveniences were experienced with the
naked tallow lights.
It may be news to many that the use of safety-
lamps is not compulsory under the N. S. Wales
Coalmining Regulation Act. At the recent Mt.
Kembla inquiry at Wollongong, William Humble,
lnspector of Collieries, said that if the
Kembla management decided to introduce naked
lights in that mine the Government inspector could
not stop it.
Recently the miners’ secretary wrote to the Mines
Department re the increase of nystagmus, and has
received a reply stating that the Agent-General in
London has been requested to forward samples of
the best oil safety-lamps and electric safety-lamps
in order that they may be tested here. But if
nystagmus is prevalent in Great Britain what’s the
use ? Is it not possible nowadays to so perfect
ventilation and its control as to render naked lights
safe ? The miners would welcome the reversion.
* * * »
The Anglo-Persian Oil Co. is getting a
move on at Vailala (Papua) under Lister-
James, and hustle is the order now at for-
merly-restful Upoia. The rigs are being
shifted to more promising sites nearer the
mouth of the Vailala River, and exploration
of the petroliferous belt proceeds steadily
under the direction of the staff of geologists.
Up-to-date plant is on the way to the field.
“Yard Arm”: Teddy Dyason’s statement
that the Bendigo Amalgamated Co. is to go
into other walks of life besides dragging low-
grade quartz from more or less worked-out
mines is more talked about on Pall Mall
than the Badak slump. But even if Amal-
gamated had no £lOO,OOO surplus of liquid
assets in addition to its £lOO,OOO of plant
and a stack of proved and probable ore re-
serves, Dyason’s creative faculty would be
at work to carve out a fresh destiny for it.
He is already credited with having a finger
in most Bendigonian industrial pies, but
how he hopes to utilise his mine organisation
in enhancing the business of the old field is a
little secret he 'does not disclose just yet. The
truth is that Dyason’s three years’ work in
the five square miles of the central lines has
again demonstrated that the old miner knew
his job sufficiently well not to leave many
slabs of good-grade stuff about. The only
real vvinner picked up has been the Con-
stellation, though jobbing on the side-lines
gives good prospects at the Derby, Monu-
ment Hill and Paddy’s Gully formations.
If the law of Bendigo averages operates, the
field may get a buck-up through the opening
up of a mine or two in these quarters, and
Dyason is hazarding a bit that his luck will
stick to him there. But poor dirt will mean
smaller battery returns and heavier costs.
These factors, labor’s latest wages demands
and the low purchasing power of gold as
expressed in commodities are the forces that
are putting Dyason’s back against the wall.
His speech to shareholders was, after all,
really a requiem over the mining industry
at Bendigo.
Chiltern Valley, the last of Vic.’s big
alluvial mines, drags along in a small way.
During its life it has won gold worth
£1,201,184. Shareholders have had £237,030
in divs., the mine wages bill tots up £593,710,
timber fuel, etc., £100,585, while £217,901
has gone in mining material and £10,732 in
plant. These figures are typical of the
Cabbage Garden’s big mines of the past, and
their disappearance accounts for much of
the decadence of the industry. The mine last
half-year yielded 21380 z. gold from 3091
fathoms of lead. With gold at standard
value Chiltern Valley would have made a
loss, but £3896 of gold premium flowed in.
So the £B5l owing to the Government was
wiped out, and a small div. was paid, leaving
the old cash reserve of £3OOO intact. The
eastern end of the mine has only about 3300
fathoms of wash that may yield a profit, but
in the western end 2700 ft. of the gutter re-
mains virgin. It ought to pay, but with
costs still abnormal and the A.W.U. asking
for higher wages, the job of draining and
blocking out the rest of the lead may not be
gone on with. Unless conditions change the
Itutherglen field looks to be very close to
its end.
* * * *
Some big changes are noticeable in the
latest Oroya Links (W.A.) accounts. Dur-
ing the past year the directors realised on
the co.’s holding of Burma Corporations and
bagged £73,060 over and above the value at
which the scrip had stood in the books.
\Y ith this windfall the old development and
exploration account of £17,608 has been ex-
tinguished, plant has been written down by
£3354 and the purchase price of mining-
properties has been reduced by £42 097
The directors declare that the assets have
now been got down to a figure which “may
be considered as fairly representing their
real value,” and the realisable value of
assets at the balance represented almost 2s.
Od. per 5.5. share. After the vacuum-clean-
ing, there still remained £lO,OOO of the sur-
plus from the Burma Corporation deal to
swell reserves. Shareholders have not had
a taste since the 5 p.c. distributed in 1914;
and, though the directors wanted to quench
their thirst with portion of the realisations
from investments, the co.’s Articles forbid.
But with the aid of the gold premium and
the accumulated P. & L. balances over some
years they are hoping to scrape enough to-
gether to pay something on the 1,150,000
shares at an early date.
♦ * * «
Several gold discoveries ivhicli have not
amounted to anything have been made in
the Darling Ranges (W.A.) during the past
25 years, and now another is announced.
This time a Digger claims to have found and
hid a specimen before gqing to the war, and
on his return to have obtained stone assay-
ing from . lOdwt. -to an ounce. A couple
of politicians have joined the prospector
and are now testing the find. These hills
run north and south at the back of Perth,
and colors can be got in a number of places’
There was a rush to North Dandalup, 50
miles south of Perth, in the early ’nineties
and another later on at Donnybrook. But!
despite a lot of tall talk about prospects and
possibilities, nothing payable was found at
either place. Similar attempts elsewhere
have also proved unsuccessful.
* * * *
By putting the Westhope Eureka block on
the market during the Westralian boom
Golden Butterfly got 20,000 paids. These
don’t count for much now, but £750 that
was netted in cash counted for a lot. for it
helped the co. to develop its Banker property.
The lode has been got in No. 1 shaft, first
in a crosscut at 139 ft. and next at 180 ft.,
where 7ft. averages 19dwt. A swap has
been made of plant with the old Marvel
Loch, so the co. has the battery power needed
to show if the reef can live up to assay
values now that hard-country conditions
exist.
W gba : I can fervently endorse every
word from “Good Australian” (B. 5/8/’2O)
regarding the causes affecting the rapid
decline of our goldfields as applicable to the
most important goldfield Queensland had, viz ,
Charters Towers. “Bad office-direction,
ignorant mine management, directors ignorant
of mining, geology and metallurgy”—all
these terms fit tightly. And “Good Aus-
tralian might have added, with truth, the
&. r j: ec * 3 directors and shareholders, who sac-
rinced their mines in the race to get rich
quick, to the ultimate loss of the country,
ihe bald fact is the Towers mines are only
picked over; but the position is hopeless now
they are all closed down, in a flooded condi-
tion, and with present high costs. Blane.
of Johannesburg, commissioned by the
Queensland Government in 1599 to advise
on the field, stated the bare fact when he
said costs were notoriously high and manage-
ment and administration faulty. He made
recommendations, but next to nothing was
done ’ °ld Brilliant Extended did make
an effort, and showed what could be done
when it reduced its costs to 335. (inclusive
of mining and treatment), and it was the
only mine on the field that made 12dwt.
stuff pay over a period of years. Costs at
other big mines were at the time running
to 60s. and 70s. a ton. Some of the biggest
producers did not run their own mills, but
paid 10s. a ton to customs mills —an item
that should have run to 4s. In one instance
ii directors of a large mine con-
trolled the mill during the crushing, and thus
drew two tributes from their own ore One
can only stand aghast at such docility on
the part of the mine shareholders. Hundreds
of thousands of tons of low-grade ore remain
underground in the workings, running from
ridwt. to lOdwt., and the figures would run
into millions if the unworked veins and lodes
were included. Even in the last 10 or 15
years the field might have been rescued by
trained chemists and engineers, but the old
crew didn’t bother much about averaging
ores, there were no assay plans, no sys-
tematic sampling, no development of ore
reserves, and the directors (with one or two
exceptions) provided no financial reserves.
The riches were picked out in spots, and a
few fortunate ones made fabulous rises,
thus a progressive mining city of 28 000
people is now languishing with 11,000, and
the industry is stone-dead.
* * * *
Sardine tin (N.Q.) has opened up so well
that after under eight months’ work it has
produced four “sprats” for shareholders,
is nice the beginning of the year one tunnel
has been put into the hillside to connect with
the workings at 4t>ft. and facilitate truck-
ing to the gravitation tramway; another
tunnel has been started to intersect the lode
at. 160 ft., about 30ft. under the present shaft
bottom. During the half-year 264 tons ore,
got mostly from development work, gave 81
tons black tin. and the accounts show a net
profit of £28.12. Since the books closed a
further 25 tons black tin have been sold and
2s. per share has been paid on the 40,000
shares, 25,000 of which are contribs. paid to
12s. 6d.
* * * *
Six months ago Elsmore (N.S.W.) came
to the conclusion that its lode formation was
not worth bothering about. Now it has
worked out all its surface ground, and is
looking for a buyer for portion of its sluic-
ing and pumping plant. The good prices
offering for such gear should assure some-
thing for .shareholders. Meantime the No. 1
plant has been biting its way through to
Penberthy’s lead, where better results are
expected. But costs at Elsmore are very
high: the 17,350yd5. treated by the No. 1
plant during the past half-year averaged
over the lb., but working expenses ran away
with over 17d. per yd., about sd. more
than 12 months go. After allowing
for depreciation, the six months’ profit
was only £126, and since the previous
couple of terms had resulted in a
loss the P. and L. balance is still on the
wrong side to the extent of £395. How-
ever, the co. was in a comfortable enough
position at J une 30: it owed only £166, and
showed liquid assets of £1025, over half being
cash in hand.
* * * *
The Speck will evidently have to wait a
few years before iron-mining commences.
Hoskins Bros, do not propose to operate their
Mt. Agnew deposit for some years, and have
informed the Government that, while agree-
able to enter into any reasonable freight
arrangement from the mine to Strahan.
they will not be requiring the railway for at
least three years. The Rio Tinto Co. has
managed to interest S’Henry Jones in
their hematite blow, and London is to be
approached. Since the Commonwealth turned
down the Blythe River deposits, interest in
that field has been quite dead.
Speck Government Geologist Keid has
been sizing-up the Mt. Nicholas coalfield,
where the Cornwall, Nicholas and Fingal
mines operate. He estimates that the eieht
known seams extend over an area of 5000
acres and contain 100.000,000 tons. The
present daily output is a mere 250 tons.
Chief-geologist Hills has also been investi-
gating a deposit recently 're-opened near
George Town. As a result of recent activi-
ties Tasmanian coal stocks have been in bet-
ter demand than at any time for many years.
Endurance (Tas.) is in full swing, hav-
ing cleaned-up the old partly-worked ground
and entered a rich virgin deposit. The co.
owns 700 acres of terraces and flats adjacent
to Alt. Cameron, and, by working on the
i' e i ■ water system, is experiencing no
difficulties. From the partly-worked ground,
hacked about during the past 40 years by
Chinese and others whenever the water-
supply was sufficient for a little ground-
sluicing, just on 110 tons of high-grade tin
oxide have been won by the co.
A new sluicing venture, the Laffer Co., is
Wol ‘k a 60-acre claim at Welborough
(las.). The area is claimed to average a
pound, and it is easy ground. Water is now
being led on to the property with a view to
immediate working.
* * * *
Dreadnought-Boulder (Tas.) during the
half-year ended June crushed only 1294 tons
ore for a return of 5J tons tin oxide, a re-
covery of 0.3 p.c. State Mining-Engineer
Levings is looking into the matter of the
more efficient treatment of the pyritic ore of
the district.
* * * .
Diamond production in S’Africa for 1919,
fostered by abnormal conditions and the
tendency among the chosen to convert their
cash into “international currency,” was the
highest in value for many years. The total
production recorded was 2,588,000 carats,
worth over Ilf millions, compared with
£7,115,000 for 1918, the average value per
carat having improved from £6 14s. to
£l3 Is.


At tender ag<z Benny BunKtn
is /ircd with fhe ambition
to be r-Come an M. P
H* a Minister and His mind is made up
He qchz.s
diligently to
School.
And ponders
over Hansard.
He makes
Speeches,
and cultivates'
the graces
Finally vvins Se^t
- W dropp.ng, .hfc P^rW^t. /irujs thid
this is how ttvzv Save }f>e Country
DISILLUSION.


&
m
■J H C.
‘/reparec/-
ABBOTS
LAGER
CJAo tyrmk JJour Gue?ts
%Jjf/ Appreciate
BREWED mon
PURE HALTfe HOPS' ONLY
J22L.
<Deatt
sd
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage ?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?.
• You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE C 0„ Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfHNQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHKJSSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
W. D. S. MacDonald, who became leader
of the Liberal party in Maoriland when Joe
Ward took the count, dropped in his tracks
last week. MacDonald hailed from the
Riverina, and was a horseman of exceptional
skill in his early Australian days, but migrat-
ing across the Tasman he settled down near
the Bay of Plenty to grow sheep and become
unhealthily stout. He drifted into politics
just after Seddon passed out, and, being a
large, silent person, soon came to be regarded
by the distracted Libs as a man of brilliant
promise. He represented one of the few elec-
torates in Maoriland drawn on the Austra-
lian pattern—a big triangular stretch of
country bounded by the East Cape, Rotorua
and Waikaremoana. * He used to go off elec-
tioneering with 4cwt. of tobacco in his coat
pockets, a pipe in his hat and leading a
pack-horse, and he would turn up looking
for a match the day after the numbers were
posted. He seldom smiled, and had sandy
whiskers.
A fine type of public officer was William
Davidson, who got the call suddenly while
having lunch with Ivermode, Neale and
Fricke at Hosie’s in Melbourne last week.
His name is chiefly associated with Mel;
bourne’s main water supply (Yan Yean and
Maroondah), which he took a star part in
planning. So familiar was he with the re-
ticulation of the metropolis that when a very
big fire occurred one of the first things Stein
did was to ask Davidson to come along and
lend a hand. From 1890 till he retired
eight years ago he was professional head of
the Vic. Public Works Department, having
Catani as coadjutor. No whiter man ever
trod the Public Office corridors. Coming to
the State a practically friendless Irish lad
of 15 he was the architect of his own for-
tunes. He was one of the very few life
members of the V.R.C. (At one time the Duke
of Portland was the only other, but later
there were at least two more.) He loved a
horse, and in his younger days rode to hounds.
He had a fair innings, as he was 76, and
richly deserved the pension of £666 he had
drawn for eight years.
E. G. Theodore, Premier *fc>f Queensland,
included in his original European programme
a visit to a paternal uncle, a bishop exer-
cising prelatical dignity in Roumania—the
old home of the pedigreed Theodore family.
Illness continues to reduce the strength of
the Federal Labor party. Tudor’s trouble
has made him very worn and tired, and he
is now .compelled to hand the leadership to
his understudy, Matthew Charlton. Charles
McDonald, a neurasthenic subject, occasion-
ally looks in, but he hasn’t a drop of the old
fighting spirit left. Frank Anstey reappeared
for a few minutes the other night, and gazed
mournfully on the stage where he used to
play a principal part. Jim Page’s eyes still
keep him an absentee, and now to add to
the party’s worries Matthews (Melbourne
Ports) talks of lying up-for a while.
Died in England last week, Arthur Pole-
Penton, one time “commandant of the forces”
in Maoriland. When Colonel Fox explained
that the fixed defences of the Ricketty isles
consisted of a collection of antiquated iron-
mongery Seddon reckoned the time was ripe
for Fox to get another job. and acquired
Colonel Pole-Penton, an artillery officer with
Indian experience. He was a pompous,
amiable little man, and spent about five'
years with Dick, most of the time being
filled in going out to dinner and trying to
keep a cigar alight. Mounted on a high horse,
armed with a sword and a helmet tinped
off with a flowing bunch of feathers, Pole-
Penton reviewing the troops at Ngawhena-
runga and Paliiamatuki was a gorgeous spec-
tacle for the girls. He was in the early
forties in those days. Since then lie had
been commandant at Malta and held an
inspector’s job in England. He lasted till
he was 67 and a general.
Beauty views the Beast:—
As the majority of Australian electors are now
women, it might be expected that they would favor
a certain amount of good looks in members of the
Federal Parliament. But either there are few candi-
dates of “prepossessing appearance” or they don’t
get picked. It would be hard to find a more
homely-looking 75 men in the Commonwealth than
the members of the House of Reps. Captain Bruce
JOHNNY
MULLEN,
Minister for
Justice,
Queensland.
is handsome in a dark but bored kind of way, and
on the other side Makin is distinctly pleasing to
the eye, though he wearies the ear. Considine and
Marks look striking, each in his own way, and the
Country party can boast one really good-looking
fellow in Dr. Earle Page, while Prowse is a fine, big,
well-built man, though no beauty. The most decora-
tive feature of the Ministerial bench is Massy Greene,
with his perennial youth, his brilliant head of hair
and his perpetual note of freshness and mild sur-
prise. The new Minister, Rodgers, raises the Minis-
terial average of looks, though he resembles Hercules
rather than Adonis. There are very few other
exhibits that would secure even a mention at a
beauty show.
Few men have greater cause to love their
enemies than W. A. Holman. They bom-
barded him out of the N. S. Wales Assembly,
and he at once started to make a large
income a_t the Bar: one of them libelled his
former colleague Ashford, and so enabled
him to secure, as counsel, the splendid advt.
of a verdict with almost record damages;
and now he has begun to collect on his own
account —he lifted £5OO last week with
hardly a struggle.
Justice Edmunds, who has been appointed
Royal Commissioner to inquire into the
working of the N. S. Wales Railways, is the
son of a West Maitland saddle and harness
maker. He is an M.A. and LL.B., and was
reckoned the best classical product of his
years.
J. B. Patterson was one of the very few
Victorian Premiers who have kept a cupboard
for their visitors; and he asked the members
of an unemployed deputation to have a taste
and a biscuit just as freely as he did the
Opposition leader or a Labqr-member critic.
If some distiller had sent J.B. a bottle of
whisky by air he would have taken care that
that bottle never
got empty. When
there was only a
teaspoonful left he
would have replen-
ished it, and kept
on doing it so that
he could whisper
to each set of
guests that this
was a drop of the
real Mackay speci-
ally sent over by
air. Hughes won’t
be nearly so enter-
prising with his
bottle—t he one
brought over by
Parer and Mcln-
tosh and delivered
at Flemington
course.
ORME MASSON,
for years
Professor of
Chemistry at Mel-
bourne University.
J. J. Hilder, the brilliant water-colorist,
who died on April 10, 1916, aged 34, left an
estate valued at the time at £6ll. But
Hilder’s limited output has increased in
value so greatly that the realised estate has
more than trebled—largely through Angus
and Robertson’s publication of Hilder copies ;
and pictures still unsold the executors have
been advised to hold as being likely presently
to be worth £5OOO. In view of the very
changed outlook the Court has authorised
the trustees of Hilder’s estate to pay the
widow and two children a couple of hundred
a year.
Graduating M. 8., Ch.M., at 21, the young-
est age at which it is possible to do it
in the faculty of medicine, Dr. Oswald J.
Ellis went from Sydney Uni. to the A.1.F.,
and from the A.I.F. to Edinburgh Uni.,
where he has passed the F.R.C.S. exam.,
and he is still only 25. The brilliant young
Australian began collecting distinctions at
12, being then at the Cleveland-street school,
and he has made it a habit ever since.
E. W. Greenwood, M.L.A., high priest of
Vic. Prohibitioners, who lately gave £5OOO
to the dry funds, wasn’t always so flush.
Before entering “The Lane” 18 years ago,
Greenwood, son of a parson at Campbell-
town (Tas.), was fruit-picking and odd-
jobbing through the country districts of Vic-
toria. Less than 19 years ago he worked
for £1 a week, and shortly afterwards paid
£lO for a business with a turnover of £ll5O
a year. Thence he made a quick passage to
independence.
Of Ellen Carmen, widow, who died at
Geelong Benevolent Asylum last week, it
seems probable that her claim to be 120
years old was less exaggerated than it
sounds. When Ellen went to the asylum in
1886 she was entered as being the same age
as the century, and although she was no
doubt stretching her antiquity a bit, she
could scarcely have been less than 70. She
was born in England, and is alleged to have
come to Geelong exactly a century ago, when
she was “probably 20.” The figures would
look more fantastic to-day had they not been
entered in the asylum records at a time when
widow Carmen merely claimed to be an octo-
genarian.
The Bulletin told some months ago of
the discovery Sam Barnes, Vic. Minister for
Railways, made when he visited the Northern
Mallee and found a family named Moloney—
dad, mum and nine healthy youngsters—on a
wheat area. The nine* were housed in a
barn divided into compartments by bags.
Moloney cut out any grumbling, but men-
tioned that carting water took up a lot of
time. Rain has come since, and he has now,
in a jewel of a letter, told his Ministerial
friend that he is “happier than Larry,” as
he has a few hundred acres under crop with
a 10-bag-an-acre and a lOs.-a-bushel pros-
pect. In a postscript he chortled that he was
using the time saved from water-carting in
cutting timber to be sawn up for a real
home. Barnes was nearly as pleased as if
a new reef had been found in the Long
Tunnel at Walhalla.
John Stapleton, born at Cook’s River
(N.S.W.) in 1820, was hale enough to re-
turn the grips of the Prospect residents who
came along to hope that it wouldn’t be his
last birthday. His father received a grant of
land in the district from Governor Mac-
quarie ; and in his younger days the old ’un
was a crack lightweight boxer.
E. G. Theodore, aged 35, Australian-born
of an English mother and a Roumanian
father, paused a day or two in Westralia on
his homeward way, and indulged in a
few reminiscences. Nearly 20 years ago
Theodore, then a big lad, carried his swag
and billy to Ivalgoorlie. On the occasion of
his return the swag was much larger, but
he had a private secretary or two to help him
carry it.
Twenty-five years in the Northern Terri-
tory, on top of a dozen years or so in the
far north of South Aus., have left “Cop”
Playford, chief mines warden in the Terri-
tory, still able to trek back to Darwin over-
land after a holiday. On the way he is tak-
ing in the Arltunga goldfield, the wolfram
fields to the north-east of the Macdonnell
Ranges, which send their ore in on camel-
back over 500 miles to Oodnadatta, and a few
other up-country mining enterprises. He is
doing the trip by horse and camel.
As expected, Vic. Parliament has now
again one mod. in its ranks, Dr. John Rich-
ards Harris having captured the seat in
the House of Plush held by the late Arthur
Sachse. If the Primrose Dames of Toorakia
decide to give preference to the knightly
James Barrett, the Assembly will also soon
have its sawbones.
Died lately, at Katoomba (N.S.W.), John
Sale, aged 76. He was related by marriage
to Henry Parkes, who enticed him hither in
1881 from Birmingham, where he was one
of the Liberal League founders and an
associate of Gladstone, Bright and other
notables. Joining the N.S.W. Railway
Service, he became Chief Inspector of Ac-
counts, and retired in 1909. He helped to
start Sydney “Hospital Saturday” bush-
ranging.
Weaver, M.L.A. for Korong (Vic.), is to
be opposed by Charlie Kelly, of Wallan. For
years Kelly was a Scotchbyterian “home
missionary” in the Korong district, after-
wards a Congregational pilot in Vic., the
Speck, South Aus. and Westralia, and be-
tween times a Vic. railway man and a
policeman at Alice Springs, right in the
centre of the continent. lie has seen more
of Outback than most Australians, but he
will need all his bushcraft to find the seat
for Korong, which is a Farmers’ Union
stronghold.
Stanley Powell McCallum, M.L. (special
war) Rhodes scholar for 1920, comes from
Canterbury College, and is 25. A brilliant
youngster at Ashburton High School (1907-
11), he entered Canterbury College in 1912,
and took his B.A. in 1915. The war
held up studies between 1915-17; but after
being badly smashed up and buried on the
SENATOR BAKHAP,
New Chairman of Committees in the Senate.
Somme he was invalided home. Entering
pn research work, he then gained his M.A.,
specialising in physics. He is a crack rifle-
shot, and was also in the M.L. University
Rugby team which toured Australia in 1913.
I PATCHED HIS PANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I patched his pants. The day was fine,
The fish would bite without a rest;
The ducks were flying “on the line” —
i patched his pants to save his best.
What time he fished and shot in mine
To save him from the flies and ants
(I had no best, nor prospects fine),
I sat in camp and patched his pants.
I wondered once, 1 wonder yet,
.-Is I’m afraid we always shall,
Why folk with brains so often set
A puppy on a pedestal.
He country-edited for quids—
From books of cranks on dusty shelves —
A rag they ran on Union funds
To suit their small suburban selves.
But I was green, and did not know
How well the ranter often rants ;
He spouted our ideas, and so
That holiday I patched his pants.
He plagiarised from ten to three,
And sometimes longer, for his sins;
His lordly staff was big enough
To run two Sydney Bulletins.
He wore his paper everywhere—
His name was Mudd, the paper’s Muck ;
I drew advances (to be fair)
And cursed our sweating rag, but stuck.
I’d copy-paper in my bag—
A worn-out grip they’d lent to me.
lie had pyjamas in the swag
He carried for democracy.
He put up at the Club Hotel —
Eight bob a day for “tone” alone.
I took him down to Cooper’s pub,
Where there was tucker, but no “tone.”
For Cooper’s one idea appear’d
To keep his rooms and kitchen clean
And turn out grub, and that was all—•
Except that Cooper wasn’t mean.
Some sleeper-cutters from the scrub
That runs to Mallacoota Bar
Got Mudd to speak at Cooper’s pub
And represent them —there you are!
I patched his pants. And he “made good”
In politics. They always do.
And turned us down. I knew he would
When I knew him—and so did you.
The Prince arrived. It seems a dream
That Mudd was bit by soldier-ants —■
By Christ! you couldn’t see for steam
The part that once wore out his pants!
Now Mudd is Minister for Skite
And Swank, and draws the screws of both;
He’s dining with the Prince to-night—
In brand-new pants, I’ll take my oath,
Not that I worry over it
Amongst my kitchen-garden plants.
But one day he turned round and bit
The hand that patched his blasted pants.
7 wondered once, I wonder yet,
As I’m afraid we always shall,
Why folk with brains so often set
A puppy on a pedestal.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


-
i '■■. "■</:;'■. * ; •/.. ' r&&zoxsß
■ '■> ".j *>>*x3Ss
~ z -
: 's+ite
m
wmm.
warn
w$MM§Sk
mm.
II
SBM
■
arc
■H
SHE
ijp|S
i ww/owi
■f.
mm
a**
s?s
SSI
««
ssvrf&sK*3f]
MS
|J|S
n
sVvn»'i:. •«.•••:-.•..•» •.'/•ji v / /
«
/■'/ ■
H
n«
s*.
M
mm
m
i
111
H
sbm&
n
:'gsf|S''
Hi
** .H ..
n
g*:
0 nrfyj
mi
ap
H
*
fg
I#
BSSW
«
II
sgfe.
HI
H
-^5
£M
m
am
hm
■Mr
P£ss
Wmm.
m
-' • - ■
Ki.-'MS
IMI
illf
REPPAfcO
£»
mim
H
v-.:
PLEASED WITH HIS APPEARANCE
f
HEN a man orders a suit he forms beforehand a mental picture of how he
will look in* his new clothes. When he puts on his Austral Sac Suit,
to measure, he finds, to his pleasure, that his wishes have been
thoroughly realised.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS
To Measure
115/-, £6/15/-, £7/15/-, £B/8/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/- to £l3/13/-
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns with
tape-measure and forms for self-measurement free on request.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY, SUBURBS AND COUNTRY.
486-490
GEORGE STREET
SOWING BR?? LTE
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
3 to 17
ROYAL ARCADE


DINNER-JACKET SUITS by PEAPES’
Lodge members find use all the year round for a Dinner-
Jacket Suit,, and as it is desirable that clothes of this kind
should be quite correct in cut and finish, and of a quality
that will give many years of service, this well-made Peapes
Suit should appeal as good value. It is made of English
Black Pinhead Barathea, with all-silk facing, latest-style
lapels. Vest with V-opening, four buttons. Trousers: Side
and hip pockets. A ready-to-wear suit of the finest quality.
Its price— £lo/10/ . —shows a considerable saving on the
cost of tailoring.
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
yu
□L
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
5
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining, wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
■ •
■ ■
When Yon Wake
take a glass of e bubbling SAL HEPATICA.
Millions of people throughout the world
keep well this way. Don’t confuse SAL
HEPATICA with so-called fruit salts.
Price 2/-, 4/-. All Chemists.
SAL HEPATICA
Society
PENEOLD’S
WINES
“Mere Worm”: We moved recently, and
I applied to haye the telephone shifted to
the new address. In reply the Department
sent two forms and a letter. The letter said
. that I could (1) fill up the first form and
get an estimate of the approximate cost of
the job, or (2) complete the other and “elect
to have the work proceeded with without
reference to the cost.” In the second event
I became entitled “to re-connection within
14 days or a refund for time taken in excess
thereof.” In the first “there would be con-
siderable delay”—an officer of the Depart-
ment put it at six months, or possibly nine
—“owing to the shortage of material due to
post-war conditions.” Was there ever a more
priceless example of one law for the careless
rich and another for the thrifty poor? Un-
less I am prepared to agree blindly to pay
whatever the Post Office authorities may ask
I go without a telephone for months; and
they add insult to injury by whining about
a war shortage in the same communication
which binds them in other circumstances to
the carrying out of the job within a fort-
night !
A SHATTERED DREAM.
“And did you ever find your idol had feet
of clay?”
“Yes, I danced a jazz with him last night.”
“Bfitt” : Most lectures at Melbourne Uni.
finish punctually on time; but one looked
like being a bit protracted. The students
began to scrape their feet on the floor and
otherwise remind the Prof, that he’d given a
fair issue. At last he looked up. “I’m
sorry,” he said ; “but you can’t go yet. I
still have another pearl to cast.” He fin-
ished in silence.
* *■ * *
“Callan Park” from his suburban seat: —
I see that Mr. Henley, of the N. S. Wales Assembly,
has once more advocated the inspection of convents
by both police and public. It is a reform I have
always favored. But Igo further than Drummoyne’s
soldier-statesman. Fof years before my retirement
I entertained grave suspicions about the people who
lived on either side of me. Some of the finest minds
in the suburb agreed that these persons and others
might be up to anything. There had been rumors
of quarrels, drunken debauches, unpaid water-rates,
insulted charwomen. Under the present system—and
mark that we owe it to Justinian, who, significantly
enough, was a Roman —my friends and I were
debarred from probing the truth of these stories.
Every dwelling should be open to inspection, day or
night.
Another place that should be thrown open to
the populace is the card-room of the Union Club.
Dreadful allegations are often made in respect of it.
It would soothe the public mind, while happily irri-
tating the members, if not less than two policemen
were permanently stationed at the doors, with in-
structions to keep the inspecting crowds moving in
an orderly single file while the club-men played.
Similarly with Masonic Lodge meetings, where, during
the progress of the Mysteries, I have been credibly
informed, goats are slaughtered in defiance of the
Health regulations and the S.P.C.A.
• Cabinet meetings, meetings of the inner council of
the P.L.L., Board meetings and similar gatherings
should be thrown open. A strong aroma of suspicion
hangs over all of them. We read in the social
columns of the press about the Smiffkinses’ exclusive
dances for members of the Government House
set. Also of Mr. and Mrs. Ikey Mo’s Sunday jazz-
parties for Christians. The tales that circulate con-
cerning the morals of the participants are horrifying.
Let them be inspected thoroughly by God-fearing
members of the public, assisted by the authorities.
The same with Government House, the Queen’s Club
(the more delicate work here to be undertaken by
female inspectors) and the Inner Chamber of the
British Empire League.
From the institution of such reforms it will be but
a step to legislation forbidding the use of keys, and
insisting that keyholes shall be not less than 2in.
in length by lin. wide. The changes may cause
some slight friction, but the price is a trivial one to
pay where the reward is the achievement of true
freedom.
* * * •
“Grego”: The Melbourne crook is experi-
menting with “knockout drops” and mem-
bers of the C.I.D. know of several citizens
who have taken a drink with an entertaining
stranger by whom they had just been en-
gaged as manager of his station, to awake
later with a large size in headaches, a con-
suming thirst and very little else. It is
believed that the drug used is chloral
hydrate, and if that is so it is hard to see
how any normal person could fail to detect
its taste in his beer. Some of the compounds
much used in medicine as hypnotics would
be swifter in their action, and being soluble
in alcohol would dissolve in whisky. More-
over, they would produce complete hypnosis,
which the chloral generally falls short of
doing. Of course “knockout drops” are not
new weapons: there was an epidemic of
their use in Sydney 15 years back. ' During
that period a well-known Sydney bookmaker
was robbed of £3OO after stepping into a
wine-saloon with a glad-eye. But he said
he deserved it, and let it go at that. Perhaps
the fact that he was a married man made
some difference.
* * * *
“D. Empson” : A Digger charged at Gee-
long (Vic.) with having been found in a pub
after closing hour put up the defence that he
was courting the licensee’s daughter. It must,
have struck the right chord in the beak’s
heart, for he looked benevolently at the
offender and dismissed the case. Equally
successful was the
plea of an old Bul-
letin contributor who
was once swept up in
a police raid on a
hazard - school
in Perth. A friendly
“demon” whispered
that the coast was
clear, but the inky
W.A. man decided to
stay and take ' his
chance in court, argu-
ing that the risk of
being fined was pre-
ferable to being sus-
pected, and probably
dealt with, by the
“mob.” When the
case came on he
pleaded that he
had visited the unlawful place on law-
ful business, being engaged in collecting
material for an article on “Perth by Night.”
The “mob” grinned, but the magistrate let
him go. Even the Law loveth a cheerful liar.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: How civilisation spreads!
Something akin to a B.M.A. is being
formed in Papua. Though always solid on
the question of fees, organisation has been
hitherto lacking among the sorcerers. Now
two of the leading practitioners in one dis-
trict haye taken each an articled pupil.
These budding magicians are in each case
brother-in-law to their principals, and the
premium paid was £1 Bs. in cash earned at
the Port Moresby plantations. The sisters
who wedded the parties of the first part
probably represent some of the premium, and
possibly a few pigs were chucked in as stamp-
duty on the articles.
* * * *
“Wharfie”: Most of the trouble among
the waterside workers in Sydney, out of
which the recent demand for the abolition
of night work and overtime has sprung, can
be traced back to the action of the employers
12 or more years ago. The wharf-laborers,
a solid organisation, had secured an in-
crease of rates, and wanted preference to
unionists; but the employers fought bitterly
against preference being given to a “close
union.” At that time, in order that there
should be no surplus of labor and that any
rise secured in pay should be real, the whar-
fies refused to admit new men to member-
ship at times. The employers eventually
succeeded: the wharfies’ union got prefer-
ence on the condition that it allowed any
bona fide applicant for membership to join,
In this way the employers fancied that they
would weaken the solidarity of the organisa-
tion; but although the increased rates and
the free-and-easy conditions of wharf-labor-
THE SUDDEN BLONDE.
FIRST FLAPPER: “ That's Mrs. Blink Blank. She’s married a heap of gold.”
SECOND DITTO: “Fes, and I see it’s gone to her head.”
ing induced a rush into the union, the new
hands became men and brothers, the only dif-
ference being that they and the old hands
found that, as much about the same quan-
tity of work had to be divided amongst more
men, the new rates didn’t give the indi-
vidual much benefit. On the contrary, there
was more “off” time, and men found that
they required more money for hours of idle-
ness than for hours of work. So they
struck again for higher rates and got them ;
then the higher rates induced more men to
come along, and the more men still further
watered down the benefit of the new condi-
tions, and once more the men struck for
increases. This variety of the vicious circle
has been an exhibition on the wharves for
years, the net result being that individual
wharf-laborers have a vast amount of idle
time, and as their industry keeps them hang-
ing around —it is mostly hanging around—
a lot of money is wasted, and the man
power of a big battalion w r ho might profit-
ably be employed elsewhere is practically
lost to the State, while, individually, the
wharfies are no better off, in spite of vastly-
improved rates, than they were years ago.
* * * *
“Doc”: Joe, another “unofficial soldier,”
joined the Ist Brigade On the Somme in the
winter of 1916. After Bullecourt we were
in billets at Buire, and 10 per cent, of all
units were given 24 hours’ leave to Amiens.
Of Joe’s quota he was the only A.W.L.;
but the M.P.’s got him and only just in time.
A lady friend had provided him with French
civilian trousers, and was away getting a
coat when he was nabbed. Half an hour
later they were to have caught the train to
Paris and Nice. When he came back to
clink the circumstances gave the legal heads
some tall thinking. He had never been
attested, had received neither unit, rank,
number nor paybook, and had therefore
drawn no pay! Was he, then, a soldier?
If not, could he be A.W.L. ? But what a
glutton to spend any part of the winter on
the Somme without pay!
* * * *
Judge Wasley (Vic.) dealt a stiff sentence
to Frank Bennett, who, under the name of
Charles Shioobert, took down three women at
South Melbourne for £2OO by persuading
them that he was a registered bookmaker
and had a “can't-possibly-lose” system of
betting. Giving him six years to begin with,
Wasley ordered that at the end of that
period, when he will be 39. he should go into
a reformatory prison till the Attorney-
General thought fit to advise the Governor
to release him—which, when you come to
think of it. is a dreadful reflection on the
ordinary prison as a reformatory. Guessing
that Bennett had some of the money laid by
for emergencies, S’Honor said that if he
made an effort to repay the money to his
victims a recommendation would be made
for the reduction of the sentence. If effect
were given to the Bowser Act, whose object
is to make prisoners work at useful occupa-
tions for the maintenance of themselves and
dependants, Bennett could be forced to re-
fund every penny of his ill-gotten gains. But
the Act calls for some administrative capa-
city and is just stacked on the shelf.
“Yarrum”: The Christians in a populous
suburb are fighting like devils for the love of
God. The fun started over a singing Ger-
man who belonged to the choir and had a
class in the Sunday-school. The specific
charge against him was that he wouldn’t lift
his hat when Gorsave was being sung. The
inembers of the choir objected to sing with
him, and the parson asked him to get out.
But Berlin insisted upon staying, and the
parson pushed him out. Then seven-tenths
of the congregation, friends of the pushed,
rose and denounced the reverend pusher.
A couple who cried vehemently and often
“Out with Jerger!” started a service in
opposition. Then his Reverence called a
meeting, by ticket, and a ticketless member
of the opposition attended at the church.
Asked to leave, he put himself into a “fight-
ing attitude,” and swung one for Germany
HOW HE MIGHT FIND OUT.
“I can’t see why you won’t give me just one
little kiss.”
“Well, there is a mirror right behind you.”
at the parson. The pilot cleverly dodged the
blow, and, instead of countering heavily,
quietly led the rest of the meeting out to the
presbytery, and the leader of the opposition
had the kirk to himself.
(Continued on page 18.)
SEPTEMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the wattle witches ride
Yellow-bodiced side by side,
Bobbing cap and fragrant feather
Through the blue September weather,
Hear the merry fairy-men
AH along the golden glen,
Clap their little hands and sing
“Ninny! Nonny! It is Spring!”
Cups of sun the elfkins spill,
Moving up and down the hill,
While the laughing leaflets t<tp
Cool, grey branch and dreaming sap,
Up and down, and up again
Underneath the blossomy rain,
Welcoming old Winter’s bride
Where the wattle witches ride.
x.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.


%
mmmmm
■mm*®***
ax
s
m
liiSiliiWie
KvS
1
m
hfffl
1
m
M
1:
I
m
m
+:•:*
S 5
mm
w
m
V.V
1
• •
A
71 IP
BEFORE the GRADUOLA, the in-
genious patented tone controlling de-
vice in the AEOLIAN VOGALION
was invented, it was hitherto unknown
how to mechanically imitate the voice
perfectly.
The GRADUOLA achieves the seem-
ingly impossible. Like a singer’s throat,
it perfectly controls tone
i«55; —
Similar to the vocal chords the GRADUOLA
is elastic in nature and of great flexibility* Like
the throat it expands and contracts and can di-
minish or increase a tone slowly or rapidly and
by imperceptible degrees. The
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is the only phonograph that can accomplish this.
Even if the VOCALION did not possess
other outstanding features, this one overwhelming
attribute alone, namely, the GRADUOLA, would
be sufficient to make your choice a VOCALION.
tfheVmndln
(omp&nyWl
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
Please send me the AEOLIAN VOCALION
Catalog.
Name.
Address.
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.


qua'-'**
m
It Pays to Qualify
Otherwise —why did 4000 candidates pre-
sent themselves for Accountancy Examina-
tions last year? These men know what the
qualification will do for them. You cannot
afford to stand aside.
80-PAGE FREE BOOK.
Write or call at nearest address. Enquiry
costs nothing. Read the book and see
exactly what “qualification” means to you.
Hemingway 8 Robertson,
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings,
Custom Street.
“FIRST IN 1897—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
12
STAS
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management «-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” : When things got nasty in the
line a man’s own nerves were about all he
could stand ; to be afflicted by the windiness
of others was torture. We were crouching
in our possie while Fritz distributed iron-
mongery about the neighborhood, and a new
reinforcement bored us with nervy questions.
Finally there was a “grounch” which spoke
of a big upheaval within yards of us; the
whole place shook, showers of dust dropped
upon us, and slabs of our trench fell in-
wards. “Was that a sh«l?” chattered our
friend the reinforcement. “No, you blighter!
No !” said the sergeant, fiercely. “That was
merely a blanky leaf falling.”'
A bird-man to The Bulletin :
On August 19 four aeroplane accidents occurred in
N. S. Wales—at Inverell, Crookwell, Bowraville and
Oootamundra respectively. Three of the machines that
crashed were employed on the Peace Loan Campaign;
the other was carrying the Prince’s mail. On Aug.
21 the fourth and last of the Peace Loan ’planes
operating in N. S. Wales was put out of action at
Wellington. All of the machines are the property of
the Defence Department. Two of them are now
“total write-offs,’’ i.e., crashed beyond repair; the
others, according to press reports, are badly damaged.
A modest estimate of the damage would be £5OOO.
The pilots in each case (luckily they all escaped)
have excellent service records and their efficiency is
beyond question; in fact, one of them is C.O. of the
permanent Australian Air Force. What, then, is the
reason why five perfectly good pilots should pile up
five perfectly good aeroplanes in two days? Two of
them ran into obstructions in taking off from fields
that were too small to give them clearance, two
others hit obstructions on the ground after having
landed successfully, and the fifth taxied into a gully in
the middle of an alleged landing-ground. Summed up,
all the crashes could have been avoided had suitable
landing-grounds been available.
It may possibly dawn on the Defence Department
that it could have provided itself with a permanent
THE GENTLE CRITIC.
“Hubby saw this hat on a mannequin and
bought it for me."
“He must be fond of her.”
aerodrome at each of these places for an amount
equal to the damage it has sustained. In fact, the
average country municipality, with a little official en-
couragement, would be glad to establish an aerodrome
at its own expense if only for the local benefits it
would derive. A real live Government would have
extended the necessary encouragement long ago, but
as far as aviation is concerned, our Federal Govern-
ment is off the map.
If the Peace Loan Campaign had chanced to be a
War Campaign, the same preposterous state of affairs
would still have existed. In that case our Air Force
would probably have been out of action in a week.
“Ben Trovato” mentioned (B.
l/7/’2O) that £152 per acre had been paid for
land at Bacchus Marsh (Vie.). Since then
£l7O an acre has been given for 17 acres, and
£2OO has been offered for some choice bits of
black soil. “Ben” is incorrect, though, in
stating that the Money Millers secured their
first foothold in the Marsh in 1850 at £2 an
acre. There was never any £2 land in the
Valley. My father paid £lO an acre to the
Crown as far back as 1849. The Millers’
first purchase, the Broadlands Estate, of
about 1500 acres, some of it hill country, was
not made until the early ’eighties, and £22,000
was paid to the original owners, the Henry
James family. That £l4-odd an acre was
even then locally considered a ridiculously
low figure. The Millers afterwards gathered
in adjoining rich-soiled farms, making up
their present magnificent estate. The presence
THE CRITIC.
“George, darling, do you think my color shows too much?"
“No, dear, hut I think your frock does."
of this big holding of high-class agricultural
land in the limited area of the Bacchus Marsh
Valley is a serious obstacle to the progress
of the district; cutting it up into small
blocks would mean the prosperous settlement
of over 100 families. An employee of the
Miller family some 20 years ago leased about
20 acres, paying the big annual rental of
£4 an acre, and in a few years had made a
little fortune from dairying. Local experts,
in a recent agitation for acquiring some of
the Broadlands Estate for soldier settlement,
stated that a 10-acre block would be suffi-
cient for each man, which gives an idea of
the soil’s fertility. I have often seen
lucerne roots in the flood-washed banks of
the Weribee 20 feet below the surface, and
as thick as an ordinary man’s leg.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I am the only man who
really knows how to end the sectarian
trouble. Let every sect be compulsorily
registered as a union and compelled to file
its rules (i.e., its doctrines), a list of its
employees (i.e., its ministers) and their
salaries and a statement of the number of its
members. Most of the members have only
the dimmest idea what the rules are. and
it would remedy a lot of untidiness and haze
if somebody was compelled to define the
situation. Then the Court could do • some-
thing about providing the employees with a
living wage, especially as some of them now
receive -no wage at all. And when two or
more unions proved to have the same rules,
and so were overlapping, the Court could
order that they should be amalgamated. In
the end Judge Ewing might convince them
that they are much alike, and he might
evolve a national religion to which every-
body bar the members of the Atheists’ Asso-
ciation would belong without the least diffi-
culty and end the fuss. It is all misunder-
standing which would be cleared up when the
parties met in court, unless Mr. Garden
made some silly trouble, as he usually does.
—Yours, etc., J. E.
Touching a forgotten scrap of history:—
Australia acquired some Spanish settlers long be-
fore J. P. Carolin brought his little lot to Bendigo
(B. 19/8/’2O). When the Spanish vessels Desen-
vierta and Atrevida visited Sydney in 1793, in the
course of that great voyage of discovery in the
Pacific which no writer of Australian history seems
to think worthy of mention, five of the seamen
stayed behind without leave. It was the fear that
more would be missing that made the Spanish com-
mander, Alexandro de Malaspina, hurry on his depar-
ture. Though John Macarthur had hardly yet begun
to lay the foundations of Australia’s pastoral indus-
try, the Spaniards were shrewd enough to see what
very few Englishmen realised at the time, that Aus-
tralia was potentially a great stock-raising country.
“Though the flocks and herds, whether of sheep,
horses or cattle, were excessively few in numbers,”
says the history of the voyage, “great results would
soon be obtained by the union of the activity and
policy of the English with a soil and climate like
that of our own Andalusia.” It is surely a reflection
on Australia that neither the official account of
Malaspina’s voyage nor the more modest story of
Francisco Xavier de Viana, has ever been translated
into English. There’s a copy of Viana’s book in
the Commonwealth library, and an enthusiastic ama-
teur historian in Melbourne worked out a rough
English version of it a while ago, but for private
use only. It is strange, by the way, how very few
people' in Australia know any Spanish, though it is
spoken over a larger area of the earth’s surface than
any language except English and Russian, and is the
tongue of our nearest neighbors across the Pacific.
“Student” approaches it reverently:—
Under the title “The Sentient Shallot,” “Eddyson”
(B. 19/S/’20*), with his usual ready wit and facility
of expression, ridicules the idea of a “campaign to
secure kindness to plants” initiated by Sir Jagadis
Bose, of Calcutta. And truly one cannot help smiling
with him at the thought of “making pets of little
onions.” But this attitude will be modified or even
reversed by a more thoughtful consideration of the
subject. Bose, who is a man of international repute
and high attainments, has specialised in what may be
termed the psychology of plants. He has, in fact,
been a pioneer in that particular field, and his achieve-
ments mark a very distinct advance in twentieth-
century science. As a result of his experiments he
has proved the facts enumerated in the paragraph
quoted by “Eddyson,” viz., that plants have a nerv-
ous system, are affected by drugs and are sensitive
to environment. Nor have his investigations been
confined to the smaller members of the plant world —
the “sensitive tomato” and the “tender beet.” Forest
trees have also been his patients, and one of his most
interesting achievements was the removal of a large
tree, under the influence of an anaesthetic, from its
original position to another some distance away, the
tree after transplanting exhibiting no signs of having
felt the operation in any way. This feat is at pre-
sent nothing more than a scientific curiosity, like the
artificial manufacture of the diamond ; but who can
say what shall be the limits of. its successful applica-
tion by practical men in the future? What Professor
Bose has demonstrated with scientific precision most
of us feel to be true. AVho can view, for instance, a
fine old tree which has been splintered by lightning
without feeling that he is gazing on a spectacle
similar to that of a maimed animal ? And even our
children show a similar instinct in their contempt for
another who in picking flowers tears the bush care-
lessly, or having picked the flowers merely throws
them away to wither in the sun.
* * * *
“Mrs. Lance Rawson” : Add to “T.0.1.’5”
story (B. 26/8/!20) of the about-to-be
destroyed Oxford Hotel that in 1851 it was
the one and only fashionable
boarding-house in Sydney, kept by
a Mrs. McDermot. How do I
know? Well, because I was born
there that year. Mrs. McDermot
later moved to the terrace in the
Domain, and it was there the
Duke of Edinburgh used to visit
the Carandinis. Madam and her
two daughters (afterwards Lady
Moreland and Mrs. Palmer respectively)
were very charming people, whose music
was as great an attraction to the Duke as
the more hectic pleasures that awaited him
elsewhere.
“Blanc”: I was surprised in Belgium in
December, 1918, at six-year-old children not
knowing what chocolate or toilet-soap was.
Yesterday I was more surprised to find 10-
year-old N. S. Wales children playing with
half-sovereigns believing them to be “some
kinder War Chest medals.” They had
unearthed them while playing about "an old
house near Gresford. “I shied a couple of
’em away,” a boy of 12 told me.
* * * *
“Bardi” pays a visit to Vaucluse:—
The promise of Spring was in the lordly garden
in which William Charles Wentworth dreamed his
dreams. Doves coded in the magnolias, a cherry-
tree had burst into pink blossom, the wistaria was
waking from its sleep. We sat on the verandah of the
picturesque old-colonial house and waited until the
gardener (who is also the cicerone) was ready to
show us round. Presently the door opened and
disgorged a party of giggling school-flappers, and
was sedulously locked again when we and the other
trippers, to the number of about 20, had insinuated
ourselves within, although there is nothing to steal.
Perhaps the trustees are afraid that an irreverent
public will carry away the interior of the building,
piece by piece, unless it is well watched. There
are already gaps in the ceiling where the plaster has
retired from business, the walls are cracked omin-
ously, and the staircase is in desperate disrepair.
The Constitution-room is certainly jn a decent state
of preservation, but the others are mostly melan-
choly ruins wailing for the succoring hand of the
restorer, a necessary and misjudged man.
But if dust accumulated and walls decayed our
cicerone did his best. lie proved himself a capable
gardener and an entertaining guide. With pride
he showed us the Long room, where the family en-
tertained distinguished guests—“No,” he said, “I’m
wrong; they didn’t make any distinctions in
those days.” It was floored with tiles from the
roons of Pompey-eye, “supposed to have cost two
hundred and fifty pounds,” but his manner plainly
indicated that he had his doubts about it. There
were windows shuttered to keep out convicts—or
it might have been snakes. There was a door which
had been pulled down in the hope of finding 'idden
treasure, but there proved to be nothing behind
it except a hole in the wall. The flower-painting
in the Constitution-room was supposed to be worth
a hundred guineas. A lady in a fur-coat mur-
mured that it was a lot of money. Busk of Miss
Wentworth on the right; busk of Mr. Wentworth
on the left. It was supposed to be a perflck like-
ness, even to the cask in his left eye. The mantel-
piece was made of French marble. When you
lit a. fire in the grate the light shone through. The
lecturer struck a safety-match to illustrate the effect,
but the demonstration was not impressive. Some
mere blokes, he explained, had been blurring the
marble with wax matches.
We emerged from the venerable edifice and went
in quest of Wentworth’s mausoleum. But the rest-
ing-place of the proud old constitutionalist is be-
coming hard to find, for Vaucluse, once beautiful
and romantic, has been given over to the abomina-
tions of modern architecture. The severe lines and
subdued tones of the mausoleum are out of place
in a bustling residential suburb ; it seems to shrink
from publicity. We found it at last hedged about
by ugly Yankee bungalows and by unspeakably
hideous “villas,” whose red-tiled roofs shrieked at
the unoffending landscape.
* * * #
“Mirza”: Before the war Dr. J. W. Spring-
tliorpe was lecturer in Public Health and
Therapeutics at Melbourne Uni. He was
calling the roll one day when he noticed
that, although there
was a sparse
attendance, not one
student had, so far.
failed to answer
his name. (These
things do happen
sometimes.) He
smiled and went
on : “Mr. Smith !”
“Sir!” “Were you
here last day, Mr.
Smith?” “No, Sir.”
“N o,” said
Springy,” screwing
in the monocle,
“and, Mr. Smith, I
don’t think you’re
here to-day, either!”
“INTRODUCE ME!”
THE FLAPPER (after a proposal): “Well,
really, Adrian, I don't know my own
mind yet.”
ADRIAN : “No —I suppose you want an intro-
duction.”
POPGUNS FOR THE BOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
According to the Minister for the Navy, the
salute by the Australian Fleet to the flag of the Naval
Board will be fired as often as is necessary. It is
regarded as useful in teaching gunnery. The cost
of the 15-gun salute is not excessive, amounting only
to 15s. This information was given in the House of
Representatives in reply to a question by Mr West.”
“Bang !” said the Gun. The echoes rolled
And round the hills the tale was told.
“Honor the flag for what it’s done !
That’s a shilling. Bang !” said the Gun.
“Bang!” said the Gun. Its red tongue flashed.
“Somewhere to-day a cheque’s been cashed.
A loan’s been floated. I’ll have my fun !
Good for gunners ! Bang !” said the Gun.
“Bang 1” said the Gun. “Re this carouse,
They’ll ask a question in the House,
And West will urge we can’t afford
To powder up the Naval Board.”
“Bang!” said the Gun. “One for his nob 1
Each bark of mine is worth a bob.
Honor the Board ! The rest may hang!
Kids like rattles. Old boys like — Bang!”
N.S.W.
NELSON H. BARNACLE.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Bom 1820. Still going strong .
X
N
1 zJm
WM
*ms/\
ft
**L'
0
/A
Vt
\
4 (
s
4BVy
r*?!t
1
r
%
1
7
N
>
gs
jsn
79
ii
77
a
7
%
w
V?
m
Y
€
a
s§
/
4.
sss
m
\
%
■r
K
«
if
n\v
V
X.
r
&
<3&»t
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. No. 3 —EGYPT.
ist Tourist : “ There is no doubt the Egyptian period was a wonderful age.”
2nd Tourist: “Every period has its wonders. Haven’t we got ‘Johnnie
Walker.’ ”
same
oil over
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWO%
Jf EXTRA HIGH GRADrJ
READYRUBBED
3]
Why Suffer
from Eczema?
Here’s a Positive Cure
That has achieved success after all
other remedies and treatments have
failed. Here, indeed, is a boon to all
those who suffer from Eczema and
skin troubles in the wonderful—
LIGMOLLIENE
Its Marvellous Healing Power has
been endorsed not only by people in
all parts of the Empire, but by
eminent doctors. Be sure and give
“LIGMOLLIENE” a trial.
Prices: 5/6, 7/6 tin, or trial sample
tin at 1/6 from the proprietors,
W. H. MALYON & SON, Chemists,
Sturt Street, Ballarat, Yic. [2
A Signal Success
<3i
#
whimt
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“MteNorth”; One of the best spear-
throwers in the Cape York Peninsula was Wuruma,
who lived in a camp on the mainland opposite Night
Island. When I first knew him he was a young man
untouched by “civilisation,” clean-limbed, light
footed and clear-eyed. He was the most graceful
thing I have ever seen. As a spearsman his accu-
racy over 70 or 80 yards was astonishing. No matter
how small the object, if he could see it he would hit
it. He made his pwn spears; and finely balanced
things they were, 12ft. or more long, tapering back
from the point for a certain distance and then
gradually swelling to the butt end. To see him
throw was something to remember. With the spear
held in the throwing-stick, he balanced on his toes,
his left foot well behind him, his naked body erect,
yet supple. For a moment he would poise thus, an
eager, virile thing, the spear quivering along its full
length; then the muscles of his right arm would
tauten suddenly, he would swing half-round on his
toes and the spear would describe a graceful para-
bola to the target. But that was years ago. Wuruma
has not thrown a spear for a long time now. When
last I saw him he was a filthy object on the beach.
“Civilisation” had got to work on him, and the dul-
nesa of despair was in his eyes. There were syphili-
tic ulcers about his cheeks and on his elbows and
shins, and his arms and legs were so thin that it
seemed as if the bones pressed hard against the
skin. Such are the “blessings” we have brought the
“poor savages” !
• * * *
“Vista”: A pommy out our way had a
nasty shock a few weeks ago. He was footing it
to a station beyond Cunnamulla, and camped under
a gidya-tree. After lighting a fire and boiling his
new billy he spread Matilda and turned in. Shortly
before dawn he awoke with a start to find the tree
against which he was camped in flames. His fire had
been built on the surface roots, which had smoul-
dered away under-ground and reached the tree, the
bole of which was a glowing mass when he made his
hurried escape. The same thing happened to me
many years ago when I was in that part of the
country for the first time. My bluey was badly
charred, too.
* * * *
“Gecko” : Next to our champion lyre-bird
the starling takes the stakes for mimicry. I have heard
this chatty chortler imitating accurately the calls of
a wagtail, kingfisher, silver-eye, mud-lark and the
whistling eagle. Is it sarcastic mud-slinging at the
bright endeavour of our “songless” birds, or has
the pest become disgusted with its own Fogiand
wheeze, and is now endeavoring to make good as a
copyist? My theory is that these miniature crows
have adopted the kingfisher call simply to induce
Mrs. Fisher to disclose her nesting nook (usually
in the dead spout of a tree), so that they themselves
may utilise the possie to hatch out and rear their
own starlingettes in. Probably the eagle call is
intended to scare away other birds from their
fancy fodder. The one and only favorable report
I’ve heard in the starlings’ favor is that they are
hog.i on bot-flies, and to secure these buzzing bounders
the artful imps will no doubt yet mimic the neigh
of a brown brumby,
* * * *
“F.li.R.”“Splintef’s” method of getting
rid of bees reminds me that a troublesome colony
of ants can be eradicated by drawing a line of
cyanide around their nest. One sniff seems to be
sudden death. I have put an empty kerosene-tin in
the middle of a nest to get rid of the thieves.
The ants crawl up into the tin on the earth packed
round it for the purpose and drop into the trap to
taste the decoy placed in the bottom. The slippery
sides of the tin cannot be climbed until it is
nearly full of their dead bodies. This may be cruel;
still, when a colony of ants finds your safe something
has got to be done, and a man can’t shoot the
beggars.
“Baba” : By those who go down to the sea
in windjammers a hint on how to make the wind
blow may be appreciated. This is how
Black Brother of Papua does it. He splits
the husk of a dry cocoanut sufficient to remove
the nut whole. Then placing some hot
embers in the cavity, he closes the husk and
binds it tightly with vine. As smoke issues
from the husk, he holds it aloft and sing 3
“Blow ye breezes, blow,” or its equivalent in
his language. Sometimes I have known the
wind to be obedient, for which of course
black Aeolus claimed credit; when it
didn’t, he blamed the cocoanut.
* * * *
“Hayseed”: Anyone seen a ram fight a
bull? The ram I’m thinking of was rearecT, as a
poddy, with a pet calf. As soon as his horns de-
veloped he became a nuisance about the house, and
was a special menace to the old Wood-and-water joey,
aged, so he said, 103. When turned out Billy
made straight for the cattle, and would fight any-
thing that approached him. He had all the cattle
bluffed. During the drought, when the stock were
hand fed, he would pick out the best sheaf of hay
for himself, and no one dared to dispute his owner-
ship. One day I saw Jiim tackle a bull. They
had both gone down to a tank to drink, and Billy
came off best. He would stand back about 20 yards
and let the bull have it between the horns. Cer-
tainly he had one advantage—the bull was hobbled.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: My fishing mate and I were
angling for snapper off Poole’s Point (N.S;W. S.
Coast) when a 16-foot shark got the scent of our
burley and started. nosing about the crevices under
the surges at our feet. The scavenger’s presence effec-
tually barred the incoming of the fish we wanted,
so Alf determined upon shifting him with a plug
of dynamite. But he did not wait for the surprise
packet. Probably a whiff of the smoking fuse
alarmed him and he streaked for the other side of
the Pacific. Just then an immense school of salmon
swept by in packed masses, with their tail fins
showing above the surface, arifl simultaneously the
explosion jarred the rocks down under. Thousands
of the poor fellows immediately turned upon their
backs and floundered over acres of the sea. Some
shot yards across the dry beach-sand, and many
floated helplessly. We watched them regretfully,
and were gratified to see that after a time the majo-
rity recovered and hastened away after the school.
What, then, is the effect that submarine explosions
have on fish?
Scottie Thrake”: Despite liis intimate
knowledge of Binghi’s weapons and their uses
FY7 (B. 5/8/’2O) seems to have overlooked the
fact that the shield, although it may have been made
of bottle-tree on the Barcoo, was never made to stop
a spear or any other weapon, but to deflect it. I
have often watched the Burdekin and Belyando nig-
AND SOME FELL BY THE WAYSIDE.
THE INJURED PARTY: "Well, what the blazes are you staring at? Haven't you ever
seen a motor-bike before?"
gers practising on the sand-beds. Usually the young
buck with the shield would have three spear-men to
watch. The spears (blunt-headed) were shot from
a womera at about 30yds., and travelled like a
streak of light and deadly true. The spears, after
barely touching the shield, would sail into the air
over, his head or to right or left, or into the sand
between his feet, apparently as he willed. These
shields were made from- “cork-tree.” This stuff is
soft, spongy and easily worked when green, but very
tough and light as a feather when dry. On account
of its unpleasant odor when green it is known among
bushman by a name that doesn’t sound like “laven-
der.”
* * * #
“Johnson”: Considering the vast amount
of lantana-infested country in Australia, it seems
remarkable that the lantana-fly has not been intro-
duced. This insect has been found of great assist-
ance in eradicating the pest in Hawaii and New
Caledonia. What is the objection to giving it a
trial here?
* * * *
“Pick”: Any snake out bird-nesting of
intent upon lying in wait among the blossomed or
fruited branches where parrakeets
cluster, can wriggle up a rough-barked
leaning tree; but traversing the
smooth trunk of a slender sapling or
a far-stretched limb is a difficulty
that can only be negotiated by reptiles
specially built for the job. Tree-
snakes are rarely seen aground, and
their color always tallies with that of
the leaves and twigs amongst which
they live. The even abdominal euive
usual in ground snakes is absent in the
tree species, whose transverse belly
plates form lateral ridges with notched
projections along the full length of
each side. This structure enables the
squirmer to cling closely, and the
notched ends of the belly-plates are
applied as footholds in progression.
Also, possessing a tail prehensile to its
farthest inch, the snake can attach its
extremity to one branch and wave the
remainder of its six or seven feet of
body forward* to another branch, or re-
main rigidly extended, while it takes
a survey of the situation around its haunt. Some-
times a bird alights upon, or near by, the animated
branch and gets the start of his life when the coils
fly back in his direction.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: Will dingoes attack a man?
Rather, if there are enough of them together and
they are hungry, as they usually arei Jack Spicer,
who set out with a load of fish from Nelligen to
Braidwood, hadn’t one when he arrived early in
the morning. Every fish had been thrown to a
pack of dingoes that came at him through the cold
mist of the Clyde mountains. If he hadn’t thus
bought them off Jack is satisfied that he and his
moke would never have got through alive.
“L. and T.”: Rover was a first-class cattle-
dog and game as a pebble, but he couldn’t fight
for nuts. No dog in our district (Auburn, S.A.)
was considered a dog until he had walloped Rover.
Foxes became plentiful, and one day I found Rover
down and out after a tussle with Reynard. I carried
him home and nursed him back to health, and there
burst upon our township an oddly changed and grimly
resolute Rover. He had developed a toe-hold that
made him the terror of his kind. He had been
such a soft snap in the past that there was always
a scrap waiting for him when he walked abroad;
but the new Rover invariably aimed at a fore-paw
grip—the first joint above the toes, the most sensi-
tive part of a dog—and when Rover got that hold
the other, no matter how big or ferocious, was the
loser. Whether Rover learned the dodge from
the fox or thought it out during his enforced rest
I don’t know, but he had all the tykes in the town-
ship limping on three legs until they acknowledged
him the Dempsey of the canine world.
* * * *
Dr. W. A. Hargreaves, Director of De-
partment of Chemistry, South Aus., helps to settle
the strychnine dust-up :
"When animals are poisoned with strychnine, the
poison is absorbed by all parts of the body. It
is quickly absorbed by the spinal cord, which appears
to have the power. of collecting the strychnine from
circulation and storing it up in its structure. When
the body of the dead animal is decomposed and
dried, the bones, especially the backbone, contain
THE REALIST.
SQUATTER (who has commissioned artist to
paint a picture of his homestead ):
“ Why, dammit, man, you've only given
me four sheep, and I run a sheep to the
acre!"
some of the poison. The question whether the bones
contain poison in sufficient quantity to poison other
animals that may chew them depends entirely upon
the quantity of poison consumed by the original
victim. It appears to me improbable that a poison-
ous dose of strychnine would be obtained by this
means.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE RIVER CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All along the rivers the waters spin and swirl—
\ ellow, broad flood-waters, golden in the sun —
With here a green young sapling like a dancing girl,
There a stately, grave tree dreamjng like, a nun;
All across the heavens cockatoos are flying,
A paper chase for angels through skies of deepest
blue;
The little winds go sighing,
Whispering and crying,
Because I’ve not come back again, come back again
to you!
Great swans make silver pathways on the water’s
gold,
Pairs of mating wood-duck flee down the endless
aisles;
Little huts forgotten as stories that are told
Drown amid the waters which stretch away for
miles;
Kangaroos come down the steep red banks and,
drinking,
Cock their ears alertly, and like ghosts are gone
again;
The leaves are gayly winking;
While I grow weary thinking,
The Murray’s painting pictures on the canvas of my
brain.
Bunyips in the velvet dusk, laden steamers go,
Thrashing to the Wakool, pounding to Swan Hill;
From their stubby funnels, fiery jewels flow,
Through their shaky timbers wild the engines
thrill;
’Neatli brown hands the wheel’s spokes steadily
are swinging;
Sentinel along the banks the trees loom dark and
tall.
I can hear the river singing,
Taste your wet mouth clinging,
While from far across the waters the wistful night-
birds call.
KEEPING AN EYE ON HIM.
THE DOUR 'UN: “Hey, I hear yair mither-
in-law is yoin' to cook fer ye while ye’re
wife’s away.”
THE GAY 'UN: “Yes, she’s coinin’ to put me
pot on.”
Soft stars hang in the high skies arching o’er the
plains,
Stretching to horizons vague and dim and lost;
The chaste moon leaves the tree-tops, lives and loves
and wanes;
Steely the air grows with the touch of frost.
Is it moon or starlight? Are the pale mists
wreathing?
Do you still lie sleepless when the magic world is
dumb,
And hear its mighty breathing
Through the water’s seething?
You call me to the rivers; I am happy—l shall
come.
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


THREE NEW
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
Is. 3d. each. Is. 4ld. Posted.
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL,’’
by Jack North.
A Great Sporting Story.
“THE SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR,”
by Jack McLaren.
A Splendid Story of North Queensland.
“HACK’S BRAT,” by A. lan Macleod.
An Unusual Australian Bush Story with a Wide Appeal.
THESE ARE ONLY THREE OF
Over 100 Australian Novels
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
The Commonwealth’s Foremost Fiction Series.
Including Novels by all the best of Australian Authors.
1/3 each—All One Price—l/4* posted.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS IN THE COMMONWEALTH,
or direct from the Publishers,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George St,,
SYDNEY.
“Safety First”
with the first
Safety Razor.
Gillette
When you travel, when you camp,
when in the mornings you are hard-
pressed for time, you appreciate fully
the keen sharpness and correct angle-
stroke of the Gillette blade.
It is the one blade which will give the
real “Velvet Shave” —yet it needs no
stropping—no honing.
Standard Set, in neat leather case, as
illustrated 28/6
Obtainable everywhere.
GILLETTE SAFETY
RAZOR CO., CANADA.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
LTD., Wholesale Agents,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide.
WORLD OVER
THIS
m m
rmrm
dsf
Split-Sleeve
(Gives correct Set to Cuffs always)
Styled to tHe Minute.
Distinctive Patterns.
>
maw?*
For Smart Dressing “Taffatwill”
Shirts are unequalled.
Leviathan Taffatwill resembles
beautiful Taffeta, and is
obtainable in the newest striped
effects on rich cream grounds.
Shirts are well sewn, with reinforced
necks, split sleeves and sleeve-
lifts. Stiff or soft double cuffs as
preferred.
Neckbands 1 3in. to 1 Bin.
SPECIAL. .
146
IMPORTANT NOTICE!
MEN’S ALL-WOOL CASHMERE SOX.
Don’t miss this opportunity to secure these superior All Wool
Black Cashmere Sox, with seamless feet, splendid wearing quality.
ALL SIZES CLEARING AT
3 Pairs for 15/9
5 6 each.
Returned Sailors and Soldiers
allowed 10% discount.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE.
1
T
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
The Best Investment —
PEACE BONDS—6% INTEREST ’*
■m
a
as
XL
•»«*>
SS&
mil
mm
■£*
'' '
umunmm 1 1
feland,
IpOR transporting heavy loads over short or
* medium distances nothing beats the Steam
Lorry. It costs less to run than the Petrol and with
the addition of a trailer it can carry an exceptionally
big load. It is particularly suitable for haulage of
Wool, Wheat, Road-metal, Bricks, etc.
“To Pull the Wool’*
LEYLAND LOGIC
Owing to the boiler being in
front of the front axle and the
engine and gearing being
mounted in the frame between
the two axles a greater load-
ing space and a much better
weight distribution is obtain-
ed. Legiand Steam and Petrol
driven Lorries are made
throughout in our own British
Factories —STEAM DRIVEN
5, 6 and 8 tons; PETROL
DRIVEN, 2 to 6 tons, includ-
ing special Export models 3
and 5 tons—Stocks alwags on
hand.
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD.,
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Fty., Ltd., High Street, PreSton,
MELBOURNE.


WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
/:
O
c
vw
£
w
&
Si
S*
rt!
o
6
&Xl£
ART METAL SHOP FRONTS AND SHOW CASES.
ARCHITECTURAL ENRICHMENTS AND ART METAL CEILINGS
Stamping and Spinning done for the Trade. Stamping for Sheet Metal Motor Bodies and Parts a Specialty.
When planning buildings or extensions to Factory or Office consult us in the
matter of CEILINGS, WALLING and ROOFING. We Specialise in STEEL CEILINGS
“DURABESTOS,” “CEILYTE” & ROOFING TILES.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS:
SHOWROOMS:—
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W. POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
Jim Carew”: Living on the edge of a
big morass on the left bank of the Musa River,
Papua, there is a tribe of natives, the Aghaiambos,
who are-lower in the social scale than the Australian
abos. Generations of swamp-dwelling has had its
effect, and the natives are now exceedingly ape-like.
They are immensely strong above the waist, thick-
necked, long-armed and deep-chested, but their lower
limbs are dwarfed. Their feet are short and broad,
but thin and almost quite flat. The toes are long
and thin, and stand straight out from the feet as if
jointless. When standing up the legs look as if thev
were made of wood. The adults are for the most part
thmkly covered with hair, and this, added to their
shambling walk, gives them a very ape-like appear-
ance. The tribe moves about in small canoes, and
almost all its food, which is generally wild-fowl
fish, sago and marsh plants, is gathered in the swamp.
.They live in small; foul-smelling huts built on piles
about 10ft. high, and as far as I could gather have
no marriage system or superstitions whatever.
* * * *
“Uncle Toby”: At Tent Hill, three miles
? u * Emrnaville (N.S.W.), there is an open cut
half-filled with water. Suddenly appeared therein
several turtles. No one put ’em there, and it meant
a seven-mile cross-country jaunt from their nearest-
known habitat. Despite the fact that the water
contained appreciable arsenic, the family throve and
multiplied to the extent of several dozens. Now
without a farewell or by your leave, they’ve dis-
appeared completely.
EXPLAINED.
BABBER : “Nasty scar, sir."
CUSTOMER: “H'm — taxi turned over."
BABBER : “ Loose tyre?"
CUSTOMER : “No, tight driver."
“Bill R.”; When “Choppy” (B. 12/8/’2O)
next finds his camp and commissariat raided by the
all-devouring cow, let him pass the salt and Straw-
berry will quit. In districts where the earth con-
tains no saline properties, cattle grow salt-hungry
and develop a perverted taste that induces them to
become flesh-eaters, bone-chewers and the holy terror
of the charwoman. An occasional salt lick will wean
the worst of them back to be a decent sort of cow.
“Te W hare”: The N.S.AY. Legislature
had a try at a Birds’ Protection Act so long ago as
the ’sixties. The statute was known as the Game Act.
The first schedule dealt with imported game, for'
killing which the offender mjght be fined £2 and
ordered to pay compensation “to the owner of the
bird or animal destroyed.” The list included pheas-
ants, partridges, grouse, white swans and hares (£5
apiece) and deer and antelope ( £l5 per head). As
regards the imported partridges and grouse, these
soon shared the fate of the ornate Californian quail
introduced by Tooth at Kameruka (N.S.W.) at a
later date—the smellful native cat promptly gobbled
them up.
ON THE LIMIT ALREADY.
DOCTOR : You will have to rouse, yourself—take more interest in your business for
instance.”
PATTENT: “My dear thir, thith ith abtholutely impothible — I’m a moneylender.”
“The Wanderer”: The Waw-wyper tribe
which inhabited the districts of the Manning River
(N.S.W.) had a strange burial ceremony. The
bodies of those who died from natural causes or
violence were generally interred close by where
they died or had their mishap. The burial took
place at sundown. Just before that time the corpse,
wrapped in sheets of bark, was carried to the place
of burial by men, the remainder of the tribe fol-
lowing. The women kept up a monotonous wail;
the men carried pans
of burning fungus. A
quantity of this fun-
gus, vv hic h, when
smouldering, emitted a
strong but not unplea-
sant smell, was also
carried for burning at
the grave. When the
place appointed was
reached, the men put
the pieces of smoulder-
ing fungus in a heap,
and some of the un-
burnt stuff was added.
This fire was called
Nyan-gatta. The tribe
bel i e v ed that the
spirits of women be-
longing to other tribes
whose children had
died before them
always followed the
funerals of others, and
especially of children ;
and unless they were
prevented by the Nyan-
gatta, they would steal
away the bodies before
burial. As soon as the
fungus fire blazed up
and the fumes spread
about, the corpse—
which, until these mat-
ters were ready, was
held by the carriers—
was laid on the grass.
The grave—a shallow
hollow —was then made
by the men, some dig-
ging up the earth
while others scooped
out the loosened soil
with their hands.
W hilf-1 this work was being performed, the
women surrounded the Nyan-gatta, replenished
it with fungus, and droned almost inaudibly.
As the sun sank the corpse was lowered into
the grave, amid the wailings of men and women,
and was quickly covered up, both sexes assisting.
The remaining embers of the Nyan-gatta were then
scar ter (vi over the burial-place, and the mourners
returned to their camps.
* * * *
“Tallow-wood”: I’ll buy all the logs “Cape
“Pork” (B. 8/7/’2O) likes to send along, provided
their super measurement is worked out on his
backsheesh formula; but I’ll take good care that
in selling I use “H. Murray’s” formula (B. 19/8/’2O),
which is simple, and, what is much more important,
correct.
the outside edge. If the weather is hot the third
day will finish it. The bottle then should be nearly
full of oil, which, when cooled, will be heavy, odor-
less and almost colorless. If put in a bottle with
a glass stopper and stored in a cool place it will
keep for years. It is a good lubricant, and as it
is very penetrating it stands on its own for clean-
ing firearms. If the fat is melted on or near a fire
the properties of the oil are changed, and the result
is a dirty-yellow fluid with a thick sediment—
a very inferior article. The lizard has no teeth,
lives on insects, etc., can’t climb trees, and is per-
fectly harmless; but as his speed would make a
streak of chain-lightning seem to run in hobbles,
you may experience some difficulty in running him
down.
“A.R.W.”: Re “Gadgett’s” query (B.
5/8/20) about axe-handles. The prime cut of prac-
tically all euealypts is the two or three inches imme-
diately under the sapwood. The nearer you get to
the heart of the log the more brittle the wood.
Make your axe-handle of the outside cut. Dress it
with the flat side to the sapwood with a little of
the latter left sticking to it, and you have the best
handle you can get from a eucalypt. Our pioneers
on the N.S.W. South Coast used the wood called
Sally, a kind of broad-leaf wattle which sometimes
grows to a moderate-sized tree, 'though it is usually
small. It has a rather pretty light-brown wood—
at least, one variety has—which is inclined to turn
red or reddish when long seasoned. I know of no-
thing better in the way of Australian woods for axe-
handles.
* * * *
“J.G.”: One trouble with that stand-by
of the bush, the kerosene-tin, is to get the smell of
the oil out of it. This is the easiest way of all.
Get a good burning newspaper—the Akgus is splen-
did for this purpose—stuff it into the tin, and set
fire to it. If there are any traces of kerosene there
they will burn with the paper, and when the latter
is consumed all the smell will have vanished, too,
and no harm will be done. ■
“Gagi”: Agree with “Central West” (B.
5/8/’2O) that no nag can buck 2£ minutes on end.
But I can’t say I’ve found it true that a horse
won’t buck first time he’s saddled. Jim Scobie, the
abo. buckjump-rider of Northern Q„ always said
that the first buck was the worst, as the prad
pranced then from pure fear of the unknown on
his back, whereas subsequent attempts were only
obstinate efforts to beat an unwelcome burden.
“Silas Snell” : I was general factotum to
tommy the Hawker at the time we were camped
near a spring outside Emu, and turned out at six
in the morning to find a weird apparition had
thrown off hat, coat and boots on the brink of the
well. Tommy approached him. “Here, here!” said
he, what s the game ?” “Goin’ to drownd meself,”
replied the short, rusty man with his feet done
in bundles. “No, you are not,” said the hawker
decisively—“not in my drinking water. Go over to
the waggon and get a rope.” “I ’ate hangin’,” said
the rusty man. “It ’urts the neck.” “Well, I’ve
got to get my water for tea out of that hole, and
if you get kicking around in it you’ll stir it up
so it won’t be fit to drink. Hold hard, I know
what we can do.” Tommy came to the waggon, took
“Scottie Thrake” : The yellow sand-gohanua
is the one that yields the leal gohanna oil. This
fellow is fairly plentiful in the northern sandhill
country, where he is often 6ft. long, and when full
grown weighs 201 b. and more. To get the oil extract
the intestinal fat. Use care so that it may be free
from dirt and blood, and do not break the tissue in
which the fat is enclosed. Place it in the sun ion
a sheet of iron, so arranged that the oil will drip
into a pickle-bottle (any glass receptacle will do,
but a pickle-bottle is the best). Gum a piece of
fine linen over the opening and give it a bit
of a sag so that the oil, as it drips, will filter
through ; but take care that no cloth is lapping over
a bucket and filled it at the spring. “There ” he
said, “this wiU see us over. Now get on ’ with
your drowning. ’ The rusty man looked at Tommy
with cold bitterness. “Well, you’re a ’ard-’earted
Wanker! he said, and taking,.up his clothes he
ned. Coming back on the same road two days later
about a mile the other side of Bealiba we saw a
bit of a disturbance in the distance. Two men were
struggling for a minute or so under a tree Comine
nearer I recognised Rusty, who presently passed on
Tommy greeted the other man when we came abreast
What was the trouble? said he. “Damfool wanted
to hang hisself,” said the man. “Well, isn’t he
going to?” “No, not now. You see, he Kad one
threepence, and I gave him another.” Beer was six-
pence a pint at Bealiba.
* * * *
‘P. Harum”: The story told by “Scrub-
dasher” (B. 12/8/-20) of a cat which developed a
taste for her kittens’ ears recalls a similar case in
our establishment. But our culprit was a bitch
instead of a cat, and the titbits she fancied were
the puppies’ tails. Judging by the puppies’ pro-
tests they did not enjoy the feast nearly as much as
mother did.
* * * •
“Ragar”: Binghi’s feet cover a fair acre-
age, and can tramp over rusty barbed-wire without
hurt. But now and then he gets a puncture through
the inch-thick callosities he calls the soles of his
feet. A stray one wandered into the camp the
other day followed by three gins. They
nosed around for what they could pick up and
cadged for tobacco. Then Binghi picked up a
three-inch nail through not looking where he was
going. After he had yanked it out, he lay on
the ground on his tummy; one of the gins held
the ankle of the damaged foot while the other
two proceeded to smite the punctured sole with
sticks. Tiiey explained that their idea was to
make the wound bleed, and so bring out anv
poison that might have got in. Crude but effective.
A month’s bathing would not have softened the out-
° f tl>at let alone reached the punc-
# •
615 ’: It happened this year between
Springvale and Boulia (Western Queensland). Whilst
taking a station-hand to hospital per motor I
started a ’roo on a hard claypan, and he raced
alongside. 1 glued my eyes on the speedometer,
the hand crept round to 38 miles' per hour. It
was neck and neck for about a furlong; then the
roo seemed to wake up, raced a bit, and shot
across in front of us.
* * * #
Amalekite Talking of the ways of
oxen-conductors, there used to. be in the Berri-
willock district of the Victorian mallee a bullockv
who guided his team by whistling. In the lead
was an old stager wearing a collar: he took his
cue from the driver’s whistle-note, and moved off
in the right direction without the usual accompani-
ment of language, the remainder of the team fall-
ing into line like well-drilled soldiers.
* ' * * *
‘FY7’’: As “Hagai*” says (B. 12/8/’2O)
a wire-netting fish-net is popular in S.-W. Queens-’
land if somebody else’s rabbit-fence is handy to a
waterhole. I last saw the method employed at
liantara, on the Suez Canal, in 1916. Some of the
L.H. Brigade had come in from the desert to spell
and there was a lot of wire-netting about to build
horse-paddocks. The boys tried sieving one of
the big salt-water lakes nearby and got an amazing
haul of fine fish. All hands turned out for the new
sport and our Brig, conducted proceedings in his
shirt tails, finally going home bowed down with
the pick of the catch. Either they didn't agree
with him or something happened, for next day a
nark order pointed out acidly to officers that the
netting was for fencing-in horses and not fish, and
to blanky well see to it, or words to that effect.
A DISINTERESTED OFFER.
'Grandfather, mother says you're getting
into your second childhood. Don't you
think you'd better give me some money
to buy you some toys?"
GINGER TAKES REVENGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Take all the tricks of jealous men since woman’s kiss
was sweet,
And Ginger Hardy’s wicked trick I know you cannot
beat;
For Ginger loved the pretty girl on Peter Brody’s
farm, J
And Peter hated Henry Clay, and wished him every
harm. J
But Hannah looked with kindness on the face of
Henry Clay,
And from Hardy’s freckled visage turned with curl-
ing lip away ;
She kissed with Henry on a stump, and spent the
whole eve out.
If Ginger touched her hand, she said “Here, mind
what you’re about!”
Then came a summer night when ’neath the furze
they and spooned.
The ’possumS grunted in the trees, the little locusts
crooned.
And Ginger Hardy stole behind the lovers at their
ease
And dropped upon the billing pair a hive of Henry’s
bees!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


-tfyZfotd
Ctfetie
Always ask
A A
RUBBER
ds
The most
Appreciative
user of Dunlop
Rubber Heels
is the man or woman who
for a few days has to revert
to hard unyielding leather
heels after using ‘ Dunlop
cushion heels for some time.
What a difference! The pave-
ments and roadways feel like
walking on iron the spring
and resilience has gone and
at the end of a day your feet
and legs ache. The non-user
of soft “Dunlop" heels puts
up with a deal of tiredness
and foot weariness that he
can easily avoid. Tens of
thousands of men and women
today reap the benefits and
comforts that Dunlop
heels bestow, to say nothing
of the monetary saving that
is effected by having these
soft, wear resisting heels
fitted. They appreciate their
“Dunlops” and use them year
after year. You little realise
that hundreds of tons ot
these high-grade heels are
annually used in this country,
and they are worn because
of tangible benefits gained.
You can have the same com-
fort—with the same economi-
cal service—at a trifling out-
lay. Why not? All boot
’-.hops can supply, in various
shapes. Be sure they bear
:he ‘Dunlop" or “Oceanic"
Brand.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.
jP^Si***
It


Purest
Spirit
intHe
World.
v-rw
L. Fife's schnap^ 6 ■'')
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG* VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
■Z&I
*ss.
|' HtfiTuTT*'
mm
sSL
COLDS
COUCHS
croup
LUNG
vtoußia
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
mini 11
mrimmini
corruption had left its mark everywhere; all
the older, finer things were more or less
diseased; and even to-day the marks of the
disease remain like the pitting,s of small-pox
m °ur literature. Chiefly is this so in what
we call romance. The older romances of
Europe are rich with imagination and depict
men and women in action driven by strange
fates and moved by remarkable intellectual
impulses. Race, religion and the clash of
natural feeling against deep-seated custom
and a fantastic sense of honor are the moving
forces of the tales; for these are the things
that entertained the minds of peoples long
accustomed to settled order. But the old
Cermanic influence in literature was quite
? j ®t- The savage of the German forests
had hunted; and it was a tale of the hunt
,ho wanted. With Frankish or Gothic
masters to look to for reward, the maker of
tales began the story of the hunt. A
woman, young, beautiful and greatly to be
desired, was started as the quarry, and the
bold knight was sent out in pursuit. AVhen
he caught her the tale was done. That is
practically the theme of the modern novel as
well as of the ancient romance; and only in
recent times has there been any serious varia-
tion from it. Even now, though the book
may begin with marriage, it frequently does
so only to increase the romantic difficulties
of the pursuing hero; there is a capture at
the last. Yet in the great old romances it
was very different. Helen and Paris, Deirdre
and Naisi, Orpheus and Eurydice, Cuchulain
and H aud—one has only to think of the older
romance of Europe to realise how much
deepei it went and how much more interest-
ing to the reader with a trained intellect it
really was. The Germanic hunt, however,
makes novel-writing so much easier. What-
ever the background, whatever the purpose
of the book, the one plain plot stands to be
elaborated with all kinds of minor varia-
tions. Once in a hundred years a tale like
that of Deirdre might be invented by a subtle
and ingenious mind ; twice an hour the Ger-
manic plot can be worked out by any ordi-
nary person who has read a few dozen best-
sellers. That is the main reason why
fiction writers grow and multiply, while the
great romances remain still to be written ;
and that is the reason, too, why the actual,
scheme of most novels disappoints and all
stress is laid on the characterisation and
color. I fancy that if the .story itself is big
enough the characterisation and color can
always be depended upon to look after them-
selves.
C. O. M.
The Cult of the Simple-minded
One of the few absolutely immovable rules
for the writer is to aim at simplicity. A
French Academician (Paul Bourget, I
think) went farther than that. He said in
his election speech that the three rules of
literary practice are A, simplicity ; B, sim-
plicity ; and C, simplicity. So it has been
said that in French literature, according to
one of the masters, you can’t have too much
of this good thing. It is an unfair reading
of an unfair phrase. Simplicity is the great-
est of the cardinal rules, not the only one.
I think maybe the souls of men are bulbs.
The author of that incredible line is Miss
Margaret Mackenzie; the book, “The Sta-
tion Platform and Other Poems”; and the
publishers—good, misguided men—Sands and
Company, of London. It would seem a
line whose existence is difficult to explain, in
spite of the French gentleman’s mot; but
the difficulty is not really great. The thing
is a horrible example of the ultimate
ditch of forced, lazy simplicity, reacting
from the complication unjustifiably corre-
lated with work. The line quoted is not
simple; it is simple-minded.
The deliberately simple line .has a good
secondary place in expression. Rupert
Brooke used it well. His:
And is there still honey for tea?
at the end of “The Old Vicarage, Grant-
chester, apart from its strong charm, serves
the quite legitimate purpose of bringing the
reader down to earth again before taking
leave of him. The line also makes Brooke’s
longing for his home and garden most near
and natural—as if a ll his hi’falutin talk
came down at last to the remembered honey,
the little domestic thing crystallising all the
larger memories. That is good, simple
color, artificial only in its placing, not at all
in its thought.
William Butler Yeats, on the other hand
is too fond of an artificially-forced sim-
plicity of thought and atmosphere. For
instance, his “Lake Isle of Innisfree”
(which always reads to me as if it thought
too much of itself), with its
Nine bean-rows will I have there, and a hive for
the honey-bee.
One’s (this one’s) first thought is- Why
nine bean-rows? Why hot green bean-rows
or tall bean-rows? Even two bean-rows
would be better; one on each side of Yeats
would be half-way reasonable. But nine is
the very Devil. After a little hysterical
thought on the matter, I get so that blue
bean-rows, on- pink, or speckled, or any
kind of bean-rows, seem good to me, so long
as they are not nine.
Again, this intensive fairy-culture which
has been shot a t us so enthusiastically this
ast 15 years or so. Put me in my oldest
bags and sit me under a tree, and I will
hob-nob till further orders with the fairies
I can see and hear. But in my “best”
clothes, filling up a six-shilling seat at the
theatre, there aren’t any fairies—how could
there be? The utter simplicity of Peter
Pan coming down to the “foots” and calling
for a round of applause as a proof that the
audience believes in fairies is over the odds;
if there had been a lost fairy in the theatre
that would have finished him. But all the
open-faced people believed all right; you
could see them getting purpler and purpler
over it. And “The Blue Bird’s” simple,
self-conscious hunt (with the spotlight on)
for happiness—that was too sweet. All
that is simplicity to order, as complicated
and artificial as the modern author and
theatrical manager can make it. Its end is
the drunkenness of simplicity which juxta-
poses bulbs and the souls of men as equali-
ties in literary vision.
It is a good thought or hope to bring
your copy to the high level of the kinder-
garten ; there things are monosyllabic in
their force and directness. But it cannot
fairly be carried on to the sad place where
vegetables are mistaken for immortalities.
Ihe end of that might be vers libre.
L. J. H.
" Britisher”
This is an American coinage, and haS
nothing to do with the English language.
Had we a Chair of English Literature in
our Melbourne University to-day the profes-
sor would tell us so. It originated some-
thing less than 40 years ago, at a time of
strained relations between America and
Bntain. With the passing of the occasion
or assumed occasion, the Americans, verv
sensibly and entirely to their credit, dropped
it. It is open to us to do the like;
and we should, for it was used as a
term of contempt and reproach. It would
be not quite so easy to find its equivalent
in English as in French, where “laclie,”
miserable," or “ imbecile ” would readily meet
it. But “Britisher,” as among ourselves and
most _of the Euglis'h-speaking iracesi, the
American except, is now taken, as applied
to the individual, to stand for super-man, or
one more British than the British them-
selves—the “deformed transformed,” or
the term of opprobrium exchanged for a
title of honor. We are told that it has
come to stay; indeed, usage might be
pleaded, for it is everywhere in use at some
time or another. The press, the Parliaments
and the pulpits all find it in their vocabu-
lariesand (though barely provoking a
smile in most) we have here and there and
everywhere the perfervid patriot banquet-
orator raising his eyes and his glass as he
strikes himself on the breast exclaiming
aloud his thanks to Heaven that he and his
were all born “Britishers” ! Of course, such
a one can have no conception of the reproach
and contempt contained in the term. There
aie possibly but few who have ever investi-
gated its origin and intent, but as reflect-
ing on these, as also on its subsequent trans-
formation and instalment as a title of honor
one is irresistibly carried back to Pope’s
Belinda
2" .* 1 , el w h*t e breast a sparkling cross she wore
Which Jews might kiss and infidels adore.
G. G. McC.
The Detested Darling
No other Australian Governor was so gener-
ally hated as Ralph Darling. Even Bligh,
though he was overthrown by the Rum Rebel-
lion, had strong supporters-; the small land-
owners, for instance, - seem to have been
mostly on his side. Yet on the evi-
dence of the original documents contained in
the Historical Records of Australia, of which
volume XIII, giving the Governor’s despatches
from January, 3827, to February, 1828, has
just been published, he seems in many ways
to have deserved well of the country. Though
narrow-minded and formal, he was honest
conscientious and capable. In the face of
great difficulties, and in the midst of con-
flicts with newspapers, Judges and nearly
everyone else around him, he brought order
out of chaos in the public service and did a
great deal to make the machinery of govern-
ment run smoothly. And it has to be remem-
bered that the clerks in the Government
offices were all convicts; one gentleman had
been transported three times. As to the offi-
cials sent out from England, he writes in
the bitterness of his soul in a letter to Under-
secretary Hay that ’’persons having claims
on the Government consider that N. S.
Wales affords an excellent asylum for fools
and madmen as well as rogues and vaga-
bonds,” and he quotes his predecessor, Gov-
ernor Brisbane, as saying that “an angel
from Heaven could not get on” in the N. S.
Wales of the period.
Dike his contemporary, Arthur, in Tas-
mania, Darling never forgot that his main
mission was to run a convict settlement, and
he did a great deal to tighten up the “sys-
tem, ’ which seems to have become pretty
loose and easy-going in patches under Mac-
quarie and Brisbane. He found that at Port
Macquarie over £lOOO a year was being spent
in providing little extras and titbits to keep
the prisoners in good humor. It seems to have
been more comfortable even than Pentridge
His worst mistake, if he wanted the future
to speak well of him, was to quarrel with
the newspapers; for they succeeded in im-
posing their point of view on many his-
torians. The Australian and the Monitor
damned him up hill and down dale whether
he was right or wrong. And when he tried
to do a little gagging he hadn’t half the
luck of Arthur in Van Diemen’s Land. His
stamp-duty and licenses were disallowed by
Chief Justice Forbes, and libel action after
libel action failed owing to the attitude of
the Judges and the disagreements of juries.
It was a rotten job to run a newspaper on
the Government side in those days, accord-
ing to a memorial of Robert Howe, editor
and proprietor of the Sydney Gazette, and
son of its first publisher, George Howe.
Robert says that his exertions in opposing
the “advocates of misrule” were “dangerous
to himself in such a degree as once to expose
his life to the Act of an Assassin.”
A Satchel of Books
The Duchess of Siona, by Ernest Goodwin
(Collins). One of the season’s best, full
of action and color. The characters—Petro, »
and Beatrice the Duchess and Malatesta—
are all a little more (or less) than human;
but these were the days of mediaeval Italy,
and in the right atmosphere the incredible
becomes only the picturesque.
Australian Mature Pictures, by Chas
Barrett, C.Z.M.S. (McCubbin, Melbourne),'
should be in every naturalist’s library. The
photographs, mostly of birds, are excellent.
Infinite patience and cunning have been
necessary to catch the subjects at home, but
the results have justified the vigils. In a
well-written introduction the author talks
admiringly of the camera-naturalist whose
hard work and enthusiasm have given us
these biographies. Barrett, by the way, is
responsible for several photos, but the prize
goes to A. H. E. Mattingley’s study of a
native-bear.
Crossing the Line with the Prince spreads
itself over 48 pages of print and 18 of illus-
trations. Angus and Robertson publish it
By Authority; and somebody ought to take
Authority aside and tell him that paper is
scarce and dear. Engraver, printer and pub-
lisher have done their work well, and it
wasn’t worth doing.
The Socialist Illusion, by Reginald Tayler
(Oreo. Allen and Unwin), would have been
quite in the picture a dozen years ago. In
that jocularly superior manner which G. II
Reid employed here during his 1906-7 anti-
bocialist campaign, the author proceeds to
tilt at all sorts of non-existent windmills.
I here is a lot of this sort of thing:—
John Smith is the proud proprietor of a house
for which, as the result of many years of painful
tnritt, he has paid in solid cash the sum of £3OO.
Worthy John, face to face with Socialism, duly
arrived at last, finds that he is no longer permitted
the ownership of his house. The State is to own
everything. But John need not be alarmed; he
will be compensated for compulsory acquisition. He
sleeps in peace and, sleeping, dreams of the profit
that extra sum always accompanying these com-
pulsory processes—which will go to his credit over
the transaction.
And then, laboriously, waggish to the bitter
end, Mr. Tayler demonstrates the impossible
position of John as a result of the State
having attempted to swallow, apparently at
one gulp, the houses, estates, banking-
accounts, stocks and shares of everybody.
State Socialism is pretty weak, the world
over, these days. The war gave the official
a fatal exposure. The Commissioner who
inquired into the N.S.W. coal question
stated the position neatly:—
Nationalisation is apparently not viewed favorably
as a solution of the industrial problem by the
employees or their industrial organisation, their
main objection being that it merely means a chance
In Aa? lc^ the employer and a continuance of
all the essential causes of their dissatisfaction with
the present system.
The French jurist Fabry points out in his
book on the Bolshevik Constitution that the
property principle is adhered to even in the
Russia of Lenin. There is a tendency on
the part of all political sections to socialise
the essential services; not in order to
aggrandise any one class or to penalise the
rich, but for the general good of the com-
?n m o y ’ • f- 01 ’ tlle rest the Socialists who
talk hociahsm to any extent nowadays aim
at the total destruction of the State. They
represent an even smaller proportion than
the body which, before the war. considered
that the Millennium would arrive as soon
as everything in the world should be State-
owned and administered. The sections that
matter are studying Whitleyism and Guild
Isocialism, and at the same time revising the
old-time British working-man’s notions con-
cerning the virtues of cheap imports, whether
in the form of goods or foreigners. Inas-
*s tre ats of none of these issues,
i tie socialist Illusion is valueless, except
as an interesting relici
The Inky Way
In Victoria a committee of the Field
Naturalists’ Club has been engaged for a
long time on a revision of plant-names. It
ai ™ s at Producing a work giving both the
scientific and the vernacular names of all
Victorian plants, along with a brief account
ot them—habitat, uses and so on. But
although (or perhaps because) the book
would be very useful the State Government
boggles at bringing it out. However, Whit-
combe and Tombs talk of publishing it, and
even of giving the Club a royalty.
T he re are teardrops on this from
JD.M.W. :
Artists can seldom spell; poets never. —Great
truth by some very wise man.
I cannot spell. Forgive the awful deed—
V’s and Ph's play at odds and evens.
For “Stevens” in the article please read
The true, correct and ever-honored “Stephens.”
The awful deed was committed on the Red
Page of the 19th August.
Concerning the Hunter-street organ, Frank
Fowler in 1859 wrote this:—
The Morning Herald is the only daily newspaper
in Sydney, and has a circulation of between seven
and eight thousand. It is worth, I believe, to Mr
Fairfax, its proprietor, about 10 thousand a year.
On the day of the departure of the European mail
20 thousand extra copies are circulated. The pro-
prietor has lately built a new office —a huge stone
fabric in the Italian style—at an outlay of £30.000.
There was, until September last, a second daily
paper, called the Empire, which was also charac-
terised by considerable ability. This paper, how-
ever, was in the hands of an inexperienced, though
persevering man, and falling year after year into
deeper difficulties, at length “died” with a debt of
£60,000.
MORNING AFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A frantic milkcart clatters on the cobble-stones of
morn,
The harsh Venetian blinds rip up to splash the
room with light,
As with a whoosh the sun glares out, a bloodshot
eye of scorn,
To gloat upon the crayshells and the bottles of
last night.
The roaring west wind’s fingers tear at quaking pane
and sash,
A-down the street dead papers spin, a crazy
tarantelle;
The front door booms responsive to the back door’s
racking crash,
And an infant joins the chorus with its devastat-
ing yell.
A wicked, whirly eddy tears my copy to the floor;
The ink is full of muck, the pen’s a stub;
A savage debt-collector thumps his tattoo on the
door
So I think I’ll take a stroll down to the pub.
N.S.W.
JACK SOMMERS.


f
The StudeWker “Big Six”
the car with the surplus
T
HE Studehaker “Big Six” is a powerful car. But it has more
than sufficient power for ordinary, normal needs, it has a
surplus of power—a reserve of energy—to be drawn on
confidently in the emergency.
The “Big Six” is a responsive car. Not only responsive in the
ordinary way, but owning a surplus of responsiveness. It answers
instantly like a well-mouthed horse. This is a tremendous attribute
in the tight corner or amid the congestion of city streets.
There is a surplus of beauty in the lines of the “Big Six”—more
than is needed to make it attractive or just sufficient to sell it.
There is a surplus of comfort provided by its splendid upholstery
and fine springing that make it a travelling cradle of content.
“Big* Six” Special Features
126-inch wheelbase, with 36-horsepower Studebaker-designed
and Studebaker-built demountable-head motor with two-range
carburetter, shock absorbers, artistic straight side slanting wind-
shield with ventilator base and integral corner lights, jewelled
eight-day clock, tonneau light with extension cord, Gypsy top with
rectangular plate-glass window in rear, 33 x 4£ inch Goodyear
Cord Tyres throughout, including spare.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 1 77 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch, Timaru,
Palmerston North, Wanganui.
ds


&
They Don’t
Miss
A BID.
Wincheombe'-Carson
men get every pos-
sible penny buyers
can pay at the
yards.
The firm’s salesmen are alert and know
values. That is why each new Winchcombe-
Carson sender becomes a Permanent Client.
Top Market Prices.
CONSIGN SHEEP AND CATTLE:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Homebush Yards, „ r
Sydney. or
LTD.
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
f
Children who are growing
fast are kept in health by
nourishing food, but between
meals they often become
very hungry. This is not
good, but can be easily
remedied. Stuff a few of
these wholesome, appetising
biscuits into their satchel, so
that they can satisfy their
cravings as opportunity
occurs.
s ~ixty < l/czr'ielie,S‘
fIUOtMUw
r\
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR ECONOMY
The money you spend daily on trams,
trains, and other conveyances, the
small items you are tempted to pur-
chase when walking, reckoned up for
the year, will give you some idea of
the economy practised when you decide
to purchase a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings.
With a little attention and care, de-
preciation is practically unknown, and
long service has become one of the
outstanding merits of B.S.A. quality.
It will pay you to purchase a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings in preference to
a so-called cheaper bicycle, because
the reputation of years is upheld in
the quality of each individual fitting
produced.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
BISA
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR B.S.A HANDBOOK FREE-
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co., Ltcl.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE,
MB
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for abcye AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
dsf
ds
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
I Of all Stores.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents,
BAKER & LONQHU RST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
J
cool
L
*5
Mr
of
IH’i
&
1
1
=J aT>
j:
m
ft.
7M
o-l *
J-
J oaV?>
JH
J
There is no slight-
ing of labor and
no skimping of
materials in the manu-
facture of Thistle Shirts
—They are perfect but
easy fitting across the
chest, do not bind at
the arm holes, have full
skirt length, stripes that
are centred and match I
properly, and pre-shrunken
neckbands that assure perfect
collar comfort. Thistle Shirts
are the best.
Sold at all Lending
Shirt Departments.
Have you tried
THISTLE PYJAMAS?
Alexander Stewart 8 Sons Ltd
Makers
Brisbane and Sydney.
- **» j
uiiiyji
URODONAL
I
MAINTAINS YOUTH OF THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ike Pagliacci” : A plumber of Maylands,
a suburb of Adelaide, saw no reason why he
shouldn’t combine business with loyalty. In
his shop window, during the visit of H.R.H.,
he exhibited a sign:
Why Are Our Cisterns Like the Prince of Wales?
Because They are Flushed With Success.
* * * *
“Saucer Eyes”: Re the great Australian
industry of pawing. A consignment of
foreign crockery was landed in Sydney re-
cently, and before it reached the retailer it
changed hands seven times. I have a theory
that, if the superfluous shufflers could be cut
out, all the trade and commerce of the city
could be carried on by about 12 men.
* * * *
“J.A.G.”: Time someone paid attention
to imported measures. An alleged measure-
glass for medicines which I tested the other
day gave the following results: —
Alleged Measure. Real Measure.
2 teaspoonfuls . . 1£ tcaspoonfuls.
3 teaspoonfuls . . 2 teaspoonfuls.
1 tablespoonful .. 2 teaspoonfuls and 40 minims.
2 tablespoonfuls . . 1J tablespoonfuls.
These fraudulent glasses are only used in
cases where accuracy is of importance and
they should be inspected before they leave
the Custom House.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Such shocks as finding his tin
concentrates mixed with metallic iron, black
sand or tourmaline, not to mention worn-out
sledge-hammers carefully concealed in the
bottom of the bag, have all contributed to
make the ore-buyer a suspicious man. Some
of the wolfram buyers at Bamford (N.Q.)
lost heavily a few years back through buy-
ing roasted iron pyrites for wolfram. The
roasted rubbish has exactly the same appear-
ance and cleavage. Some of the buyers also
bought tons of their own wolfram. The stuff
was lying in stacks, awaiting transport. The
bags of concentrates were simply borrowed
through the night, sold in daytime to the
buyer, who obligingly made a new stack of
them ready for the next night’s raid.
* * * *
“J.G.”: “Smike” (B. 12/8/’2O), in com-
paring the imported Oregon with our native
hardwood timber, did not mention that the
Yankee wood is a prime favorite as tucker
for white-ants. Nearly all the Vic. State
schools that were erected during the 20
years or so before the war were built with
Oregon studs, wall-plates and floor-joists. I
doubt if there is a single one of these build-
ings in a sound condition, in spite of prettj
constant attention. I have helped to pull
down and rebuild dozens of them, and in
many cases the Oregon studs were empty
shells, held together by the Baltic weather-
boards and linings. These other softwoods
were also being attacked by the white-ant,
but not to the same extent as the Oregon.
The timber schools now going up are being
built throughout of Australian hardwoods.
On behalf of my descendants I am game to
bet that they will outlast the Oregon ones by
the best part of a century.
* * * * *
“Dasith”: Re the “romance of a bad smell”
(B. 19/8/’2O). It is quite wrong to suggest
that the Commonwealth Government com-
pelled Australian producers of sulphate of
ammonia to make 40 per cent, of their output
available for local requirements. The whole
of the home consumption had to be met
before any sulphate could be made available
for export. A permit had to be obtained
from the Customs, and guarantees given that
all local requirements had been met, before
export was allowed. It seems distinctly un-
fair that the users of sulphate of ammonia
can obtain for their products the best prices
in the world’s whereas the pro-
ducers of sulphate of ammonia are compelled
to sell at a proclaimed price. Quite re-
cently the Australian Gaslight Co. made
arrangements whereby their workers received
an increase in wages of over £60,000 for the
ensuing year; yet the co. was refused per-
mission to sell the by-product at a greater
price than ruled during the past few years,
which is an absurdity. The price of sul-
phate of ammonia as a by-product very
materially affects the selling cost of the
primary product, which in the case 'of the
Australian Gaslight Co. is gas, and with the
Broken Hill Proprietary is steel, etc. Thus
the controlling of the price of sulphate of
ammonia must be reflected in the cost of steel
and gas.
DON’T CALL HIM A PROFITEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the cosiest business place in town
From morn till eve I sit;
Though some keep hammering prices down,
I’m raisin’ ’em bit by bit.
I’ll raise ’em high as the silver moon
That floats in the atmosphere,
And only ask for this one small boon —
Don’t call me a profiteer.
With a step unfaltering, firm and strong
• Trade’s tortuous paths I tread;
The art of passing the cost along
I know from A to Z.
I buy dirt-cheap in a dead-slack slump,
And sell in a mart that’s dear;
But, though you squeal when the prices jump,
Don’t call me a profiteer.
By whomsoever the cards are dealt,
At play I win the dough;
I shear more wool from the public pelt
Than anyone else; but though
I live by pulling the public’s leg,
And biting the public’s ear,
One small concession I humbly beg—
Don’t call me a profiteer.
The creamiest creamy kind of sport
Is doing the public brown;
I own one house at a health resort,
And another one here in town.
But, though my divvies, if I don’t err,
May average somewhere near
From one to a couple o’ hundred “per,”
Don’t call me a profiteer.
When I’ve skied the price to the pale, cold stars
Of everything I sell;
When I’ve bought a couple of Rolls Royce cars,
And married the reigning belle;
When I ’ve stripped the fleece till the pelt is
bare,
And there’s. no wool left to shear;
Why, then, if you think ’twill make things square,
You may call me a profiteer.
x.s.w.
IRONBARK.


%
<9
A
O
*
G
«s
SB
WHAT’S BONE DRY
WHAT’S NOT?
Not every storage battery that is called “bone
dry” is really shipped and stored in bone-dry
condition.
Some have solution put in at the factory and
poured out again before shipment.
Some are shipped with plates dry and insulation
wet.
These batteries are not bone dry.
“Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation” is the
only form of insulation that permits a bone-dry ship-
ment and storage of automobile starting, lighting
and ignition batteries.
4B«h. Jam. mjML. aaa.7
EBBBBBB *«■•*■* BibIIIIIUHBM UUiUUJf HBimtltwl*
i
STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY


ffolcpniyf
Hdsieia
Hoieproofs are made by
scientific methods, de-
veloped only in recent
years.
(Dearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of always having
perfect Ho siery soft,
neatly-fitting, stylish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“HOLEPROOF ”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Hoieproofs multiply their
durability.
If your dealer cannot supply
you, write us.
Indents and'Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
59 York Street :: Sydney.
ac
&
*OHte
CR^MEEICAYA
r
Make Your Skin
Like Velvet
DON’T you wish your
face was as smooth
and fair as your body? It
would be if protected
from wind and dust. If
you want a clear smooth
skin.
Follow this simple formula—
"A little CREME ELCAYA
nibbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of faoe
powder over all."
CREME
ELCAYA
Is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size. 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/6-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
201 Clarence Street, Sydney,
B^s
3®lßi
El
rii
■ r
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading' Hotel,
A l
!
,k '“l <»
c john«ohum
<AC»X« Wit _
Ctnm
Just
Like New
ANY housewife can easily
A keep her home clean
and bright by devoting a
little attention to her furniture, woodwork, floors and
linoleum. All they need is an occasional application of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. This cleans, polishes and pro-
tects the finish, adding years to its life and beauty.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a hard, dry, glasslike
polish of great beauty and durability. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches —preserves the varnish—and
prevents checking and cracking.
11
Liquid and Paste
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil consequently it
does not gather or hold the dust and it never becomes soft
or sticky in the hottest weather or from the heat of the
body. It will quickly and permanently remove that bluish,
cloudy appearance from your piano and mahogany furniture.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made in liquid form as well
as paste. Use paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile, lino-
leum, etc. We advise the liquid for polishing furniture,
woodwork, leather goods, etc.
A Dust-Proof Auto Polish
Automobile ill "find Johnson’s Liquid Wax the
most satisfactory polish for their tars. It sheds water and
dust and makes a "wash” last twice as long. Protects and
preserves the varnish. Write for ou folder on "Keeping
Your Car Young”—it’s free.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
How far does your girl have to travel to
school? There is a miss of 16, Britcliffe by
name, who covers 105 miles every day—
from her home at Saratoga, near Woy Woy,
to Sydney (Fort-street) and back. It means
a trip by launch, train and ferry and vice
versa, starting at 6 a.m. and finishing at 6.15
p.m. No 44-hour week there!
Five years’ war and the Protection which
it gave us have worked some great changes.
Major Syd Addison, who left off running the
Iluon (Tas.) newspaper to become a flying
man in Palestine during the row there, is
going back for a run through Syria, Turkey
and the Balkans in the interests of Austra-
lian manufacturing companies which are
looking now for an export business.
A well-known Sydney man, secretary Jack
Reardon, of the Catholic Club, has been com-
pelled to hand in his resignation owing to
serious ill-health. He Was one of the late
Lady Dudley’s lieutenants in organising
the Bush Nursing scheme, was on the
staff of Norton Griffiths, learnt a lot of
political wrinkles as secretary to Speaker
Morton and others, and holds a Royal
Humane Society medal for saving two
women from drowning.
On the heels of the discovery that brown
coal lends itself to pulverisation and is being
used as powdered fuel in Melbourne, comes
the news that an American engineer has
mixed oil and powdered coal, and obtained
a superior fuel. He calls the mixture col-
loidal fuel, and turns it out as liquid, paste
or jelly. All kinds of oil and coal can be
used to make this fuel, which has a very
high calorific value compared with black and
brown codls. The colloidal fuel can be used
in marine and land boilers, and, presumably,
in locomotives.
A note from Brisbane :
According to Knibbs, puerperal septicannia has
killed 2071 Australian mothers in the last decade.
The condition is more common than these figures
suggest; Dr. A. J. Nyulasy’s estimate —he has been
vice-president of the gynaecological section of the
Medical Congress here —is that the mortality in the
English-speaking world is 10,000 per annum. And
for every fatal case there are three of chronic invalid-
ism or permanent sterility. In a paper read at the
Congress Nyulasy outlined a treatment, the general
adoption of which, he contends, would reduce the
present death-rate by nine-tenths. He is a specialist
from Westralia, having been gynaecologist at the
Perth Public Hospital for years.
Dr. 11. T. Lovell, Sydney University’s first
Professor of Psychology, is a native of N. S.
Wales, and was educated first at his father’s
school, and later at Fort-street (Sydney).
He became a lecturer in modern languages
at the Teachers’ College, graduated in 1906
(being then 28), sniped a Woolley Travel-
ling Scholarship, and put in two years at
Jena (Germany). His Philosophy Professor
there was the famous Eucken, Nobel prize-
winner and signatory to the professors’
manifesto supporting the war. Lovell got
his Ph.D. at Jena, returned to Sydney, and
took charge of the psychology work at the
University. He has published divers
learned remarks in various erudite publica-
tions.
“Murkah” : “Arthur R.” and “Catamain”
state that telegraph-lines work better in
wet weather. Those I’m on don’t. Clean
water is a non-conductor, and the film of it
on the wire would retard rather than aid the
passage of the current. But with the addi-
tion of water telegraph-poles become con-
ductors to a slight extent, and thus permit a
fraction of current to escape. On short lines
this is negligible, but in wet weather on long
lines it mounts up (poles average 22 to the
mile). The real corker is the fact that the
loss varies, necessitating frequent readjust-
ment of instruments and consequent loss of
time. In the early-morning hours, on N. S.
Wales coastal lines, often the whole of the
current is thus lost by leakage, and it is not
till the sun evaporates the moisture that
working is possible.
“Good Australian” : How highly important
the discovery of local petroleum would be
to Australia is shown by the latest Customs
figures, giving imports for the year to June
30:—
Gallons. Value.
Kerosene .. .. 15,625,776 £791,517
Petroleum spirit .. 24,880,631 2,401,251
Lubricating oils .. 3,089,207 329,209
Total .. .. 43,595,614 £3,522,077
Most of these petroleum products come from
U.S.A. and the Dutch East Indies. Other
oils, fats and waxes worth £1,232,260 were
brought from abroad, making a grand total
of £4,754,337. These importations show how
helpless this country is in a most vital spot
in its industry. If anything happened
whereby the U.S. put an embargo on the
export of petroleum products, the majority
of our automotive machines would stop work-
ing. And that embargo is more than a pos-
sibility, because the demand for crude oil
and gasoline (petrol) in North America has
already outstripped the home supply. It
would pay the Commonwealth to spend a
cold million in boring for oil.
“Awaruite”: Tasmanian industry is suffer-
ing severely because of the inefficiency of the
State’s railways, Government and private.
These roads have had the distinction of
being the slowest in the world —not that
speed has been sacrificed to safety, but just
.because the easy-going Apple Islanders have
never stirred the self-satisfied politicians.
Freights and fares have again recently been
increased, heavily in some directions, not
with the object of making the service efficient,
but simply to meet the ever-increasing
operating costs due to old-time methods. To
carry tin ore (in bags) between Burnie and
Launceston (120 miles) now costs over 4£
times what it used to, a rise out of all pro-
portion, especially for primary producers
not in a position to pass it on. Ore from
Waratah (the main West Coast producing-
centre) to the Launceston smelters, a dis-
tance of 165 miles, now costs: Waratah to
Burnie, £3 per ton; Burnie charges, Is.;
Burnie to Launceston, £3 13s. 4d.; cartage.
3s. 6d. —a total of £6 17s. lOd. per ton, equal
to about lOd. per ton-mile. The ore could
be sent to England or Straits Settlements
smelters for the same as it costs to deliver
to Launceston. The same applies to other
ores; nowadays we have the unique spec-
tacle of lead ore being brought from
Westralia to the lead-sulphate works at
Launceston because it is less costly than to
secure supplies from Zeehan,


« .
iaa*:'
,v
"
$P^
-
Metal goods are produced
cheaper the Gomox way.
s
CORES of metal articles made in Australia to-day by old-
fashioned processes like seaming, brazing, riveting and
fire-welding can be produced quicker, cheaper and
better by Oxy-Acetylene Welding. Oxy-Acetylene Welding is used by the greatest
metal-goods manufacturers of the world because it not only increases production and
lowers the cost of the article, but produces an article of higher selling value.
One great advantage of the Oxy-Acetylene Process is its adaptability. You don’t need to drag
the work to the operator—if it suits him better to take the outfit to the job, it is easy to do so.
He can work in any position, in any direction, and the Oxy-Acetylene Outfit is entirely self-
contained. Whatever your metal work, from the sheet, bar or pipe* let us show you how to swell
your production and make a better article for less. You can’t use an Oxy-Acetylene Welding
Outfit unless you need it! Send particulars of your work to us; we will give you expert advice
without obligation.
Commonwealth Oxygen 8 Accessories Limited,
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, 3G2 Collins Street. ADELAIDE—Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd.,
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE—Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street. LAUNCESTON —Harrison Bros. & Co.,
Ltd., 20 Patterson Street. PERTH —Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street. FIJI —Brown & Joske, Suva.
:s
2»
mssmir
-
<■■■ .
V.
These Angle Rings were made far quicker and cheaper with the Oxy-
Acetylene Blowpipe than by fire welding, and the work is accurate, ,
which is a very important feature.
D 37«
i'§> v
<►*
X
K=
In The New Home
BEAVER BOARD is a distinct improvement,
not a substitute. It opens the way to more
attractive as well as more permanent interiors.
When years of service are considered, it is the most
economical kind of wall and ceiling for your home.
Beaver Board cannot crack. Plaster must crack
sooner or later —usually sooner.
The Beaver Board result depends largely upon
the way this good building material is used. In the
hands of skilled carpenters and decorators, there
are no limits to the degree of beauty which may be
obtained. Yet this same product lends itself to the
task of waste space finishing where high cost
would not be justified.
The one important requirement is “Buy Genuine
Beaver Board!” The trade-mark is printed on the
back of each panel for your protection.
Beaver Board is stocked by Timber Merchants
and Builders’ Furnishers. See your local dealerl
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Canada London, England Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Mills in Canada and U. S. A.
Australasian Representative
0. D. GORDON, G. P. 0. 2408, Sydney, N. S. W.
BEAVER.
You can’t expect
Beaver Board re-
sults unless this
trademark is on
the back of tho
board you buy.
FOR. BETTER. WALLS & CEILINGS
sale-
SIR
MADE IN
CANADA
BEAVER
BOARD
f


In Pimples. Very Sore/ Not Able
To Touch. Cuticura Heals.
“I suffered for years from a rash on
my back and chest, which first broke
out in small white-headed
pimples and then spread in
scaly masses which were
very sore and itchy, causing
loss of sleep. It became so
sore that I could not bear
anything to touch it.
“I then sent for samples of Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment and the red-
ness and scales began to disappear.
I bought more and I was healed.”
(Signed) Miss E. G. Saville, Brighton
Parade, Cabramatta, N. S. W.
Use these super-creamy emollients
for every-day toilet purposes. Soap to
cleanse and purify, Ointment to heal.
For sample each address: *‘R. Towns &
Co-, Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Cuticura Soap ahavea without mug.
*3
Dental Cream
jgg|
r THE regular useofWill-
iams’ Dentalactic Dental
Cream means fine, well-
cared for teeth, which ex-
press health and
refinement. Will-
iam s’ Dental-
actic Dental
Cream is a per-
fect dentifrice
and an efficient
antiseptic
which preserves
he teeth, keeps
them clean and
beautiful, and
kills the danger-
ous germs in
the mouth and
throat, keeping
them in a fine,
healthy condition.
Sold by Chemists
Everywhere.
Send 1/9 i n
stamps to Wil-
liams, Box 98
G.P.0.,/ Sydney,
for full-sized
tube, post free.
W. 6
ORbi
tv.v. 1
Williams
'’'DsnialacHc''*
■to.us.iwr. off-
Dental
Creaw
ja
fife
THE I
j B.WILLIAMS CO I
CLASTON6UW CONN.Uf
V.V.V.I
'iumuziM
PENS SAFFTY RAZOR BiADES
ds
600 Shaves
in One Blade
with the Only Heel &
Toe Motion Stropper.
Post Free, 30/=
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Send To-day to
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDHEY,
And COMMERCE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
GRIP GRIP
TYRE REPAIR OUTFIT.
Every Car Should Carry One.
Large. Medium. Special Ford. Motor Cycle.
7/6 5/- 4/- 37-
Makes a permanent repair.
Reduces your tyre bill because vulcanising is un-
necessary.
Made specially for the Australian climate by
Australians.
Sold Everywhere.
Manufactured by
STANDARD MOTOR SUPPLIES,
17 Burns Street, Sydney.
Fairbanks - Morse
“Y” Oil Engines
4
m
Reliable
Power
at Low
Cost
T
HE “F”Oil Engine produces power at a mini-
mum cost because it operates efficiently on
low-priced oils fuel oil, crude oil, stove oil,
“Solar” oil, gas oil or kerosene—and because it con-
sumes less fuel per horse power than other engines.
The "Y” Oil Engine is simple in construction and practically
automatic in operation and regulation—no carburetors, batteries,
mixers, valves, timers, igniters, magnetos, switches or spark plugs.
Special quick-starting device; air seal prevents oil from being
blown out of bearings; positive lubrication, sensitive governor.
No hot bulb—no water injection.
Size 3 from 10 to 200 H. P. Every "Y” Oil Engine is guaran-
teed by Fairbanks-Morse Quality —an assurance of reliability,
economy and efficiency.
DANGAR, OEDYE & COMPANY, Ltd., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd.,
Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks,
f INCORPORATED
Morse <*(§
I I MANUFACTURERS
..Foreign Dept,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
London. England
Buenos Aires, Argentina
“ THEY COME AS A BOON AND A TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
Of course you want
PLUME ?
The garage man knows Benzine values.
He knows that a satisfied customer comes
again and brings his friends. That is why
such a number of garage men say:—
“Of course you want Plume?”
They know that Plume gives genuine
continued satisfaction that it gives easy
starting, quick acceleration, full power, and
good mileage.
Satisfy yourself that these are not
empty statements. Put Plume to the test
on the steepest hills ; test it
on the level for power and
mileage. Test it for easy
starting on a cold morning.
You will be delighted with the
result. When ordering, ask
for Plume —don’t say Benzine.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 26
t^SSS
>5
m
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Hannibal ’: Australia can claim some
fine shots, but here is my claimant for championship
honors. His eighty-first birthday he spent shooting
with one of his sons on Jones Island among the hares.
There were only two started, and my champion shot
them both at full speed and within five seconds of
each other. His name is James Eggins, and he is of
Coopernook, on the Manning River (N.S.W.).
F. M. Clements, whose death occurred
recently, had a fondness for racing, but also saw in
it a medium for advertising his tonic. In one of
the Melbourne Cups of the early ’nineties he nomi-
nated Clements Tonic. It was the nucleus of a fine
advertising scheme; but he presently thought better
of it, deciding that it might be unwise to fall foul
of the racing authorities, and so rather reluctantly
dropped the project.
* * * *
Edward K. Bancroft, the crack lightweight
of the ’seventies, died in Melbourne lately. Ilis nest
win was on Nemesis in the Metropolitan of ’76.
On the return journey to Victoria the City of Mel-
bourne, upon which Bancroft, his mount and other
valuable horses were travelling, ran into a heavy
storm. All the horses except two were lost. One
of the rescued was a colt which won the A.J.C.
Derby unnamed, and was subsequently christened
Robinson Crusoe in memory of his escape from the
sea. Robinson Crusoe became a great racehorse and
a noted sire. Bancroft was. 60 when he caught the
Judge’s eye.
* *■ * *
“Singapore”: Some speedy Australian
nags of the past are still earning tneir oats in this
steamy part of the world. At Penang on July 22
old Baralang, carrying lOst. 71b., won the Mile
Plate from Walpole, Bst. 41b., with Heart of Oak,
(by Trafalgar), lOst. third. The time, lmin.
43 4-ssec., was good, considering that it was a diffi-
cult course for a big horse like Baralang. Other
starters were Garibaldi, Auberic, N.G.E., Varcofel,
Astrico, all ex-Australian neddies. This was Bara-
lang’s first win in Malaya. Heart of Oak (who
comes from W.A.) and Baralang started equal favo-
rites at 13 to S against. *
“Old Sport”: Many Sydney bookmakers,
pleading the pinch of their heavy expenses, are cut-
ting out 10s. bets. There is no written law re-
garding the sum which a bookmaker in the Paddock
must "bet, though it is generally assumed at the
horse courses that he must lay the odds to a fiver
• when he calls the price—which is the reason why
the average lkey Mo fails to mention the favorite’s
price if his volume has a column or so against it.
Punters who have had their 10 bobs contemptuously
rejected, with occasional lingual embroidery, hold
the view that as the A.J.C. has fixed the tote mini-
mum at 10 bob, it should act in a similar way with
the ringman. Generally, however, the small bettor
has sufficient nous to do business with others than
the big “nod” books.
* * * *
“Tin Hat” r The housing shortage has
butted into the discussions of the Vic. Cricket Asso-
ciation. A Collingwood delegate complained that
his club was losing promising players because they
couldn’t get houses in ’Wood. The Association rules
provide that players must belong to the club of
the district in which they reside. He suggested
that portion of the Northcote district should be
ceded to Collingwood, a notion that infuriated the
’Cote delegate, who declared that his club was up
against the same trouble. A proposal that players
forced to vacate their district should be permitted
to play with their old team was received in stony
silence. But some amendment of the residence rule
will be necessary, as there is certainly no room in
such suburbs as ’Wood for new houses.
Until be has had a few more outings in
public it would be unreasonable to ignore the pre-
tensions of John Wren’s uag, The Rover, for the
Caulfield Cup; nevertheless, it is undeniable that
the gelding looks very like a deceiver. He was sent
to Sydney lastrApril to run in the Doncaster and
Sydney Cup, and finished at the tail-end of the field
both times. On the strength of having won a
Maiden Plate at Moonee Valley a few weeks earlier,
The Rover was fancied for the mile race by stable
connections. Misbehavior at the post put him clean
out of the contest, and when he followed up this
failure by running last in the Cup it was pleaded
for him tlfat he was too “green” to win a two-
mile race, anyhow. But with only 6st. 91b. on
his back he never got near the front. His creden-
tials amount to nil. Yet The Rover is spoken of
for the Caulfield Cup by people who wouldn’t think
of backing Eusebius (Bst. 131 b.) on account of his
weight. Why ? '
» * * #
The breeding of Strathredole, by Tressady—
Perdita, is perhaps a matter for future rather than
present objection. Colbert is by Tressady from
Perdita’s mother (Eloping Lady), and Colbert con-
spicuously receded in public estimation as he aged.
But it may be argued that the deterioration didn’t
begin till before the end of his three-year-old season. As
a young fellow he was fairly trustworthy, like that
slashing mare Thana, also by Tressady, who proved
a great disappointment in her middle-age. Tressady
seems to have given better looks than dispositions to
his progeny thus far. Still, there is plenty of time
for his stock to redeem the family reputation. Strath-
redole’s maternal grandfather is Wallace, the gamest
of racers and a sire whose children mostly improve
with age. But it isn’t from the maternal side that
the Derby colt gets his fine appearance. That comes
from Tressady. Another handsome son of his is
Daarewin, a five-year-old who showed respectable
form in Adelaide three months ago, but is probably
not quite so good as he looks.
* * * *
R. J. Stafford (Kelvin Grove), the all-
round champion of the Q.A.A.A. this season, is a
finely-built athlete who thrives on all sorts of exer-
cise. His aggregate of points at the recent cham-
pionship meeting at Brisbane came from a first in .
440yds. hurdles (64 4-ssec.) and seconds in 220yds.
and 440yds. fiat and broad jump. The hard work
deserved reward. Stafford stripped for Queensland
at the Australasian Championships in February, but
failed to make much impression. Last year he was
second in the 440yds. and 880yds. Queensland cham-
pionships. In the Sprints R. R. Burguez had a
monopoly and badly defeated the opposition over
100yds. (10 2-ssec.) and 220yds. (24 l-ssec.). At
last year’s championships the slim flier defeated
W. W. Hunt (at present at Antwerp) over 100yds.
in the record time of 9 9-10 sec. Other double win-
ners were W. Morahan in 880yds. (2min. ssec.) and
mile (4min. 411 sec.) ; and G. Lewis in 161 b. shot.
(37ft. 9in.) and discus-throw (97ft. The
successful N.S.W. reps, at the meeting were A. W.
Winter in broad jump (19ft. llin.), E. E. Smithers
in three miles (16min. 15sec.), and the bronzed R.
G. Piggott in 440yds. (52Jsec.).
* # * *
“Viovi”: When R. J. A. (“Dicky”) Berry
came from Edinburgh to be Professor of Anatomy
at Melbourne, he brought his clubs and a book or
two of golf stories. Like Professor Wilson, of Syd-
ney, he was famous for his “orals,” and the oppor-
tunists were agreed that nothing except a good golf
story would enable the struggling student to dodge
a harassing oral. Anyhow, an embryo anatomist
who didn’t know much spread that report. He
floundered into the room, and before he could start
a yarn Dicky commenced hurling the questions
around. Fortunately the first happened to be about
depressed fractures of the skull; so without a word
on anatomy, the tyro started on one of Berry’s
favorite stories —that about the youthful caddy who
threw several fits,- sank into a coma and died, after
having been hit on the head with a golf ball. “So
you are interested in golf?” queried the Prof. “Yes,
sir,” he replied, and leaned back to listen to Berry’s
return story. “Well, then,” went on Dicky, “kindly
enumerate, mentioning their nerve-supply, the chief
muscles used at the game.” The student took a
hazard and plunged. “The chief muscles used, sir,
are those of the larynx,” and there followed a
string of their names. “Well, Mr. V ,” the Pro-
fessor said, “you may not know too much about
anatomy, but I ken well you understand the really-
important points in golf.”
(Continued on page 38.)


5 , **, 0 ;:.;- ? r y ." ,
a fflii
&* *
i-
mem
:
FOR
hire:
■
-*■ •>
■ ■
-
A ■'
■V
$■
: :Ui.
vx
.4
r
is
m
m
■/:
fill
■
m
■
*:•
%
f
A- 1 *:
•■s
I
81
■
W/'ti
> <$
/
v i
jgK!
||l
m
FAR
r
E
Si
;7-
Mi
-
H
■
tm&As
XX
■ si
i.
-
«$ •
H
up
*
;v •
'
:&■
\
■
Si
■r.: i
|fc
..
fi
jgi
1
a
i *
bhhhH
m
■
MW»
Perdriau
Tyres
Satisfy
the Taxi Driver
THE Private Hire Man and the
Taxi Driver watch tyre mileage
carefully.
Running cars for their living, mileage
intimately affects their earnings.
Neither guesswork nor theory has any
place in their estimation of tyre values.
They are essentially practical men, and
their judgment can be accepted as sound.
Here we reproduce the opinion of a lead-
Sydney Hire Garage on Perdriau Tyres.
Obtainable from
Perdriau Rubber Co*, Ltd*
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
DOLPHIN STREET (near aquarium) COOGEE
TELEPHONES
368
369
RANDWICK
ttwssvss&sdmsmi
TELEPHONES 1
368
369
RANOWIOK
October 7th
McLEOD'S HIRE GARAGE
(WHERE THE GOOD
CARS ARE).
Messrs Perdriau Rubber Co,
270 George Street, Sydney,
TY*ri. roar*
Dear Sirs,
The 920 X 120 covers we purchased from you have
given very satisfactory results. So far they have covered
5000 miles on the rear wheels of a Mitchell Six & have
outworn higher priced imported tyres ty 1000 miles.
As you know, we have a very extensive hire business
running eleven oars, and have not only used every tyre in the
market but our business necessitates our keeping a very
careful record of each cover, and we are satisfied that
Perdriau tyres offer the best value worked out on the cost
per mile.
Yours Faithfully,
McLeods hire gahace.
s
a
f
dsf
im


A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, embossed border, 84 j.
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
Silver-plated Frame, Crystal Cut-
Glass Bottles, 60/-
I
A. Saunders’ Soup Tureen, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, plain design, £ll/11/-
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, Gilt-lined,
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Crystal Glass Dish,
SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, polished
Oak, A 1 quality, Silver-plated
Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality,
clear Crystal Glass,
10/6.
h '
A. Saunders’ Jam Dish, pure Silver-
plated Frame, Fancy Glass Dish,
25/-'
A. Saunders’ combination Fruit and Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, £l3/13/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(Opposite Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished and engraved, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettla,
pure Silver-plated, AX quality,
highly burnished, £5/10/«
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, £7/10/-
m>
■%
-':V-
-\
m
<£
\
b p^
is
■■■
I
X.
&b
-v
, *•>
t
• m
Xi\
e*'r
c^d
Perfect scones —perfect
cakes, puddings and blanc-
manges when you cook
with Nestle’s Milk.
“ Nestle’s ” cooking is
both economical and easy.
You save eggs, sugar and
butter —you save trouble
Write to-day to 347 Kent Street,
Sydney, for Free Copy of a Valuable
Cookery Book containing over 100 recipes
for cooking with
Nestle’s Condensed Milk
Made in Australia.


Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tl.eatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINIOSH.
ivoli theatre, sydney.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE’S ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
THE MAX FROM TORONTO.
Plans at Nicholson's and the 'I ivoli-
“plVOLl THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Prices as usual.
|_J Klt MA.IKB T V ’ 8, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY A 1 •
I.AI A Is JLD ---
C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMED
COMPANY in
YES, UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
Plans at Paling’s.
QUITK It I O N I'H SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
ALACK THEAT It E, SYI)N E Y.
Lessees: J. &N. TAIT n
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. . m „
IATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT
THE BLINDNESS OF VIRTUE,
A play in four acts by Cosmo Hamilton.
lans at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
pHE PLAIHOUB E, SYDNEY.
Jii r L A I n V t o
Castlereagh Street, near Fire Station,
essees- J. As. N. TAIT. Direction GERALD GRIFFIN.
THE BEST SHOW IN TOWN.
GERALD GRIFFIN,
the Famous Irish Singing Actor, in
THE ROSE OF KILLARNEY.
Plans at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
JI KAT It K It OY A 1,, SVDN E Y.
Direction AUSTRALIAN PLAYS LID.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
THE BOSS COCKIE,
tie most humorous Australian comedy ever written.
10,000 LAUGHS NIGHTLY.
Plans at Paling’s.
u
NI O N PICTURE THIS A T RES
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KING’S Til EAT RE, MELItOU It N E.
Lessees: RAILEY & GRANT
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THREE WISE FOOLS. „
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
I C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
P* ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
lOLANTHE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LAST TW’O NIGHTS OF OUTCAST.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 11.
THE DUKE OF KILLIECRANKIE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
MACBETH.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” now Touring
South Island of New Zealand.
Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
EDITH DAY in
CHILDREN NOT WANTED.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amnsempnt*.
HOYT’S THEATRES, JIKIJiOI'KNK.
Also NYI)SBY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge!.
THIS WEEK’S FEAT UP ES :
TOM MIX in
THE FEUD,
and
MARY MACLAREN in
VANITY POOL.
Prices as usual.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
HIT ANN IA THEATRE, MELBODKNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
Katoomba Annual Eisteddfod
(Under the direction and control of the Katoomba
Chamber of Commerce.)
OCTOBER 6,7, 8 and 9.
At Beautiful KATOOMBA, on the roof
of the Blue Mountains.
£275 Prize Money and Trophies.
ENTRIES CLOSE 28th SEPTEMBER.
Adjudicators:
Music: T. H. Massey, Esq.
Elocution: Rev. George Walters.
SCHEDULES and particulars on applica-
tion to E. GORDON-GARRETT,
Corresponding Secretary,
Katoomba.
Missing Friends.
I~~F MRS. MARY ELWOOD STUBLEY,
. late of Mortdale, daughter of the late
William Smith, of Summer Hill, will call on
Stephen, Jaques and Stephen, 12 and 14
O’Connell Street, Sydney, she will hear of
something to her advantage.
Tenders.
THE RAVENSWOOD DEEP
MINES LIMITED.
(In Liquidation.)
Ravenswood, Queensland.
rjIENDERS ARE INVITED for the pur-
X chase, in one lot, of the whole of the
Machinery. Plant and Buildings. Cata-
logues and conditions of Tendering obtain-
able on application to the undersigned.
TENDERS CLOSE on TUESDAY,
TWENTY-EIGHTH day of SEPTEMBER,
1920, at the office of
A. LAURENCE WILSON,
Mining Engineer,
Ravenswood, Quenesland.
The Story of
the Twenty-first
(21st Battalion, A.1.F.),
By Captain A. R. MACNEIL, M.C.
The Story of the 21st Battalion is the
Story of the A.I.F, Though of para-
mount interest to old members of the
6th Brigade, it will appeal to everyone
connected or concerned with the
A.I.F.
It is an official war history, containing
nine specially drawn maps,
and is reasonably priced at
2/-
AVrite to-day for a copy (post free)
from
21st BATTALION ASSOCIATION
391 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Or from
HUTCHINSONS PTY. LTD.
305 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
'
%
3m
SAFETY RAZORS—
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors,
with Strop .... 12/6
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for
travelling 15/6
The ‘PLDM’
is the
Razor for Me!”
This noted Razor is no new invention-
thousands are sold annually. The “Plum
requires but little stropping, as its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the
stiffest beard, and gives just that smooth,
velvety shave which every man appreci-
ates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present.)
“Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 and 10/6
“Plum” Strop Dressing 1/2
Al I the above Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
a end for
Illustrated
Folder
&CO.
$
r
Vice-regal Shirt-makers,
314 George St.,
Sydney.
Spring and Summer
Shirting and Pyjama
Materials in Silks,
Zephyrs and
Taffetas.
%
"i
1
c>
■
Men of Action
“ Yes—Chairman Cigarettes were always the best
‘ issue fags ’we got during the War. I developed
the Chairman habit then and have smoked nothing
else since. They're the ‘ dinkum ’ smoke all right."
TO
o
CIGARETTES
Renowned for their quality, purity and flavour. The
Medium is a stronger Cigarette the "returned" mai
TOURNAMENT CIGARETTES
CHAIRMAN
[’s favourite.
Every packet
of Chairman or
Chairman med-
ium contains 10
full weight
Cigarettes for
Sd
A “de luxe” edition from the Chairman
Factory. Made from the finest straight-
cut Virginia leaf, and the very best
Cigarette procurable. You can't buy better.
Obtainable from all leading Tobacconists.
Tournament
Cigarettes are
sold at. ...
50 for */-
25 for 2/5
10 for I/-
S. J. LEA LTD., Chairman Factory, Manchester, and 418 George St. SYDNEY
Qijbcnsland
Calling
ds
f
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name
Address —-
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
All the great good in milk,
Nature’s all-important food* becomes
available when it is prepared with Bengers.
The way to prepare Benger’s Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon every tin of Bengers rood, and
special formulae, commenc.ng w th babies of from one to
three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within the tin.
S 3
Food
|§ a natural Food, always prepared with fresh new milk, or milk
and water, according to the age of the child.
Benger's Food is more than an addition to milk. _ It is specially
prep art d to perform the important duty of modifying cow s milk
to the delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most helpful to mothers, post free, from 4
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturer. BEN GEE S FOOD LTD, MANCHESTER, England.


6^
BOORD&So*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
Swift & Company L,t<l„ Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
BOSTOCK’S BLACK LIQUID
ds
s'- ■■;
9
OS3KS}
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
SUEDE DRESSING
keeps shoeware soft, does not lay down the nap
and maintains their original perfect black.
Bostock's Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
OF COUNTRY-WIDE FAME.
The Ever-ready,
Ever-reliable
‘JACKEROO’’
RAINCOAT.
There is no other Raincoat quite like the “JACKEROO”— or
nearly so good for the money. An All-purpose Coat that is
worth more shillings than the shillings you are asked to pay.
And there is “A 12-Months’ Guarantee.”
Material is in FAWN color. Strong DOUBLE TEXTURE
Macintosh, having layer of RUBBER between the two layers
of cloth, thus rendering it absolutely waterproof.
IDEALLY SUITED FOR RIDING, DRIVING or WALKING.
The Jackeroo” has V-piece fitted at back to cover back of
purposes this can be buttoned and
CONVENIENTLY closed up.
n W
M
j.
63 1-
Carriage Paid.
BRISBANE.
LIMITED
TOOWOOMBA.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
tt , SY fif EY SH OWS FOR COMING WEEK,
licit Matty's “Yes, Uncle »
pff T^, R , ION “Irene”
falace . “The Blindness of Virtue”
The Blayhouse “The Rose of Killarney”
1 1 vOLi “The Man from Toronto”
Moving Pictures
Lmon Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “lolanthe”
Royal “The Duke of Killiecrankie”
King s . . “Three Wise Fools”
Princess s “Macbeth”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
„ LBA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciakium Dancing
♦
Tne plays that Australia imports have
advantages. They are proved successes else-
where, or they would not come; the vastly
more numerous failures simply disappear.
Also, if they were loosely built at the start
they have in most cases been worked over.
Regarding the matter from this point of
view there is much room for satisfaction
with the new Australian venture, “F.F F ”
now being tried at the Prince of Wales
(lately Tivoli) in Adelaide. By the time
it reaches other countries it will have been
greatly improved. Thus it was found at
once to be far too long, and on the second
night the four acts were played as two. But
the raw material is certainly there.
* * * *
De Garis, the live-wire from the Murray,
was given a free hand by Mclntosh when
writing “F.F.F.,” with Greig for producer,
and Huge Steyne and Minnie Love to “write
round.” The bluff young Australian of the
story has to go to London (with his typist)
to collect an enormous sum offered by an
eccentric uncle, if he will dress, talk and
behave as an English dude. Being Steyne,
he has no difficulty whatever in doing that,
though he hates it. In England, they pick
up comic servants, Marie Le Varre and Rex
London, also Uncle, and Minnie’s mother to
pair off with him, and a firm of quaint solici-
tors, the whole bunch getting to Australia
for the fipish. When Rex London has had
a year or two to work up his part, he may
find time to make his English coachman sur-
prised at the transplantation here. De
Garis, in a laudable anxiety to keep clear
of “Our Selection’* types, has produced a
well-dressed crowd, rather cosmopolitan than
Australian. But local color can easily be
stirred in to flavor. Stoneham’s music is
tuneful, Workman and Maggie Moore give
fine studies of the elderly parts, and the
chorus sings and dances well —in fact, it
might have more work than it gets.
* * sk *
“The Blindness of Virtue,” now open to
the serious-minded of Sydney at the Palace,
is a full stage-brother to the sort of English
serial story some Australian papers still im-
port at cheap rates. The casual reader,
sampling, say, “The Vicar’s Dilemma” for
the first time at Chapter VIII, finds the
aged clergyman frowning at his third
piece of toast and informing his scared
wife that “the time has arrived, my
dear —Gertrude must be told.” In Chap-
ter XII, after much sighing, Gertrude
is told and leaves the room, “a red
spot on either cheek and her firm white chin
held high”—if necessary on a step-ladder. If
the serial-besotted reader persists and
samples Chapter XVIII, he (or she) dis-
covers that what Gertrude was told was that
she must not encour-
age young Toddle-
bush. “The Blind-
ness of Virtue” de-
mands an audience of
English serial-readers,
and that is something
it won’t get in Aus-
tralia. The Rev.
Harry Pemberton and
his wife have a sweet
young daughter who
knows less than no-
thing and is full of
the vague yearnings of
adolescence. She falls
in love with the Hon.
Archibald Graham, a
noble but “misunder-
"OUTCAST,” AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Marie Tempest as Miriam.
stood” youth who has come to read for the
Bar with her father. When she is silly
enough to go to the young man’s room for a
chat and morning tea, and actually skips
into the bed he isn’t occupying, he being fully
dressed, he begs her to go and put her clothes
on. ' She insists on remaining and forcing
him to make love to her. When the noble
vicar enters and finds his spotless che-ild in
the serpent’s arms, he thinks she is Lost like
Mary Anne, the village’s shocking example.
Of course, dear, guarded Effie hasn’t even
been mislaid, and the curtain falls with
everybody happy except the audience, who
at leasft expected to get one thrill and find
that it was either Effie’s young man, if it
wasn’t the Vicar himself, who “betrayed”
Mary Anne.
* + * *
Percy Rhodes glooms along as the high-
minded and humorless parson, and Mrs.
Brough fits the part of his devoted wife, who
recoils from the job of instructing Effie in
sex. Dorothy Manville has charm enough
for the sugar-plum job of Effie, though an
Effie a few pounds lighter would seem more
probable. Prank Freeman, the “misunder-
stood” lover, emotes like an American pic-
ture-actress in moments of stress, and Emma
Temple, as the vicarage cook, attends to the
comedy in a riotous manner. Beryl Bryant
sobs and sniffs as Lost Mary Anne.
V* * *
“lolanthe,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, satis-
fies all reasonable demands, though there are
a couple of parts that could be improved on
the dramatic side. Frederick Hobbs as Earl
Mountararat, for instance, strikes this critic
as a stodgy ornament of the peerage who
hasn’t the grace. and manner to match his
picturesque clothes. Nor is James Hay con-
spicuously comfortable as Earl Tolloller.
Courtly and handsome as every Tolloller
should be, he still doesn’t look sufficiently
grateful for the chance of capturing the win-
some Phyllis. And in this instance Phyllis
is such a picture that even an extra show of
ardor would have been pardonable. Patti
liussell, as Phyllis,
scores a pretty Dres-
den China effect and
sings sweetly through-
out. John Ralston is
a lovelier Strephon
than Melbourne saw
in Villiers Arnold kix
years ago. The new
man is a pink, cheru-
bic creature who has
artfully hidden his in-
clination to beefiness
and achieved a very
passable appearance
of youth. Neverthe-
less, he seems a very
big boy beside his
fairy mamma, Thelma
Carter, who is a
larger lolanthe than
Dorothy Vane was of
yore. Thelma
warbles her lines with
great confidence, and
having dropped her
trick of watching her
audience sho w s
greater attention to
the job in hand. Ethel
Morrison makes a
well-favored E - ' ai r y
Queen, and gets many
opportunities for the
deep, warm notes of
her lower, register.
Strella Wilson is a
tuneful Leila, and
“Outcast,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Graham Browne as
Geoffrey Sherwood.
there is any amount of music from the fairy
bodyguard. A prancing Lord Chancellor with
spidery legs demonstrates that low comedy
is still the gospel according to Charles
Walenn. The actor, however, uses his dry
little voice in a noticeably humorous manner
in several places. Albert Kavanagh is a
bulky Private Willis, and the chorus of peers
produces a., quantity of sound specially
smooth and pleasing in the tenor department.
** & *
Compared with Kathlene Macdonell’s
Flossie of three years ago, Marie Tempest’s
“ Outcast” at Melbourne Royal is more to
be congratulated on her choice of a dress-
maker. Kathlene never owned the duds
with which Marie tries to conceal Miriam’s
position in society. Marie’s Miriam is smart;
she wears the brightest frocks without a hint
of dowdiness; and she has a more tactful
tone in the violent passages wherein the
Amurkan actress was unpleasantly shrill.
All the same, Kathlene’s sinner had the
advantage of youth and passion. Marie
Tempest presents an older and more re-
fined type, who sheds tears with decorum
and never gets mad enough to suggest a
low origin. In most respects Graham Browne
as Geoffrey is a mellow counterpart of his
lady lovb. Not so pretty as Charles Wald-
ron, w r ho first did the character in Melbourne,
he is a more mournful canoodler in a state
of perpetual regret for his shoddy affection.
His weakest work is in the emotional scrim-
mages, where he sounds unexpectedly forced
and stagey. Dorothy Hamilton, as Valen-
tine, hasn’t the voice and good looks of the
Australian. Beryl Bryant, w'ho shone in the
role on the previous occasion. Armorel
Kemp is only moderately convincing as Nellie
Essex, but Doris Gilham is effective as
Beamish. Geoffrey’s two pals, Hugh Carter
and Tony Hewlett, are played by Ashton
Jarry and Roger Barry. Jarry is dark
and heavy, whereas Barry is a light and
sunny juvenile whose remarks, even on seri-
ous matters, are regarded as a reasonable
excuse for mirth. Next Saturday “The
Duke of Killiecrankie” will be staged.
$
The plot of “Yes, Uncle!'’ is about the
thinnest clothes-line J.C.W., Ltd., ever
strung across the stage of Sydney Majesty’s;
but the musical-comedy faithful will go to
see it and get their money’s worth out of
comedians Frith and Field Fisher, the danc-
ing-girls led by Madge Elliott, the dresses
and the scenery. There are about three
snappy tunes, a lot of average stuff, and at
least two songs that are dull and should be
cut out. The show leans heavily on Frith
of the india-rubber face, who works every
comedy trick known to science and gets
laughs out of them all. A wild rapid-sketch-
ing burlesque in particular is a perfect
example of how to extract the last giggle
from a bit of simple fooling. Field Fisher,
who plays Uncle Hollybone, a roaring, sun-
burnt hunter in heavy boots, arrives late to
set everyone lying and speed up the skeleton
plot. It is his job to look apoplectic and
bay like a bloodhound at Frith. What would
Comedy the world over do without the
bellowing rich uncle?
* * * *
Madge Elliott is the one feminine star who
matters—especially in her last black dancing
costume. Cecil Bradley, as the jealous wife
of artist William Greene, only arrests atten-
tion in the quarrel duet she shares with him.
Gracie Lavers makes too shrill a widow.
George Willoughby, as a burlesque revolu-
tionary, has to work overtime brandishing
a huge revolver. Cyril Ritcliard hoots a
love-song or two and makes a handsome
dancing-partner for Madge Elliott. Jack
Hooker dances a drunk’s dream, Rita
Nugent being the smiling fairy who flits
through it. As is usual in these shows, the
dressing and dancing of the Eight earn a
sigh of thanks. One or two familiar faces
are missed, but the Line of Grace and Ele-
gance is still drawn delicately with eight
pointed toes. If a pair of superb legs should
drop out, apparently there is always another
pair. They are amongst our most assured
Great Natural Resources.
“The Rose of Killarney” duly bloomed on
Saturday at the Playhouse, and a satisfac-
tory crowd of Sydney Irish turned up to
hear Gerald Griffin tenor the songs that are
always part of an Irish hero's stage-outfit.
Griffin, an Irishman via New York, satis-
fies the eye and fills the tilted ear. But the
usual pot o’ sentiment is flavored with a few
references to Ireland’s present troubles ; and
the row between the two ends of Erin is so
bitter at present that it would seem wiser
for an actor-manager to confine himself to
the shamrock-strewn past. Alma Rock Phil-
lips, J. P. O’Neill and Roland Conway are
the best of Griffin’s Australian support. The
brogue varies wonderfully.
** * *
A second look at the new “Luck of the
Navy,” at Adelaide Royal, confirms the first
opinion of its familiar details. The whole
idea of kindly, hospitable German spies in
England, a fraudulent “wounded Belgian,”
and a kidnapped British officer, recalls “Seven
Days’ Leave”; from “Within the Law” comes
the flashlight into the darkened room at a
critical moment; and the ever-acceptable
idea of an all-important document casually
left about was in the Sardou drama, Eng-
lished a.s “A Scrap of Paper,” long before
the Hun had given a new meaning to that
phrase. The new play’s strongest point is
its humor, the comic middy—cleverly played
by Reg Long—having a real bearing on the
story.
*
Moiseiwitsch has nearly completed his
second series of operations at Melbourne
Town Hall. Last Saturday night the mas-
terful Russian dealt sympathetically with
12 composers, the most hackneyed piece being
Chopin’s Funeral March. When he had fin-
nished that the audience responded with a
noise calculated to make any pianist feel
that he hadn’t lived in vain.
** * *
Another warrior at th,e easel
P. R. Crozier’s war pictures make an impressive
show at the Melbourne Athenamm. He depicts the
untidiness of shell-blown villages with forceful real-
ism, and he also presents in numerous studies the
fine spirit and physique of the Australian warrior.
Doubtless some critics will find his palette too lively
for their taste, but the free use of the raw primaries
in his battle subjects seems to enhance the luridness
and horror of war. Perhaps his best performance
in this style is “A Wrecked Village,’’ which is
notable for two well-drawn Diggers inspecting the
ruins in the foreground. Some aspects of the Somme
winter are also faithfully treated, and he notes a
lovely effect of twilight in an evening sketch around
Grevillers. The airtist’s view of a football match is
comparatively uninteresting, but his one portrait of
an old man (No. 41) is an excellent bit of \york.
Sfc ❖ sfs ❖
Allan Wilkie, at Melbourne Princess’s, gets
no encouragement to meditate an extra-
special revival of “Hindle Wakes” at some
future time. • The meaty little play is too
human and too short, apparently, for the
multitude. It dispenses with all the non-
essentials that extend a two-hours story over
three-hours, nor does any broad comedy or
mrid melodrama come within its sphere.
Only some of the citizens who have heard
it are grateful for the plain, straightforward
“THE MAN FROM TORONTO,”
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Minnie Hubbard (Leslie Graham) and
Mrs. Hubbard (Leslie Lester).
essay in concise conventional comedy—with
a difference. The work-girl who persists in
declining to be made “an honest woman” by
the chap she had ‘‘a bit of fun” with is the
difference; and Miss Hunter-Watts makes
almost the best of her opportunity. Also
Wilkie and the rest of them leave the spirit
of the author little to complain of. On
Saturday a Shakspeare season is to start with
“Macbeth.”
* * He
At Melbourne King’s the discovery of a
pearl necklace in the coffee-pot continues to
be a fair break-up for Lizette Parkes. Also
the Three Wise Fools are as artless in their
bachelorhood as ever.
'l* '!• 'l*
“Bran Pie” goes on supplying the vaude-
ville want at Melbourne Tivoli. Lee White’s
songs at the piano have been restored to the
pie, and Geoyge Gee’s conception of Hamlet
is mellowing with age.
H= H= H« H«
“The Boss Cockie” packs his dress-suit
and the other trappings of a good harvest
after Friday night’s performance gt Sydney
Royal.
** * *
All goes well on the Sydney Criterion
front, where “Irene” hops the bags every
night at 8, and twice weekly at matinees.
H: * * H=
At the Tivoli “The Man from Toronto’* is
still catching hatfuls of Sydney money and
earning it all.
* ❖ * H«
“The Man from Snowy River” rides to
win at Sydney Strand and the Lyric against
a perfectly gorgeous background of the
Great Dividing Range. Australia in val-
ley and mountain and plain has been regis-
tered by the camera-man ; and Cyril Mackay
and Stella Southern weave the principal
threads of Banjo Paterson’s story. Connie
Talmadge has a field-day with the men as
“The Virtuous Vamp.” Her path is strewn
with roses red; but Connie is an in-ner-cent
girl despite her optic exercises, and as Miss
Jones, stenographer, she repudiates with
scorn the fur coats, limousines, week-end
residences and gilt-edged stock that are the
daily offering of every self-respecting typist.
This simple little story of everyday is told
at Crystal Palace and Lyceum. At Picca-
dilly and the Hoyt’s “Checkers” is a nice,
clean-faced young man who had been on
the upward path as a bookie’s clerk till love
and ambition bred the germs of discontent
in his brain. And good old Bill Hart bush-
ranges in an aura of glory at Globe and
Haymarket.
H« H! * *
English films are becoming fashionable at
Melbourne Majestic. The latest, “A Woman
Wins,” tells how a resourceful damsel shoos
a number of schemers off her bag of cash.
Violet Hopson, as the lead, shares the audi-
ence’s regard with Norma Talmadge, who
suffers heavily from blackmail in the big
feature film, “A Daughter of Two Worlds.”
The Britannia started the week with H. B.
Warner in the light-comedy guise of “A
Fugitive from Matrimony,” while the Melba
is presenting Olive Thomas as the rustic
bride of an erring duke in the rather hack-
neyed tale of “The Glorious Lady,” Hoyt’s
menu is graced with Mary Maclaren and
Anna Q. Nilsson and other stars in a semi-
political romance called “Vanity Pool.” The
second subject, “The Feud,” brings Tom Mix
into notice as a' frock-coated hero with an
affable manner and a sudden g.un.


1
m
999.
m
n
N
Be entertained by
the world’s great artists.
The fables of the Arabian Nights’ Entertainments
were not more marvellous than the genius of Mr.
Edison in imprisoning the voices of the world s
greatest artists for you to release in your own home
at will on
The NEW EDISON
This marvellous instrument actually re-creates the voice of the
artist, or the tone of instrument with the truth and feeling
of the original.
More than 30 Opera Stars have sung in direct compari-
son with the New Edison and proved before audiences of over
2,000,000 people that no difference could be detected.
Write immediately for literature telling all about this wonderful
musical instrument. Post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
4|6
EACH
BRITISH-MADE
rCcrlumbia^
Records
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
4|6
EACH.
SOME SPLENDID BRITISH-MADE
“COLUMBIA” RECORDS
From Supplement No. 46 —Now on Sale.
12-inch Purple Label, Single-sided, 8/6 each.
7188
( Nftiro di Fiiraro (Marriage of Figaro) ; “Deh vieni non tardar” (Oh, whytso lon S
| delaying?), (Mozart). In Italian, with Orchestra. .. Maria Barrientos, Soprano
7165
( Un hallo in Maschera; “Eri tw che macchlavi” (Thou didst sully
( pure) (Verdi). In Italian v
that spirit
Stracciari
Toscha Seidel, violin
7231—“C&price Viennois” (Kreisler), with Piano
7230
Don Giovanni:
‘Non mi dir (Mozart). In Italian, with Orchestra.
Bisa Stralia, soprano
“Drink to Me Only with Thine Eyes” (Ben Jonson) ..%.. Den Davies, tenor
12-inch Light Blue Label, Double-sided, 8/6 each.
JL..13J9
rAida: “Celeste Aida” (Verdi)
Otello. “Thou Avaunt Thee” (Verdi)
Prank Mullings.itenor
Prank Mullings, tenor
Li. 1353
Song of the Bow (Aylward)
The Windmill (Nelson)
Norman Allin, bass
Norman Allin, bass
L.. 1348
Because of You (Tosti),
The English Rose, from
with Violin Obligato by Albert Sammons.
“Merrie England/’ with String Quartette.
Hubert Eisdell, tenor
09EVT
( Beethoven Qu.rt.tt. 1„ F. (Op. 18, Fo. 1): (1)
Xi.l3-12
[ Fictnres from an Exhibition (Moussourßsky-Wood). Part 3 (a) Dispute
J Between Two Children; (b) Ballet of Chickens. Part 4—At the Gate of
L Kieff • Sir Henry J. Wood and Orchestra
12-inch Dark Blue Label, Double-sided, 6/6 each.
7M
jl.es deux Pigeons (Messager). (3)
792
Danse “Samson and Delilah” orchestra
Bide of the Valkyries (Wagner) Chicago Symphony Orchestra
793
Carmen: “Flower Sons:” (Bizet) •• •
Elly Mavourneen (“Elly of Killarney) (Benedict) ....
Hughes Macklin, tenor
Hughes Macklin, tenor
704
{ Oro Pro Nobis (Pray for us) (Piccolomini) .... Carrie Herwin and Quartette
(Love’s Old Sweet Song (Molloy) Carrie Herwin and Quartette
Full Lists and Catalogues are obtainable at most high-class Music Stores, or
from the undermentioned firms: —
SYDNEY N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
: •
I
THE “RUWOLT” CAST STEEL STANDARD ROCKCRUSHER.
TYPE RA, SIZE 16in. x 9£in.
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
THE RUWOLT
M
STANDARD
ROCKCRUSHER.
Made in Two Sizes.
THE LIGHTEST, STRONGEST AND
MOST EFFICIENT ROCKCRUSHER
ON THE MARKET.
ALL the Essential Parts, including the
MAIN FRAME, PITMAN and SWING-
ING JAWHOLDER are made from the
finest-quality Toughened CAST STEEL.
The JAWS are made from our high-grade
MANGANESE STEEL.
Hundreds of these Jaws in use.
INSPECTION INVITED; SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO THE MANUFACTURERS:
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London, as Manufacturers for Steel Castings.
5


Can’t Beat Cocoanut
Oil for Hair Wash.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Callouses.
Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
'SO**!
This is a wonderfully easy,
quick and pleasant way of
freeing your feet of corns
and callouses. Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-Ice right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes.
The corp or callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
is for men and women who appreciate neat,
fashionable, attractive footwear and foot
comfort also. With Frozol-Ice vou enjoy
both. There sno pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-Ice, nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding, healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice, and never let your corns
ache again. You’ll *be delighted with it
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Every
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists, High-class
Stores, etc.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousand of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder or
compressed tablets —never liquid or milk—
and is not a laxative. Any first-class chemist
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Cyril Mackay, who has had a bad time for
months past owing to a nervous breakdown,
is to have a benefit matinge at Sydney
Palace next Tuesday (14th). The Taits
are providing the theatre, and the pro-
gramme is to comprise choice slices from
every show now in Sydney. Cyril himself
will flicker briefly as the hero of “The Man
from Snowy River” film.
Charles Ivenningham is now convalescing
at Urangan, the watering-place of Mary-
borough (Q.). He has just finished six
months in hospital as a sequel to three
touch-and-go abdominal operations. Worst
luck of all, his hearing has gone, and he
can no longer conduct his classes at Mary-
borough, or play the organ for the Anglicans
there. As for teaching: singing, it became a
torture to him. “I did not hear what lor
my pupils were playing or singing, but some-
thing different and awful.” Still, he writes
cheerfully that he can still compose, says
he has written a lot, both in hospital and
whilst convalescent, which he intends to
bring south in a few w’eeks. And : “There
are a few parts which I might be able to
play decently even yet. Not necessarily
leading juvenile, but others.”
“THE BLIND-
NESS OF
VIRTUE," AT
SYDNEY
PALACE.
Percy Rhodes as
Rev. Harry
Pemberton.
“S.S.”: The ancient Jimmy Cathcart
used to claim that he had played to the
smallest audience that had ever witnessed
a full dramatic performance in Australia.
It was a first night in Sale (Vic.), and the
management went on with the drama in the
absence of anything deserving of the name of
an audience, because the Show crowd would
be in town the next day, and he could not
afford to close up. The performance had
reached the third act, the curtain had gone
up, and Cathcart, as the good old man, was
remonstrating with the villain for murdering
his cousin, when a head was thrust in at
the door at the end of the hall, and a shrill
youthful voice cried: “Hey, mister, the cop-
per has arrested yer audience!” Next day
the audience was committed for bigamy.
T. D. Erndee”: Johnny Wallace, just on
the fourscore, hopped nimbly into the Mos-
Sydney) Society’s “Tambour Major,”
Offenbach s melodious opera bouffe which
charmed the last generation. Family affliction
* ce Pf away a performer at the last moment,
and Johnny took his own orjjginal part.
Bambini, without a rehearsal. He was as full
of comedy, quaint and whimsical, as ever.
The one-time producer of the Royal Comics
has not lost his cunning, and the opera was
delightful to old-timers. Clown, pantaloon
and comedy (musical and low) —all were
much alike to Johnny Wallace, who began
the business at the age of 10. He was one
of the show with which Emily Soldene con-
quered Australia, and, like myself, he regards
Nellie Stewart as the best comic-opera lead-
ing lady Australia has seen.
“Norbell”: C. R. Stanford, whose Tom
Grouthead in “The Boss. Cockie” is the
backbone of that cheerful outbreak, and who
is deserving of a
special cheer for
his very modest
display of chin-
whisker, is one of
the very few stage-
villains who have
been attacked from
the body of the
house by a parti-
san of the wronged
heroine. It was at
Bendigo 20 years
ago. Stanford was
busy murdering
Helen Fergus with
a carving-knife and
much fervor (Bill
Anderson paid him
to do it), when a
verdant patron in
the stalls was so
carried away by
the realism of it
that he ran down
the aisle, vaulted
over the orchestra'
and tackled the
ruffian. The latter
had his back turned
at the moment, and
this unrehearsed
onslaught rather
upset him; but
dropping his lethal
weapon he grabbed
h i s antagonist,
“The Blindness of
Virtue,” at Sydney
Palace.
Effie the innocent
(Dorothy Manville)
visits the bedroom
of Archie
(Frank Freeman ).
bustled him off L., and calmly went on
murdering the lady, who had been patiently
waiting for him R.C.
“Henry Clay” in reply:—
Lowell Thomas (B. 26/8/’2O) disputes four of my
statements (B. 22/4/’2O). (1) He claims that,
before I drew attention to the fact, he was aware
of his habit of speaking through his nose. Accord-
ingly I disclaim the discovery. Speaking through
one’s nose, anyhow, is a much more laudable physio-
logical feat than seeing with only one eye. (2) I
do not question his right to the pictures he exhibits
so much as his right to misrepresent them. (3) He
states that in his notes for his Australian tour he
mentions the Light Horse some 30 or more times.
1 never doubted for one minute that he would! (i)
He states that he lectures not for monetary gain,
but that he has come here (under the benevolent
direction of J. C. Williamson, Ltd.) purely for the
love of telling us what brave fellows we are, and
thereby welding together the scattered English-
speaking peoples. That story of the drunken Aussies
in Gaza won’t help his welding operations.
Not one word did he write of the capture of
Damascus, with which Allenby tried so hard to credit
the misguided Emir Feisal. When Allenby circu-
lated the infprmation that Feisal had taken the city
(none of Lowell’s many photographers seems to
have taken it), General Chauvel, as the G. 0.0.
Desert Mounted Corps, wrote a protest to the
C.-in-C., and was politely told to mind his own
business. Undaunted, Chauvel once more protested
on behalf of the 3rd Light Horse Brigade, and this
time signed himself “G.0.C., A.1.F.” He was more
successful then, and Allenby corrected the earlier
report. As Lowell evidently did his campaigning at
Allenby’s H.Q., it was natural for him to fall into
this error. I have no doubt that the Australian
edition of his notes will contain the correct version.
And General Chetwode thought the Anzacs wese
mentioned too often! It is not surprising to find
such an opinion coming from Allenby’s Chief of
Staff. For some mysterious reason the C.-in-C.
withheld all credit from the Light Horse; but
when he had the opportunity of sending them to
France, to reinforce the sadly-depleted infantry, he
packed off the Yeomanry instead.
Lowell has a lot of time for Lawrence, the Oxford
archaeologist, who was Feisal’s right-hand man in
the fruitless Arab campaign. Did he ever persuade
Feisal’s rabble to fight a battle? No, he did not!
His hold over Feisal, which kept the Hedjhaz on
our side, was obtained with the help of millions of
British sovereigns which the Arabs spent lavishly in
Damascus, whilst our troopers were doing their
best with the suspicious paper currency of Egypt. I
met Lawrence in a London bookshop last year, and
asked him if he was pleased to get back to his
antiquities again. He replied prophetically that the
real trouble was about to begin in Syria. He was
right, for, as it turned out, his efforts in Arabia
almost wrecked the Entente.
The real Palestine campaign began where Lowell’s
pictures leave off.
Lowell ends his letter with a cheap gibe at me;
but I can truly say that had he or one of his many
photographers taken even a lantern-slide in half the
places my old horse carried me, he’d be able to
give his audience a truer picture of Allenby in
Palestine.
“Bunder”: When opposition was fierce
and the Taits were struggling to get dates,
they picked up “The Luck of the Navy.”
Having no use for it, they sublet to Allan
Wilkie, who was then setting out for Maori-
land. It proved a sure card, and the actor-
manager intended opening with it in Mel-
bourne. On the return of the company from
M.L., however, the Taits found that they
could do with it themselves; and Wilkie is
left lamenting.
“Fax”: Allan Wilkie’s plan of staging
“Macbeth” in an unelaborate style, with only
one interval of eight minutes, ought to appeal
to all people who want their Shakspeare
served “legitimately.” Besides, “Macbeth”
at popular prices can’t afford to try to be a
great spectacular play, and if it did it would
only bore the multitude with its intervals
whilst vexing Shakspearean fanatics with
its “cuts.” It is hard to say. how little
scenery is needed to make classic drama
entertaining on stage or platform. Alex-
ander Watson’s public was enthusiastic over
a one-man rendering of “Macbeth” or
“Twelfth Night,’’ and the Oscar Asche per-
formance of “Juliufc Caesar,” without pic-
torial fixings, kept a Town Hall audience
thinking for a couple of hours.
“To Po”: A picture-show co. is touring
north-eastern Victoria “featuring” the
Kelly gang. It would be a fair thing for
the Government to call the showmen off that
district. Decent relatives of the Kellys are
scattered about, and the old mother still
lives.
“Nordie” : “Whitehall” blames the wrong
charmer (B. 2/9/’2O). It was not Mrs.
Brown Potter but Mrs. Langtry who put the
ice down King Edward’s back. His retort
was very effective. Lady Nevill’s Memoirs:
“He arose, rang a bell, and ordered in a
stern voice, ‘Mrs. Langtry’s carriage.’ Then
he bowed stiffly to the Jersey Lily and re-
sumed conversation with the remaining mem-
bers of the gay party.”'
“Hamfat”: “Old Pot” (B. 2/9/’2O) in
his remarks about actresses with husbands
who thought they were actors might have
included Maud Jeffries, who married one of
the wool-growing Osbornes. That cheerful
young squatter essayed parts in Maud’s
plays, but he never rose above the level of
being an artistic embarrassment to the lady.
Clarence Brune, by the way, was ambitious.
Undiscouraged by his frosty season at the
Criterion, he began the formation of a
Shakspearean company which was to open
at Newcastle and then leave for Maoriland.
But before Newcastle could feast its eyes
on Clarence Brune as Hamlet, his financier
thought better of it.
“0.K.”: Young Lester plays the name
part in the J.C.VV. production of “The Boy” ;
but, though highly praised, I don’t think he
is as convincingly juvenile as Dion Bouci-
cault was when he took the same character
in “The Magistrate” 35 years ago. Little
Boucicault looked younger than his supposed
years, yet older than his pretty sister Nina
did as Dulcie in “Vice Versa.” Nina was
the sweetest little stage girl of, .say, 13 who
ever tossed her head. At that time she was
still in her teens, and when she was more
than twice as old she was chosen to play
Peter Pan. From an American point of view
Nina was a “baby doll” at 40.
“Hamfat”: An actress appearing at the
Majestic, Newtown. (N.S.W.), bears the
names of two historic theatrical families and
has an hereditary right to them. Miss
Betterton Glover (she really is a missus with
a large family) is the daughter of two Aus-
tralian stage people well known in their day;
but her own career has been handicapped by
lack of inches. The managers prefer tall
actresses and she happens to be short. Once,
however, she made a splash. A company
formed in Wellington (M.L.) from the wrecks
of several others secured her as leading
lady, and the manager, who was also a press-
man, boomed the show lavishly in papers to
which he had the entree. Before the
“specially engageid English emotional actress”
descended on Wellington, letters containing
her impressions of the various places she
touched at on the way out appeared in the
press, and the interest excited among Well-
ingtonians was such that they crowded to see
her. The show was an amazing success, and
amongst other things Ted Geach (then the
Willoughby-Geach Co.) took a trip down
from the North to have a look at the new
star, and Pete Hughes set the wires to Syd-
ney with suggestions of an engagement. But
before anything could come of it, matrimony
intervened, and the celebrated English actress
retired into private life.
VERBRUGGHEN UNDER THE X-RAY.
“Old Pot”: Two fights on the stage, not
mimic affairs, but real scraps between the
principals (B. 2/9/’2O), occurred in Sydney
in the ’eighties—one in the New Opera
House, King-street; the other in the Cri-
terion Theatre. The weapons in one case were
rapiers and in the other fists. The pair who
made the rapier play were members of the
Anglo-Italian grand opera co. that sang under
the management of Martin Simonsen. Two
of the Macaronis had a few words about a
lady, and before one could say “Crayfeesh!”
they had pulled out their property swords
and were at it. The Italians showed some
pretty play before the duel was stopped
without any damage being done. Later the
combatants kissed and made friends. The
*bther battle took place between the acts on
the Criterion stage and was also about a
lady, though in this case there was no jeal-
ousy. The pugilists were Philip Beck and
Cecil Ward, and it was during the run of
“Sophia,” in which Ward made his Austra-
lian d6but. Pattie Browne was offended by
some too-realistic business which Ward had
introduced, and after the act she told Beck
about it. He at once rolled into Ward, and
was giving him a pretty bad time when they
were separated.
“G.A.E.”: The only people in this world
who put an industry on a good footing are
those who make it pay, which Wilfred Lucas
and Co. did not do. “Beer H.” (B. 26/8/’2O)
is on the wrong track altogether when he
says, “Australia owes Lucas nothing.” A
great deal of Australian capital was melted
—chiefly in big salaries to the American
bunch, Lucas and wife drawing £l5O from
shore to shore. The Australian actor got
nothing. The equipment that “Beer H.”
boasts of consisted really of an up-to-date
camera; but little Arthur Higgins in “The
Sentimental Bloke” and other films shows
better photography with his old PathA Long-
ford, so far, seems to be the only one who
has given much practical encouragement to
the industry; he has produced films at a
profit, and thereby made the business look
healthy. Lucas, apart from wearing an
extraordinary get-up and shouting through
a megaphone, has left behind a feeling of
discouragement among people who would like
to invest in the film industry.
“0.K.”: On the re-appearance of Johnny
Wallace in his old character of Bambini in
“Tambour Major,” it is mentioned that he
first played the part in Australia 39 years
ago. But he was a popular identity in a
popular opera much longer than 39 years
ago. He figured as one of the two gendarmes
in a French opera which had a London vogue
so far back that W. S. Gilbert got from it
a suggestion for the policemen’s chorus in
“The Pirates of Penzance,” and “The
Pirates” is 40 years old. I can still hear
Wallace and the other gendarme singing this
or something like it:—
Sometimes our duty's extra-mural,
Then the little butterflies we chase;
We take delight in all*things rural,
In meeting Nature face to face;
But when we meet a poor old woman,
Or a child that does no harm,
We run ’em in, etc.
A BOOM IN TALLOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Freak actors of all sorts have been bought up by
the pictures at fancy prices. A very fat actor is more
fortunate than a talented artist to-day.” —Normal
actor’s complaint from the U.S.A.
In fair Los Angeles to-day
The men who bulge abnormally
Can all command much higher pay
Than those who grow just formally.
They urge you, if you're very fat,
To show your great obesity,
For there is no denying that
With thirty stone beneath your hat
You are a film necessity.
Each firm must have a special man
Of overflowing matter, one
Who’ll raise a laugh. The others plan
Each how to get a fatter one.
Pros, sought fat parts in speaking plays,
Each actor used to hallow his,
But now the picture business pays
Terrific rates for fat, which craze
Explains the price that tallow is.
If you should need a pro. to-day,
With mighty girth abdominal,
You’d find that you would have to pay
A salary phenomenal.
In luxury in some smart flat
The fattest actor revels now,
And so our pros, who tend to fat,
That they may pull down screws like that,
Are cramming like the devil now!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


99
&
ft
CJ'
! 7*
Kk
m
i
• v -
-\\
m
VA
I
0
si
fl
■.
'■■■;
V
i
8
t - : - ••••-
46N9M
I
-
i
'■/
■.{£''■ A'
a
»p
• •, ••■
*
o*o*
*
J
//^
s
a.
0
*3
&
/
ERANG'
OO
/
y
THERE
AND
BACK
TYRES


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
iWHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ?
fds
LEWIS feWriITTY MAKERS
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOB INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANJEMIA, BTC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating:.
(Registered.)
Am.
SISTERE
A.B
A.B
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINJD & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
A good few punters would have carried
sad hearts to Caulfield last Saturday had they known
that Coq d’Or was already scratched for Melbourne
Cup. They had backed the imported horse in doubles
on the well-grounded assumption that he was a
good one if they could get him fit. But it was
almost inevitable that they would fail to get him
fit, for the book showed that two years had elapsed
since Coq d’Or ran in public, and then he ran
only twice (unplaced) after a lapse of two years
since his previous one appearance in Australia. To
expect Bradfield to win another big event for Clarke
and Robinson with another unsound English nag—
and such a very unsound one as Coq d’Or —was
carrying optimism almost to the point of absurdity.
During last week the animal went lame again as of
old, and was scratched on Saturday morning.
Saturday at Caulfield was the day when the first
statements, or hints, of form for the next two
months are likely to be uttered. Last year the hints
were very strong. The first and Second in the
Heatherlie Handicap were subsequent winners of the
Caulfield Cup and the Newmarket, whilst the winner
and third horse in the Memsie Stakes were pre-
sently the winner of Melbourne Cup and runner-up
in the Caulfield. This year the field for the Heather-
lie must have looked poor in the penetrating eye
of Isaac Moses, seeing that he wouldn’t lay more
than 7 to 4 against top-weight Tangalooma at the
' start, and had Toison d’Or down to 3 to 1, although
‘he also' was carrying more than his Cup weight.
Both horses ran moderately, the favorite being handi-
capped by a very bad get-away. Scottish Knight,
a four-year-old son of Wallace owned by the patient
Baillieus, seemed to win fairly easily, and the fact
that the chestnut was carrying 81b. more than his
minimum, for the sake of young Duncan’s services,
suggested that he was a stable fancy. The improv-
ing Queen Comedy (Bst. 101 b.) put in a run at
the finish which brought her within half a length
of the winner, and the two of them made the Cup
prospects of their pursuers look pretty blue. Which
doesn’t necessarily mean that their own prospects
are truly rosy.
Results of the two latest jumping races at Caul-
field should be a warning to the public that the top-
notchers have done their winter dash, and are now
staling off. At a time when owners of the more
expensive animals want all the chances they can get
at the two principal Melbourne courses it would be a
fair thing to leave jumping events out of the bill.
Eurythmic, previously declared to be a
good thing for Caulfield Cup, justified his position
in the market by beating Ethiopian, Eusebius, Chal
and other good performers in the nine-furlong w.f.a.
Memsie Stakes at Caulfield on Saturday. Carrying
a penalty of 71b., which made his weight 9st. 71b.,
he came from behind and ran past his field brilli-
antly in the straight, and at the finish there were
three lengths between the four-year-old and Ban-
durria, with the three-year-old Reciprocity a good
third. The merit of the performance was enhanced
by the fact that Eurythmic was not thought for-
ward enough to win, and as ipuch as 50 to 1 was
laid against him. He ran the nine furlongs in
lmin. 55i sec., which •> good time for Caulfield,
and his speed is now beyond dispute ; but the ques-
tion is whether the shapely chestnut can go another
three furlongs in first-class company. Eurythmic is by
imported Eudorus, a brilliant l|-miler whose offspring
thusfar have not liked a distance. Eusebius, whom he
defeated on Saturday (albeit Eusebius was also un-
backed), has Bst. 131 b. for the Caulfield and Euryth-
mic Bst. 91b. Eusebius won Guineas, Derby and Leger in
Victoria, and he also was better than Mistico in a
mile-and-a-half w.f.a event. Moreover, this son of
Eudorus and Lager gave 121 b. and a fair beating to
Chrysolaus at Flemington last March. The grey,
excitable Britisher may not have been at his best
when Eusebius beat him, but the horse from Sydney
was heavily backed. It may be said for the much-
fancied Westralian champion that he has been more
consistently good than his half-brother, but, like his
half-brother, he has yet to prove his ability to beat
stayers of proved quality over a distance.
* * * *
This .time last year Toison d’Or won a
race at Caulfield, carrying the minimum, and on
the strength of that first win (wherewith the im-
ported horse broke his duck) Eric Connelly took him
to Sydney to capture the Metropolitan. Toison d'Or
ran like a rotter at Randwick, and his owner-trainer
finally abandoned all idea of making a coup with
the disappointing animal. H. A. Armytage bought
him, and the other Saturday the six-year-old (who
hadn’t run many races in all) scored his second win,
beating Clan Fingon in a welter race at Williams-
town. It was a poor field of unready gees that the
the two Cup candidates finished ahead of, and the
performance of Toison d’Or proved nothing except
that he is at least as good as he was this time last
year, and that Clan Fingon couldn’t give him 131 b.
over a mile. Both horses —-second-raters on paper—
are talked of as possible Cup winners. But
what has either of them done thusfar to give him
more than a very outside chance among first-class
handicap horses? Some of the talk about Clan
Fingon, trained for L. K. S. Mackinnon by one of
the Foulshams, sounds as though it was intended
to distract attention from Strathredole, in the same
ownership, and trained by another Foulsham.
Drumore, in the same interest as Toison d’Or, is
another candidate with a possibly false reputation
as a Cup horse. The rumor about him is carried
over from last season, when he went amiss before he
had done anything to crow about. But Drumore, all
things considered, is better worth backing at. present
than Clan Fingon, of the same Wallace breed and
a year younger. Or, rather, he would be better
worth backing if his soundness were assured.
* * * *
If there is a stayer among this season’s
crop of three-year-olds, both the A.J.C. and V.R.C.
Derbies should be his. But the bunch the Derby-
winner is to come from are strongly suspected of
being an ordinary lot. Assuming that Strathredole is
as good as recent betting on the Melbourne Cup
implies, there is nothing better in training at Rand-
wick. Of the N.S.W.' division Tressady Queen, Kil-
kenny Boy, Erasmus and Speciality, with, maybe,
Wirraway, are the most likely.
Meanwhile the Chelmsford Stakes on Saturday, and
the Rosehill Guineas a week later are expected to
throw a certain amount of light on the problem.
Though the Chelmsford is only nine furlongs, is
run under a queer system of weighting by allow-
ances and penalties, and is usually won by a sea-
soned horse, it has a habit of providing a fair line
to the big event. The starters this year will appa-
rently include the Maoriland swallow-catcher Gloam-
ing. If he feels as well on Saturday as he did one
morning last week, it will be a quick trip. Carry-
ing about Bst., he ran seven furlongs on the middle-
grass track in lmin. 25|sec., thus smashing all pre-
vious working-gallop records.
* * * *
At the break-up of the Elderslie stud in
Maoriland, 1000 of the Sam Hordern guineas went
for Peroration, a yearling colt by Kilbroney from
Flowery Speech. But so far the expensive, chunky-
loolcing animal hasn’t earned a feed. On Saturday
at Moorefield he was given a start in a more than
moderate field. Though well-backed, he again ran
nowhere.
At Adelaide Tatt.’s meeting at Morphett-
ville on Saturday the smallness of the divs. paid
was remarkable for that State —the biggest, for a
pound, was £8 18s. In the Juvenile Handicap
Popinjay added to his winning-list with Pratique out
of Yellow Flag. Tatt.’s Handicap went to Intoler-
ance; and the Spring Handicap (in divisions), which
was expected to be extremely interesting as Ilesso
and Lord Setay were entered, was lifted by a run-
away in Pistol Prince and Sonhardric. Seal King
was hopelessly left.
* * * *
At Albion Park (Q.) on Saturday only
one first favorite clicked—Huinnos by Hymettus.
The Plate, which appeared to belong to Demieranthis
four furlongs from the finish, resolved itself into
a duel between Soldier’s March and Banzhead, who
deadheated. The Purse, which the unlucky Pieassa
just lost, was appropriated by Broken Spear.
* *
Ercanil’s sister Neeowee (Linacre—Owee-
nee) ran a good second to Teremarau by Charle-
magne at Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday in the
Three-year-okl Handicap. A gelding by the same
horse ran third. The winner has engagements in
both Derbies.
The allegation that Amythas, the Maori-
land crack, will go to Melbourne with the Cup in
view is somewhat substantiated by the fact that the
Cup is the only handicap Amythas is entered for
this side of the water. The handicapper prepared
a burden of 9st. 51b. in readiness for the trusty
gelding, who scored 12 wins and one second out
Of 16 starts as a three-year-old. Two of his three
failures were in the only sprint races he started for;
so Amythas, on paper, has none of the impetuosity
of Biplane, Desert Gold or Gloaming.
Before a 10,000 crowd last Saturday Bal-
main (who, by defeating W. Suburbs on the previous
Wednesday, had landed the League first-grade pre-
miership) licked Newtown in the first round of the
City Cup Competitions. Scores: 9 points (3 tries)
to 6 points (2 tries). The Dockers were without
Jimmy Craig, “Pony” Halloway and Conoghan.
Newtown opened with a try by the erstwhile-junior
Dudley Seddpn. Taking advantage of a weak transfer
by Fraser to Robinson, Seddon snapped up and set
sail for the Dockers’ chalk-line, which he crossed
carrying the opposition custodian on his back. Sed-
don is under suspicion of having most of the assets
required in the make-up of a champion. Balmain
got its greatest shaking-up to date. The Blue for-
wards were quite as successful in the scrums as the
premiers’ six, whilst the backs, with Johnstone and
Seddon always prominent, played splendidly. Half-
way through the first half, Fraser retired hurt (hav-
ing been downed heavily by Seddon), and Latta
w r as pulled out of the pack. ’Mains now livened
up, and by fine combined play, in which Robinson,
Latta and" Love participated, evened up the scones.
On changing ends the Dockers bogged in spiritedly,
and Newtown ill-advisedly fell back on rough-house
tactics. The Dockers, per medium of Ryan and
Denham, increased their total to 9 points, to which
the Blues could only respond with a try. Inci-
dentally the match should have been a draw. In
negotiating ’Main’s second try (so-called), Ryan glar-
ingly “knocked on” five yards from goal before two
other players handled the leather, and sent Denham
over for the sgpre. The best of the Black-and-Gold,
brigade were the Robinson Bros., “Junker” and
George, with young Love ably supporting. Latta
shone out from a solid-working pack of forwards
for the Blues. Johnstone and Seddon, with Brown,
were the pick of the backs, whilst Dick Townsend,
Anderson arid Deeble worked hard and continuously.
The other matches resulted in Norths castigating
Glebe by 33 points to eight, while Souths slaughtered
’Varsity by 64 to 10, and East’s remnants prevailed
over Annandale, the wooden-spooners, by 23 points
to nil. Wests had the bye. Balmain’s share of
the proceeds of their match with Newtown is to be
handed to veteran “Pony” Halloway, who retires
from active service with the Dockers at the close
of this season.
Balmain-won 11, lost one and drew one. This is
’Main’s fifth win in the last six seasons: South
Sydney (1918) has alone been able to stop their
rush since 1915. Yet before that the premiers’
previous best was to be runner-up to Souths in 1909.
# # * #
In the final of the Sydney Union Rugby
competition on Saturday Glebe-Balinain downed
Manly by one point, after a wild scramble, in which
no fewer than 43 points were scored. As in the
game with Easts, Watson made good use of his for-
wards. Incidentally, his back division did their
share, and Buchanan frequently stole a march round
the blind side of the enemy. In the first half Manly
led 13-8, and after the .cigarette interlude they got
together to such purpose that they nearly pushed
the visitors back into the harbor. Then their con-
dition gave out, and the visitors prevailed. N. Smith
and Dale are to be commended as genuine grafters,
and Brown was sound if at times flash. For Easts
Ritchie and Walters backed up well, and with Wat-
son and Friend can be given credit for the win.
* * * *
Wellington’s defeat of Auckland and Tara-
naki leaves the possession of the Ranfurly Shield still
on the sideboard of the Windy City. The match
against the big men from Taranaki was vigorous,
and although Wellington won by 16 —5, it was only
after a bitter struggle. The kicking of E. Roberts
(Wellington) was the star effort of the day ; he landed
three goals. Since the Shield was launched in 1902
Auckland has won it in 10 seasons, Wellington in
three and Taranaki once. It was stowed away while
the youth of M.L. was doing so splendidly against
the Huns.
Rugby is still the pastime of Maoriland.
When the “All Blacks” (just returned from Australia)
played Wellington the other day, the House of Reps, cut
out talk and adjourned in spite of the protest of Labor-
leader Harry Holland. The tussle was a great
triumph for the “All Blacks,” who rattled up 38
against Wellington’s penalty goal by M. Nicholls.
* * * *
In view of the fact that none of Mel-
bourne League games mattered last week—savs for
the possibility of ’Roy displacing Richmond as
leaders —the form shown was surprisingly good.
’Roy, meeting Saints, had to pile up about 100
points to 30 to get there: Richmond only needed to
just win. In the result
’Roy scored 149 to Saints’
69, while the Tigers col-
lected 104 to Essendon’s
41, which was the better
average of the two. Con-
sequently Richmond, ’Roy,
Carlton and ’Wood, in
that order, will fight out
the finish. The forwapls
were well on the screen;
Bayliss (Richmond) get-
ting 6 goals, Rankin (Gee-
long) 5 and Merrick
(’Roy) B—s8 —5 of which
were snared in the last
eight minutes of play.
Rankin, by the way, is
third on the goal-kicking
list —48, against Mer-
rick’s 54, and Bayliss’s 62
—yet his team has won
only five of the 16 games
played. The two/ chief
matches yielded £935 ;
so, given good weather,
the finals should about
burst , the League’s pockets.
“SNOWY” WILSON
( Collingwood).
“Plum” Warner, who will be 47 next
month, retired from first-class cricket last week
in a riot of glory. His team, Middlesex, downed
Surrey and won the county championship (largely
owing to his sound judgment in declaring when he
did) ; he “came off” himself, and the Times devoted
a leading article to him. Warner is a type which
only England produces. From his public-school days
onwards the whole of his interests and all his
claims to fame have centred upon a game—in his
case, cricket. The Graces (and particularly W. G.)
and C. B. Fry are other cases in point.- Such men
play cricket all the summer, and write books about
it, or compile memoirs, or delve into the statistics
of the game all the winter. They have solved the
problem of perpetual boyishness.
* * * *
Mrs. Trig-lone who as Miss Ducat, of N.
S. Wales, has done some astonishing things with golf-
sticks, put up what must be close to a world’s record
on Saturday. She was playing against Mrs. Barton,
the N. S. Wales woman champion, in the Manly
Associates’ Championship, -and with five holes
to go was four down. She won the next four
(beating the Colonel in two. of them and equalling
him in the others), halved another hole, and won
the 20th and the championship.
Sydney ’Varsity’s footballers had a great
tussle with Victoria Col-
lege in the opening match
at Wellington (M.L.) and
won by 20 points to 18.
It was a variation in
“placing” the team. Syd-
ney played four three-
quarters and two half-
backs, while Victoria Col-
lege spared one from the
backs and played a wing-
forward. The latter was
a thorn to Sydney in the
early stages; but the dash
of the visiting three-
quarters overcame in the
end. Farquhar especially
was electrical, and Bcored
two out of six tries, only
one of which was con-
verted. Although Victoria
College crossed the line
only three times, the great
kicking of R. Scott (four
goals) almost pulled the
game through.
J. TREDREA, the
S. Australian inter-
state player.
Jimmy Hill has filled out into a hefty
lightweight since his last appearance at Sydney
Stadium. On Saturday night, when he met God-
frey, he weighed out at 9st. 51b., or 21b. more than
the k.o. specialist. Popular opinion held that God-
frey would have to out his man to win; and in
the sixth round he nearly did it. Not by the agency
of his famous right, but with a left swing which
barely grazed Hill’s jaw. The recipient went down
and knelt shaking his head to clear his wits till the
call of nine. Then he projected himself at Godfrey
and fought to the finish of the round like a tiger.
Six rounds later the pride of Auburn had the ex-
featherweight going once more. A well-judged right
hook began it, and for 20 seconds thereafter God-
frey placed pretty well every blow in his repertory
on Hill’s arms in a vain effort to reach the vulner-
able spots behind them. The defensive work of the
returned exile was great. During the last half of
the journey the left side of Hill’s countenance pre-
sented a lugubrious appearance as a result of the'
work of Godfrey’s busy right, and his near eye
threatened several times to go out of action alto-
gether. Godfrey was unmarked to the finish. The
referee gave it a draw, anil the big crowd
expressed no serious objections. Hill’s wonderful eva-
sive work, added to his pluck and recuperative
powers, had won their esteem. Most of the ring-
sider's held, however, that Godfrey had won by a
comfortable margin.
* * * *
Jack Dempsey made short work of the
26-year-old German-American light-heavyweight,
Hilly Miske, on Monday, the end coming" in the
third round.
* * * *
Ernest Barry, peeved at a little misun-
derstanding over the payment of the stake-money,
has refused to take it at all in Australia. (Felton,
in the first bitterness of defeat, issued an injunction
against the cash being disbursed at all; and though
he withdrew the embargo later, the official or dinkum
oil on the subject failed to reach the stake-holder
before Barry called for the money.) There may be
method in the Englishman’s annoyance. He isn't
allowed to bear his £lOOO away in the form of
bullion, and by insisting on drawing it in London
he will evade the expense and trouble of the ex-
change problem.
Harold Parsons, on an 8-h.p. Indian, was
the- big attraction of the N.S.W. Motor-cycle Club’s
turnout at Vic. Park (Sydney) on Saturday. The
nuggety Vic. champion started five times (two
heats and finals and in the N.S.W. Championship)
and only once missed a place. Altogether he whirled
round 45 laps (60 miles 5 furlongs) ; but his great
effort was in the 10-lap N.S.W. Championship. From
a moving start he took the. lead after 50 yards,
and remained there to win by over a lap from
Tommy Benstead and Bill Thomas (Newcastle), with
the rest nowhere. He cut out the 16 miles 7 fur-
longs in 16min. 45sec., reaching as much as 80m.p.h.
on the straight stretches of the oblong track. In
the 10-lap handicap, Spencer White (85sec.) man-
aged to elude the visitor: the latter took llmin.
13 l-ssec. to do the lljmiles in his heat, and llmin.
21sec. in the final.
* * * *
Luft, the Melbourne man, could make no
show against Hooper for the amateur billiard cham-
pionship of Australasia. Hooper promises to hold
the title for as long as he wants it. His play in
the Melbourne match was never sensational, nor
ever weak. On the last day he made 19 breaks rang-
ing from 30 to 85, and his average for the whole
game of 3000 points was 16 per innings.
Of 31 starters in N. S. Wales 10-mile
track championship at Kensington (Sydney) on Satur-
day only 16 finished. The pace was slow in the
early stages, and at two miles the much-improved
H. L. Sheaves (South Sydney) and five-miles cham-
pion H. Hayden (Botany) started out to smash up
the field. As the miles were reeled off, the leaders
widened the gap, and in a great finish Sheaves won
in 56min. 59sec. —15sec. ahead of Hayden. H.
Grandemange was 67sec. away third, with those pro-
mising youths J. Bell and W. Porter next. V.
Collins (Q.) and B. V. Maher (Vic.) were in the
line-up, but the sandy going found them out. For
the teams championship, Botany (34 points) and
South Sydney (52 points)' were the only clubs to
finish. Eight started for the seven miles walking
title. In this event after five miles, W. Pitt streaked
away to win with 4min. ssec. to spare in 57min.
38see. A. C. Kitchen and J. T. O’Rourke were in
the places. Pitt, who has a splendid, even heel-and-
toe action, has now won State championships in
Victoria, Queensland and N. S. Wales since he
dropped into the Commonwealth from Birmingham.
* * » *
The Americans easily- topped the score at
the Olympic Games with 210 points. It was a
matter chiefly of organisation, scientific training and
an army of competitors. Finland (104) and Sweden
(95) came next.
THE PROBLEM OF STOPPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The art of flying is in a large measure the master-
ing of the problem of getting back to earth.”— Vic.
airmail.
To scoot about up in the air
Is quite a minor matter;
There are no stumps or fences there
Your little plans to scatter;
There’s nothing harder than a cloud
Aloft you can collide with.
But when you start for earth a crowd
Of dire adversities beset the lives of those you ride
with.
She digs her nose into the dirt,
And points her tail to Heaven,
And maybe you’re severely hurt —
Perhaps you “throw a seven.”
She ploughs her muzzle in the loam,
You see a cloud of sand spring;
She shakes her rudder at the dome,
And with a swoop that cricks your spine she throws
a forward handspring.
She hit a wire, and on your chest
The little engine whirred, man.
The smashed propeller did the rest.
And you were a dead birdman.
A current of hot air we meet—
It is not wisely ferried:
She spills us down ten thousand feet,
And after we have hit the earth we’re comfortably
buried.
“There safety is in flight” is now
A saw of long duration.
We’ve yet to learn the why and how
Of problems of cessation.
In landing one must be more fly
Than when the day-stars beckon.
This lighting puzzle hints at why
The angels’ visits are so rare on solid earth, I reckon.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Get That “FAT" Off!
What’s the use of it, anyway?—it just makes you feel old and
helpless. Turn it into good, solid muscle. Reduce your waist measure-
ment and put it on to your chest. If you have never got yourself
into condition before, you don’t know what it feels like to be
really and truly alive. If you have kept yourself fit, but are
running to seed of late, you will be glad to renew the healthful,
exhilarating “fitness” you formerly enjoyed.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will get you into condition to enable you to tackle the
physical and mental work you engage in with a surplus
of energy and the efficiency that spells “success.”
The Baker exercises are based on sound scientific principles
—they are adapted to suit your special requirements as I
judge them from the particulars you send on my special form.
Send me your name and address, with three stamps for
postage, and I will send you FREE a copy of my interesting
Book, “Health and Strength from Self-Culture.”
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Specialist in Physioal Culture,
329 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
b.
v«*-
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the Wor 1 d*
Shave in Comfort.
©_©
ce
o©
If you could shave your-
self in three minutes as
well as the Barber does,
wouldn’t you rather
always do so than waste
valuable time at a bar-
ber’s shop ?
Then try a PERFORATED HONE.
It puts Easy Shaving within
reach of every man. Requires no
skill or experience to use. Give
six strokes or a hundred —you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations PREVENT WIRE-
EDGE and automatically produce
a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to U 3 within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading HARDWARE
MERCHANTS at 5/-, or POST
FREE 5/6 PROM
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11—123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
In thesaHlays we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BeilS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS I
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
An
Unique
State-
ment,
but True.
“Ross” Field Glasses are the
best the world produces.
The celebrated “Ross” Prismatic RACE Glasses
are the best Race Glass made in any part
of the world. ,
Ross Glasses were adopted for the British Navy
and British Army after trials of all other
makes of glasses.
They are hermetically sealed, and so withstand
all conditions of weather.
They have wonderful definition, light, and
extra large field.
We have just opened Models 6 and 8, and also
Ross’s Celebrated Marine Glasses and Tele-
scopes.
We sell Ross Glasses at Ross’s Catalogue Eng-
lish prices, plus only landing charges.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Vice-Regal Opticians for 25 Years.
Sight-testing Rooms Upstairs.
23 &. 2 5 Hunter St., Sydney
Prescriptions Our Specialty.
Missing Friends.
T F the next of kin of CHARLES SIL\ ER, late of
1 Cairns, in the State of Queensland, Freeholder,
who was born at Reckinghall, in the County of Suf-
folk England, and who died at Cairns aforesaid on
the twenty-ninth day of October, 1919, or in case
of their death, their representatives, will communi-
cate with the undersigned within nine calendar
months from the date hereof they may hoar of
something of advantage. Any information concern-
ing them will be thankfully received.
Dated this Fourteenth day of August 1920.
MacDONNELL & HAMLYN HARRIS,
Solicitors, Cairns, Queensland
London Agents: Leader, Plunkett & Leader,
Solicitors, 76 Newgate Street, London, England.
Legal Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.—In the Supreme Court, No.
411 of 1920. Re the Estate of THOMAS
MARTIN, late of Largs Bay, South Australia,
farmer, deceased.
TO MICHAEL AMBROSE MARTIN, nephew, and
to OWEN MARTIN, half-brother of the above-
named. . ,
TAKE NOTICE that an originating summons has
been issued by the executors and trustees of the
will and codicil of the abovenamed Thomas Martin
deceased for the advice and direction or an order
as to matters touching THE OF
THE ESTATE of the said deceased, AND THAT the
Court has by order dated the 19th Day of August,
1920, authorised SERVICE of the said summons on
each of vou by the advertisement of this notice.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are
REQUIRED TO APPEAR to the said summons
within ONE MONTH after the last publication of
this advertisement, AND THAT UNLESS YOU SO
APPEAR WITHIN THAT PERIOD the Court will
be asked to authorise DISTRIBUTION WITHOUT
REGARD TO YOUR CLAIMS respectively, and such
order may be made and proceedings taken in your
absence as the Court or a Judge may think fit.
DATED this 24th Day of August, 1920.
BAKER, GLYNN. PARSONS & CO., Morialta Cham-
bers, Victoria Square, ADELAIDE, Solicitors
for the Executors and Trustees.
NOTE. —ANY PERSON having any information
likely to assist in ASCERTAINING the whereabouts
or circumstances of the death of the abovenamed
MICHAEL AMBROSE MARTIN or OWEN MARTIN
is REQUESTED to COMMUNICATE with Messrs.
Baker, Glynn, Parsons & Co.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION" TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
Box 220 Q.P.O.
SYDNEY;
fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
RYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
f
TRADE
MARK.
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre=War Standard.
The “High Cost of Clothes
m
m.
Need Not Worry
YOU.
You need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes out of keeping
with your income, since you can, in
actual fact, still obtain GOOD Clothes
to Order at Moderate Cost.
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED —at prices
to suit any pocket.
Our present Display of Suitings for
Spring comprises probably the Biggest
Range of High-grade Suitings gathered
under one Retail Roof in Australia —
our Regular Stocks being further
enriched by the arrival of consign-
ments of
English Tweeds and
Worsteds, excellent in
quality and texture —Ideal
Suitings for the coming
Season.
Australian Pure Wool Tweeds, of
medium weight, forming an alluring
display of the latest weaves and color-
ings, while the inclusion of
Pure Merino Wool Indigo-dyed
Twills add materially to the selection
provided, and will be welcomed by
those who, of late, have found this tex-
ture practically unprocurable. Prices
range from
£6.15- to £l2/12/-
which, while assuring Perfect Tailor-
ing, are so moderate as to provide a
very definite reason for ordering Now!
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln,
Stuart 8 Co.
PTY.
LTD.,
• "Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders St., Melbourne.


QUALITY IN GOLF SHIRTS
Made in Australia
RR3 —Best quality Zephyr Golf Shirts,
with white neck-bands, soft double cuffs
and detachable Peter Pan collars to match.
Best make and finish. White grounds
with various smart colored stripe designs.
All sizes. Price, each .. 16/6. .3 for 48/-
RR4 —Smart Zephyr Golf Shirts, linen
neck-bands, double cuffs and detachable
Peter Pan collars to match. Neat stripes in
sky, helio and black on white grounds. All
sizes. Price, each.... 18/6... .3 for 54/-
Men's Outfitting Section :
Ground Floor, Pitt and Market Streets
m.
Wepay
carriage
FARMER’S
The Store ior Men
Box 497
G.P.O.
ds
l
*
When the little folks are “Croupy,” and
fretted by coughing fits, wise mothers
know that Bonnington’s Irish Moss will
not be thrust peevishly aside by little
hands, and called nasty medicine.
r
IRISH MOSS,
is pure and palatable
—bttle people wUI take
it readily, and soon
to nor-
mal health.
Xt cases of Whooping Cough,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ILOT X*
BsSKsasss®.-
BOKMiNCTOM'S
CARfI/kCCCN ’
IRISH"
wjffjtga
E i
BKS»BHkj»jg
L’kTMVI
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Parer and Mclntosh visited Federal Parlia-
ment House last week to have a bite of lunch
with the Cabinet. Hughes, who presided,
handed each birdman a cheque for £5OO and
buttered the presents with compliments. It
was rather a hurried affair, but almost every-
body said something to bring the blush of
confusion to the airboys’ cheeks. Both
spoke readily in response, but Mclntosh
brought the chuckles with his reminiscences,
and roused general “Hears, hears” with a
laughing suggestion that bigger cheques
would have been just as easy to lift. The
canny Scot was thinking how much of the
gift would be left after the petrol and other
bills Were paid.
No women or other outsiders were invited
t® the party, the only non-members being
the inevitable photographer, who supplied
the press with pictures of William handing
out the two cheques in opposite directions,
with an alone-I-did-it expression on his face.
The habit of dragging the photo-fiend to his
functions seems to be growing on William.
The two battlers have found that the
life of a successful flier is only “one dam’
feed after another.” Since they returned to
Melbourne they have been whizzing from
menu to menu. They ha<l to face a large
luncheon given by the Returned Soldiers’
Association at the Grand, and had hardly
escaped before they were considering another
pile of victuals at the Oriental. Private
snacks and teas have been crammed in be-
tween, and theatre parties have also been
arranged to rob them of their last fragment
of privacy. They have already received a
loud cheer at the Royal, and on Monday got
a warm welcome at a special performance
of “lolanthe” at Her Majesty’s.
When Parer and Mclntosh glided into a
box at the Royal the night of their “official”
arrival the best that Alfred Frith, who was
playing Pomarel in “The Girl in the Taxi,”
could think of as a gag was to tell Suzanne
(Cecil Bradley) to come to the railway
station in an aeroplane, and if that was not
obtainable to trust to a pair o’ macintoshes.
The Parer-Mclntoshes grinned with the
paying guests—politely, for Donald Mac-
kinnon had a few hours before made them
familiar with the jest at Flemington.
After fighting and beating ’flu as special
organiser, and then coming through un-
scathed from the attacks of Chinese pirates,
John McWhae had the narrowest escape
from a sudden flight to Kingdom Come under
the shadow of Melbourne Town Hall. He
was strolling back to his office after lunch
(he has no need to hurry, as he sits behind
a few thousands) when he was spread out by
a motor-bikist who had lost his head. The
victim got nasty bruises on the thigh, hands
and wrists, and a bad shaking. Surgeon
Dick Stirling, friend of his boyhood, patched
him up, and he entertained callers with
some of the yarns about trade (and other
things) which he brought down from the
North.
The fox hunting gallops of the Melbourne
Hounds are vividly recorded for the Aus-
tralasian by one “Ringwood,” who supplies
the sort of spirited and technical pen-pictures
one might expect from an experienced M.F.H.
And “Ringwood” is Miss E. Fitzsimmons, a
daring young Australian who rides as dash-
ingly as she writes in this her first year of
journalism! She can handle an artist’s
brush as well as a pen, and a sporting editor
who values her breezy “copy” glances at the
engagement-ring she wears and wonders how
long presswork will hold her. The lucky
man is a returned aviator.
Exalted circles suffered a bereavement
last week when at Victoria’s penal rest-home,
Geelong Gaol, John Garson, 75, laborer,
died of heart disease and debility while
serving a sentence of six months for vagrancy
at Ballarat. At the Coroner’s inquiry it was
disclosed that deceased was a cousin of Sir
Edward Carson, King of Ulster. The old
man had been gathered in for his own safety,
but a week of State board and lodging suf-
ficed.
The most jaded English smart-setters, hav-
ing exhausted the jazz, threaten to take on the
native Arab dances as performed by the half-
dozen real Arabs who lend sound, color and
motion to the dramatised version of
Hichens’s “Garden of Allah.” Exit the
big black drum-banger, enter the bronze
Biskra native. Can the last be worse than
the first?
The coal shortage has been a stiff proposi-
, tion for the owners of big paying guesteries.
Fires have been blue-pencilled in many a
sitting-room, and chilled dwellers have fled to
their bedrooms after meals and put on 200-
guinea fur-coats. The less hardy vow they
will have little homes and fires of their own
before next cold season. But in these days,
though woman may thus propose, it is the
god of the labor-union who disposes.
The Art Students are to have their annual
frisk on September 24 in St. Ivilda Town
Hall. There are to be masked revels in
plain and fancy togs, and Paul Bibron is
helping things on with some original ideas
and his cabaret orchestra.
J. LI. Monahan, long Clerk Assistant, fol-
lows C. CL Duffy as Clerk of the Senate. F.
U’Ren, Usher of the Black Rod, steps up
into Monahan’s old billet and hands over his
own post to R. A. Broinowski, late Clerk of
the Papers. Monahan has been attached to
the Senate since Federation, originally com-
ing _ from the Ma State Parliament, which
he joined in 1899. Broinowski, once in the
Defence Dept., is a brainy young man with
artistiC: leanings, and is one of the wetnurses
of the new Repertory movement.
Mrs. Philip Morton's sisters, Nona and
Daisy Hay, held a reception at Menzies’ as
they halted in Melbourne en route from
Sydney to London. They go to link up
with sister Kate Crowley, who is touring
with her hubby, Dr. Neil Crowley. The
Ambroise Gaffneys stood by them and sorted
out the visiting-cards and flowers, which
flowed in like Toorak’,s subscriptions to the
Peace Loan after the last dreadful warning
had been given.
The Frank Otters are lighting up this
somewhat dull town. The Frank Otter lady
is an amazingly handsome, well-nourished
damsel, and, as Ida Barnard, used to be one
of St. Kilda’s beauties. Her
are like unto those of a profiteer’s wife, and
their richness makes her sisters faint with
envy. As for her furs, well. Otter is a ,
good name, but Mrs. Chinchilla-Fox would
fit her better. A brief footlight career is
one of her memories.
The Rajah of Pudukota and his Ranee
have been received at Buckingham Palace
by George and Mary. A very pleasant pow-
wow took place, King George being quite
frolicsome. The Queen’s now greying
thatch was set off by a suiting of saxe blue,
and Princess Mary took a hand at the con-
versations. The Rajah dined with George a
few nights later. The Pudukotas were
splashing in the sea at giddy Deauville when
last heard of.
Melbourne’s genial Town Clerk Ellery has
been very much worried of late because of
Mrs. Ellery’s serious illness. With very
little warning she was prostrated, and three
of Melbourne’s best surgeons decided on an
immediate operation. The latest news from
the bedside is reassuring. Quiet, gentle, re-
tiring, she has been a tower of strength to
her many-sided husband.
Twenty-five years ago Adelaide was
startled by the precocity of a pianist of
seven who played compositions of his own.
Unlike some other prodigies, he has made
good—by work as
well as by genius.
He studied hard for
10 years under
Bryceson Treharne
in Adelaide, and in
London under Stan-
ford, Bridge, Taylor,
Parratt, Wood and
Clutsam, with inter-
vals in Paris to de-
vel o p the- artistic
temperament. Brew-
ster-Jones, whose
portrait this is, now
has a symphony
orchestra i n Adel-
aide, which he con-
ducts when not him-
sel f playing the
piano. He has pro-
duced several compositions of his own, and
has in stock an opera or two not yet heard.
He is appearing with Sobell, in Melbourne,
and at a Northcote concert, after which he
visits Sydney to play the piano for Ver-
brugghen.
Adelaide boils the week dow-n :
A big crowd attended the A.R.C. races on Saturday,
when the Victoria Park course, in its Spring dress,
looked as festive as the feminine punters. His Ex.
and Lady Weigall are keen racegoers and arrived in
time for the first event. In the evening the vice-
regal pair took a large party to the opening night
of the Australian musical comedy, “F.F.F.”
Graceful, fair-haired Dora Horwood, of Toorak
(Vic.) and Broken Hill, has promised to honor and
obey Bob Wood,- second son of the Peter Woods, of
Burnside. The bride, who was a treasure of a war-
worker, wore a gown of ivory brocade over pale
pink chiffon, and the good-looking bridegroom was
in khaki. Among the guests was Mrs. Gilbert Wood,
92 years young. She is the mother of Peter Wood,
who is father of the bridegroom and uncle of the
bride.
The Girton House flappers gave a cheerful dance
on Monday night, the guests of the evening being
tile Melbourne Grammar School football team.
Passed out recently, F. B. Andrews, a doyen of
the State Civil Service, but perhaps more famous for
his first-hand knowledge of the northern areas and
the early history of S.A.
The Arthur Waterhouses gave an exclusive dance
on Friday night. Son Tim is one of the coming law-
yers, and his sisters are experts in the hunting-field.
Anything these times for a jazz. The firm of
Bennett and Fisher are opening their Port Adelaide
wool stores with one on the 17th. Special trains
there and back.
Death has taken popular Dr. Tim Hynes—too
soon; he was only 55. Jim was one of the boys
who made the Christian' Brothers’ College talked
of in its early days, and later he mixed surgery
with travel. Like many another who has given
over-much attention to athletics in his youth, he
found himself almost an invalid in his early middle-
age.
“Teddy” Bolger, one of Melbourne’s wit-
tiest bachelors, won't pay any bachelor tax
after this year. The lady who has agreed
to help him evade it is Mrs. Cunningham,
widow of the Major.
Vera Evans, the younger of the Titian-
haired sisters who once flashed attractively
in stage limelight, has promised to make
Harry Westbrook happy. Fianc6 Harry,
lately of the A.1.F., lives at Brighton, with
his parents and his widowed sister, whose
husband, Col. Churchus, sleeps under a
wooden cross in France.
Mrs. Palmer, long known as Rose Caran-
dini, is 76 this month, and in November she
will celebrate her “diamond wedding.” For
nearly half a century she figured in Mel-
bourne music, scoring heavily in oratorio,
but gathering bou-
quets also as a soul-
ful balladist in the
company of Charles
Santley, Foli, Rose-
nati and others who
toured this country.
The girl who is now
a dear old lady made
he r first public
appearance at the
opening of the R.C.
Cathedral at Hobart
in 1856, and two
years later she was
singing in her
mother’s favorite
opera of “Norma.”
Hobart, by the way,
is her birthplace : her
dad. an Italian poli-
tical exile, taught the local gentry dancing,
music and languages, llis full style was
the Marchese Carandini di Sarzano, but he
found plain “Mr. Carandini” just as useful
in winning a crust. This portrait of the
well-preserved songstress was taken by Van-
dyck a few years ago.
That popular Toorak girl, Hilda Murray
Jones, has just accepted Major Stewart
Love, son of the late Duncan Love, of “The
Lane.” The Major came home with a
D.S.O. and a Military Cross for work done
with the Royal Engineers.
Letta Yenclcen and Dr. Whitehead are
bracketed on _ the prospective matrimonial
lists. She is the daughter of Duncan
Yencken, of Malvern.
Willie Cain, younger brother of Bob Cain,
Melbourne’s pre-war Beau Brummel, is pre-
paring to bestow himself on an attractive
English cousin, Dorothy Cobbold, who
arrived early this year on a visit to the
woolly Bananaland Cobbolds.
The guess that Joan Lazarus would* con-
tinue barristeering after marriage, because
the practice of the Law was born in her,
turns out to be wrong. On Wednesday last
week, when the pretty little lady was made
one with. Dr. Rosenon—the ceremony came
to pass in the bride’s Ballarat home —she
abandoned her former profession to its'fate.
Her husband has fixed his brass-plate at a
remote hamlet on the N. S. Wales border,
and there they will abide together.
John McCormack tells a yarn of his first
appearance in opera at-Naples. It was in
“Pagliacc-i,” and John’s opening solo as the
heart-broken clown was received with what
he thought was a hostile hiss. Trembling
with fright he prepared to bolt into the night
outside, but was held back by a friendly
colleague, who explained that the sound he
heard was only the accumulated “Bis!” or
encore, of an impressed multitude asking
him to sing again. The tenor went back
and finished the evening in a tumult of
“Bravos 1” and other kind remarks.
This is the last time that Australia is
likely to see McCormack on the concert
platform. He is now on what he really
thinks is his final world-tour, lasting three
or four years, and on its Conclusion he will
probably retire. John now owns a couple
of fine homes and enough cash to keep him
in affluence for the rest of his life, and it is
not unlikely that he will spell for a while
and then take a header into U.S. politics.
Since he became a naturalised Yankee the
American political game has interested him
greatly.
Willie Murdoch, the Ballarat boy whose
talent for piano-playing was as marked as
his awkward gait on the platform, is a
widower. His wife, Ellen Tuckfield, died
the other day in London. She also was a
pianist, with a turn for composition. What
kept her in close touch with her husband
was her popularity as an accompanist,
which got her engagements at concerts
wherein William was appearing as soloist.
They met first when they were fellow-
students at the Royal College of Music.
Recollections of Agatha Millar, whose fine
young soprano was heard with the Marshall
Hall orchestra of old, are revived by a story
of all that has, happened to her voice within
the past 10 years. Miss Millar (Mrs. Hogg
nowadays) was in England when a severe
attack of diphtheria brought her singing
career to a full stop. The voice had gone.
She tried a series of famous teachers—Mal-
linson, Blanche Marcliesi, Stockhausen and
others —but not one of them could restore
even a little of her lost vocal range. The
methods of voice-production which they teach
were utterly nonproductive in Mrs. Hogg's
case. At last the disheartened lady came
back to Melbourne, and was advised to give
Theophilus Roberts’s method a chance, with
the result that she is now, after two months’
instruction by that musical-throat specialist,
in a fair way to return to the concert plat-
form. He was equally successful with Roy
James, an Auckland school-teacher, whose
voice was knocked out by laryngitis. Dr.
Sawrey sent the patient to Mr. Roberts to
see what his method of throat-teaching could
do. It did a lot in a very few months—so
much that the patient took up his profession
and talked.
Hector Lightfoot, who used to warble the
tenor part as one of the Cathedral Quar-
tette Party, ahd who has been abroad for
.six years, has returned with his musical
family in tow. Two pretty girls, a clever
little dancer and a soldier son sing and play
on all sorts of instruments, from a xylophone
to a concertina and banjo. They are making
music and fun at the Playhouse this week.
Elsie Davies, who in private life is the
signora whose husband is first aide to Italian
Consul-General Grossardi, gave a recital last
week at the Melba Hall. She has just been
appointed to the Uni. Conservatorium sing-
ing staff, and to mark the occasion she gave
numbers from Purcell and Wagner, Puc-
cini and Gounod to show how cosmopolitan
her musical tastes are.
John Longstaff spent a fortnight in Mel-
bourne without being detected by many of
his most intimate friends. Of course the
family at Shepparton had to come first, as
it was mostly his desire to see his parents
that had brought him to Australia. He
speaks appreciatively of the abilities of the
rising generation of Australian painters.
John Shirlow gave a little informal dinner to
welcome the distinguished Australian.
The Bendigo Art Society’s first exhibition
has drawn to a triumphal close. The society
was formed by a few enthusiasts a few
months ago, and tickets were soon travelling
all over the State. A flattering number of
Melbourne’s notables were as eager as any
to possess the little piece of pasteboard, and
the membership list was soon adorned with
the names of Shirlow, Cobb, McNally and
others. The exhibition was opened by Pre-
mier Lawson on Saturday, August 14. M.
J. McNally’s “Grey Curtain” and etchings
by Shirlow and Cobb occupied the places of
honor, while among the oils, Miss Yandell's
“Destiny” held its own in the struggle.
McNally was at the official opening, and
went away impressed with the “excellence
of the local work.” He selected for his own
collection a little water-color by a lad named
Bone.
Marie Tempest uses buff and brown hang-
ings in place of ordinary scenery in “Out-
cast,” at the Royal, and increases the effect
by leaving quaint furniture and old silver
scattered about. Marie, however, isn’t
always in keeping with her somewhat sombre
surroundings. In the second act she is a
vision in pink and white, and in the third
can only moan for her busted hopes in
elaborate confectionery, whose principal
ingredient is a turquoise coat, trimmed with
black fur, a rudder trailing astern. When
she calls on Geoffrey in the final scene a rich
black evening gown, with a smart pink cloak,
help her to express her fashionable grief.
Graham Browne for his part tries to look as
if he is capable of buying her clothes. His
own garments are irreproachable, the liveliest
feature being a pair of grey-topped boots.
This is Ballarat’s jubilee year as a city,
and its oldest inhabitants are looking back
on the time when local prosperity was identi-
fied only with gold digging, and labor pro-
duced nothing to speak of above ground.
Ballarat talks of other things than nuggets
and specks these times; also it is less
enamored of its statuary than it was when
the city first aspired to be beautiful. In-
deed, unsympathetic visitors have almost per-
suaded some of the inhabitants that their
public works of art fall a bit short of the
ancient Athenian standard.


wa
s
m
I
1*
FOX
FOX
mm
v/Mm
FOX
FOX
FOX
FOX
FOX
y
FOX
FOX
snnißS
lilli
ft
i
Genuine
i : M
mmmm
m .
MW®
w
□
J
;. : ::
■ ■
# in i
n
iiiiii
M
HI
GUARANTEED
BRITISH
PCI RE
WOOI.
mm
■
thk
MMS
FOX
.
m
mmmm
■■
Westclox — Glo-Ben
Glo-Ben delivers a
twenty-four hour time
service ; in broad daylight
or pitch darkness
it stands ready to
give you the time at
a glance.
does the trick, with a glow
that lasts for years. Glo-
Ben is a well-finished,
man’s size watch, built to
combine dependable
timekeeping with
reasonable price and
A radium compound does it.
Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 15/-;
Jack o’Lantern, 22/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6;
Boyproof, 12/6
America, 10/6;
Glo-Ben, 20/-:
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
®BiS
nmm
j'o«Ko.®y
MON
ai)at* 6. • •
RING CATALOGUE.
Personal pride should dictate
exercise of extreme care in the selec-
tion of Gem Rings. To facilitate this
Drummond’s have issued a very
exclusive Catalogue, representative
of their choice selections, and illus-
trating many new and exquisite
examples of the highest-grade work-
manship. This Booklet will be for-
warded post free to country residents.
®Em. ©rummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.


/Under'
Royal
Warrant
f
To H.M.
Kin% .
George V>
CHAMPAGNE!
asm
Champagne,
Q »artesHeidsie<fc
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and offers
the tourist altogether
delightful accommoda-
tion.
Collins St. Melbourne.
ds
At the
Whim
of
Fashion
*
It is indeed a task, that of keep-
ing pace with Dame Fashion and
her fickle moods. But it is one
in which the Shave designers and
craftsmen delight.
It is so much easier, of course,
when one’s art is so advanced as
to permit of the elimination of
fittings. Thus it is with Shave.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers^
Centreway,
Melbourne.
f
The very latest
style ideas are
expressed in
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves.
The fabric is soft and strong,
the workmanship is high
class, and the gloves are
accurate in fit. Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves are double
tipped, and should finger tips
wear through before they have
given a reasonable amount of
wear, or have been washed,
the gloves will be replaced.
Your draper should stock them.
VF 28
' V<mity r fair
gfliruK rpiruin^^
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
David
Jones
Cataloger.
The Women Handicrafters have moved
their showroom to Dymock’s, in Elizabeth-
street, and the long, well-lighted room is
fragrant with what a contemporary has
delicately called our ‘‘most intimate gar-
ments”—trifles of muslin and lace, or
whispered pink and blue flowerlets on silk
that would make the most errant dad work
Ins hardest to buy the baby a frock. All
kinds of leather accessories, too, with rich
silk handbags; and in the middle of the
floor a glass case blooms with the delicate
flowers that grow in the hands of the Czay-
kowska and Grant ladies. Among the trea-
sures in layers of tissue paper is a trous-
seau of fine linen for a next-month’s bride.
It bears in delicate French embroidery the
lotus flower, which brings happiness, and,
where Miss Suburbia has furlongs of torchon
and val., its garments carry edgings of Irish
crochet. The room is furnished with hand-
some all gifts from the committee,
the Dame Hay and Mrs. llobertson, of Sum-
mer Hill, being amongst the generous. The
Women’s Handicraft Association was founded
not so much with an eye to profits as to
open up a market for sisters with subtle and
artistic fingers. They will make new lace
for you or mend the broken threads in the
priceless old bit that great-grandmother wore
on her wedding day.
Ringlets are coming into fashion again
owing largely to the Mary Pickford follow-
ing. Dorothy Seacombe, the little sister in
‘Tilly, ’ wears a head of them. Dorothy,
who is just 15, has already been earning her
own margarine and sugar for six years. Last
week Daphne and Diana Davidson shared
their evening porringer with her, and his Ex.
made much of her, no doubt with the thought
of his own carefully-folded lambkins in his
fatherly mind. “Tilly” herself is a minor
and a ward, her guarding walking the stage
as the disreputable Stillbottle. But in real
life he is a Mrs. Grundy for the conventions
and proprieties.
One night last week pupils, past and pre-
sent, of St. Vincent’s met in the handsome
school, hall to welcome the new Mother-
General of the Order in Australia, who, by
the way, was the founder of the Melbourne
House, wlhich was the first St. Vincent’s in
Melbourne ; and R.C. Melbourne gathered in
great force to farewell her a few weeks ago
when the duties of her new office called her
to the big Convent in Victoria-street. W. J.
Coad conducted an orchestra of white-clad
girls, Father Peoples read the “Greeting”
from the pupils in round resonant tones, as
though he was Horatio keeping the Bridge,
and Father Murphy whispered the message
from the old girls in the most confidential
manner in the world. Bishop Dwyer from
Wagga (where the wild-geese fly from)
handed out the leaving certificates to a bunch
of sweet-looking flappers who are in the
chrysalis stage of medicine and dentistry.
Ex-soldier Father McAuliffe was another of
those at the supper laid out in the classroom
past the Oratory on the first landing, where
the good sisters, all hospitality and smiles,
insisted on feasting the visiting puss on
creamy good things until the purr of the puss
sounded over all.
The Walker Convalescent Home, on the
Parramatta, has lost its popular matron,
Ruth Newnham, who has been 25 years on
the nursing staff and has worn the chief’s
cap-and-apron for the past 14. An illumi-
nated address and silver flower-vases expressed
in some measure the grief of the nursing staff
and patients at losing Miss Newnham. The
oome, which has also served as a soldiers’
aospital, and last year as a rampart against
the ’flu, has once more become the old Con-
valescent Home where so many Sydneysiders
Snd renewed health.
St. Philip’s, Church Hill, was the trysting
place of two good A.1.F.-ers on Saturday
when Sister Jessie Burns, formerly of the
French Front, proudly wore her Red Cross
to wed her khaki-clad chaplain, Major Tom
Terry, who was cheered to the post by Alan
Burns and Lionel Boone—both lieutenants.
Bride’s sister Ella, looking like a young
Spring day in primrose drapings, and bride-
groom’s sister Mollie, in a dress that shone
like a bit of silver beach, stood by the bride
luring the operation. A choral anaesthetic
was administered, and Padres Begbie and
iToung bound together the two wounded
hearts.
Another Saturday wedding was that of
Gwen Hawke, who V.A.D.’d at Manly for five
years. Her hero was Charles Jean Gaert-
ner, who won his Croix de Guerre in France,
where the bride’s eldest brother was killed
after gaining his commission and the Mili-
tary Medal. Gwen’s mother and father
received the guests at the Steyne Hotel. St.
Matthew’s Church saw the knot-tying.
This week Phyllis, a daughter of Robert
Callaghan, of Gordon, says “I will” to Ted
Sutton, of Killara, lately a major in the
A.1.h., at the local Methodist Church.
Edward D. Hordern and ’groom’s brothers
Gordon and Alwyn support him, and Vera
Sutton and the bride’s sisters attend her.
Jubilations at the Killara Hall.
Dr. Robert Woods, who served with the
Light Horse, has promised to do even more
for Sister Crawford, who also wears her
honor badge. When the honeymoon wanes,
they intend to take up their residence at
Goulburn.
Crichton Imrie gets to London :
I never realised that Sydney was really so lovely
until I saw London. For three weeks it has been
raining—a continuous thick drizzle oozing out of
a dull leaden sky. When our lot arrived we sepa-
rated at Waterloo station. W r e had all been told
that there was not a room of any kind to be had
in London. 1 went off in a taxi, and got into
the third place 1 called at. It was near Portman-
square. A very ordinary, exceedingly quiet-looking
place, in what I thought was a back street. Cer-
tainly the room seemed rather superior for so
ordinary-looking an hotel, but it was my first experi-
ence of a room in London. I stayed a week and got
a bill—for the room only—for £lO. I went to the
office to rectify the mistake. The manager main-
tained a perfectly calm expression, and wrote nearly
three pounds off. I discovered that this was really
a place that Crowned Heads had stayed in, and not
very long before her illness. Queen Alexandra had
called there to visit some Princess. It is to these
wry quiet, unpretentious places that such people
come in the West End. They live and dine in the
privacy of their own apartments; this place had most
gorgeous suites hidden away.
Then, when I was exploring for a room, I dis-
covered Park-lane. It looked like Victoria-street
boarding-houses in Darlinghurst, only not so nice.
In fact, altogether, London looks a queer old town;
it needs another fire so badly I had a good mind to
start it. I saw by the papers that Westminster Abbey
threatens to topple down with decay. I was so
glad; I hope it does. I was shown a place in
Cheapside that had survived the fire. A live Health
Department would see that it had another. The
whole place is full of awful ghosts. I can feel them
everywhere, and it is most depressing.
Then I went for a week to a boarding-house in
Russell-square. Oli, the food! One time I had
little fancies—l never took soup, and didn’t like
gravy. But here I soon wolfed everything. You
got tiny scraps of food of the worst quality. No
sugar, and the most awful grease for butter.
But you learn in time. Now I have two rooms
in Gloucester-street, Palace Gates, and I am paying
only £2 2s. for them. And I roam with the other
cats to pick up my food.
Ruby Cole smiles at you here. She is the
pretty and clever elocution girl from Mosman
who is the star item on many a concert pro-
gramme. An artful young person, she tackles
her job in so natural a manner that it loses
all sense of being a re-
citation. That is
why she makes such
a success of Padre
Co c k s’s “Betty
Songs.” All concert-
going Sydney knows
this lyrical romance
of an irresistible Bill-
jim and the girl he
left behind him, and
Ruby has so identi-
fied the story with
herself that she is
Betty to her audi-
ences. N. J. Cocks,
who shepherds the
Pitt-street Congrega-
tional Church, is
father of a whole
treasury of verse,
grave and gay. Organist Lilian Frost has
composed a musical background for “Betty ”
and there is even talk of that lady making
a screen appearance before she is much older.
This week she made her bow to a select audi-
ence of him magnates and the State Exes.
Ruby, her interpreter, confesses to a desire
to do serious work, and daydreams herself
Rosalind or Desdemona, but meantime her
audiences demand Something Bright.
Painter Gruner, down in Sydney for a
few days’ spell from Emu Plains, reports
that he has again been tackling his favorite
problem of morning light on frosted pad-
docks. And, just by way of variety, the
brilliant colorist has experimented with a
few aeroplane sketches. Although this is
new to Australian art, several flving Eng-
lishmen have hung pictures of landscapes as
the bird and the aviator see them. Thus
tar on his air journeys the Australian has
not had the luck to get white, fleecv clouds
between himself and the earth. When he
does something angelic may result.
Madge Titheradge has had London at her
feet since her first night in “The Garden of
Allah,” when mother and sister Lily (Mrs.
Herrick Knowles) leaned out of their box
and almost wept with delight to see the
triumph of. their pretty, big-hearted little girl.
After the last curtain they went behind to
find a crowd of the’ Peerage and the artistic-
somebodies of England paying court to
Madge. Mrs. Titheradge, by the way, has
been ill, and has had to undergo a slight
operation since her arrival in England; and
Mrs. Knowles, senior, who is S 4, suffered
quite a serious carving-up at St. Vincent’s
some weeks ago. Mrs. Herrick when last
heard of was in Paris, and hoping to get a
passage in time to see Sydney again in
Chi-istmas week.
On Thursday the Country Press extended
the glad hand to Elsie Todhunter, its first
lady stenographer, who left that day after
10 years’ service. General-manager Shake-
speare handed her a cheque from the direc-
tors, and a silver tea-service and Doulton
tea-set from the staff. Elsie, who comes
from Concord, weds next month, at the Bur-
wood Presbyterian Church, Arthur Walder,
of Coff’s Harbor, and he's “late of the
A.1.F.,” too.
Norman Lloyd is fair Sydney’s lover, and
at 24 he has not only fought for his lady
in far-off France, but has extolled her
charms on 50 canvases which are to be seen
at the Women Painters’ Rooms, Queen Vic-
toria Markets. At
16 Nor in u n ran
away to follow the
sungleam an d the
wind’s call that
wooed him through
an office-window. It
was up with Matilda
then and follow the
track. Whatever
job came to his hand
ho did —now a bit of
fencing, now a bit of
clearing; and in the
intervals he painted
with th e sincerity
and simplicity of a
g r eat lover the
changing moods of
the open sky. Jack-
son was his first
•master; then Julian Ashton instilled his own
line precepts into him. On his 21st birthday
Lloyd enlisted and fought in France till a
bursting shell got him in Polygon Wood
wounding him in both thighs. After the
witch men of the knife had done with him,
JNorman, to his relief, found himself quite
whole; and coming home to Sydney, he
drifted, back to the tube. The results of the
past nine months’ work are color-poems on
the oO ways of approach to his mistress, for
all his theme is the Harbor—in the glow of
morning, in the afternoon haze, or under
the light of the moon.
The opening day of the show called to-
i al *tistic Sydney, when kindly Sir
Walter and his blue-tailored lady sprinkled
it with the holy water of vice-regal approval
and had their red seal pasted to a fairy-
dream glimpse “From Cremorne Point’’—
‘ not with an eye to its certain increase in
value, but to keep always as a memento of
Sydney. ’ Commander Allison chose a bit
of glowing color called “Sunlight on Middle
Harbor ; Hr. Donald Fraser, just missing'
the universal favorite, “Bradley’s Head,”
chose what to him was the next best thing—
The Harbor from Athol.” The Women
Painters turned up in their best spring mil-
linery to the exhibition, which they are hous-
ing Gruner, Julian Ashton and old-teacher
Jackson were among the enthusiasts. Judith
® letcher took the picture of the painter.
Mrs. Mark Foy and her daughters Maxine
and Shiela are expected from America this
month. These girls have made strides as
artists. Their father was poetically in-
clined, and he gave vent to verse during his
honeymoon riding-tour through the Blue
Mountains, when the young couple’s tent
was strapped to a pack-horse. It was that
jaunt amid the valleys and hills which
years dater produced the Hydro-Majestic at
Medlow.
Dr. EJizabeth Hamilton Browne, who has
been ministering to the ailments of India,
expects to have leave to slip over to Rose
Bay and cheer her mother for two months.
Kathleen Ussher, who put in over four
years’ war service in different units (she
finished up at Gibraltar as an officer of
the W.R.N.S.), returned home by the
Niagara in company with mother and violin-
ist-sister Lorna (married now but still
u ssher), whose home is in the City of the
Angels, across the blue Pacific.
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Lodge returned to
“the Continent” at the close of the London
•season, Mrs. Gilbert Lodge having been pre-
sented at Court on- June 24 by Countess
Curzon of Kedleston. She wore for the
occasion a gown of fine cream lace mounted
on palest-pink georgette that trailed a length
of black panne velvet and tulle for train.
Even in that assemblage the rope of pearls
the lady wore caused a gasp of admiration.
Australia will see the Gilbert Lodge couple
at the end of the year.
Mrs. Harry Vale, of Gheyne, Strathfield,
was hostess of one of the jolliest parties of
last week. She entertained 150 guests at
the Burwood Town Hall, which didn’t know
itself in its unaccustomed adornments of
tree-ferns, camellias and trails of smilax.
Mrs. Ross Munro, who has been holiday-
ing in Honolulu, has gone back to her West-
Queensland home. She intends spending
the summer with her mother, Mrs. John-
ston, at Moss Vale.
The Lionel Bridges and Mrs. Jimmie
Osborne are among the returned-to-Aus-
tralia. The Bridges have been to New York
and ’Frisco, while Mrs. Jimmie has been
visiting dad in New Jersey.
New Jersey claimed the Mark Sheldon
family for the end of the summer season.
Their particular bit of it was Spring Lakes,
one of the beauty spots of U.S.A.. where
there are two of the “most palatial hotels
in the. world.”
Sister B. Coffey, one of the nurses who
went to the war with the Tommies, is just
back in Sydney. Her first experience was
in the Gallipoli blunder, and later she served
in three continents—France, South-West
Africa and Mesopotamia. After a spell she
is going to hospital work at Damascus or
thereabouts.
Florence Bestic (now Mrs. Eastwood),
back from war-work and a honeymoon in
Wales, is visiting at the Donald Fraser
home in College-street. Dr. Donald himself
has started a class in psychometry in con-
nection with the Theosophical Society, and
to his great joy saw in the front row at his
first lecture a strapping young man to whom
35 years ago auto-suggestion was applied in
a case of supposed galloping consumption!
The little Yankee girl, Kathleen Keys,
who came to Sydney to play opposite
"Snowy” Baker in “The Fighting Jackeroo,”
returned hurriedly to America after helping
to make the one film. Kathleen, being
Amurkan to her fingertips, was always in a
hurry to tell you that she was one of the
girls the Prince danced with in Los Angeles.
She’s a pretty, slim thing, and was pitch-
forked into the part without getting much
of a chance to study Australian character
and ways.
Nance Macdonald rushed back to Goul-
burn to lend her aid at Mrs. Willie Neil
Macdonald’s ball, fixed for Monday. There
are pioneering associations connected with
this branch of Lord Macdonald’s clan: the
brothers Willie Neil and Charles Macdonald,
after three years’ exploration, settled on the
extensive Fossil Downs property in West
Kimberley (W.A.) —that was about ISB3.
Derby, the seaport township, is the last word
in dreariness, so it’s no wonder the present
owner’s wife prefers a Goulburn residence.
Lieut.-Governor Cullen and his lady have
promised to be present at a dance at the
Wentworth on the 22nd. The idea is to
buy another load or two of bricks for the
Louisa Macdonald wing of the Women’s
College.
All Queenslanders the world over are in-
terested in Lavender Day appeal. For the
£lO,OOO that the Northern State hopes to
gather in by October 29 is to go to the
soldiers’ C. of E. Help Society, which has
provided a Rest place for returned men at
Coolangatta, and has lately acquired Riveria,
on the North Quay, to help out the Brisbane
accommodation. The present appeal is for
funds to make things brighter in the various
soldier-settlements. Secretary Major F. 1..
Dawson, of Queen-street, Brisbane, is the
Aunt Sally at whom cheques, etc., may be
aimed without charge.
Helen Campbell, who is making an ex-
tended stay as Dame Margaret’s guest, is a
daughter of the late Campbell, M.L.C., and
sole survivor of the family—the rest have
all gone west within the last eight years.
One of the Prince’s staff paid her* more than
ordinary attention; .so
Surgeon Reuter E. Roth, of Potts Point,
has a delightful daughter married to Cap-
tain van Reimsdyk, one of the leading
veterinary authorities in Java. Though the
Captain makes annual trips to purchase Aus-
tralian horses for the Dutch military, his
wife seldom accompanies him; she prefers
her artistic home at Padalarang, where a
swimming-pool keeps her and her two boys
in good form, and where mixed bathing par-
ties are sometimes arranged.
A boarding-house Elizabeth Bay way
rejoiced greatly on having acquired a wait-
ress and a kitchen-maid who were quite
admirable Crichtons both. Boarders marked
the deftness of the charming waitress who
handled plates like a Cinquevalli, and only
hoped she and her friend would stay. They
did stay—till a couple of detectives hove in
sight, looking for two (male) burglars. Then
the paragons sprinted, leaving a dainty
feminine wardrobe as a souvenir of their
successful term as female impersonators,
The trousseau of silk, lace and beb6 ribbons
has not yet been called for.


-
■ 1
-
:?/\
».iv S ~T*'- s#“ <
, '. v-s.*.
»** #**>»*?'■
■
r;-:T.
i iv
tv
£». m i
«g " **& v P*s«-
'%Vs«*JssK
‘ XlSlf &„. , J
“\ V 1 _' \r ' M «*w** ' ” v
'■ifesir '
>'• /, x v
■
„ -oMSt %»&£$!&& 5:
m:?
\
■
m
wtzm
*
■
m
■
;^5S=
,. - ' ■•>•-
• ' .. 0..»,-. . w . WKV- • ■ ,=
.
'
£ •
a
:,X
: :
!
rz m
)
1 |j
■■ ■ *
T
WX Xt
, 4
M
• •
m sk
»< v •»
.
f -V
%
Ld
a
m
i
s
iff ■
wi
;LJB
\ -
•®'ltSXs
r« -■:
*i
H-i i Hj
i&. 11.144
umm
• |jy %
w.
■ V’
WJffS
■
%
S
H
k
mmm
i««
•j
,
14 V w
X
I
* II r :
»
Hi
;swmm
v .
X
•■■■;: “..: ■■■■■
•v ' •
1
>
XXX
a
umm
!?V. >
Xi:; 1 - '
* 5 .. -
•>';
li
%> '* i.-\
'
B n
Every Guest Sincerely Enjoyed
the Evening
Those who sang were at their best.
The accompaniments—played the
Beale-Player way—possessed a charm-
ing sympathetic feeling that formed a
perfect background to each guest’s
effort.
Those whose conception of music was far in
advance of their manual dexterity, experienced
the keenest pleasure in being able to sit down
to an instrument which supplied all they lacked.
In the first half hour everyone was acquainted
and the evening rippled to a swift end—enjoy
ed by all.
It is easy to entertain the c ßeale- c Player uvay
Showrooms :
33 j George Street
Sydney
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD
Factory:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismorc, Newcastle, Goulbum,Wagga
Victoria : Maples, in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart
Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland :
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Maryborough; Townsville; Rockhampton ;
Mackay; Cairns.


/
i- cJhe largest selling
quality pencil hi
ihe world
m
dsf
best for
architects,
artists,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
business men,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Learn to Draw
ilfz-.
2S
The above t
is the Wtlefl
of our bo ok-
-Ift. wlii eh
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawling—both
as a profession and
as a pasti me. It
describes itn detail
the Drawing Course
by HARIRY J.
WESTON, .Austra-
lia’s famousi artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
3 Union House, Cr. George & Grosvenor Sts.,
SYDNEY.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist,Southampton, England
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mbs man, Sydney. N.S.W,
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jett}', Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
, and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price fot it.
L
WRITE FOR OUR FINE
SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
70 SADDLES TO
CHOOSE FROM.
OUR TEXAS
SADDLE
IS NOW FIRMLY ESTABLISHED IN
FAVOR, AND IS BEING SENT OUT IN
RAPIDLY-INCREASING NUMBERS.
The tree in this saddle is made with
steel horn, and is exceptionally strong, to
stand the rough usage these saddles get.
It is fitted with two cord girths or cinchas,
and wooden stirrups.
.90
TEXAS
£ll/2/6
Freight Paid for Cash with
Order to any Port or Railway
Station In N.S. Wales.
Write for Price in the other States.
KOO-KOO-KOO-KOO
.K’BURRft WHIRS
?<■
A
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS.
Plaited Belly, Kangaroo Filling, No Sheepskin Used.
Thongs: Oft. 7ft. Bft. Oft. Handles: 16-plait, 16/6;
12-plait.. 17/- 10/6 22/0 21/6 24-plait, 18/6. Handles
16-plait.. 19/t 22/- 25/- 28/- for Oft. Thongs, 18/-
and 20/-
Whips Post Free for Cash with Order.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OP PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
ALWAYS SATISFACTORY-
No matter how roughly they are used or how severe the
conditions, springs made from
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Spring Steels
never fail to give satisfaction. Resili-
ency and strength are combined.
Our stocks are large, including Rounds,
Squares and Flats of all sizes.
Requests for prices, etc., receive
prompt attention when addressed to
Desk “A,” or ring City 9863 or 7819.
%
a <*ie on
The Eagle and Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Roulder Road, Kalgroorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ltd.
Newcastle.
6
,0
>•
Put “Vallo” on Guard
Give your Sheep the protection that is embodied in
every packet of “VALLO.” Remove every possi-
bility of uncertainty. There are no failures where
this reliable preparation is used, and there can
be no infection when your flocks have been through “VALLO.”
Powder SHEEP DIP
possesses merits which no Woolgrower should overlook. It is not an
experiment. Its equality to the best Dip ever on the market has been
firmly established by leading Pastoralists everywhere. Its growing
popularity is due to demonstrated efficiency and service. Every claim
for “VALLO” can be substantiated by performance records.
Trade Mark.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Look for the
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY - BRISBANE
S 4
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
2\ ame and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.T. (W.A.) : Don’t like yarns which de-
pend on human afflictions for their humor M.E.K.:
Lady, you trust to your imagination even for your
rules of grammar.... A. Deal: “Wheat” is not quite
good enough Murray: Sorry, a dud Exile: Buck
up! Dame Melancholy’s brood won’t always “sur-
round you and bemoan your There’s sure to be
a strike some day. .. .Efaen: Not much good from any
angle.... George A. C.: Nicely done; but there’s no
body in- it. . . .C.T.C.: Commonplace. .. .Ned C.: Poor
old Pegasus! You’ll break his knees if you make
him fall over fences like that C.V.P.: Unsuitable;
but there’s many a worse hymn than “Purgation.”... .
D.S.Iv.: We don’t doubt that it’s true, but we’d rather
chance an interesting lie than a dull gospel
Jonnie: Fair work, but too lugubrious for this time
of year. .. . Elemes: Obscure as Browning and un-
grammatical as Henley.... Bardoc: The labor you’ve
done in “Tophet” is too obvious, i. .J.H.P.: It’s a
“Dawn” that is as familiar as a breakfast sausage.
. ...E.8.: Better stick to your grocery business....
O B.: Ah, none of them can do it quite like this:—
... .E. 8.: You will not find us publishing any more
of your poetry than the following:—
I have a brother, like him no other,
Tall and of fine carriage is he,
Of gaiety he is a great lover,
To work hard the reason he never can see.
. ...E.T.K.: Not very interesting. .. .W.J.W.: No
good. ... Hope: Don’t.... Dom Three: Very close to
bathos. .. .S.D.M.: Be content for a while to show
them to your friends. .. .The Dowd: So rugged we
wore out two pairs of boots chasing your muse to
the bitter end. .. .D.H.S.: Rather cheap humor....
Etoile: Not even the first faint flush of the rosy
dawn of hope in it.... Trooper: Well, they’re not
the Diggers we know, and it isn’t the Cairo we know
either.... Lakatoi: What we think of them is un-
printable. .. .H.P.W.: Don’t know either; but Julian
Rose used to score with a Jewish piece, “Levinsky s
Wedding”—made in U.S.A Bill O’B.: To save
a Sub-editor’s soul, do give him room to dig a pen
in between your typed lines James C. Aramae:
Much obliged. It will cheer a sick man.... Hugh
G.: No new thought; and the workmanship isn’t
good enough to carry old ones in... . Eileen O.: It
doesn’t reach the Kosciuskan heights of the subject.
. ...W.E.P.: A “door”-“law” rhyme to start 12
lines with !. .. . W.S.: There’s sense in it but no
music... .Mag: Just so-50... .D.MeC.: They deserve a
paean; in fact, they deserve a lot better paean than
you supply.... D.L.S.: Now, the workmanship in a
little thing like that has to be perfect. Smooth it
and polish it and submit again.... Cocky Chaff: No
harvest estimate made at this stage is worth a dead
mouse. .. .Bcllerive: You always seem to do best in
the spring:—
....Judge: The big Hamburg firm is pretty well out
of that business now. It may still handle wild
beasts for menageries and so' on, but the zoos
of most of the world have established a sort of ex-
change to meet their own requirements. What will
probably be the last big semi-private shipment of
Australian birds for a foreign zoo left only a few
days ag0.... Aussie: The grapes are rather green
yet.... .A.K.5.8.: Afraid the interest wouldn’t carry
it n0w.... Dub lOU’s: “Quit you” is uneven....
1.M.8.: Afraid you’re going to be disappointed.
There is no sign of poetry in any of the pieces sub-
mitted. .'. .YD (and a hundred others): Please don’t
send stamps for return of unusable pars. It can’t be
done Coorarra: Ashamed of Ogilvie; but the libels
are too long to reprint. And, anyway, we can in-
vent better lies at home... .S.McB.: Not much good
telling him he’s wrong if you don’t say what’s
right-. .. .R.X.: Several are such old friends that the
others fall under suspicion. .. .J.1.G.: Look back a
bit. Methods of tanning skins were debated at
great length by the Abo. experts a few months ago
Prickly Pear: Indigestible,.. .W.S.L.: So obscure
that we wanted to sound a foghorn as we groped '
our way through it.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Muirnoon: Don’t nag at a young-, artist for not
giving you a catalogue drawing of a Rolls-Royce
radiator. Give him a Rolls-Royce as. a model. .. .
R. J. I;, Afraid it’s been used 30,000 times before
R.A.M:: You’re a beginner, but there’s one bad habit
you can drop right away—the faint-pencil habit
Harold L.: Both men have been well steam-rollered.
. ...F.J.M.: Can’t use it... .T.A,8.: Flat and wiry
figures,, . .Miss W.: Early experiments. Don’t copy
so much. Study form and proportion. A beautiful
bathing girl whose knees are delayed until her
ankles are nearly due is a sad sight. She is almost
as bad as a Madonna-like female built on the bias.
Wavy hair and long eyelashes don’t compensate....
Allies: The three figures lack animation. They look
as if they had been boiled.
THE LOVELY SPRING.
Once again the lovely Spring is coming;
To hear again the beantv, the magpie's song,
Close to my window, warbling and singing.
Cheers one’s heart the whole day long.
Not far away I can see, in the gum-tree,
Their nest they are preparing;
The lovely flowers, the humming of bees,
All seem to be a-sharing.
Yet further along in the winding creek
One need not seek, for the laugh you’ll hear;
The kookaburra, looking so lovely and sleek,
The laugh —that laugh fills one with cheer.
There on the rail is that dear little wagtail,
Darting to and fro in the lovely breeze,
Catching butterflies on the sail,
For its young, in the sweet-scented orange-trees.
Then, may we all join in with these
To rejoice and join with this joyful Spring ;
How lovely, then, to all to please—
Happiness then it would sure to bring.
A STRICKEN CONSCIENCE.
“Look there!” cried the gamester’s wife,
To the bowed and guilty one,
As she pointed to a little cot
Where lay their infant son.
The gamester knelt beside the cot,
In despair did raveth wild,
“0 God, I’d lead a better life,
For the restoration of my child.” <
“Too late!” the wretched mother 1 %roaned,
“A stricken conscience is your grief;
Fruitless is thy sad appeal—
For he’s eternal sleep.”
The gamester to he’s feet arose,
At midnight’s silent gloom,
Bent and kissed the little corpse,
And hurried from the room.
Out into the night he went,
And when a week had sped,
The waters of a flowing stream
Cast no their ghastly dead.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers aH fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads aad
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Bio; sy dDe ?-
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 22,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THIS
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Coliins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bunkers to the Government of Queensland, tinder
agreement extending to June 30. 192 T.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Geoi. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
U6n. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HIOAI) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
AmerlON, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
UMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . ... ~ ... ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund £200,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
— - - land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Btreet.'
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £562,500
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 600,000
£1,162.500
Uncalled Capital 62,500
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 90 Branclfc and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 18.
It.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Fran cisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, October 5.
R.M.S. TOPUA, from Wellington, November 2.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney Sept. 30, Oct. 28.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
ds
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181?.
f
Directors
£4,765,700
3,275,000
4,765,700
£12,806,400
.The Hon. Sir Charles It. Macltellar, It.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Biicldand. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London..
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
ds
3M‘ f 2ustra[ta
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALU GLASSES OF J
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Saving's Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
32% Intereston Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July lRt, 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
f
ds
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
•Hon. I}. E. Kater,' M.tiC.j
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sfir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
Generli. Manager :
11. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland. . > i .
London Branch: IS Birchin Lane, E.O.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughou t the world.
Shipping:.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Glad-
stone, and at Townsville for outpo'rts). ,
•Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
(Carries Ist, 2nd, and ,‘ird-class passengers. •
(Carries Ist and 2nd-class . passengers.
gCarries Ist and Srd-class passengers.
Huddart ParkeiL|s£
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LJBVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers 'desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.?. ‘jAmra,”
which connects at Suva. '
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdoriald,
Hamilton & Co.', 409 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney. I
.-*vr -: r
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
ii The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
'TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA,' ■ MACLEAY AND MANNING
I, RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, * COFF’S
: HARBOR and WOOLGOOL.GA. ' •*
j Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S.- WALES and QUEENSLAND ~-RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the' Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-2nd, £4/7/6.
. For particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
I Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.- —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY,’ LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,^
,7 Bridge 1 Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton # Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland,'Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, .Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
| Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
; Brisbane.
; New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane),
i Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
! San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
; Ports).
I Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
: London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
1 Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
; Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
: Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
: BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
1 Adelaide, Melbourne, .Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
l borough, Bmulalxfcr, Bowen and Cooktown.
\ Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


r.
:
ABBEY
SHOES!
Abbey Shoes are made on our own lasts
in the most exclusive models. They are
not only distinctive in appearance, but
they will give you the utmost in service
and comfort.
They are made in half and full sizes, and
in three fittings—narrow, medium and
wide, therefore you are assured a perfect
fit.
The boot illustrated is a high-grade
Patent Oxford Bal. Dull Calf Legs
Price . . 65/-
AII Patent. .67/6
Tan 60/-
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street, Sydney,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street.
222 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Opposite Palace Theatre.
111
fvfm a&vown
CASHS
ROVES
ES
The Best You Can Get
for Marking Linen
Whether Household or Personal —en-
sures your property against loss. Any
Name woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Always ready to be sewn
to any garment or article on any malerial
Prices— l2doz. 4/6, 6doz. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
' 673
TME
VBSINQ
kGUN
l
HAS THE
Range
AND
Pattern
OF A
10-Bore
Duck
Gun.
MADE IN ENGLAND.
32in. Siemens steel barrels, chambered for
2Jin. » cartridges—nitro. proved for the
heaviest charges—both full choke, 3-pin bar
rebounding locks; top-lever double-bolted
action, with Greener crossbolt; spring strikers,
and hammers below line of sight; weight,
7Jlb.; high, dead flat, file cut rib, straight grain
walnut stocks, superior engraving and finish.
Price £l6/16/-, with Guarantee
for 3 Years.
&S.
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Legal Notices.
mO FRANK HARCOURT RATTON
J- EVANS, son of Alfred Evans, deceased
intestate, and formerly of Mangatoro, near
Dannevirke, New Zealand, and all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
sth day of July, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of December,
1920, your claim to the estate of Alfred
Evans, deceased, who died intestate at
Christchurch in New Zealand, on the 14th
day of January, 1912, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those
entitled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 7tli day of
July, 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust.
Office, Wellington, N.Z.
mO BESSIE TAYLOR, wife of Charles
Philip Taylor, deceased intestate, and
formerly of Christchurch, New Zealand, and
all persons claiming by, through or under
her.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
sth day of July, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of December,
1920, your claim to the estate of Charles
Philip Taylor, deceased, who died intestate
at Christchurch, New Zealand, on the 15th
day of November, 1918, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled there to disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 7tli day of
July, 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust.
Office, Wellington, N.Z.
TO JOHN JOSEPH BRADSHAW,
brother of Robert George Bradshaw,
deceased, and formerly of New South Wales,
and all persons claiming .by, through or
under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
sth day of July, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of January,
1921, your claim to the estate of Robert
George Bradshaw, deceased, who died on or
about the 16th day of July, 1915, failing
which the estate will be distributed among
those entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 7th day of
July, 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust.
Office, Wellington, N.Z.
Form 130. No. 1.2986.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
T? E JOHN GREEN, late of Thursday Island, im the
State of Queensland, Petty Officer, R.AIN.,
deceased.
Notice is hereby given that all creditors and other
persons having claims against the Estate of the
abovenamed John Green, late of Thursday Island,
in the State of Queensland, deceased, who died
on or about the ninth day of March, 1920, a.d., a'fc
1 hursday Island, in the said State, are hereby \
required to send their claims to the Public Curator, \
Brisbane, on or before the tenth day of November, \
1920. And that after the expiration of the last- 1
mentioned date the Public Curator will proceed
to distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard only to
the claims of which he shall then have had notice.
Dated this ninth day of August, 1920.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
■pURSUANT to a Judgment of the Supreme Court I
of Queensland at Townsville in an action by &
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA i
LIMITED the Administrator of the lands and goods p
of CHARLES SILVER late of Cairns in the State of
Queensland Freeholder (who was bom at Reckinghall if
in the County of Suffolk England) against MARY f-j
SILVER all persons claiming to be, next of kin of
the said Charles Silver who died on the twenty-ninth 0
day of October one thousand nine hundred and nine- [
teen at Cairns aforesaid are required to come in on ,
or before nine calendar months from the date hereof :
and prove their claims at the Registry of the said
Court at Townsville and in thereof they will ~
be peremptorily excluded from the /benefit of the said %
Judgment.
Dated this Fourteenth day of (August 1920.
(n.s.) JAS. COMERFORD, Registrar. f
Messrs. Mac Donnell & Ilamlyn Harris,
Solicitors for Plaintiff, Cairns. J
Townsville Agents: Roberts Leu &} Barnett, $
Solicitors, Townsville. /.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provi&ntSociety
The Largest and Most i
Mutual Life Office in/the British Empire. (
Distributes a Cash ■ Bonus Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919* £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions toZ
Policies of about .. .. ..*.£2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. {.-£41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. ' £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class •of
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General M anager.
If any illustration appearing ill The
Bulletin takes your fancy, v, Trite ito the
Manager, who will quote you price fot it.
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
“Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS
Special School Match
M.S. Handicap
Service
Peerless
Haymarket
Hayraarket Special
Haymarket Selected
Haymarket Ex. Special
Ayro’s Handicap
Spalding’s Vantage
Spalding’s Continental
C/6
l5/6
27/6
3O-
/ 40/-
40/-, 45/-
45/-, 50/-
6O-
/
• 37/6
5O-
/ on Racket: N.S.W., 9d.; other
States. 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
Racket Repairs
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Do z.
Grey Regulation ./}) 8/(f
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion .. 2/9 33/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/- ; other
States, 1/8.)
2
mg it
\
»JLA / LM
rv
■
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, GO/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers 35 /_
Tennis Tapes 22/0
Racket Covers 2/6, G/G
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/0, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils ... .... 2/-, 2/0 coil.
f
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN'S GLOVES. Set of 4.
real leather, special value 13/6
C. 8.8., Fighting-, best tan napa, laced palms 6or 8 0z... 15/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 18/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 25/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined. 6 or
8 oz 28/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 0 or 8. oz 30/-, 35/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowv”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Setoff
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 10/-
„ Tan Leather, „ „ .... 11/6
„ very superior, „ „ ... . 12/6
„ Laced, „ 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post Bd.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about (Post 6Jd.) 17/6 pair.
MYRROHL
MADE IN
AMERICA
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums,
prevents decay, sweetens the breath, and is specially recom-
mended for Pyorrhoea sufferers. An ideal paste for Smokers.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 21d.) ; Small sample tube 1 |d., post free.
dsf
PUNCHING BALLS.
We eajry a wide range, including- the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, .... 10/6. 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45 /•
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, verv light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.... 75/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W.. 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 4/9 pr-
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels . 6/6 „
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide CB1) and “Sure Catch” 1920
Angler’s Guide (B 2). All snortsmcn should possess them. Post free to any address.
. 7*lk:£: Simmnnx/?d,
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE.


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills Banish
Backache 8 Kidney Trouble.
MRS. V. MITCHELL (from a photo).
For years I suffered
with my kidneys, causing
backache and bad head-
aches. I saw your Gin
Pills advertised and
thought I would rive
them a trial. They worked
wonders, cleared my kid-
neys, and I feel a new
woman. I used to be a
sallow color, and these
pills have cleared my skin
wonderfully. I always
got up in the morning
with a terrible headache,
and feeling very tired and
languid, but since taking
your Gin Pills these aches
have completely left me.
Any woman suffering with
liver or kidney complaint
could do nothing better
than take l)r. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills.
(Sgd.)
(Mrs.) V. MITCHELL,
Victoria Street,
Paddington, Sydney.
Makes Your Backache Quickly Disappear.
It is no longer necessary for anyone to suffer with Backache, Kidney, Bladder or
Urinary troubles, or to contend with Rheumatism or Stiff Joints, for Dr. Sheldon’s
(Jin Pills quickly remove all such troubles.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the most wonderful remedy yet devised for ridding the
system of uric acid and driving out all the poisonous impurities. They are entirely
different from all other remedies, and aet on the principle of cleansing out the
poisons and remedying the cause. No matter how long you have suffered, how old
you are, or .what you have used, the principle of Gin Pills is such that it is practically
impossible to take them into tiie human system without results. They start to work
the minute you take them, and they help you from the first time that you use-them.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, from all Chemists and Storekeepers, at 1/6, or in larger
bottles, holding more than twice the quantity, for 2/6.
r ///J
ds
f
m
.u^n-aarazEEggg
ju^FloMidetteo
5W C f-
A
ms
m r>p pnCKfiF.VHOff ROCKS FS’HOR ROCK SC S’HOkR
sschs
We Desire
to Buy
ds
PLATINUM, at £2O per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and 1 other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
23 Hunter St.,
SYDNEY.
Good-bye, Discontent!
Or more briefly but amounting to the
same thing—
All worries flee before the soothing magic of
a GBD—the perfect pipe.
London-made from genuine French briar.
Many shapes.
Sold everywhere.
BD
Guiding Marks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
was a world, a wonder-world,
A world in glory dressed,
When, like a ship with sails unfurled
Upon some golden quest.
By star and moon, and night and day,
And rise and set of sun,
My mind, dream-freighted, took its way
When Youth and I were one.
Then fair Adventure called me forth,
His voice a luring lute,
To east and west, and south and north.
On track and road and route;
For evermore, on route and road
And sunset track, there shone
A glittering gem, a goal that glowed,
A light that drew me on.
No map, nor finger-post, nor chart,
Gave guidance to my feet;
The wonder-ways I knew by heart,
And, sure of foot and fleet,
With head upheld and joyance shod,
Dream-light around me thrown,
I trod, and none beside me trod,
For they were mine alone.
The morning lights on land and sea,
The lights new come to birth,
Filled full my soul with ecstasy,
Uplifting me from earth;
The glow of sunsets, rich and clear,
Made cloud and peak divine;
The seeing eye, the hearing ear
Undimmed by years, were mine.
Romance, that moulds the common clay
And gives it glory, told
Of secret treasuries, where lay
Heaped hoards of fairy gold;
To cove and quay, to port and slip.
Came ships from Fancy’s realm ;
And Mystery captained every ship,
Adventure at her helm.
The roving foot may roving go
From isle to isle, nor find
The heights, the deeps, the gleam, the glow,
That greet the roving mind ;
And careless then of time or tide,
Or cares that clutch and cling,
With Vision ever as my guide
I went a-voyaging.
Those days were good ; alas, those days
With all their dreams, are done,
For all their ways were golden ways
When Youth and I were one!
And now with shackled feet I fare
By road or route or coast;
The map is there, the chart is there,
And there the finger-post!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Backwash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JIM STRUTT lowered himself stiffly to
the comparative shelter- of a scrub-
pocket and crouched there in shiver-
ing discomfort. A -bare chain distant the
wind-lashed waters of the Southern Ocean
stormed the narrow width of the foreshore.
The noise of it was like the bellowing of
giants. That and the slam of the wind over-
head filled Strutt’s ears with indescribable
discord. His bones ached with the cold.
His eyes smarted from contact with the sand
drawn upwards in the vortex of the hurricane
and flung broadcast through the air like
pepper from a pot. Above the crest of the
low knoll at his back hung a greyish mist —
the tortured breath exhaled by the laboring
waves. At times the rush of the wind lifted
the curtain of fog almost bodily aloft, so
that beneath its ragged edge one
for a second the black anger of the horizon
beyond.
Glad of the respite, Strutt reached into a
pocket for his pipe. With fingers made awk-
ward by the cold he filled the well-burnt
bowl, cursing at his ineffectual attempts to
ignite the damp tobacco.- So great was the
suck of the wind that he had to cast himself
at full length on the ground and scoop a
pocket in the sandy bottom before he could
hold the flame of a match long enough, for
his purpose. More than ever he regretted
the impulse that had drawn him from the
warm shelter of his tent to brave the
weather to no purpose. In all his half-mile
of wallaby snares not one had been sprung.
At the end of ten minutes Strutt stood
up and shook himself like a dog. Scaling
the side of the knoll he halted a second to
gaze on the churning sands at his feet. As
he did so a curious thing occurred. A sea-
gull, with feathers awry and wings sagging,
dropped from the mist before him as if pro-
pelled earthwards by some invisible hand.
The bird fell in a bed of yellow spume, and
was instantly caught in the undertow and
whirled out to sea. Strutt saw that in some
manner it was badly injured. It rode the
water heavily, with one wing trailing across
the foam. He had the briefest view of it;
then it was gone. A second later, however,
it reappeared almost directly beneath him.
A ninth wave had caught and flung it into
the shallows. He saw it struggling patheti-
cally against the swiftly-moving flood. Then
the water receded, overflowing the crumpled
body, rolling it over and over, tossing it this
way and that, pounding it to extinction in
the savage swelter of the backwash. The
scene vanished in a thick blanket of return-
ing mist.-
A resentful thought stirred vaguely at
the back of Strutt’s mind as he turned away,
lie seemed to find something analogous be-
tween his own life and that of the broken-
winged bird whose tiny existence had ceased
so utterly. He told himself that it might
have won through if it hadn’t been for the
backwash. Strutt characterised the anan-
as stiff luck. He knew from experience how
expressive the phrase was. lie had seen
more than one man overcome at the very
moment of victory by some wave of unfore-
seen circumstance that bore down on him
like a flood and washed him back into the
pit.
He set himself steadily against the wind
and sleet. It was raining hard again, and
his thick boots squelched at every stride over
the sodden ground. Strutt moved briskly,
his body swinging powerfully from side to
side as he went. For all his 50 years he
was still a man to reckon with in a rough
and tumble. He was vastly proud of his
strength, and took every occasion to remind
himself of it. Just now, however, his primi-
tive intelligence was concerned to define the
thought which had come to him. Strutt
did not know what metaphor was. But \t
was to metaphor he turned in an attempt
to give his thoughts final expression.
“I reckon I’m like that,” he muttered
as he topped the slight rise overlooking his.
camp. “Just a damned old broken-winged
gull.”
lie was annoyed to find that he could not
shake off the remembrance of what he had
seen. The fact that the bird was dead
troubled him hot at all. It was the vast
loneliness of its going that stirred him.
Strutt himself was very much alone. His
wife had died years back. His one daughter
had married and gone to settle in Maoriland.
His one son had struck out for himself.
Strutt had not heard of him for five years.
In a way he scarcely expected ever to hear
of him again, lie had just enough imagina-
tion to regret that the relations between them
had been far from happy. When a man
found himself getting old he realised more
than ever what it meant to have a grown
son.
Within a few yards of his tent Strutt
came to an abrupt stop, his senses suddenly
acute. ■, A saddled horse was made fast to
an overhanging branch. Of the rider there
was no sign.
Quickly Strutt considered. He had rea-
sons —excellent reasons —for wishing to
avoid his fellows. At the same time he was
wet and chilled, and longed intensely fen-
fire and food. He decided to chance it.
A quiet-looking man, wearing a brown
sac suit and felt hat, rose to his feet as
Strutt pulled aside the flap of hessian that
carried over from the end of the tent to form
a rough cover for the bark skillion where he
did his cooking. For a moment the two
men eyed each other in silence. Then the
stranger, with a little explanatory wave of
his hand, passed the time of day.
“I was in danger of another soaking, but
fortunately came across your camp. I was
glad to get under cover. I hope you don’t
mind.”
‘‘lt’s all right,” said Strutt, but without
cordiality. lie stepped past to the rough
hearth and busied himself about making a
fire. The stranger, somewhat awkwardly,
resumed his seat. He did not offer to speak
again until Strutt’s preparations for a meal
were almost completed.
“Still raining hard.” he ventured.
Strutt looked at him quickly. “It’ll fine
up after a time.” He paused undecidedly;
then added: “Where are you bound for?”
“I’m just riding through,” said the
stranger non-committally.
“You might have picked a better day for
it,” said Strutt. He swung the spluttering
billy off the fire.
“As you say,” returned the other man.
“Still. I'm used to roughing it.” He broke
the little pause that followed by volunteer-
ing quietly: “My name’s Ilandry, by the
way.”
Before lie quite realised it Strutt had
answered the implied question.
“Mine’s Strutt.” He looked at the food
spread on the rough packing-case table.
“You’ll have a bite to eat, of course?”
“No, thanks,” said Ilandry, unexpectedly.
Strutt shrugged his shoulders, but, did not
press the invitation. He began to eat —
not in his usual ravenous manner, but slowly,
with a frown puckering his heavy forehead.
Handry’s refusal to join in the meal made
him slightly uneasy. From time to time he
shot little, suspicious glances at the other
man’s impassive face, wondering in his dull,
unimaginative mind if he was not mistaken
in believing that they had never met before.
He wished the rain would stop.
Under the influence of the warming fire,
Handry’s manner began to thaw a little. His
deep voice suddenly broke in on Strutt’s
thoughts.
“I saw a queer thing down there on the
coast awhile back.”
Strutt gave unwilling attention.
“Yes, as queer as I’ve seen. There were
some gulls sheltering on the cliffs —five or
six of them, I should say. You know what
the wind has been —something to talk about,
eh? Well, there came a sudden burst, a
kind of a line-storm. It missed me by about
a chain, but hit that ledge of birds fair
and square. You never saw anything like
it. It must have caught them right in its
core —you know a wind like that has a kind
of revolving fdfanel at its centre. Nothing
on earth could live through a smashing like
that. The gulls vanished for a moment —
I don’t know where they went. But presently
one lit stone-dead at my feet, and I picked up
two more at the base of the cliff. The wings
were pretty near twisted off them, and their
necks were broken. Talk about sudden
death!”
“Ah!” said Strutt. He looked at Handry
queerly. The corners of his mouth were
twitching a little.
“You don’t believe it?” asked Handry
abruptly.
Quite suddenly Strutt broke into violent
irritation. He thrust his plate from him
and rose to his feet.
“To Hell with the gulls!” he said. “If
you want to talk, why don’t you talk of
something sensible?”
(Continued on next page.)


YOUR BACK
m
<r
m
8
a j to
GIVING OUT?
Thcit bad back is probably due to weak kidneys, a
trouble that often follows a cold, a fever, worry or over-
work. It shows in constant, dull, throbbing backache, or
sharp twinges when stooping or lifting. You have head-
aches, too, dizzy spells, a tired nervous feeling and
irregular kidney action. Don’t neglect it—there is danger
of dropsy, gravel or serious kidney disease. It is usually
easy to correct these early troubles, however, and avoid
the more dangerous ailments by giving the kidneys
Use DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
rrLLb. Thousands have saved themselves
kidney ills by timely use of DOAN’S.
serious
Mrs. E. Wilkinson, 29 Campbell Street, St. Peters, Sydney,
says: “For some time I suffered agony from lumbago-like pains
across the small of my back. These pains prevented me from
bending or getting proper rest at night, and seriously hampered me
vvhen attending to my household duties. Sometimes I was so bad
that I could hardly move, and if I tried to get about the house the
pam was almost unbearable. After trying all sorts of remedies
without success, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice, so I got some, and they did me good almost at once.
After taking two bottles of these pills I was ever so much better,
and eight bottles completely cured me. That was twelve months
ago, and I have been well ever since. I always keep a bottle of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the bouse and take a dose
occasionally, and they keep me in splendid health.”
Eight years later Mrs. Wilkinson says:—“l have been free
from backache since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me nine
years ago.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, Sutherland Street, Mascot, Sydney, says
Some months ago I was suddenly .seized with a terrible pain across
my back, just above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought
at nrst it would, but, on the contrary, it got worse, and I was soon
so bad that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled,
and even at night I got very little rest from the constant pain. I
could not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact no position
was comfortable for long. My secretions were affected, being thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I tried different remedies, but
they gave me no relief whatever. One day a friend suggested
I should take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it proved to be
good advice, too, for three bottles cured me completely, driving the
pam out of my back, regulating the secretions and banishing every
other distressing symptom of kidney disorder. I feel splendid now,
and my recovery is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.” ’
' .
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Disregarding Handry’s evident surprise he
sat down again and commenced to fill his
pipe. In spite of all he could do the image
of the dead seagull would persist in obtrud-
ißg itself on his mind. All along the thing
had lain at the back of his brain, as it
were; but now the thought was intensified.
be chance narration of this stranger seemed
suddenly to outrage his sense of security.
It was absurd ; but there it was. lie found
himself eyeing Ilandry more closely, and
for the first time was aware of a certain
sternness in the man’s voice and bearing.
Strutt’s anger gave place to a kind of cold
caution.
Ilandry, with a muttered word of placa-
te, had gone to the Hap of the skillion.
It was still raining, but more easily now.
In an attempt to glimpse the sky he bent
under the sapling-rail to which the bag
cover was made fast. As he did so the tail
of his coat was displaced by a spur of the
wood. He shook himself free in a second ;
but not before Strutt had seen. Around
Handry’s waist was a broad leather belt.
Between it and the band of his trousers
appeared a semi-circular rim of shining
steel, and the polished gleam of a link and
swivel. In that one terrific second Strutt
knew.
Ilandry turned in time to see Strutt
settling back on his seat with a light sport-
ing rifle held across his knees. He affected
to be about to clean the weapon. He was
turning it this way and that, but always
with the barrel pointing towards Ilandry.
I lie eyes of the two men met.
To Ilandry also revelation had come. The
expression in Strutt’s eyes instantly con-
firmed his suspicions. He knew beyond doubt
that this was the man he had come so far
to seek. ID raged inwardly at the indeci-
sion which had kept him from immediate
action, at the chance happening which had
told Strutt exactly who Ilandry was and
what he wanted. Ilandry was' in a tight
corner. He did not dare reach for the revol-
ver that rested beneath his armpit. ,
Strutt, too, was thinking—thinking with
all the cunning of his animal brain. He
knew that for both of them fate hung in
the balance. If this policeman tried to take
him he would shoot. There was no other
way of escape. They would hang him, any-
how. And this way be had a chance. A
better chance than that damned gull down
there on the shore —Hell take the bird ! Was
he never to shake off thought of it? A
dead gull, or a dead man, more or less—
what did it matter? One had as much right
to live as another.
“I’d like to tell you a story,” said Ilandry,
again unexpectedly. His face was a little
white, but his voice gave no hint of the
strain he was feeling.
“Will it take long?” asked Strutt. He
was smiling in a strangely distorted manner.
“Not long,” said Ilandry. He made as
if to move closer, but there was a sudden
tremor of the rifle in Strutt’s hands.
“I’m not going to move,” said Ilandry
quietly. Danger had quickened his percep-
tions. He was calling all his wits to help
him to a correct understanding of Strutt’s
temperament. With all his soul he was
praying to be granted something of the dra-
matic genius of the fellow-oflicer who had
first acquainted him with the facts. The
narration had been peculiarly shocking.
“Go on,’’ said Strutt watchfully. So far
lie had shown no sign of his intention. It
was remarkable how both men held to the
pretence.
“There was a man named Jim Fagin,”
said Ilandry slowly. “He lived at Hobart.
I never met him; but from all accounts he
wasn t too bad a sort —at least, when he
was sober. His trouble was that he couldn’t
leave the drink alone. The shame of it
killed his wife, they say, and drove his son
from home. When he was drunk, you see,
he did things he would never have dreamt
of other times. He used to drink himself
stone-crazy. That’s the curse of it.”
Strutt was silent, but his eyes blinked
once or twice rapidly.
Handry moistened his dry lips and re-
sumed :
“As I said, Fagin was quite alone. When
his son cleaned out Fagin came up 'to
Hobart and got work on the wharfs. Most
of the time he went straight. But now and
again his old enemy got him and laid him
under. It’s a hell of a thing, drink.”
He paused a second time. But still Strutt
said nothing.
‘ O ue night there came a party of firemen
from one of the inter-State boats. They
were going the rounds, hitting things to
pieces as men will when they get off the
chain a spell. They were all drunk. And
-they got into an argument with Fagin and
some of his mates. There was a set-to in
the dark street. Fagin got into holts with
one of them on the kerb. They were fight-
iiifr with sticks, road metal, anything they
could lay their hands on. Fagin hit this
man on the head with a bottle —hit him hard.
I don’t suppose he meant to kill him ; but
that’s what happened. The man’s skull was
caved in. He died there on the sidewalk.
I agin cleared. But he went too soon. There
was something he never know —God help
him !”
Strutt’s lips were curled back in a kind
of fixed snarl. The finger on the trigger of
tin' gun was slowly tightening.
“Have you finished?” he asked hoarsely.
Handry took a quick breath, llis eyes
never left Strutt’s face.
“Not quite.” For the fraction of a minute
he hesitated. Then he spoke with a curious
tremor in his suddenly-lowered voice.
“James Fagin, I arVest you fpr the mur-
der—of your own son !”
He closed his eyes, waiting for the shot.
It never came. Strutt’s face was livid ; he
was shaking like a man with the palsy. He
never moved when Handry reached quietly
over and took the rifle from him. Only at
the cold kiss of the handcuffs as they snapped
on his wrists he seemed to stir dreamily.
Ilis mouth opened, and he looked up at
Handry as if wondering at his nresence. He
spoke a few words in a queer, hesitating
voice.
“Like a damned old broken-winged gull!”
said Jim Strutt, better known as Jim Fagin.
BERNARD CRONIN.
The Sacrifice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was hot. The sergeant’s shirt was
damp with perspiration. His tunic
hung over the back of a chair and he
swore at the battalions of flying-ants which
were leaving numberless casualties on the
ink-stained office-table under the electric-
light.
From the stifling night outside came the
strains of music of an open-air picture-
show. Like an undertone of the sea the
mine batteries droned a mile off. A chug,
chug, chug came from a gas-engine at the
small electric-light plant on the other side
of a vacant allotment.
When Trooper James entered the sergeant
laid down his pen, peered over his spectacles
and said, “Shut the door.” Then, in an
undertone, “I want you in the morning,
James. Be at the stables at «. It’s an
arrest. Gold-stealing again. First case
we’ve had for months. It’s Johnson. You
know him. Used to play football. Got
married in the East the other day. The
stuff was in his house. We’ll get him as
he comes off the night-shift to-morrow, see.
lie might have some more on him. llis
wife came in to-day and laid the information.
It’s a dead-cert. case. No, you won’t want
your horse. We’ll walk up. Good night.”
The sergeant finished the report he was
writing and walked out on to the verandah.
The hot, star-strewn night was silent, save
for the chug, chug of the engine behind him
and the distant roar of the stamps. lie was
wondering what on earth could have pos-
sessed a woman to give information against
her husband. He pondered, sighed and gave
it up.
Before he went to bed he carefully placed
in the small office safe a bundle of sacking,
after first running his fingers through the
small pieces of spangled telluride it con-
tained.
* * * *
Out of the night came the roar of stamps.
In the murk over the flats, star-crowned, the
yellow lights twinkled and the blurred loom
of the mine workings was as some giant
monster growling over its prey. The night
close and still, seemed to hold its breath to
listen. In the little house over the flats
it alone heard the sound of a woman’s sobs.
After a time they ceased.
A white face gazed up at the stars from
a tangle of dishevelled hair and the damp
pillows of the bed on which she had thrown
herself fully clad. Her thoughts were run-
mng over all the hideousness of the past
week of her life. A hundred times she had
gone over in her memory the impulse that
had moved her to lift the loosened plank in
the kitchen floor. There had been a bundle
of sacking there, and out of the dull grey
stones that it contained had shone knobs and
flakes of yellow.. She had knelt as though
stunned. Stories of gold thieves were
familiar to her. Eight months in a gold-
mining town had taught her the nonchalance
with which the frequent arrests were viewed
by her neighbors—even by Jim himself.
”Y\hat of it?’ he had asked in response to
her surprise. “They give away their lives
down there for a crust. Why shouldn’t the
poor beggars have some jam to go with it?
Yes, I know I am a shift boss, but I’m a
man just the same.”
She had been dismayed ; she had half won-
dered whether he was joking. She had said
nothing. But with the sackcloth bundle
in her shaking hands and the yellow metal
winking up at her malevolently, she had
understood.
Out of six days of hell had come her re-
solve. When Jim came back to her they
would go away together and live down the
past and its stain.
* * * *
The morning train crawled past the level
crossing below the mines and Trooper James
and the sergeant walked over the metals
behind it. They went quietly and unob-
trusively amongst the stream of day-shift men
with billies and crib-bags in their hands.
The men coming off night-shift had not yet
commenced to appear.
Suddenly the sergeant uttered an exclama-
tion. The plat they were approaching was
surrounded by a crowd of men. The group
parted and a lifeless form was carried awav
to the ambulance-room. The two officers
broke into a run. Those on the outskirts
of the crowd saw them/ coming, just ns
another man was being carried from the cage.
One of the bystanders answered the ser-
geant’s unspoken inquiry. “A full at the
1800 ft. level, Sergeant,” he said.
The sergeant glanced at the still form that
was carried past them, strapped to the
stretcher, and then he turned away. “We
are too late, James,” lie said. He spoke
very gently. Policemen are often human.
* * * *
The house over the flats stood empty.
A little man alighted from the motor
which stopped at the gate. He was followed
by another less neatly dressed. Together
they walked into the front garden, innocent
of greenery of any kind. The empty win-
dows looked mournfully out on a desolate
landscape. In each was stuck a large notice
informing the world at large, and the barren,
willy-nilly swept flat in particular, that the
place was for sale.
The owner of the house walked on to the
verandah. Then a thought semed to strike
him. He entered the front room and passed
into the kitchen. Outside he left the agent
busily taking down particulars in a note-
book. By himself in the empty kitchen
the owner was thinking aloud.
I oughtn’t have left those specimens
there,” he muttered. “If/they’d been found
they might easily have meant trouble for
poor old Jim.”
He stooped and pulled up the un-nailed
plfmk. The bundle of sackcloth was gone!
Over the flat the broad back of the mon-
ster on the rise was smudged with smoke.
A breeze was blowing and the roar had died
down to a purr.
L. C. R.


ms
m
m ; " = «
.
mm
V i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
f
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies,
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JAUR AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
681 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.IV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian' Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
S3
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, nd petrol even
for starting); starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4,5, 6| and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET. BRISBANE.
(Trams pass near by.) Works—Yeerongpilly. [2
Bml
&
8
motor Lorries
Good Things Come to Him Who Waits.
N° n " u n f d no 'T accept a substitute because of the
Den by factory being requisitioned for the war. You
again can obtain the right Lorry for your own
particular needs. An unprecedented stream of orders
immediately upon the announcement of the Armistice shows
buy a Wl Denby rChaSerS PrefelTed '° Wait until th W couW
Load capacities: I, 2,2 J, 3J, 5 tons.
THE HALLIDAY ENGINEERING rn
’Phone: Oity 4399. 70 ™*»
79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
"A SUR£ SHISUD”
—a reliable protection—against the attacks of indigestion is to be
found in Beecham’s Pills. Confirmation of this comes from all parts
of the world. The long record and the high reputation of this success-
ful preparation should inspire every confidence in those who have yet
to take it for the first time. Beecham’s Pills bring speedy relief to
those suffering from lassitude, biliousness, sick headache, constipa-
tion, poor appetite and other signs of stomach trouble. Furthermore
if these pills are taken from time to time even when there is freedom
from any special ailment or indisposition, they will greatly assist in
maintaining fitness and condition thus proving “ a sure shield ”
against the attacks of that great enemy of the general health—
Indigestion. Preserve your strength and vigour by using
BUCHAN'S
PIU.S
Sold in boxes, labelled 10id., ls-l£d and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
RUPTURE\
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If
y illustration appearing in The
takes your fancy, write to the
who will quote you price for it.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think out
schemes which will bring success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigue. Headache, Las-
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head-
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’s Littltt
Liver Pills, the
Great Liver Invig-
<»ra tdtJJ'L h ou saßd j
dsf
CARTER*
fds
IVER
PILLS
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meal*. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prioe,
GENUINE must
bear signature
f
22?- -St _ j
1
'HUSa
aS^MSSsM
“IK
liffliiiwS
•«■ V
l!ll(
wi-
fe
Remington,
38 & 44 Cal. Rifles
and Cartridges
There is a demand among sportsmen for a
rifle of medium size and price, yet with the
requisite shocking power to effectually “stop”
the game. The Remington eleven-shot re-
peater 38-40 and 44 calibre —is invaluable
for general use. Accurate up to 300 yards.
for Shooting Righi;
Inquire of your dealer; who
can order for you. Cat-
alogues free upon request*
dsf
ds
C-1
REMINGTON ARMS UMC
D. B. Bryant, Australian Representative
COMPANY
Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
P 5
S'
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
Drawn OCTOBER 30, 1920.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
Yj l ® last year was won by A. O. and J. 0. Paxton,
ot Cairns, Queensland, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
get a ticket and have a CHANCE FOR 1920.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in The Bulletin on
Thursday, November 4, 1920. To any person 'forwarding
stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
Jn ol j tt YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
12/6
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
{Patented)
1
•- £
BHHi
12/6
each
Post free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
f
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE . * *


l%ier Lalor
ero 03
r»
ixre
o
a
m
M
A
■j
- ’ . % A wt
)& •« i
■m . a
I HI illl ■ 1 apf fi lif
Jy. "
:
;• 1 < jMS ■ -V j
iHO‘
m
m
A
A
. ■ ■■■ '-::
;f
.. 8
\
i
“ r
\ T
JL J
r ....j
:
H
gwa
■
,-.: : ®..
j®
■
■
>
: .V* *£ «*r Vj
•x
v : - x :
|; - ;
' MHBaMfft
■■ 4*2
S-. i m
..,, *»«3S
w
■
\:A
-► * *• If
-v
'
:
:
X, V
JIM
i ■
m
t
, '• .
il
■niMHHi i .asi
2 Spy-*- l
■
THIS drawing represents Peter Lalor as he was at the time of the
man in his twenty-seventh year. There can be no doubt that, of
tyrannical official administration*on the goldfields, Lalor was the
represented as a hot-headed Irishman who was for a fight,”
and physical, courage, he felt bitterly the degrading and harsh methods
and only when protest after protest had failed to obtain any redress
to impossible injustice by armed force. He was the son of a former
Dublin, and a civil-engineer by profession.
Messrs. Brinds Pty. and Company, Limited, of Ballarat, distillers
away six pictures having to do with the famous Eureka Stockade
Australian soil. The fight at Eureka hardly counts for as much, for
distinct epoch in the struggle for Australian Democracy, and is, therefore,
by the Smith and Julius studios, and are fine works of art. There is no
to possess the set to write to Messrs Brinds, at Ballarat (Vic.), enclosing
Eureka Stockade outbreak at Ballarat, in December, 1854—a young
those who were leaders in the famous protest against an iniquitous and
most able, the strongest and the most honest. He has sometimes been
but nothing could be further from the truth. A man of equal moral
adopted towards himself and his fellow diggers by the local authorities,
of grievances too intolerable to be borne, did he countenance resistance
member of the House of Commons, a graduate of Trinity College,
of the well-known brands of Brinds Whisky and Brinds Gin, are giving
episode of 1854—which is the only battle that has ever been fought on
instance, as the Battles of the Marne or the Somme—but it marks a
of the greatest interest to Australians. The drawings have been executed
advertising matter on them, and it is only necessary for those who wish
stamps to the value of sixpence for postage, in order to obtain them.
Insist upon Brinds WhisKy &. Gin
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
