

■■
if SsSMI
n
\
m
i
n
n
wmm
swasassr^s
*)
..
Do not remain a Clerk
DY taking one of the recognised professional
diplomas which are open by examination to all
men engaged in business life, you secure a qualifi-
cation which gives you a defined professional status
—with remuneration accordingly.
Degrees are issued by the following'Societies:
Commonwealth Institute of Accountants, L.I.C.A.
Federal Institute of Accountants, A.F.I.A.
Australasian Institute of Secretaries, A.A.I.S.
Chartered Institute of Secretaries, A.C.I.S.
The possession of these diplomas will put you
in the front rank and® qualify you for executive
positions such as
Accountant
Manager
Auditor
Cost Accountant
Cashier
Works Manager
Office Manager
General Manager, etc.
Every ambitious man or woman engaged in
business is eligible for one or other of these valuable
diplomas. Undejr our system of teaching there is
no interference with your present duties—and the
cost is within the reach of anyone.
A few hours study a week, with de-
termination on your part, and before
you realise it, you will be qualified.
You should learn all about these qualifications,
the examinations and how to enter for them, our
course and what we can do for you.
Write or call to-day for our explanatory
“Guide” 80 pages—Free and without any
obligation to enrol.
w&w
147
QUALIFICATION
'"ACCOUNTANCY
OPENS THE DOOR TO
A SUCCESSFUL CAREER
E
HEMINGWAY
& ROBERTSON
Accountancy Spec/a/tsts
ABERDEEN HOUSE.S2B COLLINS ST.,MELBOURNE
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, MOORE ST.,SYDNEY
UNION BUILDINGS. CUSTOMS ST..AUCKLAND
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2113.
Thursday, August 12, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by lost as a Kevtspaper.


c T ?E NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt
£lOO REWARD!
DIGGERS! SEARCH YOUR POCKETS!!
“THE EVERLASTIN’ BALLADS.”
The sum of fifty pounds for each missing Ballad will be paid
to the first person who forwards to the undersigned the words,
or any portion, of two “War Ballads” written about 1916:
“THE BLACK SWAN RIVER,”
“THE EVERLASTING FLOWER,”
in such a form as will enable the author to reconstruct the verses.
C. J. DeGARIS, MILDURA, Victoria.
who is acting for the author. '
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-
(Without Clip)
USE
SWAN
INK
i
r A.:
>
£*a
39
wav ink
l^fhnMn
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
MM
The All
F /
IS.
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The High Clearance and Cong Wheelbase are just
two features that help to make the STANDARD
TIGHT CAR—THE Car for the Overseas Owner-
driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agent:
Coventry, England.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE SEARCH FOR THE BONZER TART,”
By “Hamer,” so well known to “Bulletin” readers.
“Hamer” is without doubt the most vigorous of Australian writers, and this book contains his best
known work and several stories never before published.
The Bulletin says “The stories are full of quiet humor showing much skill in construction. The
telling is breezy. There is pathos, too, in the yarns.”
ALL BOOKSELLERS, 1/6; POSTED, 1/7.
Publisher: A. C. SANDFOIID, 41 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions a?« most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the meet powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Being destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
thsy keep the mouth in a sweat, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states" Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth, This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote."
1/6 a Tin.
dfg
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lung/.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention of
Consumption.
The Red Page
Gallipoli from the Inside
r>- In Hamilton’s revealing Gallipoli
Diary (Edward Arnold, London) the author
stands out primarily as that rather rare
bird, an officer and a gentleman. He is full
of. ancient culture and kindly feelings and
chivalrous impulses. He is trustful and
loa l h t 0 wound - He belongs to the
19UU or Boer-war vintage: an era when
fools—and particularly well-born fools —
were suffered much more patiently by
s than they came to be in 1917. One
or the facts which emerge clearly from this
human and vivid document is that the man
who was ordained by the Army seniority
system to punch his way to Constantinople
was about 50 per cent, fighting-man and 50
per cent, society figure and litterateur. He
tried hard to get Rupert Brooke to come on
his staff—not as a helpful soldier, but as
a poet: “the most distinguished of the
Georgians.” And one gathers that he felt
the loss of this militarily unimportant char-
acter more than that of Bridges, who, like
Gouraud, was probably “worth a brigade”
to him. There are endless friendly refer-
ences to Reggie So-and-So and Scatters
Somebody-else (King’s Messengers, A.D.C.’s,
etc.), but comparatively few to 'the men who
were doing the fighting on shore. His tri-
butes to the latter are, nevertheless, gener-
ous, but his interest in them was impersonal.
He remarks of Birdwood : “I know.... how
much of his strength lies in his personal
touch and presence.” But he never knew,
evidently, liow much of his own weakness,
for the purposes of this campaign, lay in
his own lack of such things.
It is hard to believe that these two
volumes, with their wealth of allusive
imagery and poetic feeling, were dashed to-
gether from day to day. while men died
hideously _in view of the writer and the
Queen Elizabeth’s 15-in. shells roared across
to Sedd-el-Bahr. One passage on Sleep
seems fairly to reek of the lamp. It is hard
also to believe that the story wasn’t edited
later on to make it fit in with the closing
scenes of the great Peninsula drama. Prom
the first mention of the name of “Freddv
Stopford” (Lt.-General the Hon. Sir
Frederick Stopford, who was returned to
England after the Suvla Bay disaster) an
atmosphere of impending doom descends on
the narrative, while Keith Murdoch appears
m the r6le of comic villain at a very early
stage. If General Hamilton had been gifted
with prevision of the sort which the Diary
indicates there should have been no evacua-
tion.
When his remarks about Murdoch were
cabled to Austrafia last May many thought
nVi at 7,. Jol V' n ?,li s t bad misused his powers.
Ifte Uatlipoh Diary proves that, however or
wherever Murdoch got his facts, they were
not far short of the dreadful truth. What
was it that the General objected to in these
revelations? That the Tommies on the
, en insula were a poor lot, on the whole, and
that many of their officers were “childish
youths without strength to endure or brains
to improve their conditions”; that Sir John
Maxwell and General Spens were second-
raters, and that even Birdwood lacked “the
big bram of a great general” ; that Kitchener
had a terrible task in getting pure work
from general staff”; and that the Turk
was a better man than those opposed to
them — meaning ’ co urse, the majority of
Well, what are the facts? General Spens,
an amiable old man whose most conspicu-
ous feature was his enormous moustache,
saw the Gallipoli fighting through, as G.O.C.
Gairo District, at Shepheard’s, and was con-
sistently weak wherever strength was
demanded. Maxwell, almost untested in
Lgypt, definitely betrayed his ineptitude
as an administrator in Ireland later on.
Hamilton did not think Birdwood a big
enough man to take Suvla in hand after
otopford s failure there. “Spread his powers
too wide, he wrote in August, 1915. “and
he loses that touch” (i.e., his personal touch).
As regards the moral of at least some of
the British units, consider these extracts*
from the Diary itself:—
At 4.30 p.m. a letter [from Stopford] anent the
Kitni the ' 53r ? vision—depressing in itself,
out still more so in its inferences as to the 54th
Division. He says “these troops showed no attack-
‘'U a lh They did not come under heavy
shell-fire nor was the rifle-fire very severe, but they
not only showed no dash in attack, but went back
at very slight provocation, and went back a long
way. Lots of the men lay down behind cover, etc.
lhey went on when called upon to do so by Staff
and other officers, but they seemed lost and under
no leadership.”
And further on :
I am sure they [the Territorials] would not
secure the hills with any amount of guns, water
and ammunition, assuming ordinary opposition, as
the attacking spirit is absent, chiefly owing to the
want of leadership by the officers.
After an interview with Stopford and Reed:
r ,V e . y cou , nt the 53rd Division as finished: the
. 4th incapable of attack ; the rest of the 9th Corps
immovable.... These stories about the troops! Ido
not accept them. The troops have lost heavily,
but they are right if there were leaders. I know
quite well both Territorial divisions. I knew them
in England, that is to say. Since then thev have
had their eyes picked out. They have been through
the strainer and the best officers and men and the
best battalions have been serving for months past in
Franee. Yet even so they’d fight right enough
and keen enough if they were set fair and square
at their fence.
So much- for the Tommy officers and men
available. But, then, General Hamilton
also deprecates Murdoch’s “appreciation in
burning terms of the spirit, the achieve-
ments, the physique and soldierly qualities”
of the Anzacs. Here, however, are some suffi-
ciently warm comments of his own:—
Even as Godley was holding forth messages came
to hand to say that the Turks were passing from
the defensive to the offensive, and urging fresh
attacks on the New Zealanders holding Chunuk
Bair. Godley is certain the Turks will never make
us quit hold.
Took leave of the Anzacs and the Anzac generals
about 4.80 p.m. The whole crowd were in tip-top
spirits and immensely pleased with the freedom and
largeness of their newly-conquered kingdom. We
of.the G.H.Q. were bitten by this same spirit.
The great Turkish attack timed by all our spies
for the 23rd has never come off, but, as showing
the fine spirit which animates the Anzacs, it is
worth noting that on that day not one soul
reported sick. They would not go near the doctors
for fear they might be made to miss a battle.
At Anzac, the most formidable entrenchment of
the Turks, “Lone Pine,” wa3 stormed yesterday
evening by the Australian Ist Brigade'; a desperate,
fine feat.
Page 80 (Vol. II) :
Birdwood thinks Chunulc Bair should be safe.
Page 86: —
Chunuk Bair has gone! The New Zealand and
New Army troops holding the knoll were relieved
by two New Army battalions, and, at daylight
this morning the Turks simply ran amok among
them.... The Turks have lost their fear of Stopford
and concentrated full force against the Anzacs.
lit the field men argue from the particular
to the general: it is the only way they can
argue. Chained to a few hundred yards of
front .they see strangers yield up ground
winch their comrades died to gain, and in
4 ei f*. ra Se they say bitter things—the sort
or things that General Hamilton took excep-
tion to as “camp gossip’’ in Murdoch’s
report. But no Australian has anywhere
at any tjme levelled deadlier criticism at
British troops than is set down in cold print
in the Gallipoli Diary; and sensible Aus-
tralians are agreed about the wonderful
qualities of such divisions as the 29th. Where
is the grievance—unless the proposition is
accepted that only the English may tell the
truth about the English?
Hamilton’s difficulties were evidently enor-
mous. He never had enough munitions.
Not a soul in England outside the Ordnance
r „™'. 1 . believe, that, barring the guns of the
« 9 th Division and the few guns of the Anzacs, our
v'L a, 1 ,11e . 1 7. coris i s ts of the old 15-pounders, relics
ot South Africa, and of sin. hows, some of them
Omdurman veterans.
When he asked for a young corps com-
mander, of a good, stiff constitution. - ’ the
seniority fetich stepped in, and he was given
the choice between two old friends—Ewart
and Stopford. He wrote to Kitchener:—
, re P l ; d , to Ewart - . I greatly admire his
character, but he positively could not have made
his way along the fire trenches I inspected yester-
a ?y- " e T ha , s never approached troops for 15 years,
although 1 have often implored him, as a friend,
to do so. ’
Stopford was sent. The story of his almost
incredible vacillation and lack of nerve is
told in- detail:—
I said to Stopford, “We must occupy the heights
at once. It is imperative we get Ismail Oglu
lepe and Tekke Tepe now!” To this he raised
objections... . I-lis generals had told him their men
were too tired.
Next day Hamilton found Stopford busy
supervising the building of splinter-proof
huts for himself and staff. “He was
absorbed in the work, and he said that it
would be well to make a thoroughly good
job of-the dugouts, as we should probably
be there for a very long time.” Two days
later Stopford “agreed to have a dart at
Kavak Tepe.” Next day he postponed the
effort for 24 hours. (Kavak Tepe was a
position overlooking the Dardanelles
the Anafarta Ridge.) Hamilton waited
24 hours—thus losing the campaign and pro-
longing the war for perhaps two or three
years—-and then cabled to the Secretary of
State for War:—
There is nothing for it but to allow Stopford and
his Divisional Generals time to rest and reorganise,
unless I force them to undertake a general action
for whioh m their present frame of mind they
have no heart.
There was at the time an obscure Jewish
Colonel in charge of the 4th Australian In-
fantry Brigade. He is referred to only
once, in Yol. 11, in connection with a memo
about canteen supplies. His idea of discip-
line was not that of the Regular Army, but
it one of his officers had paltered and equivo-
cated for five minutes, much less five fatal
days, the weakling would have had skort
shrift. Hamilton was not built like that.
. have just been through a horrible mental
crisis, he wrote—“l refer to Freddy Stop-
tord. Here is a man who has committed
no fault; whose life-long conscientious study
ot his profession has borne the best fruits
in letting him see the right thing to do and
how it should be done. And yet he fails
lhere is no use beating about the bush
now—-simply he was not big enough in char-
acter to face up to the situation. It over-
whelmed him.” Hamilton worked under
ghastly handicaps throughout, but he too
failed to face up to the situation. He could
not be ruthless with his friends. Because
he was himself so considerate and merciful
he is to blame for the loss of God knows
how many young lives. Such is the para-
dox which is war.
Poverty-stricken Intellectuals
Even here in Australia we have philo
Sophie anarchists teaching in our hig
schools and universities, and their cry to
the decent treatment of the workers, who ar<
for the most part better off than them
selves, is really a despairing protest agains
their own poverty-stricken conditions.
The manual laborer has lifted himsel
from 4d. to ]os., 125., even 15s. per day
the Victorian Government recently offeree
185 a year to a youth with a knowledge o
four or five languages who would attach
himself to the staff of the Melbourne pub
he library. With a wealth of satire it was
announced that this would enable the youth
to lift himself “out of the rut.” Here are
couple of other samples from the daily press.
A mistress is wanted for Queensland to teach
English, French, Latin and history, at a salary ol
£ls° a year, er less than £3 per week. Alongside
this offer is one of the same amount for an instruc-
tress in physical culture.
A master is wanted in Sydney to teach Latin
French and English, at £2o© a year, or leas than
£4 per week. He Is given a place to sleep In, but
no food. A steady wharf-lumper would do better.
The London County Council a few months
ago was called upon to decide the com-
mencing pay of some 400 young women
teachers. They had been trained for several
years, and had passed their examinations.
The wages fixed were at a rate no higher
than those paid- to the Council’s attendants at
Public lavatories. In Melbourne the chiefs of
the Science and Industry Department, which
the Commonwealth is trying to establish
declare that their inability to show good
results to date is largely due to the want
ot young scientific men. Except in one or
two big private-enterprise concerns the lack
of apprentices to science is most marked;
(Continued on page 24.)


a
a
True Economy in Agricultural Implements
df
When Anthony Horderns’ took up
the supply of Agricultural Imple-
ments, they took it up with the
whole-hearted thoroughness that
has characterised their every effort
towards a Perfect Shopping
Service to the people of Australia.
Value and Service to customers is assured.
f.
Canton Disc Ploughs have discs 26in. in diameter, each of which will turn a
furrow from 3 to 12 inches deep, and from 10 to 12 inches wide. The discs
are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle
to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely
over and is thoroughly pulverised.
Prices — Double Furrow (as illustrated), weight 7801 b £27/10/-
Treble Furrow, weight 9001 b •• • £32/10/-
This Plough, No. 74 Wiard, has forged steel beam, chilled or steel mouldboard,
knife coulter (not as shown), and Scotch clevis. The handles are of iron, and can
be raised or lowered ; best soft-centre steel mouldboards, steel landslides, witfi steel
shoes, and forged steel beam. Weight 841 b £5/5/-
Anthony Horderns’
value in Agricultural
Implements is
unsurpassable.
This is the Canton Guard Lever Harrow, a
most useful implement, especially in trashy ground.
The inconvenience and waste of time caused by
the tines accumulating trash and fouling a harrow
can be avoided by using this harrow, for, by means
of the levers, the tines clear themselves. Made in
two sections of 25 and 30 teeth per section.
50 teeth £8
60 teeth, including long bar £9/5/-
The Wiard Patent Wood Beam Plough (as
illustrated) will turn a furrow from 3 to 5 inches
deep and from 6 to 8 inches wide. Suitable for
light work, one horse being required. Weight 401 b.,
with wheel only £2/17/6
This Plough, No. 100 Wiard, has a patented Steel Beam. Two-horse.
The Ploughs are from 6 to 9 in. deep, 10 to 14 in. wide, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter and Iron Handles. Weight 1061 b. This plough is one of
the easiest of draught of the whole Wiard series. Extra Shares, 3/6 each.
Price £6/10/-
Wiard 1-horse Garden Plough, No. 62, weight 401 b £2/17/6
Write for
Complete List
of Farm
ILcfuipment.
This is the Emperor Hay Rake, and a good
rake it is, too. The teeth are flattened, and have
chisel points that will not dig, take up little dust,
offer least resistance, and reduce the draft.
Bft. wide, 24 teeth •• £l2
Zig-Zag Harrows, single, 25 teeth, with Bow for
Whiffletree 47/6
Heavy Single, 25 teeth • 70/-
Zig-Zag Harrows, 2-Wing, each 20 teeth, width
6ft. 6in., with Bow for Whiffletree.... 85/-
Zig-Zag Harrows, 3-Wing, each 20 teeth, width
Oft. 10in., with Bow for Whiffletree £6/10/-
Write us for prices of
anything you want —
when we quote prices
we mean business.
The Morgan Patent Spading Harrow is
infinitely superior to every other form of Harrow.
It not only thoroughly pulverises the soil, but
leaves it in such a condition that it is properly
aerated.
A —3ft.—One-horse, 8 16in. spades. . £lO
A—4ft. —Light two-horse, 8 I6in. spades, £lO/15/-
A —sft. —Light two-horse, 10 16in. spades £ll
C—sft. —Two-horse, 10 18in. spades. . £l2/15/-
A—6ft. —Standard two-horse. 12 16in. spades
£l2/15/-
C —6ft. —Heavy two-horse, 12 18in. spades
£l4/5/-
C —7ft. —Two or three-horse, 14 18in. spades
£l5
120. — Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough (as illus-
tration), has steel mouldboard, and is rigged with
straight steel coulter, which is always in line with the
plough, being automatically shifted when the mould-
board is reversed. This plough will turn hillside or
level land without leaving dead furrows or ridges.
Will cut from sin. to Bin. deep and Bin. to 12in. wide.
Weight 1181 b £8
ANTHONY HORDERN £ SONS.U-
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
. m
Lti
VE<S
B t~ ick f*i e 1 and Hill,
Sydney.
gd
fg


aKe KODAK Pictures
i
m
li
:
: 1
m
: *
II
•*
■
■■■■■■
■
IH''
1 ri
m'% ''M
■
ROD A R (Australasia) L T D.,
of everything'
that
interests you.
A Kodak will give you the best diary of all
your sports and pastimes— an album of jolly
Kodak snapshots.
If you are fond of outdoor sports a Kodak will
give you pictures of all the most exciting
moments.
If you incline to less strenuous pastimes a
Kodak will enable you to record the interesting
phases, whether they occur outdoors or
indoors.
No practice is necessary to get perfect Kodak pictures—you
can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour.
Fine postcard-size pictures can be made with the No. 3A Auto-
graphic Kodak Junior—a well-equipped model that is par-
ticularly popular. Price £6. Other Kodaks range in price
from 54/6 to £2O/15/-.
Ask for a copy of the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak
dealers, and
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; ‘The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street. Wellington, N.Z.
The Perfect Artist and the PERFECT INSTRUMENT.
a true interpreter of the worlds best music.
“His Master s Voice ’
MELBA.
The music you want to hear on an instrument is the music you could
otherwise perhaps never hear.
You want to thrill to the wonderful voices that resound in the great opera
houses; to hear the music of those who move continents with their exquisite
art, to dance to the irresistible melodies of the orchestras and bands that
grace the smartest social functions of the big capitals.
That is why you will finally decide on
His Master's Voice
Instruments and Records.
Under the well-known Dog trade-mark is grouped a galaxy of stars whose
fame reaches to the farthest corners of the eArth.
I
Such celebrities could not trust the reproduction of their art to any but the
perfect instrument. Their confidence is expressed by the fact that such
names as Melba, McCormack, Moiseiwitsch, Kubelik, Zimbalist, Kreisler,
Caruso, Elman, Heifetz, Paderewski, Mark Hambourg and a long list of
others are found only on His Masters Voice” Records.
Instruments range in price from £ll 1 Is. to £B7 1 Os.
To hear “His Master’s Voice” Records as they should be heard, play them on an “His
Master’s Voice” Instrument with an “His Master’s Voice” Needle.
Catalogue, record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
« gramophone”
Regd■ Trade-mark.
His Masters Voice
Reg A. Trade-mark.


sv
A Dainty Laxative
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over —gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance . re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Br. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Williams’
English Lilac
Talc Powder
3 B
MET WT 4-02
Grow Young
with the Years.
In all life’s stages, from
the year-old babe to the
charming white - haired
dame, seventy years
young—any time, any-
where.
WILLIAMS’
TALC
is welcome. Choose your
odor: English Lilac, Car-
nation, Violet, La Tosca
Rose, Matinee, “Baby.”
ONE AND EIGHT.
Week-end size—Violet
and Carnation only—
ONE SHILLING.
forty s%r*Tc*tl ihz T&k
'4Ca.tr ir?;Hf .
m
m
W&
a i mm
5*
m
a.
dgrs
lyggg'ggyggy
sT
C'Oo
CO
nrn
i£P.
rir.LJ
Coco
oj>'
A Motor Bag that
means
Carrying Comfort and
Serviceable Smartness.
X93.—ART LEATHER MOTOR BAG, solid
leather lined, with inside slit-pocket and
large pocket on outside. Embossed front and
back and hand-laced all Kookaburra,
Gum Leaves. Christmas Bells, Waratah or
Blue Wren designs. Size lOin. x 7iin.
Price 25/= Post Free.
We are the largest leather goods specialists
in the Commonwealth. When in town call
in and inspect our spacious showrooms.
The AMERICAN BAG STORES Ltd
THE BAG- STORE .CORNER,-- TONG AND PITT STREETS,
STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST. SYDNEY" ARCADE. GEORGE ST. SYDNEY:
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
p
w
Br_ ■ •
s.
(/, r\ iO
J^
Put “Vallo” on Guard
Give your Sheep the protection that is embodied in
every packet of “VALLO.” Remove every possi-
bility of uncertainty. There are no failures where
this reliable preparation is used, and there can
be no infection when your flocks have been through “VALLO.”
Powder SHEEP DIP
possesses merits which no Woolgrower should overlook. It is not an
experiment. Its equality to the best Dip ever on the market has been
firmly established by leading Pastoralists everywhere. Its growing
popularity is due to demonstrated efficiency and service. Every claim
for “VALLO” can be substantiated by performance records.
Look for the Trade Mark.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
54
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River,
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Use the BRANDY Your Men ,
EnjoyedinFrnce MARTELLS
[lj ca c- CE=> :
CAC-
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND | C'A-C . j BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street. Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
gg''cA-c [|
Iffcac. rr=^ :
dfg
If C-A-O P
— XTI c-A-o
vsdf
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Shadow Time.
O Lord, my God, can I not stay
A little while with Thee and pray?
Fain would I be, O Lord and Friend,
Protected, cherished to the end.
But many things there are to do;
Aye, some indeed the soul may rue
When Life, its pomps and works shall be
A .shadow on Eternity;
And then shall one find peace who could
Not love Thee, Lord, although she would?
We are so wrought by little things,
Forgetful that Thy bounty flings
Before us, though we pass it by,
The treasure of the earth and sky.
Shadows dreaming on the Deep—
How deep the shadows seem to sleep!
A whisper comes that haply I
Am nothing but a passer-by,
A shadow cast upon a stream
With but the substance, of a dream ;
Yet wondrous, too, and true Life seems,
As often comes to pass in dreams.
And is there nothing can be done
To mark the race that has been run?
Or must I, when I fall asleep,
Be just a shadow on the Deep?
O Lord, my God, give me to stay
A little while with Thee, and pray.
N.S.W.
MARJORIE QUINN.
Campbell Town.
By Campbell Town the river creeps,
And there when there is none to see
One old in sorrow comes and weeps,
And tells a broken rosary.
No silken anguish set in chords
That beat at Pity’s shining gate,
But grief that finds no meed of words
To make itself articulate ;
O Campbell Town, far Campbell Town!
O Lady of the soft grey gown!
I went one day by Campbell Town,
By Campbell Town that was so fair,
In green and gold and summer-brown
When She was there, when She was there:
Her town that keeps one empty place
Through all the fullness of the years,
Her town with its so quiet face,
Whose dumb regard was more than tears:
O Campbell Town, far Campbell Town,
O Lady of the soft grey gown!
By Campbell Town the waters flow;
Perhaps she hears them singing by;
Her roses, haply, when they blow,
Are glad for her sweet presence nigh ;
But grief too sharp for words to bear,
And tears too bitter-salt to flow,
Are ours for ills we could not share,
Who loved her so. who loved her so.
O Campbell Town, far Campbell Town,
O Lady of the soft grey gown!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Reveller.
I have worn the air,
The exquisite silk of God.
With sandals fair
Of the morning dew
My feet have been shod;
And all the blue,
Starred to the uttermost hem
Of the jewelled night,
Sits as a diadem
On my forehead light.
I have tasted wine,
Drawii from a cellar deep,
That the heavy years refine
While the broad hills sleep—
White wine from the mossy spring
With the ferny lip
That maddens the birds to sing
With the joy they .sip.
•I have eaten the world for bread;
And as fruits were its dreamings,
Sweet and sweeter for tvords said
And the askings and seemings
Of men living and dead.
Almonds of yesterday and raisins a
world old,
And to-morrow’s apricots, rose upon
gold—
Great is the banquet spread;
Yet. gluttonous to the last,
So richly my soul is fed
That always I fast.
I have heard a great song,
Wonderful, deep and wise.
For I have turned and looked long
Into the love of your eyes.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Gloria Munch.
Great kings and captains flamed upon the
world,
Like blazing stars that from the heights are
hurled.
And every time I see a falling star
I wonder where those kings and captains are.
N.S.W.
S.S.S.
Bankrupts.
What matters if that after all our strife
To get a sort of living out of life
We stand at last when we have spent our
breath
A.s suppliant bankrupts in the court of
Death?
For there, with tender healing in His hands.
Splendid and brotherly-sweet, our Pleader
stands.
He tells how we have striven early and late
To bring Love tribute due, how we have
sought
To succor every mourner at the gate.
Nor by deliberate deed or conscious thought
E’er turned from loyal service to our King.
Then Death leans to us, gravely beckoning,
And smiles, and hands us our certificate.
n.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.


y
D
m
o
r>
mM
The Purest Spirit in the World.
If you drink gin for your
health s sake, ensure the best
and purest by asking for
Coates’.
Coates’ Original Plymouth
Dry Gin is particularly rich in
juniper. It possesses that dis-
tinctive mellow quality that
only long maturing can give.
A product of the famous Black-
frairs Distillery, Plymouth,
England, since 1793. Its
quality never varies.
At all good hotels, clubs, wine and spirit
stores, etc. •
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Sole Agents, Sydney.
Inter-State Agents:—
Melbourne: H. J. Langdon and Co.
Brisbane: Perkins and Co., Ltd.
West Australia: Seppelt and Son.
mn
m
SxNX V
T 7
f
I
**»>
*r>
;
LU^
K#
V>3NC%
Q
m
£=3-0^
< -<
iTc
Z£o
Oar
Look what
I'VE got—"
Around
about 11
o’clock
any
morning
there’s an
awful hollow feeling i under a fellow’s belt.
That’s the time a slice of bread and “ Rex”
Luncheon Cheese ’ll taste like a ‘''little bit of
heaven ” to him !
You cannot possibly give the youngsters a more
wholesome, or more easily digestible spread than this
perfectly matured cheese.
Use “Rex” Luncheon Cheese for your lunches,
suppers, parties, picnics. Its appetising flavor and
fine quality are always relished.
Insist on “Rex.” —5-ozs. in every tin.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
l 2983
i
tern
nils Its
Canno
Clean; j
BrityH
Aak for ONOTq Ihk
tel*,
iture.
■®°*t for all Pens
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste ,
Cleans fbe feert) without scratching
Sweetens the breatbjbardeos tbe gams
MADE
IN
fy/
Australia
If your Ghemisf- or starekeep er
cannof* supply, send in stamps
Rocke Tompsitt & Co. Melbourne.
ESSEX Super-
Efficiency Again.
Brooklands This Time.
The ESSEX, in competition with the best British
and Foreign cars, earned distinction and applause
at England’s great racing track on Whitsun
Monday.
75 Miles per Hour, Short Handicap 5f miles:—
ESSEX (scratch), speed 73| miles per hour . , FIRST
HILLMAN, received six seconds SECOND
MORS, received 34 seconds THIRD
75 Miles per Hour, Long Handicap, 8£ Miles:—
SUNBEAM, received 15 seconds FIRST
HILLMAN, received nine seconds SECOND
ESSEX, gave 12 seconds THIRD
Whitsun Spring Handicap, 2 Miles:—
OPEL, scratch FIRST
LORRAINE-DIETRICH, scratch SECOND
ESSEX, received 18 seconds THIRD
In this race the winning car’s engine was nearly twice
the size of the ESSEX engine, ancl that of the second car
far larger still.
“The Motor,” commenting on the first race, says:—
Undoubtedly the Essex, driven by Mr. E. H. Lees, was a dark
horse and a surprise. It was a stock model, standard in every
detail, although, of course, equipped with disc wheels and stripped
as far as possible.”
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
136 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Five- and Three-passenger Cars in stock in various
colors of paint and upholstering.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2113.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 12, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE PRODIGAL SON— (Revised Version.)
OLD DAD BULL (full up of killing fatted calves): “Clear out! Get to work and raise your own fatted calf.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man."
anc * Published by William Macleod, of
usgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
uo *» George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
lor £1 i(ts. per annum you can have The
bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid,
■to any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to he addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
//ie /'.(litor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence’ l column
(ill contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political 3 Social or other Articles, Verse , Short Tales
01 Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclgsed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those,
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.);
F.. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,’ 1 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
Ip! Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., /,),1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., ISJ/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, /,2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
71!) Market Street, Chicago ; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Peclaer Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Eui.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Neivspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed
in each packet—otherwise: Boz., Ihd.; Sioz. to 10oz..
3d,; lOoz. to 120 z., 31d.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 12, 1920.
THE IRRELEVANCE OF SINN FEIN.
When in doubt create a diversion. It has
been the motto of Australia’s party politicians
for many years. If there is any one issue
on which this country is solid it is that, in
view of threatening dangers, Australia must
remain a self-governing part of an unim-
paired Empire. Each fresh outcry of the
party managers has been based
on some alleged design to burst up the
Empire. Twenty years ago it was “dis-
loyal” to advocate autonomy for the Boers—
a policy which 14 years later impelled
thousands of Boers to fight for Britain, and
which transformed men like Botha and
Smuts into warm supporters of the Empire.
When in 1903 the tariff movement began to
advance in a marked manner in all the
Australian States, G. H. Reid attacked Pro-
tection as a manifestation of disloyalty to
the Motherland. By 1906 Freetrade was so
dead —with no prejudice whatever to the
Commonwealth’s attachment to Britain—
that it had become worthless as a political
standby, whereupon Reid and the Conser-
vative press invented Anti-Socialism. The
recipe for preventing the Empire from being
torn to pieces by the tiger of Anarchy was
to put G. H. Reid in office. Labor, as repre-
sented by men like J. C. Watson, Andrew
Fisher and W. M. Hughes, was said to be
opposed to the marriage tie; and as local
defence advocates they were enemies of the
Royal Navy and the Imperial connec-
tion. A Fisher Government came
into power. No assault was made on the
nation’s morality; the R.A.N. and the C.M.F.
presently found their heartiest admirers in
the people who had opposed them ; and when
a war came, which threatened the life of the
Empire, Labor adherents volunteered and
died in its service by the thousand. Cir-
cumstances have pushed W. M. Hughes into
the Conservative camp—always the losing
camp in the long run in Australia. Simul-
taneously the Sinn Fein row has reached a
critical stage in Ireland—an insignificant
country on the other side of the earth which
neither Hughes nor 95 per cent, of Austra-
lians have ever troubled to visit. It was
Hughes’s luck that his imminent bank-
ruptcy as a politician should synchronise
with a dash for the limelight on the part of
one of those Irish clerics who are never so
Irish as when they are 12,000 miles or so
away from the old sod. And the idiotic con-
sequence is that with a dissolution and
another general election threatening, and
with a number of issues of real urgency fac-
ing the country, one of the chief questions
which the electors are going to be asked to
decide upon is whether or no Ireland should
become a Republic!
* * * *
This latest menace to the security of the
British Empire is as feeble a one as has
ever been put forward. The main objection
to Irish autonomy is said to be strategic.
Yet the fact remains that while Ireland has
resented the English occupation for about
seven centuries —during the greater part of
which period England has not held the coun-
try strongly—it has never been used effec-
tively for offensive purposes by an enemy.
At the end of the 17th century Louis XIV.
was to England what the Kaiser threat-
ened to become in 1914; yet though
he was able actually to land an
army in Ireland, even he could not
put a man into England. Every word that
ha;s been uttered against Irish separation on
strategic grounds has been said at different
times about the Flanders ports; about the
Dutch coast-line; even about the Channel
tunnel scheme. To all such talk there is the
one answer: that, with a British Navy in
being, Napoleon on the beach at Boulogne
and some possible successor on the shores
of Bantry Bay are in exactly the same box.
They may make threatening gestures, but
they will only fight when the possessors of
sea-power go to them for the purpose—as
when William landed at Carrickfergus
for the Battle of the Boyne; when Well-
ington went to the Peninsula a century
later; or when Britain’s expeditionary forces
proceeded to Flanders the other day. It
is at least an arguable proposition that
Britain would be well rid of the Irish row
at any price. Even at the price
in placing a nation of irreconcilable enemies
on its flank. But no party to a settled dis-
pute does remain irreconcilable ; and in the
case of Ireland all its material interests
tend towards Britain. Throughout the
recent war Ireland, according to the Statis-
tical Branch of the Irish Department of
Agriculture, imported between 20 and 25
millions’ worth of raw material from Eng-
land annually. Without British coal —of
which nearly £11,000,000 worth was im-
ported in 191 S and just on £12,000,000 worth
in 1919—Ireland’s chief industries would
fall dead; and a standing complaint of the
inhabitants for years has been that they are
not sent enough. The average annual bill
for English fats is one and three-quarter
million, and without this supply the Irish
margarine works would have to close down.
The Anglo-Irish trade for 1914—the last
normal commercial year—was £135,000,000.
The Irish could have bought and sold their
goods elsewhere. It simply suited them best
to deal with their neighbors. And if every
British soldier was pulled out of Ireland
to-morrow, and if a Republic was instituted
there the following day, the nation would
still remain bound to Britain by the most
enduring of all chains —self-interest.
* * * *
But in any event how is Australia going
to help by making a political issue of the
dispute? The oniy effects can be to cause
racial, religious and social bitterness which
may have a beneficial effect on the local
collection-plates, and which may drive cer-
tain Australians to the polls, but which
must interfere with unity of effort in all
sorts of directions. The British Empire is
in peril: in peril as great perhaps as it was in
when French’s army was falling back on
the Marne. The Russian millions, better
led, disciplined and equipped than they ever
were under Czarism, are not only threaten-
ing the exhausted Western countries of
Europe; preceded by their propaganda, they
are turning east. The Irish have no fancy
for Leninism, whose other name is inter-
nationalism ; they are Irish or nothing. The
scum who inhabit the Middle East; the
mixed races of Egypt; the Arabs., who have
been exasperated by the Syrian, Palestine
and Mesopotamian mandates; many of the
native races of India—these people are the
finest raw material the Bolshevik could
desire. If the British Empire is not to have
its throat cut in Afghanistan, or the Per-
sian Gulf, or on the Suez Canal, it will
shortly have to put forward further tremend-
ous efforts on land, sea and in the realms of
finance. How can Australia best help?
Certainly not by wasting time and energy
on controversies about Sinn Fein and simi-
lar questions. That may be a cheap and
satisfying form of patriotism from one point
of view, but it is no good to the Empire.
The best service Australians can do for the
Empire is to help it to remain supreme on
the seas, given which an Irish Republic
would matter no more than a Dutch or a
Belgian one, and the way to do it is to meet
our share of the general defence system.
Admiral Jellicoe stated Australia’s obliga-
tions in this direction very clearly last year.
The maritime interests of the British Empire
in these seas call for a fleet which will take
19f millions sterling per annum' to main-
tain. Australia was asked to carry a fifth
of that burden, apportioned on the basis of
the Commonwealth’s commercial interests.
That is about one-twenty-fifth of last year’s
cost of defending the whole Empire. The
response he got to as reasonable a proposi-
tion as a country ever had put before it was
the deadest sort of silence. W. M. Hughes
is ready enough to defend the Empire by
word of mouth; but he draws the line at
risking votes by asking the constituencies
to pay a fraction of their share of the Em-
pire’s bill. And so we have the Sinn Fein
diversion. It means nothing. It cannot
lead anywhere. But it also costs nothing,
and it inflames public feeling in a way that
a post-war defence platform never could.
In short, it is a possible office-winner for
one in desperate straits. W_ M. Hughes,
who once dauntlessly hitched his waggon to
the star of adequate defence at any price,
has fallen back on the shifts of the very
men at whom he jeered a decade ago.
THE EPITAPH OF UNSKILLED
LABOR.
Thebe are stories or legends of men wno
committed suicide because they realised, when
their best years were past, that they had all
their lives .been preaching a false doctrine,
leading the people astray, following bogus
gods and barking up the wrong tree. Some
have retired into caves or monasteries for
the same reasons. The once well-known Geo.
Keid, after dragging lus State for years
through the mire and disaster of Cobden’s
superstition, stated blandly that, though he
wouldn’t actually - say anything about turn-
ing Protectionist, his faith in his old myth
as a remedy for human ills was greatly
shaken. Then he retired to London as High
Commissioner on a salary of £3OOO a year,
which was better pay than he would have got
in a cave. Now another man, though one less
protrusive, Mr. Bodkin, secretary of the
Railway Workers’ Industry Branch of the
A.W.U., admits that his policy, or the policy
which he and , his party represent, has led
this fair country to miserable disaster, though
he doesn’t put it quite in these words, nor
does he say anything definite about retreat-
ing in sorrow to hide hjs diminished head
anywhere. This is part of an official de-
liverance to his members (5/8/’2O) :
Inquiries have been made from various parts of
the State [N.S.W.] regarding opportunities for
employment. I have stated before that the labor
market was extremely bad, and even now it has
in no way changed. It can be safely said that for
every unskilled workman required there are at least
ten men offering for the one job. This is not the
case with tradesmen. These men can obtain employ-
ment at any moment. The prospects for future
employment are by no means bright....A very bad
position; it could not be worse.... The navvy has
had exceptionally bad times for the past four years
but never worse than at present. This was pointed
out to the Ministers many weeks ago, and many
promises have been made, but so far with no results
to relieve the situation.... They now demand work.
For years three special influences have been
at work to make Australia a land of the
unskilled —of coolies, ryots, fellaheen, parcel-
carriers and dirt-shifters. Now that ten
dirt-shifters are clamoring for one job, while
people can’t get houses to live in for lack of
men who know even the simple arts of brick-
making, bricklaying, carpentry, etc., as
practised in old Babylon, the value of the
policy of producing unskilled workmen and
of suppressing and discouraging the other
sort can be fairly tested.
***■*
The first of the destructive elements that
have made this “new” country old and senile
beiore its time was, of course, iTeetrade,
which was specially strong in Bodkin’s
State. An arrogant, rich and largely-foreign
body of importers couldn’t see what Aus-
tralia wanted with manufactures, which em-
ploy and create and produce skilled labor,
seeing that the importer was willing for a
good consideration to bring here, in foreign
ships manned largely by colored labor, the
products of black, brown, yellow and cheap
white men from all the world. The papers
that supported this insanity earnestly recom-
mended prospecting as a “primary industry”
until the bottom practically fell out of the
gold-seeking business. Still more earnestly
they urged people to go on the land, with or
without qualifications, which, in a country of
pathetically irregular rainfall, great distances
and almost complete lack of inland naviga-
tion, panned out very badly in many cases.
The early Laborites made a sort of alliance
with the rich importers. The covering
(' linking up’ it is called) of the vast, dry
and rather unproductive distances led to a
loan railway boom out of all proportion to
the country’s population and resources—and
this is No. 2 of the curses above mentioned,
lhe importing element approved because
this policy also diverted attention from and
for the time being took the place of manu-
lactures. Governments approved because
the system was easy and popular, for any
"blithering idiot” could build railways when
the cost was charged to posterity and the
realisation of profits was nobody’s affair ; also
the same kind of person, if possessed of
muscle, could do probably 95 per cent, of the
work, which saved the trouble of educating
him to do something better. The States in
s P ent ou an average
£:j,4(J0,000 a year in cultivating and en-
couraging this brawny but rather helpless
kind of population. During the next 10 years
(1911-1920) they spent about £15,000,000 a
year in cultivating it still harder, and the
Commonwealth helped with a works policy
of its own. Now it looks as if
£30,000,000 a year of loan money is required
at the very least to even alleviate
the disaster that Mr. Bodkin sees ahead.
The unskilled man is more numerous than
ever before, having brought up his two sons
to his wholly precarious job or to his habit
of waiting for a job—this in the absence of
anything better to bring them up to —and
he requires nearly double the wages of 1901.
else he can’t possibly pay for imported food
and imported clothes; also he requires much
more costly materials to work with. But
no one knows where to find £30.000,000 a
year at or 7 per cent., and there is not
a tenth of that quantity of new works per
annum that the scanty population can use
so as to make them pay theiT working
expenses. It would be cheaper to give the
loan-money away than to spend it on works,
like the existing Canberra railway, which
pay nothing and require a pension for their
support. Furthermore —and this is curse
No. 3—=-it has long been the policy of the
unions to put such close restrictions on the
number of learners in any trade that it
is impossible to increase the output with
the growth of ponulation, and thus compete
against the profiteering importer and his
colored labor goods. In fact, there is a
failure in many lines to maintain even
the old output. On the other hand, the
increase of unskilled labor has never been
under any restrictions whatever, and now it
is a hard matter to deal with : for thoueh
the brilliant engineer may turn pick-and-
shovel man in time of stress, and thus fill a
gap and earn a crust, the process can’t be
\ reversed.
So Australia seems to be faced with the
prospect of having no roof over its head,
and no clothes except imported ones, for
want of traitied men ; and at the same time
it has so many untrained men that money
has to be borrowed to support them, and
when it can't be borrowed plain disaster
threatens both them and the country in
which they live. A lot of them might find
self-supporting employment as laborers on
the fringes, of high-class technical industry,
but such industry is crippled for lack of
technical workers; and the technical work-
ers in many industries will go on strike
rather than allow more technical workers to
be trained. So far there is a marked absence
of the strong men among them who will
preach repentance and strenuous reform,
a systematic effort to reduce the growing
horde of the unemployable, and the training
of the young (by compulsion if necessary)
to skille_d and remunerative industry. The
orthodox simple Trades Hall leader and the
rank-and-file politician believe in still more
unskilled population—and more loan works.
The slightly more complex politician of the
Motherhood McGirk type adds a gigantic
scheme for pensioning the unskilled father’s
son (growing up to be unskilled and pauper
himself) because the old man can’t buy-him
enough to eat and wear. The Bouki’ns of
the land have much to relate of the evils
that unbridled Bodkinism has brought upon
it. but they seem very obtuse about their
share in the business and very lacking in
remedial ideas. This particular Bodkin is,
moreover, so ungrateful and extortionate that
K S AA y Ln Ie Government which is spending
xl,,)00,(X)0 a month of posterity’s money has
done nothing “to relieve the situation.” It
is time some Government asked the Bodkins
what they are doing to the same end.
NATIONAL SENTIMENT.
A side-line of a monumental new book,
“Commerce and Industry,” by W. Page, is
the record of local taxation in the British
Isles. Local taxation strikes Donald
O’Bull, the composite citizen of the three
kingdoms, in the solar plexus after a fashion
undreamed of in Australia, for it has to
cover most of the cost of schools, police and
charity, as well as the bill for roads and
bridges. In the last year before the war the
thre<r kingdoms raised £82,843,504 in local
taxes, quite apart from the revenue from
gasworks, tramways, etc., which meant that
local rates were nearly half the total taxa-
tion. England paid £71,270,158 in rates
(oSs. 7d. per head) ; Scotland £7,708,944
(325. Od. per head) ; and Ireland £8,358,402
(a mere 15s. 4d. per head). A whole lot
of what are local expenses in Britain are
paid in Ireland out of the national revenue.
Phis concession, worth about £3,300,000 a
year, combined with exemption from com-
pulsory military service, and with special
land laws for the breaking up of big estates
and the creation of a race of small, inde-
pendent proprietors, represents an effort to
buy the goodwill of the Irish member of the
I atrick Mcßull partnership. And its
failure shows that that shadowy thing called
national spirit can’t be bought. Ireland on
its own would have to pay for a lot of things
that its big compulsory brother now pays
for it, but compulsion combined with benevo-
lence is almost as unpleasant to some
people as compulsion without the benevo-
lence. No matter how much a man likes a
bath, there- is always a kind of man who
hates to be forcibly washed by a complete
stranger, even though the stranger provides
scented soap.
The Home Rule experiment was tried
once and tried early in Russian Poland. The
Czar Alexander 1., a man with a con-
science that was much too big for him and
an outsize in souls, supplied Poland with a
1 arhament when Russia itself had none,
and with a much better one than the moli
ot nobles who formed the Diet in the inde-
pendence days. Compared with Grattan’s
I arliament in Ireland—the concern which,
as_ Roman Catholics were excluded, was an
Irish legislature minus Irishmen—the Polish
Parliament was a liberal affair. There was
hardly anything like it in continental
Europe. A bit of the country was experi-
mentally set up as a free republic. A Pole
Adam Czartoryski, became the Emperor's
chief adviser and de facto ruler not only
of I oland but of Russia. The country had
its own laws, which Ireland did not. ‘ And
in 1831 Russian Poland threw away its
Parliament and its Home Rule and all its
other chances in a struggle to have a sepa-
rate king of its own and to re-establish the
old chaos. It wanted to demonstrate that
it hadn’t been really licked and couldn’t be
permanently licked.
Scotland, at one time, came up against
the same proposition. When the royal family
out through breaking its neck Edward
I. offered it probably a better government
than, any it was likely to evolve for itself,
tor England had a real Parliamentary sys-
tem very early, while Scotland, except per-
haps for a little while in the golden age of
James IV., never got beyond a legislature
of nobles. The country hardly seemed worth
making a fuss about, for it was small and
was really two countries. The South,
attached to the kingship at Edinburgh, when
his nobles allowed the King to get a word
in by accident, was largely Saxon with a
veneer of Norman, and the North, speaking
a different language and running tumultu-
ously on its own, generally told the monarch
at Edinburgh to go to perdition. Sometimes
he went. Edward I. offered this country
Home Rule, with a deputy king of its own.
and the country, objected. It objected so
much that it joyously accepted Robert
Bruce as the figurehead of a separation
movement. He was of a family of Norman
cut-throats. He had property in both coun-
tries. but much more in England than in
Scotland. He was Edward I.’s subject, and
did homage to him. His familv liad ’been
strenuous applicants for the deputy-king-
ship. but no_t with any view of sacrificing
their English property for a sentiment. Thev
meant simply to add the deputy crown to
their Anglo-Scoto-Norman baronies and
climb up a step. A fine, robust murder
made Robert Bruce an outlaw in England,
and ho had to take up the trade of Scottish
patriot or burst. Scotland took this aggres-


sive Norman to its bosom and. ma £ e „
a national hero and a national
he was the best available leader a b
one than Poland or Ireland ever found—
to demonstrate that it hadn t been licke
and wasn’t going to be benevolently annexec.
The fact that Bruce was remotely connected
with the Scottish royal family, extinct in
the direct line, was a mere gloss. Remote
connections as common as mud. \\ hen
Robert Bruce’s brother came forward to
do the same act in Ireland and be king and
liberator of the Irish, they took a different
view. They said that they wanted no more
Normans. . c
In South Africa the sentiment of nation-
alism—that unreasoning, unaccountable sen-
timent called nationalism—has been partially
suppressed in two ways. The Boers have been
flattered by having their city of Pretoria made
the administrative capital, and if Dublin or
Tara had been made the administrative
capital of Britain the Irish might have been
flattered also. And they were mollified be-
cause the first two Prime Ministers of the
Union were Boers. Scotland was mollified
in the same way when a Scottish king was
brought from Edinburgh to London to rule
over England, because it suggested that Scot-
land had annexed England; and when
Alexander I. made Adam Czartoryski his
chief minister he tried to do the same sort
of thing with Poland. Jan Christian
Smuts, who is a good but Pecksniffian soldier-
statesman (a Dickens scholar once said
that between him and the transparently-
honest Botha there was a Deep of differ-
ence). makes speeches about the permanent
reconciliation and the union of hearts. But
possibly when the Boers no longer supply
Prime Ministers regularly to South Africa
the union of hearts may develop a flaw.
Within the last century or so a wonderful
number of little nationalities, from Greece
to Norway, have been offered Home Rule
(“a liberal measure of self-government
within the empire”) as a compromise. Not
one of them had the least use for the article.
J. E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unguarded Gate.
“Never let our enemies see Australia from
the air, or they will want it.” That is the
judgment of C. J. De Garis after spending
40 hours up above and looking down on 3000
miles of Australian territory, mostly unde-
veloped. The achievements of Ross Smith
and Ray Parer show that Australia can
be invaded from the North by squadrons of
swift-flying bomb-droppers. Presently the
Americans may send a dirigible down from
the Philippines—they are building replicas
of the British giant that flew from London
to New York and back in a week—to demon-
strate that the thing is as practicable by
airship as by aeroplane. And if a hostile
nation decided upon aerial invasion in real
earnest, Australia would find itself rather
worse off than Siam and little better
equipped than Thibet. It hasn’t even begun
to consider the matter of defending the
northern air-routes. As De Garis points
out, it is lacking in landing-grounds, charts
and surveys, oil depots and other essentials
of aerial defence. It doesn’t build aero-
planes itself, and the few it has imported
are obsolescent or obsolete —they are cer-
tainly quite incapable of encountering the
fast and powerful machines that a raiding
or invading flotilla would assuredly be com-
posed of. Australia possesses thousands of
capable pilots and mechjmics, men trained
in the most exacting school and subjected
to the severest of practical tests, but with
the complaisance of ignorance it has allowed
the bulk of them to drift into other avoca-
tions where the knowledge so laboriously
acquired will be wasted, and in process of
time lost, while those who have sought em-
ployment in what should be an expanding
industry have been treated with dishearten-
ing indifference. In aviatio'n, more than in
any other calling, a man who wants to be
efficient has got to keep up to the collar.
He can’t afford to lose touch with develop-
ments in a business that is constantly devel-
oping. Yet only a handful of Australians
have had anything to do with aeroplanes
since the hosts came home. During the last
year of the war there were four Australian
fighting squadrons on the battle-fronts and
four training squadrons in Britain, the total
personnel being upwards of 3000; and for
want of encouragement from a country which
is absorbed in sport and sectarianism and
pursuits equally futile, and which, though not
destitute of intelligence, is lamentably defi-
cient in imagination, nearly the whole 3000
have dropped out. It is sheer waste of
splendid material and brilliant, unrealised
opportunities. The politicians are the chief
criminals, but the people are not exempt
from blame. Like the poor creatures who sit
in their Parliaments, the people are blind to
the great possibilities of commercial aviation.
When ambitious young airmen talk commer-
cial aviation in Australia —being, for the
most part, youths drawn from the working-
class, they have to look for backers,
never having had a chance of making money
themselves —they can’t get a hearing. Syd-
ney, a city cluttered with picture-shows, is
finding a quarter of a million for another
movie-theatre, but the D.F.C. or D.F.M.
who tried to raise a few thousands in Pitt-
street for a small aerial transport company
would strike the most chilling frost he had
ever experienced. Yet half the money wasted
in a month on the nefarious pony-racecourses
would furnish forth half a dozen aerial trans-
port companies and give employment to
scores of magnificent young Australians, who
ask only the opportunity of serving their
country in peace, as they served it in war.
The' contrast between the national passion
for horse-racing and the cold neglect that
is their portion must make these birdmen
feel bitter, mofe especially when they remem-
ber that Canada is constructing aero-
planes by the thousand —she turned out 350
machines and eight flying-boats in the last
month of the war—apd that Japan’s aerial
programme (for military purposes only) .is
costing £6,250,000 a year. But Australia
has no time to spare for reflections on
neglected opportunities or humiliating com-
parisons. It is now wrestling with the great
annual problem of wot’ll win the two Cups.
Prohibition.
The first month of the new financial year
was something of an epoch for that Minis-
terial crowd in Sydney which gives a
general impression that it has a tail and
lives in trees, though its imitation of a
responsible politician is almost human at
times. The revenue came in gaily enough,
for the loan money in circulation is more
abundant than rabbits, and all the money in
circulation —metal and paper money, bor-
rowed or cadged or stolen money—wanders
through the Treasury some time in the
course of the year. But the Government
contrived to spend £800,312 more than was
spent in July, 1919, which looks like in-
creasing the whole year’s spendings by
£9,600,000-odd; and it managed to get rid
of £895,237 more than it received, which
looks like a shortage of £10,700,000-odd for
the year. Also it raised the loan spendings
from a little over £500,000 (at the rate of
£6,000,000 a year) in July, 1919, to
£1,500,000, which is at the rate of £18,000,000
a year. The Government which maffies this
pace hasn’t met Parliament yet except for
a few minutes to elect a Speaker; but when
it gets authority it may really get its coat
off and start in earnest. Things like that
were done by the Legislatures and Minis-
tries of unlettered and newly-freed black
freaks that ran the Cotton States of Uncle
Sam’s country for a few dreadful years
after the Civil War. Still, no sympathy need
be wasted on the great bulk of the old
Respectable Party of the S. M. Herald and
Telegraph and Evening News brand,
which will pay for these and even worse
jamborees, and which sees its Government
securities being adulterated to the verge of
worthlessness by unlimited new issues. It
had its chance and threw it away—through
dulness, ignorance, conservatism, lack of
foresight, selfishness, greed, parochial
bigotry, stodge, pride, anti-Australian senti-
ment, cowardice and a self-confidence which
passed that of the boss giant the morning
before the Deluge. Some 14 years back it
was pointed out that direct taxation in N.
S. Wales amounted to only 15s. 9d. per head
per annum and could bear increasing. As
it is now about £7 per head and the State
survives after a fashion, it is obvious that
an increase was possible. Also it was sug-
gested that the increase, whether it was £1
per head (about £1,500,000) or £2 per head
(about £3,000,000) or £8 per head (about
£4,500,000), should form a Public Works
Fund and Sinking Fund, and that peace
borrowing should be absolutely prohibited by
law except for renewal purposes. As bor-
rowing then was at the rate of about £1
per inhabitant per annum, a very slight
rise in taxation would have made Prohibi-
tion not only possible but easy. If Loan
Prohibition had been once established and
legalised and recognised and organised, with
a definite party behind it, the work of re-
versing the decision would have been as
big as the reversal of Drink Prohibition. If
Loan Prohibition had been enacted when it
was the simplest matter possible there would
now be no Dooley or McGirr in the front
of State politics, for they are not states-
men—-only mad brewers with lOU’s in-
stead of malt. The unresponsive old crowd
lacked the courage to Prohibit, and it de-
serves the worst that may come to it. It
merely talked in a vague fashion about
Moderate Loan Drinking. So the new
crowd, with its £18,000,000 a year of bor-
rowed money and its grants and bonuses
and pensions to all its supporters and their
sisters and their cousins and their aunts,
isn’t troubled with the obloquy of revers-
ing the policy of better men, for there was
no such policy. This new Government is
simply continuing on the old lines and no-
body has a right to complain. Old Admin-
istrations said that it was good to raise
two millions a year, and the new one says
that, on that evidence, it is better to raise
20 millions. Until a positive Anti-Loan
party arises to give the State a clear-cut
issue to fight for, not only is the continuance
of the present policy possible, but much
worse things are possible; and the end of
those worse things is either plain repudia-
tion or grinding taxation, which will dis-
courage enterprise and inflict tragic hard-
ship on those whose incomes are fixed or
who are dependent on voluntary grants and
gifts and allowances.
War-time Profits.
Australia’s disappointing War-time Profits
Tax expires by effluxion of time, and will
probably not be renewed. Britain is still
collecting, and its annual figure is about
£800,000,000, which is also about the sum
used in payment of debt. And as Britain
has no State Governments which borrow
20 millions each time the Central Govern-
ment pays off two millions, this is a real
effort against both war and peace liabilities.
But, then, J. Bull is not at all like an Aus-
tralian Treasurer. If the taxes in the two
countries had been equal it might have been
expected, on a pure population basis, that
Australia would pan out for about
£33,000.000. as against J. Bull’s
£300,000,000. As this country demanded 50
and then 75 per cent, of the excess profits,
while Bull demanded only 40 per cent,
(though he took more in other ways), it
was even thought by some that the Austra-
lian tax might yield £50,000,000 in a year.
But it never yielded two millions or anything
like it, and the trifle that did eventuate
wasn’t a tax on honest or dishonest industry,
but mostly a tribute levied on paper incomes
artificially created by the scattering of paper
money and paper war-bonds. The tax was
virtually a census of Australia’s rich
profiteers—not absentees or importers who
were agents for absentees, but its own. The
country set out to count its shipping and
shipbuilding and iron and steel and brass
and cotton and linen and silk and thread
and cocoa and jute and beer and whisky and
chemical and carpet and machinery and
railway and paper-making and money-lending
and other kings, and levy on them. And
what it found was an amazing number of
wharf-laborers, pick and shovellers depen-
dent on loans, borrowing politicians, mort-
gaged cockies, union secretaries, fuzzy phil-
anthropists who want to pension everybody,
men without trades, boys without prospects,
racecourse touts and alien agitators who
preach against work. The newly-rich snob
with no known ancestors has been said to
found pious endowments to atone for the
sins of his imaginary feudal forebears, by
way of making a good impression socially.
In somewhat the same style the Australian
political fraud goes round repenting of the
sins of his great profiteers who don’t exist,
and makes his political profit by proceeding
to slay the bogus dragon and exorcise the
fictitious evil spirit. A Federal tax of 10 per
cent, on State loans would have yielded
something; but when an experienced and
strenuous income-tax department got after
the war profiteer with the biggest weapon on
record, and collected about ss. per inhabitant
per annum, the business hardly paid for
shoe-leather.
Concerning; Dead Horses.
The N. S. Wales Chief Secretary was
almost god-like last week in his pity for
uninformed critics who thought that State
enterprises weren’t charged with deprecia-
tion, sinking fund, etc. Well, are they,
except in a few piffling affairs for show pur-
poses'? If anything requires to have depre-
ciation written off, it is surely a work which
is not only growing old but is also a per-
petual dead loss. Yet sometimes the book
value of such N. S. Wales State undertak-
ings goes up instead of down. For instance,
in the railway report for 1919 there is a
record of 46 non-paying lines aged more
than one year (some of them were aged as
much as 56 years), and no less than 34 of
them had a higher capital value set against
them than they had in previous years. Go
back to 1902. In that year the most ancient
loser, the Blacktown-Richmond line, born in
1864, was valued at £198,079. The loss on
it was £4419 for the year. In 1918, when
the loss on the same old derelict was
£18,366, it was set down as worth £276,910.
Is that writing off depreciation in any honest
and reasonable sense of the term? It cer-
tainly wouldn’t be regarded so by the audi-
tors of a bank which had on its books at
an increased value an asset on which it had
been losing more and more money ever since
1864. In fact, if a bank practised such
tricks they would be regarded as very good
evidence of- —well, not honesty. The Kail-
way Commissioners are not to blame. They
can’t help it; they are not allowed to use
revenue to pay off lost capital. But Min-
isters, especially highly indignant ones like
Dooley, could do something. It is difficult
to follow a lot of the items very far back,
for names change. (Thus “Goulburn-Cooma”
in 1906 apparently merges into the extended
“Joppa-Nimmitaibel” in 1918.) But a few
hardy old identities can be traced in this
wise:—•
r— 1906 N r— 1918
Capital Capital
Railway. Value. Loss. Value. Loss.
Demondrille-
Blayney . . £1,147,085 £36,030 £1,272,559 £59,440
Culcairn-
Corowa . . 239,339 6,757 307,547 10,181
Nevertire-
Warren . . 51,589 2,243 52,158 2,853
Koonawatha-
Grenfell . . 127,722 2,274 157,700 9,417
This paper is quite willing to admit that
depreciation is provided for in some N.S.W.
Government undertakings. For instance, at
the Mirrool cheese factory for a recent year
2s. 2d. j_26d.) was written off under this
head for office furniture alone and £196
17s. 2d. for buildings and plant. But the
Demondrille-Blayney railway seems to want
it more.
♦ -
Wattle Day.
Wattle Day has become a rather sour sort
of jest now that White Australia has got
down to importing wattle-bark grown by
higger.s in South Africa: so perhaps it
had better be suspended for a while. This
nation will holler for White Australia,
orate for it, go on strike for it, go
to the races for it—but won’t work
much for it. It relies on niggers for
a great deal of its sugar, though it has both
cane lands and beet lands, and the sugar
maple would flourish in some of its many
climates. The jute and hemp that make the
bags for its sugar and wheat and the re-
ceptacles for its wool are produced by murky
brother. The silk attire of which it is so
fond is largely of colored origin. Though it
has a vast area of cotton country the cotton
goods it uses are made out of the product
of the blackest kind of Ham and the
brownest sort of Shem. In fact, White
Australia depends more on colored labor than
some openly piebald countries do. It
wouldn’t have the nigger or the “mean
white” here, yet it won’t do the work that
they generally do. So it patronises them
afar off and loses the taxes they would pay
if they were here. The aggregate Australian
position is that of the proud Louisiana slave-
owner without any slaves or the feudal
aristocrat without any serfs—that is to say,
it is beneath the great boss's dignity to do
certain things, and he has no inferiors to do
them for him, so they remain undone. Now
the wattle doesn’t really belong to us any
more. And until we recover it—until we
grow at least our own requirements of it—
we had perhaps better suspend Wattle Day.
Or wear the yellow sprig with crape.
+
The Muddled Public Mind.
How many electors give solid thought to the
big issues, on which they are called from
time to time to vote? Five per cent.? Ten?
Certainly not more. The most horrible
examples have been afforded by the Consti-
tutional referendums; but the liquor refer-
endums now pending in N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria look like equalling, if they don’t sur-
pass, anything in that line which has gone
before. Nearly all liquor propaganda, pro
and anti, is based on appeals to prejudice
or on some form of emotionalism. The no-
license champions specialise in ruined homes,
suicides, embezzlements, deserted or bashed
wives and children, and assassinations.
Drinkers rarely listen to or read these hor-
rifying yarns. They are addressed mostly
to the already-converted, while the alcohol-
ists are gathered in bars proving to one
another that the world’s bloodiest-minded
villains have been teetotallers. “Look at
the Turks! The curse of Europe for five
centuries! Read about the Armepian mas-
sacres. The man that compares a Turk
with an honest, beer-drinking Britisher—
well, he’s a dam’ disloyalist. ’Ave an-
other.” Such, are the arguments most com-
monly voiced by the pro-drink section, and
like the shrieks of the other side they have
little to do with the case. Yet it is under
this sort of compulsion that many on both
sides go to the polls. The rich have looked
on complacently, provided they are not largely
interested in brewery shares, pubs and the
like. They have assumed in a vague way
that if they wanted liquor they would be
able to get it. But latterly, when the
damage from their point of view has probably
been pretty well done, they have begun to
see that the Prohibition weapon is loaded.
For example, in their capacity as members of
social clubs. Melbourne and Sydney have
some of the finest clubs in the world. But
several of the most prominent of ththn are
only keeping their heads above water with
a struggle. With Prohibition in force they
would certainly go under. Addressing the
Registered Clubs’ Assoc, of Victoria last
week, R. O. Blackwood observed: —
If clubs were no longer allowed to supply liquor
to members it would mean .that the majority would
have to close, owing to lack of revenue. Most of
the clubs occupied buildings which were in keeping
with their revenue, but if a very large part of their
revenue was to be taken away many would liave
either to sell their buildings or exchange them for
insignificant quarters.
Again, a Licenses Reduction Board was
established in N. S. Wales in 1919
and it began work this year. If
within the next three years the Board
exercised its rights and wiped out 78
licenses inside the Sydney area, there
would not be nearly enough money to com-
pensate those dispossessed. The Board
would have to go to the Treasury. But if in
the same period Prohibition is voted —and
a Prohibition referendum is one of the lega-
cies left to the Stokey Government by the
Nationalists —then the taxpayers will be
required to find between 10 and 15 mil-
lions sterling for the pub-keepers —or go in
for repudiation and confiscation. Are these
consequences of Prohibition realised? Tak-
ing one thing with another, it would probably
be better democracy and sounder business if
every elector, as a condition precedent to
voting on any referendum, was required to
pass a more or less searching examination
in the subject.
- «.
Protection and the Public Health.
From a southern laboratory :
One Commonwealth enterprise that more than
pays its way is the Serum Institute at Royal Park
(Vic.), which turns out about 100 sera, vaccines,
anti-toxins and other biological products. During
its first year the ’flu’ gave it a big lift and it raked
in something like £25,000 (even then allowing its
the doctors, to make fat profits), besides
distributing a lot of free stuff. Since then it has
worked up a good, steady business in diphtheria anti-
toxins, tuberculins and vaccines, supplying not only'
the Commonwealth but Maoriland (where the Gov-
ernment is a good customer) and the Pacific Islands,
and it is reaching out for business in S. Africa, India
and the Straits Settlements. A new line from which
a lot is hoped is an anti-tetanus serum—it is just
about ready for issue. So far the place is run purely
on commercial lines, but a big opening for research
work exists, and there is talk of adding a cancer
research wing, for which private citizens are ready
to put up some of the cash. But the main trouble
about doing much in the way of national health work
is that there are mighty few vote? in it. The im-
pulse and a lot of the skill and money for tackling
hookworm had to come from U.S.A. ; and in other
parts of Australia there are problems just as pressing.
And from a Sydney consulting-room:—
Sydney is just about to get an illustration of how
one industry helps another- —which shows the great
importance of making a start, no matter how small.
Some time ago, chiefly because of the war, a
laboratory was established by the Federal Govern-
ment in Melbourne for the production of anti-
serums, vaccines, etc. This being in existence the
Government felt justified in imposing heavy duties
on such imports. Now these duties have produced
a Sydney laboratory, which may be immediately
drawn upon for fresh vaccines, etc.; and freshness,
of course, is highly important. The company which
has been formed, the Biological Institute of Aus-
tralia, is prepared ■ to supply any quantity of poly-
valent vaccines and anti-serums, but does not propose
to interfere with the work of physicians who have
a penchant for pathological research, so it will leave
the manufacture of autogenous vaccines to them. The
vaccines will be derived from microbes isolated from
Australian types of disease, which is a distinct
advantage, as they will be fresher and more suited
to our needs than any imported varieties could ever
hope to be. The distributors, who include one well-
known drug firm, are mentioned in the prospectus,
but though the enterprise is said to be under the
direction of members of the medical profession their
names are not divulged. The laboratory is at
Randwick, and the distributing centre at 83 Bavs-
water-road.
Devil’s Advocacy.
Sydney Telegraph had a clumsy bit of
special pleading on behalf of the theatrical
managers last Saturday :
What sort of men and women are they who, for
mere snobbery’s sake, would rather see their young
daughters suffering the hardships in the life of the
chorus-girl than enjoying good wages and comfort-
able homes of domestic helps? As long as there
is well-paid work in good homes waiting for girls,
which only tinselled snobbery prevents them .from
taking, it is not much use appealing to the common-
sense of this or any other community for legislation
to remedy the grievances for which only this deplor-
able preference by women for the less womanly work
is responsible.
By similar reasoning it is tinselled snobbery
for a man to be a journalist instead of a
wharf-lumper. The truth is that just as
many a leader-writer would be useless and
wretched on the wharves, or bricklaying or
cutting out cattle or performing on the stage,
so many stage-girls are unfitted by tempera-
ment and physique to scrub floors and wash
clothes. And there is another aspect of
the situation. These girls, like the gentle-
man who wrote the Telegraph article, have
something special to sell —a voice,- acting
capacity, a talent for dancing or a stage
presence. Why should they throw away the
gifts with which Nature has dowered them
and turn to a calling which, till women began
to look elsewhere for employment, was the
worst paid in existence? It is not snob-
bery on their part to reach after the stars —
however hopeless the venture may, be in the
case of most of them —but it is poisonous
snobbery to gibe at them for doing so. Grant
that theatrical firms are to be allowed to
employ chorus-girls at all, then the posi-


T*L e Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmens Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over D 000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soun
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
t.ion surely is, not that these young women,
when they ask for a fair wage, should be
told to take a starvation one or become
domestic helps, but that the industries con-
cerned should be required either to pay up
or go out of the business. The argument
employed by the Telegraph has been used
by every theatrical white-slaver since the
birth of musical comedy. There is a type
of human being who must act or sing or
dance in the same way as poets must write
and painters paint. In the past theatrical
managers have had the use of these people
on the cheap. Sometimes they had private
means; failing that they lived, with the
cognisance of their employers, in a way that
till recent years has besmirched the name
“actress,” and given an unpleasant odor to
the whole theatrical profession. Nothing
but the movement which the Tory papers
are now opposing altered that situation. The
British Actors’ Association began by wring-
ing out of the managers a minimum salary
for chorus-girls of £3 a week, with £2 a
week while rehearsing. The New York
Chorus- Girls’ Union next tackled the big
American firms with the demand that the
business should be “put on a respectable
basis.” The Union w T on. The managers
didn’t grant all the demands, but the girls
got enough, as one of their leaders put it to
the New York press, “to make it possible
for a girl without home resources to work in
the chorus without leading a life of shame.”
Which is about all the Actors’ Federation of
Australasia looks to get for the Australian
girls. There may be something in the view
that the average musical show deserves to
be banned altogether as an outrage on art.
But to suggest that while there are such
shows the girls in the choruses should not
command public sympathy even though they
are ill-paid and suffer hardships—well, the
newspaper that talks like that is simply
playing honorary advocate for Pandarus.
A Few Councillors.
The Labor majority in Sydney’s grotesque
City Council has grandiose ideas on the sub-
ject of loan expenditure, regardless of the
fact that money is dearer than ever before
and is increasingly hard to get. Although
it can buy all the metal it wants from a
State quarry, it yearns to acquire an ex-
pensive quarry of its own. Against the
advice of its own engineer, it wanted to pay
£75,000 for a syndicate’s interest in some
undeveloped coal leases at Illawarra, the
syndicate having spent a whole £4OOO on the
property. On inquiry it turned out that
there was some doubt as to the tenure of
the leases, considerable doubt as to the suit-
ability of the coal, and no doubt whatever
that the cost of putting a plant and. equip-
ment on the mine and connecting it with the
railway would be enormous. Then an in-
dependent engineer observed that if the syn-
dicate got £9OOO for its rights it would be
doing splendidly, and in the hubbub and
wonderment that now began to gather about
the transaction further proceedings were
suspended for a month. Next the mostly-
Labor works committee was seized with the
bright idea of extending Moore-street to
Macquarie-street, a job estimated to cost
anything between one and two millions. With
money at 7 per cent., land at boom values,
material inordinately dear and skilled labor
so scarce that there is a house famine of
unprecedented proportions and so independ-
ent that it won’t work more than five days a
week, there couldn’t be a worse time for a
gaudy programme of city “improvements”;
but the works committee light-heartedly
suggests that it is a job that can’t wait.
It also recommends that a monoply worth
anything from £30,000 to £90,000 should be
presented to a particular firm of architects
—the same lucky dogs who were given the
same valuable consideration under the War
Service Homes scheme —although there is a
city architect and there are building surveyors
and other officers all qualified to do the work
and employed for the identical purpose. But
ignoring its paid advisers has become a habit
with the Council. When an engineering
vacancy occurred recently the head of the de-
partment recommended a senior officer who
had the additional merit of being a returned
soldier. In contempt of this recommendation
the Labor majority awarded the job to an
officer of inferior length of service who hadn’t
gone to the war, whereby it broke a solemn
pledge made to employees on war service and
broke the law too. It was saved from being
prosecuted bv a reversal of the illegal re-
solution, It. D. Meagher voting against the
sullen Labor caucus. But clearly it is no
advantage to an officer of the municipality
to have fought for Australia. By the more
rabid type of Labor alderman it is regarded
as an insult to their flag—the red flag* Last
week the Labor-controlled Town Hall was
given over to the hero-worship of ten of the
I.W.W. prisoners, one of whom, according
to Judge Ewing, is a dangerous criminal,
while six others were engaged in a
seditious wartime conspiracy against Aus-
tralia. On the day the ten were liberated
the works committee discussed the resump-
t'on of land in Darlinghurst on which the
Red Cross Society proposed to erect build-
mgs for the benefit of Diggers, and unless the
Sydney Telegraph has grossly misrepre-
sented the case this is what happened :
Aid. Farrell said that if a few feet taken off a
back yard was going to inconvenience a few soldiers
the time had arrived —independent of whether it was
going to inconvenience a few d —d soldiers or
not-—-
Aid. W. P. McElhone (warmly) : I object to that
remark. You have no right to make it.
Aid. Farrell (also with warmth) : Soldiers are
not going' to hang up the business of this council.
He proceeded to say that if the Red Cross wanted
to go the whole hog they [the Council] would wipe
it out altogether. “What has the Red Cross done
for us ?” he asked.
Aid. W. McElhone: More for you than any.
Aid. Farrell: What have they done for me?
Aid. McElhone: They were away and fought for
you.
Aid. Farrell: Did I ask these men to save me?
Aid. McElhone: No.
Aid. Farrell: No, I took d —d fine care.
The odd thing about this outbreak is the
indifference with which it has been received.
The O’Farrell has not repudiated the piti-
ful fustian attributed to him, nor has there
been any noticeable indignation among those
at whom it was aimed. Apparently the
abuse of such a person is regarded as a
negligible form of flattery—aldermen of his
kidney being two a penny, nobody cares a
dump when any of them rants. But some-
body ought to care; for if the present riotous
regime continues the municipality will find
itself in the receiver’s hands.
The Allegedly and Absurdly Brittle
Empire.
Dear Bulletin,— -There is too much excite-
ment and superfluous perspiration in this
world, and Prime Minister Hughes contri-
butes, for his size and apparent dryness, an
amazing amount of the perspiration.
TWO MOKE OF' THE BOYS COME HOME.
“Crashing to earth here and there, spending days in hospital, shedding bits of their machine in
deserts and swamps and forests, they bumped their way across the world in a machine unfitted for the
great journey, and by sheer dogged pluck they reached their native land.” —Sydney Sun on the remark-
able Parer and Mclntosh flight.
“Thank Heaven, we’ve still got the rudder left!”
jj U6HES ; s 0 f an excitable type and easily
dbver t e d into by-paths, and having had his
leg pulled by Daniel Mannix he slops
ovbr at tj mes abo ut Ireland in a way that
amoun t s t Q ba thos. This was a recent out-
pouring at Bendigo
j am no £ g o ing to say Ireland has not had
grievances but I am —
<p be bl te lamented Parkes would have said:
“Hi Ham,” and it would have been more
f Ol - c i b le that way
j rrev ocably opposed to a republic in Ireland. I will
fight it tooth and nail by every means in my power
because I say that means the dismemberment of the
Empire, and the dismemberment of the Empire means
the destruction of Australia. Archbishop Man-
®ixy " '
It IS . picturesque, no doubt, but neither the
Empire nor Australia is so brittle as all
that, and it is absurd to suggest that this
country should be terrorised into doing, or
helping to do, Edward Carson s job for
him under the delusion that its existence is
?*■ s l & he. Nor is Ireland ot such overwhelm-
in S importance that its abandonment would
ma l e the ruinous and disastrous difference
or k a .sh that people like Hughes imagine,
™ Empire was a smaller and more
®concern than it is. The wild dis-
vates tl,e case ' »<*»«» W -ffi
age' LTthft
makes the problem more difficult' to handle.
No bit of land with water round it could
avoid getting swelled head if persistently
taught in this fashion that it and it alone
was the keystone of such a vast imperial
arch . Even Goat Island iu Sydnev Harbor,
0 r Gabo would begin to “feel its' oats” in
the circumstances. Every great State has
a t some time abandoned territory, either
through absolute compulsion or from expedi-
eney, because the place, though not abso-
lutely lost, was more trouble than it was
worth. The places that Britain has held
and let go again (though Britain was never
an abandoning character) would, 'if gathered
together, make quite a big country in them-
selves, with frost at one end and luxuriant
tropical vegetation at the other. There is
nothing gained by making the Irish ques-
tion a treason or a gospel or a fever
or even a ghost and a cold sweat. It is
a simple matter of expediency, if principle
is left out as a thing that the parties con-
cerned seem quite unlikely to agree upon.
One has just to consider whether it wouldn’t
be cheaper and less messy to-
Recognise the little republic amid great applause.
Withdraw all the uncongenial people, who, after
all, wouldn’t made a very big army if judged by the
religious statistics, the republic paying in bonds for
the property they leave behind.
Cash the bonds (the British Government has been
cashing bigger things than that once a month for
some years now).
Explain to the Irish who remain in the Empire
that they have automatically become alien subjects,
with no local political rights whatever.
Send home to the republic a multitude of these
aliens, in order to make room for the uncongenial
people that were brought back from Ireland.
Pay them for the property they leave behind with
the same bonds, which would thus go back whence
they came.
Close the volume with a bang, and leave Ireland to
be either a shining light or a shocking example, or
anything else it pleased.
Then if troubles arose 50 or 100 years hence
they would be outside affairs, and the two
countries could go for each other cheaply
after the orthodox manner of island States
or States with a coast-line. That is to say,
if the luck was on John Bull’s side and
he was deeply peeved, his ships could lay
Half,.of anrl Tfowtr nnfl pnhtin Pnrtr in
Belfast and Dei ry ana Dublin and Loik in
ashes, instead of chasing shadows and binn
Feiners over the face of the country in
motor-waggons. Belfast could be cindered
and ashed when there were only enemies
in it It can t now when there are so many
friends (or disagreeable acqiiaintances) in
it. For all the world or the chapter of acci-
dents knows to the-contrary, an autonomous
0I ’ H ° me led Inland might be m ? re diffi-
cult than the piesent one, but an lndepe -
+ ?r- e la.nd should be as simple aP °b
T° l^L t Tn^^ eland ° r Slcll y-- Yours ’ etc ”
James Edmond.
Syphilis and Alcohol.
Dear Bulletin,— Every word that “Gun-
neb” says (B. 5/8/’2O) is absolutely true;
>et he ifiight as well say that the ea th .
flat as withstand my chief argument, that
the spread of syphilis is mainly due to
alcohol. I am neither a prohibitionist nor a
w owser, I abhoi both, and gladlj take my
glass and my pipe with the next man. _ Yet
what I said is absolutely and undeniably
true: that the normal man who has had no
alcohol has sufficient self-control to keep
clear o- the street fames; and whatever
alleged specialists may say, syphilis is most
often contracted from street-walkers. I do
not deny the importance of the amateur; but
I maintain, and will maintain to my
death, that the greatest source of
V.D. is the prostitute. All these girls
have V.D. I say “all,” and mean it. If a
man does not catch it from them, then either
he is lucky or he has been very careful. As
for the men being teetotal at the Cape, and yet
catching V.D., that is a non-sequitur; I was
at both the Cape and at Durban, and though
the hotels were shut yet I could have got as
much liquor as I liked, and indeed many men
brought it on board and got happily drunk,
But young men just returning from a war,
excited and in crowds, are not normal men;
and “Gunner’s” argument has nothing to do
with what I said. Neither has the rest of
his ad captandum letter. All this hifalutin
about V.D. being as great an enemy as the
Germans may be, and possibly is, perfectly
true; yet it does not in the least affect the
argument that the existence of V.D. and
alcohol is inseparably up together,
and we shall never get rid of V.D. without
first seriously tackling the drink evil. More-
over, whenever a man cast an aspersion on
some possibly perfectly healthy girl whom he
had met in England socially, I used strongly
to doubt that man’s sense of accuracy, and to
reserve in my own mind the supposition that
probably he was ashamed to own up that he
had been a hog; or else that he had not
thought it necessary to take precautions; or
else that the girl was not what she said.
—Yours, Macquarie Street.
«
“Cam” hurls his silk hat into the ring:—
Richard Arthur, M.D., M.L.A., in a recent
Bulletin, says that thousands of stunted children in
Sydney live on tea and treacle, and would be benefited
by McGirr’s Motherhood Bill. I’ve been 30 years
practising in working-men’s suburbs, and never met-
any of these ill-nourished infants. They all get
good food when the politicians let ’em. Scotland, the
land of Arthur’s forefathers, brought up a sturdy
race on oatmeal, fish and potatoes. Is he helping
his State to secure a constant supply of these?
Thousands of the children he weeps over spend hours
weekly in stuffy picture-shows, eating colored lollies
and absorbing doubtful lessons from the screen.
How can he be sure that McGirr’s donative will be
spent on anything better than sops like these? How-
can McGirr be sure that it won’t be squandered on
racing and ribbons? Stunted growth is caused by
more deadly things than the tea and treacle A.
raves about. What, for instance, has Dr. Arthur
done to make the Venereal Diseases Act a piece of
practical legislation? In the teeth of medical
opinion, politicians have funked compulsory notifica-
tion for fear of hurting wowser constituents. It’s
all a matter of votes. Six bob a week for the baby
represents votes; compulsory notification of V.D.
doesn’t.
»
Sydney Telegraph the other morning found
tor itself an occasion to review the British
expedition to Antwerp :
, .Tfl er ® is n ° denying that Mr. Churchill has manv
bniiiant qualities, but his judgment has been shown
to be deplorably bad, particularly in the matter of
the Antwerp adventure.
Churchill has made mistakes, as all men
of his temperament must; but more and more
it becomes clearer that if ever a nation took
a slight chance and earned a tremendous
profit in return Britain did over this affair.
G. H. Perris, the London Chronicle’s bril-
liant correspondent, in his just-published
“Battle of the Marne,” gives the diversion as
one of the main factors in the ruin of Ger-
many’s early hopes. It “caused the deten-
tion of two corps (the 3rd and 4th Reserve)
before the Scheldt fortress” (p. 44), and it
held “bodies of troops that might have turned
the balance in the South” (p. 105). Further,
lan Hamilton remarks in his “Gallipoli
Diary”:—.
Very likely the next great war will have begun
before we realise that the five days’ delay in the
fall of Antwerp saved Calais.... Any comfort our
people may enjoy from being out of cannon-shot of
the Germans they owe to the imagination, bluff and
persuasiveness of Winston Churchill and to the
gallant Naval Division.
The men of the Naval Division performed two
inestimably valuable services. They enabled
70,000 Belgians and their King to be con-
voyed across Flanders and behind the Yser,
failing which the whole lot would have fallen
into the hands of the Germans; and their
arrival restored British prestige in Belgium.
And it badly needed restoring; before this
expedition appeared Englishmen and the
British flag were being freely hooted in
places like Antwerp. As against these re-
sults there were but 312 casualties, not. of
course, counting the 2000 men who walked
over the frontier when things got desperate
and were interned in Holland.
♦
“Senex” : Let me add a word to what David
Lindsay says about the North of Australia
(B. 15/7/’2O). I’ve lived in the uttermost
part of Queensland for over eight years, and
health and strength have both improved out
of all knowledge in that time. Regarding
rice, several farmers near Tolga have been
growing it as a regular thing for the last
few years, and there have been returns of
a ton to the acre; it doesn’t need a swamp
either. Get a decent rainy season, and the
crop is assured. As for cotton, while
Hunter and Theodore wonder whether the
State they’re supposed to know all about
will grow it, old Sam Trass, of Carbeen,
gets six cornsacks full of beautiful silky
stuff twice a year from four bushes planted
five years ago, in poor, sandy forest country.
Old Sam is over 70, by the way, and reckons
another 20 years in this climate will about
finish him. Then there’s jute, hemp, coffee,
cocoa and scores of other things. If we
can’t, or won’t, occupy this empty North
it’ll go. That’s as sure as it is that the
Devi] made codlin-moth to consume God’s
little apples.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
\vould give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
Were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
wHo would earn over
£5,000,000
per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE SAVING GRACE.
“Hooray, hooray! Ewing hasn’t spoiled
everything! We can still go on agitat-
ing—two of our comrades remain in
gaol /”
The fairly successful opening of the new
Peace Loan moved Sydney Telegraph thus:
The first lesson to be learned from the meeting in
Martiii-place is that, two years after the war, the
admiration of the people for the soldiers has not
declined at all.
Assuredly not. But admiration for the
Government has declined 14 per cent. —24
per cent, if the value of the conversion privi-
leges attached 'to the loan are counted in.
A rather extreme section of British Labor
tried to touch noses in a friendly fashion
with the Moscow Soviet, but got barked at
and bitten for its pains. Nothing but abso-
lute communism—the confiscation and com-
mon ownership of Gregory McGirr’s property
—will satisfy the Soviet,' and British Labor
was told that it was a capitalistic tyrant.
Of course the Russian leaders live in pal-
aces while the masses don’t, but then these
palaces are the property of the people. The
leaders admit that. It merely happens that
the people aren’t using them just now and
aren’t likely to.
Under our mad system of Party Govern-
ment the orthodox Opposition leader op-
poses everything, even the Kingdom of
Heaven. When Victoria had a £6,000,000
irSftnSr 10 ®, due in U° nd<j n it paid off
±,>00,000 and got the rest renewed, half of
U Melbourne at 1 per cent, less than
JV. , S - , Wales lately paid. Then George
Michael Prendergast, who never renewed
anything save perhaps a pair of boots, did
lus regulation bear-with-a-sore-head act be-
cause the Government hadn’t done better
Any sort of bear trained to stand on its
bind legs and rumble whenever a Minister
stopped speaking, could be an average
Opposition leader. 6
Premier Barwell, of S. Aus., can be as
mild as skimmed milk, but last week he
boiled over Somebody, hinted that an
Increase of Salaries Bill would go through
Hying, whereupon Barwell, who has a deficit
to fund, remarked that he wouldn’t be a
party to members dipping their hands into
the public purse at their own sweet will,
it would be absolutely indecent,” he said
angrily, and I won’t do it. Not without
consulting the electors, anyhow.” And then
members recalled with horror that the elec-
tors had been similarly “consulted” years
before, and had turned down the proposed
increase by an appalling majority. ~The
Labor party replied to Barwell with a want-
of-confidence motion. No “democrat” could
have any confidence in a Premier who talked
of consulting the people on a matter of that
land.
Bought off” was George Fuller’s comment
when Beeby accepted a N. S. Wales Indus-
trial Court judgeship last week. It would
have been truer if the Opposition leader had
said that Beeby was crushed out. It
wouldn’t have been so bad if he had been
only crushed politically; but he was made
to suffer professionally as well. If he hadn’t
been it isn’t likely that he would have allowed
himself to be “bought off” with a minor judge
ship; so if there are any bricks to be
thrown they should be aimed not at Beeby,
but at Fuller’s own friends.
W. J. Vowles is titular leader of the
Opposition in Queensland, but he has been
feeling rather out of it since the Way back
members of the Assembly decided by 11 to
3 to form a Country Party “separate
and distinct.” Vowles attended the meeting
as a rural rep., but Cocky carried the resolu-
tion against his advice and vote, and Vowles
is dazedly wondering whether he is still
Leader of the Opposition.or merely a wander-
ing voice. In Westralia Cocky has a work-
ing arrangement with the Government,
although nominally an independent group,
and things seem to be trending the same
way in the National Parliament. So there
may be still balm in Gilead for Vowles.
Having only four months of its existence
left and heaps of work to do, the Vic. State
Parliament naturally spent a whole month in
purposeless hen-cackle over the address-in-
reply. Australia has had 209 Ministries and
every one of them knew that this debate was
a silly nuisance, yet only one has suppressed
it. That was when Irvine called the Vic.
Parliament together to also suppress the rail-
way strikers.
Acting-Premier Fihelly (Q.) put up a
record of his own. After tearing off the old
garment of “disloyalty” he sent impassioned
orders ahead to the general effect that the
people were to look gladder than those of
any other State to see hi.s Royal Highness,
besought that the plain Mayor of Brisbane
should be made a lord, and made it clear
that, despite his Government’s objection to
titles, still Queensland ought to have its
share if any were going. A really sardonic
prince—the Louis XI. sort—would have
knighted Fihelly on the spot with his knife
and fork.
Hard on the heels of his encouraging
reference to the possibility of a Black
Wednesday, N. S. Wales Premier Storey
cheerily intimates that “we must tax all,
from the highest to the lowest, in order to
carry out our developmental policy.” In
Westralia the Collie Miners’ Union has de-
cided by a six to one majority to “refuse to
fill in returns or pay Federal or State income-
taxes until the exemption is raised to £400.”
If this passive-resistance movement spreads
to N. S. Wales John will have to discover
that he was misreported. or something of
the sort.
From the public gallery:—
The average thousand-pounder in the Representatives
isn’t interested in the application of science to
industry. When the Science and Industry Bill was
under “consideration” there was a steady exodus to
the refreshment-room, and the most frequent observa-
tion during the debate was “I think we ought to
have a quorum.” Yet the subject of the Bill is of
vital moment to Australia, and rattling good
speeches were made by Arthur Blakeley and Alex-
ander Hay. Hay’s life is a practical illustration of
what can be done in agriculture and other branches
of industry by the adoption of scientific principles.
He introduced pasteurisation into N. S. Wales, put
400 tenant farmers on the Berry estate, nursed them
until they became prosperous freeholders, and has
done notable things in the copper-mining business
among others. But he didn’t secure the ear of the
House until he told it a funny story. Once, in
addressing a meeting of farmers, he said “there are
cows that pay and cows that don’t pay.” Whereat
a storekeeper in the audience interjected, “I know
all about the cows that don’t pay.” The other
Representatives laughed at this, but soon relapsed
into indifference when Hay tried to instruct, instead
of to amuse them. The man who can make two blades
of grass grow where one grew before is out of his
element in the Federal Parliament. What they
want there is a paid jester who can tickle the cars
of his fellow-members when they are feeling bored.
This is better. Martin Hannah is to have
another run on August 21 in the pre-selec-
tion Labor ballot for Collingwood, the cen-
tral executive of the A.L.P. having decided
that when McAllen was chosen recently the
friends of that candidate had canvassed or
otherwise transgressed the rules.
Someone should really pass the plate
round for the price of a cablegram to Lloyd
Geo., telling him not to talk unfathomable'
bosh. At latest advices he said he was
bringing in a Bill to settle the Irish ques-
tion by the “most drastic” action. Every-
body knows that the man with the uneasy
Welsh Nonconformist conscience thinks far
too much about his soul
to be “most” drastic or
even much drastic. As-
suming that he and the
King and some others
could get over their
scruples and were willing
to take chances in the
next world, the matter of
Ireland could be fixed for
good and all in a few
weeks. Ail that is needed
is to bring to the dis-
tressful isle the entire
Gurkha and other weird
brown forces of the
Empire, inpluding the
Mahrattas and Baluchis
and the 6th Jat Light
Infantry and ,the 2§th
Dogras and the rest, and
tell them to wade in and
keep the change. The
British Government can
hold Ireland and settle
the long-outstanding Irish
problem if it doesn’t
mind being damned—
which may not be so pain-
ful, after all, though it
sounds annoving and per-
manent. But if it
worries about its soul and its here-
after it can’t. The, problem will outlive it
as it outlived other people who didn’t like
being damned, and it won’t even diminish
much, though it may have rests like any
other geyser.
Premier Storey reckons that N.S.W. State
politicians, and presumably State Ministers,
are underpaid. Well, what is fair payment
for a Premier who, by his own words, didn’t
realise till he got into office that loans
weren t the same as revenue because they
had to be repaid some day?
Uninfluenced by the barracking of Bill-
jims in the S-tate Service, and risking their
wrath at the coming general election, Vic.
Treasurer McPherson declines to recommend
the Cabinet to cash Hughes’s electioneering
gratuity bonds. He has no £544,000 (the
amount required) to spare, he says, and he
IS , b l°w? d , be is going to borrow a cartload
of Collinses!
Recognising that it is sheer humbug to
oppose the legalising of the tote while col-
lecting revenue from betting in the shape
or tees from bookies and stamp duty on
tickets handed to punters, the Lawson Gov-
ernment is inclined to cease regarding it as
an open question. Nobody need be sur-
prised if the Government policy, after the
dissolution, includes a Tote Bill. The V R C
evidently expects something, for it ’ has
decided to go on with preliminary arrange-
i-he Speck’s political barometer indicates
unsettled weather. It is hinted that Pre-
mier Lee s newly-acquired title or something
has made him a little top-heavy, and his Cabi-
net finds it increasingly difficult to steer him
along right lines.” As a consequence there
is some talk of reconstruction. Speaker
Lvans, the lusty-lunged little mariner who
once miraculously held the Premiership for
upwards of five years, might not feel indig-
nant if asked to vacate his present perch
to lead a reorganised Nationalist (or Lib-
eral) party. If anything of the sort really
happened the next Speaker: might be Sadler,
present Chairman of Committees, and the
nwT d . include Marshall
PL-Bi ' n Ahltsitt (Darwin) and perhaps
.vliniiv - a unwowserish persons and not
wliollj incapable.
According to General Booth, who lately
came here to be a heavy father to us, “the
Australian people are wonderful, and if
they can only get rid of drink, which is pos-
sible, they have an immense future before
them.” It may be so. Still Byzantium was
the centre of a.rt and science and literature
and the hub of the world’s civilisation when
the Greek had it and took an occasional nip
of the wine of Chios there. Then the Dry
Mohammedan got it and made it an unlet-
tered, untidy, bug-haunted, dog-infested dere-
lict. Dry Persia isn’t, the land of Darius
the Great. Tartary was quite a home of
civilisation and enlightenment at one
and places like Samarcand, now small col-
lections of hovels, were names to conjure
with ; but tlrat was before the Dry Folk
came. A great many even doubt if the tee-
totallers made Palestine or Egypt much
THE WRONG ADDRESS.
better; anyhow, the Drinking Folk cleared
their Government out in the name of com-
mon humanity. Russia went teetotal a few
years ago. Then it developed hydrophobia or
something, and now it looks a greater dan-
ger to the world than the Dry Turk did
some centuries earlier. If the Rechabites
we meet were a shade less dreary the posi-
tion might be more encouraging; anyhow,
judgment is suspended with the remark that
the world hasn’t shown one really encouraging
Dry sample to date. The English person,
like Booth, generally judges the drinks of all
nations by his own dreadful old pub, which
supplies neither food nor accommodation.
Intermediate hospitals are nearer than
they have ever been before in Vic., as the
B.M.A. has announced that it has no objec-
tion to them, provided they are controlled
by the medical staffs, and fixed charges
covering all exes, are made. Treasurer
McPherson has taken power in his Charities
Bill for the State to establish such institu-
tions if Private Enterprise holds back. At
present there are no half-way houses
between “charities” and expensive private
hospitals, and, as J. M. Davies put it when
he was Acting-Premier, a man of small
means, having to decide whether he will rob
himself or the public, usually decides on
the latter, and salves his conscience, if he
has one, by giving a donation.
The Queensland Public Works Commis-
sion has no consideration for Theodore and
his financial difficulties. It has recommended
the construction of eight miles of railway
from Callan to Moongan at an estimated
cost of £150,000 —and Bananaland is a -
gauge State. At this rate it would be a
lot cheaper to build roads and tractors, and
the same is probably true of a good many
Australian railway lines which it is pro-
posed to unify at immense cost. Trunk
lines will doubtless have to be standardised,
but the expense is going to stagger even a
I renders’ Conference, and the chances are
that roads and motor-traction would be a
very much better proposition for the coun-
try than altering the gauge of the bankrupt
stretch from Hogan’s Bog to Bummer’s
V/ee*, or thru stjng out a new spur at
£15,000 a mile from Froghollow to Sudden
Jerk. In Westralia Henry Teesdale Smith
used to construct bush railways on the 3ft
bin. gauge for £BOO a mile. But his object
was to provide railways, not jobs.
SECTARIANISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our fair land has no monstrous thing
To snatch us screaming in the night,
No fearful fowl abroad may wing
To rend our children in its might;
But wearied of so sweet a place
We make a monster triple-fanged,
To gaze upon whose dreadful face
May drive good men to wish they might
Straight from so bestial a sight
Be truly hanged.
It is a leprous, bleary beast;
The slug, the viper and such things
As creep in foetid depths, and feast
On foulest carrion, each brings
Abominated attributes—
The vulture’s warty growth, the grime
Of matted, foul, cave-dwelling brutes,
The odor of the polecat vile,
Chimpanzee's hair, and tiger’s smile,
The python’s slime.
This prurient, disgusting curse
Ye harbor in your homes, a pet!
While small and clannish faiths ye nurse,
It gibbers, and ye hear it fret
With long-drawn bowlings. It would sink
Its black fangs in ,a neighbor’s heart,
Or tear him shrieking down, and drink
The hot blood from his teeming veins,
So leering like a joss it reigns
A thing apart.
The fell, sectarian Moloch this is,
Its shotted eyes are hot with hate,
All spite with serpent tongue it hisses.
No sacrifices serve to sate
Its loathsome appetite. It spews
Mephitic and pestiferous leaven
On all sweet things, turns fairest views
To places of black torment where
Brave men each other’s faces tear
To please high heaven !
Oh, men, who pride yourselves and sing
As sons of no mean land, have grace
To take this smutty, obscene thing
And burn it in the market place;
To drive its stealthy minister,
Its priest and acolyte to dwell
In black and noisome caverns where
They well may reign as Satan’s pimps,
With all the little horned imps
That ’scape from Hell!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


THE RETURN OF THE MUTTON.
“Billy had a little lamb,
Its fleece was white as snow;
Whichever way that Billy went
The lamb was sure to go.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
bhas;
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal. Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments. Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
• containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS. EC. 2
A. J. SMITH, London Manager and Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agen*).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING. ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS, BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NQBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuso
Detonators
Cartridges
When Instructing your Solicitor to draw YOUR WILL
direct him to name
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
as YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the Assets and obtain a degree
of Security for proper Administration far beyond the power of
the private Trustee. An explanatory Booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at Perpetual Trustee. Chambers,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Manager: K. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Victoria: —
t~ Dividends—^
Pref. Ord. To
June. Profits. 5 p.c. 5 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
1908.. *£99,984 £20,838 £53,062 £26,084 £218,574
1909.. 90,999 20,838 53,062 17,099 235,673
5J p.c. 54 p.c.
1910.. 100,210 22,922 58,368 18,920 254,593
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1911.. 107,363 25,006 63,674 18,683 273,276
1912.. 120,514 25,006 63,674 31,834 305,110
1913.. 129,053 25,006 63,674 40,373 345,483
1914.. 126,539 25,006 63,674 37,859 383,342
54 p.c. 54 P-c.
1915.. 112,402 22,922 58,368 31,112 414,454
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. 104,937 25,006 63,074 16,257 430,711
1917.. 106,927 25,006 63,674 18,247 448,958
1918.. 117,266 25,006 63,674 28,586 477,544
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
1919.. 133,978 29,174 74,288 30,516 508,060
1920.. 142,442 29,174 74,288 38,980 547,040
During the whole course of that table
(which, now that the bank balances only
once each year, is made to show results for
full 12-month terms) paid capital has re-
mained stationary at £1,478,010, made up of
41,676 fully paid £lO prefs. and 212,250 £lO
ordinaries paid to £5. The former represent
the one-fifth of old deposits which creditors
took in scrip when the bank re-opened its
doors after the ’93 debacle. They are en-
titled to a 5 p.c. preference div., but follow
the ordinaries in any distribution over and
above that rate. When 7 p.c. has been paid
to the prefs. for five consecutive years they
lose their rights, though only as to capital
after the ordinaries have become fully paid.
The 7 p.c. rate has now been paid for two
years, so, if everything goes well, by 1923
both classes of shares will be on the same
footing. It took practically a quarter of a
century after the re-arrangement to get the
pref.’s div. to 7 p.c., for the Bank of Victoria
had not been working on a basis which
would provide much feed for shareholders.
At the time the table opens the management
had the use of only £3 10s. of the public’s
money for each £ of its own. But gradually
the business has been built up, until at the
latest balance the bank was holding £5 6s. sd.
of the public’s money for every £ of its own.
As a result, the past year’s net profits, before
clipping £5OOO off the book value of premises
and dropping £2OOO into an officers’ provident
fund, were half as large again as they were
in 1908.
The growth of the Bank of Victoria during
the six years prior to the war and over the
same number of years since is shown in this
comparison of the balance-sheet figures:—
Liabilities,
1908. 1914. 1920.
Notes .. -.. £120,852 £9,138 £6,674-
Bills, etc 523,907 667,466 1,188,980
Deposits at interest 3.813,985 4,366,077 5,235,681
Free deposits . . 1,654,561 2,481,461 4,647,353
Liquid assets . . £1,884,546 £2,654,948 £6,197,741
Advances .. . . 5,642,7 y 6,431,156 6,604,725
Premises, etc. . . 415,553 343,728 358,004
The striking feature of that comparison is
the small expansion of the advances compared
with the volume of new money which has
found _ its way into the bank. With the
advances shown above for the past year are
included £212,844 accommodation to Govern-
ments to finance the wheat pools and £331,875
advanced to customers to take up War Loan
—both of a particularly safe class and
almost eligible for inclusion with the liquid
assets. Disregarding these loans, the book
value of advances has expanded only
£47,295 in 12 years, or but £32,000-odd in
excess of surplus profits which have mean-
time been accumulated. In other words,
practically all the £4,965,383 of new money
entrusted to the bank’s care has been kept
liquid. So, whereas in 1908 the Bank of
Victoria was holding only 31 p.c. of its
liabilities in that form, and had increased
the proportion to only 35.3 p.c. when the
war began, at the /latest balance almost 56
p.c. was in handy form, not including the more
or less liquid wheat and War Loan advances.
That substantial proportion of fluid assets,
considered in conjunction with the small ex-
tent of liabilities in relation to the bank’s
own funds, makes the position very solid
from the point of view of the bank’s
creditors.
Such strengthening of the liquid position
in normal times would have had only a mild
effect on profits; yet this bank’s gross profits
have expanded in this way: 1908. £188.148:
1920,' £291.303. The Victoria’s widened in-
terests have, of course, produced much larger
exchange and other earnings, and, no doubt,
advances are more profitable than formerly.
But a big factor in the making of larger pro-
fits has been the increased earning power
of gilt-edged securities included among liquid
assets. Prior to the war the banks’ op-
portunities of getting their liquid assets into
safe and profitable employment were
narrowly limited. But during the past six
years the demands of the Commonwealth
Government have at times strained their
resources. This shows what has happened
in the Bank of Victoria :
1908. 1914. 1920.
Coin, bullion, cash
and Australian
notes .. .. £1,001,176 £2,031,882 £2,524,913
Treasury bills and
money at short
call on London 2,088,614
Public securities .. 183,040 250,240 724,002
Bills . . . . 178,684 322,843 549,448
Other liquid assets 78,649 49,984 310,764
This bank’s holding of interest-bearing public-
securities has not expanded so rapidly as
that of many other banks; nevertheless
£473,762 more is now invested that way than
in 1914, and a net 44 p.c. on that lot means an
additional £21,319 per annum, while the
money temporarily tied up in London has
been earning very high interest rates.
The Commercial Bank of Australia :
Profits. Pref. Added
(less loss on divs. Written to Re- Re-
Assets Trust). (3 p.c.) Off. serves, serves.
June, Written off, £295,000 1
1909.. £108,790 £03,520 £25,000 ) ~
1910.. 109,304 63,520 50,000 3,715
1911.. 118,361 63,520 56,000 3,556
1912.. 124,191 63,520 58,000 £2,671 6,227
1913.. 134,968 63,620 70,000 1,448 7,675
(34 p.c.)
1914.. 131,308 74,107 55,000 2,201 9,876
(4 p.c.)
1915.. 109,394 84,094 25,000 9,576
1916.. 130,526 84,694 45,000 9,408
1917.. 134,693 84,694 50,000 9,407
National Bank of Tus. purchased
1918.. 145,773 84,694 60,000 1,079 10,486
1919.. 167,268 84,694 80,000 2,574 13,060
1920.. 197,892 84,694 110,000 3,198 16,258
That table, revised to exhibit results for 12-
month terms (the, C.B.A. has fallen into line
with other local banks and now balances only
once each year), goes back to the time when
the form of accounts was altered to show at.
a glance the holes still left as a result of the
upheaval in the ’nineties. This bank, the
most severely injured of the survivors, was
the first to reconstruct after that trouble, and
in cleaning up the mess it didn’t use the same
same sort of broom as the others. It had
crashed .so badly that even if all the old capi-
tal had been got in and written off its affairs
would not have been straightened out. As it
was, after a painful struggle to get in calls,
all but £95,659 of the old capital was re-
garded as having been lost beyond hope. The
old depositors were invited to accept 3 p.c.
pref. shares, eligible for a maximum 4 p.c.
when conditions permitted, in place of por-
tion of their money, though there were not
assets to represent a lot of that £2,117,350,
and it had to be made good out of future
profits if it was to be made good at all. The
worst of the wreckage had been passed over
to a separate co., the Special Assets Trust,
the bank being responsible for its debts. Just
prior to the time the table opens this Trust
estimated its belongings to be worth £870,000 ;
but, since its liabilities amounted to over
2f millions, the bank was faced with the
problem of earning profits to (1) feed the
prefs. with a 3 p.c. div. (=£63,520 p.a.), and
(2) make good £1,080,390, representing the
Assets Trust deficiency in excess of its own
accumulated reserves of £306,118. In the
table above the amount of profit used to re-
place the deficiency is shown as written off,
though in the same column is included the
£IO,(XX) which regularly comes off premises
each year. But the table does not take
into account the remaining total deficiency at
each balance.
A more .satisfactory record of the bank’s
progress in shaking off the incubus is given
by this compilation :
Pref. To
Divs. Written Reduce
Profits. (3 p.e.) Off. Deficit. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1910.. 127,537 63,520 10,000 54,107 1,004,833
1911.. 129,274 63,520 10,000 55,754 949,079
1912.. 125,870 - 63,520 10,000 52,350 896,729
1913.. 136,065 63,520 10,000 62,545 884,184
(3i p.c.)
1914.. 147,206 74,107 10,000 63,099 771,085
(4 p.c.)
1915.. 109,692 84,694 10,000 19.99 S 751,087
1916.. 129,529 84,694 10,000 34,835 716.252
1917.. 142,693 84,694 10,000 47,999 668,253
1918.. 160,773 84,694 10,000 66,079 602,174
1919.. 167,268 84,694 10.000 72,574 529,600
1920.. 197,892 84,694 10,000 103,198 426,402
All the ordinary and £330,743 of the pref.
capital is thus still unrepresented by assets
—at least, visible assets. That qualifica-
tion is necessary because it is almost cer-
tain that general-manager Heron has a bit
of loan-boom profits up his sleeve. The
happenings of recent years have had a big
effect on the affairs of the C.B.A. Enhanced
property values enabled it to unload some
of the old dfibris at glittering prices, while
natural expansion of business and war
finance have made profit-earning easier. If all
continues to go well, the happy day is in
sight when this bank will line up with the
others which have shaken off their old
troubles. At the present rate of progress the
directors should in June. 1924, be in a posi-
tion to present a clean sheet. But the most
cheerful optimist cannot guarantee the
future. Post-war troubles ac.e driving this
heavily-piortgaged continent further towards
national bankruptcy. . Meantime, the politi-
cians, Federal and State, seem mostly con-
cerned, not with making an honest attempt
to remedy our present financial ills, but as to
how they can borrow more, and thus blow the
bubble bigger. The position is becoming
worse every week; Governments are making
no attempt to spend within their means;
nor is the public. Repatriation operations
are adding to the dangers; the wholesale
purchase of land for Digger-settlers is so
inflating values that the C.B.A. is becoming
concerned and is “closely watching the posi-
tion.” House-property values have been
boomed in the same way. Six years'of hard
borrowing—and most States had the loan
mania long before the war—has given the
public several hundreds of paper millions
with which to speculate and push up values.
The stretching of the national credit and the
consequently inflation having almost reached
the limit, unless the public swiftly realises
the dangers and begins to live within its
income, another Black Wednesday, which
Premier John Storey in a hard-up moment
recalled the other day, is more than possible.
Until the Commonwealth shows indica-
tions of having definitely avoided the bog,
there can be no assurance that the C.B.A.
has shaken itself free of trouble. But how
very well the bank has done during recent
years is indicated by the amazingly rapid
growth of its figures:—
Liabilities.
1910. 1915. 1920.
Notes .. .. £215,622 £39,124 £68,829
Bills, etc 400,826 503,080 619,280
Free deposits . . 3,006,562 3,835,906 9,626,954
Deposits at interest 2,488,448 3,256,063 6,750,184
Old debts.. .. 1,760,170 36,301 Nil
Liquid assets .. 2,948,383 3,624,432 8,766,020
Advances . . . . 5,092,034 5,071,075 9,634,480
Premises, etc.. . . 430,608 462,240 493,200
Old bank assets . 640,000 16,998 Nil
During the five years to 1915 the C.B.A.
got an additional £1,59(3,959 of deposits;
during the past five years £9,285,169 more.
This confidence on the part of the public
has been embarrassing, for the bank’s own
funds have been rapidly becoming inadequate
in proportion to its liabilities, judged by
accepted standards. In normal times it is
reckoned that a bank shouldn’t hold more
than £8 of the public’s money for each £
of its own. In 1915 the C.B.A. held £5
Is. 4d.; at the latest balance, £9 6s. lOd.
Under these circumstances morq, capital will
have to be got. But not only is this bank
in the singular position of having no visible
assets to represent its ordinary capital, on
which no div. has been paid since the ’nine-
ties, but it has no calling power. Under
ordinary circumstances, a concern in which
there is nothing to represent capital and in
which there is no immediate hope of divs.
would have very poor chances of raising new
capital. But this bank is disclosing profits
which indicate a very fine feast for ordinary
shareholders when the clean-up is complete.
Last year’s surplus profits, after paying the
pref. divs., writing £lO,OOO off pre-
mises and voting £5OOO to a staff
provident fund, were equal to almost
108 p.c. on the ordinary capital of £95,659.
Wit over two millions of cheap. 4 p.c.
prei. capital at work, these ordinaries would
naturally be on an excellent wicket So long
as money remained dear. Such prospects
would almost certainly attract new capital,
though of course it is most unlikely that
the directors would decide on any excessive-
looking rate of div. For some time the
problem of new capital has had the “serious
consideration” of the directors, and they now
talk of “proposals which will be beneficial
to the general interests of the bank and be
acceptable to both classes of shareholders.”
Aot unlikely, the directors will suggest that
it is good enough to get the ordinaries on
the dividend list again. But there are
ticklish problems ahead of any proposition.
The Articles provide that each share,
whether £lO pref. or 10s. ordinary, shall
carry the same voting power. At present
the prefs. predominate, but if they agreed to
the issue of only a further 20,000-odd of 10s.
ordinaries, under the present arrangement
they would lose control. So the cheap 4 p.c.
prefs., being in a position to drive a hard
bargain, may receive some concessions in
exchange for relinquishing portion of their
rights. The market is sniffing something of
the sort, for whereas a year ago these £lO
prefs. were being exchanged for about £6 95.,
and notwithstanding that money has mean-
time become dearer, sellers have lately been
asking up to 15s. more. Incidentally, though
no div. on the ordinaries is definitely in
sight, and there is as yet not a penn’orth of
assets to represent ordinary capital. 445. is
being offered for these 10s. shares. About
years ago they w r ere being picked up at
under 15s.
Starkey’s, Ltd., brewers of ginger-beer
and aerated-water, cordial manufacturers,
etc., (Sydney). The co. began with £B9BB of
its capital represented by goodwill: —
June, Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit
1914 £6,623 10 p.c. = £2BOB £3495 8668
1915 . 4,590 Nil 4049 8127
1916:: 3!065 Nil 4219 9281
1917.. 5,080 Nil 341 6 <677
1918.. 5,735 5 p.c. = £2250 -3465 7657
1919.. 7,780 74 ~ „ 3375 4068 7320
1920.. 11,581 10" ~ „ 4501 4627 4867
That table goes back to the time a public co.
took over this very old business; it is so
ancient that the story goes that when the
original Starkey and a brotlier-in-law de-
bided to set out independently in the soft-
drinks trade the latter selected Parramatta
as his stand, believing that that town was to
be the future capital of the colony, while
Starkey decided to chance prospects at the
little port-settlement. Though the Starkey
family is still interested, it is no longer in
active management, having dropped out early
in the career of this co., which took over in
1913. The public had been invited in to
provide funds to secure a suburban freehold
factory in place of the old congested city
leasehold. But the co. struck trouble early.
When the new factory was established the
management discovered that, owing to war
conditions, it could not unload the old lease-
hold. Then soaring prices of materials and
higher wages—it had previously been n
sweated industry—began to obstruct the
smooth track the business had previously
travelled. The co. having showed a net loss
of about £l5OO for 1916, a change in manage-
ment was made. Reorganisation brought
about economies, and the factory output,
which had been slumping, was again in-
creased. Gross profits on manufacturing
were £19,975 for 1914, but had fallen to
£13,343 by 1917. Two years later they had
recovered to £17,499, and for the past 12
months increased to £23,488. The feature of
the table above is the large amount shown as
written off, representing loss on bottles and
general depreciation. Breakages and strayed
empties are a big item ; but during the past
two years this problem has been made easier
by demanding deposits on bottles from the
public. At June 30 the co. held £2763 of the
public’s money in a bottle-deposit reserve.
Here is a comparison of the balance-sheet
figures:—
1914. 1917. 1950.
Paid capital .. .. £41,111 £46,007 £46,007
Liabilities (inc. bottle
deposit reserve) .. 3,536 4,708 3,829
Freehold buildings . . 10,656 18,091 20,451
Plant, etc 11,888 10,226 8,755
Stocks 11,930 12,498 17,967
Book debts . . . . 2,781 1,367 902
Cash, etc 1,686 10 395
The co. had a troubled time during the three
years to 1917, but since then has picked up
well. Over the six years to the latest bal-
ance the book value of assets had grown
£9549 with the assistance of £3896 of new
capital and an addition of £293 of liabilities.
The management declares that the appreci-
ated value of its belongings has not affected
its balance-sheets : all stocks, etc., being in-
cluded at cost or under. Three years ago
goodwill stood in the books at £B9BB. but
after the latest appropriation of profits it
had been reduced to £6OOO.
* * * *
Goulburn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982. . .. £3,729
Dec., 1912.. £509 8 p.c. - £4OO £lO9 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 8 ~ „ 400 334 4,172
Dec., 1913... 754 8 ~ ~ 400 354 4,526
June, 1914.. 1139 8 „ 400 739 5,265
Dec., 1914.. 611 8 ~ ~ 400 211 5,476
June, 1915.. 627 8 „ „ 400 227 5,703
Dec., 1915.. 763 8 ~ ~ 400 363 6,066
June, 1916.. 551 8 „ ~ 400 151 6,217
Dec., 1916.. 1003 8 „ ~ 400 603 6,820
June, 1917.. 486 8 „ „ 400 86 6,906
Dec., 1917.. 582 8 „ „ 400 182 7,088
Written off renewals reserve, £125 6,963
June, 1918.. 402 8 p.c. = 400 2 6,965
Dec., 1918.. 429 8 ~ „ 400 29 6,994
June, 1919.. 488 8 „ ~ 400 88 7,082
Dec., 1919.. 629 8 „ ~ 400 229 7,311
June, 1920.. 401 8 ~ ~ 400 ( - 91 „
Written off plant renewals, £lO2 j
Both profits and reserves include additions
to a plant-renewal fund, and for the past
half-year £lO2, plus whatever was set aside
for renewals during the term, was written
off. So the latest profits may have been
somewhat better than the figures above indi-
cate. But the high cost of materials and
increased wages have made the business
much more difficult, while the competition of
a municipal electrical enterprise has also
dimmed prospects. Gross revenue for the
past half was £3875, compared with £3508
for the June half of 1915. Meantime exes,
have advanced from £2906 to £3474. Of the
latest balance-sheet reserves of £7610, £4290
represented the accumulations in the plant-
renewal account.. Assuming that the whole
of the amounts set aside in this fund during
the past five years will be required to pro-
vide for replacements, etc., then over that
period the co. has improved its position by
only a poor little £433 after paying regular
8 p.c. dividends. If plant, etc., have been


Dalgety 8 Company
-Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
i hef acific Cable Board
BEST _ ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
. CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
Amfricte to be posted from Canada.
week-end messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
(15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand..
Canada
4sd.
2/4
1/2
i 7d. (minimum
i H/8,20 words)
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United'Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be ohtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588
J. MILWABI). Ma naser in tb" Pacific,
. 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
„ J ince the intr oduction of electricity for H-htine
and power purposes, many homes in both thecity
owinn-^tr) 11 aVC * > 'iT den * e( * its numerous uses
the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
en i oy v> electrical . convenience, the G.E. Home Lis-ht
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
, IS compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
SvdnPv COl ' nC H Wentwo J? h Ave ™e Goulburrr Street,
Melbourne.—-Advt M Little oollins Stre <f,
Engineers and mechanics will find that with G.F.
Malleable Fittings they can do their fittings quicker!
saving time, labor and money. G.F. Malleable Fit-
tings, made from best British iron, are lighter and
superior to wrought fittings—have perfect threads
geometrically correct —true to sizes, which range from
£in. to oin. Over 6000 varieties. Sole Agents, Wm.
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth.— Advt r r
*** L °
T i{™ ER Wood _Stave Pipe.— Letter received ' from
£ a h} e ,°ape Municipality, Council Chambers Wvn-
chnns d of e< fi;n th A i SUSt ’ 1914 : “ The five miles 60
°,f. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by vou for the Wvnvard
Thev rW fl °v kS ’ • h -' lVe pro \ ed t 0 he very satisfactory
(S-d iUving good results. Yours faithfully.
,'r d ; } K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pine
Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Hoad, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Fat tones: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Foots-
ments.-ADVT 3 ' Contractors to all State Govern-
* * *
Griffith* H i aVe yOU an idea worth Patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt. 6
* * * #
Austhalun Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, funk s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Gtfice; tel Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Mart n
Place, Sydney ; City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
•^ x Z our concre t e with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi
mix Concrete Mixer. Sizes from 11 to 54 cubic
fn‘i )er Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds
Head Offlct a Sydney e -iDVT thUr Leplastrier & Co’
D. J McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) • M Ins
hn'l ,L i 0 M- n - ): o Civil and Hydraulic Engineer-
irriantinn S t urve >P\ Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised; railway work
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt. y ’
■ J- H ’. Palmer > P-H-, Pel. Chem. Soc., etc., *consult-
m 0 e n si ne er, valuing, organising, technical advice
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
p, :° ce f es > Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 PUt
Balances 63 ’ ?v£gh\ s SuP jjJ* eS ’ OertfingN
sb* if,tin?,?' «2» al ”ss
a*;,”*,sv-TowSS *£,*»
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.-AnvT.
CITROEN GEARS.
JJ’fh efficiency, noiseless running, great
i- e /! gth ; P pr mining-, milling-, machinery,
ships, electrical plants, machine tools, etc.
Get particulars. ’Phone, Central 4031.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Queen & Collins Streets, Melbourne.
oi YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER. Leather Belting;.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI (El SON LTD
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
——— j ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
INDUSTRIAL C
EJ
tm
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
HEAD
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
maintained in good order the co. was very
comfortable: at June' 30 it had £6190 of
liquid assets (£4700 in public securities and
cash) and owed only £527.
The Australasian Oil and Cake Mills,
Ltd.—Seven months ago H. J. Storey and
b. F. Fotheringham established a mill to
manufacture linseed-oil and by-products at
Kilkenny (S.A.), and on the strength of
‘ most successful” operations during that
short period they now ask a public co. to
provide cash for expansion. The Austral-
asian Oil and Cake xMills is to have a nomi-
nal capital of £150,000 in £1 shares, of
which 100,000 shares are to be issued, the
public being offered 76,000. The remaining
24,000, together with £3OOO of cash put up
by the public, are to go to vendors in pay-
ment for their assets, which include good-
will, business secrets, formulas and, ‘‘the
like.” The prospectus fails to reveal what
is the actual value of the assets to be handed
over, and also omits to mention what the
vendors are asking for the goodwill of their
seven-months infant. Nor is it clear what
special business secrets, formulas and the
like” they possess, except that one of the
old partners is credited with being the “ori-
ginator of a special trade process whereby
the oil is matured ready for sale within three
days, whereas under the old process the oil has
to stand for at least three months.” This pro-
cess, it is added, “is not known or used in
any other factory.” Whether it has been
proved a success in all circumstances during
the seven months of the old business is not
stated. Two linseed mills are proposed, one
each in Vic. and S. Aus., close to the sea-
board and railway, the old plant being turned
over to the manufacture of copra products,
bo, evidently, the business is to be scattered
in three directions. Possibly there are good
prospects for the linseed- and cocoanut-oil
manufacturing industry in the two States
mentioned, but the public, being invited to
finance the enterprise, is entitled to know
precisely what is being offered for its cash. The
co. s acting-secretary and its solicitor are
declared to each hold a copy of the young
firm’s balance-sheet; but the proper place to
display these figures is in the prospectus,
together with a certificate by whoever made
the valuations.
* * * #
The Bank of Adelaide, which lately opened
a branch in Melbourne, intends to push on
with the progressive policy.- Arthur Water-
house, chairman of directors, told a specially-
summoned meeting of shareholders that a
private Act is to be sought. The two cur-
rent lUs. calls will make the shares all fully
paid to £5, so no more is to be got in that
direction. Power is sought to double the
present capital of a millipn sterling as and
when required.
Though the market had lost some faith in
the wonders at Kedah (F.M.S.), until last
week Badak had survived the assaults made
upon it. Then a crushing cable from director
bcarborough declared that 80 bores along the
full length of the valley had proved duds;
further, that on the work done by borer
Boadle he considered the property “value-
less.” The market ivas skittled, and Badak
directors, in company ivith recently-appointed
general-manager Raleigh, discoverer Orton
and check-borer Wilson, retreated in con-
sternation to chairman Dr. Ffrost’s Bendigo
surgery to decide what was to be done with
the patient. To add to their dilemma,
Scarborough is the director who witnessed
Orton’s work on the first 100-acre patch, and
singe his second visit, until the arrival of
the unintelligible message which preceded
his knock-out cable, there had been no hint
that all was not well. After Orton and
Wilson had expressed their disbelief in the
conclusiveness of Isaac Boadle’s work for
Scarborough, the directors decided to sus-
pend operations and send Raleigh post-haste
to the claim. Wilson is to accompanv him
if his health permits. But if the Badak
Board and Raleigh are to settle all doubts,
one way or the other, they had better secure
a star like Bethune or Lewis to pronounce
the verdict. Or they might coax T. W.
Horton to make the trip. The point in
doubt all along has been whether those who
had tapped the property had had the neces-
sary Malayan experience. But the action
of the Badak directors is straightforward
and, so long as Raleigh is given the assist-
ance of a reputable borer .with knowledge of
local conditions, they are going the right
way to probe the mystery.
Looking back over events since Orton’s
early bores created a flutter, the obvious fact
is that never at any time has the work done
on Badak justified the market attentions
given it. Orton put down 20 bores, besides
15 scout bores; Wilson followed six months
ago with reports on six check bores. The
Bulletin at the time pointed out that the
high values disclosed bv T these bores could
not by any stretch of imagination be taken
as a guide to the value of the property, and
that market adventurers would do well to
recall what happened to the Trong only a
few years before. Close boring alone could
and can prove the value of Badak. Even
Boadle’s SO holes together with Orton’s and
Wilson’s do not constitute close boring. But
there is a suspicion that since Boadle is an
old hand on near-northern fields his opera-
tions are likely to prove a more reliable
guide.
* * * *
With White Hopes at about 11s. and
Celebrations at about 7s. Gd., the market is
uot allowing much for the intrinsic value
of those Hampton Plains shows. In the be-
ginning White Hope was said to have a sul-
phide lode of a proved length of over 800 ft.
on the surface. Its width was said to range
from 9ft. to 20ft., and its bedrock value for
the full distance over half an ounce. Three
shafts over 450 ft. furnished ore of a much
higher grade and the market soared to 89s.
Then someone declared that the snafts iiad
been sunk in ore much higher than the mine
average, and the market fell, at first steadily
then heavily. The co. is reputed to have
about 10s. per share cash in hand. Celebra-
tion shares were exchanged for 575. a
tew months ago. This co. must have at
least os. per share cash in hand, and if the
values down to 100 ft. placed upon the mine
by Hamilton and others at the time of flo-
tation are correct, there should be something
over is. Gd. per share in ore in sight. But
shareholders probably remember that not
only the gold in the till but also the gold
showing in the mine is often consumed in a
vain search for other payable bodies.
Mutooroo will be the first of the Hampton
1 lams cos. to have a bum crushing, jLfie
first 50 tons have been railed to Kalgoorlie
and 100 to 150 tons more are to follow at
once. A yield of 2oz. to 3oz. is expected, but
as the parcel will include the nagged ore com-
ing from small patches passed through in
sinking Jessop s sfiait and in the drive at
100 ft., the return must not be considered
an indication of the average value of Mutoo-
roo ore.
Gt. Boulder’s output for 1919 showed a
substantial falling oif. The annual produc-
the i 6 y® ar s t 0 1917 ranged from
t 0 / bO<J - 0W) - In 1918 it fell to
ti 1 8,500, and last year, with the gold pre-
mium, the total was only £309,000. The
year s total dividend consequently shrank to
Is. Gd. per share, compared with 2s. 3d. for
and os. annually for many years pre**
viously. The average grade of the ore
treated in 1919 was 13.9dwt. gold (fine)
per ton, which is under the estimated aver-
age value of ore reserves. New ore bodies
continue to come to light, reserves having
benefited last year to tile extent of 86,547
tons. But the new finds do not keep pace
with extraction, consequently the quantitv
in sight at Dec. 31 last was only 325,300
tons as compared with 345,700 tons a year
previously. Ore at present in reserve repre-
sents about three years’ supply for the mill
as at nresent operated.
* * * .
Some months ago, when much-improved
prices were offered for sandalwood, many
VV estralian prospecting battlers turned tbeir
attentions from chasing ’weights to sandal-
wood-getting. Soon a hard-up State Min-
istry decided to get an extra cut out of the
boom, and Mines Minister Scaddan, who also
controls forestry, increased royalties from
. • £1- per ton. On top of that a regular
tion was put into force limiting the size
ot the sticks cut. It is claimed that under
the new conditions only people with large
plants can operate profitably; and the dig-
gers are dropping out of their new-found
occupation.
* * * *
There is a spasm of oil prospecting in
Queensland at present, bores being put down
at Wolston (near Brisbane) and at Mar-
burg, while the Government is still endeavor-
ing to get on with the Roma bore. Licenses
for oil prospecting have also been taken up
at Noosa, on the coast, about 30 miles north
of Brisbane. The Wolston bore is appa-
rently being put down to test the divining-rod
theory, for Dept, of Agriculture surveyor
Ai thur Morry’s rod wobbled for oil in the
locality, and on the strength of that a few
people with faith are backing him and pre-
senting him with 5000 £1 paids in their co.
in!? i a b ® re * s already down between
400 and 500 ft. Both bores are in gently-folded
strata, rich in carbonaceous bands, so the
sites cannot be considered unfavorable. But
the countiy that undoubtedly needs testing
at a depth is the western plain between
Longreach, Roma and Charleville. Petro-
q/uvi kave been found between
3000 and 5000 feet deep in the Warbreccan
Bimmerah No. 2, Springleigh and Ruthven
artesian bores, and the gas at 2700 ft. at
Roma has been definitely proved to be petro-
leum gas and not coal-seam gas. The geolo-
gists know there is oil there, but whether in
payable quantities is a matter to be investi-
gated.
Wonbah, the best molybdenite pipe in the
Commonwealth, is at present lying idle. The
co. was proceeding to liquidation for pur-
poses of reconstruction when an injunction
order restrained the directors from eoin«-
ahead. But evidently the drop in the Queens*
land quotations to £260 for 90 p.c. concen-
trates is responsible for the closing down
pending reconstruction. The mine is situ-
ated near Mt. Perry, Central Queensland,
and is equipped with a tine little treatment
plant. , Last year it was the Common-
wealth s premier producer, with about •*0
tons of 90 p.c. concentrates, and supplied
approximately half the output of Queens-
iand. It is a white quartz pipe in granite,
which for size and regularity must be unique
in Australian occurrences. Near the sur-
face its diameter was 40ft. and at the 100 ft.
level it was 60ft. through. The pipe is
rich, and the metal is more regularly dis-
tnbuted than in most pipes. It was dis-
covered some years before the war by the
veteran prospector of Mt. Perry, Jack Lane,
who nowadays is opening up a huge quartz
blow which shows molybdic oxide near the
surface.
When Glenbar was floated about three
jeais ago to take over Mt. Melanie, near
-Liaio, on the Queensland North Coast line
the promoters didn’t make a Hallelujah
Chorus of the prospectus, but merely repro-
uuoecl the Government geologists’ reports in
their entirety. Those reports declared that
prospects depended on “economic handling
and treatment of what is really a fine body
of stone, ’ though low grade. Glenbar was
a proposition, declared chief-geologist Dun-
stan, which, though offering rich patches,
was going to yield ’weights, not ounces. So
tne co. s job was to get busy on development
and ascertain what tonnages were available
before thinking of a battery. The extent
of the development work done during the
past two years or more is not clear from
the directors report for the six months to
June 30. But a battery is going up, and
tne mine-manager, who does not mention
tonnages except the 200 tons already
broken—or approximate values, talks loosely
of battery feed “for 12 or 18 months.” Mean-
time some shareholders have tired, and for-
feited shares and arrears of calls now
occupy a place in the balance-sheet. The
F°: 1S JSLIQO.OOO shares of 35., paid capital
being £isoB, £4500 representing fully-paids
t* l ® float . and £3058 subscribed by the
j contnbs., who have thus far been
asked to put up 2s. A £4OO Government
vote has also gone into the mine. Since on
June 30 the co. had only £.134 of cash, and
owed £92, shareholders will have to dip
deeper before the battery speaks.
* * * *
Tin mining in the Ewan district (N.Q.)
continues to boom. In consequence of fur-
ther supposedly rich finds several option syn-
dicates have been formed. The old Brilliant
Extended Co. of Charters Towers has pur-
chased the Salmon lease, over which it held
an option, and a trial crushing from this
show is awaiting treatment. One great draw-
back to this field is shortage of battery power.
Normanby field, in the Proserpine
(.iN.Q.) district, is showing further signs of
a revival. Interest at present centres in the
Billy Hughes mine, and a syndicate of
1 rosperine men has been formed to work
tins show. Six new shafts have been put
down on the field and all, so ‘it is claimed, are
showing gold A crushing from a depth of
ooft. in tile Billy Hughes went 2oz. The
sidy eiDment ** aS §ranted the syndicate a sub-
Another co. is out to give the old Oriental
mine near Wandiligong (Vic.), a go. When
*2 A - VVallace’s possession it gave
40,0000 z. from 110,000 tons; this was from
a run of stone 1300 ft. long at the surface
Most mining men expect that a shoot which
m long at the surface will persist in depth •
H U oht th nt S qnSt Oriental shoot persisted all
ii»ht, at 300 ft. the gold contents dropped
from a 3oz. average to as few dwts. So the
BH^n-V- 9 * th £ pack tm 1887 > when the
Blight Distuct Prospecting Co. set out to
drive a tunnel on calls some 4000 ft. into
,Fountain s P«r to cut the reef at 1200 fr
* i at 3757 ft. was a foot vein and a
Unoi og +f tS rep ? rt that the Oriental lode had
i! 1 ' OWn l - m . to °hscurity by heavy fault-
ing. Some driving was done, but cash w a «
not plentiful, and the old mine went to sleep
a J^i n <iF rOCtoV { w . bo revived the Rose, Thistle
and Shamrock in the same district, is the
new man to endeavor to find the reef.
i‘hTftln W .° rld ’ S , pro . d^ tion of tin for 1913 was
as unde/-— S < - pi ‘ odu ®ed and smelted
Produced. Smelted.
British Empire .. .. h°k
Holland .. .. .'I lli ”.3
China-Siam .. .. f e ;| 74
®° llv l a 21.3 16
America .. .. A 4
Others .. .. ;; 17 t 2.4
The British smelting capacity is 88,300 tons
per annum, or 30,000 tons greater than S
smeltor' U -‘ S ” With its 18,000? ton
smeltei capacity, is making a big bid to
secure full supplies from Bolivia, in cdmpe-
tion with the German smelters of 16,000 tons
SKua * he BrMsh Empire
* Jf.
Cooper and Nephews, the English *sheeD-
dip people who obtained a six months’ option
o'er the Ottery arsenic and tin mineral'
Emmaville (N.S.W.), are making a deter-
mmed eitort to prove the size and quality of
the lodes there. A gasoline engine to drive
rock drills has been installed, and men
brought from Cobar to work the plant. Two
shafts are being sunk, one at either end of
, e tunnel, for air purposes and to prove the
length of the lode, and a winze is also being
depth m 116 tUnnel to prod the deposits at
* * #
The mostly-Launceston owned Arba is
fast approaching exhaustion. Manager Mit-
chell estimated in June that four months’
regular sluicing work would clean up the
payable tin drifts in sight. Operations will
then cease uniess it is decided to give the
high-level drifts lying between the Nos 2
haulages a go. Only two months’
WaS done dunng the last half-year
Ofiopf. u watei ; shortage. The co. treated
2b,026 yds. wash for over 16| tons tin oxide
or an average of 1.451 b. per yd. The search
fZ H neW , propert ,y has be en unsuccessful so
tai, though several areas have been examined.
£3895 d aSSets at the balance amounted to
’* * * *
New liuby Flat, Bradshaw’s Creek (Tas )
made a profit of £967 for the half-year ending
'hmnrfri 1 \ slxpen ?l was distributed on its
40,00° £1 shares. Water shortage interfered
with sluicing operations during the term but
manager Holmes anticipated a good run’dur-
ing the wet winter months.
£2O 000 C ,°n s olklated • <?«*.) bas got in
£20,000 of fresh capital to systematically
prospect the Lisle goldfield, and rologist
Lundy has been engaged to make a survey
held over 100 ° acres arJ


A MAINTENANCE CASE.
"Austin Chapman, is demanding the removal of Parliament from Melbourne to Canberra, and wants the Government to start erecting the necessary buildings to the tune of £300,000 a year."
LAWYER CHAPMAN: “Intasking that the defendant be compelled to support my unfortunate client, y’r ’Onor, I submit that his offence has been aggravated by his long attachment for the shameless hussy that, now stands beside him.”


•J > f
~?ar £peiy Occasion,
ABBOTS LAGER
c 7Ap c 73i?er Mit/iout a VtiVa/
BREWED moil PURE ONiy
gsd
fv
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage ?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 vears of dailv use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading' Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARGING ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEJ3SEMAN.
PERSONAL
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Whatever spooks Australia possesses will
be taken out and paraded when Conan Doyle
arrives. The father of Sherlock Holmes
(who comes this way to lecture) was given
a luncheon by the English spiritualists a
fortnight ago, be-
fore setting out for
Australia and
lUaoriland. When
he asked all who
communicated with
the dead to stand,
90 per cent, of
those present rose
like mourners.
Doyle has helped
to make ghost-hunt-
ing quite a popular
sport in England.
H. Y. BRAD DON,
M.L.C., first
Commonwealth
Commissioner to
the U.-S.A.
The panegyrics on Samuel Griffith were
spoken a few months £go when, his life-work
clone, he stepped down from the High Court
bench which he had so richly adorned. In
the local politics of Queensland, in which
he was the most commanding figure for
nearly 20 years, his course and Th«e Bul-
letin’s did not run together; but his tre-
mendous capacity was never in question.
For politics, however, he had little affec-
tion ; and he hardly troubled to disguise his
feelings. His great and very special intel-
lectual gifts found much more congenial
employment first as Chief Justice of Queens-
land (1893) and then as Chief Justice of
the High Court of Australia (1903). Here,
as all his life, he depended upon his men-
tality for his success. He did not spare
himself in arriving at a conclusion (he fre-
quently worked at a ease or an aspect of
a case until 2 or 3 o’clock in the morning),
and having formed an opinion he had full
confidence in it —-accompanied often by im-
patience for obviously less well-considered
opinions that ran counter to his own. From
first to last on the bench he was a Judge.
Ao man coming up from politics to the bench
has more thoroughly dissevered himself from
the old life. He had no very high regard
for popular opinion; but he recognised that
in this democracy it is the people’s part to
make the laws and tlie Judge's to interpret
them. From this followed what perhaps
even the present High Court regards as a
narrow and illiberal interpretation of the
Constitution. But Griffith as • a Judge
refused to recognise such terms as liberal
and conservative: to him the only question
was that of finding what certain words meant
and declaring their meaning to be the law.
“Bill” Hamilton, the recently-deceased
President of Queensland’s Leg. Council, re-
tained to the end a remarkable fluency in
slanguage. As
President it was his
duty to read'
prayers a t the
opening of each
day’s proceedings.
Two forms are
used, a' brief one
for everyday and a
longer one for spe-
cial occasions. One
day on entering—a
line, handso m e
figure in his presi-
dential robe^ —Bill
picked up the card
containing the
longer supplica-
tion. He read from
it for a line or two ;
then, with the ex-
clamation ; —!
It’s the wrong
prayer!” put it
down and proceeded
to recite the shorter
one.
FOWLER , the
Westralian
M.H.R., who
owns one of the
shrewdest tongues
in the House,
and has a habit
of making
Hughes uncom-
fortable with it.
Coneybeer, still Speaker of South Aus.
Assembly, lias sat in the chair sinee 1915.
Before that he was Minister of Education
under Price and Verran in turn. He was
first heard of in 1888 as president of S.A.
Trades and Labor Council, helped to found
the local Parliamentary Labor Party, was
its first member to get in (1893), and has
sat for East Torrens ever since—-which must
be somewhere near an Australian record.
The Prince chummed up almost instain
taneously with acting-Premier Jack Fihelly
of Queensland; even the latter’s rotten tips
for the races didn’t ruin their friendship.
At the people’s reception in Brisbane H.R.H.
invited his new pal up on the platform.
“You’re. not frightened, surely,” said Fihelly.
l am, ’ replied Edward. “You’ve never
been through this stunt or you’d know wnat
it was.” So Jack went up and acknowledged
the smirks and smiles that the other happened
to miss.
A big job for General Monash has been
found at last. He is to be manager of the
vi£. Government’s electricity-generation
scheme from Oct. 1 at £3OOO a year. This
is a preliminary to making him chairman
(at the same screw) of a Trudt to replace
the present Commission. Swinburne, whose
health is none too good, may stand down as
a commissioner, but Lyle and Gibson may
continue as consultants at a fee of £5OO or
so a year each. The scheme, which is based
on the utilisation of the Morwell brown
coal-deposits, is to run into three millions.
George S. Beeb.v, the new N, S. Wales
Industrial Court Judge, is the right man
for the job. He is a sound lawyer, and a
specialist in industrial matters. But above
all he has a judicial mind. It is so judicial
that it was his. ruin as a politician. He
could see both sides of every issue, and also
all around it; and he was, further, handi-
capped by a rigid honesty of character. The
8. M. Herald, in announcing his appoint-
ment, remarked that “he first entered Parlia-
ment for Blayney after the death of the late
TV. P. Crick in 1907.” Crick was only dead
in the political sense when Beeby won his
old seat. At the first attempt Crick opposed
Beeby’s candidature. Crick didn’t stand him-
self—just asked his old supporters not to vote
at all as a protest against Beeby butting in
and Splitting the Blayney Labor vote.
Thousands disfranchised themselves, and the
Liberal candidate won. At the next attempt,
with Crick silent, Beeby got a big majority.
Labor will have a V.C. on its side at the
next W.A. election, Lieutenant Larry
McCarthy, whom London Weekly De-
spatch dubbed “the super-V.C.” (he
accounted for nearly a whole German pla-
-toon single-handed), having weighed in with
a nomination for Swan. McCarthy is West-
ralian-born and was an orphanage boy for
years. He is now a big, burly, laughing
Digger, who can make an effective, though
rough-hewn, speech. But he will find Swan
a hard seat to win (although a Labor man
held it from 1911 to 1914), for Bill Nairn,
the present incumbent, is capable and popu-
lar. .
Arthur Blackburn, the quiet young lawyer
of Adelaide who won a V.C., and on his re-
turn took a Sbat in S'. A. Assembly as a Nat-
ionalist, is resigning it, having too much to
in his 131'ofession and as local president of
the Returned Soldiers’ Association. He re-
commends the electors of Sturt to put in his
place Jim Vaughan, who before enlisting was
a youthful, Attorney-General in the Labor
Ministry of his brother Crawford.
Hie death of T. M. Slattery recalls the
happy-go-lucky methods adopted in the good
rn it S yS t 0 solve the une niployment problem
,(vi ' i g 0 (: , tlle Min es portfolio in October.
d l, when jobs were scarce. On the morning
he took over control six callers were wait-
ing on the mat, and all proclaimed that they
had worked their boots off to secure the Min-
ister s return. There was no Public Service
Board to worry about, and six extra mes-
sengers began “work” that day.
George Taylor' and the late Bill HamiJ-
ton were mates in Queensland when
the A.tY.U. was young, and were gaoled in
the early nineties for participation in the
shearers strike. Afterwards their tracks
diverged widely, but both made good in poli-
tics: Bill became President of the Queensland
Council and George Speaker of the Westra-
lian Assembly. Taylor was born in Wol-
longong (N.S.W.), near the house in which
Justice Ewing spent his boyhood, and at 12
he was earning his living as a carter. He
was one of the original bunch of Labbr mem-
bers in the W.A. Parliament, and has repre-
sented Mt. Margaret since 1901. although he
has had to fight hard for it every time.
F. T. Derham, managing director of Swal-
low and Ariell, who has just beaten pneumonia
after a terrible tussle, is a link with Vic-
toria’s political past. From February. 1886,
till August, 1890, he was P.M.G. ‘in the
Gillies-Deakin Coalition. Port Melbourne,
which he had represented as a Conservative-
Liberal for about nine years, became Radi-
cal, and he went out of politics 28 years
ago. It looks as if Derham and J. L. Dow
are the.only survivors of the numerous mem-
bers of that much-shuffled Coalition. As
President of the Chamber of Manufactures
Derham shrieked hard against factory legis-
lation —so hard that Peacock, the author of
the wages-board system, at last made the
comment: “Mary Jane surely reached her
- top note last night.” After that Derham
slackened off a bit. Yet, Tory and all. he
has throughout been a courteous, fair
employer.
Joseph Hughes, Brisbane’s “roseate Hues
of early dawn,” died in the cit v he knew best
during Prince week. He was for many years
the G.O.M, of the Queensland Taxation De-
partment, and" because of his exceptional
ability and knowledge was retained as chief
for years after he had passed the age limit.
Death has robbed South Aus. of a brilliant
young man in Ivan Edwin Ashby, M.D.,
B.Sc. He was born at North Adelaide, and,
in sp.te of ill-health, found time to do valu-
able research work in diabetes and children’s
diseases. He was medical officer at Adelaide
Children’s Hospital for three years. And he
was only 27.
Michael Callanan, who crossed into
Shadowland last week, aged 90. was one of
the finest types the Vic. State Service ever
had on its pay-roll, and he deserved the pen-
sion he drew for 20 years. Before he
retired he was Surveyor-General. As a
senior officer he was constantly slashing at
the red tape that retarded settlement on
Crown land, and he succeeded in cutting
away yards of it Sturdy, capable and good-
natured, Callanan left pleasant memories
and good methods behind him.
An obituary notice brings it to light that
Sydney s old friend. Single-taxer Huie. is
descended from Judge Gascoigne, who sent
Henry V. (as he afterwards became) to
gaol.
After 60 years of journalism Richard
Tinniswood Easterby has laid down his pen
and departed for the shades. For 40 years
he was editor of the Gippsland Mercury ;
but before that he moved uneasily among
Beechworth, Echuca, Kyneton, Bendigo and
Horsham, and even had a brief spell on the
melancholy Melbourne Telegraph.
While Vic. Treasurer McPherson was ex-
plaining the miscalled Charities Bill in the
Vic. Assembly the electric light failed.
Fellow-worker Hutchinson thereupon ex-
claimed. “You’re the first Minister to cause
an eclipse in this
Hous e.” “But,”
commented
McPherson, “I’m
not the first to suf-
fer one” —a com-
ment that was pos-
sibly crueller than
he intended, as col-
league Hutchinson
will have all the
guns of the
Farmers' Union
trained on him at
Boning in a few
weeks.
MALCOLM
KENNEDY ,
President of the
Tasmanian
Chamber of
Commerce.
“Rloggs”: Donald Grant, one of the re-
leased I.W.W. men, paid a ruinous tribute
last week to Spiers Kirkland, the Sydney
throat specialist. “They took me to Dr.
Kirkland,” he told the Sun. “I might have
been his brother or patient with a fat purse
and big fees; his manner with me could not
have been kinder. For a time I forgot I
was 041.” As Grant has done the damage
it won’t hurt if I give the medico away
further. Some of us took to him a jour-
nalistic friend who was hard up at the time
and apparently in danger of dying, and we
undertook to pay all exes. Kirkland cured
him and then declined to take any fee what-
ever. But many of the doctors are like
that. One intolerant Tory of my acquaint-
ance looked after the family of the lady who
washes for us throughout their influenza
troubles, asked for no fees and ended by
lending the husband a tenner. She told me
about it with pride on the day the debt was
repaid, together with her husband’s com-
ment that these are the sort of men who
ruin the Bolshevik movement.
A benefactor who did not advertise was
A. J, Shirley, who heard the clear call a
week ago. He it was who organised the
Association for the Advancement of the Blind
ih Sydney, and was its honorary secretary
until ill-health forced him to retire. For 2b
years he battled for the sightless of his State,
and his personal initiative was mainly re-
sponsible for a lot of their present comforts
and recreations.
“E. Gippy” : Re “Margaret L.’s” denial (B.
29/7/20) that “Mint Sauce” Jones was the
author of the now historic term “Bungaree
savage.” My dad, who was secretary for
Jones at the elections in those days, said
the phrase was coined at a meeting in Bal-
larat at which a number of noisy Bun-
gareeans were present. Jones was 'advised
t £>ungarc6 was a section of the electorate
to be thereafter avoided. Instead, the battler
went to have it out in the enemy’s strong-
hold. He was met with yells peculiar to
that district, but told the vellers they were
on!y wasting their energy, as he had come
to address them and was going to do it.
Une of the audience shouted: “You called
us savages, Jones—a name that will stick
to .,V S o ?, g 5 s we live.” Jones came back
with: Well, Im going to stick to you, too
as long as you live!”
THE SEEDMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before the east is wide awake, along the harrowed
hill
He drives afield his toiling team that moves the
feeding drill.
Beneath his feet the silver discs cut forward through
the loam
Beyond the hill and out of sight, a thousand yards
from home.
He pauses where the furrows end against the wooded
' lane,,
And slowly through the morning mist he turns 5 ' for
home again.
When he has topped the nearer slope, along the
broken track
That crumbles underneath his drill while he is
making back,
Above the chocolate furrows, by the autumn breezes
blown,
Rolls the chorus of the magpies from the paddocks
newly sown.
The sun is out, the sullen clouds have wept and
passed away,
And now the drill is cutting home across the heavy
clay.
Beneath the seedman’s patient team the clodded
headlands break,
And searching plover settle on the seed-rows in his
wake.
While sunlight warms the steady hands that hold
the swinging reins,
A voice makes pleasing harmony with clinking
harness chains.
He halts to turn afield again, the track is straight ■
and clean
Where he has shed the golden grain to plant the
paddocks green.
On cloudy autumn afternoons, and when the wind is
bleak,
The seedman gropes along a fence, and turns beside
a creek.
Against the seed and “super” box he firmly locks
his knees
To jolt across the broken ground and sow among
the trees. =
Each day his team plods back and forth, with ever
less to do,
And where the rain has bathed the earth the grass
is showing through.
The changeless task is light for him whose supple
limbs are strong,
The wild birds in the timber share his every stave
of song.
He sees the pale stars fade at dawn and kindle in
the dusk,
And speeds a harvest bountiful; fat grain and
swollen husk.
Day after day he races time both up and down the
field,
And drills his labor in the earth and leaves the soil
to yield.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.
THE PARTYLESS LEADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Senator Gardiner’s salary is £l2OO a year, £2OO
\ w A dra ?: s as . leacJ er of the Opposition in
AS . only one Oppositionist in
the Senate, he gets £2OO a year for leading himself.”
I’ve never wanted to be a Hughes,
The thing is out of my line;
But if I could step into Gardiner’s shoes
I d answer “These are mine.’’
His job would suit me down to the ground:
No one to heckle a man, or hound,
Little to do but look profound
And sign receipts as the months go round—
A hundred a month gets he.
Between the twa in, if I could choose,
The Premier’s post I should refuse—’
The Senator’s lot for me!
Six months the Senators shape the laws,
And oft they are idle then,
But, work or play, Jupp Gardiner draws
His daily three pound ten.
No need has he to fear intrigue
By envious Rump or Labor League,
His life is free from brain-fatigue.
It ripples along like a suite of Grieg,
Assured of place and pelf.
He’s safe till nineteen 'twenty-three
And two hundred a year is a handsome fee
, For captaining yourself.
N.S.W.
D. E.


o
m
fjWfi
l
m
m
KV
m
Wm
m
\^=3:
\^r.r
ss
ESS
1
mm
Is
■
s
m
M m
mm
m
m.
m
I
■
m
r
gas
#(
I
PPaRD
=CI
m
Women Know that
the visible quality of “Austral” Sac Suits, to measure, is well
supported by the excellence of the workmanship and finish.
Their quick, unerring judgment detects the more or less hidden
merits of these garments.
When your womankind examine your “Austral” Sac Suit, to
measure, and approve, be confident that it is right in design and
in execution.
“Austral” Sac Suits
To Measure
105/-, 115/-, £6/6/-, £6/15/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/- to £ll/11/-
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns with
tape-measure and forms for self-measurement free on request.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY, SUBURBS AND COUNTRY.
486-490
GEORGE STREET,
COWING BR° 5 I™
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
3 to 17
ROYAL ARCADE,


A boot built for the rough places
—outdoors!
For '.vet, boggy ground—for hard, stony ridges—for any-
where and everywhere that thick soles and light, strong
uppers are necessary this Peapes Station Boot is the boot
you need.
It is cut in the military style without toeeap, and has
light leather lining throughout. A most comfortable boot,
specially designed and constructed to give long service
. under the hardest conditions of outdoor wear on farm or
station.
Stout flexible Tan Chrome Calf . . 507-
Black 45/-
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state size and width of fitting.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
w
>3
*****
P/IRIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you.
FOR WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indent*- and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
%
1/
When You’re “OFF COLOR”
A common condition which Sal Hepatica soon
dispels. It rids the blood of impurities, tones
up the liver and gives you the vim of good
health.
Doctors recommend Sal Hepatica because' of
its purity and effectiveness.
Price 2/- and 4/- at your chemist,
or post free from
BRISTOL-MYERS CO.,
49 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
I i
MEFOTCA
< J~iC&<ZSGCZvf do
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Prickly Pear”: In Queensland there has
been some sniffing because of the preference
shown by the Prince for the Coochin Bells,
who were his hosts during a week-end.
Though substantial estate owners these
Bells are not of the big squatting fraternity,
and only of late years have they had social
prominence. Now that they have “arrived”
they are often confused with the Jimbour
Bells, with whom they have no kinship. The
Jimbour Bells have had two generations of
UNDOUBTEDLY.
“Will you live with his patients after you
marry?”
"I can’t see how we can possibly live with-
out them.”
Parliamentary representatives, but the
Coochin Bells were not known in politics till
a few years back. Nevertheless the Coochins
belong to one of the oldest Australian
families. Their ancestor in this continent
was Ensign Bell, who came to Australia in
or about 1805 with £5OO. a wife and family
and a letter of recommendation from the
Secretary of State, who requested that he
should be supplied with a grant of land.
The request was honored, and incidentally
Bell was made a magistrate. Later he was
in the conspiracy to unhorse Bligh, and was
sent to England. When he returned he
found that he had been dispossessed of his
land grants, one of which, on the Hawkes-
bury River, he had greatly improved. He
stated his ease in strong correspondence
addressed to the British authorities, and
eventually his land was restored to lnm.
There were pastoralist Bells, his descend-
ants, in N. S. Wales for several generations,
most of them genial hosts and hostesses.
The husband of the present widowed lady of
Coocliin brought her to Camboon station, in
the Dawson Valley, when there was no other
white woman in the district. Later he and
a partner acquired Coochin also, and in
time it became the sole property of the Bell
family. Much of it has been sold in
agricultural blocks and is now under culti-
vation.
t * * * *
A railway smash at Hurstviile, outside
Sydney, brought to light a youngster who
ought to make a model husband when he
marries. Although pinned under some wreck-
age, he was not badly hurt, and when the
rescuers came along he suggested that they
had better look for worse cases before they
troubled to release him. While waiting he
saw in the crowd a youngster he knew. “Hey,
Billy!” he said. “Nick home and tell mother
I m all right, but I’ll be late for tea.”
* * * *
“Don Three”: From 1916 onwards light
jobs in the British Army Service Corps
were undertaken by women, who wore a
natty uniform with “Army Service Corps”
in big white letters on an arm-patch. A
mate of mine who had relations' in England
was chatting one night in the estaminet,
and happened to ask a Tommy what unit
he belonged to. “The Army Service Corps,”
replied the Woodbine. My mate cannot
understand to this day why the Englishman
was annoyed when he replied cordially,
Glad to meet you, cobber. I’ve got an
auntie in that!”
“Ex Dig.”: A Sydney man’s war experi-
ences were streaked with romance. In
191 1 he married an Englishwoman who
thought herself a widow, her Tommy soldier
having been reported dead. But after the Dig-
ger left for France the husband turned up.
and when a child came along it was regis-
tered as his. Then things happened in a
heap. The husband died, and the lady,
realising that now she really was a widow,
married someone else. Then she died, and
the Digger claimed the child. But the latest
husband refused to give it up. He was still
refusing when the Digger’s transport pulled
out for Australia, and the argument is being
continued by letter at a distance of 12,000
miles.
“Sixenate”: The remark (B. 5/8/’2O)
that some women can get on amiably with
anyone but their husbands reminds me of
the case of Jinks. Mrs. Jinks got a decree
nisi five years ago, after a matrimonial exist-
ence which was a scandal to all their friends
Naturally Jinks was blamed; but it was
Mrs. Jinks’s temper that started the trouble.
When Jinks strayed she sued for a divorce,
actuated by the motive which the Divorce
Judge in a recent case “found it difficult
to hmieve”: she “wanted to vindicate her-
self, and she did .the vindicating at
Jinks s expense. But before the decree
was made absolute she had made many
attempts to induce Jinks to rejoin her
He resolutely waited three months, and then
went back. The general impression is that
they are remarried, but they are not; and
their domestic harmony is undisturbed by
the broils that used to exhilarate the neigh-
bors. Possibly Jinks may not arrive home
at d a.m. quite'so constantly; but that mav
be because Mrs Jinks is not waiting at 8
mm. to rattle the matrimonial chains at him.
There are no matrimonial chains to rattle.
* * * *
“H.S.”: We have just lost the chance of
leasing a flat. It was a splendid flat —large
rooms, easterly aspect, harbor views, electric
light fore and aft, close to the city and
within hail of some good shops and a picture-
show. in brief, just the sort of place to
which one might fairly expect to allure a
‘ help.” The proprietress, who lived in the
building, approved of us. It remained only
to sign the lease. The first item was the
usual condition barring children of all ages,
shapes and sizes. With a relief that almost
amounted to pride we pleaded not guilty to
owning any. But to be on the safe ‘side
the admission was made that there was a
nephew. An inoffensive and tractable child
of six. Would he be allowed to stay occa-
sionally? Under no circumstances! Not a
week-end now and then? Quite impossible!
Out of the question! Couldn't hear of it!
The existence of a pet dog was mentioned,
the comment on which was that if the speaker
had to choose between a dog and a child
she would almost as soon have the child. In
any event she would not hear of being associ-
ated with either. Nor would she allow dogs
or children to kennel outside and visit the
flats by day. She. also barred cats and
pal lots. Her suspicions being now thor-
oughlj aioused she inquired if we had a
gramophone. The answer was in the nega-
tive. Still probing, she wanted to know if
we played the piano, kept late hours, or
entertained after the theatre. It seemed
no use waiting till she asked if either of us
drank, so we left, saying that we would try
somewhere else. As a matter of fact, we
ruined our prospects, and surrounded our-
MOTHER-IN-LAWS OPINION.
STRANGE LADY: “ And where is your father, my dear?”
BRIGHT CHILD: Mother thinks 'he is in Heaven,' but grandmamma knows different.”
selves with an atmosphere of disrespectability
the moment we mentioned the nephew.
What I would like to do to one of these
allies of the late Malthus is to take a flat
or house on a five years’ lease or longer,
agreeing to all conditions as regards the dis-
qualification of children, and immediately
stock it with not less than three healthy,
riotous infants of between four and eight
years of age, with all their animal pets and
toys complete. The Law (which apparently
sits coldly above and aloof from the best
interests of the nation) would no doubt
deport them in time, but the legal costs and
the expenses of the move would be well
Worth it.
* * * *
From a man who is tied in a knot:—
The last phase of this I.W.W. business has got me
puzzled. Justice Ewing says he can’t understand
the mental attitude of a person who refuses to admit
that there was a conspiracy to burn. 11. E. Boote
lauds Ewing to the skies, but insists there was no
conspiracy to burn. John Storey declares that “the
law has been vindicated, the lesson has been learnt,
and the futility of crime to upset the established order
of things has been demonstrated. That is why no
further acts of arson have been committed.” In
short, there was a conspiracy to burn. Again, Jus-
tice Ewing states that one of the 12 prisoners
(Reeve) was in the arson business, John Storey im-
plies that others were in it, and H. E. Boote affirms
that nobody was in it, the thing being “a con-
spiracy hatcheu in the brains of politicians more
vile than any convict in the cells.” Ewing charac-
terises Reeve as a dangerous criminal, Storey inti-
mates that Reeve is “remaining in gaol for the
full term of his sentence” ( i.e lo years), and “if
I had my way”—Boote butts in here—“they would
be all out,” Reeve and King along with the others.
Incidentally, Reeve the arsonist and King the bank-
note crook are regarded as “working-class martyrs,”
and at least one of the other “victims” has publicly
announced that the I.W.W. (now an illegal associa-
tion) intends continuing where it left off. Which
is uncommonly contemptuous of John Storey's assur-
ance that “the law has been vindicated, the lesson
has been learnt.” Back Igo to Mr. Boote, and dis-
cover that Justice Ewing has been monstrously
unjust to Reeve, having allowed his leg to be pulled
by nefarious politicians and police; I read further
and am informed that the gullible gent, from
Tasmania “probed the case for the Crown with a
piercing logic,” that “under his relentless scruc.nv
the fabric of lies fell to pieces,” and that “a
keener instinct for justice never Existed in eonjune-
tion with a horsehair wig.” It is all verv perplexing
and hard to fit in, but I am tipping that when the
next Labor Government has a vacanev to fill on the
High Court Bench.it will communicate with ’Chart.
“H.M.” : Coochin estate, in the Fassifern
district of Queensland, where the Prince
learned (more or less) to crack a stock-
whip and became the proud possessor of one,
was so named because its lagoons were fre-
quented by “coochin,” which is Binghi for
black swan. One of the most picturesque
waterholes lies beside Minto Craig, a castle-
shaped rock, which Nature has supplied with
minarets and towers. Minto Craig is beauti-
fully reflected in the waters of the lagoon,'
which is sometimes edged with pink lilies.
The crag, with its companion pool, re-
ceived favorable mention in Cunningham’s
journal, that charmingly-written record of
the writer’s discovery of the mountain pass
which bears his name, and by way of which
travellers first passed from the coast-lands of
Moreton Bay to the early squatters’ paradise,
the Darling Downs.
* * * *
“Half-pay Pirate” : The scoff of one pos-
sible Australian Navy recruit who refuses to
be “dressed like a kid” indicates that the
vital sea-service may be starving to death
on account of its absurd clothes. Tradition
is a strong plant in England, where the
strange costume originated; but Australia
never knew the frivolous King Charles whose
mistress’s taste in riding costumes the Royal
Navy perpetuates. The simple, rum-guzzling
mariners of an earlier day meekly accepted
the braided collar and the divided skirts; but
the modern sailor, who is always an expert
in some direction, and sometimes a scientist,
has no fancy for rolling round in archaic
fancy-dress which has been burlesqued by
several generations of small boys and the
low comedian of melodrama. He would just
as soon shuffle ashore garbed as Little Lord
Fauntleroy. Which makes it necessary that
the naval-fashion designer should get to work
and invent a sane uniform for this wing of
the public service—assuming that a uniform
is necessary for this wing any more than for
the Roads and Bridges Department.
(Continued on page 18.)
AUGUST SHOWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rain it raineth every day, .
And all the night as well;
Since last the good sun passed away
A hundred inches fell.
A hundred inches, more or less,
Have run to heedless waste.
And still the large drops fall to bless
The world in eager haste.
O water gods and spirits high,
Leave off, dry up and stop.
It does not need the whole black sky
To grow one turnip crop.
The wattle is a yellow sponge,
The read is high in flood,
The cows along the hilltops plunge
Tail-deep in seething mud.
When droughts were on the stricken land
We asked for pleasant rain.
Shall ever dust by breezes fanned
Blow down the tracks again?
O crystal drops forbear, forbear,
Reserve your summer stock!
The world is wet by now, we swear,
Right to its central, rock.
Whoof! Hear the merry wavelets break
High up within the tree!
The August air is one deep lake
That ripples over me.
It falls, a loud, tremendous heap
On hat and coat and plain,
A wetness fifty fathoms steep—
One slab of solid rain!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOsES.


• ••
AS
SA
I
AA:
X
A'X*!
SA
1
V.W
**
m
yfl
fi®
;Xv
i
Ax
M
m
AS
Hi
PWR'
m
A: :
If
ivXv
Hi
>'.y
•a*
SA
iii
:A
M
WAS:
A
ii
o>
Xv!*
M
AS:
Si
ASS
:AA
Hi
*
Si;S
:• S
Hi
AS?
gigi
ii
SA
••
A
*
4
m
a
BEFORE the GRADUOLA, the in-
genious patented tone controlling de-
vice in the AEOLIAN VOGALION
was invented, it was hitherto unknown
how to mechanically imitate the voice
perfectly.
The GRADUOLA achieves the seem-
ingly impossible. Like a singer’s throat,
it perfectly controls tone
Similar to the vocal chords the GRADCOLA
is elastic in nature and of great flexibility* Like
the throat it expands and contracts and can di-
minish or increase a tone slowly or rapidly and
by imperceptible degrees. The
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is the only phonograph that can accomplish this.
Even. if the VOCALION did not possess
other outstanding features, this one overwhelming
attribute alone, namely, the GRADUOLA, would
be sufficient to make your choice a VOCALION.
i: M I
m
ft
vflPpiQtlCMQ
CompmtV
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
WES
w
Please send me the AEOLIAN VOCALION
Catalog.
Name.
Address.
334 .GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


XNVINnoSO^
uiivno ox mou
It Pays to Qualify
Otherwise—why did 4000 candidates pre-
sent themselves for Accountancy Examina-
tions last year? These men know what the
qualification will do for them. You cannot
afford to stand aside.
80-PAGE FREE BOOK.
Write or call at nearest address. Enquiry
costs nothing. Read the book and see
exactly what “qualification” means to you.
Hemingway U Robertson,
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings,
Custom Street.
“FIRST IN 1897—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
STAS
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“The Mad Hatter”: The eloquent
addresses that were delivered at our school
on the anniversary of the outbreak of the
war made a deep impression on the kids.
One speaker referred to the German inva-
sion of Belgium as the casus belli, so far
as Britain was concerned. Next day little
Jones’s essay on the subject contained this
priceless sentence: “Had it not been for
the bad state of the Kaiser’s belly there
would have been no war.”
* * * *
“Rooinek” : This is apropos nothing. In
July, 1907, the Crown Prince of Portugal
arrived at Lourenco Marques, Portuguese
East Africa, on tour. He was received
with frantic demonstrations of loyalty, and
the functions lasted a week. There were
receptions, loyal addresses from every public
body and from the Indian, Arab and native
communities,-a race-meeting, a bull-fight and
a huge display by 25,000 armed native war-
riors. Every street was an avenue of flags,
arches and colored lights, and the frills
were stated to have cost £50,000. The two
local Portuguese papers nearly burst with
joy, and I helped to make the little English
rag equally fervent. Altogether it was an
exuberant and dazzling affair, and we said,
“Well, anyhow, if there is one thing the
Portuguese are sound on it is their devotion
to their royal family.” Then the Crown
Prince returned to Lisbon, and —well, a few
months later a number of workmen were
chipping the royal arms from the fronts of
all the public buildings in Lourenco Mar-
ques, and replacing them with the Portu-
guese republican emblem.
CONTRIBUTORY NEGLIGENCE.
LAWYER: “You say that by his cruelt,y and
drunkenness and so forth your hus-
band contributed to your—er—miscon-
duct, if any? When did this coldness
first manifest itself ?”
RESPONDENT: “Ooh—about a month before
ice were married!”
“Harvey B.”: Three days Crose’s horses
and cattle had stood in water. The rem-
nant of his flock was netted in on the house
verandah, barely two inches above the rising
flood. “Ain’t it rotten!” he greeted me.
“D’you think they’ll hold the Hospital Ball
to-morrow night?”
“T.P.”: When returned Cameleros talk
believingly. of having seen the manger in
which Christ was born, the hole in which the
Cross was inserted, and scores of other
places ranging back to Abraham, I am re-
minded that in Ballarat years ago we stuck
cannon and a monument on the site of the
Eureka shindy. “True” sites were shown
us by the score, and finally what seemed
the most probable was selected. When the
job was finished I took five of the “rioters”—
HIS BUSY DAY.
“Whatever is the matter, Edwardt"
“All ri" dearest. Been (hie) goin' roun' an' roun' in a motor-car all day, an' nat'-
rally feel li'l’ hit giddy."
grand old chaps they were, too —to see the
memorial'; this was 25 years ago and less
than half a century after the actual clash.
Trouble soon started. Each had his own
idea of the exact position of the Stockade,
each differed from his mate, and each swore
that our memorial was absurdly out. If that
took place in 50 years, what about 2000
years!
* * * •
“Smike”: Any ordinary Melbourne citi-
zen who wants to ring up Sydney needs a
camp bed and a supply of provisions. At
7 the other evening I asked for the ear of
a harborsider, and at 11 when I left I
was no nearer the distant organ than when
I lodged my application. It seems that
Government officials have first call on the
wire, and every night the demand is voci-
ferous. I can’t quite understand why they
keep such a load of conversation corked up
all day, though it may be the sort of stuff
that sounds better at night.
“Pillow-puncher” : Two
flurried matrons quitting
a Sydney maternity hos-
pital went off with the
wrong babies and one got
at far as Newcastle be-
fore she discovered that
she was nursing a strange
infant. But this sort of
complication is not infre-
quent. In one instance
the two women returned
together with the change-
lings. One showed delight
at recovering her off-
spring, but the other still
seemed doubtful. “Well,
you have your own baby
again now,” suggested
Miss Nightingale coax-
ingly. “Oh, no. not
exactly,” replied the per-
plexed one; “you see
mine’s twins.” The miss-
ing infant was dis-
covered fast asleep, but
the hospital staff still
wonders why ma tripped
off at first with one in-
stead of a pair.
“Bouragi” submits a few substitutes:—
Now that the principle of trial by jury in
criminal cases is becoming unfashionable in N. S.
Wales, it may be permissible to rush in where
politicians are already creeping. Something must
be put in the place of the out-of-date system en-
joined by that Magna Charta which has recently
received such a boosting from John Wren and other
stalwarts—with the emphasis oh the warts —of the
Labor party. The writer respectfully submits not
one substitute only but three. They enjoy the
complete confidence of the Papuan peoples who
employ them, which is more than can be said
of trial by jury or the methods which John Storey
or his overseers incline to.
In the Goodenough Bay country, as elsewhere
in Papua, death is looked upon as a suspicious
circumstance, unless it is brought about by some
obvious agency, such as a blow on the head with
a stone-axe, before witnesses. The corpse is wrapped
in palm leaves and tied to a pole for convenience
of carrying. It is then set down in the middle of
the village, while the headman parades the inhabit-
ants and calls the roll. As each name is called the
boss taps the body with a sticky taking a fresh
one from a bundle for every call. When the mur-
derer’s name is beefed out the corpse rolls over,
and that is where the trouble starts for the other
party. If there is nothing doing in one village
the corpse is humped to the next and so on, till
a habeas corpus or something is secured.
On the Mambare the procedure is cleaner, not
less popular and perhaps better suited for summer
use in Sydney. One method is for friends of the
deceased to light a fire of a certain resinous bark
on the outskirts of the village and to climb trees
and await developments. Eventually a large spark
detaches itself and floats away, the watchers noting
its direction. There is trouble where it points.
Another process demands that a prominent citizen
Shall take his place at night in the dead person’s
garden, the crops having first been trampled down
and spoilt. At midnight the ghost of the defunct
comes to see how his taro is getting on, and,
forgetting the reticence demanded of a gentleman
and ascribing the ruin to his slayer, he curses that
miscreant by name, which name is duly memorised
by the hidden watcher.
A glimpse of Storey and Dooley humping a corpse
round the city and suburbs, and getting arrested
for hawking without a license, would brighten up
a drab time in a debt-stricken land. Similarly,
the spectacle of Dunn and Tom Mutch chasing a
flying spark through the midnight streets of Surry
Hills, while McTiernan crouched in a Potts Point
garden to hear a ghost denounce by name the
burglar who had swatted him, would add to the
gaiety of the nation.
Perhaps, too, it might suggest to someone the
wisdom of a return to methods of sanity in these
matters.
* * * *
“Nell T.”: A medico was being shown
over our school last week. As I took him
into my class-room he happened to mention
that he was attached to the V.D. clinic of
one of the big city hospitals. Imagine my
joy when happy recognition dawned on the
faces of two of my nips, brother and sister.
“Miss, that’s our doctor—our doctor at the
hospital! He puts drops in our eyes.”
Mutual recognition, followed. I’m beginning
to be keenly alive to the fact that Workers’
Compensation does not extend to teachers.
* * * *
“D.F.” on murder as a matter of hygiene:
In the days when Macquarie Harbor (Tas.)
flourished as a penal settlement (1822-1832) murder
was. occasionally committed not out of any very
special grudge against the victim, but in order that
the principals and witnesses might get what they
called a slant up to Hobart Town. It meant a
good trip for the witnesses, and it was reckoned
that the murderer and the man he murdered could
not be worse off, wherever they went, than inside
the Hell’s Gates of “the Harbor.” The execution
of John Salmon and Daniel Brown at Hobart Town
on March 2, 1829, was the outcome of an arrange-
ment of this kind. A number of convicts decided
to have a murder, and Stopford, the cook, was
chosen as the lay figure, being reputed a “nose,” or
one inclined to tell tales out of school. Brown and
Salmon volunteered to do the hacking. Salmon
smuggled in an axe and Brown carved the cook up
as he lay asleep. Salmon w r as a man with a primi-
tive or rudimentary kind of conscience, and he had
given the authorities fair warning. A little while
before he had got a trip by confessing to the Com-
mandant that he had been concerned in a murder
near Pittwater. When he could not produce the
proof he was sent back to “the Harbor,” and he then
told the Commandant that he would very soon fix
up a real murder and get another trip. Two days
days later he and Brown “did in” Stopford, and he
went to Hobart Town for the last time.
“Gouger”: Speaking of fantods when no
liquor was available, I had them badly on
Gallipoli, due to incessant alarms and loss
of sleep. They were particularly strong
and fear-inspiring during the small hours
when our very souls were crying for sleep.
These were the hours, too —particularly
those just before the first cold peep of dawn
rniost favored by both sides for an attack.
Time and time again I have clenched my
rifle and, staring through the loophole
across the still darkness to the dim, rock-
silhouetted line that marked the Turkish
trench, have seen shadowy forms crawl cau-
tiously over their parapet, and quickly
disappear into the inky darkness of the gully
that lay midway between the two trenches.
Should I sound the alarm ? My mates
would have the agony of awaking from their
precious four hours’ sleep, to stand with
their bayonets at the loopholes with every
straining sense alert, waiting for the
attack that perhaps would never come.
Would I wait until I heard the Turks
climbing up the gentle slope to our parapet?
Gut by then a shower of bombs would fly
into our trench, and simultaneously with
the explosions would come a fierce, trium-
phant yell of “Allah!” and hundreds of
furious, bayonet-jabbing forms would be
jumping down upon the sleeping regiment.
And so it went on all through those ter-
rible seven months. No wonder each out-
going hospital-boat took with it a heavy
quota of mentally-deranged cases. Bird-
wood knew when he appealed to Australia
to be very patient even though on resum-
ing civil life the returned Digger failed and
failed again.
* * * *
“Exul”: Another instance of the indom-
itable Digger spirit. The Tasmanians were
in the front-line trenches, and had been sub-
jected to a terrific bombardment by Fritz
for several hours. Many men were dazed
and half-crazy as a result of the continued
awful concussions.
Towards evening
the torture sud-
denly ceased, and
a n irrepressible
immediately started
to carol “When
you come to the
end of a perfect
day.’’
SHOWING THE SIGNS ALREADY.
YOUNG WIFE ( valiantly ): “Oh, well, I think
you can he happier if you’re faithful to
your husband.”
FRIEND: “There you are! I told you mar-
riage would give you all sorts of mor-
bid fancies!”
“Male Nurse”: I was a big man, and
specialised in patients who needed to be sat
upon, and one of these was a strong, solid,
17-stone Australian politician, sound but
sinful, who lately, as a result of mixing his
sips, was a little beside himself. He was
the most trying patient I ever had, cunning
and as impish as a vanload of monkeys. He
needed assiduous watching, and got it; but
one morning I went to the seat under the
big tree where he oijten lounged to find that
the figure in the invalid-chair was only a
suit of the patient’s clothes stuffed with
grass. Then began an anxious search. We
discovered the patient heading aci’oss a pad-v
dock, full tilt for the railway station, wear-
ing nothing but a hat. We blocked him
after a hard run and a tough battle, and I
tried to impress upon him the folly of seek-
ing to return to the city to resume his
public duties in the garb in which Adam
went about his business in the earlier stages
of his career. He looked' himself over, took
my hand, and said mildly: “Blank, I be-
lieve you are right, after all. There must
be something the matter with me. I find
I can only think of one thing at a time.”
This time it was the hat.
HONEYMOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time, Time the stern, has called a holiday,
And with a grace ineffable the hours are all at play.
One with the flowers of fancy her hair has inter-
twined,
And one speeds by like thistledown upon a summer
wind ;
And one there is incarnadine, who carols as she
stands
And spills the wine from laughter’s cup with fair,
impish hands.
An hour is clad in moonbeams, and one runs with
a rose,
And one distils the honey-dew from every flower
that blows ;
There is an hour that dances; an exquisite that
dreams
In a still, shining ecstasy, whose fragile beauty
seems
So lustrous and ethereal that one may scarcely dare
Draw breath, for fear the lovely hour dissolve into
the air.
Time, Time the stern, has called a holiday.
Earth has put on her silver shoon and life a ribbon
gay.
And Care calls a truce —a garland on his head!—
Because they still can count the days since you and
I were wed.
x.s.w.
NINA MURDOCH.


aHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIHHHUIHIIIIIHHHUIIII
*
mm
liiiHiiin- =
yjjiiiiiiiiiii
sfllllllilllllljS
m
M
\
\
mil
Hnilli)!lf{lill(!lfii!ll(ii!il>{fiH
m
DEWAR’S
WHISKY
These three points
denote good Whisky
TRADITION-CHARM-
RIPENESS.
Tradition : Just as tradition makes one proud
to be a Britisher, so it promotes pride in your
choice of Dewar's. Long years of good
opinion stand behind the fascinating flavour
and seductive mellowness of Dewar's Whisky.
It is, and always has been; the choice of the
experienced.
Charm l Whenever anything possesses charm,
then genius had a hand in its production. The
persistent power to please of Dewar's Whisky
comes from a genius in blending and distillation
—hence the elusive charm which places Dewar's
far above the ordinary into an ever-widening
circle of praise from men able to discriminate.
Ripeness ! There is a moment tn the process
of maturation when Whisky reaches its fullness
of perfection. At that moment and in that
state of absolute ripeness Dewar's is offered
to its patrons —never before or after that one
culminating point of prime condition. And so
Dewar's is ever a constant source of pleasure
and benefit to mind and body.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWO%
Jhextrahigh GRADE,,*
fi%RUBB£D
3]
A Real
SKin
Soap
THE BEST
OF ITS
kind:
LICMOLLIENE
Cream Soap
Is truly Unequalled for Cleansing and
removing Blemishes from the Skin.
Possesses the Curative Properties of
the Wonderful “LIGMOLLIENE” Skin
Cure. Yields a Rich, Abundant
Lather, and has a Delightful Fra-
grance. Unsurpassed for improving
the Complexion.
Price 1/- Cahe
From W. H. MALYON & SON,
Chemists, Sturt Street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
A Signal Siimgm
Kmggeos^el
WHISKS'
PteTOP-NOTCHSeatA
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
Te W.”: When snake fights snake, as it
sometimes does, the combatants invariably spar for
a neck hold. Once this is obtained the victim’s
spine cracks sooner or later. I don’t think the
poison, if used, has any effect. After the battle the
conqueror leisurely proceeds to absorb his enemy,
head-first. Snake and gohanna (monitor-lizard) fight
in much the same way, and woe betide the snake
whose anatomy slips into the lizard’s toothless but
shear-like jaws! It means practical subdivision.
Gohannas also occasionally scrap between themselves,
while some bulldog-ant, meandering in quest of
trouble, looks on and wishes he was big enough to
take a hand.
THE WISE DON'T KNOW EVERY-
THING.
LEAKNED OLD GENT : “Well, my little man,
how many little sisters and hr others
have you got?”
THE KID: “Dunno!”
THE OLD GENT: “Good Heavens! You
must know. Why don't you know?”
The Kid : "Well, I ain’t been home since
dinner-time.”
FY7 : D.F.” (B. 8/7/’2O) wonders
what use the Western Vic. abos. could have made
of the huge stone-axes (over 61b. in weight) found
in their country. If we can take a line by many of
the Melanesian tribes and the inhabitants of S.-E.
Papua, these tools served as coin. From Cape
Nelson to East Cape on the Papuan S.-E. Coast
and the islands lying off it, beautifully made and
polished axes, usually of a greenish diorite, were
once used for this purpose exclusively. One I
have is over eight inches long by four inches wide at
the broad end and sharpened to a fine edge, besides
being beautifully polished. Such axes were not
affixed to handles, but were kept wrapped up in
soft cloth, and were always difficult to obtain. At
Milne Bay, near Samarai, the heads were fixed to
elaborate and peculiarly-shaped handles, finely carved
and feather-ornamented, but they could only be
used as “trade,” and were as highly valued as the
others. Ceremonial clubs and axes were also made
by the Papuans. On the Mambare these were
fashioned of clay and hung in the village club-
houses for use in the great dance-feasts. Sir Wil-
liam Macgregor bought some of these for stone
weapons once, and was furious at what he con-
seedered a bit of shairp practice. Later he dis-
covered what they were, and then the world seemed
different.
* * * *
“Bright”: A returned-soldier settler
noticed that a couple of his draughts were looking
very seedy and were not eating. He sent for a
vet., who said that sand had found its way into the
stomachs of the animals and there formed into hard
balls. All the cures known to him were tried, but
the horses were dying one by one, and four of them
had gone when a friend of the Digger got busy.
He cut about two inches from a bar of ordinary
household soap, melted it down in lukewarm water,
mixed it with molasses and gave to the horse, in
chaff. If the prad would not eat, the stuff was
forced down its throat without the chaff. The soap
is a strong purgative, and the sand adheres to the
molasses, causing the nuisance to come away very
quickly.
* * * *
“Bill R.”: On the next Bibbenluke
(N.S.W.) sheep-walk to ours, Riley, who herded
the breeding mob, lost the mother of his well-bred
seven-days-old collie pups through laying poison for
native cats. The ewes were, therefore, employed,
though unwillingly, to wetnurse the orphans, and
all was well. They turned out fair sheep-dogs, but
could never be induced to bite the ewes when they
stuck up at a crossing.
* * * *
“W. Blister”: The occurrence mentioned
by “Wop”’recalls a similar incident in the Tiboo-
burra (N.S.W.) district almost 40 years ago. A
gin gave birth to twins, and the grandmother, having
selected the stronger, promptly despatched the weaker#
The police visited the scene, but no action was
taken. The favored one is still living, and is a
healthy child of 15st., so evidently Granny made
no bloomer.
* * * *
“Factograph”: A spider built her angle
web in my outhouse, two feet from the floor. One
day I saw her descend, grab a blowfly pupa that
lay in its brown case on the floor, and, dragging
it up the wall, she hung the little, ham-like thing
up in the meshy web. Three days later I saw the
perfect insect emerge, and struggle to escape. In-
stantly the spider pounced upon the fly and killed
it. How did that spider realise that she would
be able to cash the animated p.n. when it should
fall due?
* * * *
\ “Bilby”: Natives on the islands in Torres
Strait believe that the spirits of the dead can re-
turn. At Toga Island I saw a number of
natives standing around the grave of the
wife of an islander named Simon Qalges.
Over the grave the husband had placed a
cross of native cement, and I saw, stand-
ing by this cross, a native
woman who had the repu-
tation of being able to
hold intercourse with the
spirits of the departed.
About her dress was
crawling a kind of crab
whose bite is very severe.
The woman handled it
without fear, and it did
not attempt to injure her.
After fondling it for
several minutes she placed
it on the ground, and it
immediately retreated into
a hole behind the cross.
The oldest inhabitant told
me that the crab was the
soul of the wife of Simon
Qalges who had come up
from Panoi (Hades), and
that when she appeared on
earth she assumed the
form of the crab I had
seen. Which of course
explained why the crab did not bite the woman.
“Ess”: The Eagle and Child Inn, l noted
landmark on the Lockyer-road (N.S.W.), was built
by an immigrant from the Isle of Man named Myle-
charane. Long ago Mylecharane’s birthplace was
inhabited by an exclusive order of monks, who
allowed no other people a footing there; but an
eagle dropped a female child on the island. The
monks reared the girl, and eventually, so the
story runs, one of them married her, after which the
others left the place. The man who built the Eagle
and Child Inn was reputed to be a descendant of
this union.
* * * *
“Scrub-dasher”; Ever hear of poor pussy-
eating the ears of her young? At our bush pub
(N.Q.) there’s a fine lady-cat who had a litter of
kittens without ears. Some of our customers, spot-
ting this, immediately signed the pledge. However,
later events proved such drastic action wasn’t
necessary, as the cat, on presenting the world with
her next family, was seen to chew off the listeners
of her kittens immediately on arrival.
“Gouger”; Many native witch-doctors,
though undoubtedly frauds, are still marvellously
proficient in sleight-of-hand tricks, which are often
piactically undetectable. One old chap on Saloga
Island completely bamboozled me. All offers of
“trade” to let me witness his operations having
failed, I determined to cautiously watch him. His
INELIGIBLE.
“Yes, Mrs. Casey I up and I called ’er for everything I cud lay me tongue to, and
she never said a word. ’Er a war-bride— l don’t think!”
first “operation” took place on a patch of cleared
ground. Both men were quite naked. The patient
lay flat on the ground, with the doctor kneeling
over him, humming a low, droning chant. Pro-
truding from between the doctor’s teeth were two
small, sharply-pointed pieces of ebony. Nothing
else was visible about the bodies of the two men,
and the operating-theatre was certainly nothing but
bare ground. Presently the doc. made a jab at the
patient s stomach with his mouth, and straightway
appeared to be having a great tussle to suck out
something. By the rapidly-increasing whites of the
patient’s eyes I could see it hurt. Just before the
yelling was due there was a “flop,” and the doc.
sat back on his haunches, his cheeks bulging. He
opened his mouth, and out rolled a stone the
size of my fist. The operation was continued until
a pile of stones was extracted that weighed 121 b.
The last trifle sucked out was a bone lOin. long
and 2in. thick. This final extraction gave the
patient a lively five minutes. Then he hopped up
with smiles all over his face, quite satisfied that
he was cured of all the devils that had been
within him. Where the old fakir hid the stones
had me beaten.
* * * »
“Nor’-West”: There is a better way of
telling tin than “Gouger” describes (B. 24/6/’2O).
Color and weight are good tests, but the most infall-
ible is the “grind.” If a small mortar and pestle
are available, so much the better; if not, the hollow
end of a bottle and the steel butt of a pocket-knife,
or a glass stopper out of a bottle, will do. Tin will’
grind up to a very light grey or light cream color ;
ironstone grinds reddish; wolfram, dark brown;
tourmaline,. dark brown to black. The grind test
is always applied by tin-buyers when in doubt.
Long experience enables tin to be told at a glance.
A well-known buyer at Emmaville (N.S.W.) can
by sight alone tell pretty well what part of the
district any sample of tin comes from. When in
doubt he always applies the test I have described.
* * * *
Mirza”: The idea, alleged to be popular
in South Bananaland, that the native-bear is a factor
in the spread of disease, notablv diphtheria and
consumption (B. 8/7/’2O), has little if any founda-
tion. While tubercular lesions have been noted in
the little animal, they are extremely rare. T B
is widespread in man and some other animals, not-
ably cattle. From these two come, almost without
exception, the invading micro-organisms. In cap-
tivity the bear is subjected to these two sources
of infection; but human beings in the vicinity
undergo similar dangers, and would probably be
infected directly. With regard to diphtheria, an
examination of 20,000 cases at Fairfield (Vic )
failed to incriminate Norman Lindsay’s friend as a
disseminator of the disease.
*i it- ai '. was cam Ped on the banks of
'ftpTn'j I ' 6B ' 0 ’ i us * over the Queensland border. The
Tine f u WaS the laest 1 had struck for weeks.
6 e ,°'' s came next day; they thought the place
. . °°’ ai ‘d camped alongside me. That
ght the fish were jumping. One of the trio had
rain-wave. The three of them departed, return-
ing with a roll of wire-netting. Going to the end
of the waterhole they unrolled the wire, and, dragging
the water to the other "end, brought out over a
dozen good-sized fish, which they said were cod.
What we didn’t eat they cut into steaks, and slung
up in the sun on a length of rope. It dried well,
as did some 50 other fish we caught the following
day.
“Broncho”: The pub at Mclntyre’s Gap,
on the Thargomindah-Hungerford road (Q.), had an
inrush of strange customers a few years ago. A
mob of sheep from somewhere about Mt. Margaret
weie travelling to Bourke. It was a boiling-hot
day, and when near the pub the sheep got out of
control. Half-mad from the heat, they rushed for
SURPLUS STOCK.
“Pooh! My father's a doctor.”
I s'pose he couldn't get anyone to take you.
so lie had to keep you himself.”
shade around Bung’s premises. The doors were all
open and in a few minutes the bar, passages and
rooms were crammed with sheep. The kitchen and
cook’s room got their share; but whether as many
came out of the kitchen as went in I couldn’t say.
(Continued on page 22.)
TWO COOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Easy and affable and gay
And idle as a summer sea,
The cook had always lots to say
And many things to eat for tea;
His apron was as white as snow ;
He looked all clean from neck to toe.
His cook-house roof was low and hot;
His stove an old ill-tempered hell;
And yet he made it work a lot
And carry out its business well;
Though when this happened no man knew,
So little did he seem to do.
Blasphemous, eager, sweating - , grim.
His life from early morn till night
With many details smothered him,
Till he was worsted in the fight; '
There were so many hours to waste
That all things must be done in haste.
His model cook-house was replete
With pots and pans for every turn;
Yet there was nothing much to eat,
Because he let the water burn
While kneading up the sodden bread
That looked like soap and felt like lead.
Too busy far to wash his shirt,
He stood among his clattering tin
And gathered sorrow with the dirt
. That kept him hot and fierce and thin.
He said he had so much to do—
He perished in a swirl of stew.
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


Over 2,000,000 Novels by
Australian Authors.
That is the actual sales record of the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
This great record has been possible because
“Bookstall” Novels represent the best work of the best of the
Commonwealth’s authors.
“Bookstall” Novels are published at a price which puts them within
the reach of every Australian.
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the Commonwealth.
You are cordially invited to inspect the Series at any Bookstall. This Australian
fiction library is unquestionably the best value on the ’Stalls.
1/3 each—All One Price—l/44 posted.
THE LATEST SUCCESS—
“HACK’S BRAT,” by A. lAN MACLEOD.
A Great Australian Bush Novel.
Write for a Complete Catalogue of over 100 Novels.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Populair Sporting Novels.
Hundreds of thousands already sold.
STEELE RUDD’S Famous Selection Stories.
Humorous Books by
EDWARD DYSON
THOS. E. SPENCER
RANDOLPH BEDFORD
NORMAN LINDSAY
Adventure Stories by
BEATRICE GRIMSHAW
jack McLaren
DON DELANEY
LOUIS BECKE
CON DREW’S Great Humorous Story of “crooks,”
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE.”
Sporting Novels by
AMBROSE PRATT
GERALD R. BALDWIN
Bushranging Novels by
DON DELANEY
AMBROSE PRATT
Bush Stories by
H. M. SOMER
BRODA REYNOLDS
Murder Mystery Fiction by
HARRISON OWEN
E. S. SORENSON
Scores of other authors also represented.
All Novels #in the “Bookstall” Series are “live.”
The Bookstall Company carries no dead stock. Every novel is a proved success.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George St,
SYDNEY.
DO
D
60
3Q
&
o
T
THE “ZENITH” ALARM.
The “Zenith” Alarm represents an unusually high-grade
movement in an unusually well-constructed gilt brass case.
Perhaps the most adequate description which can be given
of this new alarm is that, in workmanship, appearance and
unfailing reliability, it m infinitely superior to any Alarm Clock
obtainable. The “Zenith” may be had with luminous or
plain dial, and is guaranteed by the Firm to give years of
exceptional service. The clock will be forwarded post free
and securely packed at the following prices.
Luminous Dial, £3/5/-; Plain Dial, £2/10/- v './?
tit, amimmonb & Co?
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Spring Days Demand
LEVIATHAN TAILORING
Write to-day for patterns.
QUALITY
SUIT
£71151-
Made=to=measure
Spring days have come. A
smartly-cut and tailored Levia-
than suit is a necessity. Greater
confidence in yourself is assured
when well dressed. The
“Quality” Suit is recognised
throughout the Commonwealth
for style and distinctive cut.
Special Home Measure-
ment Chart and Tape
FREE.
Soldiers’ Own Material.
Suit lengths obtained from the
Defence Department, the Levia-
than are prepared to cut and
tailor in similar style to the
“Quality” Suit, supply all trim-
mings, linings and
buttons. Price..
£4)10/-
This Price is not Subject to our
usual 10 per cent. Discount to
Returned Sailors and Soldiers.
i
m
, ; m
■
llrfl
'i,
1 !
HI
/
1®
*
*
’
■
ft
r i
1/
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
T»*
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston
& Bourke Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
I
I
X
Jevtond
¥ EYLAND Char-a-bancs and Motor Busses are
money makers because they cost the least to
maintain and give the greatest reliability and com-
fort to passengers. Omnibuses sold in London in
1910 were commandeered for War Service at the out-
break of hostilities. They ran the whole time during
the War in France and elsewhere and are now back
on their old jobs and giving perfect satisfaction.
%
LEYLAND LOGIC.
Australia offers great oppor-
tunities to enterprising Garage
proprietors—there are so manp
beautiful spots to see and so
mang people anxious to see them.
We will be pleased to advise and
assist gou in selecting the tgpe
of bus or char-a-banc most suited
to gour requirements. All Ex-
port chassis are speciallg built
to suit the conditions of
Australian roads.
lEYLAND MOTORS ETD,,
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street, SYDNEY.
*' You can travel far by the Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Levland Char.” Pty., Ltd-. High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.


Sterling' facfls
concerning'
T>
/■:
o
R
£
•fit
ft
O
6
TRADE MARK.
METAL CEILINGS
On Economic and Artistic Points WUNDERLICH STAMPED STEEL is now employed
for every class of Interior Decoration—
BECAUSE of its DURABILITY, ADAPTABILITY, SIMPLICITY in FIXING Safety
from FIRE and non-harborage of DIRT or MICROBES.
SHOWROOMS:—Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart, Launceston.
CATALOGUES POST FREE ON REQUEST FROM MANUFACTURERS,
WUNDERLICH
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Ce '" na Pe °r> ,B -
Baptist Street, Red fern, N.S.W.
LIMITED
POSTAL D)3ESS:
Box 4?4 G.P.0., Sydney.
Bat : At Goondiwindi (Q.) some years
ago there was among other inhabitants a goat with
a man s-size thirst. Beer was his hobby, and almost
any night Billy was to be seen leaving a local pub
and unsteadily feeling his way along the fence
towards home. He was a decent enough citizen,
despite his failing, until his vision became impaired
and he began to see lizards with purple socks and
other reptiles; then he became quarrelsome. After
cleaning up the bar a couple of times we had to
get a prohibition order against him. He took it
badly and cleared out, and got as far as Boggabilla.
There he resumed his old disreputable habits, and
became the town’s most inveterate beer-sparrer
*
“Horse”: “Gouger” is right (B. 8/7/’2O)
re the Cooktown (Q.) climate “starting the springs
of life anew.’ 7 I went to the district some time
ago, and took with me an old cobber—a pet galah
aged at least 10. For the first time in its natural’
after being there 12 months, this bird laid an
egg. I frowned at the embarrassed bird and gave
the bomb to Professor Munchausen, a local egg-
eollector.
Deirdre : I breathed a Te Deum when
the coach pulled up in front of the light that drib-
bled from a paper-plastered window. We all has-
tened into the shanty—Tommo, Prid, Beaumont and
myself. The grog did its work well; and Tommo
becoming very musical, insisted on dragging us to
the piano in a back room. There Beaumont bogged
in, and away went Tonmfb on his masterpiece—
the Toreador song from “Carmen.” As his voice
towered in columns of shuddering crescendoes he
baited the imaginary bulls with utter recklessness
The song waxed warmer; and as the words flew
fiom Tommo’s galloping lips Beau, swept the key-
HIS LUCK.
THER DEAR OLD LADY (to a chatty Anzac): “You know, soldier, my poor hoy was very
lucky, he went through the war without a scratch.”
CHATTY DINKUM: "'Struth, lady, what sort of insect-powder did he use?”
board with a series of jabs and right-crosses in a
maddening fury. Then a sudden stop. Tommo’s
face whitened horribly as his eyes shot over our
shoulders to the door. Perspiration oozed in big
beads through his forehead. With a yell he dashed
for the window. As his feet bobbed over the sill I
turned to the door to see what dreadful fate awaited
us. Brogan’s old cow had quietly poked its head
into the room to see what all the row was about.
“Mulga’ : I have read all the recipes for
clearing drinking water and tried most of them;
and not- one is within coo-ee of gidya ashes. Out in
Western Queensland, when mustering, dam-sinking
or fencing, in dry seasons you do get bad water's
and for clearing a .square tank-full of it, making it
sweet as well, a shovelful of gidya ashes stands
alone.
lo Po : A New South Welshman
admiringly watched me belting into a lump of Vic.
red-gum. Dained hard,’ I observed, wiping my
brow with the back of my arm; “but there’s no
better cooking wood in Australia!” Then he started
■ to talk, not work. According to him, in the Ma
State myall generates too much heat for ordinary
stove-cooking, as it is apt to melt the bars. “Hotter
than Hell!” I observed, and resumed chopping. How
hard was he pulling my leg?
* * *
lox ; Yacko” (B. 8/7/’2O) is surprised
because the strychnine in poisoned wheat will not
kill weevils. This poison works by over-stimulating
the motor areas in the brain, causing heart paralysis,
and weevils don’t have brains. On the other hand,
a mouse would enjoy the flavor of the tobacco-water
that would turn those insects on their backs.
“FY7”: In a recent Bulletin someone
questions the existence of cannibalism among Aus-
tralian blacks and says that “if it ever did exist
it was in the North.” There is ample evidence of
cannibal practices within comparatively recent times
in North Queensland. Such men as Johnstone and
Douglas of the black police have recorded its cer-
tain existence, and there must be some survivors of
the great Palmer rush who know what the Palmer
River blacks did in the way of cannibalism. The
Jardines and other Northern explorers of the early
days have also left us records of feasts of human
flesh., Stewart Russell in his “Genesis of Queens-
land” speaks of occasional cannibalism further south,
as* at the great quadrennial Bunya banquets on the
Western Darling Downs.
* * * *
Six and Eight”: The value of formic
acid as a cure for snakebite is worth investi-
gating. In the ’seventies a wry-necked Binghi at
Terrabella- station, in the Wellington (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, alleged that his kink was the result of having
been bitten by a death-adder. When bitten the abo“
was alone, and having the black’s horror of a soli-
tary death he tried to get back to his camp. Before
reaching it he fell unconscious on an antbed. When
he came to he was terribly bitten, but, except for
the wry neck, he completely recovered. Locally the
recovery was attributed to the formic acid. Now, here
is a chance for the N. S. Wales Minister for Health
and Motherhood to gain either immortal fame or
immortality by letting an adder bite him and then
lying on a soldier-ants’ bed.
u** * *
“Choppy” : When woodcutting for a cocky
at Wandin (Vic.) our camp was tent and barli-
hurnpy conjoined. For weeks we. lost socks hung
out to dry, pieces of soap and other odds and ends
We blamed the cocky’s wife and kids for this,
and kicked up a row when two shirts and a pair of
dungarees were among the missing. We came home
at noon next day hoping to catch the cocky tribe
m the act, and to our surprise saw old meek-and-
nuld one-horned Strawberry lathering at the mouth.
It dawned on us she was masticating soap. I
remarked: “We’ll put a fence round the camp on Sun-
day.” Next day was Saturday. We hunted Straw-
berry m front of us when we went to yakker but
she’d overheard the fence-talk. When w e returned
our camp was a wreck, and the old blighter had
eaten, among other things, three large loaves, -Jib.
tobacco, 101 b. corn-beef, tjvo packets candles and
bars soa P- . She’d also chewed up the tent-fly
wUh the exception of one corner. She came back
for that a week later.
“Bill Bowyang”: You can take my word
for it (and I know the Barrier Reef as well as the
next man), the giant clam-shell has been the cause
of more than one death in our Northern waters.
Seven years back a Jap lugger called at Mackay,
and reported the loss of an abo. diver on the main
reef, 60 miles from the mainland. Binghi was
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
THE LOCAL GROCER: “Now that I’ve got to sell groceries a hit cheaper, you ought to
cut down your charge for shaving — it’s too stiff altogether .”
THE SOAR ARTIST: “Blime, what y' givin ’ us? Yer pullin’ a long face, so there’s
twice as much ground to go over.”
searching for trepang in eight fathoms of water,
and when he failed to rise to the surface within a
certain time two of his mates went to his assistance.
They found the diver lying face downwards on a bed
of seaweed, and further investigation showed that
he had placed his right foot in an open clam which
had been concealed by the weed. The shell-fish bad
closed on the limb, and the blacks had to force the
“lips” with a bar before they could release the
dead man. I’ll admit that when Nippon told this
yarn to the police at Mackay he might have been
concealing a tragedy. The Japs who control the
trepang industry in Barrier waters are not the best
bosses in the world, and I’ve heard some ugly yarns
regarding their treatment of abo. divers. But this
I know. Some years back I acted as guide for a
party of tourists from Sydney. They wanted fancy
shells, so I took them to Border Island. One of
the party, who was looking for trouble, placed his
boot within a small clam, and it was not until
the sole and heel had been torn from the boot that
he was able to release himself. I myself thrust a
scrub-hook inside an open clam, and the fish closed
its “lips” with such force that the implement was
snapped in halves.
“Gouger”: When black brother of North
Queensland gets a headache one of the tribe well
massages the forehead. The inner bark of a Bloom-
field ash is then pounded into fibre and boiled, and
the steaming mass is applied. For rheumatism the
same cure is tried, often with considerable success.
Another cure for headaches is the letting of blood,
by slashing the victim’s forehead. Another method,
which I do not recommend, is for the sufferer to
lie down while a friendly nig massages the fore-
head with bare feet. I tried this myself, but as
my nigger’s feet were full of great crevices, due
to walking for. 40 years over rocky country, and
felt like steam-powered rasps, I soon decided to
put up with the headache.
“Zanthus”: The wife of a wayback sta-
tion-owner in S. Aus. was new to the bush, and
when she met a family of abos. wandering around
unclothed on a cold winter day she felt that some-
thing had to be done. She asked the boss abo.
about it. In reply he wanted to know if she
wasn’t cold with her face uncovered. The lady
said that that was all right because the face didn’t
need covering against the cold. “That’s it,” said
Johnny. “Blackfellow he face all over.”
“W. Blister”: I enter Carranjella, born
at Tibooburra (N.S.W.) and now deceased, as the
Australian abo. record heavyweight. At 19 he
turned the scale at 23st. He had an appetite to
match, it being quite an ordinary performance
for him to devour a leg of mutton ' and a loaf of
bread between meals.
~ : K popular misconception about
e apuan is that he' is a mighty head-hunter.
, ls ao ‘ H has ceased in the settled
parts of the Territory for nearly 20 years, and is
. confined to a comparatively small part which
is not yet within Government influence. The large
num ei of skulls that were seen in villages when
first visited by white men gave rise to the mis-
conception. As a matter of fact, most of these
skulls were those of deceased relatives which were
reverently preserved until Government compelled their
interment. A war-trophy head is preserved with
the skin in situ, or is skinned and the eye and
mouth apertures are blocked up with pithy wood
and ornamented with nacre and red berries. The
head of a slain enemy is preserved partly as a
trophy and partly on account of the natives’ belief
in spooks. It is thought that decapitation operates on
the spirit of a slain enemy as well as on his body,
and that being deprived of eyes to see it cannot
seek out and take revenge on the slayer.
**• * *
“Jim Carew”: On the Monaco some years
back an outlaw colt, after a great exhibition of
pigrooting, squealing-, rearing- and bucking, got rid
of its rider, saddle and girth. The girth was still
buckled and unbroken when I picked the saddle up.
P.S. —I was the rider, but left the colt's back some
minutes before the saddle.
“Pick”: When all the other Abo. explorers
have explained how they find out which is north,
let me put them on to the surest method and the
easiest. All gum-trees peel their bark more cleanly
under the direct influence of the sun’s rays. There-
fore the unshed layers of dead bark are always
found more thickly on the southern side of the
vegetable.
* * * *
“Yooroonah”: There’s still a bit of cedar
left. Four large trees were recently found by J.
AVheatley on the Back Tableland, Upper Macleay
(N.S.W.). The trunk of the largest was 61ft.
long, and contained 6300 super feet. Owing to the
roughness of the locality it had to be cut into
five pieces before it could be taken from its home.
* * * *
“Veronal”: Peron, an old-time French
naturalist, made an interesting test, by means of
the dynamometer, of the relative strength of the
arms and loins of Englishmen, Frenchmen, natives
of Timor, and aborigines of Van Diemen’s Land
and New Holland. So far as the arms are con-
cerned JBinghi came off worst of all, being awarded
50 points as against 58, 69 and 71 gained by
Timor natives, Frenchmen and Englishmen respec-
tively. In loin strength, however, our dark brother
was only about one point below the Timor people
and five or six behind the French and English. For
his experiment Peron collected 12 Tasmanian, 17
Australian and 58 Timor natives, 17 Frenchmen (of
his expedition) and 14 English colonists. Allow-
ance should be made, however, for Binghi’s meagre
diet of ’possum, kangaroo and a little fish and
edible roots. Even Dick Arnst wouldn’t win the
boatraee on that tucker.
THE EVERLASTING RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Written in dejection after three (or 33) weeks of
black umbrellas.
Without a break the rain comes clown ;
The clouds upon the housetops rest;
Gloom gnaws its fingers at the town,
And life is but an empty jest.
The snarling trams crash on their way,
Spitting green flashes as they pass;
Damp drunks who never could be gay
Drain Misery from one more glass.
Even the optimist who crows,
“Ah, this will bring the crops along!”
Is still. The spreading flood that flows
Across the land has drowned that song.
When for an hour the sun looks out,
It only makes the city steam;
White vapors, wreathing round about,
Resemble serpents in a dream.
The sodden, soggy hours go by,
Slow ghosts in macintoshes grey,
With damp umbrellas held on high,
Goloshing on their lonely way.
A sudden roar, as though a mob
Had broken loose upon the town !....
The down-pipe gives a gurgling sob
And in white sheets the rain comes down.
N.B.W.
KODAK.


•yy
y, ;
yy
y-
/
A
y,
a
■r
aM
rz
S.
e?U
Va
cry
r
m
s&
SS
y-
-*T
yS
?
y,
S;
rrii
&
%
y
Si
S'
rr
JySS
rr.»
rn
riri
rr
rrr
rr
1
rr
nrr
rr
i ..' S -
—=SS2~~r
i«> v
il
■—
33**
£
■
* /
V
>a ; f
,
'5 „ »
li«ii»l^*MPiliii
.!
It’s Easy to Prove the Value
of “ Dunlops ” against any other make of tyre on the market
If you are not influenced by the- fact that more than half
the motorists in this country give preference to these depend-
able tyres on account of value received, then determine
for yourself what service a ‘"Railroad” Dunlop Cover will
give when tested against another make. Fit a pair of new
covers of equal size, one a “Railroad,” to the driving wheels.
See that the back brakes are evenly adjusted; keep the
tyres evenly inflated, and watch results. It will not be
long before you will note that
DUNLOP TYRES
are remarkably free from chips and cuts. It’s our high-
grade rubber compound that ensures this close-grained smooth-
ness of wear—it’s a striking feature in “Dunlops.”
After you have travelled some thousands of miles it
will need no expert to determine that the “Railroad” shows
less sign of wear—in fact is the better cover. Use the
two covers until they each get on to the canvas, noting the
mileage covered by the respective tyres up to the time
when the rubber tread is worn through. Now divide the
mileage of the “Railroad” into its cost, and do the same
with the other cover. The “Railroad” will invariably give
the lowest running cost. It is this superiority—traceable to
highest quality of materials and plenty of them—that places
“Dunlops” first for value and service. You will find it
a payable proposition to always give preference to “ Dunlops.”
No tyre will give you more mileage few as much.
All garages can supply in “Railroad” or “Grooved.”
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
AND N.Z.
ALL STATES


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in the
WxUL
SCHNAP^ 6
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
r~rT7Z
I No. U.
( t c, r Spy.. ;
l -ii' iVi" j
CIS
aL
colds
caoup
LUNG
TBOUBIO
IS
COUCHS
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
(D
yet science is becoming day by day more
important to all successful industry—except
criticism. Can we blame the young men
who see a brighter future in any walk of
life other than that of teaching or the
pursuit of science? It pays them better to
do almost anything for which the training
is shorter, less arduous and less expensive.
At 21 the science student does not earn his
board and lodging; the driver of a cart at
the same age earns enough to marry on and
strike. At 25 the young scientist may think
himself lucky if he gets £4 a week from
some manufacturer who has persuaded him-
self that science might be able to help him
if he gets it at a low enough rate. Later
again our young scientist, if he have luck
and influence, may become a professor at £0
a week, or an analyst at £7. If he lives
a life of celibacy he may be able to afford
to do a little research work on his own
account. There are of course great prizes;
but these seldom fall to the men or women
with no means of their own. Those with
private incomes can specialise on their own
account, and thereby they may win rewards
—either in kudos or in cash.
When we remember how little the intel-
lectuals have to look forward to we can
understand their philosophic anarchism, and
their preaching of discontent and clamor for
reform. But the reform they really want is
in their own status. Though they are not
as a rule prepared to admit it, capital does
not oppress them so much as the contempt
for the schoolmaster and the scientist which
is common to all classes—common to-day
almost as much as it was in those centuries
when the monk lived upon charity. It is
indeed not the capitalist who employs the
majority of the teachers; it is the State, and
every State in Australia has been at some
time or other under Labor rule. And as
for the scientist, if we doubt the continued
existence of the old contempt, even though
it be modified in form, we have only to mark
the blatant attacks upon scientific opinions
so frequently made in the press and in Par-
liament by persons entirely unqualified to
express opinions, the applause which fre-
quently follows the attacks, and the absence
of all condemnation on the part of the mob.
Wipe out this contempt, and the young in-
tellectual will be paid as well for his services
as the road-mender and the horse-driver, as
the wharf-lumper, the miner and the builder’s
laborer. Being paid as well there will then
be no lack of youths seeking training, and
the causes of intellectual unrest will largely
disappear. Science will become the partner
of industrial progress and not be, as at
present, its neglected and starved slave.
T. D. C.
Synge and the Irish
For James Stephens let us be truly thank-
ful.
But “D.M.W.” (Red Page 24/6/’2O) is
doing Stephens great disservice in lauding
him at the expense of Synge. As none
knows better than Stephens himself, Irish
life is not all, or even mostly, a thing of
lightness and joy and laughter or senti-
mental sadness. The artistic tragedy of it
is that the intellectual wakening to that
knowledge leads the Irishman into politics.
Even Stephens himself, both as master of
prose and elfish poet, has gone down the
slippery way. It was the saving of Synge
the- artist —the making of the greatest prose
dramatist since Shakspeare, or Bhcon, or
the Earl of Oxford, or whoever else he
didn’t happen to be —that politics left him
absolutely untouched, and all the Irish up-
roar that has greeted the performance of
Synge’s plays in the United Kingdom and
America is but the human chagrin at the
innocent, quite unpolitical exposing of what
was, after all, a laughable political self-
delusion. Ireland to-day recognises that her
case for self-government rests on solider
grounds than the politically irrelevant fact
of the chastity of Irish women. Only such
a naturally humorous race as the Celt could
ever have been so unconscious of the real
humor of the situation that came to a head
with the production of “The Playboy.” In
the cause of independence, the tradition of
the stage Irishman, a creature of innocence
and gentleness, whose wild humor was still
within the bounds of good taste, was used
as part of the Nationalist propaganda, and
with such emphasis that even Irishmen came
to believe it of themselves, and so saw in
Synge’s characters but a murderous attack
on the Cause.
No man showed more shrewdly sympa-
thetic insight into the life of the true Irish
peasant, the unspoiled primitive naturalness
of him, than Synge, a primitive type him-
self in his absolute freedom from affectation
of any sort. A solitary with the keen sen-
sitive eye of the true artist, too fastidiously
sensitive, proud and passionate .even to think
unworthily; one who, from natural bent
and years of companionship in many coun-
tries of Europe, was at home with the un-
spoiled children of earth, he went, at the
bidding of W. B. Yeats, to the Aran Islands
where, almost alone in Ireland, was the true
peasant to be found. Four successive win-
ters he lived with the Islanders, as one of
themselves, and yet, as he himself admits —
and lucky for literature it was, too—as
one apart. I know no other book, of its
own or any other kind, that brings such
conviction of essential truth as his “Aran
Islands.” It is no mere attempt to write
those barren rocks, and yet, for all Synge’s
economy of words, it is a rare piece of
prose, throbbing with a passionate sympathy
and understanding. The peasant is there m
all his nobleness, and his humaneness, too.
Synge has no illusions about the virtue of
accepted standards of an artificial civilisa-
tion and, with his sensitiveness to tone, he
detected any false note that had crept/ into
the Islands from the Mainland. He knew
that whatever is natural is never sordid,
hence the serene mixture of angel and brute
in all his characters. In the book, too, are
the germs of almost all his plays—the tale
he was told of the husband who feigned
death (which blossomed into “Shadow
of the Glen”) ; the facts he knew, from his
own knowledge, of whole families paying the
toll of the fishing life (which brought forth
“Riders to the Sea”) ; the tale of the son
who killed his father and found protection
in the Islands (the idea round which he
wove the rich humor of “The Playboy”).
Some day the no-longer blinded Irish will
canonise him for his vindication of the
national character in “The Playboy of the
Western World.” What is Christy Mahon ?
Neither a weakling nor a fool, buit, as Jack
Yeats has wisely said, "a young poet in the
supreme difficulty of getting born; only in
his case the struggle is a little worse than
usual.” As to the ethics of the peasants’
view of Christy’s killing of his father, the
joke is on Synge’s critics. Why, with
serious intentions to hand him over to the
law, do the peasants ultimately turn on the
Playboy? Simply because, in view of them
all, he actually, as they think, kills the old
man. And as to Pegeen, remember she is
no aristocratic beauty, no frail blossom of
culture, no legendary Deirdre, but a peas-
ant girl reared in surroundings which, in
any country other than Ireland, could have
had but one effect. And what a figure she
is ! All the fierce Duina-like purity, all the
savagery, all the coarse, wild humor, all
the wild poetry of the mist and sunshine
of Ireland are in her. Presumably to
“D.M.W.” she is part of the “aspect of
peasant life which was so hateful to aver-
age Irish thought that the play caused a
not when put on the stage.” Maybe! But
when the same average Irish thought, unen-
cumbered by the political passion which was
the real cause of the riot, grows into the
average Irish wisdom, it will recognise in
her Synge’s glowing tribute to the Irish
peasant girl.
O’H AONIAN.
The Sport of Kings and Crooks
On July 1 The Bulletin published an.
article on the vice that is alleged to be
horse-racing, and it is a coincidence that
it now receives The Sport of Kings, printed
by Venables and Co., of Napier (M.L.),
and written by “A Plebeian.” The writer is
a sane man in a horse-crazed land, and
makes many good points. Some of them
may be condensed as follows
Horse-iacing is not a sport in the sense of yacht-
ing, where the sportsman generally goes to sea
himself; or flying, where he goes up in the aero-
plane himself; or fishing 1 , which the fisherman does
personally ; or even cricket and football—the non-
professional variety. The. English Derby or Mel-
bourne Cup could be won by a spinster of 95
lying bedridden in Peru, and she would be a sports-
female.
It isn’t an institution in which the best animal is
supposed to win. No diseased, bald sheep or mis-
shapen old bullock or mongrel dog gets first prize
in a show because of its. weight-for-age allowance
or its three yards start, and the hen with one leg
has to run strictly on its merits in the egg-laying
competition. But a vast number of expensive haii-
dicappers are paid to give the bad horse the same
chance as the good one purely for gambling pur-
poses, and if the hireling overdoes it by accident
the worst beast with the smallest dwarf on its
back may win.
Racing is supposed to have something to do with
the improvement of the breed of horses, which is
possibly the reason why so many racers are geldings.
Anyhow, the successful racer or sprinter is of no
value except for his own “sporting” purpose.
Breeders who improve draught-horses, cows, sheep,
hens and even fruit-trees do their work without
filling the land with gambling and blasphemy and
inducing the whole community to take frequent
days off to the great damage of industry.
Racing is pre-eminently the business' of betting
men, welshers, fools, ruffians and thieves, so it
requires a special force of guardians of the peace.
The promoters of a Surrey (Eng.) race-meeting pub-
lished a list to assure the public that it might
attend without being sandbagged by the influx of
London sports and having its clothes stolen:—
14 detectives (racing).
15 detectives (Scotland Yard).
7 police inspectors.
9 police sergeants.
76 police and a supernumerary contingent of
specially-selected men from the Army Reserve and
the Corps of Commissionaires.
The business is so dishonest that it is a frequent
eulogium on a racing man that “he always gave
the public a run for its money.” Defence of the
sort is necessary about racing men, but not .about
other sportsmen. If any writer assured the public
that Victor Trumper or Warwick Armstrong never
sold a test match there would be trouble, for
neither Trumper nor Armstrong ever looked so like
a thief that it was needful to say his appearance
belied him.
Racing has produced a disgustingly dull and
stupid literature of its own —something like this:—
“At the outset Staylace was in strong demand,
but shortly a pronounced move was made in favor
of Shoestring. Supporters of the son of Bootjack,
however, were not to be denied, but rallying to
his support replaced him at the head of affairs
until a strong demonstration in favor of the repre-
sentative of St. Crispin placed the bay gelding
ahead of the brother to Bradawl.” Shakspeare never
wrote like that.
Possibly this book is one sign of the begin-
ning of a return to sanity in Horsetralasia.
Parsons’ Sons and Others
Take out the sons of parsons and the list
of English literary men looks a lot thinner.
Here are some of them: Joseph Addison,
Henry Alford, Grant Allen, Matthew Arnold,
John Fletcher (Beaumont’s partner),
Calverley, Coleridge, Cowper, Dryden, Emer-
son, Fronde. Goldsmith, Ilazlitt, Keble,
Charles Kingsley, Henry Kingsley, Lock-
hart, Lowell, Tennyson, Thirwall. James
Thomson, Young. To these might be added
a number of women-writers including Char-
lotte and Emily Bronte, ..Jane Austen, Eliza-
beth Gaskell and Joanna Baillie. This is
by far the biggest of any group owning a
similar parentage. Keats called a servant
at a pub Dad; Shelley’s parent was a
baronet; Chaucer’s was a wine-seller;
Charles Lamb’s a lawyer’s clerk; Thacke-
ray’s an Indian civil servant: Poe’s an
actor; Southey’s father sold cloth and Spen-
cer’s made it; Stevenson’s had fame, equal
in its way to his son’s, as a lighthouse
builder. An immense number of dis-
tinguished writers who missed front rank,
but hardly any who attained it, have left it
on record that their progenitors were
“humble. ’ Carlyle had a stonemason to
provide for his infancy and Defoe had a
butcher; but that didn’t prevent either of
them standing erect. Mary Ann Evans
(George Eliot) was the daughter of a land-
agent—and somehow her parentage seems
to fit her. Francis Turner Palgrave was the
son of Sir Francis Palgrave, who was the
son of Meyer Cohen, who became a Christian
to get a wife; and Tom Paine’s father was
a Quaker who made corsets. But perhaps
the most notable thing of all about the
parentage of writers is the number of big
authors who were the children of little ones.
A Satchel of Books
The Chorus Girl and Other Stories, by
Anton Tchekov (Chatto and Windus), tells
some rather arid yarns in the emaciated
English of *a not over-brilliant translator.
Tchekov is remarkable for his sensitive
nose. He mentions a house perfumed with
mushrooms, and is aware of the odor of
freshly-scrubbed floors. Also he creeps up
carpeted stairs that for some reason (not
supplied) stank like a rubber factory. What-
ever else he is, Tchekov is one of the Best
Smellers.
The Greater Glory, by William Dudley
Pelley (Little and Brown, Boston). There
is a quiet charm about this novel of New
England life which should carry it a long
way. The incidents cover a wide sweep of
time, and revolve round a newspaper in a
small town. It is the seeming tragedy
of ii good woman’s life redeemed by the fact
that she sends six stalwart sons out into
the world to do the world’s work. The
characterisation is good, and there are
touches of real pathos.
Shuttered Doors, by Mrs. William Hicks
Beach (John Lane). As a yarn this book
is not thrilling; but there is some good char-
acter-drawing and a lot of atmosphere. The
author’s irritating method is to dwell at
great length on rather trivial details, and
then leap over events such as the heroine’s
courtship and marriage in about a page.
Still, the vivid contrasts of life in a small
English city and the aristocratic life lived
near it are worth while. There is a very
decent duke who likes to sit in a lady’s draw-
ing-room in his stocking-soles while he dis-
cusses the upbringing of his son. And the
lady in whose house he is so much at ease
drives her own produce, including calves,
to the local market.
Letters of Travel, 1892-1913, by Bud-
yard Kipling (Macmillan and Co., London).
Hurried impressions of Canada, U.S.A..
Japan and Egypt reprinted from the Times,
Morning Post and Nash’s, and exhibiting
less of Kipling’s qualities than his defects.
Never more than good journalese: clever but
lacking in depth and disfigured by a con-
tinual strain-ng after effect. But some-
times the author says a shrewd thing in a
pungent way: e.g., this of the U.S.A. 28
years ago:—
Behind her stands the ghost of the most bloody
war of the century' caused in a peaceful land by long
temporising with lawlessness, by letting things
slide, by shiftlessness and blind disregard for all
save the material need of the hour, till the hour
long conceived and let alone stood up, full-armed,
and men said “Here is an unforeseen crisis,” and
killed each other in the name of God for four years.
There is another country that temporises
with lawlessness, and is shiftless and
thoughtless and lets things slide.
The Inky Way
Tasmania will be the first State to issue
a history of its part in the war. The volume
is now well in hand, and Waleh’s (Hobart)
will publish it for the Government about
September. The thing has been supervised
bv L. Broinowski, associate-editor of Hobart
Mercury, who roped in men from various
battalions and branches of the service to
write what happened to their sections. If
there is any profit it will go to the B.S.A.
“124”: Not only the winner, the Geelong
Advertiser, but nearly every newspaper in
Victoria, felt relieved when the Ozanne libel
case failed ; for it was said that the shot at
the Geelong paper was only the preliminary
to a similar shot at every paper which had
commented on the M.P. for Corio’s military
service. Few would have escaped, for the
alleged libel was based on publicity matter
issued by the Prime Minister’s Department,
and purporting to be the report of Monash
himself. »
GENTLEMEN CRITICS AT PLAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tinkle-tinkle! Tootle-tootle! Fairy flam and flowerv
footle!
Verse that simpers, faints and wheedles, done with
maiden knitting-needles.”
* — “A. Scoundrel” (B. 15/7/’2O).
Sneer and jeer and bray and bellow,
Here’s a hoity-toity fellow!
Throw away your pens, my pretties,
Master Scoundrel scorns your ditties.
What avails a dainty measure
Should ’t incur your lords’ displeasure?
Sappho, cease your piping thin,
Get you to your rolling-pin!
Rat-a-tan ! Rat-a-tan !
Give us verse for a man!
Give us red blood, hot and steaming
Give us guts—and damn your dreaming!
Never drive a man to think ;
Sing him staves of meat and drink!
Rat-a-tan ! Rat-a-tan !
Butcher’s meat for a man!
Sickly songs of Keats and Shelley
Never Soothed an empty belly;
Skylarks wouldn’t fetch a button '
In a market stocked with mutton.
Don’t be foolish, little misses,
Give your masters beef and kisses!
Tf their tender hearts you’d move,
Tender see your joint doth prove.
Six o’clock strikes. Roar together :
Rat-a-tan! Rat-a-tan!
Give us verse for a man!
Something suitable for yelling!
Stanzas of the stable smelling!
Pick and shovel verses these,
Tuneful as a bullock’s. sneeze.
Rat-a-tan ! Rat-a-tan !
Beef and beer for a man !
N.S.W,
MARGARET FANE.


gsdfv
*StudebaKer advises
early booking' for
the “»Special Six”
THERE are already a few fortunate possessors of the Series
20 Studebaker “Special Six” in Australia. But new
stocks have been light, and we are glad to be able to
announce that bookings can now be made for early deliveries.
And, since priority will be given in order of booking, whoever
is anxious to become the pleased possessor of a Studebaker “Special
Six” will do well to take immediate action.
Studebaker produces two types of this beautiful model —the Five-
passenger “Special Six” and the Four-passenger Roadster. These
are two of the most delightful cars yet offered to Australian
motorists.
The “Special Six’’ is a car of 119-inch wheel-base, with 29-horse-
power Studebaker-designed and Studebaker-built demountable-head
motor; improved carburetter, with “hot-spot” intake manifold;
artistic, torpedo-shape cowl lights at comers of windshield; outside
and inside door handles, and tonneau light with extension cord.
Aero-type Dixie high-tension magneto; a particularly effective and
improved speedometer, and Goodyear Cord Tyres throughout are
further excellent features.
The beauty of the design of the “Special Six” needs only to be
seen to win instant admiration. The ample roominess and the
richness of the Genuine French Plaited Leather upholstery make it
a car of luxurious comfort.
The Studebaker “Special Six” is built with a keen regard for
Australian conditions. The frame has been developed by years of
experience and study. It is strong enough to meet all requirements.
The powerful, responsive engine is wonderfully economical of petrol.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 17 7 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros-., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams
Christchurch,
m North,
Limited,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
gsd


m
The Man
Who Grasps a
RABBIT
gains some money.
Prices acre not what
they were. But
they are still good.
For Top Market Values consign RABBIT,
FOX, KANGAROO and other skins:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.)
Sydney or Brisbane.
Salesmen only.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of che system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
2S
PlfTMii
A SEASON’S
PLEASURE
The best time you ever
thought of is waiting.
Healthy exercise and
pleasure are free, why
not get out into the fresh
air and enjoy life, take
the opportunity and ad-
vantage offered by nature
and visit all those places
you have thought so much
of and let those plans and
schemes become your re-
creation. You will never
regret insisting on a
bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings. The first-
class reputation of B.S.A.
Fittings in England is a
sure guarantee, while
perfect construction en-
sures easy running, reli-
ability and long service.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
B.S.A. Fittings are guar-
anteed interchangeable.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing
B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A.
MJSiTRWISI&N
■M
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BHAS
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
Mrs?
fisffig I
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents,
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
%
N
&
ft
f
&
%
A
See tniy
lbr<su\cl
on eaoli
-Phi r t.
&
ft
'4Z
\
w
*i=
III!
Ml
1
Shirts
have the materials and. workmanship
that stand the tub-test. No shrink,
stretch or warp. Wearers of THISTLE
SHIRTS get everything in quality, refinement
and class that critical taste demands.
Look for the Thistle Label on the next shirt
you buy.
THISTLE SHIRTS and PYJAMAS are sold
by men’s clothing shops the country over.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers-BRISBANE & SYDNEY.
dSi
JV.9-3
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, cqlchicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded "by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricsema.
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
From all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from Chatelain’s
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY: 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. U
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Jimsey”: Here is a timber-getting dodge
that is often successfully worked. When
ironbark is specified and is bard to get,
spotted-gum is procured. Sheets of iron-
bark bark are placed over it. and boiling
water poured on. After two lots of boiling
water it takes a real expert to drop to the
wicked deception.
“A.M.S.”: Sit on the woodheap and listen
to this. Recently a man living 31 miles
from Melbourne made inquiries regarding
the disposal of 200 tons of wood—in three-
feet lengths—which he had cleared from bis
land. Cost of cutting and freight .ran out
at 12s. per ton, and Melbourne merchants
offered him 15s. Wood was then selling at
£2 12s. Gd. per ton in the city: His axe
is rusting now.
* * * *
“Expert Too”: Want to know the chief
reason for delay in telegraphic business?
Every office is staffed on the basis of annual
averages. But a telegraph system is some-
thing like a railway system—both are sub-
ject to fluctuating demands. Race meetings,
shows, market antics, droughts, floods, visits
of royalty, etc., all mean slump or conges-
tion. The telegraph service disregards these
and merely provides for the normal.
* * * *
“Copabella”: Prohibition, if it does no-
thing else, will at least remove temptation
from the prohibitionists themselves. A Vic-
torian Rechabite lately held a clearing sale,
and his -“tent” has had to fine him for hav-
ing a cask of beer on tap for the mellowing
of purchasers! The auctioneer had empha-
sised that no alearing sale could be a success
without a supply of the time-honored lubri-
cant. and the son of Rechab was taking no
chances.
* * * *
“Horse”: Flax-cultivation should attract
the attention of farmers in N.S.W. and
Bananaland. Victorian farmers had under
cultivation in 1919 over 2000 acres, and the
present season will see nearer 3000 acres
carrying this crop. Recently 14 tons of Vic-
torian-groAvn flax sold in the open market
realised £325 per ton. Linseed is in the
neighborhood of £5O per ton, or 255. per
bushel of 561 b. While this quotation may
recede, it is not likely that there will be a
very serious decline in prices for years. A
very large portion of the goods manufactured
from flax will be produced in Australia once
the raw material is assured. Importation of
such lines into the Commonwealth for 1919
amounted to £1,893.723. As for the linseed
there is already an established market in
Australia; Meggits, Ltd., alone consume
approximately 20,000 tons of seed annually.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : Fitzroy still has
some quaint old signs over its pubs. In
Brunswick-street stands the Labor-in-Vain,
with the Perseverance on the opposite cor-
ner. Over the Labor-in-Vain entrance is a
picture of two burly white men vigorously
scrubbing a black boy. The Perseverance
has a similar picture over its entrance, with
the difference that the coon is now scrubbed
half-white. The old Perseverance has gone,
but the new house erected on the site retains
the old sign. The Labor-in-Vain, with its
gabled roofs and flagged courtyard, is one
of the fast-diminishing gold-days’ inns of Mel-
bourne. There is a fine old tavern in King
William-street, on the corner of Nicholson-
street —St. Andrew’s, with ornamental trees
and grass-plot on the two street fronts.
Fifty years ago St. Andrew’s was a favorite
resort of bacchanalian bohemians, especially
on Saturday nights. It was midnight clos-
ing then.
* * * *
“Smike”: “T.A.R.” says (B. 8/7/’2O)
“there is no known timber equal to the im-
ported Oregon for lightness in proportion to
strength.” A 5 x 2 seasoned Australian
hardwood beam with a span of 21ft. will
stand practically the same breaking strain
as a 5 x 3 Oregon of the same span, though
there is one-third less material. Even com-
paring green hardwood with Oregon, the
local timber is not disgraced. The break-
ins- load for the aforesaid Oregon chip is
20281 b. Green hardwood of the same weight
measures out at 21ft. x 5- x 1.7, and will
endure a load of 16231 b., or only 19 p.c.
less, with a saving in timber of 43 p.c.
There are, however, two other factors—
inflammability and deflection —that stiffen
the case for the Australian shrub. Oregon
will be a cinder in half the time it takes
hardwood to ignite, while the deflection on
a load of 5001 b. is 2.3 to 3,9 against the
imported tree. It is alleged that Oregon
can beat hardwood in the matter of cost,
but as normally.one requires about a third
more Oregon than hardwood to achieve the
same results, it is doubtful if even on this
point Oregon is the better investment.
BALLADE OF FRUSTRATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I quail beneath the jurisdiction
Of all my creditors unpaid,
Whose ineluctable restriction
Chains Poesy to sordid Trade.
Where is the chant of pool and glade,
The splendid things I ache to utter?
Wait, Fortune, wait—ah, fickle jade,
This is a song for bread and butter!
Where is my book of deep prediction,
Such as the thoughtful Wells portrayed?
The philosophic contradiction
That puts old Nietzsche in the shade?
Where are injustices inveighed,
Setting my readers in a flutter?
These calls I haven't yet obeyed;
This is a song for bread and butter.
Then there’s a book of glowing fiction,
The stuff by which men’s hearts are swayed,
A masterpiece of thought and diction,
Warm with the love of man and maid,
But still undone; and I'm afraid
’Twill have to wait, what time I stutter
In quip and foolish pasquinade:
This is a song for bread and butter.
L’Envoi.
And lyrics, too, I might have made:
Fine, flowing verse, sans halt or splutter;
But there’s a butcher to be paid....
This is a song for bread and butter!
N.S.W.
ALAN B.


Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY
FIRST COST.
When you buy a Willard
battery with Threaded
Rubber Insulation,.you pay
more for it, but you don’t
bring it backfor re-insulation,
and the consequences—a
big bill to you. It stays on
the job until it has delivered
all the service you bought—
and generally a lot more
than you believe possible.
Try it once —and you’ll feel the
same as 99 per cent, of all
who own Willard batteries with
Threaded Rubber Insulation.
STORAGE
BATTERY
fvgs
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
&
A
0
MB?


PA
Hose of * Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibresuandstrong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite ” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRjO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
CfttMfc
Do You Look
As Young As
You Feel?
MAYBE because
you feel fine you
fail to notice as others
do the little lines
stealthily forming in
your face. Take care
of your skin now.
Try this simple formula —
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little Elcaya rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of faoa
powder over all.'*
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4 76-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THE. GRESHAM.
Brisbane’s Leading' Hotel.
X=jJl4 Mm
r, - *
'■/</(/?tv] PI
r , JjO M
m
jgsgfsv ' ?
!]JfiL±JU , #/'&y
T 1
Is
X
38
#
w/o/
jTOy/z
LI 111
**B
mx
tss£
nV>N^Oy.
/fMxj&SUk,.
<d£EB&
* k ‘"|
M«V»U Surf*"
C JOMNSOrIMOK
• ftACINf Wik __
IL*OHNjOWeSO«Mi
CIM.
Here’s the
Polish !
r pO use Johnson’s
1 Prepared Wax you .
need only a cloth —no
brushes, sprays nor mops of any kind. With very
little rubbing you can produce a lustrous, lasting
polish of great durability.
You can use Johnson’s Prepared Wax over any
finish, whether varnished, French-polished or
oiled, and the result will be a hard, dry, velvety
polish impervious to water, dust, scratches, heel-
marks and finger-prints.
Liquid and Paste
is more than a polish, for it forms a thin protect-
ing film which serves as a wonderful preservative
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
Sprinkled over any floor will immediately give a
perfect dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to supply you with this most
satisfactory polish.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
“Catamain” : “Arthur R.” remarks of long
telegraph lines that they often work better
in wet weather than dry (B. 8/7/’2O).
Electricity travels on the surface of its
conductor, and the moisture on the wire in
wet weather provides a conductor of much
lower resistance than the dry surface.
British railway charges ate being again
increased (by one-third this time) to meet
the late wage increases. When a much
smaller increase was made for the same rea-
son in N. S. Wales Minister Dooley said
proudly that any “blithering idiot’’ could
meet the case that way. Now it seems that
they have blithering idiots in Britain also,
and only Dooley is wise. * .
“Disgusted”: It seems to be a disappoint-
ing world, which ever way you take it. One
night last week the Evening Bloodstain
told in one column of a gang of safebreakers
who had worked all nivht, cracking an empty
safe and gone home wearied at dawn with-
out the wages of sin. In the next column
was the disappointed moan of the N. S.
Wales police, who had merely got an extra,
two days’ pay for overworking themselves to
keep people honest at Prince-time.
“S.M.”: About 15,000 miles of line will
some day have to be torn up and relaid to
make Australian railways uniform. But the
struggle to sidestep the problem still goes oh.
At one conference of experts 126 devices for
letting a sft. Sin. train run on a 4ft. 81in.
or 3ft. 6in. line without being too big for
it were tried and rejected. Now the third
rail has had another trial —the 715th or so—
and on a 12-mile stretch of lonesome country
line it answered more or less. But, un-
fortunately, at the entrance to a big station
there may be 100 rails. That’s where the
idea should be first tried. Experiments out
on the quiet plains where even the cows stop
the train with impunity to pass the time of
day prove nothing.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The House of Reps, is suffering - from another out-
break of Canberritis, and diligent efforts are being
made to pin the Ministry to a promise to spend
£300,000 a year on the Capital in the Corner
until it is completed. By desperate canvassing 23
members, mostly from the Ma State, have decided
to prod the Government and keep on prodding.
The leader of the noisy minority is Austin Chap-
man, now completely obsessed with the idea of
having the capital in his own back yard. He is
determined to have it at any expense, and the
other day hinted to the Ministry that it would be
booted out of office if it didn’t oblige. Among the
Laborites Riley is Dryberra’s greatest booster: he
has already marked off the allotment for his
statue as one of the founders.
“Nom” : I have a good mind tq turn tee-
totaller. Recently I attended a publican
wedding at which there were brothers,
sisters-in-law, aunts and uncles, all of them
licensees, and though there was a magnifi-
cent array of juices, from petrol upwards,
not one of the “family” wet a whistle. Once
before I struck a similar experience at West
Maitland (N.S.W.). Three or four brothers
named Atkinson ran hotels, and not one of
them would even try to keep one down.
And a fortnight ago, when the licensed
Bungs of Sydney entertained their Aus-
tralian president, more than half the liquor
provided was carried away next morning un-
Consumed. When the Devil won’t use his
own eye-water which should we suspect,
the Devil or the ointment?
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Just-dead Tom
Slattery was removed from his office of Pro-
thonotary in the Supreme Court of N. S.
Wales under very remarkable circumstances.
He had the choice of obeying Chief Justice
James Martin and following the instructions
of the Minister for Justice, Frank Suttor,
and he preferred the former. It all arose
through the Hancock estate, which had the
ear of the law courts for some time in the
mid-’seventies. Slattery was Curator of
Intestate Estates, as well as Prothonotary,
and when Robert Hancock died the Curator,
with his agent, Tom Chapman, went to Han-
cock’s late residence in Glebe to make in-
quiries. No will was then found—one was
found later on ; two, in fact, one of them a
forgery. But the Curator found that Han-
cock had £16,000 on fixed deposit for 12
months at 5 per cent. This amount the
Curator claimed, and it remained at interest.
His agent collected his 3 per cent, commis-
sion on the amount; the other 2 per cent,
allowed by law went to the consolidated
revenue. The will was then discovered and
the row commenced. The Minister desired
Slattery to discharge the agent. Slatterv
refused, asserting, on the authority of the
Judges, that the Minister had no control over
the Supreme Court officers. The Minister
scented mutiny and suspended the Prothono-
tary-e?MJi-Curator; and as the latter showed
no disposition to cave in, dismissal followed
the suspension.
“Mirza”: With its Medical School miles
away from the various hospitals, libraries
and Pharmacy College, Melbourne Uni. is at
least 30 years behind all the Continental
varsities. The latter realise that it is essen-
tial to have the theoretical and practical
branches of medicine in the closest prox-
imity, so that the embryo doc. can go
straight from the lecture-room to the wards;
from cases of tubercle or Bright’s disease
to the Pathology Museum; and from the
operating-theatre to the dissecting-room
The library with its shelves of reference and
text-books is also adjacent. Compared with
that helpful system, Melbourne Uni. is the
quintessence of chronic ineptitude. The
student is not provided with any anatomical
dissections, and is denied access to the few
pathological specimens to be found in dusty
bottlek at the hospitals. If he wants to know
what the surgeon really cut through, or the
various changes that occur in disease, he
must tram or tramp up to the Medical
School in Carlton. There, too. he must
go for lectures, though most of his time is
spent at the hospitals. If he happens to be
pill-punching he must wander back almost
to the city after his lecture. A conserva-
tive estimate of the time wasted travelling
to and from lectures is eight hours
weekly. Continuous over a period of five
years—the academic year is three terms
of 10 weeks—that amounts to 50 days.
Despite these conditions, which would be
unreservedly condemned by any sane indi-
vidual, the Melbourne product somehow man-
ges to hold his own with the world’s best
But that is not his Uni.’s fault.


ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BDTTERLAC
is a SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of all Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
BUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM,
INSOMNIA, KIDNEY and LIVER
HEADACHES, DERANGEMENTS
and All Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults and Children.
Butterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4(6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Dane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, LTD., Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO .
Adelaide.
Tasmania: L. FAIRTHORNE & SON, Launceston.
“Are you content to go on
Stropping, day after day?”
B
V
“Stropping wastes time!”
There is no stropping—no honing—if you use the
Gillette
d
It is the one practical razor
that does not waste your* time.
In these busy days your time is worth more
than the cost of the keenest steel.Vl Buy a
Gillette ! Standard Set, id leather, case, 28/6.
Obtainable Everywhere.
GIEEETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY, Canada.
Wholesale Agents
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LXD., Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide.
1
(i
I
is.
I
M
kt
KT.
M
li
SrtS^gj
Renew, Repair,
Reclaim
Without the Dust and Dirt.
YES, without the muss and litter of a plaster
job. The clear, clean panels of Beaver Board
instantly cover up old cracked plaster and dis-
coloured wall paper. &
And Beaver Board is as quick as it is clean. It
is done in a short time and for all ti me —you’ll
never have to replace Beaver Board —it cannot crack •
It lasts as long as the building.
Beaver Board not only provides durable walls
and ceilings with a saving of time and bother,
but insures rooms of beauty and refinement. There
is no limit to the pleasing decorative effects that
may be obtained.
You can be sure of the Beaver Board result—pro-
viding you get genuine Beaver Board with the trade-
mark plainly printed on the back of every panel.
Beaver Board is stocked by Timber Merchants
and Builders’ Furnishers. See your local dealer!
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Canada London, England Buffalo* N. Y., U. S. A.
Mills and Works in Canada and U. S. A.
Australasian Representative
O. D. GORDON, G. P. O. Box 2408, Sydney, N. S. W,
BEAVER.
BOARD
You can’t expect
Beaver Board re-
sults unless this
trademark is on
the back of the
board you buy
FOR. BETTER. WALLS & CEILINGS
r -.*3
BEAVER
BOARD
R
PURE WOOD FIBRE
MADE IN
CANADA


CUTICII HEALS
PAINFUL RASH
On Chest and Shoulders. Itching
and Burning Intolerable.
“I suffered from a painfully irritat-
ing rash upon the chest and shoulders.
At night it deprived me of rest and
sleep and the skin was red and in-
flamed. The rash appeared in patches
and the itching and burning was in-
tolerable.
“Seeing the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment advertisement I wrote for
free samples which gave me much re-
lief. I then bought more Cuticura
Soap and Ointment which completely
healed me." (Signed) P. J. Wallace,
57 Lavender St., No. N.S.W.
Clear the pores of impurities by
daily use of Cuticura Soap and oc-
casional touches of Cuticura Oint-
ment as needed to soften, soothe and
heal. They are ideal for every toilet
and nursery purpose.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Soldeverywhere.
jMfr' Cuticura Soap shaves without mnr.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3J4 guineas per week.
TeL Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
gsd
600 Shaves
in One Blade
with the Only Heel &
Toe Motion Strapper.
Post Free, 30/=
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Send To-day to
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE BUILDINC, MELBOURNE
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How. to Feed
Mailed Free to
/ Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
J 1
OYCES
NewßisruitS'
)
Shakespeare says “Compari-
sons are odious”—but we
want you to get at the truth
and avoid the stupid mes-
merism of custom and habit.
Take any of our biscuits and com-
pare them for quality, flavor and
crispness with those of any other
make.
You will agree they are superior
—we know they are, and one fair
trial will convince you that they
are.
Made under strictest supervision
in our beautiful sunlit factory at
Camperdown.
Order a sample tin to-day. Your
grocer keeps them.
s ~ixly *l/cirielies
—' Centrifugal Fumm
are the simplest, most efficient, most durable
and satisfactory water lifting devices. Suited for
all classes of service—irrigation, drainage, exca-
vating, tank service, for use in breweries, sand
and gravel washing plants, etc.
Fairbanks-Morse Quality insures the utmost in
pump efficiency and reliability. Ask your dealer to-
day for details and specifications of various types.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, LTD., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, LTD., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
fairbanks.
incorporated
to
<§
MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.,
NEW YORK, U.S. A.
London,
England
Buenos Aires,
Argentina
gsd
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
fvgs
df
fy-JFlcumelette4+ <1
SAFETY COMFORT
Flannelett&r^
BtUifalCSi
vgsdgsd
Are sure tftats
PLUME
That is what careful motorists say.
They feel sure then of getting Benzine
that will ensure easy starting, sweet
running, more miles.
Plume Benzine is straight distilled,
pure, and is the cream of the crude.
Put Plume to the test in your car.
Follow the example of the men who
say, “Are you sure that’s “Plume?”
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
Write our nearest Branch
for free booklet,
“The Care of Your Car."
r 45
P 20
9
f
UN,
“Hamer”: Glass tombstones have arrived.
Still, it has always been easy to see through
most epitaphs.
“Petramos”: For brevity in advertising
few announcements have equalled this old
school advt.: —
Dear Boys,—Trouble begins Monday.—McFloggf.r,
headmaster.
At a Melbourne convention a whirling
Prohibition oratress from the West observed
that 5000 Australian children died annu-
ally from venereal disease acquired from
drunken parents. Nobody brought Ivnibbs
glong to contradict the lady. Being a polite
man he mightn’t have contradicted her, any-
how. But in his latest statistics it is set
forth that the deaths (all ages) from
syphilis in 1919 numbered 142, and from
gonorrhoea 8. In 10 years (1910-19) the
total was 1685 —syphilis 1638; gonorrhoea
47. In a manner of speaking, the whole
1685 died unnecessarily, inasmuch as V.D.
is preventable, and should be prevented, but
that is not the point. The point is that
if the hysteria of Prohibition can make its
advocates indulge in such wild perversions
of facts known and recorded, no reliance
can be placed on their equally thrilling asser-
tions (which can’t be tested) about the
results of no-license in America.
Hardly a day passes without the N.S.W.
Premier communicating a piece to the press
in the Rhoda Broughton or Mrs. Henry
Woods manner. “I am adverse myself,” he
said in a recent gem (July 30), “to taking
any measures not on sound lines and which,
when put to the test, will not benefit the
consumer without harming legitimate pri-
vate enterprise.” Even Mrs.. Woods’s bashful
heroine who afterwards married the curate
and brought up a large family, barring the
good young Henry who died of consumption,
could not put things more moderately and
less blasphemously than that. The Premier
is also of opinion that
Modern progress depends upon a constant infusion
of new ideas.
It does to a degree ; still if the Government
lived up to some of the old ideas —as old
as Plato and Confucius and the Bible
(“owe no man anything,” for instance—
things wouldn’t be so bad.
“Canuck” on land booms, past and
present:—
Melbourne Age has discovered another land boom.
Other people discovered it long ago. It isn’t quite
as insane a boom as that of the Gillies days, but
it promises well. When the last generation did its
burst it cheerfully pegged out suburban blocks
away out at East Doncaster, at Mount Waverley and
other localities, which, 30 years later, are still five
miles from rail or tram and likely to stay so. Many
of these “desirable suburban allotments” have re-
verted to' market gardens or orchards ; others remain
waste land, and distant “neighbors” periodically cut
up the saplings for firewood. About the choicest
sample of that bygone insanity .is Wallan, on the
Sydney-road. Wallan station is a long mile away
from Wallan township, across a flat which is mostly
flooded in winter, and when I crossed it in ’94 it
was still studded with the symmetrical white pegs
that denote the land speculator. This time he
hasn’t gone so far afield, but he has gone deeper,
as it were. Get away a mile or two beyond any
of the suburban tram termini, descend to the handi-
est low-lying ground, and you will assuredly find
pegs and a gaudy notice-board: “Billkem and
Rookem, Collins-street. No deposit. £1 per month.”
These agents have sub-agents travelling the country
with plans and a gift of fluent speech. The plans
show the nearest —er —public utility, whether school,
church or store; distance from tram or rail and —
in large letters —the line of the proposed tram or
railway; but they never show the altitude of the
area. It is an affluent industry. The buyer pays his
£1 for a few months, and the municipal rates, and
then about Show-time or Cup-time he drops along
and inspects his “investment,” if he can find it.
After that he ceases to throw good money after
bad —and the agent gets another block to unload
on to a fresh victim. Speculators are paying from
£lOO to £2OO an acre for “desirable suburban
areas,” worth about one-third as much for cultiva-
tion purposes. I reckon to be able to buy them for
one-fifth in five years’ time.
“T. 0.1.”: In Sydney in the ’fifties, if you
called for “a stone fence” you meant a
ginger-beer and brandy; “a spider” was a
lemonade and brandy; “a sensation” was
a small sherry; “a constitutional” a glass
of gin and bitters ; “a cocktail” was brandy,
bitters and sugar; “a splash,” ice, brandy
and water; “a julep,” brandy, sugar and
peppermint; “a maiden,” peppermint and
cloves; “a Catherine Hayes,” claret, sugar
and orange; “a Madame Bishop,” port,
sugar and nutmeg; “a Lola Montez,” Old
Tom, ginger, lemon and hot water; “a Band
of Hope,” lemon syrup. Bread and cheese
was “a roll and rind” ; salad was “Nebuchad-
nezzar.” Later on a long Australian beer
was dubbed “a Bishop Barker.” It was
Barney Thompson, whilom Melbourne and
London bookmaker, who brought the Man-
hattan into use in Sydney; but that was not
till many years afterwards.
“G. Arden Hill”: There has been an
increase of “miners’ eye” among N. S. Wales
South Coast coalminers recently. It is
attributed to the meagre illumination
(4 candle-power) of the safety-lamps now
in general use. The symptoms are a danc-
ing of red before the eyes and distressing
pain in the eyesockets, and the only remedy
is to get out of the pits. The disease is
recognised as an injury under the Work-
men’s Compensation Act, and many men are
now receiving compensation. Permanent
injury to eyesight is not unknown, but is
uncommon. In many cases the sufferer,
after a couple of months outside, drifts
back underground and pegs away until a
recurrence of the complaint compels him to
get out again. The position calls for an
improvement on the present pattern of
safety-lamp. Some years ago an English
colliery-manager offered £lOOO for the best
designs for a portable electric safety-lamp.
The winner of the first prize of £6OO was
the inventor of a lamp called the C.E.A.G.
This lamp gives a light of 14 candle-power,
will burn for 10 hours, weighs 541 b., and
in pre-war days cost 255., and can be easily
charged in any electric motor-house. The
chief drawback is that it will not locate
fire-damp, but for all that it is extensively
used in the coal-mines of Great Britain.
Apparently the lamp has not been introduced
in N. S. Wales because of the cost which the
change would involve.


Grand Prix Franco-British,
Exhibition 1908
Grand Prix Franco-British,
Exhibition 1908
s
*•
Mi
«#llk
wm
m
art
1
:
mi
©I
m
m
©
iw
©
m
1
(o'?
fcei
J
0
O m 1 hh £•
J-u I i (.15
Srudio's.
m
lllfe
The c Value of rr (joodwiir’
"Goodwill” is the opinionbf the public.
It represents the attitude of the customer
toward the product. To gain goodwill is
the aim of every business, for it is the
one big thing that counts.
This organisation has always endeavour-
ed not merely to gain goodwill, but to de-
serve it. In making the Beale Piano an
unusual amount of care is exercised.
Everything is done in the best way. The
best materials are used. In consequence,
we have reached a stage in our career
where we care more for the good name
of Beale than the profit it may bring.
The better musician you are, the more you
r will appreciate the Teale
Showrooms :
333 George St.
Sydney
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
Factories :
47 Trafalgar
Annandale
BRANCHES:
N.S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulbum,Wagga. Victoria : Maples
in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston.
S.A.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
The number of employees of the firm
totals nearly 500. The firm was founded
and established in 1879 by Mr. O. C.
Beale, the present governing director.
The factories comprise ten buildings,with
a combined floor area of 129,796 sq. ft.
Provision has been made for expansion by
the purchase of land adjoining the fac-
tory grounds.


A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, loct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Knife-edga
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Diamord
Cluster Necklet,
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Circle
Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
three-stone Diamond
Bing-, 18ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double cut
Diamond Trefoil
Ring, 18ct. Gold.
£l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
single double-cut
Dian«ond Ring,
ISct. Gold £2O.
'
»V,V**W>v
>4 .
/
i HI I
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Hunting Keyless
Waltham Lever, full jewelled, compensa-
tion balance movement, £l2/10/-
Extra jewelled, £l5, £l7/10/-, £2O.
IBct. Gold, £25, £3O, £4O, £5O.
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £75.
Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-out Diamond
Circle Brooch,
loot. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-over
Rin£, 18et. Gold,
£B/15/-
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Single-stone
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Cluster Three-bar Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, loct.
Gold, £5.
A.
Saunders’ double-cut Diamond and Pearl
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. rSaunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wrisfrt
Wafo'eh, lull jewelled, lever movement, compensation balance,
£lO. Others, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-.
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £l2/10/-. Guaranteed.
SEND FOR LATEST ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
WE POST ALL ORDERS FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, double-cut Diamond, Patent
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled lever movement,
compensation, balance, £2O. Guaranteed.
-a*'*
a.
s
QL
Z
is.
&
/
Be a Better Cook!
If you are still cooking in the old fashioned
way give it up !—be a Better Cook from to-
day onwards. Cook better scones and better
cakes, tastier trifles and more delicious
blanc-manges. It’s so simple!
Instead of using dairy milk, cook with
Nestle’s Milk ; you will be delightfully sur-
prised at the results and so will Hubby and
the children.
The “ Milky Way ” Book Teaches You Free !
Write to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street, Sydney, for
Free Copy of Valuable Book containing over 100
recipes for Better Cooking with
NESTLE’S
- r,7?/»-> - • -i
Condensed
MILK
(Made in Australia)
a
condensed
IMIL.K !
m
aw
7 L>ML i
he St brand
IN AUSTRAI-* A
SWISS CONDENSg
;^I'i,^UBOURN C . gsjl
Nfv


-J a
n - ?: J
' J
ABBEY
SHOES
Individual taste is evidenced in Abbey
Shoes. They give the utmost comfort to
the wearer, besides possessing distinctive
style.
The boot illustrated is a high-grade
Patent Oxford Bal., Dull Calf Legs.
Price 65/-
All Patent 67/6
Tan 607-
in half-sizes, Narrow, Medium and Wid«
Fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
•J* IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
In the Musical Success of the Century,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
"yiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Prices as usual.
U K K M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. S Y I> N E V.
* 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
11V the J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
Clt I T E R 1 O N T II EA T It E. SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
Til EAT R E ROY A L, SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
COMMENCING AUGUST 14.
AUSTRALIAN PLAYS, LTD., present
THE BOSS COCKIE,
By Randolph Bedford.
“A winner from sliprails to homestead.”
ALBERT MYERS, Business Manager.
PALACE THE A T RE, SYDN E Y.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
A Comedy Drama of Laughter and Tears.
Plans at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
yNI O N PICTURE THEAT It E S
THE PTCK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
’ Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
THE MIKADO.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE LATEST LONDON MUSICAL SUCCESS,
YES, UNCLE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
’gItITANN l A '"H EAT It ID, MIS 1,110 URN IS.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
KING'S Til EAT KIS. MKLItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY A- CHANT
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 14.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
in
THE ROTTERS.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” now Touring
South Island of New Zealand.
Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
Town hall, Melbourne.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 14.
JOHN McCORMACK,
the greatest lyric tenor the world has produced.
2nd CONCERT—TUESDAY, 17th AUGUST.
3rd CONCERT—THURSDAY, 19th AUGUST.
4th CONCERT—SATURDAY, 21st AUGUST.
sth CONCERT—TUESDAY, 24th AUGUST.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge 1 ).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
ERIC STROHEIM in
BLTND HUSBANDS.
and ,
FRANK MAYO iu
LASCA.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
A TEMPERAMENTAL WIFE.
Matindes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
the '
GLACIA R I U M ,
MELBOURNE,
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|Y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGJIAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNIOK.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia,
§J
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Tw Lone Hand
A magazine of originality and
good Australianism.
The Lone Hand
breathes the Australian sentiment in its
stories, verse and paragraphs, in its literary
pages and pictures.
It takes its readers on to the gold-fields,
the racecourse, through bush tracks and city
streets, to all places where the warm sun
shined and the wattle blooms.
The August Issue of
"THE LONE HAND”
carries a message from the Minister for Edu-
cation (N.S.W.) to the school-children,
commending to them “The Lone Hand”
scheme of prizes for encouraging young
writers.
The Lone Hand
at all Newsagents. Price 9d.
Subscription. 9/- per year, post free,
direct from “The Lone Hand,” Sydney.
Jlidmrii Sunt
r-
A
s-
m
Vice-regal Shirt-makers,
314 George St.,
Sydney
Spring and Summer
Shirting and Pyjama
Materials in Silks,
Zephyrs and
Taffetas.
The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia,
PROSPECTUS
OF
The Second Peace Loan
Issued under Authority of the War Loan Act 1918 and the War Loan Act 1920.
Amount asked for, £25,000,000.
Interest: 6 per cent.
Price of Issue: Par.
Loan to be repaid in 1930.
Applications will be received between Friday, 6th August, and Monday,
6th September, 1920.
1. The Loan will be used for the payment of War obligations and for Repatriation purposes only.
2 Applications for the Loan, also the Deposits and Instalments of the Loan, may be lodged—
At any Bank or State Savings Bank; or
At any Money Order Post Office; or
With any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
3. Instalments will be payable as follows: —
10 per cent, deposit to be lodged with application.
20 per cent, on Monday, 4th October, 1920.
20 per cent, on Monday, Ist November, 1020.
25 per cent, on Monday, 6th December, 1920.
25 per cent, on Wednesday, sth January, 1921.
4. All or any of the Instalments may be prepaid.
5. The Banks will not charge exchange on cheques sent from one place to any other place in
Australia for payment into the Second Peace Loan.
6. Receipts will be issued by Banks, State Savings Banks and Post Offices for all Deposits and
Instalments received.
7. When the amount applied for by any applicant has been paid up in full, Bonds to bearer,
with interest coupons attached, will be issued (as soon as they can be prepared), or Stock will be
inscribed. The applicant should indicate in his application whether he requires Bonds or Stock.
S The Stock will be inscribed in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed
Stock Act 1911-18, and Inscription Books will be kept at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
9 The Bonds will be issued for 4110, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO. Stock will be inscribed
for £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
10 Holders of Stock will have the right to convert into Bonds, and holders of Bonds will have
the right to convert into Stock, at any time on application in writing to the Commonwealth Treasury,
Melbourne, or any Branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
11 The Issue is an investment authorised by the Trustees Acts of the several States, and Trustees
may invest therein notwithstanding that the price may at the time of investment be above or below the
redemption value of par.
’ 19 (a) If the Deposit and all Instalments are paid up in full on or before 6th September, 1920,
Interest amounting to £2 on each £lOO will be paid by the Commonwealth on 15th December, 1920.
(b) Where all the Instalments are not paid up in full on or before 6th September, 1920, but are
paid on or before their due dates, Interest amounting to £4 on each £lOO will be paid by the Com-
monwealth on 15th June, 1921.
(V) Thereafter the Commonwealth will pay Interest half-yearly on 15th June and 15th December
at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
r? Interest on Inscribed Stock will be paid by Interest Warrant, which will be forwarded by post,
or the amount will be credited direct to a banking account, at option of subscribers.
qq. Interest on Bonds will be paid on production of Coupon.
Both Warrants and Coupons will be payable free of exchange at any Bank or State Savings
Bank in the Commonwealth.
16 The Loan will be repaid at par at the Offices of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart, on 15th December, 1930.
17. Bonds and Transfers of Stock will be free of Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty.
18. Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Taxation, but will be free of State Income Tax.
19. Bonds and Stock will be accepted at par in payment of Probate and Succession Duty due to
the Commonwealth.
20. Both the principal of and the interest on this Loan will be a charge upon the Consolidated
Revenue Fund of the Commonwealth.
91 Members of recognised Stock Exchanges will be allowed a Commission of ss. per £lOO on
applications which are registered bv them with the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and which bear
their stamp. Authorised agents will also be allowed a commission of ss. per £lOO on applications
which bear their dockets in the manner prescribed.
92 Commission will not be paid, both to a Stock Broker and to an Authorised Agent. AVhen an
application .beai-s the docket of an Authorised Agent, no claim for commission by a Stock Broker will
be allowed in respect of such application.
CONVERSION PRIVILEGES.
93 Every person who makes application for Bonds or Stock of the Second Peace Loan has the right,
up to the amount of such application, to convert Bonds or Stock of any previous War Loan or the
Peace Loan into Bonds or Stock of the Second Peace Loan at par. Conversion will be contingent on the
application for Bonds or Stock of the Second Peace Loan being duly completed by payment in cash, on
or before due dates, of the Deposit and all Instalments.
24. Conversion will be effected as on 15th December, 1920, at face value without charge.
95 Persons who so convert Bonds or Stock maturing in 1925 or 1927 will receive the usual half-
yearly interest payment on the old Bonds or Stock on the 15th December, 1920. Persons who so convert
Bonds or Stock maturing in 1923 will receive three months’ interest on the old Bonds or Stock on the
15th December. 1920, namely, £1 ss. on each £lOO. Thereafter interest on all Bonds or Stock con-
verted into Bonds or Stock of the Second Peace Loan will be paid half-yearly on 15th June and 15th
December at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
26. Applications for conversion must be made on the prescribed form not later than Ist December,
1920.
•27 War Savings Certificates will be accepted in payment of the deposit and instalments of the
Second Peace Loan up to a maximum of half of the amount applied for. For this purpose the three
vears’ Certificates will be accepted at the purchase price together with simple interest at \\ per. cent,
per annum from the date of each Certificate to the due date of the deposit or instalment, as the case
mav be. Five years or ten years Certificates will be accepted at the purchase price together with
simple interest at 5 per cent, per annum from the date of each Certificate to the due date of the deposit
or instalment, as the case may be. War Savings C rtificates will be converted on these terms only by
Branches of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
28. No commission will be payable to Stock Brokers or other Authorised Agents in respect of con-
version applications.
Commonwealth Treasury, JOSEPH COOK,
7th July, 1920. Treasurer.


r
&
BOORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Anstralasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence
St., Sydney.
The Shoe Polish Super-Excellent.
Bostoek’.s Shoe Polish is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a
brilliant and lasting polish, it FRESEKVES the leather.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VEOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
Ceylonette
SLUMBER
SUITS at
15/6
Ceylonette Pyjamas for all-year-round wear
Nice and soft and fine fitting; unshrinkable
and genuine wearers ; well made and nicely
finished, and fitted with new Bradford Collar
and one Pocket. Sizes 34 to 44 inch chest.
For Fifteen and Six the Suit, this is trulv
remarkable value. Send for Yours !|
The appeal of the Patterns is so unique
and so sincere that they never fail to score
PIKE BROTHERS
Toowoomba
limited
BRISBANE
T nwnsville
Carriage Paid
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Kissing Time”
Criterion *'lrGii6”
OYAI, “The Boss Cockie”
Palace “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
Tivoli “His Little Widows”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Mikado”
Royal “Yes, Uncle”
King's “Three Wise Fools”
Princess’s “The Rotters”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt’s 1)e Luxe & Lyceum ...... Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciahium Dancing
Town Hall John McCormack
“Irene,” the new musical comedy at Syd-
ney Criterion, has a better right to succeed
than most shows of its class. It has a plot;
the music is attractive and so is the scenery ;
the lyrics are Gilbertian in their neatness;
and there is little of that buffoonery which
makes most of these entertainments so tire-
some. The humor is more a matter of quiet
phrase than of face- and body-contortion;
arid there is quite a lot of it. The Bul-
letin attended on Monday night, when “the
ladies and gentlemen of the ensemble,” to
use the programme’s dreadful phrase, had
come back on the management’s terms, after
downing grease-paint 48 hours previously
for raised salaries. But a spirit of unrest
hung over the front of the house. The gal-
lery was half-empty and gloomily irrespon-
sive to the efforts of the artists. In normal
circumstances things ought to have gone
with a bang from start to finish.
The show suffers from one feature which
is becoming chronic in Australia. The
principals are from the U.S.A.; and the
men wear the rococo costumes of their
native land —only more so. The stage gar-
ments of the American juvenile, with their
purposeless slashes, their artfully up-ended
pockets, their Kate Greenaway waists and
their half-mast sleeves and trousers, convey
the impression that they have been designed
by a lady with Futurist leanings during a
cloth-famine. The clothes of the Criterion
chorus-gentlemen look like Bowery models.
It is a cruel thing to require men, presum-
ably of the breed of those who fell on Anzac.
to work in public so attired. How restful
to the eye a musical/ comedy would be in
which the men were dressed like, say, Clyde
Meynell—dressed ; not laboriously disfigured !
Irene O’Dare is a shop-assistant who ap-
pears at Donald Marshall’s Long Island
home, and is immediately kissed by one of
his licentious friends. Donald hounds the
profligate off, and when the grateful dear
describes the hard lot of an honest working-
girl the inevitable happens. Dorothy South
(Irene) is full of charm and personality,
and the owner of a melodious soprano.
Robert Jewett, as Donald, has to do a lot
of standing around while the lady talks and
sings, and he performs this difficult feat
remarkably well. Like most Americans, he
never gets bothered about his hands—not
even when they protrude half a foot beyond
his cuffs. He is a pleasant-faced youth
with a nice baritone. The comedian is
Chester Clute, who plays Madame Lucy, n
dress-designer from London. His business
is to disguise Irene and her two friends as
society girls, which he does to such purpose
that they pass muster in the exclusive set
to which Donald belongs. Except that he
employs an accent which no Londoner ever
had, he provides a more or less convincing
character-sketch ; and his dancing is most
finished. Maggie Weston is excellent as the
scandalised Hibernian mother of the errant
heroine, and there are half a dozen well-
played minor parts.
* * * *
Concerning the Sydney Royal Art
Society s show
The most important and pleasing panel in the
exhibition is James R. Jackson's. Jackson has
advanced. He was in danger of becoming stereo-
typed in h;s subjects; this year he has tackled some-
thing different, and has succeeded. No. 8, "Even-
ing,” and No. 10, “Morning, Harbor,” are the best
examples of his work ; the last-named has deservedly
been purchased by the National Gallery. No. 17,
“The Bather,” and No. 12, “Paddling,” are Jack-
sonian subjects, but they are carried further than
his earlier work ; they show more subtlety, a greater
knowledge of handling and a deeper understanding
of light. No. 7, “Grey Hills,” and No. 15, “Narra-
been Lakes,” are quiet grey landscapes, sympatheti-
cally painted and reserved in quality. His harbor
pieces are pleasing, but not notable. No. 14,
“Spring,” his largest canvas, is a composition of
three nudes in sunlight The painting of the flesh
is not correctly observed—'his figures look too
smooth, and the whole thing needs more careful
study and greater effort. The same applies to No.
17, “The Bather.”
Next in merit comes Margaret Preston’s still life.
These paintings are freshly handled, clean and vigor-
ous, though a trifle careless and a little lacking in
subtlety; but they are so different from the musty,
deadening commonplaces on the walls that one
quickly forgives the faults. She at least is quite
clear in her expression, and does not falter. No.
2, “Nasturtiums,” and No. 97, “Summer,” were
purchased by the. Gallery—another wise choice.
The president, W. Lister-Lister, shows a large
canvas —No. 21, “The Two Bridges, Blue Mountains,
Emu Plains in Distance.” The best part of the
picture is Emu Plains in distance; these plains really
do recede, which cannot always be said of distances.
The trouble with the picture is that it has two
color schemes. The warm, coppery glow on the
bridges and the foreground does not appear to be
part of the distance, which is cool and grey. The
artist may have been quite faithful in recording
this, but sometimes in art it is necessary to be
false to be true. Lister-Lister is a materialist. He
has no inner-vision to reveal. He make 6 too
much of a “job ’ of his painting. He paints right
to the bitter end. There is no suggestion. Never-
theless No. 23, “The Nepean from Qlenbrook Creek,”
has qualities which are almost completely satisfy -
has qualities which are almost completely satisfying.
Dattilo-Rubbo shows a queer Variety of work.
His best oil is No. 28, “Study in Sunlight.” It
is a simple study of an old man with a purple waist-
coat ; the purple waistcoat would be better if it
was less purple and more waistepat. This outbreak
into modernism is curious. Rubbo plunges into it
with this and one or two others—as if he was trying
to emerge from the dull materialism of “Reverie”
and “An Octogenarian,” with a faint hope of finding
a way out from his vision of sordid things. “An
Octogenarian” is a faithful portrait of a Domain
model—so faithful that one feels that visitors will
be stung for a bob. Generally, the old people
painted by Rubbo look so damnably uninteresting.
Of J. S. Watkin’s exhibits, No. 37, “To the
Laughing God,” is the most ambitious. It has con-
siderable skill in execution, but lacks refinement.
The drapery on the kneeling figure surely could have
been more graceful and less violent in color. The
still-life is carefully painted and the decorative
foliage has value; but, somehow, the composition is
not satisfying. Three smaller paintings, “The
Kimono,” “Vanity” and “Occident and Orient,” have
qualities in painting, but they are not carried far,
and again they lack refinement. His best works
shown are his crayon studies, two or three of them
excellent. The Gallery showed discrimination by
purchasing two.
A. Marriott Woodhouse’s least offensive is No. 60,
“The Black Cape,” but this is smooth and unpleasantly
treacle-like in treatment, a collection of messy, over-
worked paint, badly handled. Jo Wolinski cer-
tainly has a curious collection of paintings
here—very curious. Some are smooth, some are
rough, some queer, others dry and thin, some nasty,
some horrible! And yet the same Jo can paint No.
62, the aptly-named “Ease Amidst Toil.” This really
has quality. The tone is good, it is unaffected,
simple and sincere; it is nice in color and well
drawn.
D. S. Cohen has smeared a canvas, No. 87, “An
Aged Hebrew.” William Oates is no more successful.
G. Crbssington Smith has a quite good study of a
head in the modern method and a quaint conception
of “The Prince in Martin-place.” Most of the
figures look well and truly squashed—and the build-
ings, too, for that matter. Chas. E. Tindall’s water-
colors are not up to last year’s standard. No. 134,
“Surveyor’s Camp,”, is the best. No. 137, “Sydney
Welcomes the Prince,” is a dexterously-handled com-
position. His landscapes are a trifle hard and lack
feeling. Jas. A. Crisp has specialised in kooka-'
“Irene,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Dorothy South as
Irene.
burras. The Gallery
purchased No. 125,
“Two’s Company,”
which is not high art,
but will be popular.
Mary M. Edwards’s
best work is “Portrait
in Winter,” which is
strong and well drawn.
Her technique is a
little uncertain, but in
this and No. 192, “A
Summer Day,” one
cannot complain of
this tendency. Nor-
man Campbell’s water-
colors are not up to
the work he has pre-
viously shown in Syd-
ney. No. 174, “A Wet
Day, Melbourne,” is
easily the best. His
work is inclined to be
thin and false in color
values. W. Tristram
shows four water-
eolors, which are in-
dividual in quality,
but they do not mark
any advance. A. ,1.
Daplyn is back again
in the fold. His sub-
jects and his methods
seem to belong to
another age. No. 211,
Ihe Old Town, Hastings,” is by far the
most modern, and also the most interesting In
No 63 -A Mountain Quarry,” G. Barnes has
attempted to describe a complete circle with a cliff
and a tree. He has partially succeeded. He also shows
some water-colors which are too Heysen-like in sub-
ject and composition to leave one comfortable David
G Reid shows a number of oils and water-colors,
they all suffer by being commonplace. Of the oils
No. 45, “A March of Waters,” is easily the best
It is a good composition, and if the sky was more
atmospheric it would be better. He has not got
beyond paint” yet. Other artists who should be
mentioned are Norman Allen, whose “November
Evening, Hullencourt,” is worth while; R A Kil
minster’s study of Fowls, and John Banks’s oils
In the black-and-white section Eirene Mort’s etch-
ings are worth while. She has the genuine feeling
for the medium, and uses the needle sympathetically.
Trindall’s studies are good, particularly Nos. 228 and
229 ; and D. S. Cohen’s No. 249, “Light and Shade,’’
is an excellent drawing. Miss Preston’s prints are
good, honest Bolshevism, and are full of character.
But a number of the exhibits in this section would
shame a country show. They are entirely unrepresen-
tative of current black and white in this city; a
higher—much higher—standard should be set in
future by the committee.
In miniatures Miss Gladys Laycock’s are full of
charm, Nos. 266 and 267 being the best.
One of the strongest features of a rather weak
show is M. P. Holden’s sculpture. All three examples
are excellent. Her modelling is sound, and “Point to
Point Baees” and “Study of Greyhound’’ are admir-
able.
Saturday sees the spoken play return to
Sydney Royal, and the “Boss Cockie” begins
its southern run. Randolph Bedford’s comedy
of bush and city types has had the last dull
five seconds taken out of it, and now, accord-
ing to Brisbane report, the gay thing works
like a watch.
** # *
The crowds that are pouring in to see “On
Our Selection” at Sydney Crystal Palace and
Lyric must make the purveyor of American
films rather open his eyes to the possibilities of
the real Australian story pictured by dinkum
Aussies. Producer Longford insisted that
the little homestead should be built in the
open instead of in a studio, so Dad and Mum
and Kate and Dave used to take the tram
to Baulkham Hills to live over again the
story of how hard work made the selection
bloom Here are laughter and tears and
hardships and courage; and each member
of the family lives. They are all excellent
types; but Tal Ordell’s Dave deserves a
special word.
* * *
“Kissing Time” continues to bill and coo
at Sydney Majesty’s.
. * $ * $
Sydney gardeners who are interested in
weeds are recommended to try the Tivoli.
There “His Little Widows” grow wild, sur-
rounded by a of Mormons.
** * *
“Tilly of Bloomsnury,” late of the Cri-
tenon, has quite settled down at the Palace,
where she is at home to Sydney six nights
per week. Even plays have to use furniture-
vans these times.
** # *
l’ rau( ! is still being practised by
The Great McEwen at the Playhouse. So
tar no Sydney roof-hunter has challenged the
wizard to conjure an unfurnished flat at
a reasonable rental.
$# # $
4 ** i#ix years since Melbourne last heard
The Mikado,” and the intervening war
hasnt erased popular memories of Charles
Malenn, who reappeared in the revival at
Her Majesty’s on Saturday. Walenn re-
turns to the old part of Ko-Ko with the same
pawky effusiveness that exalted the ass in the
official assassin. Albert lvavanagh, who re-
sumes the part of Pooh Bah, makes a gallant
struggle, but the spirit is wanting in his act-
ing and his thin, stertorous voice. James
Hay, a newcomer, is cast for Nanki Poo.
His light tenor is serviceable enough in the
various tunes that fall to his lot, but on
the histrionic side he is the shadow and not
the substance of the character. John Ral-
ston’s baritone answers all the reasonable re-
quirements of Pish Tush. Yilliers Arnold’s
Mikado is a compact collection of little ex-
cellences which are only fully realised in the
subsequent survey of his work. His comedy
when “making the punishment fit the crime”
is in delightful accord' with his make-up.
Eileen Castles, as Yum Yum, is not all that
the name conveys. Her voice is easy and
graceful, but her sweetness is without much
color. Thelma Carter (Pitti Sing) is not
so non-committal, and her voice has more
quality. Patti Russell plays Peep 80, and
the good looks of Ethel Morrison disappear in
the countenance of Katisha. The mixed
chorus is always pretty good, but Slapoffski’s
band loitered a trifle on Saturday. “The
Mikado” is announced for 12 nights, and will
be followed by “The Yeomen of the Guard.”
* * *
“The Eyes of Youth” reaches the end of
its three-weeks’ run at Melbourne King’s to-
morrow night. On Saturday the Firm moves
in with John D. O’Hara and “Three Wise
Fools.”
“Yes, Uncle,” is still raging at Melbourne
Royal; and it is nine weeks since the out-
break started. The management is naturally
in despair, and may soon be compelled to
start George Willoughby singing to try to
give the treasurer a rest. The public will,
however, receive due warning if this drastic
course is decided on.
* * * *
Daisy Kennedy fiddles her last to-night
after a big season at Melbourne Town Hall.
On Saturday John McCormack produces the
Voice which is said to have grown more
spacious and heavenly since it settled down
in America.
"The Rotters” at Melbourne Princess's
continues to afford proof of the suspicion
that women love a chauffeur named Charles.
According to “Bran Pie” at Melbourne
Tivoli. America still refuses to draw the
color-line in its songs and melodies. Tunes
°f .Digger origin are frequent, and are riot-
ously combined with the darkie’s banjo and
other instruments by Bailey, Cowan and
Davis, a much-advertised trio who arrived
on Saturday. Davis, whose other name is
Estelle, is the undemonstrative side-line in
an act wherein Bailey’s'banjo is better than
the cheap and fussy work of partner Cowan.
The Bulletin finds it hard to diagnose
Cowan. The near- >
est approach to his
entertain-
ment would pro-
bably be a Ford
car set to music.
Clay Smith and
Lee White also
provide a n affect-
ing revelation of
the mishaps that
have befallen the
English language
since it crossed the
Atlantic. Their
obtrusive Ameri-
canism is hardly
mitigated by a
quiet plat-
form man-
ner in
their songs-
at-the-piano. Also
they can’t refrain
from advertising
their indebtedness
to the Sambo
school of liar-
“Bran Pie,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Victor Gouriet an one
of the Ugly Sisters.
mony. It’s a pleasure to turn to Vic-
tor Gouriet, who, after an absence of 12
years, shines for brief periods in various
scenes. Clarice Hardwicke has a moment
of real humor as a crumpled domestic
trying to escape from a fly-paper.
•* * *
The man who has been reared on Nat
Gould gets a taste of his favorite literature
at Melbourne Majestic this week. Anita
Stewart, salvaging the Good Thing from
the burnt racing stable, understudies the
drugged jock and brings headlong bankruptcy
to Ikey Mo. Anita also does a flying leap
over a chasm and dices further with the
undertaker before she reaches the end of the
journey. The film is entitled “In Old Ken-
tucky,” and the scenery is packed with the
mountains where the feuds come from. At
the Melba Eugene O’Brien in “His Wife’s
Money” is facing the problem of the dis-
contented missus with the depressed income
and a lot of villainous country to brood in.
A similar subject is handled in Hoyt’s
“Blind Husbands,” in which Eric Stroheim
is best man. But the thrill of Hoyt’s pro-
gramme is the reliable Tom Mix in “A Rough
Riding Romance.”
** * *
Herbert Fryer played Chopin to a rapt
audience at Melbourne Athenaeum last Fri-
day. This paper preferred the Mazurka
in C Sharp Minor, the Impromptu in G Flat
and the Sonata in B Minor, the final move-
ment of which suggested that the pianist
wanted to catch a last train. But there
were other good things, all turned out with
the deft touch of a specialist.
*V * *
A Melbourne art-show :—-
Daryl Lindsay’s second exhibition at the Decora-
tion Gallery reveals that he has leapt into the
front rank of Australian water-colorists. Certainly
he has not quite outgrown his fancy for absinthe
greens and showy brilliancies of light and shade,
but he has acquired a finer vision without losing
the happy, boyish spirit of his earlier achievement.
His “Autumn Evening, Ascot,” is evidence of his
development. The spaciousness and quality of this
simple scene, with the sun almost flaunting over
the middle distance, while the day dies gradually
before and behind, are worth warm praise. There
is some of the same spontaneity and largeness of
aspect in “Midsummer Days,” wherein the heat
seems to rise from a baking world. The immensity
and variety of Australian skies are beginning to
impress themselves on the artist, and he shows some
effective handling of clouds in .the “Ascot Evening”
aforesaid, “Lucerne Farm, Alphington” and “The
Boundary Rider’s Hut.” Included in the collec-
tion are sundry reminiscences of Lindsay’s career
as a war-artist in France and Belgium.
** * *
The passing on of Lee White from Adel-
aide Tivoli—a chastened and artistic per-
former compared with the London memo-
ries one has of her—has left that house
empty for the moment, and Adelaide is
short of shows; but the Bing Boys are just
coming into the Royal. Concerts of the
best have, filled the interval: Clara Serena’s
great voice, Prof. Harold Davies’s new
orchestra,. Conservatorium, Orpheus, till in
the surfeit even Moiseiwitsch on a return
visit does not pack the house. Douglas
Mawson has completed his brilliant lectures
on the South Pole. His voice is not ideal,
but he has the story to tell.


I
-
5*
e
GOLF REQUISITES.
Whether you require Clubs, Cleeks, Mashies or Mid-irons, you’ll find
a complete range in Murdoch’s Sports Department. Models of the
best sticks as used by famous players abroad.
Furthermore, by importing direct from British manufacturers,
Murdoch’s can offer you an advantageous saving in price. Here’s a
list of our latest importations.
Golf Sticks,
Win ton’s Irons, hand forged, reli-
able balance. Price, 16/9 each.
Winton’s Drivers, 18/6 each.
Winton’s Brassies, 19/6 each.
Spalding’s Irons —they have a
“.sweetness” of “feel” that every
golfer will appreciate. Price,
19/0 each.
Spalding’s Drivers and Brassies,
19/6 each.
Golf Balls.
What ball is suitable to m,y
game?
Murdoch’s will answer your
query, and submit a wide range
of golf balls, suitable in size or
weight. Note the low prices.
Spalding’s Golf Balls- —
Black and White, 3/9 each.
Corker, 50, 4/3 each.
Challenger Golf Balls —XL, 3/9
each; “Bramble,” 3/9 each.
Silver King Golf Balls —Red,
Yellow or Green Dot, 4/- each.
Zodiac Zome Golf Balls, 4/3 ea.
Caddy Bags, etc.
Caddy Bags, strong material, with
leather trimmings, 14/6, 23/6,
24/6, 29/6.
“Kaddy” Polish, the best for
cleaning irons. 9d. per cake.
Clock Golf, 26/6, 36/6 set.
MURDOCH’S HAIRDRESSING SALOON
is equipped with the newest approved methods for sterilising. Comfort
and Quick Service assured. Six Chairs. Lower Prices:
HAIR-CUT, 1/-; SHAVE and BRUSH-UP, (id.; SHAMPOO, 1/-
MURDOCH’S
in Park
St. Ltd.
SYDNEY
The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store .
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
4(0
EACH
Fcaiumbia^
Records jQ
FROM
4J6
EACH.
Some Splendid “COLUMBIA” RECORDS
From Supplement No. (i.
12-inch Single-sided 8/6 each.
7328—Romance from Concerto No. 2 (Wieniawski, Opp. 22)... Toscha Seidel, violin
7226—Bird of Rove Divine (Circh & Wood) Madame Elsa Stralia, with Orchestra
7225
( Manon Lescaut. “Donna non vidi mai” (Puccini)- —In Italian, with London
( Symphony Orchestra Tom Burke, tenor
7227
S Forza del
l (Verdi).
Destino: “La vergine degli angeli” (May Angels Guard Thee)
In Italian with Chorus and Orchestra .... Rosa Ponselle, soprano
7101
! II Trovatore:
l
‘‘II balen del
suo sorrißo
(Tempest of the Heart). (Verdi).
Riccarcto Strncciari,
10-inch Single-sided, 6/-
t'i33
j Un Ratio in MaflChera: “Alle vita che t'arride” (The Life Thou Dost Cherish).
I (Verdi) Riccardo Straceiari, baritone
12-inch Double-sided, 8/6 each.
1,1341
Pictures from an Exhibition (Moussourgsky-Wood)-
Parti: (a) Promenade, (b) Gnomes.
Part 2: The Ox Wagon (Bydlo) Sir Henry J. Wood & bis Orchestra
L 1345
j To a Water-lily at Evening: (Bourdillon & Bedford).... Hubert Eisdell, tenor
(As a Star (Clemons & Parker) * Hubert Eisdell, tenor
1U844
j Where’er You Walk, from “Semele” (Handel) .. .
( Deeper and Deeper Still, from “.Jeptlia” (Handel)
Frank Mailings, tenor
Frank Mullings, tenor
1,1346
S Lighterman Tom <F. Barron & W. H. Squire) Thorpe Bates, baritone
t The Company Sergeant-Major (Lyon & Sander son) . . Thorpe Bates, baritone
1,1347
j Marche Grotesque (S hiding, Op. 32, No. 1) William Murdoch, pianoforte
t The Golliwogs* Cake Walk (Debussy) William Murdoch, pianoforte
1/1343
1 Mendelssohn Trio (Op. 66) Sammons, Squire & Murdoch
l (1) Andante Expressive. (2) Scherzo.
Double-sided, 6/
D 1413
j The Cali {Teschemacher & Oliver) John Coates, tenor
l Till Yon Come Home Again (Lockton & Gayne) John Coates, tenor
12-inch Double-sided, 6/6.
787
f I'm a Koamer, from “Son and Stranger” (Mendelssohn) .. Norman Allin, b.ass
( The Village Blacksmith (Weiss) Norman Allin, bass
WHOLESALE AQ 2 AITS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY. N.S.W. —Grafonoia, Ltd., Halving House. Kawsou Place. '
MEkHOt I!NE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —.Messrs. Hugo Wertlieim Pty ,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE. Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE. S.A>—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A.—H. R. Firtli. Royal Arcade. r
AUCKLAND. N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter. Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Wehley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
ail Information
may be
obtained.
m - ;
aw
IBH
CJjrsz. Cs#jJ’r//y<s&
for £?,iifitoycrierf f^o£fSSrsw/r*p
■■■■•• v*em«m*y _ e,oa f r to .,o 3
Listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
>Steel
Castings
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL— HEAT-
TREATED.’’—For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
1 AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


Can’t Beat Cocoanut
Oil for Hair Wash.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. .Just ordinary eolinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid! is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaSpoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliuess. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And best of all. ibis eolinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get eolinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “eolinated,” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
'IMPORTANT: Do not confuse eolinated cocoanut i
o : ] with cheaper sticky, emulsified coeoauut oils j
or other substitutes. there is only one genuine j
eolinated eil, as recommended above.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Callouses.
Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
I
Ml
This is a wonderfully easy,
quick and pleasant way of
freeing your feet of corns
and callouses. Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-lee right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes.
The corn or callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
i« for mtn ana rvomiu «bo
fashionable, attractive footwear and foot
comfort With Frozol-Ice vou enjoy
hoth. There's no pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-Ice. nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding, healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice, and never let your corns
ache again. You’ll be delighted with it.
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Every
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists, High-class
Stores, etc.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder or
compressed tablets—never liquid or milk—
and is not a laxative. Any first-class oheraM
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia..
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“0.K.”: What is the public likely to gain
from the Williamson-Tait combine save an
increased fondness for picture shows? Why,
even the benefit of competition in panto—
which wasn’t much of a benefit —will be
denied the public next Christmas. To under-
stand what a spirited competition might have
been worth, one has to think back to the
time of Clarke and Meynell, who gave Aus-
tralia a series of bright comic operas, be-
“IRENE," AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Mrs. O'Dare (Maggie Weston ) drops in to
spoil the party.
ginning with “Hook of Holland,” before they
produced “The Arcadians.” Then came the
refreshing first visit of Oscar Asche and Co.
(with Shakspearean shows which only George
Musgrove had equalled when lie was com-
peting against J.C.W.), followed by the
glories of "The Chocolate Soldier.” Soon
after that came the combine, the best results
whereof were the Quinlan Opera Co. (more
Quinlan than Combine) and Genee. The re-
turn visit of Oscar Asche was due to a con-
tract that the defunct firm of Clarke and
Meynell had signed.
“Yelnats”: The Australian film-producer
has a lot to learn before he can hope to seri-
ously compete with the Yankee. Though
careless direction and poor photography will
rum any picture, the most careful of direc-
tion and the best of photography will be
nullified by poor acting. For this reason the
Australian custom of engaging actors and
actresses by the day is bad. They regard
the job merely as a pot-boiler, and have no
financial interest in the success or failure
of the picture. The permanent movie-actor,
on the other hand, knows that his popularity
increases with each successful picture, and
his pay-cheque grows with his popularity.
Aot an actor who has so far appeared in
pictures in Australia has made a name for
himself with the picture-going public, where-
as the American star is known from Cook-
town to Perth. The first Australian firm
to get a film-artist into the public eye and
keep him there will be the real pioneers
ot the Australian motion-picture industry.
D.’ : The dramatic convention in mis-
cegenation plays, such as “The Heart of
YV etona, is to depict the colored lady as the
inevitable slave of the white man. The
white any old white—is to her what the
wicked squire is to the village maiden in an-
other sort of drama. The one is probably
about as true to life as the other. I never
see a sample of these black-and-white
shows without recalling a lugubrious Brit-
pil,o,?l' sat V’ith me on a verandah
in Dakka (\Y est Africa) and decried the
natives of the part of the country in which
fj® If 10 ) been serving. He objected to
the fickleness of the black ladies where
a white man was concerned. It was
“IRENE," AT
SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Chester Clute as
Madame Lucy, the
male modiste.
impossible, he complained, for a Caucasian
to hold one of them against a black rival.
Ihe woman did not seem to appreciate the
honor that had been done her when she was
selected out of all her tribe by a pure-
blooded Englishman of birth and education.
lar from regarding her pale-faced admirer
as a god, her tendency was to treat him as
a joke, and one to be betrayed at the first
opportunity. Such is the truth, or something
very like it;. and yet if a playwright con-
structed a drama in which a white husband
was robbed of his colored wife by a buck
nigger not a manager would look at it.
“£ rb ” T ; “Save from the “Bunty’ company,
\\ alter Bentley and Eloise Juno, Australian
stage-ocotch has been deplorable during the
Hst 40 years,” says “Old Pot” (B. 5/S/’2O).
Yet Stirling Whyte worthily upheld the
brose accent here for many years. I once
heard George _ Rignold start to correct
Whyte s Berwick burr when he was re-
hearsing a Scotch part. Then suddenly
realismg that he was trying to paint the
thistle, Rignold apologised. “YVhyte, I’m
? , d 7~ d he saidl —“ Go ahead!”
Lachlan McGowan, too, was a finished
Scotch actor, and as Baillie Nicol Jarvie in
“Rob Roy” he had more.haggis in his voice
than ever Walter Bentley owned. I heard
Sir Hector MacDonald (“Fighting Mac”)
congratulate Wm. Grant on his accent as the
Laird in “Trilby”—that was with Tyrone
Power and Edith Crane at the Melbourne
Princess’s in 1901. Harcourt Beatty also
played that part in Australia, and surely his
accent was impeccable. His performance as
the climbing Glasgow demagogue in Barrie’s
“What Every Woman Knows” was a master-
piece, for he gradually sloughed the broad
accent until as a member of the British
Cabinet in the last act he had only a faint
trace of parritch left. Apropos, when the co.
was in Maoriland, Harky chuckled over a
Dunedin critique which said: “Mr. Beatty as
John Shancl was inconsistent, as his Doric
accent was very imperfect, and badly main-
tained.” Beatty instructed Eardley Turner,
Jimmy Atholwood and Gregan McMahon in
the nuances of the kailyard dialect, for their
parts in that same play. His full name is
Harcourt Beatty Bland, and he is a Glas-
gow man.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Melba Is described
by a daily here as “a girl of Scottish family
born in the unmusical Australia of her day.”
High-class music was flourishing in Australia
before Melba was born; in fact, it was more
popular in pre-Melba days than it has ever
been since. What about Lyster and his
prosperous Opera House in Bourke-street,
Melbourne? There is nothing of the sort
visible there now. I recall Anna Bishop,
Sarah Flower, Agatha States, Annis Mon-
tague, Alice Rees, Lucy Chambers, Madame
Simonsen, the Coys, Armes Beaumont,
Edward Farley and a score of others, all
first-class vocalists, who flourished in Aus-
tralia in the pre-Melba period. Grand opera
was the rule then; it is the exception to-day.
‘Unmusical” be hanged!
“Norbell”: I’m glad to know that the
Actors Ass. has put up the shutters at last,
and that the more or less valuable presents
made to it by managerial admirers are to be
returned to the donors by order of the Court.
What becomes of the egregious “Honor
Board” solemnly unveiled bv the G.-G. a
couple of years ago? Dozens of dinkum
Digger-actors were not mentioned on that
scroll, while several importations and some
footlight favorites who never enlisted for
active service were glorified in gilt letters.
‘Cabertal”: “Eyes of Youth,” now play-
ing at Melbourne King’s, must hold the record-
for changes of cast. Before it ever played a
revival there had been two Ginas, black
maids, Picquards, Blakes, Louises and Dads;
three Ritas, Yogis and Salvoes; five Gorings:
six Brooks; 10 Judges, and I’m not attempt-
ing to reckon up how many co-respondents.
But that is not all there is to it. Artists
were taken out of parts and put back in them
again on numerous occasions. One of the
judges was racking his brain one night and
enumerating the changes of cast. He
reached 59 and nearly made it 60 by missing
his entrance. Now that this production has
been revived it would give you a headache to
•reckon up the alterations.
“D.J.M.”: “Ike Pagliacci” on picture-show
posters (B. 29/7/’2O) reminds me of a couple
that took my fancy in Newtown, Sydney.
Time, June of last year. The star features,
bracketed together in two-foot letters over
the whole width of the entrance, yelled:
“Lawless Love” —“Who Is My Father?”
“Pugg Nashus”: I challenge all legitimate
stage and N other reminiscers to outpoint the
following case of doubling in “East Lynne.”
It occurred at White Feather (afterwards
Kanowna), next coach stage on from
Hannan’s (Kalgoorlie), late in 1596. A
mixed co. hit the Feather short of its
“heavy,” who couldn’t be persuaded to leave
Hannan’s, where he had met an old friend
who had a job as barman. Nothing for it but
to press the business manager (who always
played Policeman Bullock) into service as the
villain Levison. “Can’t be done,” argued the
b.-m. “I simply couldn’t arrest myself in the
semi-final scene!” But it was done. The
packed galvanised iron-roofed theatre’s audi-
ence for five consecutive nights saw the low-
comedy John Hop Bullock, after his lines
with the spinster aunt, talk to an imaginary
Levison off stage on the o.p. side, finally
declaiming: “Put yez dirty hands out for the
bracelets yez ought to have been wearin’
long ago !” —improvised lines these certainly
—whereupon two black-sleeved and white-
cuffed arms extended and Bullock handcuffed
them. Then—curtain ! Save for the lines of
Little Willie, I doubt if the script of this
travelling bunch of mummers for “East
Lynne,” “The Woman in White” and “Called
Back” (their repertoire) resembled the
originals to the extent of a dozen speeches.
I know that the prompter’s book for the
“East Lynne” perpetration consisted of six
penny memorandum-books with the lines
written in pencil by half-a-dozen fists. I was
the prompter and the hardest worked man
in the circus.
“H.”: Australian Daphne Pollard, “that
quaint imp of drollery,” as the Daily Tele-
graph critic calls her, has scored again in
the London Hippodrome revue, “Jig Saw,”
aided and abetted by Stanley Lupino, Laddie
Cliff, and a sprightly lot of long-haired con-
federates. Some of the critics advise the
management to find more work and greater
opportunities for Daphne, as she is the prime
favorite of the show.
By the simple, straightforward business of
singing decent music-hall songs in male attire
Vesta Tilley has grown very, very rich. For
more than 30 of the 40 years she has been
London’s “famous male impersonator” she
has earned such a large salary and turned
it to such good account that theatrical rumor
now credits her with £200,000 to go on with.
“Norbell”: Yes, Charlie Woods used to
commence the proceedings in Pharaoh v.
Joseph, in “Joseph of Canaan,” by inquiring
from the throne, “Is the ’Ebrew ’ere?” But
though, he made a very creditable pantaloon
in the harlequinade of the ’97 pantomime at
Sydney Her Majesty’s, and that’s 23 years
ago. he now wears on his lapel the Digger’s
badge, and for that I tips my lid.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the division between
song-writer and composer. Mayor Amess
gave £5OO for a musical item, “Euterpe,” for
the opening of Melbourne Town Hall—
foundation-stone laid by the Duke of Edin-
burgh. Henry Kendall wrote the words;
Charles Henry Horsley composed the music.
Amess called in a couple of experts to divide
the prize. Kendall got £75 or so, Horsley
“HIS LITTLE WIDOWS ,” AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Biff Hale (Hugh Steyne) tries to get a
smile from Mormon Smith (Laurence
Hardinge).
the balance. There was a row, but this divi-
sion stood. The coin did neither composer
nor writer any good, though. Horsley went
to New York and died there; and Kendall-
well, he also died later on.
“Stargazer”: The company had been
rushed down from a trying season in Sydney
by .special, with just time to beat the dust
out of its hair and get going on the opening
performance of the Melbourne season. The
show was a heavy one, “Othello,” and the
stage-manager had to work like a tiger to
keep the performance from taking on the
aspect and characteristics of a convalescents’
home. Towards the finish the strain told
woefully on many performers, and when the
Moor had resolved on murther, and spoke
Desdemona’s cue as she lay in her bed —
This sorrow’s heavenly,
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes—
there was no reply from the lady. There
followed an awkward pause, and then faintly
from Desdemona’s bed came a snore. “She
wakes!” repeated Othello wildly. The snore
increased in volume; it assumed a penetrat-
ing falsetto quality that reached the last
.seat of the gallery and the limits of the
pit. Othello roared:
.... This sorrow’s heavenly,
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes—
He was quite mistaken. Desdemona did not
awake. She snored right up the scale, and
over the top, and the house was filled with
a dreadful tittering. So the Moor cut out
a long scene on his own responsibility, and
got right down to the smothering. But even
that did not awaken the worn-out heroine.
The climax came when to Othello’s “She’s
dead,” the corpse replied with a long, rip-
pling, nasal noise there was no mistaking.
Then Othello, losing all restraint, was heard
to gurgle: “My God, madam, sleep if you
must; but. damn it all, don’t snore!” Des-
demona’s troubles —she snored to the bitter
end, which came after the fall of the curtain,
when the producer awakened her with a
darning-needle.
Oswald Stoll, the London variety manager,
threw out a lot of ground-bait lately in the
hope of catching new comic talent from the
“provinces.” Return fares to London were
paid with a guinea for expenses and a ten-
minutes’ trial on the stage ; and hundreds of
applicants turned-up. The current joke
against Stoll is that one of them was a
very successful Glasgow man who has con-
tracts for years ahead. But it was the week
of the English Cup-final (soccer football),
an event which he never missed in any case,
and the Scot hailed the chance of getting his
fare paid.
“Hamfat”: If I ever become a bagman, I
will marry an American movie actress,
and let her do the packing, to save
freight. She can hurl herself into a
motor-car and drive miles with just a
suit case. Yet at the other end of the
journey she manages to array herself in half-
a-dozen voluminous costumes, besides some-
thing special for the bathroom scene. How
do they do it?
EMMA’S LEGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I have been looking at the bones of Carbine in
your Museum, and it occurred to me that where
there are no more sacred bones even the bones of
a horse may serve to foster reverence.’’
—Satirical stranger in Melbourne.
Miss ISnirna Weggs in early youth
Went saucily upon the stage,
To earn her daily bread, in truth,
And firstly figured as a page,
A page in palest purple tights.
They were her making, sure as eggs.
For something like a hundred nights
Men fioeked to murmur fond delights
About the pegs,
The long, slim, neatly-fashioned, legs,
Of Emma YY'eggs.
Ml'he girl’s engagement was renewed,
And greatly they increased her pence.
No wonder presently she viewed
Her legs with gentle reverence.
She tended them with touching care.
And watched their twin perfections grow.
The town was ready to declare
That on this earth no legs as fair,
Proportioned so,
Or with the same artistic flow,
Could human show.
Miss Emma heard the words of praise,
She read the poets’ fervent rhymes,
And with the passing of her days
Grew more obsessed. At stated times
She massaged calf and dimpled knee.
She thought so much of them that grew
All other parts subservient. She
Was simply legs, if such may be,
And long and true,
With satin skin and perfect thew,
They were on view.
Of her most lovely legs she’d rave,
For they were famed in distant lands.
She loved them so, her sole to save
At times she walked upon her hands.
And when she died a legacy
She left the nation—both her legs!
By Carbine’s bones to-day you’ll see
Devout old Johnnies bend the knee
To woeful dregs—
All that is mortal of the pegs
Of Emma Weggs.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


P
V
S-'y;- ;
% m
\ym'^
«#** 's ' ' '■ •''•ii-.voi' '&§»£&* '
1
i
m
: ■
U
■
mm
&:& r
mm
Uj\:,4
ym
... . ■
•' •:
V- • j
WsSEmimm
IKimHMb*
i *
'J- .*
IJSSIr^
MT
Western Electric Power and Light was
Chosen for the Royal Train
For supplying electric light whenever the Royal Train was
stationary for any length of time, the New South Wales
Government chose Western Electric Power and Light.
The choice of the Western Electric Plant for this impor-
tant duty should be sufficient indication of Western
Electric Quality.
Western Electric Power and Light is a complete self-contained light and
power plant, simple to run and easy for any inexperienced person to man-
age. It "supplies an abundance of electric current not only lor lighting
purposes but also for operating electric appliances such as a griller, toaster,
sewing machine, washing machine, iron, or vacuum cleaner. Added to
this you have the full power of a 3% h.p. Kerosene Engine for driving
light machinery. The superiority of Western Electric Power and Light is
apparent to any man who compares its capacity and workmanship with
any similar plant on the market.
SPECIFICATIONS—ENGINE, 31/4 h.p. 4-cycle, Kerosene driven,
Throttle Governed, Air Cooled, and equipped with Automatic Feed for
Fuel and Oil. BATTERY—I 6 Cells, capacity 180 Ampere Hours at
8 hour rate of discharge (intermittent rating 288 Ampere Flours). GEN-
ERATOR—Capacity 1500 Watts. SWITCHBOARD consists of a
simple control panel easily understood.
Western Electric Power and Light is not only the most desirable plant
for your country home, but it’s easy to buy. Write for 20 page Book
post free from any of the following.
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (Australia) LTD.
192 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
G. R. Foster, 262 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE
T Tonks, Elizabeth Street, BRISBANE
AGENTS
Newton McLaren, Leigh St.. ADELAIDE
Medhurst Electric Co., Argylc St., HOBART
A. D. Riley 6c Co., Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON
Also at CHRISTCHURCH, AUCKLAND, DUNEDIN
N.Z.
Power and Light
A Copy of the full Prospectus has been filed for Registration with the Registrar-General of Victoria.
Abridg'ed Prospectus of
Australasian Reinsurance Company
(To be Incorporated and Registered under the Companies Act 1915).
Limited
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: {1,000,000,
Divided into 1,000,000 Shares of £i each.
Issue of 150,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each at par,
of which 135,000 are now offered for subscription,
payable as follows:
2/6 on Application.
2/6 on Allotment.
5/- Three Months after Allotment.
DIRECTORS:
ALEXANDER CAMPBELL (Director North Broken Hill Limited ancl Silverton
Tramway Company), 31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
SAMUEL DAVID HILDAS, Merchant, 400 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY FREDERICK DUNCAN OSMENT, Investor, 331 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. W. B. McCUTCHEON, 418 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
BANKERS:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE.
BROKERS:
HAL SHEPPARD, 331 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Messrs. T. H. MARTYN & CO., 117 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. GURNER & McARTHUR, King William Street, ADELAIDE.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. EDWIN V. NIXON & CO., Collins House, MELBOURNE.
Messrs. RUCKER & MACKENZIE, 27 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
MANAGER & SECRETARY (pro tem.) and REGISTERED OFFICE:
ALBYN BROWNING SLUCE, F.A.1.1., 18-20 Market Street, MELBOURNE.
THE SUBSCRIPTION LIST was opened on
SATURDAY, the 24th day of JULY, 1920.
WAR and PEACE BONDS will be accepted at
Market Price in Payment or Part Payment.
The Company has been formed for the main purpose of undertaking the REINSURANCE of all
classes of risks (except Life ami Bond Investment), but its principal object and business will be the
REINSURANCE OF FIRE, ACCIDENT AND MARINE RISKS, and other business as permitted by its
Memorandum and Articles of Association.
It does not purpose to compete with the existing TARIFF COMPANIES, but will co-operate with
them. The Company intends to strictly limit its liabilities in accordance with the prudent principles
adopted by the leading' Insurance Companies in order to obviate the risk of a serious loss in any
particular contingency.
Within the past few years there has been a very large development of Insurance business. The
greatly increased value of building's and commodities should in itself largely augment the amount
of FIRE REINSURANCE business available, as in many cases where the Insurance Companv already
holds the limit of its retention for the insurance of a property the whole of the increase in values
will require to be covered by REINSURANCE. In other departments the same feature is in opera-
tion. Higher wages have increased —EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY INSURANCE and higher values and
larger cargo-carriers have resulted in increased MARINE INSURANCE being necessary in respect of
each separate risk.
There is undoubtedly an opening for an AUSTRALASIAN REINSURANCE COMPANY. There is
no such Public Company of any magnitude in AUSTRALIA.
It is intended to open Branches in SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and other centres.
The Promoters of this Company are the A.R.C. PROPRIETARY, LIMITED, formerly the ARC
Syndicate.
Valuable REINSURANCES are now being offered to the Company, which should immediately it
is ready to do business find a substantial aggregation of risks awaiting its acceptance.
REINSURANCE has in the last decade developed into one of the most important branches of
Insurance business throughout the world. • There are over FORTY companies in GERMANY and
AUSTRIA, TWENTY in the UNITED KINGDOM (sixteen established within the last two years) and
many new Companies elsewhere doing REINSURANCES exclusively, and results from statistics as
shown in the full Prospectus indicate that a well-conducted REINSURANCE COMPANY should form
a safe and profitable investment. DIVIDENDS ranging from 15 per cent, to 46 per cent have been
regularly maintained by the principal REINSURANCE COMPANIES abroad.
The share price-lists afford further evidence of the remunerative business done by Insurance Com-
panies. Some shares issued at £1 are now quoted at £3 and upwards. IN AUSTRALIAN IN-
SURANCE COMPANIES there has been a substantial increase in dividends and profits.
It is believed that the present time is most opportune for the flotation of a REINSURANCE COM-
PANY. It is of the utmost importance to increase the facilities for the placing of AUSTRAL I\ N
REINSURANCE business with an AUSTRALIAN REINSURANCE COMPANY in order to assist in keen-
ing within this COUNTRY the large premium revenue transmitted—AßßOAD and LOST to the COM-
MONWEALTH under present reinsurance and treaty practices.
It will not be necessary to reserve any part of this issue further than the allotment of fifteen
thousand shares to the promoters paid up to 10s. each in order to secure the business connections they
can influence.
Preliminary expenses to an amount not exceeding one thousand pounds will be borne bv the
promoters.
Except as herein stated no shares are to be issued or agreed to be issued otherwise than for cash.
The following Contract has been entered into, namely: Agreement dated the 13th day of Julv.
one thousand nine hundred and twenty, between the A.R.C. Proprietary, Limited (the promoters), and
Albyn Browning Sluce (as trustee for this Company), providing for the issue to the promoters of
fifteen thousand shares paid up to ten shillings each for the considerations in the said Agreement
appearing.
The considerations for which the said fifteen thousand shares are to be issued to the promoters
are the payment by the promoters of preliminary expenses up to one thousand pounds together with
the other considerations appearing in the said Agreement.
Each of the Directors has subscribed to the Memorandum of Association for two hundred and fifty
shares in the Company (being the full qualification for a Director).
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is twenty-five
thousand shares paid up to ss. per share.
This abridged prospectus is published under the provisions of the Companies Act 1915, and does
not fully comply with the requirements of the Act as to a full prospectus.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of application for shares may be obtained at the ofiiee of
the Company, 18-20 Market Street, MELBOURNE, or at the offices of the Brokers’ Solicitors, Banker's
and Auditors of the Company. Applications for shares will only be accepted on one of the forms of
application referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the Prospectus.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & eO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
' oSe A«ents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern. Svdnev.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUIH& ?
iTwwwwMirawpfflimi
LEWIS &WHITTY MAKERS
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOR INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANAEMIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
fgs
Pleasant anti
Exhilarating.
(Registered.)
dfvg
A.B
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
SWIFT &JCO.’ I.TD„ Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland
tvfcitittt ™ Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
• , CO - I-'TD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Lxtra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPEDTING
NEEDS
The Epsom favorite Clirysolaus was given
a run in the Auburn Handicap, seven furlongs, at
Roseliill on Saturday. Though he will probably go
to an even shorter price for the mile, his Saturday’s
effort was no great shakes. He was a long way
above himself, and played up so at the barrier that
he moved off a good eight lengths after everything
else. Taking the trip in a leisurely way he clapped
on pace in the straight and arrived fifth. But the
lot behind were an ordinary bunch, arid were already
tiring away when the big grey started galloping. As
an Epsom trial the effort showed no morn than that
the highly-strung importation is a beautiful mover,
and is in good heart. Whether Booth can put him
to the tape in condition to run out the Epsom is
still the merest speculation.
Provided Chrysolaus is delivered as well as he
was in the autumn, draws a good marble, starts off
promptly, and the going is firm, he will be hard
to beat. Steady toil may make him more tract-
able during the next six weeks. But whether it
will impart greater anxiety to move off the mark
is another thing; and it is an apparent unreliability
in this respect which should make the public cautious.
In the Doncaster h<#hopped off in the first flight.
In the All-aged Stakes he got away as slowly as he
did on Saturday, which is ominous. The Epsom
is not a race that goes to the dilatory at the post.
Outsiders, or comparative outsiders, have
won the Australian Hurdle of late years. The pace
improves (last Saturday’s time was a record), and the
pinkest pink of condition becomes more and more
an essential to success. Conspicuously fine condition
brought Silver Heart in a winner by six lengths, and
the chances are that if the race had been run a
fortnight earlier the gelding’s pull in the weights
would not have availed him. Until the previous
Saturday, when he ran second to Shadow Dancer in
a two-mile hurdle race at Mcfonee Valley, he was
only a six-year-old, so Pistolier, who finished second,
was giving him three or four years as well as a
stone in weight. Bright Plume and Kilowat, who
followed Pistolier home, were six-year-olds on August
1. and seeing that Kilowat was in at the minimum,
whereas Bright Plume was giving 121 b. to Pistolier,
it seems that the much-backed Bright Steel gelding
must indeed be a good hurdler over a distance. But
he isn’t all that Cecil Godby’s fancy painted him,
nor is he a specially remarkable stayer by compari-
son with other first-chop jumpers. Placed in each
of the three biggest hurdle events of the season—
National, Doutta Galla, and Australian Hurdle—he
scored a win at 2£ miles, a second at three miles
and a third at 31 miles. Still, he’s a better horse
than ever the oft-placed Pistolier was.
“0.K.”; What one member of the Vic.
State Ministry said to an ArgUS reporter last week
may be quoted as a fair specimen of the trumpery
sophistry that serves politicians as an excuse for
fighting the totalisator on Ikey Mo’s behalf. Listen:
“Some members of the Ministry are strongly
opposed to the totalisator. One Minister spoken to
last night said that he might be induced to vote
for such an innovation if it meant the disappearance
of bookmakers, but he would not agree to the intro-
duction of the totalisator on any other conditions.”
It means, of course, that there are no possibly obtain-
able ••conditions under which the legislator will vote
for the totalisator. And he talks of the machine as
“an innovation,” impudently ignoring the fact that'
it has been established in S.A. 'for about 30 years,
and for nearly as long in Maoriland. Also, it is an
old institution in Tasmania, Queensland and West-
ralia, whilst N. S. Wales, where the forces of Isaac
fought note and cheque against its inevitable arrival,
is beginning to get used to it. A man who at
this time of' day speaks of the totalisator as a
threatened “innovation” would be capable of refer-
ring to motor-cars as dangerous novelties. As for
the tote.’s moral possibilities, it is. quite certain that
bookmakers cannot begin to disappear until the
machine has taken their place on the racecourse and
been proved a boon to the little community of mild
gamblers- whp at present have only Moses to bet
with. The gambling evil, which, after all, is
■mainly fostered by pony-racing and maintained by
unlawful s.p. bookmakers in sequestered city offices, is
just what the local Government permits it to be; and
that member of the Vic. State Cabinet who promises
to oppose the totalisator until it can be guaranteed
to abolish bookmakers is himself one of the repre-
hensible authorities who havg^allowed the every-day
pony-racing and illicit betting-den evil to flourish
under the hypocritical Government’s nose. The Law
can prevent these things. It never should have
sanctioned a wretched little racecourse at Richmond,
in the Industrial heart of Melbourne, or any other
unlicensed racecourse. These squalid haunts of folly
and villainy can at least be abolished, and the
class of bookmaking that lives by their existence will
disappear likewise. But for racehorse owners and
their wealthy friends, and the tens of thousands of
rational punters who confine their interest in racing
to big meetings, or only big events at the biggest
meetings, for them there will always be bookmakers,
though there is no reason why men who make books
on future events should be permitted to carry bags
and compete openly with the totalisator on race-
courses. Every well-informed punter who punts for
pleasure, and- is prepared to pay the cost, advocates
the disappearance of bookmakers in their old odds-
bawling capacity, and the disappearance of all un-
registered racecourses. But to talk of abolishing all
professional gamblers on big racing events, ere
instituting the totalisator, is childish when it is
not crafty. As well talk of abolishing club card-
rooms, private sweepstakes and Stock Exchange bet-
ting in Badak shares.
The late Mark Whitty was never in the
central limelight as a trainer, but for many years
he was never far out of the limelight. His two
wins with Buzzi, and other big jumping successes
with Valdis, Obi and Arcadia kept his name associated
with the “sticks” until unlucky Flavian and Uncle
Sam —brilliant, ill-conducted Uncle Sam—connected
his stable with the Caulfield and Melbourne Cups.
Then Prince Bardolph, striking a weak field, was
able to run away with a Sydney Cup in the colors
of Whitty’s old patron Crawford, the Melbourne
wine-merchant. Next year Bardolph captured the
Williamstown Cup and the imported mare Harriet
Graham won the Australian Cup. The English mare
was the last of his notable winners. A lot was
talked about her at the outset of next season, but
she proved to be not much good.
Considering the natural risks that a slim-
legged racehorse runs in the course of preparation
for a Spring campaign, the chances of bad luck
under the best of conditions on the track, the
possibility of young animals developing into mere
squibs while older ones are growing wayward and
uncertain, ani) the utter impossibility of estimating
the quality of the new season's three-year-old form
until it is compared with the seasoned stuff, no
punter can be said to have “a good double” thus
early in the racing year. The chances are that he
hasn’t picked two starters, or even one starter.
'Even if the two he picks keep going the chances of
their being favorites for their respective events are
remote, whereas the probability that a 20-to-one
chance will get home in either case is never remote.
Now, what ought to be a reasonable price about a
double—three months prior to the first of the two
events?
“D.D.”: “H.E.P.” inquires (B. 29/7/’2O)
re a recent decision in favor of a footballer who,
having left the field, broke into the game again at
a crucial moment. Precedent is with the referee.
Years ago during a
match at. St. Luke's
Park, Burwood (Syd-
ney), an injured Par-
ramatta player left
the field. Just on
time a Burwood half
passed the opposing
backs and looked cer-
tain to score the two
points necessary for a
win. Whereat the
wounded man revived,
upended the approach-
ing menace and saved
the match. There was
n o controversy, and
the umpire was a
well-known Rugby
Union official.
TILYARD,
Captain, M.L.R.U.
footballers.
Norths defeated a weakened Eastern
thirteen last Saturday by 21 points (5 tries 3 goals)
to 10 points (2 tries 2 goals) in Sydney League com-
petition. The Red and Black forwards were in great
nick, and at present are equal to any pack in the
game. George Green as “rake” gave his backs more
than a fair share of the ball, and his ruck work and
clever dribbling were object-lessons to some of the
younger players. Easts iii the first spasm were
assisted by a hard southerly blow, which they did not
use to full advantage. H. Border plaved' his best
game this season/ piling up 12 (2 tries 3 goals) out of
his side’s 21. His swerving, side-stepping, tackling
and running were above reproach. Blinkhorn, the
Shoremen’s speedy winger, landed two tries, and his
back-to-back spar with skipper Norman was one of
the ‘ titbits of the tussle. Norths’ best forwards
were Green, Ives and Horsey ; whilst for the Surfers
Pearce, Lees and Williams were most noticeable.
The other games provided good football. Souths
slathered Glebe by 10 points to three; Newtow.n beat
Annandale by 14 to five; Wests held a scoring-bee
at ’Varsity’s expense and totted up 46 to 11. Bal-
main had the bye, and journeyed to Brisbane, where
they defeated Bananaland’s premier League thirteen
—Western Suburbs—by 30 points (8 tries 3 goals)
to nil. ’Mains now appeal to have the premier-
ship well in hand.
* * * *
Saturday’s ehief Melbourne League game
—’Roy v. ’Wood—left ’Roy
at the top of the list
—mainly through ’Wood’s
faulty goal-shooting. They
felt the absence of their
champion. forward, Dick
Lee. Barring accidents
the winners must now keep
their position into the
finals. Scores: ’Roy, 71
points; ’Wood, 57, Carl-
ton, level with South for
fourth place, took no
chances against Essendon,
and by half-time had piled
up 45 to ’Don’s 26. Final
scores: Old Blues, 89;
“Same Olds,” 62. Mel-
bourne collected 83 points
to St. Kilda’s 21, and
Saints’ maddened bar-
rackers hooted the harm-
less umpire loud and long.
Richmond was at home to
Geelong, and totted up
112 points to Geelong’s
44, so as to improve its
average in case it finishes
the first round level with
’Roy.
REG HUNT, sec.
Carlton Football Club.
At Sydney Sports Ground N.S.W. Rugby
Unionists got their third licking from the Maori -
landers. It was a 24-13 affair this time. Mayne
dropped his usual side-step to avoid a tackle, and
tried instead to punt over Steele’s head. The
effect was disastrous. Humphries, who was making
iiis debut against the invaders, should have been
at, half-back in place of the too-gradual Mingay.
Marrott played a fine foll«wing-up game,
and Bond and Watson held their end up against
the hefty Islanders. Beith (full-back) had plenty
to do, and did it well. Incidentally, he made his
brother practitioners the present of a patient in
Steele. Roberts, the visitors’ incomparable half
was too slippery for the Walers, and could usually
make 20 or 30 yards before passing. Tilyard, their
captain, played an unselfish game, but had most
of his openings nullified by Badeley, who failed to
hold the ball. The tide of play set towards Storey
on the left wing, and he was very dependable.
Steele, on the other extreme, was given few chances.
Beiliss showed plenty of pace and energy for his
size.
South Adelaide met N.S.W. under Aus-
tralian Rules at Sydney on Saturday. In the first
few minutes Richards, ths N.S.W. forward, was
helped off the field with a broken collar-bone; and
at half-time the scores stood: Adelaide, 60; NSW
, , .„ the th > rd Quarter N.S.W. put all its weight
and skill into the fray, and compiled 41 points to nil.
S. Adelaide gradually drew up till at the bell N.S.W
was only just able to scramble home by 83 points
to . vv . , T . he visitors excelled in high-marking and
quick-kicking.
* * *
Football clubs in Adelaide show a com-
plete reversal of form. Sturt, which couldn't lose
at the beginning of the season, have been just as
unable to win lately, and have dropped out of the
first four, which consisted last week of North
Adelaide, Port, West Torrens and Norwood. But
every club has been beaten twice or more
* „
Sydney Stadium crowd rose up and hissed
like a shipload of snakes on Saturday night, when, at
ii i i 20 excltin g rounds, referee Wallis sig-
nailed a draw by placing one paternal hand on the
head of Englishman Joe Symonds and the other on
S £ Jl L of . Australian Jerry Sullivan. The mob
thought the Australian should have got the decision,
and tor once the mob was right—-though Symonds
wasn t so far behind in points. The lean Sullivan
was 41b. lighter than his nuggety opponent, and
looked as if he was giving away even more than that.
But, once in action, he proved that he was made of
pluck, ironbark and fencing-wire. There was alwavs
sting in his punches, and, though he took delivery of
some staggerers, his cleverness enabled him to pass
back others just as good and to miss some uppercuts
Oiat were loaded with sleep. On several occasions
roof ° n ” S 8 * ° Ve seemed ** flash half-way to the
“Pongo”: Re the authorship of the
Queensberry rules. The Marquess, interviewed by
one Hackett during his visit to America in 1891,
stated -that the author of the rules was the late
John Chambers, a fellow undergrad, at Cambridge
who afterwards became editor of Land and Water’
Chambers brought the rules to the Marquess, who
made only two or three slight alterations.
“Sir Spen”: It happened one night in
Narrabri just after Bill Squires had “found his
punch,” hut before he had exposed it in the pro-
fessional arena. There was a disturbance at a local
pub, and an unwary one had challenged Bill to
produce practical support to his side of the argu-
ment They shaped up near the sawmill. One
punch and BUI was adjusting his coat while tbev
raked his opponent out of the sawdust. The
latter was hopeful, however, and offered to try
his luck again. Smack! The performance was
repeated. When he regained his feet the vanquished
man approached Bill with an outstretched hand.
rut it here fie said; “the first one was no ——
nuke, after all. ’
The AustmHfm Golf Club’s medal (36
holes stroke) at Kensington (Sydney) last week
brought together the finest foozling of this year’s big
handicaps. Most of the top-notch professionals and
amateurs competed, and the totalling of cards showed
Joe Kirkwood (plus 12), Arthur East ( plus 8) and
1). G. Soutar (plus 8) level with 156 each. The
replay -was once round (half handicap), and East
won with 73 ( plus 4=77). Kirkwood fell away to 77
(plus 6=83). Soutar tired on the trip, and picked
up. East played almost without blemish, and gave
a glimpse of the top-notch form he showed last
year. Kirkwood failed in many shots that have
hitherto been easy, and the surfeit of golf is evidently
wearying him. Still, on the day, East was his
superior without the handicap. N. S, Wales Country
golfers also had revelry on the links, but the Blue
Gums didn’t rise to great heights. O. D. Meares
(Leura) was much the better out of 17 who com-
peted, and returned cards of 79 and 75=154. Except-
ing H. W. McLelLand and W. H. Brown (Newcastle),
the display was secondary, and most of the players
evidently expected logs or anthills to bunker them.
In the Ladies’ championship the visitors repaid hos-
pitality by badly beating the Ma Staters. Mrs. G.
Williams (Auckland), sturdily built, whose weight
and long hitting combined excellently, went round
in 90, 87 and 84=261. The 84 (only two worse
than bogey) was the best effort among the ladies.
The Maorilander’s display was an object-lesson to
many others who imagined they were in the cham-
pionship class. Mrs. Gatehouse (265) and Miss G.
Hay (266) followed. Both ladies play with the
Metropolitan (Vic.) Golf Club when at home, and
each suffers from the golf-sin of cross-hitting too
much. In the inter-State match the Vic. ladies
triumphed by four matches to three. The -Rose Bay
Cup also crossed the border through the display of
Miss Lascelles (Vic.), who won with 177 from Mrs.
Yuill (N.S.W.) with 179. The winner surpassed in
all departments except putting, and with schooling
would easily be a half-a-dozen-strokes-better player.
The play, generally, of the N. S. Wales women was
mediocre.
» *
Richard Harry, one of Victoria’s best
up-country cricketers in the ’eighties, has just
died at Glenelg (S.A.) at 65. He had been in
the office of the Adelaide Gas Co. for many years.
S.A. Cricket Assoc, has not had a paid
coach since Crawford was tempted by a better offer
from M.L. Before that, O’Connor and Mcßeath were
engaged from N.S.W. All these men played for
the State while they' lived in Adelaide, helping
especially its generally-weak bowling. The coach
just engaged, Karl Quist, has had his day in first-
class cricket, but it is over. He was captain of
the Sydney Club nearly 20 years ago.
Rowing takes the latest South Aus.
Rhodes scnolar to Oxford. Coombs is a product
of State-school and Teachers’ Training College in
Adelaide. He holds a research scholarship at the
Uni., and was stroke of the eight that recently won
the ’Varsity championship of Australia.
In the big sculling handicap on the Parra-
matta (Sydney') on Saturday George Towns showed
that a man is not too old at 51—sometimes. In-
dulgent handicappers had allotted him 45sec., and
neither R. Short (lOsec.) nor Alf Felton and Barry
(scr.) could catch him. The race was too short
to gauge the comparative form of the back-markers;
but Felton led the Englishman throughout, and was
doing best at the judge’s end.
In the Consolation Handicap Billy McDevitt (scr.)
dead-heated with Milton Kent (15sec.). Ripley, who
will race McDevitt for the N.S.W. championship a
fortnight hence, was badly defeated -in the first heat
by Dick Arnst, Richard, for some mysterious
reason, failed to start in the final.
One morning recently two machines left
Ascot (Sydney) at 7 o’clock for Brisbane and
Melbourne respectively. The northern trip was
made by Lieut. Butler in 7hr. 23min. actual flying
just on 20 hours ahead of railway “express” time;
while Lieut. Griggs and C. J. de Garis arrived in
damaged condition at Melbourne after stoppages in
Bhr. lOmin. Another flight in the same week was
made from Glen Huntley (Vic.) aerodrome to
Bathurst (N.S.W.)—about 450 miles —in 4hr. 55min.
* * * *
“15-30”: Faith in Gerald Patterson has
been badly shaken by his defeat in the lawn-tennis
championships at Wimbledon, and there is now a
suggestion that he will not be asked to partner
Norman Brookes in the Doubles match for the
Davis Cup. O’Hara Wood, whose quality as a
doubles player was shown by his grabbing the
championship with Thomas at Wimbledon in 1919,
is now mentioned as Brookes’s likeliest accomplice,
and color is lent to the allegation by the sudden
appearance of the pair together in recent matches
at South Yarra. It seems evident that Brookes will
make another appearance with our Davis Cup team,
though he is nothing like the Norman w r ho kept
the tennis world agape a decade ago. His finesse
and judgment seem unimpaired, but he is now
liable to be screwed into anxious postures by any
service that departs from the normal. The other
day he was almost feeble when playing against
young Hawkes of Geelong, who was shooting in a
high, spinning ball on Norman’s backhand and
actually getting the veteran into difliculties. Pat-
terson, of course, will officiate in the Singles for
the Cup, and the other Singles player should be
O’Hara Wood —if he maintains the form he showed
last summer.
* * * #
“F.” : Mention of “Smiler” Hales’s scrap
with Everard Browne (B. 29./7/’2O) recalls that all
the sons of Thomas Alexander (“Rolf Boldrewood”)
and Sylvester Browne knew how to use their hands.
Their tutor was Joe Pluto, the colored feather-
weight who fought two draws with Griffo—he is
still teaching the young idea how to -jab and hook
in the West. “Rolf Boldrewood’s” sons Gerald and
Tom were also keen on polo, and at Kalgoorlie 20
years ago they promoted periodical polo-pony meet-
ings, to which Israel and his Gentile patrons were
admitted for the usual consideration. But there
was a lurking suspicion among the non-elect that
some of the polo Johnnies were making things too
willing, and the local Sun headed its report of one
of the festivals with the terse and subtly allusive
line “Robbery Under Arms.” Aggrieved' at this
delicate reference to his progenitor’s best-known
novel. Gerald Browne sought out Arthur Reid, the
Sun’s manager, and they adjourned to the back-
yard and bogged in. Browne won, but it took him
14 rounds to settle his critic, who put up a gallant
fight.
THE VICE-REGAL MUG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lord Forster, the new Governor-General, explains
that he doesn't know one horse from another, and
is wondering how he will fare when lie meets Sol
Green and Barney Allen. ‘lt is only my hopeless
condition of ignorance about racehorses,’ he said,
‘that makes me have any misgivings.’ ’’—London
correspondent of Sydney Sox.
The Governor was dining, in a friendly way, at
Tatt.'s
(A modern viceroy has to do such things) ;
The food was unimpeachable,, and wine was there
in vats —
The peerless sort of which the poet sings.
The vintage Moet hissed and foamed, and corks
banged loud and fast,
And yet the bland vice-regal brow with gloom was
overcast.
The President, upon whose right the noble guest
was placed
(Distinguished guests must ail endure this fate),
Upon his neighbor’s countenance the marks of sorrow
traced,
And longed the latter’s anguish to abate.
“Buck up, old sport,’’ he urged; “the dead are not
allowed in here.
“We keep ’em for the tracks. Ha! Ha!” The
joke fell Hat as beer:
It fell as flat as ancient beer, the reason being this
(A better one it ivould be hard to find):
The Governor was baffled by his friend’s antiphrasis.
“I hope, ’ he murmured, “that you will not mind,
But I the shameful truth must own —condemn me if
you will—
I hate to have to say it, but I can no more be still.
“The sporting knowledge which is yours, alas! was
never ipine
(I feel you must despise me in your heart).
I never get the proper odds when fields come into
line;
I hardly know a horse outside a cart’’—
“Lord, love a duck,” his host broke in, '“cut out
the blanky rest.
There’s no need to apologise. Us books like your
sort best.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


COULD YOU RUN A MILE TO-DAY?
m
■
i
$
I’ll bet you couldn’t—but don’t you wish you could? Don’t you
wish that you were “sound in wind and limb” and able to run or
jump or swim or row or box like you used to a few years back? It
is so easy to get out of condition, and the longer you leave it the
harder it is to regain. Start to-day to recover the grand sensation of
“feeling fit.”
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will be the means of giving' you Renewed Health and
Strength. You will find my exercises both beneficial and
an enjoyable pastime, and will look forward to the time
when you have to do them. You will find the benefits very
rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen
your lungs, and make you breathe in a natural manner.
My Booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about, my methods, fees, etc. I should
like to send you a copy.
Just write your name and address across this advertisement,
and post it to me. I will know what you mean. Send
three stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Natural Health and Physical Culture Expert,
31t Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Cr. Crown St.), Sydney.
1
M
>3
m
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the Wor 1 d*
MAKES OLD RAZORS
SHAVE LIKE NEW.
A sharp Razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself, yet
how to keep it sharp,
with tough beards has
always been the great
obstacle, for the average
man does not know how to set or
sharpen a Razor. The simple yet
exnedient PERFORATED HONE
solves the question permanently;
it provides a lifetime of easy-
shaving for a small outlay—only
5/-, or post free 5/6. TRY /THE
PERFORATED HONE; if it
doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or »post free 5/6 from
CL©
oo
0©
The Perforated Hone Co c ,
Dept. 11 —123 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. [6
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
suitaeie for
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES, NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THfe SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
i- »
'i
;<
, ' It
- r
1 •
<
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by—
BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES :
NEW SOUTH WALES—Arthur Ueplastrier & Co., Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND—BIair, Reed & Co., Ltd., Wellington.
MALAY STATES, JAVA—Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
for Indigestion.
CO
far.
.*'i ;;
JOIN
%
mm a
is*
l§i®t
afs
fcsiaSsiiii
i
Si
u
m
tie
The man who spends a good
part of his time in the saddle
will find “Whippet” Riding
Trousers the Best Possible
Investment.
The material in which they are made
is an ALL-WOOL texture, having all
the Hall-marks as to appearance of a
“Quality” Product, while close exam-
ination makes one wonder would it
ever wear out.
The Cutting has been carried out with
a scrupulous correctness, that places
the Garments right above usual con-
ceptions of the term “Ready-made,”
while the linings, etc., are of a grade
such as is rarely seen these days,
save in High-priced, Made-to-measure
Clothing.
3619
(Freig'Ht
Paid)
With Cross, Hip and Side Pockets,
Belt Loops, Buttons, etc.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
244-54 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


QUALITY IN GOLF SHIRTS
V
Made in Australia
RR3 —Best quality Zephyr Golf Shirts,
with white neck-bands, soft double cuffs
and detachable Peter Pan collars to match.
Best make and finish. White grounds
with various smart colored stripe designs.
All sizes. Price, each .. 16/6. .3 for 48/-
RR4 —Smart Zephyr Golf Shirts, linen
neck-bands, double cuffs and detachable
Peter Pan collars to match. Neat stripes in
sky, helio and black on white grounds. All
sizes. Price, each 18/6... .3 for 54/-
Men’s Outfitting Section :
Ground Floor, Pitt and Market Streets
We pay
ca riage
FARMER’S
Box 497
G.P.O.
Do Not Be Alarmed
At the Menace ot Colds
that is borne on every cool breeze.
Keep a bottle of Bbnnington’s
Irish Moss handy, and
have a perfectly free
mind this Winter
time.
BONMIMBTON’S
. CARRAGEEN
miSH'-MOSSi
CEORCi ■OMMKCTQH
m
ft
—f—
IRISH MOSS
Get a bottle to-day—
insist on Bonnington’s,
and take no proffered
substitute.
—is the standard remedy for Coughs, Colds, In-
fluenza, B ro n C hitis, Whooping Cough, and all Chest
complaints. 8.A.22.
lIOTT
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Young Wales was much amused by one
of his youthful northern partners who (as
usual) received a fag from the regal case.
The lady held it as though the thing might
explode at any moment. “Don’t you smoke V”
he asked. “N-no,” stammered the girl; “but
I thought I would have to as you gave it to
me.” Her partner hastily proffered a choco-
late instead.
Decked out in a general officer’s uniform
the G.-G. presented the “King’s colors” to
the regiments and battalions in which the
fighting units of the A.I.F. have been in-
corporated. The old commanding-officer of
the A.I.F. handed the color to the new man,
who lent it to his Ex., who passed it over to
the lieutenant whose job it will be in future
to look after it. This procedure had to be
gone through 22 times on the squashy, water-
logged Government House lawn. To reduce
the chances of their feet getting damp door-
mats were provided for Dame Helen, Mrs.
Pearce, Mrs. Sellheim and Miss Robertson,
who stood at the saluting-base chatting with
Admiral Grant and Adjutant-General Sell-
heim. Sir Ronald got off quite a stirring
200-word piece about the memories the un-
furling of the fringed Union Jacks would call
up. Pearce was the only one of the official
crowd who didn’t seem to fit into the picture;
he looked like an undertaker off for a half-
holiday.
Government House guests are hoping the
Forsters will censor the absurd curtsey intro-
duced by the Northcotes. Most vice-regal
guests do a charity bob, but a few r with equal
incorrectness spread the petticoats in the low
Court curtsey, which is horribly incongruous
when associated with a handshake.
The George Chirnside matron returns to
Australia next month. Quite a lot of Anglo-
Australians will flutter back with the new
G.-G:
The only daughter of the late Mars Buck-
ley is hurrying back to the Cold Country to
settle her affairs at that end of the world
before returning to her native Melbourne.
Her mother, who passed out in London early
this year, has left a fortune of considerably
over £lOO,OOO to her already well-gilded chil-
dren. But British death duties will make a
considerable dint in the pile.
Wigs, gowns, frills add mace used to be
given an airing once or twice a| year when
Parliament and suite went over to the Old
Treasury to present the address-in-reply and
the Appropriation Bill. Now the flummery
is left at the House, and a few frock-coats
are the only bit of “style” discernible at
these ceremonies. Lieut.-Governor Irvine is
a party to the change, though he compounded
by wearing one of the frock-coats for ten
minutes while the addresses-in-reply Avere
presented and he gave the stereotyped answer.
Alderman Cabena, in oils, has been added
to the gallery of horrors in Melbourne Town
Hall. It had to be. Portraits of former
mayors have been presented to them at the
instance of an incredible band of admirers
who desired their robed and chained Wor-
ships to be immortalised, each in his turn,
on perishable canvas. When a mayor-that-
was is presented Avith his portrait in oils he
passes it on to the municipality which he
continues to adorn, and thus it happens that
the east wall of the hall is lined with
Cabenas. One sits and gazes at them dur-
ing a piano i*ecital, and wonders who
some of them are. The portrait hangs
on long after the portrayed councillor is
dead and his admirers are no more. It
condemns the forgotten identity to silently
preach a wordless sermon, on the 1 transitory
nature of human greatness Avhere mayors are
concerned. A replica of the Cabena like-
ness, presented to the alderman’s wife, will
of course be a matter of domestic interest,
but a more interesting reminder ot the lady’s
year of gaudessing Avas a diamond btooch.
Time deals sympathetically with diamond
brooches. The years that render valueless
a stodgy portrait in oils of a departed muni-
cipal magnate will give the grace of an-
tiquity to his wife’s diamond decoration.
Come to think of it, every presentation to a
mayor should be an article of jewellery for
his good lady. Or something impressive and
improving in lace shaAvls.
Mrs! Alec Landale steams off to Port
Moresby this week with little Mrs. Maurice
Gibbes and a Byron Moore daughter. Mrs.
Alec is enthusiastically Australian and never
fails to calf for three cheers when any girl
she knows weds and settles in the Common-
wealth. A pretty Sydney niece, Maryi Camp-
bell, is soon to marry a son of North Shore
Grammar master Pulling. The pair agreed
to be made ohe when young Pulling left
for £he war five years ago. He only got
home last month.
Lady Susan Fitzclarence’s new husband is
a son of the late Sir Arthur Birch, manager
of the Burlington Gardens branch of the
Bank of England. Melba was to sing at the
wedding in St. George’s, Hanover Square.
Leslie Stuart declines to let a simply rotten
run of luck on the turf dim a cheery smile;
but Mrs. Leslie looks pale and worried owing
to the serious illness of her mother, Mrs.
Hayward. The sick lady is a sister of the
late Col. Tom Price and the widow of an
Anglican cleric.
111-health has compelled racing veteran
Sep Miller to cease activities as V.R.C. vice-
chairmap, but he does not feel quite out of
things, as his successor, Alan Currie, is mar-
ried to a daughter of his late brother, Albert
Miller. Alan Currie, who is nearly as
keenly concerned with horseflesh as he is
with sheep, spent five years in British khaki
and emerged from the war with a majors
crown, a couple of wound stripes and a
Military Cross. He always was a first-class
sport.
Paul Bibron’s latest bal cabaret at St.
Kilda Town Hall effervesced like a bottle of
freshly-uncorked champagne. With the aid
of our travelled Diggers Paul is gradually
teaching Melbourne jazzers to A revel wine-
fashion instead of rejoicing heavily in the
lager-beer manner. On this Friday night ouU
Bibron patrons carnivailed gaily armed with
colored balloons, whistles, posies of flowers
and other childish aids to gaiety. Amongst the
revellers were the French Consul and his
wife, both earnest jazzers. William Green
and several of the “Yes, Uncle,” stars came
on after the show with one of the Baillieu
boys’ and a male pal or two. Ralph Fal-
kiner and his handsome wife had a table, and
Dr. Norman MacArthur buzzed around
cheerily.
The widow of the late Dr. J. P.- Ryan
passed out last week in Sydney, where she
settled two years ago after the loss of her
husband. The pair were a modern Darby
and Joan.
Coadjutor-Archbishop Barry, of the Speck,
who was bailed up and interrogated by a
group of Cameron Highlanders while on his
way to his old home at Middleton, in County
Cork, is said to have been indignant; but it
is not quite clear what upset him —being
stopped by kilted soldiers or being asked
“Where is Hobart?” If he didn’t get a laugh
out of it somehow he couldn’t have been well.
Being an archbishop doesn’t stop him from
making jokes even about his ginger hair.
Victoria would purloin him from Tasmania
without scruple if a new bishopric for the
South-West were created, so high an opinion
did it form of him when he was here a few
months ago.
Mrs. R. G. Shuter, pictured by Spencer
Shier, has been put on the-Advisory Com-
mittee of the Canteen Trust Fund. This
fund holds the surplus moneys resulting from
A.I.F. canteen-trad-
ing in Eju rope,
Egypt, Australia and
on troopships. Those
entitled t o receive
help from this-source
are war widows and
orphans, widowed
mothers and other
immediate depen-
dants of dead and
seriously - disabled
Diggers. On the
Advisory Committee
Mrs. Shuter repre-
sents the Friendly
Union o f Soldiers’
Wives and Mothers,
of which Mrs. Sell-
heim is the presi-
dent. The work has
been growing instead of diminishing with
the end of the war. One responsibility is
the awarding of scholarships given by public
schools and colleges for -the children of sol-
diers. The committee wants to also get
help for wives and children of missing sol-
diers—men who have just disappeared from
the face of things. These (there is an un-
suspected number of them) are in a piti-
able position, as they don’t come definitely
within the ambit of any of the present
soldier-help agencies.
Mrs. G. R. Grieve, of Sylvania, who passed
out at a private hospital in Sydney the other
day, was the eldest daughter of Robert
Caldwell, a member of the Vic. Assembly
from 185,9 to 1861, when the House was try-
ing to find its legs. Few are now living
who remember her as Emma Caldwell.
Australia’s very first Aero Club Ball goes
round at St. Kilda Town Hall on August 27.
Louise Dyer cabled out 'to mother to open
up Torryburn (the Dyer house which is now
in holland -covers) and give her brother,
Dr. L. L. Smith, the birthday % party of his
life. Everybody jazzed, and Mayoress Stem
cut the birthday cake. Kirby, Claude. Hall
and the Patterson girls made up a music
programme. The widow L. L. Smith, mother
of the young doctor, put on the gorgeous
gown she wore at her Court presentation.
Douglas Reid, son of the late George, who
left Australia as Watt’s private sec., is back
again. He could a tale unfold; but the
discreet young man is too well versed in
official ways to unfold anything—much less
a spicy political tale.
The smartest costume at the Gaud Mayor's
latest shivoo was a jangling, glistening
black-sequined creation. The dashing wearer
was a sylph from a Bourke-street drapery.
With the costume went a ruby velvet wrap,
an escort and a taxi. The rag firm appa-
rently did its sales-lady proud. And she
reciprocated.
Italian Consul-General Grossardi and his
wife have started housekeeping out Haw-
thorn way. This time Australia has received
a Consul of the diplomat class; but he is
finding it no easy job to straighten out
things at his consulate. A good-looker in
the best Italian way, he is an interesting
talker, and is helped socially by a charming
wife.
Kitchin Kerr, a 1914 Anzac who was a
prisoner of war in Turkey for 31 years, is
bringing out a book of' stories and bald facts
that should be interesting. Kerr, pictured
here by Ruth Rol-
lick, was sent \to
work with the gangs
on the Bagdad rail-
way, just where
they are fighting at
present. But he
was wounded, lame
and a nervous
wreck, and the fear-
some tunnel section
was wearing the
captive out, so they
transferred him to a
sub-clerkship. His
knowledge of lan-
guages and capacity
for organisation
pushed him eventu-
ally into a boss-job,
where he had con-
trol of the paying and rationing of 1000
men. It was a remarkable collection that
he had to deal with, and he modestly insists
that his yarns are merely rough impressions
of the raw facts of his experience.
State |Minister McWhae, who with his
wife and daughter has been doing “the East,”
and having real adventures of the type the
cinema fakes, is expected in Melbourne next
week, after coming overland from Queens-
land.
Adelaide on the social watch-tower: —
The anniversary of Britain’s entry into the Great
War was celebrated by an impressive laying of the
foundation-stone of the Women’s Memorial Cross.
The day was cold and showery, but after noon
about 1500 white-clad women—mothers, wives and
sisters of dead soldiers —marched from Victoria-
square down to Pennington-terrace Gardens, carry-
ing flowers and small purple bags containing their
contributions to the funds. His Ex. and Lady
Weigall arrived at 1.30, there was a short devo-
tional service, the Governor tapped ,the foundation-
stone, and then the women laid their violets on the
spot where the Cross of Sacrifice is to be. The
simple but perfect memorial has been designed by
Sir Reginald Blomfield, R.A.
On ljriday the women wardvorkers marched again
in equally unpleasant weather to draw attention
to the opening of the Peace Loan campaign.
The Mesopotamia crisis has a special interest for
the friends of Alec Bagot, who are anxiously watch-
ing the approach of the rebels on Bagdad. His
young wife, who hoped to join him there shortly,
is living at Woodville, where the popular young
people formed the centre of a very cheery set.
On Saturday last a cheery crowd proceeded to
Morphett Vale to a meet of the Adelaide Hounds.
Less than 20 hunted; but the road contingent was
large, and the Wakefields, who entertained them, had
a house full.
The residents of Unley have established a Garden
of Honor in their suburb in memory of fallen
soldiers. His Ex. visited it on Saturday to unveil
a captured German gun presented by the 27th Bat-
talion. Lady Weigall, who wore a striking costume,
bought largely at the stalls dotted round the garden.
The latest Rhodes scholar has been selected—
H. E. Coomb, a brilliant young student from the
Teachers’ Training College. But there is a feeling
that students who served with the A.I.F. should have
a prior claim for the next three years.
The Conservatorium’s violin, ’cello and organ reci-
tal had to be postponed owing to Harold Parsons’s
illness; but Moiseiwitsch’s recitals have provided
entertainment for the greediest music-lover. Clara
Serena made her first appearance since her return
from a tour in Asia at a concert given in con-
junction with the Adelaide Glee Club. The house
was crowded. Husband Roy Mellish accompanied,
wearing an amazing mop of hair.
Dorothy Macdonald, one of Adelaide’s prettiest
war-workers, is just back after two years’ toil in
France. And now she wants to send material for
mattresses for the poor old people who have been
streaming back to their devastated villages and
farms.
Benno Moiseiwitsch, who came back from Perth
by train, found a good piano on the express. “I
have played in many extraordinary places,” he said,
“but never in a train before.” At a small wayside
station he successfully attacked the ‘Tannhauser”
overture for the benefit of the inhabitants —about
half a dozen. At Port Augusta he was handed a
souvenir—the shoe of a mule—and it started him
thinking.
Governor Weigall has horrified Adelaide Sassietv
by stating that the war swept away the barriers
between the classes and the masses, and that “so far
as my wife and I are concerned we want to do all
we can to keep those barriers where the war left
them.” Moreover, at a reception to the police-force
Lady Weigall genially remarked that “The men must
be dry,” and ordered a menial to “Bring the beer
at once.” Yes, Adelaide is horrified.
The Bed Cross Record, a magazine edited by
Mrs. Fisher and circulated amongst S.A. war-
workers, is to be financed by a company of Sas-
siety women and called the Women's Record.
Mrs. Fisher will continue to edit it, and the Misses
Hilda Burden, A. Miethke, Mary Kitson and E.
Jackson, M.A., will be on the directorate. The
other sex will be allowed to print the production,
but that's all.
Margaret McLean is off to Sydney with
a selection of. pictures—other people’s pic-
tures —under her arm. The works of art
will be shown this month, and will be worth
looking at. There are some fine Streetons.
and Mclnnes is also represented.
Treasury-Secretary Collins, who is trying
to do a little of the work that Watt went to
London to do, is listening to a long tale of
woe from Commonwealth officials at Austra-
lia House. Seemingly it has never con-
cerned Andy Fisher how they fared. Just
lately they have fared so sadly that several
are out on the hunt for commercial jobs
where the pay is more likely to procure
visible means of support.
When “The Byes of Youth” finishes at
the King’s, Emelie Polini will retire to her
little N. S. Wales farm with her hubby, Hal
Ellis, for at least 12 months. At the end
of that time she talks of returning
stage at the head of her own company. The
party is expected to coruscate first in
S’Africa, and later on Australia and Asia
will probably get a chance to be astounded.
It is small disparagement of Australian
gii'ls lately introduced to grand opera under
J.C.W. auspices to say that none of them
show the same individuality on the stage as
the Miranda sisters who had to go to Europe
to get their chances. Lalla Miranda, the
elder sister, despite the handicap of bad
health, had a prima donna position for years
in Brussels and Holland, and she made at
least one appearance at Covent Garden
during the season. Beatrice Miranda, who
left Melbourne for England some 20 years
ago, was a smashing fine girl, taller than
Lalla. She got an engagement with the Carl
R&sa Co. when it was in somewhat low
water, and is now star member of that once
more flourishing concern. The Quinlan
Opera Co., with which Lalla came to Aus-
tralia at the time “Tales of Hoffman” was
first produced, is no longer hanging together,
but the Carl Rosa organisation plays two or
three seasons a year in London. In May,
when “Jewels of the Madonna” was pro-
duced for the second time, Beatrice Miranda
played the heroine, and the same week she
sang the amorous lady’s part in “Tristan and
Isolde.” The Mirandas, like Melba before
them, owed none of their operatic opportuni-
ties to the land of their birth. It is only
since “Castles” became a good name to trade
with, on account of its concert-platform
notoriety, that local talent has not been dis-
couraged in grand opera. Now that the
girls are getting chances it is up to them to
work as Melba and the Mirandas worked
abroad.
“The Mikado” wasn’t exactly rushed by
the Naicest people on Saturday, but yester-
day’s admirers of G. and S. opera came in
force. Geoffrey Syme occupied the usual
d.c. pen with part of his family, and next
door were palatial Amy Castles and sister
Dolly, whose thatch looks like the reflection
of a ripe harvest. Stolid Amy was dressed
in dark blue and black, but Dolly held the
inquisitive glasses with her cobalt frock.
The Tallises faced the Symes on the other
side, and below was the Wenman family in
its best furs. The appearance of the John
Taits in the adjoining box showed that the
recent business alliance is being cemented
in a social way. The entente has encour-
aged the hope that Hughes and Mannix may
yet be camp-mates.
From Adelaide creeps the story that
Prince Edward favors dressing-gowns of
pastel shades. A young thing who has the
envy of every Melbourne flapper met H.R.H.
on the way to a bathroom, and without rais-
ing her modest eyes she saw his gown of pink.
Old Girton girls—of Bendigo, not England
—are getting together to welcome home Mrs.
Faithful Davis, who in days of hopscotch
used to answer to Olive Murphy. She has
been in England with the Rev. Faithful for
the past 10 years, and has brought two
young FaithfuLs with her.


PIPDPIMI
■■ - -
sd
> s V < ~A l.'i . * »
mm * V s ;• . * -
■';:■•:■
••-••••-••-
"
x,
:
r
llii
* w~
;x
.
.
I*
K
'
-X/
X
■■ :.:;■■■ .: V. x ! ' '
.
■HU
' ' - 1
r : - ■":
m
m
i -•
■■
■
■ : :
: :
l»- WmS# 48$. v: lt :m I
;
■
a ,v
. :*s:
w
111
Jpr 5
.
X
X
I
£
r*j
: X^
gss*
H
«
•: &
: ■-■
. I ...
.
XX : ■
, X
: .
XXX'
mmm
ill
I mm,
mIBmL
/
,
■ I ■. n
IliiliiPHffi
XXX.
X
■ : :
..
ii
. >
|!!l|il;iilix;HX::;:
':;.X.x::X; :'X~.
ik**?. i‘l
x .. X.vX .
MB
.
■n
I
f
.
x: XX; .-
,
XX
'
....
. xx
lsm m
• '
' X X' '
X
. X :: :■.'•
.
x
.'■x' v :
- '''&&
:
o
& 1;' S
1
I
PROVED THE HEAVIEST AND MOST SUBSTANTIAL TYRE
The more there is "built in” a tyre the better the service that comes out.
Actual tests on the Scales prove that Perdriau. Tyres contain from 12 per cent,
to 33 per cent, more rubber and canvas than the other leading tyres. Perdriau Tyres are only
heavier tyres; they are also bigger tyres and their extra size, ensures maximum riding comfort,,
whilst the extra weight in Perdriau Tyres means extra mileage on the road. Compaie the ‘weights.
MANUFACTURED BY PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. SYDNEY :: MELBOURNE :: BRISBANE :: ADELAIDE
'©Aw »*S


Under
Royal
Warrant-
m
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
r
mains
if
■nJßSr''
champachc
'iarksHeidsico^
REIMS
■^nvmartC?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
WONDER-WILKIN
Batteries.
Manufactured locally from the highest
quality materials—and priced at a
moderate figure—the “WONDER-
MILKIN’’ already has many friends
amongst the motoring public.
They appreciate the value offered—so
will you eventually. Why not inquire
from your Garage to-day?
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.,
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
gsvdr
Vanity
Fair Silk
Gloves—the popular selec-
tion of women who demand
the best the market affords,
or who consider REAL
economy.
Guaranteed for double
wear, you get longer service
from Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves, or replacement free.
Your draper should have
them. Ask for them.
V.F. 24
r vanity r faiv
The Flowers that Bloom
SPRING, weaving her gay garland
of flowers, finds a serious rival
in Shave. For Shave designers
and craftsmen are busy creating
beautiful things wherewith to adorn
those who love the finest raiment. ,
Added pleasure is given by the elimi-
nation of tiresome fittings which
Shave skill makes possible.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centre-way,
Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Essie Jenyns, the greatest actress Austra-
lia has produced, in whom Juliet and Desde-
raona and Rosalind lived and breathed
their romance for Australian audiences in
the ’eighties and ’nineties, came home early
this year to die. To the end, which arrived
on Friday, she retained the charm and the
grace which made her the beloved of her
audiences in the long ago. Her voice was
an exquisite joy of rich modulations, and
the finely-shaped head was more clearly dis-
played these latter days by the cropped hair.
Her one desire after she reached Sydney
was to return to Newcastle to have the
kindergarten there re-opened, for the care of
little children enthralled her. She filled
her days with gracious acts, and exhaled as
much sweetness through her world as the be-
ribboned and embroidered lavender-bags
which she was so fond of giving to her
friends.
All the world knows that in real life she
was Mrs. J. R. Wood, and when at the
height of her fame she was married at St.
Andrew’s literally thousands poured into the
Cathedral and the streets to see the bride.
So eager was the crowd in the church that
pews and pot-plants were smashed in the
crush, and the bill for breakages was start-
ling. Her father was Dr. Jennings, of
Mary River, Queensland, and her stepfather
actor-manager W. J. Holloway, for whom she
made a modest fortune in three years.
Probably Dick Stewart, of Her Majesty’s,
is the only one remaining in Australia who
acted with Essie Jenyns in a Shakspearean
production; he took part with her in “As
You Like It.”
When at a shivoo at Manning House last
week Dr. Constance D’Arcy presented Mrs.
Wilson with a Will Ashton picture, in recog-
nition of her hospitality to the students of
her Professor’s class, she told the story of
how Louisa Macdonald asked Wilson to hold
an anatomy class for the women art-students.
Only one joined it —Miss Salomons, a
daughter of the late Julian Salomons. One
day, when the Professor was chaffed more
than usual about his class for art-students,
he settled the matter by announcing “I’m
going to marry my class.” And he did.
The staff of the Uni. gave Professor and
Mrs. Wilson the glad hand in the Great Hall
of the Uni. on Friday evening. His Ex.
and Dame Margaret beamed on the show,
and Chancellor William Cullen handed Mrs.
Wilson a bead-bag holding a cheque for
£l5O. Prof. Wilson, who has been ap-
pointed to the chair of Anatomy at Cam-
bridge, sails with his family for London next
Saturday.
Kathleen Butcher, whose dad is one of the
extensively-acred sort, was the Royal favorite
in Perth. Kathleen is fair and small, not
exactly good-looking, but making up for any
irregularity in features by a twinkling expres-
sion. She followed up the Royal festivities
in Adelaide, where she stayed with Mrs.
Moulden, and bagged the Royal game again.
Mary Grant, in Queensland, did one bet-
ter, and flew after the Jazz Prince from
Brisbane to Toowoomba. She caught him
up, too, and once more received the cordial
eye.
A hilarious coo-ee comes from the
gaily-decorated dining-room of Lennon’s
pub, where everybody gave dinner-parties
during Brisbane’s Prince week, and
the old outback methods of letting
your neighbor know you are having a
good time were all indulged in—toasting,
cheering, singing and even lifting the tables
high over heads, while scandalised waiters
looked on and thanked God that the break-
ages would not be taken off their wages.
It has been voted as exciting as old polo-
carnival times. Dancing, of course, evei;y
night, only a savage blare of the jazz hav-
ing power to draw the joymakers from the
tables. On Saturday complaints were made
to the management about a waiter and
waitress who were dancing among the social
butterflies; but when a stern emissary from
the office arrived hot upon the trail the err-
ing ones were found to be Mrs. Henry Hill
Osborne and Jack Pain from Melbourne.
Mrs. Whittingham’s ball at Mayfield was
a brilliant affair.* A ballroom was built on
the tennis court, the interior decorated with
draped silk in brown and yellow ; everywhere
mirrors let into the walls and orange-trees
in tubs laden with fruit. After supper the
ballroom became more like a boys’ school on
the day before vacation. It'all started with
the original, almost aboriginal, Brisbane joke
of the men pulling each other’s tie off.
This appealed to Edward P. as an enormous
jest: he joined madly in the fun, and went
home without any tie at all.
Mary Grant, daughter of General Grant,
a slim and good-looking girl, was the Prince’s
pick of the Queensland rosebud garden.
Unlike most of his Sydney partners, Mary
refused to dance in silence, and simply
bubbled over with chatter. Her wit was evi-
dently up to the level of that of Court
circles, for Teddy’s laugh became a serial.
The Coochin visit was voted “top-hole,” in
spite of the rain on the previous Saturday,
which made the black soil hard to negotiate;
but all who were invited faced the perils and
turned up at the party.
Mrs. Jack Mowbray Thomson, of Wick-
ham-terrace, has been a strikingly-suceessful
hostess of the season. Her dances were the
impromptu promptings of high spirits and
light feet. Rumors of the great fun reached
H.R.H., who listened wistfully from behind
a hedge of formal engagements to the reports
that Lord Claude Hamilton brought back
with him. He sent word to ask if he
mightn’t come one night; but the hedge was
too thick, and he couldn’t make a hole big
enough to get through.
May Moore has made this picture of
Isi a Blomfield, who aims a simultaneous
blow at H.C.L. and the indigestion pill and
potion by the introduction of the Communal
Chop. The idea is
to establish a kitchen
in connection with
all the Baby Wel-
fare centres, where
working mothers
and fathers may
bring along the
family and get a good
and nourishing meal
at the cost of a few
pence. It is impos-
sible, as Miss Blom-
field points out, for
a woman to work
all day in a factory
or office and then
come home, cook a
strengthening meal,
and complete all
the household duties
her better-off sisters have the whole day
to attend to. In connection with the Com-
hunal Kitchens —when they get started —
will be an outdoor service ; that is, business
girls and men who live in flats or rooms
may call at the kitchen on their homeward
way and carry off their dinner in a three-
tier container—to be warmed up on arrival
at the gas-griller. Miss Blomfield thinks
that no really well-fed person is a sincere
Bolshevik; and we have it on H. G. Wells’s
word that a perfectly stupendous internal
revolution went on in the interior of even
the mild Mr. Polly after the suet-puddings
his missus served to him.
Brisbane chases the flying hours: —
The Shakspeare ball and pageant was held in John
Bridge’s wool-store at Bulimba. Trim hedges, with an
un-Shakspearean scent of gum-leaves, divided the ball-
and supper-rooms. The supper tables were decked
with sweet-peas, and peach-blossoms were in the
Prince’s special vases. Shakspaare’s cottage—fur-
nished in silky-oak!—was the Royal roost, and the
staff were made free of Anne Hathaway’s little den.
Large parti-colored lanthorns hung from the roof,
and the pillars were made into gum-trees for the
occasion. Aid. Whatmore and his daughter led the
qjarch, dad being Shakspeare, and daughter Susannah
(no, not the Biblical lady—William’s daughter).
Farmer Whyte, of the Daily Mail, handed over a
cheque for £lOOO, which H.R.H. will pass on to
the Bursary Fund people, and Susannah bestowed a
fine copy of “the Works” on the guest.
The costumes were magnificent, Mrs. A. Moyes
wearing the most scrumptious. She was Cleopatra,
in gold gauze and a great head-dress of peacock’s
feathers. There was another Anthony and Cleopatra
set; but the lady in this case evidently remembered
that someone had referred to Cleo as “the Serpent
of the Nile,” and her snaky glide down the hall
was a thing of joy.
Saturday morning saw the Princeling and his suite
making fof Boonah. He stopped at Ipswich, where
he had a rousing reception, and visited various
other country centres on the way. In spite of the
pouring rain people rode and drove in to the line
from miles out. After the official welcome at
Boonah he motored to Coochin, where he put in
three days, learning how to crack a stockwhip and
watching the mustering.
The proposed visit to Mrs. William Collins’s sta-
tion, near Beaudesert, was washed out by the rain.
It was hard luck for Mrs. Collins, who had built
a new wing on to her home for the event; but
the other guests turned up to the dinner and dance,
Mrs. Whittingham and Mrs. A. Feez travelling per
aeroplane, and thus avoiding the mud.
Nineteen out of every 20 women wore tailor-mades
to the last kick of the Carnival meeting at Ascot on
Saturday. The Lieut.-Governor and Mrs. Lennon
were there, Mrs. L. E. Groom in amethyst cloth,
Mrs. E. J. Watt (Sydney) in navy serge, Mrs. T. J.
Ryan wearing a tailored suit of henna-colored cloth,
and Mrs. Jack Fihelly in mole, with a cream floral-
patterned waistcoat.
Tuesday was the Diggers’ night. Over 3000 of
them, with a good sprinkling of army nurses and
women war-workers, were at the smoke-oh at Winch-
combe- Carson's wool store. It was an unorthodox
party. “Teddy” was greeted with loud cheers and
“He’s a jolly good fellow.” Jlrig.-Gen. Cannan pro-
posed his health, and gave him an emu egg, beauti-
fully carved, in a casket of Bananaland wood. The
Brisbane Girls’ Club sent him an address to pass
on to Sister Mary, and Langley Simmons thrust two
flags into the hands of the Brisbane’s commander.
Major Wynyard Joss and Lieuts. Bird and Butler
gave a big blue sapphire from Anakie.
Mrs. W. H. Groom, mother of L. E. Groom, M.P.,
a lady of 83, whose keen sense of humor and shrewd
grasp of affairs has not faded with the years, met
Edward P. on the Toowoomba station and had a
yarn with him.
The matrons’ dance for the Prince is
arranged to take place within a few nights
of his return to Sydney. The Paddington
Town Hall will be approached by miles of
barriers. Thirty matrons drop £3O each into
the hat to give the Boy- Who Has Always
Had Everything a night that he will forget
before a week is past. And in the basement
of the Town Hall machines lie idle for want
of women’s hands to guide them in fashioning
garments for the Little Boy Who Has Never
Had Anything.
Ola Jane Humphrey, dauntless in matri-
mony, is to marry Jack Broadwood. He is
the elder son of “Swish” Broadwood, a
well-known sporting man-about-London of
the ’nineties, and a member of the big piano
firm. Ola first met him in Australia a dozen
years ago, when she was starring with Julius
Knight. She was then Mrs. Edwin Mor-
dant. Following on her divorce from Mor-
dant, who was an actor, she espoused an
Egyptian prince bearing the good old panto-
mime name of Ilassan. Hassan turned out
a complete and unadulterated blighter. So
she fled, and was on the verge of divorcing
him when, to the relief of everybody, he died.
His fortune of four million dollars, torn
from the abject and suffering fellaheen of the
Nile banks at the point of the knob-kerry,
has passed to Ola. The prospective hus-
band served in the Duke of Cornwall’s Light
Infantry during the Big War.
On Friday afternoon John McCormack
gave the most successful concert of his sea-
son. At 3 o’clock to the minute, when
John made his greeting, the Recreation Hall
at the Randwick Hospital was a seething
mass of excitement. Boys in cots and in
invalid-chairs had the places of vantage, and
behind them stretched row after row of
rather shabby khaki, brightened here and
there by the red capes of the sisters and
the white of the V.A.’s. Not that all the
sisters and the Y.A.’s were within; many
of them took their chances with the crowded-
out Digger who made solid blocks in the door-
ways. The overflow from the doorways deco-
rated the railings of the verandah, and heard
beautifully.
There was no set programme. The boys
just called out for what fhey wanted; but
one went disappointed, for he wanted “Abe,
Abe, My Boy!” and John hasn’t learned
that yet. The evergreen “Mother Machree”
and “I Hear You Calling Me” were loudly
demanded, and when John threw in as an
extra “Pal o’ Mine,” one of the V.A.’s in
the doorway suddenly crumbled into her
hankie. Matron Kellett got her bonne
bouche when John sang “God Save.”
Among the listeners was . Sapper liealy,
the first case the hospital received from
Gallipoli. Auto-suggestion promises to cure
him; the other day he sat up (with sup-
port) for the first time in the long years.
Another who listened with delight was the
matron of a hospital ship that was bombed.
She will never walk again without assist-
ance. Mrs. McCormack, brother James, ac-
companist Schneider and manager
McSweeney supported John; and Matron
Kellett (unsupported by any other of the
staff) entertained the visitors at tea.
In Darlinghurst, just around the corner
from Oxford-street, a grey stone building
stands aloof, as though listening to the
rustle of the wings outspread above its
doorway. For this is the Hospice for the
Dying, over which the Angel of Death
hovers always. Not a dreary place is the
Hospice, for here lives the Great Hope, and
kindly hands have made the last little
stage of the journey bloom with the roses of
comfort and love. It is as non-sectarian
as Death —all that it asks from its guests
is that they be poor and dying; all that
it asks from you is help and remembrance.
Its treasury is almost empty, so it wants
you to do all you can for a ball which is to
take place on October 11 in the Paddington
Town Hall to replenish its coffers.
Artist Tom Roberts, whose fine show
opens this week in Anthony Horderns’ gal-
lery, is back after many years, and revel-
ling in the glow and warmth of Sydney. In
London his town studio is in Sloane-street,
and it has, he declares, the light he has
always dreamed about. His other workshop
is attached to his home on Holder’s Green.
Tom is painting only one portrait in Aus-
tralia this time—that of Miss Clarke, who
tor so many years, ran one of the most suc-
cessful schools in the State.
Mary Evelyn Proud, eldest daughter of
the late W. B. Proud and Mrs. Proud, of
Centennial Park, has promised to soon
marry I oster Hartley Sargent, only child of
Mrs. George Sargent, of Rose Bay. Bride-
groom-elect fought the Hun, was taken
prisoner and released at the Armistice.
While he did his bit abroad Ma did hers at
home, mothering battalion comforts funds
and soldiers’ widows and orphans. Bride-
to-be combines good looks with smart dress-
ing.
Cupid took sure aim at Phyllis Evelyn,
only chick of the Neville Maymans, and
Stuart Maxwell Deans, of the 16th Lancers,
on board the Orontes, which arrived
in Sydney from London lately. Bride-
groom-to-be is 24, hails from Maori-
land, was trained at Sandhurst, and
gave a good account of himself at the
war. He’s on six months leave and later re-
joins his regiment in Egypt. Phyllis, who is
only 19, had got into some Sydney news-
papers even before she had left the school-
room. Mr. Mayman, who was for many years
president of the Benevolent Society, returns
with a head full of information about infant-
welfare work done abroad.
The little flower-maker of Paris may no
longer make Montmartre more joyous with
her near-silk legs, Government having-
prohibited the importation into France of
fibre- and imitation-silk hosiery. With the
decline of the sleek calf the kingdom of the
knee-length skirt must topple with a crash,
for even the message-girl of Paris and the
young woman who carries home the crisp
laundry would scorn the display of a long
length of cotton leg. Long skirts or legs-of-
Eve are the alternative, unless Paris to a
woman likes to follow the hennaed footsteps
of Mrs. Frank Jay Gould, who has gone
back to her stage dancing since Frank (son
of old Jay) divorced her in Paris. Mrs.
Gould (Edith Kelly) has been changed from
a natural blonde to a dusky gold by the use
of henna once a month from head to heel. It
gives her the look of a newly-minted penny.
She was lately rehearsing for a stage appear-
ance in London. She wears neither tights
nor stockings—says she can’t afford to buy
silk ones, and, anyhow, it gives her the
chance to display the charm of hennaed limbs.
The bare leg has arrived and is walking
about Paris, Mrs. Freddie Shipman writes.
Many hennaed, all shaved, and quite charm-
ing. Freddie has contracted for some fine
films, and expects to have an all-French
vaudeville company to open in India towards
the end of the year.
Here is M. P. (Margot) Holden, who is
exhibiting three sculptured animal studies in
the Royal Art Society’s Show, of which
“The Greyhound’’ has been bought by the
Art Gallery. Miss
Holden’s w ork i s
full of life and free-
dom —for which the
artist gives thanks
to Dattilo Rubbo,
of whom she was a
pupil 10 years ago.
when Miss Chapman
also was in her
student days. In
1910 Miss Holden
went to London and
studied at the Frank
Calderon school of
animal-painting, in
Kensington, her par-
ticular teacher being
Cecil Brown, the
modelling master. At
the beginning of the
war Miss Holden threw herself into war-
work, and was on duty at the Anzac Buffet
until it closed. The Nestor brought her
home seven weeks ago.
The Choral Society, under Conductor
Gooud, raised its voice in unaccompanied
song on Saturday night to a packed Town
Hall. John Lemmone turned his flute most
sweetly; Ella Caspers, like a radiant butter-
fly in a dress all golden-tissue frills, with one
of the new waist bows, poured out her
creamy notes in “O Peaceful England :
and Rosa Alba, in white satin, showed
her sparkling soprano in “Le Perle du
Bresil” and hugged her presentation Queen
Anne posy to a pleased breast. Ella went
home with an armful of flowers, and Lois,
Lemmone and Formes bore off a laurel wreath
apiece. But it’s a pity, in these H.C.L.
times, that the custom of presenting a popu-
lar singer with a nice colly or a couple of
head of cabbage couldn’t be introduced.
Jean Drummond made a startlingly good
first appearance on Saturday night with the
orchestra. Her voice is of the dramatic
soprano family, and is of a strength and
power that gets no support from the slim-
ness of her ankles. Her delighted family
radiated warmth through the Conservator-
ium, and Jean, who lives in the midst of a
flower-garden, received a mountain of floral
tributes.


- ££
r
fßfcaS
if®
Jf,, •*
I! d f.
temco
it
V.
Texaco assures
engine confidence
When you get into your car, with a hard run ahead, have you
perfect confidence in getting there and back without meeting
engine trouble on the road?
Correct lubrication is the one big factor behind engine confi-
dence. An oil of inferior quality or incorrect body simply
invites a series of engine troubles when you least expect them.
Smooth, continuous running, no matter how hot the pace, is
assured by using Texaco Motor Oil. It never breaks down
under the strain of a protracted run. It preserves the seal
between pistons and cylinder walls at all times, and prevents
loss of power and waste of spirit.
There is a Grade of Texaco Motor Oil to suit the requirements
of every make of car, truck or cycle. Ask your garage to give
you the right grade of Texaco, or send for Lubrication Chart,
which is Post Free from
The Texas Company (Australasia), Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Newcastle, Perth, Hobart, Launceston.
South Aus. Agents: Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
TEXACO
MOTOR OILS
K. 319
m
m
We s tclo x-Jack o Lantern
The blacker the night,
the brighter Jack o’Lan-
tern’s hands and numerals
show.
The radium compound
furnishes the light, a glow
that lasts for years, making
Jack o’Lantern a night
clock as well as a day clock
and a punctual alarm as
well.
Westclox on the dial is
ample assurance of quality
and accuracy.
Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 15/-; America, 10/6;
Jack o'Lantern, 22/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 20/-;
Boyproof, 12/6
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
Sygi!
AUTOTONE,
a:
ESTEY.
J
VICTOR.
A Wonderful Array of
PLAYER PIANOS.
SELECTED by our experts after years of
exhaustive enquiries and careful testing,
our Player Pianos are unrivalled for
Construction, Tonal Quality, Climatic Durability
and Simplicity. Our 68 years’ experience as
Tone Specialists and our Leading Position in the
Music World enable us to place these instruments
before you.
Each Player Has a Distinctive Feature.
All these Player Pianos possess the following essential features:—
Transposing Device—Easy Pedalling System—Phrasing Levers—
Automatic Tracking Device—Silencer Button—Climate-proof
Tubing.
ART CATALOGUES AND PRICE LIST WILL BE POSTED FREE
gsd
358 George St., Sydney.
And at BRISBANE—NEWCASTLE,
TOOWOOMBA—LISMORE—ROCKHAMPTON.
LAFF ARGUE.
: :
REGAL.


:c
jWajj
he largest se llirtg
quality pencil in
ihe world
VENUS
V PENCILS
g
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Learn to Draw
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
TTi
The above .
is the title'
of our book- •
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of thi3
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
225 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
GRIP GRIP
TYRE REPAIR OUTFIT.
Every Car Should Carry One.
Large. Medium. Special Ford. Motor Cycle.
7/6 5/- 4/- 37-
Makes a permanent repair.
Reduces your tyre bill because vulcanising is un-
necessary.
Made specially for the Australian climate by
Australians.
Sold Everywhere.
Manufactured by
STANDARD MOTOR SUPPLIES,
17 Burns Street, Sydney.
We Desire
to Buy
sdvf
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.,
SYDNEY.
For Sale.
“WOLSELEY” 24-30 H.P. SIX CYLINDER.
THE condition of this magnificent seven-
passen&er car is as new, both mechani-
cally and its body. The car is fitted with
Yicker’s patent self-starter and tyre inflater,
C.A.Y. electric-lighting system, five Rudge-
Whitworth wire wheel.*’ seat covers, painted
royal blue, nickel fittings, and every .luxury
that can be fitted to a car. The machine
has only run 8000 miles, and the owner will
be pleased to submit it to any expert
examination, guaranteeing its condition as
new all over. The price asked is £750, no
offers. Cars like this are not made to-day,
and are unprocurable, and this is the hand-
somest and most luxurious car in the country.
Apply to Mr. MITCHELL,
27 Church Street, Randwick.
Or ring Tel. City 6675.
You Will Not Know Real Comfort
m
Hi
1 HKBMi
:
■H
Ax
Comfortable as
an Old Shoe.
Until You Ride in
The “Longreach.”
Right from the jump the “Longreach” is
comfortable, and needs no long breaking-in
period to make riding a pleasure. In this
saddle the flap is seamed direct on to the
seat, doing away with the usual skirt and
giving a narrow, non-chafing grip. The pads
are a deviation from the usual shape, and are
set high up almost level with the head of
saddle and along the rider’s thighs, giving
perfect security. The leather used is nice,
flexible kip, and the fittings are folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l5/15/-
Freight Free for Cash with
Order to any N.S.W. Port or
Station on N.S.W. Railway
System.
SEND YOUR HEIGHT AND WEIGHT.
Horse-Hair Saddle-cloths Just Arrived.
HORSE-HAIR COVERED WITH FEET, 35/-. POST FREE FOR CASH.
WRITE FOR OUR FINE SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
393 George St., Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .• £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurtea.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15«6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
PRE-WAR
PRICE
RINGS.
Ruby ana Diamond
Ring, set in pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £B/8/-
The rings we speak of are made from
diamonds bought at pre-war prices—less than
half present prices. They were set originally
in jewellery that got out of fashion, and so
were broken up, and the. genis set in the
latest Ring settings.
They have been mounted in off times, and so
the rings come out at one-half prevailing
ordinary prices.
Following our usual rule, we are giving our
customers the advantages of the pre-war buying.
Some of these Rings are shown in our win-
dows, and will be found a revelation of wonder-
ful values.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 g 25 Hunter Street.
Good Humor.
We have often heard of the way to a
man’s heart. The way to his good
humor is through the smoke clouds
puffed contentedly from a
THE PERFECT PIPE.
Many shapes.
London made.
Sold everywhere.
Motor-car Steel.
Motor engineers demand the best steel for Motor-cars, and there is
no better steel for this purpose than our
5.D.16 Special Nickel Steel
(TO CASE HARDEN).
The purposes for which it is specially suitable: gear wheels, gudgeon pins,
sliding, counter and cardon shafts, ball races and all small stampings.
In stock, rounds, to lOin. diameter.
Prices promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
*®tE ON ►
THE EAGLE (El GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., Sydney.
261 Katrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
Jolm Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul and Gray, JLtd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins anil Co., ltd., Adelaide.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address hast appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily . submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A. Garry: But what has the number of
death sentences passed on Tommy soldiers got to do
with conscription in Australia ? The death penalty
wasn’t allowed in the Australian Army, and wouldn’t
have been in any case. It did apply to Irish recruits,
by the way; and they were volunteers.... Bimbashi:
Too much like something that has been done before.
. ...1.R.M.: “Moon-Kisses” gets pretty c105e....
W.E.K.: You have formed a good resolution. There
is color, hut not enough skill. That may come
with study and practice. .. .Biddy R.: “The Stay-
ing Way” won’t d 0... .P.R.A.: No use.... Roy R.:
Bad verse which leaves even the meaning obscure.
.... Hekatoa: Good color ; but not enough skill. Try
your hand on something less ambitious.... Alan B.:
“Bush” too long for the interest... .E.S.: (1) You've
guessed it. Can’t afford the space to record the fate
of pars. (2) Jones sent someone this cryptic letter:
“The paschal lamb is prepared. Where is the mint
sauce?”... .E.F.W.: Commonplace both in thought
and in manner... .R.G.S.: If you want to be heard
you must have something to say. All that is old
stuff, and only middling verse... .Will J.: “The
Sweetness that Lingers” is rubbish all right... .L.P.:
It’s not up, but we’ve known much worse things to
be said about the wattle... .Wattle Blossom: “Road”
verse is corduroy and lapses into commonplace....
E.H. (North Adelaide): Good enough of its kind,
but it doesn’t glue the mind to the subject....
R.H. (Enmore) : Nearly, but not quite. Now what
can a “flood of cadence” mean?... .G.H.W.: Drab
flatness in poor verse. .. .C.R. (Wollongong): You
know how- to make verse. Now make it say some-
thing R.A.S. (Wellington) : Not good enough
Ina: “Jonquils” has feeling, but it takes the old,
foot-worn way of aspiration after Heaven. The
other verse is p00r.... Nell T.: “Radium” doesn’t
make a yarn... .Harry P.: “Boomerang” no good.
•... . Bellerive: “Fireside Inspirations for Art’s Sake”
are a bit highly polished for us, but “Youth against
Prime” has all the old fire and force: —
T.B. (Sydney): We don’t republish; and if we
did that wouldn’t tempt us... . Matt R.: N 0....
Chris T.: Sonnet not up. “Arms” cannot rhyme
with “calms”.... C.D. (St. Kilda): “The Man in
the Moon” shocks us into printing this much: —
Whilst disrobing he openly viewed
' My limbs that were rounded and bare ;
For a moment I was in the nude,
But still he continued to stare.
When I put on a nightie like snow,
All threaded with ribbons of pink,
And jumped into bed —I don’t know,
But I fancy that I saw him wink.
.. . .8.8. H.: Not nearly. . . .M.H.S.: “Trigamist”
wants smarter handling and better finish. . . .Will
C.: “His Bloomin’ Quid” misses. The idea is
there, but easy verse of that sort deserves a rhyme
to each line. Let’s hear again.... Umbra: Quite
impossible to tell whether there is promise or not.
The verse says ordinary things in an ordinary way.
F.C.M.: It gets nowhere H.E.C.: Neither
the prose nor the verse strikes u 5.... Robbie: Both
subjects are good; see if you can’t handle them
better Frank W.: Not up Beaux Yeux: Verses
are not well enough done. How can you write
“I could call. thee. .. .hearing your voice?”....
W.M. (Bathurst): Very rugged Henry T.: Yon
ask “Shall we drink from the meek old cow’s udders
or spread God’s fire with our soul shudders?” Diffi-
cult to advise in such a case, but the cow seems
safer... .Juvenisenex: Sorry, but we don’t want it.
....A.C. (Dunlop): It doesn’t even resemble verse.
Harry H.: Not enough in the tragedy.... S.F.J.:
Nothing there A.8.C.: “Mirror” must go back.
....Kate O.: “Teamster’s Dog” is too lame to
qualify G.R.H.: Not up.... Lloyd S.: “William
B. Smith” humps too violently.... 5.R.8.: It isn’t
a telegram; why do you leave out the necessary
articles?. .. .M.A.M. (Canberra) : Excellently observed,
but not enough in it... . Grevillea: Far too many
words... .G.A.C.: Don’t like it... .F.A.S.: “Beach
Memories” don’t thrill us. .. . J.C. (Perth) : What
hope is there when you make “For her and I” the
refrain of serious verse ?. ... Sydney S.: Better not.
... .Delos: No, thanks. We should hate to be in gaol
during September and October.... Gri: Don’t know ;
but there is better reason to expect a decline in
metal goods than in foodstuffs and clothing. Dur-
ing the war production of metals was speeded up;
new plants were provided. And they must tell in
the near future.... Howdy: For a record like that
to have any value, place and date should be given,
so that the yarn may be verified.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
John Em: Some humor there. See if you can
improve your drawing... .Iv.U.F.: Your drunk is
beautifully trim and sober. .. .A.K.: Dustbin jest.
Other fails....R.H.L.: That chestnut seems to be
enjoying a hearty revival... .E. 8.5.: The bayoneted
Hun who asked the skewered Fritz in front to move
up has been interred long since... .M.O’C.: Regret
to say the ideas are feeble, and the drawings far
below print-1eve1.... Kookaburra: It didn’t raise a
cackle here. .. .F.K.H.: The bird cannot perch in
this paper.... A.F.: No good, Digger... .May Grove:
The parson looks like a Bolshevik, we cannot make
out your name, and the jest is shrouded in blots.
. ...T.0.C.: Have heard a male quartet bellowing
and squeaking that old Sunday fishing-story.
“A.T.” : Who says we have not got men
who can think into the future? At a friend’s
place the other night, young Jack, aged five,
after looking at his dad for a long while,
wanted to know if he would grow big and
strong, too. “I hope so, son,” said his dad.
“Then whose father will l be?” demanded
John, junior.
“Bildad”: Minister McGirr’s scheme by
which mothers are to receive 6s. a week for
each child after the second is good but
incomplete. A man should also receive an
allowance for each unmarried sister beyond
two. I have six myself, so you can guess
the size of the burden.
In the shade of the trees
From the glare of the sun
The spectators did crowd
And the contest begun.
As the axes did flash
And huge splinters flew out,
“Strike, Ned,” to the champ.
He’s supporters did shout.
For victory and honor
Aroused was he’s blood
Deep into the log sank
He’s axe with a thud.
By a physical lad he’s
Great record was broke —
’Twas youth against prime.
He was beat by a stroke.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Galines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
•'■’irate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 18,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Gor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . . . 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD Off ICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. . . . . ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ~ .. £200,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . £562,500
Reserve Fund .. . . . . .. 600,000
£1,162,500
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 62,500
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, August 19.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 16.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. TOFUA, from Wellington, September 16.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, October 5.
And every 28 days thereafter.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney Sept. 9 and Sept. 30.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
w
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
*4,765,700
3,275,000
4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
llobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
H0M.50 dV3H B
qj]Mouiuiop
gvsdvf
Janl^Bustralta
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
gvs
4k
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Maearthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping:.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS.
*Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parkci L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Coll Ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEV UK A,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES. —Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General i'or t Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. iv. 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messagenes Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian lioyal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, • Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Missing Friends.
GEORGE 3 NEWMAN, son of James and
Mary Newman, formerly of Hurst-
ville, later of Canley Vale. Money awaiting
your claim. Communicate
A. GILROY,
35 Day Street, Leichhardt.
JN the Estate of PETER McDONNELL,
late of Clermont, in the State of
Queensland. Miner, deceased.
The next of 1 kin of the abovenamed
deceased are requested to immediately com-
municate with the undersigned.
J. R. GAIR,
Deputy Public Curator,
Supreme Court. Rockhampton.
Executor of deceased’s will.
Legal Notices.
TO FRANK HARCOURT RATTON
EVANS, son of Alfred Evans, deceased
intestate, and formerly of Mangatoro, near
Dannevirke, New Zealand, and all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
stli day of July, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of December,
1920, your claim to the estate of Alfred
Evans, deceased, who died intestate at
Christchurch in New Zealand, on the 14th
day of January, 1912, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those
entitled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 7th day of
July, 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust.
Office, Wellington, N.Z.
TO BESSIE TAYLOR, wife of Charles
Philip Taylor, deceased intestate, and
formerly of Christchurch, New Zealand, and
all persons claiming by, through or under
her.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
sth day of July, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
liereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of December,
1920, your claim to the estate of Charles
Philip Taylor, deceased, who died intestate
at Christchurch, New Zealand, on the 15th
day of November, 1918, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled there to disregarding your claim.
lsated at Wellington, this 7th day of
July, 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust.
Office, Wellington, N.Z.
TO JOHN JOSEPH BRADSHAW,
brother of Robert George Bradshaw,
deceased, and formerly of New South Wales,
and all persons claiming by, through or
under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
sth day of July, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of January,
1921, your claim to the estate of Robert
George Bradshaw, deceased, who died on or
about the 10th day of July, 1915, failing
which the estate will be distributed among
entitled thereto disregarding your
claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 7th day of
July. 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE.
Solicitor to the Public Trust.
Office, Wellington, N.Z.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
V Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars .posted on application
to The Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
F N
F.N. Rifles are made by the
same firm and bear the same
FINE REPUTATION
as the famous F.N. Browning Automatic Shot
Gun and Motor Cars. They look good, and are
as good as they look.
F.N. BOLT-ACTION RIFLES,
18in. round barrel. .22 short, long or long
rifle. V back sight and knife-edge fore, finely
bored, very accurate, and nicely balanced.
PricGj <55 /■
F.N. BROWNING AUTOMATIC,
11 shots; fires .22 short only, as fast as you
caji pull the trigger. 20in. round barrel; 4lib.
weight. Price, £5/10/-. Packed and
posted anywhere in Australia.
LIGHT-WEIGHT GUNS,
for ladies, youths, and those who object to a
heavy or clumsy gun. Harrington & Richardson,
16-BORE and 20-BORE 5.8.8. L.
GUNS,
28in. and 30in. barrel, fully choked, fine dose
patterns, ejector and non-ejector, about 61b.
weight. Prices, 55/- and 60/-
“BLUE SEAL” SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES,
any size shot, best powder and wads, 22/ - 100.
Gunsmiths, Cartridge Makers, eto.,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
CASH S
HEMSTITCHED
A BOON IN EVERY
HOUSEHOLD.
For finishing Pillow-slips. Sheets
Underwear, etc., CASH’S Hem
stitched FKILLINGS are un-
equalled. You save Time and
Money and get same effect as
finest handwork. Made of best
material and in various widths.
For Marking Linen —Use
CASH’S woven NAMES
Sold by All Best Drapers
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St, Richmond
Vic.
m
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney —equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
are Sole Agents in Australia, is the Razor we have used in our Saloon for over
30 years. Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annually. Its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair in Double Case, 25/-
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.’
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match
M.S. Handicap
Haymarket
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Selected
Haymarket Ex. Special
Ayre’s Handicap
Ayre’s A 1
Spalding’s Vantage
Spalding’s Continental
Hackett Alexander
(Postage on Kacket: N.S.W.,
States. 1/2.)
6/6
l5/6
30/-, 40/-
40/- 45/-
45/-, 50/-
6O-
/
37/6
37/6
5O-
/
9d.'; other
Specialists in
All Kinds of
Racket Repairs
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/ 9 8/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey l/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/9 33/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other
States, 1/8.)
n%
riws
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Racket Covers 2/6, 6/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers... .... 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6 coil.
dfg
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 13/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms 6 or 8 oz.. . 15/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 18/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 25/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined. 6 or
8 oz 28/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 30/-, So/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 10/-
„ Tan Leather, ~ ~ 11/6
~ very superior, ~ ~ .... 12/6
„ Laced, „ 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3loz. (Post 6Jd.) 17/6 pair.
MYRROHL
MADE IN
AMERICA
3XSVJ HXOOX
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums,
prevents decay, sweetens the breath, and is specially recom-
mended for Pyorrhoea sufferers. An ideal paste for Smokers.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 2£d.) ; Small sample tube 1 post free.
7
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, ...: ... .... 10/6. 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6. 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. 25/-, 30/-,-35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete 75/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
("Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 4/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing SAvivels 6/6 „
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide < B 1) and “Sure Catch’’ 1920
Angler’ 8 Guide (B 2). All svortsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
fic
m •
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Every Home Needs REXONA
JJaby CHARLIE RLANI) (from a photo).
I have been a user of
Rexona Ointment for the
last five months, and
would now use no other.
When I arrived home
from active service my
skin was very rough and
blotchy. My wife, who
was using the soap for the
three children, recom-
mended me to try the
ointment, and after using
the first small tin (1/0)
my skin was normal. We
would not be without
either Rexona Ointment
or Soap in the house at
any time.
I am sending a photo
of our baby, which I hope
you will like.
I have not yet tried
your Rexona Shaving
Soap, but intend to do so.
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
CHAS. W. BLAND.
Doris Villa,
Audley,
National Park.
Rexona and Rexona Soap
More Popular Than Ever.
AH the world over every-
one likes the Rexona Reme-
dies. They are universal
favorites, and never disap-
point you. Rexona is the
Rapid Healer, and Rexona
Soap is the facial soap of the
century. Care for yourself
by using Rexona and Rexona
Soap, and your skin and
hair will reflect the improve-
ment from the first, and you
will delight yourself as well
as your friends.
Rexona the Rapid Healer has always
heen famous for its wonderful healing
powers. Many people now thank
Rexona for skin health and comfort.
It is a reliable remedy for cutSj burns
and all irritation and eruptions of the
skin.
Those who have once used Rexona
and Rexona Soap wonder how they
ever got along without them. So don’t
forget to take a pot of Rexona the
Rapid Healer and a tablet of Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap home to-night.
??►
4«h»«ph« Omfmvfil
/W''*// V»rnrrr, t ,
Jr *f ADaoiufely
' //) i N *»*» J fin,ail.
£
A MEFfttSMM'.C SOOTHE
MCALINC *KT»S.£PT«C iOAP _
MfcOiCAYLD OK TWt SAME PRINCIPIE
AS THt fAMOL'S RtiXCKA ClHTM»!*rjE><23
m
2^3
£2
REXONA
1/6 8 31-
REXONA
SOAP, !/■
i 7ir i*.
. 1 «
ms
-cs
1
Do you like
dancing ?
The joy of dancing can be brought into your own
home if you have a New Edison and a selection of
Edison Re-creations of dance music.
When you have a few friends all you have to do is
to slip on a Re-creation, and everyone will soon be
happily engaged in this pleasant pastime.
The New Edison will also help you in perfecting
yourself in the latest steps in the privacy of your own
home.
The NEW EDISON
brings to your home the Re-created performances
of noted orchestras, and plays everything exactly
as originally rendered—with the same perfect
symphony, time, rhythm and feeling.
Only the New Edison can do this. It is the
supreme attainment of Mr. Edison —the dream of
his life realised. Learn more about this wonderful
musical instrument that Re-creates the human
voice and instrument so perfectly the difference
cannot be recognised. Full particulars, post free,
on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Gypsy Yet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, take it from the harness-room and
from the dust and dirt,
The old side-saddle and the old black
riding skirt.
A girl as God had made her, and a Bush
girl of the World,
How strongly glowed her brown, eyes, how
close her black hair curled !
My hand it Avas her stepping-stone, my heart
beneath her knees —
And Granny rode before us with her grey
hair in the breeze.
We came from far as Ryan’s Rise, from far
as Reedy Creek,
And picnicked in the gully at the back of
Granite Peak.
The belle w r as Tottie Johnson and the joker
Bentley’s Jim,
In hiding in the Ranges with blue paper after
him.
We saw young trooper Campbell pass against
the sunset red ;
His heart was in his girl-wife’s grave, his
cap-peak square ahead.
We rode to warn and succor and to lie for
one who sinned,
And mother rode before us with her dark
hair in the wind ;
Because we came of Gypsies and of long and
dark descent,
And for because our grandfathers dared
English laws in Kent.
And granny stayed at home and prayed for
just one sinner more—
The housemaid at the rectory in Dorset long
before.
How strangely and how changefully do
memories come to me,
Like raindrops on the hot, white dust, or
dust on decks at sea.
They come like sunset islands seen in the
afterglow,
Or glimpses of white sunlight in the gully
long ago.
The young men dream of futures far more
fair than life at home,
The old man dreams of his young days as
though they were to come.
And four are left of Gypsy blood ; —a grey-
haired, dark-eyed set;
A sister and three brothers who have never
quarrelled yet.
And one is nursing wounded men who fought
across the sea,
And preaching words of love that are
not Romany.
And one in high society has learned how to
behave.
But one by stolen candle-light is writing in
a cave.
Since Gypsies went a-wandering, and land-
less folk were they,
They marked the land and shared the land,
and hold the land to-day.
Since gallowses of England groaned'with the
Gypsy best,
And Gypsy mothers sat in stocks all day with
brat at breast—
Since English law held Gypsy law as but the
law of brute—
The housemaid at the rectory has taught us
how to shoot.
“My brothers, oil your Winchesters, and see
they work all right,
A hunted man is starving out by Granite
Peak to-night.”
This message goes by mulga-wire, with face
as black as sin,
This message flies on brumby back, and he
half-broken in.
You’ll take it from a girl’s white hand and
tell it to a mate.
(Be sure you bring the preacher, for his
saintliness shoots straight.)
The outline of an old grey horse that other
eyes would miss—
No trooper’s horse could climb the ridge so
quietly as this.
The low tones of a sister’s voice break clear
from yonder tree—
My brothers from the gullies’ head are work-
ing up to me.
Sharp shots at daybreak in the Gap, the last
scene swift and clear,
The break-neck ride adown the spur—and I
am dying here.
Two dead men lie by Granite Peak, and
troopers more than two;
And, sister, I must say my last and long
good-bye to you.
So tell the story to your sons as on through
life they push.
And tell the reason, if you like, why we toolc
to the bush.
And tell of spirits broken by the laws that
puppies make,
Nor plague in stock nor blight in crop nor
drought on soil could break,
Oh, tell the story of our homes and of Aus-
tralia’s past—
The red tape round our father’s neck that
strangled him at last.
Red tape or rope—’twas much the same, but,
sister, do not fret,
I shot the son of him who killed our father—
Gypsy yet!
N.S.W-.
HENRY LAWSON.
“Bulldogs.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Rev. Hector Swete, the new vicar
of Boonbi, arrived by the S a.m.
train after a fatiguing all-night jour-
ney. He was met by an important little
man who introduced himself as “Mr. ’Ogg,
churchwarden,” and invited him home for
a wash and breakfast. Swete was very
young, very fresh from England and Oxford,
very anxious to make goqd, so he listened
intently as they yvalked up the only street
of the western township.
It seemed Mr. Hogg was also Sunday-
school superintendent (“not many earnest
church workers in Boonbi, Mr. Swete—
laborers are few, you know”), and the
annual picnic had been arranged for that
very day. But he was so busy he could
not leave his store; the two other teachers
(both employees of the superintendent)
were also unable to get away. But Mrs.
Hogg would go and look after the girls,
and if Mr. Swete could manage to be on
the station in about an hour’s time —it really
was a shame to trouble him after his long
journey—he would find the children
assembled, and arrangements made that a
goods train should drop them at “The Bend,”
a traditional picnic-ground some miles dis-
tant. A down “goods” would pull up at
the same place at 6 p.m. to bring them home.
The clergyman assented with enthusiasm.
Mrs. Hogg’s lips were thin and com-
pressed. and she wore her bonnet at the
breakfast table. She said little, but there
was secret disapproval in her glances at
the new vicar’s smooth young face and High
Church frills. She left the meal early.
When Hector returned to the railway-station
he found her there, surrounded by a group
of youngsters and a few elder girls—Mrs.
Hogg’s own class.
He enjoyed the picnic thoroughly. There
was no hitch in the arrangements, and every-
one seemed happy—except Mrs. Hogg. She
had misdoubted Swete from the first, but
when he joked with the girls and shouted
and climbed trees with the boys, and went
about all day with his coat off; when, after
the sandwiches and tea, he forgot the second
grace; when he actually sanctioned a game
of kiss-in-the-ring, she openly showed her
disapproval by retiring to the provision
baskets, where she sat alone till the distant
rumble of the down-train hurried them back
to the railway line.
Swete, having diffidently helped her and
the girls into their compartment, now stood
knee-deep in the withered grass that fringed
the metals, counting the boys, who enjoyed
the novelty of clambering up the high foot-
board into their division of the old-fashioned
second-class carriage.*
“All aboard there?” growled the guard
who disliked interruptions to his time-table.
“Sixteen —right.” Hector climbed in and
the train rolled homewards.
He sank on a seat with a sigh of relief,
and a moment later stooped forward and
clapped his hand on his left calf.
“Heavens ! There’s something biting me !”
He rubbed a pinch of broadcloth up and
down.
“P’raps it’s a bulldog.” suggested a boy.
“Rubbish ! It’s some sort of insect!” He
excitedly pulled up the right leg of his
trousers.
“It must be a bulldog.” said the boy con-
fidently. “Look !” he shoulded. “’E must
ha’ stood on their nest —’e’s crawlin’ with
them !”
“Dear me —this is agony!” gasped Swete,
now clawing frantically up and down both
legs. The boys edged away from the suf-
ferer for fear of infection.
“Stand back from that window!” he sud-
denly yelled ; “I can’t bear this any longer.”
The boys scattered, and a moment late? 1
Swete was leaning far out, shaking his
trousers violently by the waistband. Mrs
Hogg’s distrust was intensified when several
giggling girls turned to tell her that the
new clergyman was waving his trousers to
them. She instantly insisted that they
should leave the windows, and so remained
unaware of the catastrophe that followed.
“I’ve dropped ’em !” he gasped.
An avalanche of boys’ heads jambed out
of the windows to see the last of them.
Swete fell back on the seat, mechanically
arranging his draperies and pulling up his
socks. Then he turned his frenzied eyes or.
the wriggling mass of backs at the windows
and excitedly prodded the longest. A
tousled head pulled itself free.
“Mullens, my dear boy, you realise my
appalling predicament—the fix I'm in. You
must come to my rescue, you really must.”
He mopped the perspiration from his face.
“Right-o! I’ll walk back for ’em when
we get to Boonbi.”
“Good Heavens, boy. that’s not what I
mean! We shall be there in 10 minutes,
and I shall have to get out —out of the train,
you understand —like this!” lie swept his
bare legs with a despairing gesture. “Mul-
lens” —he laid his hand on the boy’s shoulder
with an assumption of pastoral authority—
“you really must lend me your knicker-
bockers. They’ll be better than nothing.”
To his immense relief Mullens assented
with a grin, first taking the precaution to
transfer from the pockets some marbles and
other treasures.
Swete groaned in sheer horror of the situa-
tion as he puffed out deep breaths and
wrestled with the top button. The knickers
had been cut short to leave the marble-
player's knees free; and they fitted Swete
like bathing-trunks.
“But how a]bout you, Mullens —you’ll
have to get out, too! We must wrap you
up somehow. Here”—he pulled off his cleri-
cal coat. “Come along, put your arms in.
I’ll roll up the sleeves. Button it all the
way down —that’s fine !”
So far the boys had been curiously sub-
dued. speaking in whispers and hiding their
smiles. The distress of the kindly clergyman
was so obvious that it became a vague
trouble to them also. But Mullens had no
special claim on their consideration, and
now their suppressed feelings found relief
in yells of derision.
“Yes. we are a queer pair,” said Swete
with a forced smile, trying to draw their
fire from the boy. He pulled out his hand-
kerchief and looked at it fixedly, but only
wiped his face, and sat staring down at his
obtrusively white legs. A thought seemed
to strike him and he glanced anxiously along
the line of sunburnt calves.
“Shall I ask my sister for ’ers?” said a
quick-witted youngster.
“No, no. my boy—certainly not!” said
Swete emphatically.
Yet time was flying, and there were possi-
bilities in the suggestion. With stockings
he might pass as a cyclist, and, his face
being unknown, attract little attention. Yes,
he would consult with Mrs. Hogg. She
might suggest something of the sort herself
—it would come so much better from her.
And, in spite of her unpleasant manner, she
was a good churchwoman ; she would appre-
(Continued on next page.)


Worn Out?”
*EveryPicture
TdlsaStory"
Do. you drag yourself around feeling “blue,’’ miserable
and ill? Sharp pains catch you with every sudden
move; backache with a dull, steady throb? All too
often sick kidneys are to blame for this unhappy state.
Overwork, hurry, worry, colds and chills, all tend to
weaken the kidneys. Then you have daily backache,
lameness, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
Don’t wait for more serious troubles. Get a bottle of
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day! This
time-tried, world-famous kidney remedy has helped
your friends and neighbors. It should help you.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE.
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 79 Garden Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:—“For a long
time I suffered from kidney trouble, the worst symptoms being severe pains in my
back, bad headaches, dizzy attacks, disordered secretions, and a dull, tired feeling
that I could not shake off. The pain in my back was often almost unbearable, and
every movement seemed to increase my suffering. As time went on I got worse
instead of better, nothing I took doing me the least good. I was really far from
well, and badly in need of a medicine that would cure me. At last I heard of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so I got a bottle to try them. They proved to be
the very thing I wanted, for after taking three bottles of these pills I was cured,
and I have had no return of kidney trouble since.”
Eight years later Mrs. Cox says: “My cure has proved a permanent one, for I
have not had a sign of kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me eight years ago. I always keep this remedy in the house, and take them
occasionally, because I think the kidneys need a tonic sometimes.”
Mr. J. H. Price, 9 Smith’s-lane, off Little’s-avenue. Balmain, Sydney, says:
“In consideration of the good Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have done me, I am
pleased to pass the word on to other sufferers, and I hope many will profit by my
experience. I used this remedy for a severe attack of backache and other symptoms
of kidney trouble, and they cured me completely. I suffered terribly, and could
get no rest from the constant pain day or night. It was agony for me to even
turn in bed. Previous to taking Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I tried different
kidney medicines, but they did me no good at all. However, I now feel splendid,
and I attribute my good health solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I always
keep a bottle in the house, and take some now and then, just as a tonic for the
kidneys, and as a preventive against any return.”
Two years later, Mr. Price says: “I have had no return of my old complaint
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. They are a grand remedy, and
should be taken by all who suffer with their kidneys.”
vsdfgv
sdgsd
Backache
Kidney
gs
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
IS Hamilton St., Sydney.
ciate his difficult position and be anxious to
save him—the Church —from public scandal.
With the desperate courage of a timid ani-
mal at bay he pushed the boys from the
window nearest the girls’ compartment, knelt
on the seat, and looked out.
To his surprise all the windows were up.
He rapped his knuckles sharply on the
nearest, but there was no response. Moments
were precious, so he leaned out and managed
to look in.
Mrs. Hogg, white with indignation, refused
to see him, but his facial action and excited
gestures threw the girls into fits of laughter.
He put his lips to the glass and shouted
“Mrs. Hogg!” and the girls told the dis-
tracted lady he was blowing them kisses.
In truth Mrs. Hogg had apparently excel-
lent reasons for both anger and fear. She
had severely cross-examined the girls on
their first statement and could not doubt its
truth. The wretched man must have brought
a pocket-flask. So it was an act of real
courage on her oart when at last she nerved
herself to lower the window with the inten-
tion of saying gently, “Dear Mr. Swete, be
calm, compose yourself.”
The intention was excellent, but the
novelty of the situation was too much for her.
Never before had she talked to a tipsy man
in the next compartment of a train going
full speed. The moment she lowered the
window the roar of the wheels deafened her,
the rushing wind choked in her throat, her
first word exploded in a hiccough. Her
mental confusion, and the shy man’s diffi-
dence about plainly saying what he wanted,
made it impossible that they should under-
stand one another, especially as Swete took
it for granted that the girls had seen and
reported his loss. He got the first ,word
in.
“Madam !” he shouted, “most unfortunate
—might be worse—-boy’s knickerbockers —
must avoid scandal—honor of my cloth —
what’s left of it,” he added, with a smile
she might well have thought imbecile.
He was drunk. She was quite sure now.
Yet there was a glimmer of sanity in his
evident wish that she would shield him from
the “scandal” of his disgraceful conduct.
She decided to humor him.
“Dear Mr. Swete, be calm,” she shrieked
as soothingly as she could in his ear. Then,
thinking to divert his thoughts into a more
wholesome channel: “You ate so little to-day.
There’s some milk left, and a sandwich !”
But Hector had no appetite. Or perhaps
he did not hear her. Whichever it was, he
continued, anxiously watching her face:
“I’m partly fixed up, you understand.
Partly. Got them from Mullens. Much too
short.” He paused, but she gave no sign
of intelligence. “But I might pass for a
cyclist. Or tourist.” Again he waited, but
Mrs. Hogg’s eyes, half closed against the
wind, did not respond. “Or a moderator.
Or even a bishop. Surely, Madam”
What a fool the woman was! A long
whistle, and the roar of a passing culvert
warned him the train was nearing Boonbi.
He grew desperate. Scarcely conscious of
what he said:
“I want —possibly there’s a pair in the
provision-basket— stockings /”
To his delight the lady gave him a sympa-
thetic nod. He leaned nearer hopefully.
“Yes, Mr. Swete, it was shocking. But
calm yourself. Remember, you’ll have to
preach to-morrow.”
His face was flushed deep red. partly from
agitation, and partly because of the window
ledge in the pit of his stomach. He flung
propriety to the winds.
“Stockings!” he roared hoarsely.
The lady drew back.
“Oh, I never meant you. But perhaps one
of the girls”
Mrs. Hogg threw up the window with a
bang, and remained with her back against
it to screen her flock from contamination.
The brakes grated; the train stopped. The
boys and girls swarmed out and loitered ex-
pectantly, Mrs. Hogg striving in vain to
shoo them home.
Mr. Swete, in his shirt-sleeves and with a
very red face, was leaning out through the
shut door, gesticulating and shouting “Hi!”
to the stationmaster. Mullens, in clerical
garb, stood beside him, grinning self-
consciously, not indifferent to the wondering
gaze of the girls. The stationmaster came
forward, but Mrs. Hogg got in the first
word.
“Oh, Mr. Jenkins !”-—he lifted his cap to
the leading storekeeper’s wife —“it’s too
dreadful for words. It’s Mr. Swete, the
new clergyman.” She sank her voice. “He’s
High Church, you know, and they are so
lax. Of course we must make allowances —
he’s so young and inexperienced—but I really
am afraid he’s” —her voice stopped, but her
pained expression positively shrieked in Jen-
kins’s ear “tipsy—squiffy—drunk— para-
lytic—shikkered.” He couldn’t help hear-
ing it. A woman’s tongue is all very well
for. ordinary scandal, but in the dangerous
region of libel her eloquent eyebrows safely
say everything without saying anything.
“Disgustin’!” muttered the stationmaster.
“Yes, indeed —but we must hush up the
scandal. Try to get him away quietly.
Humor him.”
Mr. Jenkins was Low Church—lower even
than Mrs. Hogg; in fact, as low as he could
possibly get, short of joining the Wesleyans.
And, as might be expected, he was also ad-
dicted to total abstinence—his over-
indulgence in soft drinks had long scandal-
ised every well-conducted bar in the district.
So Mrs. Hogg’s suggestion that he should
humor iniquity in high places revolted his
hundred-per-cent-underproof spirit. He
knew his duty. He sternly approached
Swete, who greeted him exuberantly.
“Welcome, Mr. Stationmaster! I sup-
pose Mrs. Hogg has explained my predica-
ment? You come, like the good Samaritan,
to aid an unfortunate whose trousers have
fallen—out of the window. Any old pair
will do.”
“Don’t talk nonsense!” Jenkins’s brows
darkened at the tipsy humor, and profane
allusion to something in the Bible. He
started at Mullens, who felt he had to
speak.
“ ’E dropped ’em out of the wundow all
right. ’E’s got mine on now—we swapped.”
“ ’E was weaving ’em to us,” tittered a
leggy girl, edging closer.
"I seen him,” said another.
“I’m afraid there’s no doubt about it.”
murmured Mrs. Hogg.
“We all seen him !” chorused all the girls,
supporting Mrs. Hogg, true to their sex.
“Rats!” shouted a boy at the back, sup-
porting Swete, true to his sex-antagonism.
“Bulldogs—it was bulldogs!” clamored
others, proud of their inside information.
Jenkins turned on them. “Here, yous,
clear out!” Obediently they shrank back
several inches, and stopped shouting—they
didn’t want to miss a word of what was
coming.
“You call yourself a clergyman?”
“I am a clergyman—in a fix, through an
unhappy accident. I say, old chap, do get
me a pair of trousers —any old things will
do. I’m really sorry to trouble you.”
Had Jenkins been his Excellency or the
Prime Minister, or anyone less important
than himself, he would have thought twice;
but it is the nature of Conscious Perfection
that it can think only once.
“Come ! Out with you !” He grasped the
door-handle. “Nice goin’s on—dressin’
up with the boys, frightenin’ the girls, get-
tin’ drunk at a Sunday-school picnic”
“How dare you! No, you don’t —hold
tight, Mullens!” In the tug-of-door that fol-
lowed Jenkins had no chance.
“ ’Arry! ’Ere! Quick!” The engine
whistled impatiently as a youth sprang out
of the lamproom with a lamp in his hand to
show he hadn’t been listening.
“Go for the policeman.”
The guard hurried up the platform.
“What’s all the delay? We’re ten minutes
behind time as it is!”
The engine again whistled —a prolonged
curse of a whistle. Once more Jenkins
grabbed the handle. “Lend us a hand,
guard, to get him out. I’ll give him in
charge—he’s drunk, beastly drunk.”
It was all over in a moment. Swete was
young, and he had suffered much. He was
too good a sport to punch the stupid face,
but he swung his open hand and boxed its
ears. The boys stared awestruck; in all
their early-bought experience they had never
known such a smack! Jenkins staggered
backwards. A boy skilfully caught his flying
cap. His green flag waved wildly as he
sprawled on the platform; there came a
crescendo clatter of couplings, the carriage
jerked forward, and Swete and Mullens
crashed sideways out of sight.
Mullens scrambled to the window. “The
guard’s got in, and the p’liceman’s talking
to Jenky—my word, that was a real beaut,
you gave him!”
“We’ve got to get out of this!” Swete
rushed to the other door and opened it.
“Here, quickly! You go first —get down on
the footboard, and drop facing the engine.”
“Right-o !” Mullens jumped at the chance
of transgressing the by-laws, and landed
safely. Swete followed. They slid down
the embankment as the van rumbled by:
the . guard shook his fist at them.
“Cut home, Mullens, dress yourself, and
go for my trousers; bring them and the coat
to Mr. Hogg’s. But what about your tea?”
“I’ll eat something as I go along.”
t “Right; I’ll never forget your kindness.
Now. let’s see how you can run!”
Mullens showed him—the long coat-skirts
hampered his knee action at first, until hr
rolled them comfortably round his waist.
Swete made a beeline for Hogg’s store
and his portmanteau. Sprinting up the
street in his shirt sleeves and tights, he
was just a boy to those he passed, and
attracted no attention except from a woman
on a verandah who screamed "That you,
Willie?” as he whizzed past.
Mr. Hogg was at home. Swete breath-
lessly explained what had happened as he
scrambled into his best suit. Mr. Hogg was
very human; his laughter was comforting;
and when he grasped the fact that his wife
was at the bottom of the misunderstanding,
his very stomach vibrated with delight. He
had recently celebrated his silver wedding,
so he knew Mrs. Hogg: he foresaw pleasur-
able discussion in which she would be hope-
lessly in'the wrong.
“What’s the hurry?” he asked.
“I must go straight back to the station.
I’m sorry I hit that idiot —I must tell him
so.”
“Yes, speakin’ as a churchwarden, p’r’aps
you’re right.”
When they reached the station ail Boonbi
was there: the children’s confused rumors
had brought their elders flying to see the fin-
ish between “Jenky” and the new parson
who had got tight on “bulldog.”
Swete walked up to the stationmaster and
held out his hand. “I’ve come to apologise”
—he spoke for all to hear. “You must
forgive me.”
Conscious Perfection stood sullen, but Mr.
Hogg interposed with breezy authority.
“Come, come, Jenkins, shake hands. It
was all Mrs. ’Ogg’s mistake, and you mustn’t
put her in an unpleasant position.”
Jenkins saw his chance to retreat with
dignity: he took Swete’s hand. “Of course,
as Mrs. Hogg told me, and it was her mis-
take”—
“Oh, Mr. Jenkins ! However can you sug-
gest such a thing? I never so much as men-
tioned the word, or even hinted I smelt any-
thing, because I didn’t—poor young man.”
Jenkins stood speechless.
“Deny it if you dare!” She tossed her
head triumphantly and turned to the crowd.
“But I will say this: it does look very much
as if someone —l accuse nobody—has been
having a drop too much—making false accu-
sations and falling about the platform.” She
turned her back on Jenkins.
Hogg chuckled. “Well, well, it’s all over
now. Come on, Swete! Come along, Augus-
ta ! Good night all! Morning service to-
morrow at 11, don’t forget.”
“I fear it will do me harm in the parish,”
said Swete gravely.
“Harm ! All the good in the world. The
church will be packed to-morrow. They’ll
like you all the better for it. Don’t be
downhearted. Why, you’ve set the whole
parish laughin’, an’ we don’t get too many
laughs out w r est.”
DOWELL O'REILLY.


m,
$ ■
■
S s-
u
m
m
*T wmrv ]
■
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent RdcKer-Joint /
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTiNGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—BB Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
dfvg
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the.outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
H O R U CK'S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68} PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information .without charge.
m
a iii
GENUINE PICKERING
GOTERNORS. All Types,
Jin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep aiul Cattle Troughing, Cast Iron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches,
Bond on Pattern Blocks, etc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses— 4lB-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Brisbane. Works—Yeerongpilly.
(Trams pass near by. 1 ) [
DENBY
MOTOR LQRRIES
‘ 1 ,i "i'~7 =T
A Good Come Bacß.
THE greatest satisfaction to any builder
of lorries comes when a user, in his
natural trade expansion, buys more of
the same make. The Denby builders point
with pride to a rapidly-growing army of such
users. One of the things contributing to this
result is Denby’s exacting inspection of
every part entering into its construction.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2\, 3\, 5 tons.
THE HALLIDAY ENGINEERING CO.,
’Phone: City 4309. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
N Cable Address: “Dentnax.”
Be Wise In Time
Everybody needs a little medicine now and then to keep the stomach right,
the liver active and the bowels in healthy working order. Experience
has proved the wonderful value of Beecham’s Pills as a tonic for the
stomach, a corrective for the liver and a perfect aperient. No remedy
has won a higher place in the public esteem than this old and well-tried
medicine. You will be well advised to
Take The Rational Remedy
—Beecham’s Pills—when you need a little medicine. A timely dose when
you are feeling “below par” will work wonders. Beecham’s Pills
relieve headache, restore the appetite, remove constipation, purify the
blood and thus conduce to good spirits and a cheerful outlook. The good
effects which follow a course of Beecham’s Pills are unmistakeable and
enduring. They will help you in your work and make your seasons of
recreation times of real pleasure. For general health purposes at all
times and seasons there is no medicine so useful as
Beecham’s Pills
Sold in boxfcs, labelled 10£d., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us.and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove, what we sta-e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anvwhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
sdf
.vMtiVW 3?****'
CARTERS
ITTLE
SVER
PIUS
I
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist hat
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dots—Small Prlca.
GENUINE must
bear signature
gsdf
T 5
c
ro
c
u
c allin& !
a
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Address-
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
f
Remjtgton,
Automatic Pistol
Cartridges
Your pistol deserves the best cartridge
that can be bought. Inferior ammuni-
tion may endanger your life.
umc ,
for Shooting Right ,
m
Remington UMC Automatic Pistol Cartridges suit any
standard make of arm and enable you to get the best
results out of your skill.
Special leaflet post;
free upon request.!
tm
vgsdv
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D> D. Bryant, Australian Representative Boa €B6, G.P.0., Melbourne
ner
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
{Patented)
N*
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
Fl 9 fc
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of tha
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


Ill'
fl
/
r
a i
iti
V
i in nr >
v
%
t
h
m
7 T' 1 ! W lII'
!/,
/
/;
/:
r/K
4 '/////////// /
M
A
1
m
C3S»
u
I
M
m
m//////m
tlllipwi
m
mm
MmnmiiMwM
m
IlltllllllP
munmm
:■
mmm
n
a
5 *
A
m
o
The Car that
“Keeps F aith
Large shipments of this famous
and deservedly popular car are to
hand and in Australian waters,
and we are now booking orders.
Chandlers have made good so
consistently that there is not
much need to go into detail.
The outstanding feature is the
marvellous motor, which is abso-
lutely unique in its flexibility.
A demonstration is yours for
the asking. Ring City 2567.
Write for new descriptive book,
“Overlanding in Australasia,’
which will give you full par-
ticulars.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENCIES—
MONCRIEFF ENGINEERING CO., Adelaide
(Agents for S. Australia).
HOWITZER BATTERY CO., Melbourne
(Agents for Victoria).
BRADLEY & HOLLAND, Brisbane
(Agents for Queensland).
PACIFIC MOTORS LTD., Auckland
(Agents for New Zealand).
Mm
a\
1
1
3
)
Tl)
%
0
%
j
4
