

Resch’s Limited
Brewers of
AUSTRALIAN LAGER and PILSENER BEERS
(XXX ALE Bulk)
<0
V
v--.;
; ■-.
ft
Dinner Ale, Seled Stocß Ale,
and Extra Quality vStout.
Brewery—Bowling Street, Redfern. Telephones—Order Dept.: Redfern 875 8 876.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2083.
Thursday, January 15, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


mm
s.
%
ss
V,
m
m
.o
s&Z4L\'^L
! F
<^s:
J
W'Cu<y|^
Just Like New!
Dirty, gloomy, dust-catching furniture can
easily be restored to its original beauty and charm
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax. - Has your mahog-
any furniture a bluish, cloudy appearance? An
application of
will quickly and permanently remove it —at the
same time imparting a hard, glasslike surface of
great beauty and durability. It protects the varnish
—adding years to its life and beauty; covers up
mars and small surface scratches. It cleans and
polishes in one operation.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil
never gets soft or sticky in warm weather, conse-
quently does not gather dust or show finger prints.
Use it on your piano, gramophone, furniture,
floors and woodwork, linoleum and leather goods.
Use It On the Motor Car
When used on the motor car it preserves the finish
and protects it from the weather —prevents checking—
sheds water and dust and makes a wash last twice
as long.
Insist on Johnson*s Products
from your dealer
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
%s\
rv
A
SSSSS
m
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home,
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street. Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
«3
m
fgd
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumanthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own. and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
[2
The Red Page
The Book of Ichabod von Tirpitz
My Memoirs, by Grand Admiral von
Tirpitz, begins in the usual Hun manner
by assuming, as something accepted by all
the world, that the murder of an Austrian
prince by an Austrian subject in the capital
of an Austrian province was a Serbian crime
Even the fact that Austria wanted Serbia so
that it might have a clear road to the
great seaport of Salonika only makes the
proof more clear. Starting from this basis
there is some possibility of making out a
case. If one begins by assuming, as a matter
obvious to the entire human race, that the
shooting of the Duke of Edinburgh at Clon-
tarf (Sydney) in 1868 was the work of
Napoleon 111., and that the subsequent cor-
respondence between the King of Switzer-
land and the Duke of Australia is beyond
question, then the Prussian claim to Alsace-
Lorraine can’t b<2 disputed. At the same
time Tirpitz admits that Austria was
desperately anxious fpr a safe, profitable
little war to rehabilitate its reputation. It
had been dry-rotting ever since the Hun-
garian compromise in the ’sixties.
In 1914 the Prusso-Germans—the soldiers
and hayseeds who had suddenly gone to sea
—had, on paper, the second-best navy in the
world, and the question to be settled was
whether, by reason of its youtlifuluess and
up-to-dateness, it wasn’t really the best.
Greece argued that point with Persia ; Rome
with Carthage; Spain and its allies of the
Holy League against the overwhelming Turk
at Lepanto; England against Spain in the
Armada days; the United States against Bri-
tain in 1812-1815. In these and many other
cases the theory of the leaders of No. 2 was
that it had to lick No. 1 at any cost dr else
sink to the position of No. 10. But while
the Hun army was controlled by the Great
General Staff there was no such Staff for
the navy—it was under • the "direct orders
of the Kaiser. He directed it from his inland
capital. The admirals who helped him lived
inland with him till they lost their sea legs.
Nothing could be done save by direct permis-
sion of the inland Kaiser. He took a vast
interest in the navy. At one time he drew
plans for an all-conquering battleship, called
by his scoffing parasites the Homunculus,
which was to have the heaviest armor so as
to be slow, the biggest engines so as to be
swift, the longest-rangp guns so that it could
fight at 20 miles, and the greatest number of
torpedoes so that it could only fight to
advantage *at a mile or two. the torpedoes to
occupy the engine space and the engines to
be presumably dragged behind. The law
laid down by the War Lord, in the one de-
partment of which he retained complete per-
sonal control, was that the navy was to be
intact and undiminished at the end of the
war. If he had required that the army and
treasury should be also intact it would have
been a poor war, but as regards the army
and treasury the General Staff ran things.
The Prusso-German navy *of soldiers-at-
sea got loose for once in 1916. The result
was surprising. It was found that the Hun
guns were of as long range as the British
guns. The explosives were better. And the
thin decks of the British ships were a hid-
eous and unexpected weakness. A German
ship had to be slowly pounded to pieces like
an Elephant being killed by catapults. But
if a German shell, shooting up towards the
clouds and descending, dropped on the deck
mu 3 British ship, 'it was all up with the ship.
Three British war vessels went out to a
single shell apiece. Theoretically, the Bri-
tish ought to have realised their weakness
and fled to harbor to refit, while the Huns
chased them and blew coek-a-doodle noises
on their syrens. If Nelson or Farragut or
-Van Tromp or Drake or Paul Jones had
been the Hun commander that would have
looked the natural thing. In practice the
British, while/making a note that their ships
required a lot of- alteration, kept the sea,
reported a victory, and blew farm-yard dis-
cords on their syrens. The Huns went back
to harbor as if chased by devils. Ichabod
von Tirpitz blames it on the Kaiser, because
that inland admiral had ordered the fleet to
intact ready for surrender. On the
other hand it may have been that the agricul-
tural junkers at sea had cold feet.
. After that the Hun fleet loafed in the
river mouths. It didn’t go out and select its
own opportunity amid the breezes and the
fishes and the crested waves. It didn’t make
a riotous sally and end gloriously, as the
Spaniards, though they knew they were
utterly lost, did in their last flutter in Cuba.
Some of the men were sent to shore service,
lhe rest became unemployed hoodlums on
board. Witlfin a few days of the finish of
all things the Kaiser gave up his authority
3 i a supreme naval commander,
and the supreme one told the navy to go out
and uphold the glorious traditions of the
junkers at sea who had never scored a big
success. The navy said it would see him
blowed first.
Ichabod von Tirpitz, the aged inland
admiral, quotes some examples that he wishes
a e I* had followed. One is Tegetthof. the
Austrian, who, in 1866. put up the rare
record of a Ilun seaman winning a battle
against odds. That was in the days of short-
range guns and rams. But Tegetthof took
instructions from no man. And when he led
out his mixed wood-and-iron fleet in a fog
against what, was then the best ironclad fleet
in Europe, his simple order was “ram everv-
thing grey” (grey being the Italian color),
and he set an example by crumpling up his
composite flagship against the biggest Italian
ironclad he could find, to the ruin of both.
Von J lrpitz also weeps because Germany
had no men like Clemenceau and Lloyd
George to whom the people would entrust un-
limited power and whose call of “no sur-
render’ would rouse them to superhuman
efforts. But the Hun Ministers, being merely
tidy superior clerks of noble birth appointed
bv and dismissible by the Kaiser, had no
standing with the people. They “didn’t be-
long.” And the well-drilled, well-regulated,
goose-stepped populace had so little enthusi-
asm of their own to appeal to that one might
as well have been eloquent to a herd of cows.
If there is any moral in the hook of Von
Tirpitz the Informer it is that the Hun
mighty have owned the earth to-day but for
the Kaiser. Germany made large prepara-
tions for the command of the world by land
and sea. When it came to a mere counting
of land and sea resources it had quite as
much chance on one element as the other.
Even the fact that its admirals had no long
traditions behind them wasn’t necessarily a
drawback. No one took Colonel Blake and
General Monk of the Cromwellian days for
sailors, and the idea of sending Don John
of Austria, said to be a £ine man or rather
kid with cavalry, to command a fleet, was
absurd enough. Von Tirpitz’s story suggests
that Kaiser William was worth many iron-
clads to the Allies. (Hurst and Blackett,
Ltd., London.)
Max Meldrum and Art
Max Meldrum, His Art and Views (Alex.
McCubbin and Co., Melbourne), is the gospel
according to Meldrum founded and ex-
pounded after intimate and earnest com-
munion with Nature and himself. His call
is the old and simple “Back to Nature!”
He drives the thin sword of his ridicule
through many of the pretensions and con-
ventions of the academicians, with their bald
and tedious processes and exaltation of Color
to the exclusion of the greater qualities of
Tone and Proportion. “Tone” he defines
as “the intensity or depth of any pigment,”
and “Proportion is the superficial area occu-
pied by one tone,” and it is only by concen-
tration on these superior features of depictive
art that the modern student can hope to at-
tain the brilliant future of an Old Master.
As for Color, per se, it is merely the visible
expression of an attitude or hallucination.
It is the least important factor of painting, for,
whilst tone and proportion are absolutely necessary
and could alone give us, within their limitations, a
perfect work of art, color by itself suggests nothing
to our intellect and would only appeal to uncontrolled
sensuality. This, fortunately, is not the object of
Art, for were it so the great painters and sculptors
so far from being held in esteem, would merit the
contempt of all men desirous of finding and thinking
that some difference exists between our own species
and that of the lower animals.
The colorists and impressionists, who try to
arrange Nature like a rainbow or the Aurora
Borealis, will probably refuse to be demol-
ished by Meldrum’s doctrine of painting; but
it is plain that he has the knowledge, the
force and the conviction to pound Iris opposi-
tion in fair argument into a dim, inarticu-
late mess. His religion is set forth without
jargon or mystification in the clearest Eng-
lish, and it is illustrated by capital half-
tone reproductions of several Old Masters
and canvases of his own. But apart from
its value as a piece of self-revelation, Mel-
drum’s book is an exposure of the shames
and shams that have been blessed by the
dilettanti and given honored names. The
artist is welcome for his tilt at the fatuities
of* pre-Raphaelitism as revealed to devout
connoisseurs by the absurd Burne-Jones,
“The Wheel of Fate,” in the National Gal-
lery. The book is excellently printed and
bound, and as a meal for an unprejudiced
mind is assisted by an introductory hors
d’wuvre from Colin Colahan, who, in the
midst of a torrential description of his own
credo in art, irreverently criticises the afore-
said Gallery. Mr. Colahan is very young
yet, but with good health and good luck he
should have many years to forgive himself
for speaking disrespectfully of a cemetery.
The Evolution of Government
When Germany set out to seize the world
it justified itself on the ground that the fit-
test should survive. What it did not realise
was that what might have been the fittest
yesterday is not necessarily the fittest to-day.
Also, that what is fittest to play one part is
not necessarily fittest to play another. That
really is the basis of the argument of Hugh
Taylor’s Origin of Government (B. H. Black-
well, Oxford).
■‘Pre-eminence in a brutal contest,” as this
author points out, “means pre-eminence in
brutal qualities. In this case the survival
of the fittest is merely another name for
individual success, and under savage condi-
tions moral qualities are a positive hin-
drance to individual success.” In the begin-
ning it was a savage contest. But when the
strongest savage had got command there was
some sort of breathing-space to develop other
qualities. Of course, the breathing-space was
again and again punctuated by other savage
contests. Small kingdoms were formed into
large ones by the struggle for supremacy
among them. Sometimes the fusion has
lasted; sometimes, when there are elements
that will not fuse or when there is no
obvious danger threatening from outside, ■
they fall asunder. If the fusion is complete
history mostly lies about it, as, in course of
time, it does about successful scoundrels:
it declines to admit the ferocity of the suc-
cessful king and the rottenness of his motives.
Nobody talks now of the fiendish conduct
of William the C<mqueror, because, as
Taylor says, “the 'horror of his methods
affected only one generation, while the
advantageous discipline affected many.
Those consequences of the Norman invasion
which historians prize so much came about,
not because William was wise and good, but
because he was strong, cunning and even
brutal.” He crushed the barons, and thus
secured a united kingdom ; but he did it, not
because he thought a united kingdom was
a good thing, but because to be ruler of a
united kingdom was a big thing.
Naturally, after every such great political
change there are some, many or few, who
cry for liberty. That word has been used
through all the ages; and none has been
used to express more widely different ideas.
It is really the cry of revolt; and it has
been of the utmost importance in the evolu-
tion of government. It has been the rally-
ing-cry of those who desired to push on to
the next post, though often they did not
know that, but thought they only wanted to
go back. Longer-sighted leaders, or some-
times merely self-seeking leaders, have taken
them on. There Was a revolution in Russia
the Other day, and the people went mad,
crying liberty. But other leaders arose who
know that what people need is government
and not liberty—that the liberty you can
get without government is not worth having.
So, sooner or later, something will evolve in
Russia, too. The Czars, who represented
fixed government, have gone; and something
has to be found that will -take their place.
Logically, nothing.can be said for Czars
in the present stage of the evolution of gov-
ernment. But there is a plain need of some
thing that will do away with the struggle
for supremacy. The ready answer is that
now the people are supreme. In theory that
is true enough. But in practice how are
the people going to speak? It is said again
and again that the last few years have made
(Continued on page 24.)


a
' (
/286
0 1388
y"V
0133 +
Pretty Blouses.
Just two by way of example:—
1X930 (as illustration) .—Fashionable
White Voile Blouse, fancy roll collar,
hemstitched and smartly pin-tucked, trim-
med lace and insertion, finished with dainty
crochet buttons 12/11
JXB42.—Dainty White Voile
Blouse, large sailor collar, inset Val. in-
sertion, fronts trimmed embroidered spray
design, quaintly pointed cuffs, finished Val.
lace and insertion 18/11
\
.TX1519
\
1X930
The Charm of Distinction
In all Nature’s Realms there is no
duplication!
The refreshing, captivating power of
a pleasing personality is made per-
fect when attired in ways that
harmonise with Nature’s principle—
Originality!
Originality and Economy go hand in
hand at Anthony Horderns’. The Fashion
displays, while faithfully reflecting the
world’s smartest modes in an endless
variation of original treatment, bear
evidence to the
EXCEPTIONAL VALUES
which have ever drawn thrifty shoppers
to the HOUSE \OF ECONOMY on
Brickfield Hill.
DZSB
Smart Skirts
—and every one, no matter how low
in price, featuring the touch that
lends distinction.
D 258. —Charming; Skirt of
Shell-pink Palm Beach Cloth.
Cutely designed pockets, button trim-
med, and a wide belt, also button
trimmed, gives a particularly smart
finish. The cut is excellent. Also
in White and Sky. Size W. only.
A VERY LOW-PRICED SKIRT AT
21/-
D 6781. —Fashionable Skirt
in Black Serge. Designed with
neat panel, back and front, inverted
pleat and smart all-round belt.
Attractively finished in very becoming
stylb. Reasonably priced .... 45/-
The Costumes Illustrated.
Three charming conceptions:—
I)l3BB.—Exquisite Model Suit in Mastic-
shaded Taffeta. Coatee handsomely offset with Gabar-
dine. Sleeves of Taffeta with wide cuffs of Gabardine,
double-cable stitching, arrowheads and trimming finish.
Splendid value 13 gns.
Dl2Bo.—Model Gown of Mastic-shaded Taf-
feta and cruiser-grey Gabardine. The latter over
a smartly-cut foundation of Taffeta. Silver thread, Tinsel-
trimmed buttons and silken-fringe finish.
Low-priced 14 gns.
Dl394.—Navy Blue Serge and Taffeta One-
piece Model. Serge panel from shoulders back and
front, richly finished with Black Silk Braid and Navy
Buttons.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £9/15/6
We Pay Postage on above to All Parts of
N.S.W. and Nearest Port in other States.
An Elegant Coat.
The Assam Coat so favored because of its many desirable
features is displayed in many charming' designs. Here we
have a Delightful Wrap, JX1519, carried out in
Heavyweight Assam. Black and White Check Taffeta
embellishes the fancy, wide collar, side empiecements, and
button tops; all-round belt, and turnback cuffs, as illustrated.
Price 77/6
Another style at excellent value:—
JXls2o.—Smartly-designed Assam Wrap,
featuring a Saxe embellished collar, inset pockets, turn-
back cuffs, all-round belt and button trimmed.
Price 75/-
Handsome Evening Wraps.
The Dainty Model Evening Wrap, illustrated
(Jx1516) is of Bright Rose Charmeuse and dull-toned
Broche —a beautiful combination. Broche Silk and Velvet
form the Cape Collar, and midway empieces the model,
which is handsomely finished with long tinselled and inter-
woven cords, with Oriental tasselled ends 12 gns.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons Ltd.
805 Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
JX1316


MaKe a KODAK, record
of all good times
Memories may fade, but an
Album of Kodak pictures is a
lasting, tangible record of all
those delightful times which
make life so happy. Kodak
photography is as simple as
ABC —in half-an-hour you’ll
learn to use your Kodak.
The No. la Autographic Kodak Junior is a
really fine, handy instrument —takes pictures
2\ x 4\- inches. Price 70/-
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak fits a
man’s vest pocket or a lady’s handbag—pictures
2% x 11 inches. Price 40/-
Other Kodak Prices up to £ 18.
Ask for the New Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK. (Australasia) LTD.
*>
a
■
mm
379 George Street, Sydney ; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Valiev; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
109-111 Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay
and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ; 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart
Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 148 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
nmnw,
immmmimiu hi
SSE
L'i'f
No
if
■ ■
"1|
f
l
m
i
i
%
a
..tin
Hill I ' l
|[|" ill Ml III'""
itmll
ill
.1
m
PLUM-LABEL
I
I
W
7a
mark
Reg
Trade
FROM the voluminous catalogue of “His Master’s Voice” Plum Records
you may make liberal selection appropriate for ANY occasion—Classic
Instrumental Music or Joyous Jazz, syncopating Dance or sympathetic
accompaniment.
Here are quoted just a few typical records. There are HUNDREDS equally
popular and entertaining in the “Plum” Catalogue.
C 441
( The Floral Dance .... Peter Dawson
i The Dear Homeland .. Thorpe Bates
C 602
\ Tickling: Dove Taps, Fox Trot.
1 By Heck Fox Trot.
Metropolitan Dance Band.
C 605
i The Swallows
j ho, Hear the Gentle Hark.
Stella Carol
Stella Carol
0668
\ AVho Bashed Bill Kaiser .. Tom Clare
( My Hymn of Hate Tom Clare
C 772
( Morris Dance and Torcli Dance,
i Shepherds’ Dance.
Violin Solos. Marjorie Hayward.
C 742
( Parted Hubert Eisdell
i Speak Hubert Eisdell
CBl4
i Vocal Gems: Maid of the Mountains.
I Parts 1 and 2.
LIGHT OPERA CO.
C 844
[ Kreutzer Sonata I. First Movement
-j (Violin and Piano). 11. Andante,
t Marjorie Hayward and Una Bourne
8913
\ Honey, Will You Miss Me?
Lily, My "Water Lily.
COUETIAND & JEFFRIES.
8988
( “Going Up” Medley Two Step.
\ (a) I’ll Bet You; (b) The Touch of
L a Woman’s Hand.
GAIETY THEATRE ORCHESTRA.
8994
j The Beauty Spot
( Joan of Arc
. Irene 3lag-ley
Eric Courtland
81021
S At the Jazz-band Ball, One Step,
i Ostrich Walk —Fox Trot.
Original Dixie Land Jazz Band.
81023
, j Bluin’ the Blues—Fox Trot.
' l Sensation Rag—One Step.
Original Dixie Rand Jazz Band.
10-inch, 5/- Double-sided 12-inch, 7/6.
Record Catalogues and monthly lists pro-
curable from all accredited dealers or from
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
Pitt Street SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPBOyE”
Reg. Trade-mark,


fg
For Biliousness
When your tongue is coated all
over with a whitish-yellow color
and your breath is bad, u you have
constipation and headaches, the
chances are you are bilious. Your
liver needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate the
trouble. Gentle assistance is what
nature needs. Pinkettes, the little
pink laxative pills, meet the require-
ments admirably.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
e>
P/IRIS
CARTERS
No metal
can touch you
GET THE GENUINE
PARIS GARTERS
EVERY TIME YOU BUY.
Imitations at any price cost you too
much.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A Stein & Co., Chicago.
[1
Australian Mutual
i7TOstfSdn«r Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEIILY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Business Notices:
'T'HE “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
A and made in Australia, beats all the imported
lures. Irresistible for perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting joy. Send
2/-, P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” 561' Dowling
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
-
19-ounce Featherweight WATERPRI
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The advertisement which appeared in
last week’s “Bulletin” was made by our
Principals under a misapprehension and is
now withdrawn, and we regret their cable
advice to cancel same arrived too late.
We being the Sole Distributing Agents
for Australia and New Zealand would there-
fore be glad if all persons interested in the
“Mattamac” would kindly communicate with
us.
WM. PLANT CO., LTD.,
York Chambers, Market Street, SYDNEY.
Even Smoke is Going Up!
Increased cost of tobacco
may compel the average
man to smoke less, and to
seek MORE SATISFAC-
TION from every smoke.
Choose GOOD tobacco,
and a pipe that will secure
the maximum pleasure
from every ounce of
tobacco.
a
<§Bg)
—the perfect pipe.
Many popular shapes— sold everywhere.
585
4
O
vS
s
E
AS
c
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SOLDIERS, SAILORS,
AIRMEN, NURSES,
TRAVEL IN COMFORT.
The only proved Remedy for
1 SEA and TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S
SEASICK REMEDY.
GUARANTEED TO PREVENT AND CURE
OR MONEY REFUNDED.
“THRIFT”—tk National Watchword
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SION OF
A GOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bos'toek’si Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glace Kid, is a scientific emulsion of, high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors : Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[]FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Batsman.
Fifty not out! And Fate, the umpire, sighs.
Old bowler Death is on the wicket still.
He breaks and swerves the balls to suit his
will;
And yet he cannot take me by surprise.
Over ! The captain comes with serious eyes ;
The tw r ain consult of tricks my bails to spill.
The pitch grow'S bumpy; I shall need all
skill
To save me from what Death and Time con-
trive.
Yet with a good straight bat and shoulders
free
I shall not reck of how the trickster bowls —
Round-arm or over-arm, now' fast, now slow'—
But seek to drive him to the boundary ;
Though to the grey pavilion of Lost Souls
I walk, out 1.b.w., at the last.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Shell.
When, in the meadows of the inmost land,
1 hold a shell unto my listening ear,
And, through the hollow little vessel, hear
The boom of billows on a foreign strand,
I feel the pressure of a hidden hand
Waking the pulses of my heart to fear;
And trembling melodies remote and dear
Creep through my being at a ghost’s com-
mand ;
Oh, then, I wonder as I loose the shell —
Poor empty remnant of a life once whole —
If, when this body shall have set it free,
My soul shall linger like an airy bell,
And all the ocean of emotion toll
Echo on echo through eternity.
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Rooks.
Like tattered scraps of paper they are flutter-
ing and rising,
And the jargon of their clamoring is very
loud and shrill;
The ebon rooks of England are swift planing
and capsizing
On the current of the silver wind that
whistles from the hill.
Hills of jade, and silver wind and rain across
the ri.dges,
Slim alders by the river, like a finely-
pencilled frieze;
The chuckling mirth of water under little
rustic bridges ;
And ricks and roofs and chimney smoke
within a cloud of trees.
And over all the ebon rooks are tumbling and
whirring,
And a phrase is whispered, whispered from
the tips of ragged wings,
Till deep within my being I can feel a long-
ing stirring
For the sea’s words and the white birds
and the heart-remembered things.
Ships, and spars of amber, the flowing out
of bunting;
The lift, the sag, the lurching as the
grounder meets the prow;
The loping leagues to windward where the
ocean gulls are hunting,
And here a coaster trudging home, and
there a scudding scow !
Oh! not for me the quiet roof, the firelight
in the ingle,
Where men may wander drowsing down
the easy ways of earth;
Full brother to the ocean, I have felt my
pulses tingle,
For the broad phrase of the sea’s ways has
spoken of her worth.
Race of wind and smash of sea, the scuppers
rolling under;
The rush and wash of waters when the
green is in the waist;
The wave that poops the taffrail and comes
roaring down like thunder
And the clatter aft the deck-house where
an awning is unlaced!
Stress of stormy weather and the tang of
spindrift flying;
The creak and groan of bulkheads that are
straining to the roll—
Oh ! daytimes worth the dawning ! Oh ! the
task well worth the trying!
The hand that rules the ocean has the
ruling of my soul.
And so within the stream way, with its low
and mellow laughter,
I seem to hear the watei’s lapping round
the massive hulls;
And, though Vision wanders outward, yet
my Fancy follow's after,'
Till the ebon rooks of England are a flock
of silver gulls.
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Blind Mourners.
Before they took his useless corpse away
They dropped a few small tears, that wet
display : >
Man offers man at Death’s dull entrance-day ;
And then they dressed it well
And nailed it neatly in.
They thought him deep—some thousand
miles in Hell,
Offering shrill excuses for his sin.
But all the while beside the window-sill
The dead man stood and watched them softly
spill
Their courtesy of tears. He stood death-
still. -
And when the procession passed
Not even the oldest friend
Saw his lone figure with its face down-
cast—
The unseen follower at the funeral’s end.
N.S.W.
LEON GELLERT.


MANUFACTURING IN AUSTRALIA
•The Policy of the Colonies of to-day is to manufacture and become self-supporting as far
as possible.
AUSTRALIA can, and will, enter largely into every sphere of the manufacturing world.
There is much to be said for the Australian mechanic. For the past four years, owing to
shipping restrictions, he has suffered the disadvantages of having to use old and practically
obsolete machine tools, instead of the more modern types; yet he has produced work up to
standard, which speaks volumes for his adaptability-. Such adaptibility was under the circum-
stances a great asset, but the METHODS OF PRODUCTION VERY COSTLY AND LABORIOUS.
All restrictions now being removed, presents the opportunity of equipping your shop with
machine tools, representing the very latest practice in manufacturing. Machines that will
be profitable both to those who buy and use them.
Assuming you decide to manufacture, commence where others left off, not where they began;
but to do this YOU MUST HAVE THE NECESSARY ADVICE in the Selection of Plant,
Equipping of same, and instructions in the efficient handling after installation.
Consider what this means to any firm. The plant produces work immediately on modern
lines, giving the users a (Juick return on their capital outlay, and supplying Australia’s needs
quickly.
Having had a nvmber of years experience in manufacturing of Machine Tools, etc., and modern-
ising of Engineering Workshops—the last five years on massed production—we claim the right to
call ourselves MACHINE TOOL EXPERTS, and to back our claim we demonstrate in customers'
works the output capacity of all Manufacturing Machines we supply.
THE FOLLOWING ADVICE IS FREE FOR THE ASKING:—
Rearrangement of your present plant.
Balancing your plant to bring each section into line.
Complete plants, giving guaranteed output on all details of the work you have
under consideration.
Fixing of limits, for interchangeability, which depends entirely on your class
of work.
Finally, to help AUSTRALIA to manufacture.
Our SMALL TOOLS DEPARTMENT is worthy a visit. At the present time we have a good
stock of Nortoi Grinding Wheels, Chucks, Dies, Drills, Cutters, etc., for all classes of work.
Our Grinding Wheel Specialist will be pleased to advise suitable wheels to anyone who has a
grinding problem to solve.
A FEW OF OUR SPECIALITIES
Horizontal Milling: Machines.
Vertical Milling Machines.
Capstan loathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning Machines.
Ball-bearing Drills.
Coventry Self-opening Dieheads.
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing Taps.
Baush Multiple Spindle Drills.
Brown Bevel Gear Shapers.
Carpenter Taps and Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostajt Copying Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking
Machines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments.
Fellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank Pin Turning Machines.
Heald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Cliuck».
•laekson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinl ers.
Maiden Screwing Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Dodge & Shipley Lathes.
Dumsden Grinders.
Moback Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding Machines.
Queen City Shaping Machines.
E. G. Herbert Hack Sawing Machines.
Rotofiam Hardening Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Scriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Pierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tangye’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Van Norman Combination Mills.
Worcester Drill Grinders,
Willard Dathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.
Machine Tool MaKars and Importers, Coventry, England,
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: ABC, Lieber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans the teeth without scratching
SvSweetens the breath;hardens the gums
MADE
IN
Australia
ĝ
r
5?
> If your chemisl - or storekeeper
cannof supply, send 1/3 in stomps
r° Rocke,Tompsitt£Co. Melbourne
Chops and Steak
are all very fine—
But when you’re away week-ending such things
cannot always be obtained. Besides who wants to
be bothered with cooking when
“Rex” Camp Pie
can be obtained from any store, ready to serve on your table.
Here you have the choicest meats, minced fine, seasoned
with pure spices, and cooked to a nicety by the most expert
chefs —then packed in a thick jelly.
SOLD BY GROCERS EVERY-
WHERE.
ALWAYS KEEP A TIN IN
THE HOUSE.
To GROCERS
Your Customers know they
can depend on ‘Rex’ goods.
Can they depend < n secur-
ing all the Rex’ goods in
your store ?
my
•,»
A
mm
&
!lflr3
; _
- \ c
■ , fifticr 7k >*A2Ei
= 55
S»
s*
\H
6^gO^.
and
Packed by
Foggitt Jones & Co.
Ltd.
J 777
ESSEX
MOTOR
CARS
Yet Another Startling
ESSEX Performance.
The following cable has recently been received from the
manufacturers:—
“ESSEX RAN THREE THOUSAND
AND THIRTY-EIGHT MILES IN
FIFTY HOURS CINCINNATI
SPEEDWAY, OFFICIALLY
OBSERVED AMERICAN AUTO-
MOBILE ASSOCIATION.”
This means that this small 18-horsepower four-cylinder
engine, designed for refinement and flexibility as well as
efficiency, averaged over sixty miles per hour for fifty
consecutive hours.
As a speed performance it is astounding, but as a feat of
ENDURANCE it is even more remarkable.
The test was almost equal to opening the throttle of a car
wide and letting the engine race for over two days.
IS NOT THE ESSEX A WORTHY
YOUNGER BROTHER OF THE
“SUPER-SIX”?
Dalg'ety & Company Limited
130 PHillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 41.—N0. 2083.
THURSDAY. JANUARY 15, 1920,
Pbice od.
A GOOD AUSTRALIAN.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia tor tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. o!
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. Gd. per annum, you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you, every week for a year, to ant
address in Australasia, port paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
—.lnsufficiently stamped letters' are liable, to be
refused.
The ..contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers.' The right to reproduce or translate, any
part of .the contents of this number, is hgrgby .
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknoivledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood thai
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tun Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and 'White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as o
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., h\l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
tJ.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco ; Childs News Agency,
comer Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 1849 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
TJ.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Peddcr Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and liulamadan.
Fiji. — . 4. Barker, Sura.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland.
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10os., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; 84oz. to 10oz., Sd.:
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid. ; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper tor
which a signature is required under the.
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
Georgo Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
tZleZzai.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1920.
SOMETHING DIMLY RESEMBLING AN
ULTIMATUM TO WHITE AUSTRALIA.
Apparently the White Australia problem
is just about to begin to be a problem.
Hitherto it has cost nothing in either money
or blood, and has paid big dividends in the
way of political advertisement. Men have
lived on it, but nobody has died for it. Now
the time of great armaments is about to com-
mence so far as we are concerned. Hitherto
Australia has heard of them, but they were
at the far end of the globe, and had no direct
bearing on White Australia, or even on the
ownershin of Australia. With Japan’s re-
solve to add 207 new vessels to its already big
navy and to devote one-third of its revenue,
which has increased enormously during the
war, to sea-armaments, the race is on.
Britain, in the last years of peace, though it.
had possessions to defend all over the world,
didn’t spend much more than a fifth of its
cash on sea-preparations. Japan’s figure is
put at £30,000,000 for next year. Britain’s
in 1913 was £44,000,000, and with cheaper
labor the Jap can get more ships for his
money. The position of Nippon as compared
with that which Germany occupied a few
years ago is this: —
It has made an even more rapid industrial rise than
Germany did, and so has more reason to be proud and
restless.
It is more" thickly peopled, so it has more need for
extra space.
It has an empty and little-used country near it,
which Germany hadn’t, and it makes the claim that
unused sections of the globe are the legitimate
prey of those who can take them.
It has the color question as a plausible grievance
(especially against Australia), while Germany had
no such excuse.
Having, like Britain, but unlike Germany, no land
frontiers to its homeland, it can economise a little
on land forces so as to build the overwhelming fleet
of the Pacific and possibly of the world.
It isn’t suggested that the gigantic brand-
new navy is wanted for internal police ser-
vice, and it seems too large for the purpose of
keeping up communications with the adjacent
coast of Asia, for neither Siberia nor China
is a naval proposition. Moreover, Siberia is
more like a ferryboat business than anything
else. As for the mandate over some of the
small one-time German islands in the Pacific,
it being understood that the islands are not
to be used for military or naval purposes they
hardly seem to call for all this elaboration.
The gigantic effort suggests, in fact, a very
definite new purpose in view—one which will
make it necessary to either fight or overawe
another big naval Power. The idea might be
defence or offence. But as overcrowded
Japan is about the last place on earth that
another nation would try to colonise, the in-
ference is that Japan thinks of colonising
some other place—an oversea place—and pre-
sumably doing it before the world has recov-
ered. Japan, being undamaged by the war,
doesn’t need to wait for recovery.
* •*' —• •* • * *
A hint is given by the protest of Nippon
against the form of the mandate,given to
Australia over”-certain- ex-German islands
south of the line, as permitting the applica-
tion there of the Australian immigration
-laws-. It -being understood that-a-cdun try
under mandate is to be governed according
to the laws of the one which holds the man-
date. this looks like a protest, to be backed
bv 207 new ships in addition to the existing
navy, against the White Australian idea in
general. Quite apart from the fact that
Japan, by reason of increased wealth, popu-
lation and armaments, and by the weaken-
ing or elimination of rivals, is far better
placed for violent protest than it was 20
years ago, the situation is improving from
"the Nippon point of view. The completion
of the direct railway to the North is not
only a bargain of the Commonwealth with
S. Australia and a bargain of long standing
with Britain; it is also the outward sign
and symbol that the white man means to
occupy the North and isn’t merely keeping
other people out of it in petty cantankerous-
ness. The railway, in the 20th year of
Federation, remains much as it was, and
the tendency to take White Australia seri-
ously is proportionately ‘diminished. The
Northern Territory doesn’t progress except
in the bad habit of throwing out Govern-
ments by violence. North Queensland, now
largely controlled by Ryan’s hoodlums, be-
gins to be talked of as a centre of disorder
and a breeding-ground for Bolshevism. If
it goes downhill between now and 1925 at
the pace of the last five years, it will be a
place concerning which Governments will
exchange “notes” as they do about Mexico,
and “intervention” will be talked of. Both
the Territory and North Queensland are
already mentioned as arguments that the
white man degenerates in the tropics and that
White Australia is a failure. The North is
as indefensible as ever by jail, apart from
the transcontinental, because the anarchic
Governments can no more agree about a
uniform railway gauge than they could 20
years earlier. The prospect of borrowing
the money for the establishment of a uni-
form gauge to allow' of the swift conveyance
of troops is now practically nil, and the
courage to raise the money without loans
has been frittered away by years of loafing
and self-indulgence. By reason of the vast
increase in shipping and other strikes, the
North is more isolated and less a part of
Australia than it was in 1900. # In fact, the
White Australia policy is coming up again
for review in the light of further evidence,
as every question does, and one prospective
appellant has ordered 207 new fighting ships,
possibly to help out the evidence.
* * * *
A side issue of the case is that the Aus-
tralian press and politicians and people, in
the craving to exalt the security and bor-
row' another five hundred millions on it,
have created a w’holly absurd idea of this
country’s “magnificent natural resources”
and its value for stealing purposes. If emi-
nent foreign visitors, especially those from
ambitious countries, were entertained at
Darwin, then carried by rail (when there
is a rail) at public expense to Port Augusta,
and from there again by rail to Perth, a great
deal of trouble might be averted, or at least
postponed. Also, Australians might be more
inspected as people who did pretty big
things with a very poor land, instead of
being regarded as mental cripples who
couldn’t make an honest crust in Paradise.
Any alien race which thinks it wants the
1056 miles between Port Augusta and Kal-
goorlie would be liable to revise its ideas
after inspection.
THE POST-LEANING RELIGION.
Anywhere up to a hundred strikes, big
enough to attract notice, are in progress in
Australia, besides a few hundred smaller
ones. A few hundred more are expected
shortly, not for any special reason that is
known at present, but in the customary
order of things. All the strikes are for
more money, which is natural, for few
people have as much as they want, and
even bald-headed millionaires with one foot
in the grave toil for more money. Many
of the strikes are for better conditions, and,
though some of the demands made are be-
yond the bounds of possibility at present,
still the idea is commendable. It. was the
craving for better conditions that brought
our remote ancestor Mandril Treetop
down from his leafy bower to hustle on the
surface of the earth, and it has been the
cause of all progress since Mandril’s day.
But the utterly lamentable and disastrous
feature of the case is that Less Work is an
even more conspicuous feature than More
Wages, and it comes in as much where the
hours are reasonable as where they are long.
Thus the great Broken Hill strike which
has dragged along wearily for nine months
is mostly a Less "Work movement. The de-
mand is for fewer working days in the week,
fewer hours in the day, and the principle of
day labor instead of payment by results, so
that there may be only half as much done
in the hour if the workers! feel that way.
The More Wage aspect of the case is pre-
sent, of course, but the Less 'Work aspect
overshadows it completely, -Considering the
dusty dreariness of Broken Hill it might be
imagined that the desire to make and save
money and get nway from the nlace would
be paramount. But the most urgent craving
seems to be to make the job spin out and
stay in Broken Hill as long as possible.
During the long months of idleness and liv-
ing on charity, there hasn’t been one serious
proposition for acquiring a mine and run-
ning it as union property by union labor
under union management, Avhich would have
meant work. The propositions of the Amal-
gamated Engineers are very largely of the
Less Work character. On the agenda paper
of the approaching convention of the A.W.U.
there appear 60 - demands on behalf of the
shearers; at least, that number has been
published but there may be more. A multi-
tude of them deal with wages and conditions,
but 12 are concerned with Less Work. They
include a reduction of hours to 33 per week,
payment by the week (£lO and keep is men-
tioned) instead of by results, so that thefe
may be less work done per hour as well as
fewer hours; and a prohibition against any
man shearing more than 70 a day. Also,
there is to be a whole holiday at elections,
with a polling-booth on every station to make
the .holiday superfluous. These three trades
are quoted as samples, but they are only
samples. At the present price of printing
paper-, the bulk can’t -be enumerated.
■* * * *
It is essential, unless Australia is to have
onfi' ; ,oi,..the. record, breakdowns of the world,
to separate the More Wage and Better Con-
ditions problems from the Less Work
delusion. The last requires to be absolutely
eliminated and replaced in many cases by
More Work. The lazy, arrogant leaders of
One Big Unionism, mostly prospective can-
didates for Parliament, and all utterly un-
productive creatures and mere parasites,
have given a new and violent impetus to
the idea that work is a curse, no matter
how well paid it may be. They are the
hot-gospellers of the Post-Leaning Religion.
Not one of them suggests anything useful
or profitable or even pleasant for the worker
to do with the 138 vacant hours per week
which he will possess when the 30 hours of
slow toil are accomplished. It isn’t even
suggested that he should have sufficient pride
to see that the post he leans against is of
local manufacture made by white men at
union wages, and not the product of a
sweated nigger and paid for with money for
which this white country has cringed to a
robber-capitalist and absentee. The new
gospellers simply put forward the theory
that Post-Leaning and living on the fringe
of existence through not producing enough
to leave a margin over the barest struggle
for life —Post-Leaning even amid the most
barren surroundings with no hope or
ambition for old age beyond a pension—is
self-evidently a blessed state. If the home
of the worker is a tin shed the idea is that
he should have the greatest possible number
of hours to spend in the tin shed and the
least possible surplus of production with
which to rise to better things than the tin-
shed life. Even the most voluble '‘organiser”
on the teaching-staff of One Big Unionism
advances the theory that the worker should
get only the full product of his labor. lie
often demands twice the product, but he
lacks the nerve to admit it. Even under
the One Biggest Union policy yet advanced
the worker can’t, however, get the full pro-
duct of his labor, some of the deductions
being:—
Payment of interest on the mortgage (perhaps
£900,000,000, so far as Australia is concerned, and
always growing) which has accumulated through
insufficient labor in the past. The attempt to repu-
diate this would probably lead to invasion, suspen-
sion of the Constitution, stoppage of the Worker,
and arrest of leading One Big Unionists.
Support of a vast number of people who are neces-
sary or unavoidable but produce nothing saleable —
aged and crippled and sick folk, lunatics, railway-
men, shipmen, roadmen, shopmen' postmen, doctors,
nurses, members of Parliament.
Support of a vast number of persons who are not
absolutely necessary' —professional footballers, jockeys,
picture-show people, One Big Union officials and the
like.
Payments to an enormous number of workers who
produce something but get far more than the selling
value of their output already, wherefore so many
public enterprises are run at a loss. If other people
are to get the full value of their output the wages
of these overpaid unionists —overpaid according to
One Big Union standards—must be reduced.
Assume that the unavoidable deductions are
made and that the worker gets all the rest
of his output, dispensing with the capitalist
and the organiser, supervising himself, en-
gaging himself, docking himself for absence
and sacking himself for drunkenness or in-
efficiency. The fact remains that on the
average, and apart from extraordinary skill
or extraordinary industry, man does not,
produce enough in 30 hours, these deductions
being made, to supply the needs of the
family of four, which is the common stan-
dard." The things a human being needs are
not made in hours per week or a little
over one hour per day (for the necessities,
like the interest bill and the approach of
old age, go on seven days in the week, and
don’t stop for either Sunday or post-leaning
day) The Loud would hardly have taken
the trouble to crowd 24 hours into the day
if one was enough.
* * * *
As regards this question, it doesn’t matter
whether the wages are a penny per hour or
£lO per minute. The Work problem stands
by itself and shouldn’t be mixed up with the
Wage problem. A country in the long run
must produce enough for its own consump-
tion. If it is a country like the United
States with a mortgage on the earth and
tribute coming in from loafers and incap-
ables, it can do with less. If it is a country
like Australia with huge debts and tribute
going out, it needs to produce more. But
the average holds good. Australia doesn’t
produce enough, so it lives to a jrreat extent
on borrowing, and the interest bill makes it
more and more impossible for the worker to
get the full product of his labor, as more
and more of the product of the fool must
go to other people as interest. And it makes
so few things that it lias to.buy so many
abroad, and when the foreign profiteer has
finished fixing the prices it doesn’t much
matter whether the worker’s wages are £5
a week or £lO. If the foreign profiteer heard
that they had gone up to £2O he would only
feel glad and nut un his prices accordingly.
The hot-gospellers of the Post-Leaning Reli-
Agion have one, supreme remedy for all these
troubles —to work less and produce less and
give the foreign profiteer a still better hold.
Tt is all they know. One of their apostles,
N. S. Wales Labor-leader Stokey, recently
laid it down in defence of a gigantic policy
of loafing and borrowing, that “it is easy
to govern a country if one is honest.” It
is also easy to operate for appendicitis with
a dinner knife if one is honest; but it kills
the patient. And the Post-Leaning doctrin-
aires aren’t even honest.
ANOTHER MASSACRE OF THE
INNOCENTS THREATENED.
In N. S. Wales tlie other day the milk-
carters gave the customary notice of their
intention to strike for more wages. The
milk-carters! The men who represent the
most absurdly wasteful proliferation of
effort in the Commonwealth. There is some-
thing ludicrous about milk-carting; so much
so that the sinister potentialities of tiie
business go unnoticed. Suppose, for instance,
that a strike of milk-carters dragged on for
some weeks, as the recent bread and beer
strikes did. In that event the casualties
amongst the most valuable section of the
town-dwelling population —the children —
would be terrific. Not enough people who
see the milk-charioteers scurrying about
their beats morning and evening appreciate,
that these should be so many fortresses
against disease and dissolution. In their
often dirty hands, and in the frequently
bacteria-infested receptacles which contain
their wares, repose the forces of life —or
death. In theory these men, like all union-
ists, are democrats. The exploiter of the
poor, the weak or the ailing is detestable
to them—when he is a capitalist. In prac-
tice, like many other unionists, they are
ready, for profit, to use their capital—the
milk-carting monopoly—to blackmail the
community; while as a side-line they may
sentence to death from malnutrition thou-
sands of children unborn as well as born.
In Germany even during the most stringent
period of the blockade there were always
two classes who could be sure of getting
milk. Every woman who was about to be-
come a mother got a litre (If pints) a day
three months before the child arrived! and until
she had done nursing it; and there was a litre
a day for every child from the feeding-bottle
stage until it was two. Largely because of
the babies it has saved by these means Ger-
many will have next year more six-year-old
children than if the war had never been. In
short, the life and health of the most help-
less section of every community depend on
milk, and plenty of it. And there are men
in Australia capable of talking milk strike!
* * * *
The N. S. Wales carters’ conventional
gesture will not have been all to the bad if
it directs the attention of the public to the
out-of-date condition of the milk-retailing
business all over the Commonwealth. Prac-
tically anyone can get a license to sell this
necessary, and all sorts and conditions of
persons drag it about the country and the
city and suburban streets. There are dis-
eased dairymen and dairymen of unclean
personal habits as well as the other sort;
and the same applies to -their innumerable
assistants. Most of the sheds, the yards
and the pails of the dairies are dirty in
varying degrees ; and milk is a magnet-like
accumulator of disease germs. Milk differs
enormously in the matter of food-values: it
may contain 6 per cent, or more of fat, or
it may contain only 3 per cent. But there
is no incentive on the part of the dairymen
to produce a notably good article, since all
milk, good and bad, is retailed at an equal
price. The effect is the same as the opera-
tion of the Gresham Law in regard to
money: the poor milk tends to drive out
the good. The pri<»e is outrageously high
relatively to the cost of production, chiefly
because of the expense incurred in cartage.
Every retailer runs his own man, cart and
horse, or several of them. A dozen equi-
pages may be seen any day working one
suburban street, whereas one carter could
easily serve, as a rule, a dozen streets, and
do it at least twice as quickly. He could,
furthermore, be inspected together with his
vehicle, if the law so decided. 12 times more
easily, and the victims would know exactly
who to look to if a sudden outbreak of enter-
itis or summer diarrhoea occurred in a
neighborhood. Some of the effects of the
present system are that a large proportion
of the milk retailed contains manure, more
or less (and that means the tubercle germ,
as well as the summer diarrhoea microbe) :
while - probably 2000 to 3000 babies get
tuberculosis from milk in Australia every
year—babies who, considered from an econo-
mic standpoint alone, would, in other cir-
cumstances, have grown up and become pro-
ducers, and added to the nation’s man-
power, and- helped to pay off its debts.
Some of the American States have come
nearest to providing their citizens with
fairly safe milk —perfectly safe milk, in
bulk, being a pious aspiration rather than a
matter of practical attainment. All milk
in the more progressive States is graded.
The A grade is for infants, the B grade
for adults and the C for cooking. The A
grade costs about -Id. a pint more than the
B grade; which is not much when regarded
as insurance on the life of a child. The
grading is done by the local Health De-
partment on the basis of the number of
bacteria which the milk contains when it
reaches the consumer; milk-sellers are given
an annual license in which is defined the
quality of milk they are entitled to supply:
and if any serious breach of the regulations
occurs the license is cancelled for good. The
scheme is essentially democratic since, all
the world over, if there is any preference in
the matter of food supply, the indigent get the
benefit of it. It is reasonable; milk is either
good or harmful, and any man convicted of
wilfully selling poison under the pretence
that it is a foodstuff should obviously get no
mercy. The vendor has every chance of
providing a good article. The search for
unclean milkers and bails and for tuber-
culous and otherwise unhealthy cows is un-
remitting on the part of the authorities:
and all delivery has to be in sealed vessels
which are never allowed to get warm. Until
the institution of these changes 't was cal-
culated that for every £lO profit the milk
companies out into their pockets, the life
of’one child was sacrificed. The nett rt-n I’-
is that in Cincinnati—to take a fairly typ ;
cal case—the mortality figures for infants
under 12 months have been brought down
from 139 to 93 per 1000. There is a ten-
dency amongst farmers everywhere, on the


introduction and drastic exercise of such
measures as these, to kill their milch cows
for meat. Germany had to make this a
penal offence in the closing stages of the
war. But another aspect is that the more
far-sighted will only see in the arrangement
an argument why they should specialise in
a higher class of dairy cow, getting rid of
those that produce the largest amount of
water in their milk, and concentrating on
the ones which supply the maximum in the
way of food. A graded milk scheme is com-
mercially sound: it is as uneconomical to
sell first-rate milk for the same price as
third-rate as it would be to sell fillet steak
as offal. And it is about the easiest and
cheapest means by which Australia could
increase its population. But even before the
arrival of this needed reform the milk-carter
in the multitudinous form in which he
exists at present should go. It is the
strongest of anomalies that, while news-
papers are delivered in every city, town and
suburb on a system which forbids over-
lapping, milk, which suffers more in the
handling than any other foodstuff, is scattered
around without any attempt at system what-
ever.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Outlook for 1920.
The general impression which 1919 left be-
hind it was that most people were on strike
some of the time, and some of them all the
time. The shadow which 1920 casts ahead
is that the same thing is going to happen
again. The shipping hold-up in particular has
become chronic, but as a rule it affects only
the Australian companies, which, after ail,
are small white concerns paying poor divi-
dends. Gigantic foreign and brown or partly-
brown concerns like the P. and O. and the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha, with dividends time
run as high as 100 per cent., are never inter-
fered with. This may be partly due to the
policy of -venomous political adventurers
whose tales create a vague idea that all
Australian shipping concerns are enormously
wealthy profiteers who ought to be “put
down” ; and it may be partly due to other
causes. Anyhow, as a great deal of the
Commonwealth is only accessible by sea, the
unpleasant result may be an alteration of
the navigation law throwing open the coastal
trade to foreign ships with mixed crews and
a large removal of Australian ships to
foreign registers. The great mass of strikes
have at least half their reason or reason-
able excuse in the gigantic increase in the
cost of imported commodities. And that is
largely owing to the insane policy of loading
the country with unspeakable debts at un-
speakable interest to build works which are
a burden on everybody—a policy which
absorbs so much labor that there is not
enough left to make up our own commodi-
ties. As for the part of the strike trouble
which is based not on wage questions but
on the desire to do the minimum of work,
it is due in some degree to the poisonous non-
work literature which unionists have to buy
under pain of being hauled up in court and
let in for £6 6s. costs, or possibly thrown
out of the union and deprived of a livelihood.
Any large talk or loose conversation about
putting down strikes by force is absurd;
but one most obvious course is to abolish
the right of trades unions to blackmail a
large and increasing section of the com-
munity to support and circulate what are
now, in many cases, mere Bolsliexfik ravings.
Any bind of education will take root if per-
sisted in continuously on a large scale, and
this method by which the Bolshevik school
is supported by compulsory subscription,
fixed and collected by itself, is the grandest
device that could be imagined for creating
a Bolshevik nation. A further remedy is for
the Governments to have a Great Strike on
their own account —a strike against the shark
who demands 6J per cent, for public works
loans, such loans to be declared “black” till
the rate comes down to 3£. By the time that
figure is reached the community may have
become accustomed to doing without loans.
Large sections of Australia have had to learn
at times to do without ships, trains, coal,
gas and beer. All Australia has had to learn
to do without gold coinage—a thing once con-
sidered impossible. If it can’t carry self-
denial a little further and do without loans
then it is a worm of a community. There
are these outstanding reasons for the Great
Loan Strike: —-
The country hasn’t a public work in view—not
one between Cape York and the Leeuwin —which
can pay even half of the interest, for the cost of
construction in these 6j per cent, days is about
double what it was in the times of 34 per cent.
There are works that would pay if built out of taxes
with no interest bill to carry, but that is another
matter.
Even in the days when men worked comparatively
long hours there wasn’t enough labor, or the labor
wasn’t sufficiently well-directed, to supply the
people’s needs after deducting the vast army em-
ployed on loan works. So the importer was great
and arrogant and expensive in the land.
Every time there is a reduction of working hours,
which reduction has now reached a point at which
it generally means a reduction of output, or every
time there is a change from piecework to day
labor, which always means a reduction of output,
more men are required to maintain the output,
and they can only be got by withdrawing them from
loan works. If that is not done and the output is
not maintained, the foreigner, the nigger, the absen-
tee and the alien profiteer supply the goods re-
quired, and charge what they please for them.
It is time for the community to take large
measures and strike at the root of the evil
by stopping the subsidy to Bolshevik and
anti-work literature; by doing its utmost to
eliminate the importer whose goods are so
dear that men strike on account of the cost
of living: and by ceasing to feed the strike
and short-hour and go-slow disease with
loans.
The Carriage of Dirt by Land and Sea.
Wool is the biggest exporting item that Aus-
tralia possesses, and represents about one-
third of the country’s outward trade and
much more than one-third of the means that
keep the country out of insolvency. In a
really good wheat season it is worth twice
as much as wheat for bringing foreign money
into the country. In a bad wheat season it
may be worth ten times as much. In 1917-
18, which was, largely for lack of ships, a
wretchedly poor year compared with some
preceding ones, this was the record
Wool Exported.
Pounds Weight. Value.
Greasy or dirty wool . . 243,802,577 £16,982,025
Washed wool . . .. 62,865,373 6,094,040
Tops (partly-manufactured
wool).. .. .. 4,571,357 1,510,799
311,239,307 £24,586,864
Tops are the glory of the business, for they
represent at least a humble form of manu-
facture and are among the few things that
Australia sends away not in their absolutely
raw state as torn from the ground or off the
animal. Washed or scoured represents at
least an effort to be not entirely primitive.
But the export of dirty wool, which stands
for the great bulk of the business, is wholly
primitive and anv savage could do it. Un-
scoured wool is half dirt, so the export of
243,802,5771 b. in that state meant the export
of roughly 5500 tons of wool and 5500 tons
of dirt. That was in a year when it was
hardly possible to get the stuff away for
want of ships. Iu 1913, when there was
no such difficulty, Australia sent away about
12,000 tons of wool and 12,000 tons of dirt.
So the reason why Australia has a year’s
crop of wool on hand now, to its great loss
and inconvenience, is not the lack of ships
to carry wool but the lack of ships to carry
dirt. Though the wool could have been
managed, the dirt was too much. But there
is a further point. A few years ago the
cost of scouring wool was between Id. and
id. per lb., and it is fairly safe now to set
it down at Id. either here or in England,
for the rise of wages in John Bull’s
country has been very great. Therefore Aus-
tralia threw away £1,000,000 of good wages
last year rather than sacrifice its beloved
dirt trade. And it makes, besides, incidental
sacrifices. On the N. S. Wales railways
under the old rates dirty wool was carried
on 500-mile stages for 7s. sd. per ton less
than clean wool. Under the new rates the
difference is raised to Ss. 3d. per ton. This
is done apparently (1) to discourage local
industry; (2) to divert such wool-sconring
as is done to Sydney because it is the settled
policy of the State to divert all wealth,
population and industry to Sydney. Naturally
a simple kind of manufacturing process
which would destroy this trade of _ dirt-
shifting isn’t popular with the railway
people. Still it might save the country as a
whole £1,000,000 in bad years and £2,000,000
in good ones, and that seems of some import-
ance. Nor is it popular with shipping
people; but we should have to pay them for
only half ais much hauling if the export of
greasy wool was flatly prohibited, and that
seems of some importance, too. And while
prohibiting the export of greasy wool some-
thing might be done in the way of making
the clean article the cheaper of the two for
railway carriage purposes so as to promote
scouring at country towns which could do
with a little more industry. This would
come under the heading of decentralisation —
if there is any Australian Government which
understands the term.
♦
Patriotism for Profit.
David Storey, N. S. Wales Minister for
Health, told representatives of the Medi-
cal Union that he was “fully in accord
with their views that all doctors of enemy
origin who were interned during the war
should be de-registered.” The N. S. Wales
Commercial Travellers’ Association, at its
last annual meeting, unanimously decided
that “all enemy subjects or persons who
have been the subjects of a country with
which the King has recently been at war,
be expelled.” The wool-buyers recently in-
timated that they would not bark
in the same building with Germans. And
so on. There are two ways in which the
question can be considered. It may be a
matter of pure-souled patriotism; or it may
be sordid business. At least 1500 of Aus-
tralia’s 3000 doctors can claim to be
patriots: they left their practices and, in
many cases, risked their lives, to prove it.
There are more than plenty, on the other
hand, who were satisfied to stay behind in
ignoble safety. In some cases they deliber-
ately stole their absent colleagues’ practices,
and are still clinging to the goods for all
they are worth. The official organ of the
profession has said so. Do such men as these
want specialists like Herz barred owing to
patriotism, or is it from a desire to eliminate
competition? Some of the best men in the
A.I.F. were commercial travellers. So were
some of the heftiest shirkers in the Common-
wealth. Many wool-buyers enlisted ; but it
is notorious that scores who should have
done so—youthful Englishmen as well as
Australians —decided to do their bit on this
side of the world. Their distaste for
association with fighting Germans is under-
standable ; but that is not an emotion which
should preclude them from doing business
with the Hun of commerce. Their own
actions debar -them from pleading any real
horror of the Boche’s misdeeds. These pro-
fessional and commercial men do not do the
logical thing, and demand that persons of
German origin should be pushed out of the
country altogether. They are quite ready
to travel in a tram or train with a Hun, or
sit near him in a restaurant, or be waited
on at meals or served in a shop by him.
They merely draw the line at allowing him
to compete with themselves for a livelihood.
It means, assuming these and other sections
of the community are successful, that a
large number of Germans and persons of
German origin in Australia will be excluded
from callings in which they are able use-
fully to support themselves, and thrust down
the industrial scale to battle for jobs
amongst the unorganised workers. Which
would be rotten statecraft, even if it were
good patriotism; and, as above suggested,
there is no reason, in many cases, to believe
that patriotism enters into the matter at
all. If the doctors, the bagmen and the
wool-buyers want to hit the guiltiest Hun,
they will begin by calling for a sky-high
tariff. They will then proceed to boycott
any identifiable Hun-made goods—drugs,
lager, woollens, motor-cars, pianos—which
slip over or through the tariff wall. This
may be less spectacular, more inconvenient
and not so personally profitable; but it will
be vastly better for Australia—and worse
for Germany.
The Case for the “Permanent” Soldier.
“Rio” : To those who make sweeping state-
ments decrying the “regular” military officer,
and including the Australian Permanent
officer in their denunciations, I submit the
following points for consideration: —
The British regular officer is what he is because
of his narrow public-school-Sandhurst-regular-army-
barrack training, which made him unsurpassed with
his own men but unadaptable elsewhere. Until
Duntroon the Australian staff-officer had been either
a brilliant citizen officer or an extra-brainy n.c.o.
able to pass the severe qualifying examinations.
Usually near 30 when appointed, he had many years
of business or other outside experience. He had
never lived in barracks or commanded regular troops,
and his daily work with the citizen* forces brought
him into contact with every kind of Australian. He
himself might come from any grade of society. Ho
had usually served or studied abroad, and the fact
that he had a certain professional manner did not
prevent him being a good democratic Australian.
If, then, he is a “tragic ass,” “dull,” “narrow,”
“futile,” etc., something is wrong with the law of
cause and effect.
When a permanent officer does his work quietly
and effectively he is not noticed, but the exception
is advertised everywhere. When a reverse comes it
is always owing to the “rotten staff,” but a victory
is credited to anybody' but those who planned every-
thing and made the result inevitable. The success
of the A.I.F. is the test of the permanent officer’s
ability, for had the A.I.F. failed the staff would
certainly have been blamed. Most of the muddles in
the Defence Department’s activities took place after
the cream of the permanent and citizen officers had
gone to the Front, and the District and camp staffs,
with their work enormously augmented in quantity
and importance, were drawn from the remaining
permanent men and all kinds of citizen dugouts,
there being five or six “civilians” to every regular.
Every mistake made, however, was debited to the
“staff,” and all kinds of non-military people wore its
uniform, a practice which should never have been
allowed.
“Could amateurs beat professionals in any other
profession?” Tiib Bulletin lately asked. Certainly,
under similar circumstances! Let 300,000 young
men take up any calling in which hundreds are already
enthusiastic amateurs, and in five years many will
beat the average professional in some direction. But
this will not justify the old all-round professionals
being dubbed “asses.” The duties of staff-officers
may be compared with those of editors ; it is largely
a matter of knowing what, where and when to use
the ability of others. But the work of both is
usually overlooked and underestimated by the igno-
rant. Both require to be scholars and thinkers, but
as well must be practical men and masters of the
technique of their profession; and one would no
more think of making a man a peace staff-officer
because he was a good leader in the field than one
would make an editor of a man because he had
written a novel.
Many permanent officers had they remained in the
citizen forces would have gone to the Front as
lieut.-colonels or brigadiers who actually went as
captains or majors, the rapid promotion in the
citizen forces since compulsory training being the
cause. Some found themselves serving on the staffs
of officers who a few years before had been their
juniors in the citizen forces and had failed for the
staff, and many regulars at the Front who both by
seniority and ability in the A.I.F. would have
reached much higher rank were kept back for staff
duty as majors or lieut.-colonels, good G.S.O.’s being
much rarer than purely fighting officers of the same
rank.
Finally don’t forget that the Australian regular
officer is badly paid and has no pension, and that
there are only two salaries in the whole Australian
peace army of over £IOOO per annum.
The N.S.W. V.D. Act.
Dr. Richard Arthur, M.L.A., writes
If anyone is to be blamed for the postponement of
the N. S. Wales V.D. Act, it is I; and lam quite
prepared to accept the responsibility. Only I
wanted to put it off, not for two months, but for six,
and urged the Government to this effect.
This may seem strange when for years I have
been striving to get an efficient Act passed, and only
succeeded in getting it done in December, 1918. But
the Act was of no value unless the recommendations
in my report, issued in February, 1919, and which
were the corollary of the Act, were carried out at
once, and up to the present practically none of these
are accomplished facts.
Here is the position. The Act says that everyone
suffering from V.D. must be treated until he is
cuied, and must only be treated by medical prac-
titioners in private or at hospitals. Now, to-day
there is hardly any greater provision for the recep-
tion of out-door patients at the metropolitan and
country hospitals than there was three years ago.
If the Act comes into force, what will happen? The
hospitals will be overwhelmed with the rush of
patients who at present go to chemists, or only seek
for occasional treatment when some evident symp-
toms appear. The result will be either that the
treatment for all will be a farce, or that the hospi-
tals, as in the past, will refuse to accept more than
a limited number of patients, and shut out all the
others.. Asa consequence of this, the Act, instead
of being administered drastically from the start, will
become a dead letter and the law brought into
contempt. Far better to postpone it indefinitely
until the £BO,OOO for new buildings, outfit, etc.,
and the £25,000 annually for staffing and mainten-
ance, as recommended by me, is forthcoming from
the Treasury.
It calls to mind the official attitude in
respect of the Barrack Hospital at Scutari
early in the Crimean War. “There were
moments, there were places,” remarks
Lytton Straciiey, “when the strongest hand
was struck with trembling and the boldest
eye would turn away its gaze.” (The same
phenomena might be observed to-morrow if
the community could see a mere fraction of
its V.D. sufferers herded into one building.)
“The old Duke” (for “old Duke” read
“N.S.W. politicians”) “had sat for a genera-
tion at the Horse Guards” (read “in Mac-
quarie-street”) “repressing innovations with
an iron hand” fin our case “flaccid indiffer-
ence”). “There was an extraordinary over-
lapping of authorities, an almost incredible
shifting of responsibilities to and fro. As
for such a notion as the maintenance of a
really adequate medical service for the Army”
(read “public”)—“how in that atmosphere
of aged chaos could it have entered any-
body’s head?” Then Florence Nightingale
arrived. She was a woman with a mind
open to new ideas and a gift for organisation.
The changes which she quickly wrought are
history. Yet before she was able to effect
them “the system.... put to death 16.000
men.” “The system” in the unending
V.D. campaign has put to a worse death
hundreds of thousands of men—and women
and children. It has condemned other hun-
dreds of thousands to the mad-house, to
blindness and to hideous and agonising mal-
formations. And it is still doing it. Had the
men at the head of the A.M.C. in Egypt and
France contented themselves with whimper-
ing about “inadequate hospital accommoda-
tion,” as the politicians have been doing in
Australia for as far back as the memory of
man goes, V.D. alone might have crippled
the A.I.F. What they did was to improvise
hospital accommodation; to untiringly edu-
cate their public; to supply prophylactics;
and to administer with rigor the principles
of compulsory notification and segregation.
Armstrong Huts are as easily and cheaply
put up in N. S. Wales as they were at Bul-
ford, and the climate is better suited for
them. The State has plenty of returned
M.O.’s who became V.D. specialists during
the war, and it has an army of trained
orderlies only waiting to be mobilised for
service. There has been no valid reason for
at least the past year why N. S. Wales should
wait more than a month for its V.D. Act to
become operative. A man of the organising
capacity of General Howse could be relied
on to supply the accommodation and other
material requirements and find the mm
needed well within that time. An Ettie
Rout might not take much longer.
♦
A Lecture to the Wrong People.
General Legge, Chief of Staff, who lec-
tured in Sydney last week on the possibili-
ties of commercial aviation, laid it down as
demonstrable that flying could be made
to pay here as it is doing in America.
And the General’s already-powerful argu-
ments would lmve been strengthened if he
had waited till next day when a cable men-
tioned that “the German Fokker Company
is building a 30-ton aeroplane to carry 60
passengers,” and that “the Vickers Company
is constructing a similarly large machine in
England four times the size of any in exist-
ence.” Without any question the aeroplane
is coming with a rush, as the motor-car came
15 years ago. In England, America, Germany
and Japan the movement has been accepted as
an accomplished fact, and methodically legis-
lated for. Only in Australia—a country
which, from Hawker to Ross Smith, has
been pre-eminent in aviators —is flying still
regarded in official circles with the wary in-
credulity that a Llama might be expected to
display on first healing about wireless tele-
graphy. It is all very well for General
Legge and others to call on Australia’s rich
men to be long-sighted and patriotic and put
a couple of millions sterling into an industry
which may be exploited, when required, for
Defence purposes. Their answer will be that
Hying in Australia is still unreasonably peril-
ous. They would never have bought motor-
cars at the beginning of the century if any
incompetent had been allowed to take the
wheel and endanger the lives of others as
well as his own, or if there had been no
traffic regulations; and a motor-car never
had the malignant potentialities that an
aeroplane has. If the State Governments
could only manage for once to put the
safety, national as well as physical, of the
inhabitants of Australia before - their own
dignity, they would promptly surrender the
power to legislate in respect of the air to
the Commonwealth Government. The public
well appreciates the importance of aviation
commercially and for defence; but it also
appreciates the insanity of bringing about a
boom in it before it has been regularised.
The first move, then, is not with the capital-
ists, but with the politicians.
Women in Men’s Work.
Randolph Bedford calls the world back: —
Behind the long counter of the banking chamber
and in the ledger and correspondence corrals there
were men, middle-aged and returned young soldiers,
and girls of any age from the flapper to the post-
marriageable : the younger girls self-conscious; the
older hands suave, stiff or supercilious. I was look-
ing on a post-war portent—the old war of the
sexes commercialised; Maudie hanging on to the job
that rightly belongs to George. For Maudie's job is
to be a nice girl, so that a nice man may desire
to marry her and she may thereafter sit by her
own fireside (without much fire in it, because of the
good Australian warmth), with her nice baby,
listening to her nice husband reading murders out
of the improving newspaper.
While I looked on the portent it provided its
own answer so far as concerned two. He was a
ledger-keeper, trim and quick, turning over 50 pages
at once, and finding by insti.net the page he wanted ;
she a plump, ox-eyed honey-blonde with ropes of
old-gold hair. She went to the teller with the
marked cheques and came back for more, and
whenever she returned to the ledger-keeper she closed
up against his elbow in unbusinesslike nearness.
If love can laugh at locksmiths it can also cast
ridicule upon ledgers, and the propinquity of
banker and bankeress was exceedingly unmercan-
tile. Here was the individual solution of a prob-
lem so big that it can only belong to the com-
munity.
In Britain, according to London Daily Mail,
nearly 15,000 ex-officers are unemployed, and a
naturally much greater number of ex-privates, and
the women occupying the jobs which belonged to
men before the war refuse to leave them. The
workless men say that the women should give up
their work and get married. The women reply
“Find the husbands.’’ Legislative enactment of equal
pay for equal work will result in the employment
of men as the more efficient labor. But that will
not equalise the preponderance of the female in,
the population, and the Australian end of the
problem is becoming harder of solution because of
Australian soldiers’ marriages in England, the
English woman taking the Australian woman’s place
as an Australian wife. The cure for industrial
sex-rivalry is marriage; but where are the men,
unless the unmarried male immigrant is brought
here to restore equilibrium? For marriage is the
only preventive of industrial rivalry between men
and women. Clever women talk of a “career”
in the terms of man, to whom love is an episode,
while to woman it is a vocation; but all of them
who can end in marriage. The woman classicist
and the woman linguist forget dead and modem
languages in making conversation of the “Goo-Goo”
sort with a . chuckling infant whose table
manners are not the least bit refined. Not that
the higher education of women is lost; the chuck-
ling infant succeeds to it. And the woman who
in business is as sharp as two Jews and as per-
tinacious as four spinifex flies, forgets all the
business knowledge as soon as she arrives at • the
necessity of ministering to the wants of a new


Flat-set—Distinctive!
A PEAPES “WARRIGAL” HAT
Made of the finest selected Australian felt—a hat
that will hold its shape and keep its color satisfac-
torily, giving good wear and imparting smart style.
This popular Summer hat is in Light Grey, Steel
Grey and Fawn—has medium crown and 2§-inch
flat-set brim with unbound edge. Made in Australia.
27/6.
Peapes’ pay postage.
The “Warrigal” trade-mark is registered and used
exclusively by the House of Peapes,
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney
27/6
Messrs. John Keep & Sons Limited
wish to announce that they are now well
established and stocked in their new
temporary premises,
Corner of York & Erskine Streets, Sydney.
and arrangements are complete for dealing
promptly with all orders and inquiries*
TELEPHONE CITY 7340 (4 lines).
Govt. Dept. 6638.
WHILE the marine engineers’ strike "was on,
the big Hoskins iron-smelting and steel-
making firm suddenly went on strike, too;
and there was a curious similarity between
the two performances. When Hoskins shut
down and threw 3000 or more men out of
work there was a yell “Why didn’t you
keep at work and settle this trouble with
the railways at your leisure?” and the firm
replied quite logically, “Because from ex-
perience we knew that we had to do some-
thing emphatic to get our grievance dealt
with promptly, and if we hadn’t done any-
thing emphatic it probably never would have
been dealt with seriously.” The engineers’
position is almost exactly the same, and so
is that of the marine officers. They have
held off, submitted their grievances, with-
drawn their claims so as not to embarrass
the owners and been pushed aside until they
came to exactly the same determination as
the Hoskins firm. The Lithgow incident is
worth remembering. If a big commercial
concern—one of the biggest in the Com-
monwealth —with expert business advisers,
comes to such a conclusion, how can we
blame unions which in desperation go on
strike because they find their complaints
don’t get reasonably prompt attention, their
peaceable nature being deliberately imposed
upon? ' Again and again it has been demon-
strated that the militant union is the only
one that can depend upon getting quick
attention from the Arbitration authorities;
and that is utterly wrong. If there is any
premium offered he surely should get it who
shows consistent respect for the law, not
the other who is at all times ready to chal-
lenge it.
Nothing aggravates a horse of the old Car-
bine sort more than to learn, after gallop-
ing two miles, that he isn’t entered for any
race in particular and his jockey doesn't
know where he is going. People like Gab-
riel D’Annunzio and Tom Walsh and
Tom Mann are always coming to sudden
crises like that. Any plausible adventurer
with a flow of words and a good voice can
rouse a mob with some such phrase as Mann
used to blow forth: „“On, on! You have
everything to gain arid nothing to lose but
your chains!” Then when they are ready
to go on, and say “Where to?” and the
leader says “Dunnoy” it is all flat beer and
anti-climax. Mann, very pale but carrying
a flag and trying to screw up courage to
biff the Broken Hill policeman who blocked
his processionj and Walsii threatening to
make Melbourne a place in which women
and children would be unsafe; and Gabriel
with a stolen army on his hands and a
glare in one eye and a look of hesitation
in the other —they were all of a piece.
D’Annunzio, who set up his kingdom in
"Fiume, has loft for home to avoid being
hissed and perhaps egged by his troops.
Walsii has got out of gaol and has hardly
had a mention in the papers since. Mann
never cut any ice after he led his excited
and devastating host up to the opposing
policeman and then decided not to devastate.
During Maoriland’s recent strenuous Liquor
v. No-liquor fight, Charles Hibbert Tup-
per, K.C., P.C., who had been Minister for
Justice and Attorney-General for Canada,
butted in with the solemn assurance that
prohibition in the province of British
Columbia had been “a veritable farce,” and
productive of perjury and deceit of all kinds.
Tupper’s experience (and he is leader of
the Bar in Vancouver) has convinced him
that no prohibitive liquor law yet produced
in America, whether in Canada or the States,
has stopped the wealthy from obtaining
liquor. But what people are able to do
now, when old supplies are abundant, and
what they will be able to do three years
hence, when the old stocks are used up, are
two quite different things. Probably alto-
gether too much stress is laid on the alleged
impossibility of making prohibition real:
Governments rarely have attempted any re-
pression, any interference with personal
liberty, without being told that it couldn’t
be done. The larger question is whether it
ought to be done —whether we have a right
to attempt to do it. There surety is a point
where the attempted interference of Smith
with the daily life of Brown becomes imper-
tinence.
♦
“Saxby” talks about his home -
Where is this inhospitable North Australia which
fools or worse assert is not a white- man’s country ?
it sul-ely must include the low-lying plains, 100
miles south of the Gulf Coast arid 150 miles north
of Cioncurry, where I have lived for four years past.
During those years I have never beett seriously ill,
nor have I seen anyone else ill. There are several
families of growing children in the vicinity, all
sturdy and healthy. Of course, it is hot in summer,
but the heat is dry, with occasional cool days and
nights. In midsummer the wet season comes, and
the countryside is transformed into a paradise of
fattening grasses and brimming billabongs. There
is no dust whatever, and no dreary, tragic battling
with starving stock, such as is experienced in sum-
mer in the South. All the heavy work is left for
the winter. On account of the rains a summer here
is not as trying as in Bourke, and this district is
as hot as any part of North Queensland. Admittedly,
the flies are a nuisance. The winter is a delightful
period, sunny, cool and cloudless. There is abund-
ance of good food —beef, fish from the rivers, a
variety of wild fowl, and vegetables are easily grown.
In addition to the silly slander about the climate
North Queensland has had to suffer from low prices
for stock, tick fever in cattle and bad communica-
tions. The cattle are now immune to redwater, the
oversea trade has established the meat industry
firmly, and railways have opened up the Far West.
And what a land of promise it now is! The coun-
try is excellent right to the Territory border, where
HARD RECOLLECTIONS.
Hughes declared in England that only Protection could save that country.
THE BOY: “Now, what about this country? And don’t talk!”
selections are now being taken up. Fine rivers are
there, running north and south through rich fatten-
ing country, with a 20-inch rainfall, with grass so
sweet it can be cut and stacked for hay, and which,
when standing, keeps stock in good condition for
ten months without rain. There are no rabbits, no
pear, no ring-barking expenses, and the land is
absurdly cheap. The average southern man imagines
N.Q. is, a sweltering, scrubby desert, infested with
alligators and myalls. We who have come from
the South know better. We know this is the real
generous Australia Felix, lavish with gifts, rich in
minerals, timber and scenic beauty.
- ♦
Some offensive words from “Bildad” :
The cable reports that two more United States
people have been murdered in Mexico, and I am
filled with wonderment that there weren’t four. When
Dickens described the place in “Martin Chuzzle-
wit” he was struck by the tremendously overbearing
attitude of Major Dawkins and Elijah Pogram and
still more by that of Hannibal Chollop. Yet the
United States hadn’t built its navy then. It had
lost its mercantile position on the sea as a result
of the Civil War. It had scarcely begun to
“strike oil.” Its great manufactures and trusts
and corporations hadn’t begun. It is hardly cer-
tain that it owned a single millionaire (in pounds,
not dollars), though Jay Gould might have qualified.
It hadn’t won its easy victory over Spain. Now
the Yankee has “saved the world,” and his new
pomp is to the pomp of the Elijah Poqiiam and
Hannibal Ciiollop days as an ironclad is to a
chip. Certainly he arrived late on the field. He
had to be ferried across in Allied ships. He had
to be taught his job, largely by Allied officers,
wheh he got there. The weapons he carried proved
little good. The wonderful airship he devised proved
no good at all. lie only sacrificed about 50,000
men in a Wat where the deaths were counted by
millions, and it is said that half that mortality
arose through assuming a loftly Stars-and-Stripes
attitude while other men took cover and killed Ger-
mans instead of being killed themselves. Luden-
dorff in his book gives the impression that he heard
a good deal of the U.S. troops, but being busy in
the places where the row was thickest he hardly
saw them. In fact, they hardly appear in war
literature except in their own war literature. I
have to mix a good deal with U.S. people and I
hear their war story—in fact, I never hear any-
thing else unless it is their dollar story—until I
begin to understand how citizens belonging to a
country that has had at least 60 years of that
sort of thing may run amok at times. If I had
two of the dreadful cheap Mexican drinks in my
stomach and met an “American” of the type that
wears an “A.E.F.” button and says it means
“After England Failed,” I think I might be uncivil
myself, though naturally a mild and spectacled being.
From an old Athenaeum Club man :
It is almost impossible to define a gentleman,
though it is childishly easy to pick those who are
not. I realise, for example, that I am not one,
and that few of my friends and acquaintances are.
Enough for us if we may avoid being “gents.,”
who are to gentlemen what wowsers are to saints.
But now and then, in the vulgar scuffle which is
life, we encounter the real thing. Edmund Barton
was a gentleman. He was a very friendly man —to
everybody; princes, Governors shady attorneys,
bankrupts, dustmen and all. He was devoid, in-
tellectually as well as socially, of any self-conscious-
ness of merit. It inevitably made him a target
for snobs and bores —more particularly in the old
days of the Club —but it helped to set the brand
on him without which none is genuine. He never
willingly hurt anyone’s feelings. He never even
contended or argued except as a matter of stern
duty. He was really “gentle.” No one ever heard
him sneer —unless perhaps it was after his bitter
defeat by David Storey—or talk scandal about man
or woman, or impute unworthy motives. A dull,
flat life, many will say, but it was his for mor-e
than half a century and he seemed to enjoy it. A
couple of years ago I met A. J. Balfour and the
Bishop of London —Balfour through his habit of
talking to Australians (or anybody else) when he
came into the London Automobile Club to read the
war “tapes,” the Bishop at Lark Hill. The manner
of both of them was oddly familiar. It was like
Barton’s —like that of the few other gentlemen I
have met. Kindliness; a sort of simplicity, the
negation of “side” or pompousness —-the nuance
is too fine to put down in words. It is a mere
emanation, but anyone can identify it when met.
Other gentlemen who figure in a small mental
collection which I possess are an old priest (Irish)
and a friend who drank himself to death years ago
in London. Not many have the luck to meet more
than half a dozen in a lifetime.
Our old legal friend Six-and-Eightpence
has been re-christened by the high cost of
living. He is now, in an increasing num-
ber of cases, Eight-and-Tenpence.
There is a movement to commemorate
Lawrence Hargrave, the pioneer of flying.
The idea is to inscribe his name on the Ross
Smith monument at Darwin. It would be
like putting the name of Prince Henry of
Portugal on a monument to Cook. Har-
grave deserves a memorial of his own, and
it should be in Sydney, where he was born,
where he worked and died; and where, inci-
dentally, he never managed to get his theories
and experiments taken seriously. It is an
odd reflection on the perspicacity of some-
body in authority that the most suggestive
of Hargrave’s early models are not in an
Australian but in a Berlin museum. A
Sydney monument would, amongst other
things, be a graceful amend to the memory
of a great man whose worth was not recog-
nised till long after he had died.
It says something for the mental calibre
of the N. S. Wales bench that of the first
nine honor-men who took the medal, first
offered in 1856, for the most distinguished
candidate in the Arts examination in Classics
at Sydney University, no less than six be-
came Judges—Windeyer, Griffith, Murray,
Barton, Sly and Backhouse. Griffith and
Murray were, if not the most brilliant, at
least the most versatile of them all: they
took the medal (the examiners being unable
to separate them) in Maths as well as Clas-
sics, and the amazing Griffith did it also in
Chemistry and Experimental Physics. There
was another brilliant man of that generation
who also reached the bench—Frank Rogers;
but his specialty was Physics. He is the
only man who ever got a distinguished can-
didate medal from Sydney Uni. in that sub-
ject on taking his M.A. degree.
John Monash has spoken the usual
kindly, friendly words about the splendid
Australian Army. They were deserved, of
course; yet Australia mustn’t get into the
way of thinking it has solved the problem
of defence. It hasn’t even begun to approach
the problem. There is a phrase one meets
in history when reading about the Peasants’
War in Germany or the Jacquerie in France
or the futile efforts of the Covenanters in
Scotland —“the brave but helpless peasants
were mown down like sheep.” If the next
war happens to be fought here; and if for
lack of ships or something Good Father Bull
can’t send along rifles and ammunition and
clothes and boots and big guns and airships
and sundries; and if Australia hasn’t
dropped a lot of its silly importing habits
and bogged in at 1000 new kinds of manu-
facture, that is what will be written of our
wonderful army. It may happen this year
or next year or any time. They were no
poor soldiers, those Scots of the Covenant
and Frenchmen of the Jacquerie, and they
were better armed as compared with their
opponents than the Australians would have
been if they had had to fight in the late
war with their own equipment; and the
record is that the old-time heroes were but-
chered like sheep. It is a nasty, mussy end.
Published estimates issued by Sydney’s big-
gest property salesmen are that £4,725,000
worth (paper value) of the sort of property
they deal in was sold in N. S. Wales last
year against £4,000,000 worth in 1918. The
£4,000,000 of property sales in 1918 consisted
of £3,500,000 in Sydney and suburbs, where
the boom is, and £500,000 in the country—
that obscure 500,000 square miles that don t
count, and where the boom isn’t. In 1919
the business consisted of £4,350,000 of land-
jobbing in the bloated city and the congested
suburbs, and £375,000 worth in the country.
The suburban property sales of Sydney in
1919 are set down at £3,200,000, while in
1917 city, suburban and country _ sales all
combined were estimated at £2.257.000.
Strenuous land-dealers and Millions Clubbers
profess to be astonished at the ignorance of
people who call the present movement a
boom, and explain, in the painstaking fashion
of one who teaches a deaf insect the alpha-
bet, that it is “sound and natural progress”;
but if that is the case the unprogressiveness
of the rest of the country must be awful.
Official land valuations take long to prepare
and are only published to the end of 1917.
so they don’t include the really glorious bit
of the Sydney boom. Still, between 1910 and
1917 the value put on land in Greater Syd-
new. where the boom was, increased by
£24,163.000; in all the rest of the State,
where the hoom wasn’t, it increased by
£22,356,000. It wasn’t a question of the
value of improvements. Accoi-ding to the
official estimate Greater Sydney spent
£10.000,000 less on improvements than the
country did, but the value of the land that
the improvements stood on showed nearly
£2,000.000 more expansion. That suggests
that £12.000.000 of the new land values of
Sydney were 800m —which is the seed- of
Burst.
baby etigafjed in the often painful acquisition of
teeth.
The real woinan’s real job, despite the use of
aeroplanes in war and other proofs of a high
civilisation, remains essentially as it was at the
beginning. Her greatest happiness is in being wife
to some man, good, bad or indifferent, and in
mothering something helpless and protecting it, be
it the man or his baby. TO that natural end, if
Australia be in earnest in facing its task of re-
moving the Complication of industrial rivalry in
the ancient and eternal war of the sexes, we must
embark oh a campaign for the immigration of the
best white people of the earth, selecting them for
residence in the best country on earth with as mhcli
care as if we were selecting improvements to stud
flocks and herds. And the first selections should
be of men, to destroy the numerical inequality of
the sexes.
This will not solve the problem for the country
that supplies the men. It will intensify it. But,
if only because ohr needs are so pressing, we are
bound to put our own problem first. Certainly
there Is no call on us to intensify our own by
Bimplifying somebody else’s. And that is what
the present agitation to ship to us some of the
surplus women of England amounts to.


rJames Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange,
Melbourne.]
Of Greater Importance than
The Interstate Commission in 'the majority report stated; —
. - this industry [iron and steel] is the basis of all other
industries, end every country has found it necessary to
encourage its prosperity, not only as it leads to considerable
employment, but because no country can afford to be wholly
dependent on outside sources for a supply of a metal
compared with which gold may even be looked upon as of
secondary importance.’ 4
If a'l the iron and steel goods imported into Australia were made by
work at Australian rates of pay would be given to not less than
Gold
our
own people
30,000 MEN,
who ''oa 1 cl
earn over
£*s*ooo,ooo per year.
Engineers should use only
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND STEEL.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Griffith and I’liilp were both sounded, and
neither would accept the job of Lieut.-Gov.
of Queensland.
The fact that the Northern Territory
Commission has already more than justified
its appointment has given hope to Aus-
tralians in Itabaul, weary of military mis-
rule, that there will be a Judge Ewing left
to inquire into ex-German New Guinea
affairs from the time of the occupation.
Private wireless talks of agitation there-
for. A commission at Itabaul will find the
one thing the Territory scandal lacked—
woman in the case.
Curses come home to roost. For many
years the Radical Lilley was Chief Justice
of Queensland, and the Right-thinking People
took all sorts of care that the job of Acting-
or Lieut.-Governor never fell into his hands.
Instead, the practice of appointing the Pre-
sident of the Leg. Council to the job was
firmly established. Now, when there is an-
other sort of Chief Justice, there is, of course,
a howl because Pope Cooper is not to carry
on when his Ex. Goold-Adams leaves.
A recent estimate is that it will take
£5,000,000,009 to repair France alone. That
sort of bill, plus the slaughter of women and
children, comes of having the war in your
own country instead of in the other fel-
low’s country. Yet there is a crowd which
urges Australia never to fight unless the war
comes right here, and to scrap amid the ruins
of our own cities rather than those of Berlin
if we must scrap amid ruins. There is a
great gag about defending hearth and homo ;
but only a fool waits till the home is ashes
and the hearth red }iot and the cat a cinder.
From a N.S.W. roundsman :
The voting at the Federal election in the Ma
State, especially in the country districts, has im-
planted a sickly fear in many Nationalists, and
they reckon that Holman is. the Jonah. Wade’s job—
that is, his late job—offers an easy way out at the
country’s expense, and the proposal is that Holman
should go vhile the going is good, handing over the
thorny Premiership t« George Fuller, who has, it
is thought, a stronger country following. Although
Holman has been often credited with a burning
desire to go to London and shine in English poli-
ties, he baulks now that the opportunity is yawning.
Fuller and Garland, leaders of the old Liberal sec-
tion, are sticking to him, and Davy Hall is praying
he will stop and fight it out here. Davy might be
persuaded to take the London job himself. James,
Minister for Education, is like-minded. So a mod-
ley of intriguing results. Should Fuller become
Premier there will be a shuffle of portfolios. The
nnti-Holmanites intend that Hall and Fitzgerald—•
ex-Laborites —shall be dumped ; but Ashford can stay
on if he wants to. Me intime the muddle has been
aggravated by the Farmers’ party contemptuously
rejecting Holman’s oveitures for co-operation, as
the row in the National dovecote arises from the
knowledge of country members that Cocky never has
had any love for Holman. The latter is, however,
the most agile man the polities of this State have
ever known, and he may find a dry spot again ; but
tlie odds are that he will have to roost high to
escape a flood at the next election,
N. S. Wales’ most-postponed measure seems
to be more a D.V. than a V.D. Act.
A considerable section of so-called Nation-
alist opinion in Victoria advocates the settle-
ment of the N.T. by colored labor, claiming
that it is better to have indentured colonists
than none at all. But Gippsland, the most
potentially-wealthy part of Victoria, is no
more “settled” than the Northern Territory.
Let these people begin at home and propose
the Asiatic colonisation of Gippsland.
The letter of “Basil D.” :
About 70 miles west of Cobar I came upou a broad,
straight clearing about 70yds. wide. I discovered
tiiat it was part of the once-projected Cobar-
Wilcaunia railway. There was a cutting in one
place and in another a few sleepers and poles were
rotting. Another few thousands thrown away !
Well, N. S. Wales has 15 railways that ai-e
worse than that. They were finished, and
they earn no interest, and part of the work-
ing expenses have to be met out of taxes.
The bare spot 70 miles west of Cobar costs
nothing except interest. God bless it ! M ould
that Ilolman’s State had more quiet, cheap
places like it!
So far Victoria reports that it has spent
£3,874.004 of loan money in putting sold.ers
on 500,935 acres of purchased land. Decem-
ber was a specially busy month in which
109,875 acres were bought. This area in-
cluded one property of 33,000 acres, one of
10,000 and eight between 1000 and 7000 acres
each. The other 135 “estates” averaged 200
acres each —in other words, it was a case of
bribing one small farmer to get off so that
another, probably less experienced, might go
on. Tlie few big, but not very big, proper-
ties which suggested something in the way of
closer settlement were located in dry places
where close settlement is a very doubtful
business, and the others were closely settled
already. The Government comes out of this
muddle of chopping and changing with a
huge debt and probably, through getting a
less knowledgeable class of settlers, with less
production than before. And the foreign pro-
fiteer who charges the community what he
darned well pleases for almost everything it
drinks and wears, and many things it cats,
and most things it works or furnishes wil.li,
hasn’t had his monopoly shifted an inch. In
fact, the Anzac tweed factory still potters
along with five looms working.
CINDERELLA.
[?]MAN : “The ungratefulness of the hussy! Wanting to come to the dance, indeed!
After me being kind enough to give her an invitation, too!”
Vie. Parliament has been prorogued till
Feb. 18, and the recess is to be lengthened
month by month —probably till supply is ex-
hausted in July. The Age. with its tongue in
its cheek, talked of a summer session, but
the Ministry knows a thing or two better
than to summon a House that would make a
noose for it in January or February, but
will be quite manageable in June or July, as
it has to face the electors not later than
November. Before the House re-assembles
more than one new Minister may be appoin-
ted. Clarke is not keen on sticking to office,
and there is a vacancy for an lion. Minister
in the House of Plush.
It has been demonstrated that methylated
spirit is quite good enough to run motor-
cars with. It can be made from molasses,
and, as large quantities of Australian
molasses are used only for manure and fur-
ther large quantities are not used at all.
and as the sugar industry badly wants a
new source of revenue—well, what about
it? For a start, the Government might con-
sider certain trading conditions: methylated
spirit is imported ’“free under regulation.”,
which is vague, but if made here it pays an
excise duty of Is. per gallon, and that isn’t
vague. The excise duty is presumably to
discourage the local industry and gladden
the Yankees who send us oil. Still, if the
Government's attention is respectfully drawn
to the matter and it has a year or two for
deep thinking, it may consent to remove the
official curse from the industry.
After Sydney Council had failed to agree
upon a mayor—the voting was persistently
13-13 —the Governor-in-Council had to make
the appointment; and naturally he didn’t
disturb the old man. The deadlock has set
“reformers” calling for a mayor elected by
the whole body of ratepayers. This is sup-
posed to be the only democratic method. It
is nothing of the kind. The present
plan is no more undemocratic than the
appointment of a dustman by the Council,
An elective council must surely be entitled
to do something without bumping against
democratic principles. As a matter of fact,
there are lots of things the crowd isn’t best
qualified to express an opinion about, be-
cause it hasn’t got the necessary knowledge
and isn’t in a position to ever get it. If
for the mayoralty a man is wanted who can
splash money, get. his name well known and
make a fine appearance on an electioneering-
platform, the elective system is best. The
chances are that, as often happens in S.
Aus., the largest, fattest potentate of the
town will then, when it suits him, scramble
for the chair and the limelight without hav-
ing done any of the hard graft as a common
councillor. But if a capable administrator
is wanted, the men who have had a close
view of the candidates’ qualifications in the
council had better be left with the job of
picking him.
Queensland’s harried I’remier-Treasurer,
who lias a busy time these days dodging un-
employed deputations, has guessed the year’s
deficit at £1,093,727 ; but it may prove more.
It is to be provided for by increased rail-
way fare's and by adding about £1 per head
pci- annum to taxes, making them about £5.
An impassioned supporter took the chance
to state that the only thing that will do
Queensland any good at this crisis is a
lot more loan money—like the old worn-out
Mormon who reckoned what he needed was
a few more wives. The position is that,
the burden of supporting lame enterprises
built with loans has multiplied Queensland
taxes in the Ryan-Theodiore days about four-
fold-—:2ss. per head to 100 s. If it is a sum
in aucl .non the tax burden will be £8 15s.
per inhabitant by 1925, but if it is a multi-
niication sum it will be t'l s per head -m
1925 and £125 per head in 1930. This paper
doesn't Know which it is. A man sees ten
snakes after drinking one bottle of rum in
an hour. Therefore he may see 100 snakes
after drinking 100 bottles in 100 hours, or
if they multiply as he proceeds he. may see
10,000. Or he may be dead Queensland
being a hard-drinker it is difficult to fix
the rules of the game.
The United States, after a good deal of
the Direct Action and Perth Labor Con-
ference sort of talk, has lost its temper. It
is not only rounding up its Paul Freeman
and its Peter Simonoff by thousands,
but it is laying for advertising philan-
thropists and politicians who sympathised
with them. It lias fallen with considerable
crash on its Considine. the Bolshevik con-
sul, and even suspended its Worker. A
high-strung nation, disturbed just as it was
getting a profitable new line of beef-extract
on the market is apt to go off pop like that.
For most of the scandalous mishandling
of things in the Northern Territory the
officials are less to blame than successive
Commonwealth Governments which have
broken their agreement with S. Aus. to com-
plete the transcontinental line. Since with-
out that line it is, for instance, practically
impossible for .Judges to go there on circuit,
a resident man uau to be' appointed for the
job; and because there wasn’t enough judg-
ing to be done to keep him busy even up to
breakfast time, he was given other jobs
that a Judge shouldn’t have, and even then
wasn’t half-employed- S. Australia long ago
realised that a resident Judge in the small
isolated community wasn't likely to be long
a success, so Judge Wearing was sent up to
hold a court: and it was rotten luck that he
travelled bv the Gothenburg and was lost
when that vessel was wrecked on the Bar-
rier. That big tragedy was one of the worst
things that ever happened to the Territory*:
the place was isolated thereafter more than *
ever, no other visiting Judges’ lives were
risked, and for years the judicial job was
done by a resident lay official.
A cable mentioned last Friday that they
begin to talk of £2O for an ordinary suit of
clothes in Merrie England. It is an in-
teresting example of the ruinous behavior of
the Freetrade system in adversity. A tariff
is, amongst other things, the most reliable in-
surance against insanities like £2O suits, and
rationed bread, butter and sugar, all of which
England has known since the war began.
Carrying out his promise in Parliament
Lawson has asked the Colonial Office,
through Irvine, to hang up the appointment
of a Governor in succession to Stanley until
August so that Martin Hannah, Toutcher
and the others who feel strongly on the sub-
ject may take a vote in the Assembly next
session. But it is not expected that Milner
will comply unless a louder noise is made ;
and the leaders of the A.N.A. are preparing
to make it.
“Billjim”: I note that the wire-netting
factory at Pentridge prison, which resumed
business nine months ago, is now working
“at its top” and turning out large quantities
of rabbit-proofing. The demand by farmers
is still beyond the supply, largely be-
cause the netting is much cheaper than the
.scarce supplies available in war-time and
because Henry Haywhiskers can get the
Government product on tick, the payments
covering nine years. I wonder if the Gov-
ernment would start boot factories on the
same plan. Nine months credit would do
me, instead of nine years. My boots are just
as necessary to me as the netting is to the
farmer; and though I don’t want to skite
I believe I’m just as necessary to the coun-
try as the farmer is.
From a Vic. Gallery Hand: —
Lawson is wondering whether a measure of recon-
struction will save him from a flank attack when the
House next meets. The Cabinet is presumed to bo
too serious and sedate, and it is considered that
Peacock would cheer it up. It is said that if
Baird, Oman, Hutchinson and McPherson could make
way for the Laugh and two or three others, Lawson
would be guaranteed another slice of peace and
goodwill. The quartette are mentioned because their
> clipse would he welcome to many, though if oniv
Peacock supplanted McPherson discontent would be
adjourned regarding the others. Somehow McPherson
hasn’t the gift of stimulating friendship in the
great. Further, he is accused of a weakness for
imported brains, and is understood to have selected
during his recent English trip a railway commis-
sioner to whom Robinson, M.L.C., will offer the
Government maximum in the way of salary.
The unseemly internal squabble about the
alleged faking of Labor-selection ballots is
on as usual. At Goulburn (N.S.W.) it is
alleged that the nominations to carry the
banner of political purity for next election
were decided by “750 mysterious postal
votes” which the scrutineers weren’t allowed
to See and which they darkly suspect of being
all from Smith of Dingbat Hollow. It is
also complained that the ballot was taken
at the wrong place by the wrong man .at no
fixed date except the one that suited him ; in
fact, it seems to be implied that the business
was if possible worse than usual, and was
so high-handed that Freedom shrieked on
learning the particulars, has shroke con-
tinuously since, and doesn’t expect to stop.
The Labor emperors at Sydney, of course,
disqualified or sacked th.e Goulburn union,
which insisted that that sort of ballot wasn’t
good enough, convicting it of lese-majeste
without trial.
The big importing firms don’t show much
discretion. They seem to engage their Eng-
lish buyers on their ability to write political
articles; and Australian Freetrade rags
eagerly give their outpourings an honored
place. Yet nine times out of 10 the writer
says the Cold Country is in a bad way and
will go to the Devil if there isn’t increased
production. Of course, Australia is suffering
from the same ills, which only the same medi-
cine can cure. But apparently it doesn’t
matter whether Australia goes to the Devil
or not.
Is Australia the refuge of Maoriland’s
undesirables: It was reported last week
that Michael Blarney, expelled from the
Dominion, wanted to return there from Aus-
tralia, but the authorities at Wellington
replied that Australia was good enough for
him, or he was giood enough for it. Also it
was mentioned that Moses Baritz, an unpro-
ductive lecturer, had been ordered to quit
and had sailed on the Moeraki, so anna-
rently it is. or was, intended that Australia
should have Moses also. It is a good rule
that every factory should consume its own
smoke.
THE HAPPY LUNATIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Customs receipts for the last six months,
which amounted to £9,577,427, constitute a record.
Massy Greene, Minister for Customs, expressed aa'.is-
iaction at the steady growth of the Gusto, .is
rei enue.”
Poor Brown is hopelessly insane,
As mad as any hatter;
His friend i, though feeling bitter pain,
Are helpiess in the matter;
For Brown, the loony ! glows with pride,
And is, indeed, delighted,
: 'cause he has affixed outside
His hone a sign: “I will provide:
Housebreakers Are Invited.”
Bill Sike, arri .es in ones and twos,
And all depart with lucre.
Though Brown to none will coin refuse,
He hope-i the crowd to euchre ;
And so the freedom of the seize
He gra ts upon condition
The rcblars pay him entrance fees!
Brown .itinks he’s growing rich on these
Small charges for admission !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


LEAGUE
OF
NATIONS
A FAMILY PARTY.
UNCLE SAM: “No, John, I’m not goin’ in there if you take the boys with you.”
TOHN B.: “It’s time you did some thinking, Samuel. You’ve got as much reason to stick to them as I have. You’ve heard of the Pacific, haven’t you?”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED,
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered AS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in tlie following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
It. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of hew South Wales
wh.-n seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a touiist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
Address: 279 George Street, Sydney.s.b,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :
Ex- Writ- Added
Sept., Income. Claims, penses. ten Off. Funds.
1906.. £824,624 £395,733 £145,836 £283,055
1907.. 898,253 374,809 157,512 £1993 363,939
1908.. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909.. 1,043,801 449,957 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176,344 4744 502.464
1912.. 1,284,304 520,249 174,664 2016 587,435
1913.. 1,395,866 511,045 175,031 709,790
1914.. 1,479,109 591,062 177,4'91 710,556
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 692,440
1916.. 1,663,128 763,001 168,805 731,322
1917.. 1,770,371 846,497 182,271 741,003
1918.. 1,921,765 876,989 204,737 840,039
1919. . 2,116,562 1,063,275 237,716 815,571
The National Mutual has two features
rather uncommon to Australian life offices.
It is one of the very few which have made
a hit outside their home fields; besides being
established in all States and Maoriland, it
also operates throughout Great Britain and
Ireland, in India and Ceylon, S’Africa and
the Straits Settlements. Further, it does
no Industrial business whatever, and though
Industrial is poor insurance at best, it
proves a useful feeder to the Ordinary
branch. Nevertheless, in spite of this dis-
ability, the National Mutual is plunging
ahead in great style nowadays. When a
million of income showed up for the first
time in one term the N.M.L.A. had been in
business 40 years; but those figures have
been more than doubled during the 10 years
since. Increased interest earnings have, of
course, helped, as this comparison shows: —
Gross
Interest Rates Net Inter-
and Rents, and Taxes, est Return.
1909 . . £266,250 £8,527 £257,723
1914 . . 418,326 13,624 404,702
1918 . . 597,218 34,330 562,888
1919 . . 653,939 27,160 626,779
So £309,057 of the £1,072,701 increase in
income since 1909 has come from additional
net earnings of investments.
During 1918 the National Mutual put a
record lot of new business on its books:
11.885 policies assuring nearly 4J millions.
But that record has been put in the shadow
by the performances of the past year, a crop
of 15,136 new policies assuring £5,630,415
having been reaped. If the management can
hang on to the new policy-holders, this lot
means an addition to annual income of
£234,865. The average amount of assur-
rance per policy is now much higher than
it used to be: 1914, £286; 1918, £363; 1919.
£372.
This shows how the expense rate has be-
haved over some years :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £lB 2 9 p.c. | 1915.. £lO 13 0 p.c.
1910.. 15 0 3 „ 1 1916.. 10 3 0 „
1912.. 13 11 11 ~ | 1917.. 10 5 11 ~
1913.. 12 10 9 „ | 1918.. 10 13 1 „
1914.. 12 0 0 „ | 1919.. 11 4 7 „
Though there are one or two offices which
show a smaller outlay, this rate is satisfac-
tory. The world-wide connection of the
N.M.L.A. naturally tends to make opera-
tions expensive. But an increase in the expense
rate was inevitable for the past year, owing
to the very causes which made it possible to
tow in so large a volume of new business.
Dissection of the figures shows that for the
last 12 months £44 of each £lOO of first year
premiums went in commission, as against £47
in 1918. Business was thus more easily
got; but the prosperity which that seemed to
indicate led to higher costs in other direc-
tions. One method of ascertaining the ap-
proximate total cost of new business is by
assuming that 7 p.c. of renewal premiums
and 3 p.c. of single premiums goes in manag-
ing that business, and that the difference be-
tween the total of these two amounts and
gross expenses represents the cost bf new
business. In that way we get these figures:
Exes. New
Chargeable Business
New to New Expense
Sept., Business. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 . 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1915 .. 118,357 97,229 82.1 „
1916 . . 126.850 96,229 75.8 „
1917 .. 134.198 105.278 78.4 „
1918 .. 176,518 123,430 69.9 „
1919 . . 226,503 151,038 G 6.7 „
That 66.7 p.c. is the N.M.L.A.’s best per-
formance to date. The office has clipped a
little off its expense rate by what at one
time looked a daring innovation. In accept-
ing new business it does not depend on
medical reports to the same extent as
most offices, and whereas something over 8
p.c. o.f new premiums generally flow’s into the
pockets of stethoscope artists, this co. has
reduced its outlay in this manner: —
Proportion of Medical Exes, to New Premiums.
New Medical
Premiums. Exes.
1903 .. £68,456 £7503 10.9 p.c.
1912 . . 120,518 7265 6.0 „
1913 . . 122,897 6737 5.4 „
1914 .. 121,015 6241 5.1 „
1915 .. 118,357 5091 4.3 „
1916 .. 126,850 5463 4.3 „
1917 . . 134,198 6134 4.6 „
1918 .. 176,518 7110 4.0 „
1919 .. 226,503 9531 4.2 „
Twelve months ago, with war risks prac-
tically at an end, prospects from a claims
point of view looked much brighter. But
the ’flu upset anticipations, and the past
year’s claims were £186,286 greater than
for 1918. Last year, for the first time,
the National Mutual paid out over a mil-
lion, making total admitted claims to date
not far short of 104 millions. Last year's
claims rate represented 50.2 p.c. of the
year’s total income, compared with 40 p.c.
for the year prior to the war, and 45.6 p.c.
for 1918. ’Flu accounted for more than the
increase in the past year. However, despite
the unfavorable experience and the slightly
heavier expense, rate, there remained
£3B 10s. Bd. p.c. of total income available
for reserves. Total assurance funds at
Sept. 30 amounted to over 124 millions, with
liabilities under policies' totalling 39 j mil-
lions.
There have been-considerable changes in
the composition of this office’s assets since
the war began. Then the management was
strong on mortgages. But the moral obliga-
tion to invest in War Loans has effected
these alterations: —•
1900. 1910. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Public secu-
rities .. 3.4 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 6.9p.c. 23.8p.c. 29.4 p.c.
Mortgages 50.5 ~ 55.1 „ 59.3 ~ 49.1 ~ 44.1 „
Foreclos-
ures . . 4.4 ~ 1.3 ~ 0.6 ~ 0.3 ~ 0.3 „
Freeholds 12.7 „ 12.8 „ 9.9 „ 7.4 „ 6.5 „
Loans on
policies 14.3 ~ 9.8 ~ 9.4 ~ 8.5 ~ 8.1 „
Other as-
sets . . 14.7 „ 15.9 „ 13.9 „ 10.9 „ 11.6 „
The management has bought war loans so
freely that it has had to pawn several years’
prospective surpluses; and that was a
safe enough thing to do. Of the 34 millions
of Government securities held at the latest
balance it owed instalments amounting to
£437.960. Not only are the assets a much
better lot than they used to be, but the in-
terest return has improved steadily:—
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900.'. £4 13 2 p.c. 1917.. £4 17 3 p.c.
1910. . 4 12 3 „ 1918.. 4 19 9 „
1914.. 4 16 8 „ 1919.. 5 3 5 „
That is an extra 6s. 9d. p.c. compared with
five years ago, and it means £42,000 per
annum on present funds.
* * * *
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.: —
Nov.,’ Profit. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1909.. £3,418
Reserves.
1910. . £44,764 74 p.c. = £37,500 £7,264 3,846
1911.. 49,048 74 „ „ 37,500 11,548 15,394
Premiums on shares . . 91 15,485
1912.. 49,645 74 p.c. = 39,375 10,270 25,755
1913.. 55,071 74 „ „ 41,250 13,821 39,576
Premiums on new shares. . 198 39,774
1914.. 59,989 74 p.c. = 45,375 14,614 54,388
1915.. 67,342 124 „ „ 75,625 46,105
1916.. 68,228 74 „ „ 45,375 22,853 68,958
1917.. 81,186 10 „ „ 60,500 20,686 89,644
1918.. 90,571 124 „ „ 75,625 14,946 104,590
1919.. 100,866 124 „ „ 75,625 25,241 129,831
But when the eye glides down the Profit
column, it is just as well to remember that
£lOO,OOO of capital has been got in since the
co. was formed. Even so it has been an
amazing performance. The idea at the back
of the long heads of Henry Jones and Ach.
Palfreyman when they crossed over to Aus-
tralia to form the co. was a good one- —good
from the public’s as well as from their own
point of view. There were competing jam
cos. which overlapped in various ways—sent
out two or three travellers where one would
do, and while one brought fruit or pulp from
Tasmania to Victoria another was shipping
other fruit or pulp from Victoria to Tasmania.
Also, no individual co. was strong enough
to enter heartily into an export trade. The
promoters left the old jam cos. as they were,
merely buying all or most of the shares in
them. It doesn’t own a pot of jam itself;
but it owns the cos. that own a million pots.
One result of this arrangement is that, apart
from War-loan investments und amounts due
by subsidiary cos., the only asset shown in
the balance-sheet is “Investments at cost,”
said investments being “shares and interests
in jam manufacturing and fruit cos. and tim-
ber mills in the Commonwealth of Australia,
South Africa and England.” Also, apart
from War-loan interest and “income earned
outside the Commonwealth,” dividends from
subsidiary cos. are the only revenue. How
much (if anything) these cos. have kept up
their sleeves, how much (if anything) they
have in reserve, and how much they (and
therefore this co.) owe are matters you
mustn’t know. Seeing that he gets 12i p.c.
and that another 4 p.c. is put by, the share-
holder isn’t likely to make much fuss about
it. Especially when the directors’ fees don’t:
amount to more than £3ooTor the year. Per-
haps they get a pound or two from subsi-
diary cos.; but —well, there’s 161 p.c. left.
So if there is any kicking to be, done it
isn't the shareholders’ toes that the directors
fear.
Without a doubt a point can lie reached
when kicking may be apprehended. Yet the
promoters were perhaps more nervous about
it 10 years ago, when the co. was in the
incubator, than they are now. Their anxiety
was exhibited in the title they chose—or in
the “co-operative” part of it. They wanted
to disarm the critic in advance. No doubt
some few growers and retailers did come
into the co.; but the number of shares they
hold must be almost as negligible as the
“strawberry” in the cases that the Diggers
got. From the public point of view the
question is “Are we benefiting as much by
the Ao-operation as we are losing by the
absence of competition?” The investor must
ask himself what is likely to happen if the
profits and the dividends mount much higher,
lie may perhaps look at the O.S.R. and
decide that, no matter how dizzy the profits
may be, nothing will happen. It should, but
somehow it doesn’t —if the management is
clever enough. And on that score this co.
need not fear comparison with any.
As remarked above, the co. distinguishes
income derived outside Australia from the
balance. Last year it was £15,330, and out
of that the directors paid the odd 21 p.c. The
implication is that the Australian public
doesn’t pay any of this, and that the profits
and the dividends which Australia pays are
not so ravenous, after all. Well, anyone
who will manufacture Australia’s surplus
raw products and find a profitable foreign
market deserves three cheers. The only
nigger in that woodpile is that, while Aus-
tralia has a surplus of fruit, it often hasn’t
a surplus of sugar. Indeed it is mainly be-
cause of the enormous quantity of jam made
and exported to the Australian and other
armies during the last few years that mother
at home has been frequently so hard up for
sugar that she hasn’t been able to boil her
bit of fruit. Nor is it any use telling the jam-
maker to import his sugar for export jam
in bond : his trouble is that he can’t do it at
anything like the present fixed Australian
price. Sooner or later that price will go
up ; and in order to keep it from going so
high that export will be out of the question,
this co. is taking a hand in putting the beet-
sugar industry on a better footing. That
and the establishment of a canning factory
in California are the two big things that
this splendidly energetic co. has in hand at
the moment; and for both of them this paper
moves, seconds and carries unanimously a
vote of thanks.
# * * *
Central Railway Palace Buildings,
Ltd., which runs the Hotel Sydney:—
Loss. Deficit. Profit. Deficit.
£1938 £8893
Apl., ’14.. £ll5l 3089 Apl., ’17.. £BB4 8009
Oct 'l4 1473 4562 Oct., ’17,. 176 7833
a i -it" n-9 tfiQA Apl., ’lB.. 2546 5287
Apl., 15.. 10/2 5634 Oct., ’lB.. 2623 2664
Oct., 10.. 1844 7478 Apl., T 9.. 1447 1217
Apl., ’l6. . 584 8062 Reserves.
Oct., TO.. 831 8893 | Oct., T 9.. 7297 6080
The Hotel Sydney did surprisingly well dur-
ing the past six months. Gross trading pro-
fits were £17,954, or £7238 more than for
the previous ’flu-stricken half, and an im-
provement of £5378 on the figures shown
12 months ago. And as expenses for the
latest run were only £l6OO more than those
of a year ago, net profits have taken a big
leap. If the co. can continue to do as well
there is going to be a fine feast for share-
holders. Paid capital consists of £39,905
8 p.c. £1 cum. prefs. and only 5000 £1 ordi-
naries, all of them issued to the vendors of
the 50 years’ leasehold from the City Coun-
cil. Of the present net profits the directors
have appropriated £5978 for the payment of
pref. dividends which had accumulated to
October, 1915. There will then remain
£12.784 of arrears on these shares to make
good. Just at present the co. is not actu-
ally distributing the dividends declared on
the pref. shares. It has been carrying such
a load of outside debt —shareholders could
not be coaxed into putting up further capital
a few years ago —that all cash available has
been used to reduce mortgages and the over-
draft. During the half-year £4600 was wiped
off the first mortgage, and since the accounts
closed the second mortgage of £4OOO has been
extinguished. Further, during the six months
the bank overdraft was reduced by £llO6. All
this will assist: future profits by lessening
the interest bill. Over the past five years
this improvement has shown up in the co.’s
liquid position:—
1914. 1919.
Liabilities .. . . £56,532 £52,555
Liquid assets .. . . 1,820 8,941
Excess liabilities .. £54,712 £43,614^
Those figures do not take into account the
£18,762 of deferred pref. dividends. The
Hotel Sydney is a concern of much better
profit-earning capacity now than it was five
years ago. Until about 18 months back it
was a dry house, for though at the beginning
the directors thought they would have no
difficulty in securing a license, they had to
put up a long and expensive fight and secure
a special amendment of the Liquor Act be-
fore the drought was smashed. Apparently
it: cost something over £lO,OOO to buy out a
side-street pub and transfer the liquor to its
own fount.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. I’rofit.
Nov., 1911.. £452,336 £381,730 £70,606
Mav, 1912.. 537,378 349.985 18, ,393
Nov., 1912.. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913.. 496,936 351,973 144,963
May, 1914.. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63,536
Mav, 1915.. 503,018 400,215 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478,395 168,643
Mav, 1916.. 617,754 499,616 118,138
Nov., 1916.. 643,990 502,475 141,515
Mav, 1917.. 657,387 489,697 167,690
Nov., 1917.. 625,161 500,317 124,844
Mav, 1918.. 608,822 480,917 127,905
Nov., 1918.. 548,485 462,000 86,485
May, 1919.. 426,466 401,310 25,156
Nov., 1919.. 495,982 402,648 93,333
Out of the half-year’s profit a dividend of
Is. per share was paid at the end of Septem-
ber; and a further Is. was paid on December
10. Owing to the breakdown of Hughes’s
plans for “the solution of the metal problem”
the quantity of copper on hand increased
rapidly in the earlier half of last year. As
at November 30, 3018, there was in store
2230 tons of metal, which, as usual, was
valued at £55 per ton, though it cost more
than that to produce. At the end of the
next half-year (to May 31) 3788 tons were
banked up; and this extra 1558 tons were
also taken into account at £55 per ton,
which was again less than cost of produc-
tion.- In the past half-year the Copper
Producers’ Association had a little more
success iu marketing, and stocks were
reduced to 2087 tons, so that 801 tons in
excess of production were sold. The aver-
age price realised was £96 18s.. so that
approximately £83,000 of. the profit shown
for (he past half-year was gained at the
expense of the previous half. In other
words, the May surplus was under-stated
and the past half-year’s over-stated by that
amount. On the other hand, in the past
half-year a larger quantity of concentrates
was produced than was smelted; and the
accounts do not show what (if any) credit
has been taken for these stored concentrates.
Generally speaking, comparatively little im-
portance can be attached to the figures fur-
nished for any individual half-year. One
must be guided rather by a general view
of the results. And then one lias to make
allowances for the higher costs now ruling.
During the past half-year, for instance, the
Arbitration Court granted increases to
miners and others involving an additional
expenditure of £22,000 p.a. ; and if other
claims now before the Court are granted a
further £ll,OOO will be called for.
The smelting output for the half-year was
2749 tons fine copper and 41.1910 z. gold.
The total outgoings were £402.648, equal
to £146 per ton of copper. The value of
the gold was approximately £6l per ton of
copper, which would make the cost of the
copper £B5 per ton. But it was probably not
so much as that, on account of the value
of the concentrates produced during the
half-year and in hand. Nevertheless it is
obvious that costs are still very high, and
are likely to be higher, for no variation in
the process of treatment promises any large
reduction to counterbalance higher wage-
costs. As at November 80 there were liquid
assets £543,732 in excess of liabilities, say.
1 Is. per share; and the reserves of ore were
3,538,204 tons, besides an unknown quan-
tity of ore not reckoned as reserves, but
from which 63.493 tons were drawn last
half-year—about 42 p.c. of the total extrac-
tion of 146.181 tons. Last half-year less
than normal —or what used to be normal —
was broken, on account of strikes and other
impediments; but if 100,000 tons were
drawn from reserves per half-year there
would be enough measured up to last nearly
38 years. A lot depends, of course, upon
the extent to which the ores outside the
reserves can be used; and that is largely
a question of metal prices and costs.
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and
Dairy Produce Export Co. (Maoriland) :
, —Dividends—
Pref. Ord. Written
Nov., Profit. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. Off. Reserves.
1909.. £17,493 £4500 £6,523 £3,500 £36,204
8 p.c.
1910.. 45,944 4500 8,698 15,972 49,978
1911.. 21,946 4500 8,698 4,613 54,113
1912.. 24,852 4500 8,698 4,340 61,427
1913.. 45,412 4500 5.698 15,073 78,568
Premiums on new shares, £2B .. 78,596
1914.. 28,226 4500 8,704 7,335 86,283
1915.. 53,044 5215 8,704 1,169 124,239
11 p.c.
1916.. 40,633 6000 11,975 3,856 143,041
Premiums on new shares, £734 .. 143,775
1917.. 25,090 6000 12,230 3,381 147,254
10 p.c.
1918.. 15,957 6000 11,250 1,534* 144,427
14 p.c.
1919.. 80,815 6000 15,750 G,74S 196,744
No, that £80,815 of profit shown for the past
year is not a misprint. In fact, actual
results may have been even fatter, for the
accounts give profits less provision for taxa-
tion (amount unspecified), and also after
making cuts for depreciation, etc. Maori-
land had never experienced a year like the
one it has had since the Armistice, for
though the seasons have not been all they
might have been —the North had a taste of


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weekly will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking,
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Aluminoferrie and have it clear and crystalline?
Aluininoferric is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from
two to three thousand gallons of most turbid water
within three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [ 1
Modern methods of metal .concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Aiivt. [1
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe;—Letter received from
Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th February,
1919: “lie yours of the 19th instant, in regard to
pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have been
and are still in every way satisfactory, and are quite
suitable for our requirements. The cost of mainte-
nance during the six years of service has been nil. If
we were putting in any further pipe lines, your firm
would certainly be favored with our orders. (Sgd.)
S. Southam, Secretary.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Lid.
(H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors’ to all State Governments. — -Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and wateivsupply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The ever-increasing wages for labor are causing
more attention to be given to mechanical appliances
for saving labor wherever possible. Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, who
maintain a special engineering department for this
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates of
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pro-
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austra-
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Cliem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourn e. ’ ’ —A n vt.
* * # »
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
n* 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Gross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established IDW.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. U. CAVIi. General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALCETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a_basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAR VAN.
Managing Director.
Try AINSLIE WHISKY
DEWHURST & HALLORAN LTD., Agents,
8 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
As Supplied to Royal Navy.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne —Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES. METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVTTED.
drought, while the South got too much mois-
ture —such good prices have been received for
meat and dairy produce under the Imperial
acquisition schemes that producers have had
a great time. And. of course, the big agency
cos. have also reaped their harvest. After
making various allowances and paying the
pref. dividends, this Canterbury co. disclosed
an amount available for the ordinaries equal
to over 32 p.c. of their paid capital.
The table shows that reserves have more
than doubled during the past five years, but
practically half of the increase has resulted
from the past year’s operations. This gives
another view of the wonderful time the co.
has had: —
1909. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities ..£128,655 £83,633 £520,045 £636,197
Works and fixed
assets . . 282,497 270,189 310,688 305,888
Stocks . . 49,868 47,00 S 533,465 615,319
Book debts, etc. 21,734 43,195 57,569 138,484
The balance-sheet totals are now in excess of
a million, practically three times the figures
for 10 years ago. The inflation on both sides
is. of course, due to the abnormal trading
conditions. At the 1009 balance the co.
showed £57.053 of liabilities in excess of
liquid assets, but just after the outbreak of
war there were surplus liquid assets
amounting to £6570. Since then this
surplus has grown to £117.606, an im-
provement of over £lll,OOO in five years.
Taking into consideration capital increases
and the additions to fixed assets, the 1000-14
period showed a book improvement of
£51.171. and for the five years since,
£118,107. After payment of the current
dividends reserves were only £15,800 short
of paid capital : and after allowing for assets
to cover the £lOO.OOO of pref. capital, there
were further net assets worth, so the accounts
say, almost 555. to represent each £1 of ordi-
nary capital.
* * * *
The words of the prophet G. D. Meudell:
The paper-mftney currency of the chief nations of
the world increased sixfold between 1914 and 1919;
that is to say, from one thousand million to six
thousand million pounds! Gold has disappeared from
circulation everywhere, even in the United States,
which corralled Europe’s gold in exchange for food
md munitions. A quick return to the old-time gold
basis would merely double the public debts of
the world and make many of the nations insolvent.
So for the time being it is impracticable. Money
has been falling in value since 1700, and the
drop in the last five years is equal in volume to
the fall in the previous 215.
The buying- power of the sovereign is about 12s.
compared with 20s. in 1914. Labor troubles, un-
rest, discontent and agitation are due to the ter-
rible depreciation in the value of money owing to
this plague of paper money. Through the rnad
race between prices and wages, people with fixed
incomes, pensions, annuities and salaries are suffer-
ing more than wage-earners who have got numerous
“rises” during the past five .years. The intelligent-
sia who have chiefly been suffering are civil servants,
teachers, clerks, various professional men, pensioners
and annuitants. Food, clothing and rent have been
costing more while their salaries and incomes,
mainly drawn from brainwork, have remained sta-
tionary or have been but slightly raised. All these
persons belong to the middle class, as distinct from
the capitalist and laboring classes. They are, in
fact, the buffer between the two fighting classes
who have improved their payments and their savings
right along.
Nor is the end. yet reached. Before the world’s
finances are stabilised gold may go to £8 an oz.
and silver to 10s. And that will render the position
of the middle class, men, women and children (who,
by the way, are the chief sufferers), more intoler-
able than ever. The best hope I can see lies in the
creation of numerous small home industries brought
into being by an enlightened Protective tariff. Here’s
an illustration of what can be done. In Clunes, a
decadent Vic. mining town, an enterprising man
started a knitting-mill to make articles of female
underwear. He now employs 96 hands, mostly local
girls, and sells his output all round Australia, from
Townsville to Perth! There are a thousand things
which can be made, in a small way at first, as is
done in the villages of rural France, keeping the
boys and girls at home in healthy surroundings and
stopping the mad rush to Melbourne, a city that has
suddenly become too small for its population. Then
would the sons and daughters of the middle class
find better-paid occupations than clerkships and
sales-ladyships. Just now that middle class is one
remove from poverty. Very few junior bank-
managers are as well paid as the stevedores, and
no bank clerks are ever so well paid as carpenters,
painters, plumbers or iron-workers.
.*,***
Worried by the Argus because lie did not
publish the amount of the expenditure for
the half-year ended December. Vic. Trea-
surer McPherson got out some figures show-
ing a deficit of £332.000 as compared with
receipts, but in handing out the statement
he said it was worth nothing as a guide to
the complete results of the financial year.
Had he contented himself with pointing out
that his estimate of expenditure for the
whole year was £13,853.097, and that
£6,645.000 had been spent to December 31.
or £281,998 less than half, he would have
given better information. He knows very
well that if revenue continues to come in
at the rate it has been doing he will have
very much more than the surplus of £51,000
he has estimated. Members of the Public
Accounts Committee, more sanguine than
McPherson, predict a surplus of £200,000 on
June 30. But they never mention loan out-
goings. though ip that regard the Vic. experi-
ence is the best in Australia. #
South Aus. is wondering how it can in-
crease its revenue at the expense of the New-
castle steel works. For years past the
Broken Hill Prop, has held leases covering
about 800 acres of iron-ore bearing country
at Iron Knob and Hummocky Hill, whence
supplies are drawn for the Newcastle works.
The Crowland Government gets a royalty.
Recently, however, a further deposit was
discovered near Iron Knob, and now the
parochial State Frighter in Adelaide is
howling that N. S. Wales is building up a
profitable industry at the expense of South
Aus.. and is imploring his politicians to look
into the matter “before signing away a field
which may be worth millions.”
The Broken Hill cos. expected that the
squabbling unions would immediately after
the holidays take steps to end the strike,
which has lasted eight months. In expec-
tation of that they kept various jobs gouig.
and before the holidays put on other men—
tradesmen mostly : it is only the Bolshevik-
bossed A.M.A. which won’t work. How-
ever, as the miners gave no sign of being
sick of it all, the cos. intimate that they
can’t keep unproductive work going; and
they will apply to the Mines Department
for six months’ suspension of labor cov-
enants. The deplorable stoppage of industry
in one of the richest sections of Australia
should not be permitted to continue any
further without the public being fully in-
formed as to the facts. Either the Com-
monwealth should send up Higgins, J., to
inquire and report promptly; or J. I>.
Holme, who made the recent searching in-
vestigation into Sydney Ferries, should be
given the job by the State.
Down and out is Edna May at Westonia.
so the pumps and plant stuck on the mine
at a cost of £45,000 go to the hammer this
month. This means that Giblin, of the
Central, has to make up his mind for his
co. and the Mines Department what bits of
machinery he and it need to keep the field
from floating on to the rocks. Edna May
had to lift OO.OOOgals. an hour. It would
have been more had not Giblin done his
bit at the Central shaft. Now he is on
his own, save that Minister Scaddan backs
him up to the tune of £4OO monthly; but
there is no assurance that in the hard-up
state of W.A. finance the bonus will last
long. Meantime a few men are keeping
levels open and driving west at No. 5 to
pick up the Consolidated shoots. The Deeps
is grubbing oir. Stuckey has a hazing job
through having to punch his way on to
better stone in order to escape calls, at the
same time making sure that the Edna May
water doesn’t trickle through into, his work-
ings. Little 1 Consolidated may drift out of
the Whitfield scheme and try to get its stone
out by the use of a Golden Point shaft.
That would be better than parting up 355.
a ton to the Central under a tribute arrange-
ment.
* * * *
Out of the Hampton Plains flutter rises
Slavin’s White Hope, once regarded as a
winged blue-duck by some of the exalted
among W.A. experts. So Lionel Robinson,
Clark and Co. slip in to buy the 7000 un-
issued 10s. shares at 20s. each and secure
a call over 40.000 new shares at the same
price till the end of March. This is a neat
stroke of business. Suppose the 7000 shares
are sold at or about the price bought. Then
the firm has the call of 40,000 shares in a
developing show for three months for nil.
No wonder Lionel Robinson and Clark count
in millions.
Herbert .T. Daly, having done his war-ldt
in the hospitals in France after flirting with
Art, is back at the old game of mine-exam-
ination. This time the draw is Hampton
Plains, so he is on familiar ground. Though
it isn’t verified, the whisper goes round Mel-
bourne that Daly has sampled the Celebra-
tion. If it was before Lionel Robinson, Clark
and Co.’s float, then he must hhve said some-
thing good. If after the float, there is a
reason why London is barking after shares
at 80s. One bit of business Daly certainly
has pulled through is the L.R., C. and Co.
deal with Slavin’s White Hope. The co. is
to he reconstructed, and all the shares, in-
stead of being Is. paid, will be made 10s.
paid, with the register expanded from 80.000
to 160.000 shares. Of the additional 80.000
L.R.. C. and Ckx get the call of 40.000 at 20s.
till the middle of March and the co. estab-
lishes a London branch office. The very
fact of the firm buying has made a hot mar-
ket in White Hopes, So the 7000 shares it
bought at 20s. can be sold with ease, giving
L.R., C. and Co. the call of 40,000 shares
for nothing. It’s an old dog for a hard road.
Now that Lake View and Oroya is flush of
money one of its unfortunate pups, the
Yuanmi (W.A.I, is hopeful of getting some
financial help. Boomed by Hoover and others,
the shares of this co. soared for a while, but
as results fell far short of expectations the
market collapsed, and for some time onera-
tions have been carried on at a loss. With
capital, however, it is alleged that this can
be overcome. But there ought to be a
thorough overhaul first: reconstructions in
cases of this kind rarely turn out well, and
are too often brought about to keep directors
in their jobs and allow insiders to quit.
Last year’s Westralian gold output was
734,06G0z. fine, 150,0000 z. less than the 1919
figures, and far and away the lowest for any
year this century. Strikes at Kalgoorlie
were responsible for much of the decrease,
and falling off of returns from other centres
and the absence of any from some accounted
for the balance. Hampton Plains will help
this year, but as Westonia, Meekatliarra,
Laverton and other one-time prosperous dis-
tricts are under a cloud, a substantial im-
provement can hardly be expected.
*■ * * *
Ida 11. (W.A.) is said to be on its death-
bed. Worked by an English co., this mine
produced a lot of gold and paid good divs.
for years. Then heavier developmental ex-
penditure, entailed by the sharp dip of the
shoots, and other outlay which should have
been avoided, landed the co. in debt. In-
different management did the rest.
• * * •
The tip that Laloki is a sweet thing seems
to be confirmed by John L. Wharton’s esti-
mates of the ore in sight. This is given as
350,000 tons for the two mines, Laloki and
Dubuna, and 300.000 tons of it bulks 51
p.c. copper and 21dwt. gold. 'Seeing that
even North Lyell average is only 0 p.c. copper
with smaller gold contents, Laloki looks all
right. Besides, the blend is choice, the
sulphur and iron contents being high—just
the sort of metallurgical pie the smel-
ter gloats over. Wharton’s programme is to
hustle up the railway to the coast —a 12-
mouths’ job—and pop a small 6000-ton-a-
-month smelter on the ground. To do this
cash is necessary, so a £50,000 issue is to be
made. With Collins House going so strong
that sum won’t be difficult to get, especially
as London wants a bite.
The flutter in New Golden Fleece saved
Bendigo from a blank dividend-list for 1919.
But it was the narrowest of squeaks, as
the Golden Fleece could pan out only £1822.
Against that one wee mite the old field
had a call-list of £63.258. As the gold out-
put was 63,1150 z. it follows that, instead of
the old record of £1 of dividend for every
ounce won, there was £1 of calls. Up to
1914 the field always set a big div. list
against calls, but from that year the gold
yield has dropped roughlv by 100,000 oz. —
it was 63,1150 z. for 1919 against 161,330
for 1914. The merging scheme took mines
like the Constellation and Carlisle out of
the race for divs. by ear-marking their pro-
fits to assist mines in the prospecting
stage. In spite of the skill of Dyason and
Moline, the big co. has strained under its
burden on account of its yields tapering
all round. Its record for the year is
46,5110 z. from 110,326 tons. This is a regal
total compared with the yield of any other
Bendigo co. The next on the list, the new
Red, White and Blue, could put up only a
miserable 27580 z. from 10,034 tons. The
premium on gold, however, is giving Dyason
a lift at a time when it is very welcome.
“Samp”: Re “G.D.M.’s” plea for the
.resuscitation of Victorian gold-mining (B
25/12/T9) and his mention of the Clunes
goldfield, it is interesting to note that as
late as 1913 a co. (English) was formed by
G. F. B. Hancock to work the eastern anti-
cline of the famous quartz reefs. E. J.
Dunn was retained as consulting geologist
to the co.. and under his direction a shaft
was put down to pick up this anticline,
which had not previously been worked. The
shaft proved to be all but two feet over the
apex of it. This caused much satisfaction,
but the co., after sinking 180 ft. and spending
a few thousand pounds, suddenly stopped
owing to a financial shortage due to the war.
Is there no one in Australia with a bit of
capital and brains to some of the gold
out of this highly auriferous belt which was
abandoned for such minor reasons? In the
case of the Port Phillin Co. it was because
when water was struck at 1700 ft. the pump
was down to only 1300 ft. A modern 20in.
column would keep that mine bone dry.
A “model town” is to be built at the
Bowen coalfield. Bananaland’s Minister for
Mines Alf Jones oozes optimism over the
bed, his information being that the quantity
is good and the quality equal to anything in
Australia. A 13lft. seam, flawless, has been
struck, and has given the Government the
idea to go on with the township.
According to Jones, Bananaland’s Minister
for Mines, arsenic from the State mine, near
Stanthorpe, i« being sold at £lO per ton with-
out a loss. Selectors are getting the benefit
of this wonderfully cheap rate in attacking
the pear pest. Now the question of dupli-
cating the furnace plant is being considered,
and the idea is to transfer n furnace from
Chillagoe.
“Old Papuan”; If Block 10 Misima isn't
very careful it is going to have trouble with
its native labor. Of late there has been more
than a disposition to give charge of “bovs”
to men who don't know anything about them
and have never worked them. Even now
there would be trouble over labor supply if
it were not for the extraordinary efforts made
by the Papuan Government (including the
police) to keep the co. well furnished.
“Rhio”: The other day in Winnipeg I
ran across R. A. Black, of the one-time firm
of Black, Blatchford and Grut, Kalgoorlie.
Biack, on leave from the A.1.F., was engaged
at the moment in bringing under the notice
of English people a remarkable deposit in
the Lac Du Bonnet district, in Manitoba.
The ore occurs as dissemination in gabbro,
and is localised along fault planes carrying
3 p.c. copper, with nickel, gold and platinum
values, to widths of 100 ft. and over. The
importance of the discovery is enhanced by
the existence of water-power now being har-
nessed on the Winnipeg River less than 20
miles away, admitting of electrical concen-
tration and smelting.


In N'S YL the pipe of
Motor has siv<m. lW s besi
results in gassing) Bunny.- A Gsr
jn&y b<z to £>el on the
but it should be possible to hire
tx Motor Bo&t.
Dig,M n S out
a>nd is inclined to
bore the dogs.
E>cit<z.r results might be obtained with.lke plough.
Try thread in© barbed wire through the burrow emd hitching
old blossom on to one end of it.
After zJ\\ the Hois*’
excitement
in the burroYVs«
practically adl the
loqs the p2*ddoeKs v/ill
be found to hold 2xfe.Y/ str.2£/S.
SOME SUGGESTIONS.
“The Lieut.-Governor has to-day signed a proclamation fixing January 20 as the day from and after which landholders in Victoria are required to carry
out a simultaneous and continuous drive for the suppression of rabbits.”


f
Jfff/ Unanimous
ABBOTS LAGER.
the mime or good fellowship
/-x 73reWp<f from
fell Pureffd/tdNope Gn/p
Q
Hi
A
THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
IVSears Earphone
n
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
: — band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even tne least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL I
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
Phe Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
[John Barr and Ernest
street, Sydney; and O. R.
Melbourne. ]
O’Ferrall, 214 Georg|-
Bradish, Old Exchange,
Motel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hail is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARniNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CIIKKSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
RICHARD WITTY ROUTER, once more
member for Wakefield (S.A.).
Barton was the last of the men, all com-
paratively young, who actually drafted the
Constitution. They were Barton, O’Connor
and John Downer, with Deakin as an unofficial
fourth. The job was done at Adelaide, much
of it at John Downer’s home, where Barton
stayed.
George Dibbs summed up himself and Bar-
ton admirably. “If,” he said, “I had Bar-
ton’s brains and my own audacity (°ufj
he didn’t quite say audacity) ‘‘ld be dic-
tator of Australia in a year.”
Of the original Justices of the High Court,
appointed in 1903, but one remains, and he
the oldest, Samuel Griffith, now retired. _ Tiie
others, Barton and Richard Edward O’Con-
nor, were born at Glebe Point (Sydney)
within a couple of years of each other —
1849-51.
Edmund Barton’s first big case —almost his
first of any kind —ended in the hanging of
his client. In 1872 occurred what were
known as the Parramatta River murders,
and G. R. Nichols (whose real name was
Fitzgerald) and Alfred Lester (or Froude)
were charged with them. Richard Driver
undertook to instruct counsel for the de-
fence gratis, from his interest in the first-
named accused; John Dillon, afterwards a
police magistrate, and G. 11. Fitzhardinge,
afterwards a D.C. Judge, were for Nichols,
assigned by the Crown ; while Edmund Bar-
ton and another appeared for Lester. The
Judge was Hargrave, and all officially con-
cerned,-Mr. Fitzhardinge excepted, are now
dead.
One of the most dreadful days in the life
of Richard Richards, who got a knighthood
and Sydney’s mayoralty in one packet on
New Year’s Day, was that on which
K i t c h e n e r
visited Dunedin.
.Richards w a s
then Town Clerk,
and had arranged
for the Mayor to
meet the gr e a t
man at the sta-
tion and convey
him at the head
of a procession
to the civic hall.
In the excite-
ment the Field-
Marshal was
manoeuvred into
the wrong
vehicle, and the
vacant place
alongside the
Mayor was taken
b y Richards,
who, sitting in
the seat of the
mighty, received
all the cheering.
Kitchener ran
about ninth.
COLOVEL
MURRAY, V.C.
H. B. Starke, who is married to a
daughter of the late John Gavan Duffy, is
spoken of as a likely man for the High
Court vacancy. He is able, courageous and
youngish, of good status and wide experi-
ence. As N. S. Wales had the last selection,
it is thought Victoria may supply the new
wig. Garran is mentioned, but he is an
official who has watched court practice from
the gallery (or should it be the pit?) of the
Attorney-General’s office. Powers, every-
body remembers, was an official when he
was appointed. If the Government wants
to get rid of the Interstate Commission it
mav make an offer to Piddington. who was
a Judge for a few days before, but was so
sensitive about criticism^ —much of it reallv
directed at Powers —that he threw up his
commission.
The system of dossing at Federal Parlia-
ment House, which has since been carried
to a fine art by certain Speakers and Presi-
dents, started with Barton, who found a
little back room in the great shambling
mausoleum a refuge against pressmen and
bores. When first he was Prime Minister
he was a very busy man, and also a very
sociable one; and when he mildly indulged
his love of a yarn by day he would creep
in the late evening into his little attic and
lose himself in hours of unmolested work.
His power and acumen seemed to flourish
by night, and there was many a document
shining with strength and judgment which
had been prepared—after a banquet—at 2
or 3 in the morning. Those who saw
him closest at the House knew when he had
put a good menu to rest by his jaunty
whistle of "The Minstrel Boy” as he strode
upstairs to probably several hours of heavy
writing.
When Barton first went to Melbourne as
Prime Minister he was located in the base-
ment of the north wing of Parliament House,
now occupied by llansaki) men, and had
W. A. Newman and another junior for his
full staff. Peacock, who was then Vic.
Premier, bought the doctor’s bouse on the
corner of Spring and Collins streets, and let it
to the Commonwealth for offices. A wing of
the Exhibition Building in Carlton Gar-
dens, used for dog-show purposes when llad-
don was president of the P. and K. Club,
was converted, at a cost of £40,000, into a
cosy legislative home. Peacock gave Barton
his choice —he could take the permanent Par-
liament House in Spring-street or the tem-
porary one in the Carlton Gardens. Prompted
by Deakin (Attorney-General), Barton took
the Spring-street premises, and thereby
caused some resentment among State mem-
bers. But one State Parliamentary sum-
mer session in 1903, while Irvine and Kyab-
ram ruled the roost, cured members of their
yearning, and they are happy now with their
makeshift, which is all on the ground floor.
David Storey is another N. S. Wales
M.ij.A. who doesn't like the new arrange-
ment of electorates and the new system of
proportional voting. Rather than chance
his unbroken record of wins, he will prob-
ably ask to be added to the baldheads of the
Upper House, where the votes of electors
make no difference.
John Monash, civil engineer, wearing a
grey suit and horn-rimmed glasses, is already
back at his desk in his office in Collins
House, and at work on his old job of teach-
ing Australia the value of reinforced con-
crete. Callers who wish to yarn about the
war soon realise that there are five years of
peace-work to make up.
It. M. Whitington, dead in Adelaide (sud-
denly), at 93, was a prominent figure in the
Education Dept, of S.A., and one of a re-
markable and versatile batch of brothers.
A. O. Whitington, who died last year, had
been secretary of the S.A. Jockey Club since
its re-start in 1889. Still surviving are
Peter, formerly Audit Commissioner of the
State, and an Archdeacon in Hobart.
Bananaland’s new Lieut.-Governor, Wil-
liam Lennon, was accountant in the Bank
of Australasia at Creswick (Vic.) when he
was in his twenties. Alec Peacock and he
then made a hobby of a dramatic club. Len-
non’s brother George, a retired mining in-
vestor, has a comfortable nest at Albert
Park, and puts in'a little of his abundant
leisure leading a choir down St. Kilda way.
Gone out at the comparatively early age
of 85 or thereabouts, “Bandbox” George
Browne, aforetime the Speck’s curator of
intestate estates, associate to a string of
judges, and confidential pilot-secretary to
about a dozen of the Island’s Governors, from
Weld to Newdegate. Possibly the most cour-
teous official in the Commonwealth, and cer-
tainly the most nattily attired, Browne suc-
ceeded in regaining a bachelor all his nume-
rous days; his only visible loves were his
official duties and a quiet bit of horse-racing.
He was one of the founders of the Tas.
Racing Club.
Tall old P. O. Fysh, aforetime the Speck’s
Premier, was chiefly remarkable in the
House for his suavity and the flowery
periods in which lie was wont to clothe his
financial statements. He could make a dry-
rotten Budget speech sound like a cascade of
rainbow-colored poems, and his soothing. elo-
quence converted the country’s great natu-
ral resources into mighty cornucopias teem-
ing with gold and silver and precious stones
and corn and wine and oil and ivory and
apes and peacocks. It often happened that
by the time Treasurer Fysh turned to the
chair, and with tears of exaltation in his
voice intoned, “I do now move, Mr. Speaker,
that you do now leave the chair, and that
the House,” etc., the House, including Henry
Dobson (the Opposition in those days was
mostly Dobson), was in a sort of trance,
and had forgotten all about the floating
deficit and similar unpleasant circumstances.
“Spellbound by a sweet fantasy,” the Speck’s
old-time Parliament generally gave the spell-
binder all he asked for. and everything in
the Fvsh-pond was lovely.
G. P>. Morison, K.C., who died last week
in Maoriland. was a hard-headed Scotch-
man who had practised law in Wellington
for the past 34 years. As a side-line he
ran a sheep farm. In his younger days he
was a prominent footballer, and nlayed twice
in 1882 for Wellington against N. S. Wales.
A former co-worker’s send-off: —
Wilfred Beaver, F.R.G.S. and other things, who
was killed on September 26, 1917, while leading a
company of the 60th Battalion through Polygon
Wood,' was for 10 years a resident magistrate in
Papua. He was Australian-horn and educated at
Melbourne University. Always a keen observer and
a student, he contributed many “Aboriginalities,”
and had been ambitious to write an account of the
wild tribes of the Fly Country and of the bush
stretching from it to the Dutch border. He had
nearly completed this when the war claimed him.
Now an advance copy of a handsome volume, “Un-
explored New Guinea,” under his name, has reached
me as his executor. It is full of his own fine photos
of native life. The introduction by Dr. A. C.
Haddon, M.A., D.Sc., F.R.S., of Cambridge Univer-
sity, states truly that “Beaver’s premature death will
prove a great loss to the science of anthropology.”
Full of years and adorned with a halo
of goodwill and affection woven by his fel-
low-clergy, Father J. 11. O’Connell, doyen
of Melbourne archdiocese, has passed out.
He was in Carlton parish for the best part
of half a century. Not an aggressive man,
he got on with everybody, even with Snow-
ball, with whom he was associated on the
committee of the Austin Hospital for Incur-
ables. At one charity conference be and
“Snowy” were fellow-delegates at the old
Presbyterian Assembly Hall in Coili>’«-
street. It is even whispered that the pair
have dined at the one table, and that one
or the other was the host.
“T. 0.1.” : Now enjoying a holiday on the
Blue Mountains (N.S. W\), at 84, Hugh M.
MacKenzie. who in La Trobe’s time—lBs2
joined the Victorian Customs Department, and
FRANK ANSTEY,
'member for Bourke
(Vic.) in the House
of Representatives.
retired from it
nearly a quarter of
a century ago. One
of his yarns illus-
trates th e view
some of the early
Governors took of
their duties.
Hotham suspected
the Customs De-
partment and, in
disguise, set out in
an open boat to
spy on some of its
officers. At the
mouth of the
Yarra he encoun-
tered MacKenzie’s
preventive boat
and made an effort
to escape. Th e
preventives gave
chase, and eventu-
ally overhauled
and u n masked
“O Id Quarter-
deck.” Even in
t hose days Mel-
bourne thou g h t
that was carrying
things a bit too
far.
A fearful Tory rash developed during the
week, especially in Melbourne, over the
Lennon incident in Queensland. Melbourne
contains an intolerant group of Conserva-
tives which thinks that every appointment
worth having must be incorrect unless it
goes to one of its own exclusives. Within
the past couple of years, with Radical Pre-
miers and other senior Ministers in power,
Toryism “ has done remarkably well. Mel-
bourne Club merhners have became Lieut.-
Governor, Chief Justice, Supreme Court
Judge, State Ministers (3), President of the
Uppali House and knights (7), to say no-
thing of the House of Reps. If Collins
House and Cliveden Mansions (two other of
the shrines) were taken into the count, Tory-
ism’s record would look still more imposing.
The merit of the men is not questioned, but
one may acquire merit without breathing a
Tory atmosphere.
Thomas Dunlop, who has answered the last
roll-call in Sydney at 85, was a Crimean
and Indian Mutiny veteran. He fought with
the 79tli Highlanders, under Colin Camp-
bell, at Alma and Balaclava, and witnessed
the Charge of the Light Brigade. He was
wounded in the final assault on Sebastopol.
Recovering, he went with his brigade to
India in 1857, and was present at the relief
of Lucknow, participating also in the great
battle of Bareilly. Returning to Scotland
he entered Glasgow University. On com-
pleting his course he came to Sydney in
18(15, and for some time acted as assistant
to the late Dr. Lang at Scots’ Church. A
change in convictions caused him to leave
the Kirk, and he entered the Education
Department as a teacher. He did valuable
pioneering work in the Bathurst and Illa-
warra districts, and was then in charge of
leading city schools, until he retired in 189(1.
For almost half a century he was a prominent
figure amongst the Plymouth Brethren. He
reared a family of eight good Australians,
six of whom, with his widow, survive him.
Inspector J. W. Dunlop, of the Education
Dept., is the eldest son.
The Commonwealth Parliament doesn’t
now hold a single man who sat in the
Federal Convention. Glynn was the last.
Westralia has another queer sort of
record. Five daughters of the late David
Hitchcock, of the Swan district, married five
sons of the late Alfred Minchin.
The late Baronet Lucas-Tooth (the last
of the title) left as his chief and, as it
proved, only .executor, Major Bright, of the
Rifle Brigade—third son of Charts Edward
Bright and Anna Maria Georgina Manners-
Sutton, daughter of Viscount Canterbury :
they were married at the Anglican Church.
Toorak, in 1868, while pa was Governor of
Victoria. The Major married the Baronet’s
sister. Under the will, proved at £525.671,
the widow gets an annuity of £lOOO until the
widow of the first baronet dies, when, if she
is still unmarried, £BOOO will be the figure.
The testator having been killed on active
service, the estate escapes both Federal and
State probate duties.
Tunnecliffe, M.L.A. for Eaglehawk, has
taken on the job of sec. to the Vic. State
Service Clerical Association. His predeces-
sors didn’t find it feather-cushioned.
APION KARA HISSAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Afion Kara Ilissar, situated on a mountainous
tableland in the heart of Asia Minor, was tiie princi-
pal camp for prisoners-of-war in Turkey during the
war. It is the centre of the opium-growing district
of Turkey, from which it sets its name —Afion
(opium) and Kara Hissar (Black Tower, an enor-
mous perpendicular rock crowned with a ruined
castle of the time of the Seljuk Turks, which stands in
the centre of the town). Russians from the Caucasus
and the Black Sea ; British and Indian survivors of
the siege of Kut-el-Amara ; English, French and
Australian prisoners from Gallipoli and Palestine;
naval ratings, British and French, from sunken sub-
marines, or captured in l a ids on the coast—these
and several aviators spent their capitivity together in
this desolate spot. No one succeeded in escaping
from the camp, notwithstanding that prisoners were
subjected to many hardships and cruelties. Numbers
of the famished Kut-el-Amara garrison died here
on their arrival after their terrible 800-mile march
from Mesopotamia.
The writer, Capt. T. W. White, D.F.C., of the
Australian Flying Corps, was a prisoner for two
years in this town. Eventually, being taken to
Constantinople, he escaped, disguised as a Turk,
stowing away in company with another British
officer, aboard a Ukraniari steamer that lay in the
harbor. They reached Odessa after surviving many
hardships during 36 days spent below. With false
passports they managed to elude both the Bolsheviki
and the German and Austrians, and to reach the
British lines via Bulgaria.
Capt. White, who managed to communicate with
The Bulletin several times during his internment
in Afion Kara Ilissar, returned to Australia via
U.S.A. last week. I
I wonder if the days are still
The same! If, round the summit of the hill
Whose castled top we learned to know
While prisoned near its stony base,
The storks and whirring kestrels go!
And if the almond-trees have flow’red
Again within that glade, all leaf-embow’red,
Where fig, and vine, and olive-trees,
The anodyne of changeless lives,
Stretch tender fingers to the breeze.
Or in the sordid, straggling town,
Asleep, with minarets .among the brown
Of squalid huts, like candles set
In vigil on a sea of sand —
If Hunger is its tenant yet!
And cypresses that shadowed all
The turbaned tombs, and o’er the mould’ring wall
Their slender, sombre, spires sway—
I)o they, and groups of widows, too,
Still sigh the endless hours away ?
And have the poppy-fields, that blaze
White patches on the ground, planned out their
maze
Again upon the plain that lies
Outspread in chequered patchwork, fenced
By minaret-supported skies?
And do the wand’ring flocks that spread
Unchecked, like wind-blown blossom petals shed
Upon the bare hill face —do they
Still fleck the hill, while to the skies
Their shepherd sings his savage lay?
T.W. WHITE.


For Australian conditions
—a panama, certainly
SHADE for the eyes —the welcome arrest
of summer-time glare—is only one merit
of a panama. Lightness, and the coolness
and comfort that spring from that, are others.
A panama fits your head —the individual
shape of your, perhaps, very individual head. No
need to coax or stretch the new hat or to pack it
with felt or paper. Thfe pliant panama adjusts
itself exactly.
A panama suits your face. Bend or twist its
brim; manipulate the crown any way you please.
It is this absence of hard-and-fast lines that
makes a panama so becoming and so popular.
But to be a good purchase a panama must
be genuine—not a mere pretentious fabrication
of paper or inferior straw. And since so many
hats are called panamas which are only panamas
in shape and name, buy here —at the house
where you are certain of value, sure of satis-
faction.
Genuine South American Panamas
The illustration shows a Genuine South American
Panama in the new Alpine Shape, of clear bleach
and close, even plait. The crown is medium and
the brim flat-set, with slightly curled edge. It is
finished with 1 \-inch band of Navy, Black or Brown
silk ribbon, with loose bow at side, and fitted with
grease-proof head leather.
Price, 27/6,
CUSTOMERS WHO RESIDE AT A DISTANCE.
To any address wo send on request, post-free, our 80-page Art
Catalogue, which illustrates many lines and fully describes all
items of apparel for the complete outfitting of men and boys.
Ask for a copy to-day.
>* fS
■
k "I* 4 ’- •
■
&
... -'
m
■ :■■■:
:. :y
•\
*, -
:
1
■
pfPfc fl
.
m
«-■
. %■/</&;
'. :
IP
jabt
/
.
V :■ •■ 1
-■
n
1 'I
‘X
pr;
Men’s Genuine South Ameri-
can Panama Hat—a beautifully
bleached quality, very pliable
and light. Has slightly fuller
crown than is usual, and 2\ or
2\ inch wide brims. Fitted
with wide silk riband and
grease-proof head leather.
30/-, 35/-, 42/-
Men’s Genuine South Ameri-
can Panama Hat, of even plait
and fine bleach. Made with
medium crowns and brims
ranging from 2\ to 3 inches
wide. Fitted with 2-inch silk
riband and grease-proof head
leather.
21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 42/-
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1 /-
in the £) is allowed Returned Soldiers
in Uniform on all Cash Purchases of £3
or over.
484490 George Street;
3 to 17 Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
Branch Store at
304 George Street (near
Hunter Street), SYDNEY


4m
Made in Australia.
Again Available.
Cheaper than ever.
Obtainable at all
Storekeepers, Saddlers,
Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants.
THE CASE IS CLEAR.
The case is clear. On the one hand we have f untain
pens that splatter and leak —fountain pens that cannot
be filled without a bulb filler —that are in a word not
themselves without this old-fashioned friend, the filler.
But in my hand here I have an Onoto Pen—that cannot
leak and that fills itself. A pen a child can use - a pen
no wise man would be without.
—You, sir, should own an Onoto Pen, it cannot leak.
It fills itself, it never splutters or scratches.
Now, is 17/- to much too pay for such a pen. All stationers,
jewellers and stores sell it. Go to-day. while the evidence is fresh
In your mind - to the nearest stationer’s and say -“An Onoto Pen
please ”
Manufacturers: Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd., Bunhill Row,
London E.C. Managing Agents: Norman Baker
& Longhurst, Sydney and Melbourne.
17/-
andUpwardL
i
Onoto
Pen
Self-Filling - •
Safety Fountain
\sk for Oaato Ink—Best for all Pens.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Onlooker”: Solomon is now a Sydney
Hop. I saw him adjudicate, yesterday. Thre a
returned soldiers had attracted a crowd by
an argument that threatened to burst into
stoush. Solomon loomed up to < cell the
storm. “WJiat’.s it all about, Digs?” One chap
spoke up: “Well, we were having a drink
with tliis cove, and I. dropped a two-bob
piece, and he picked it up, and he ain’t give
it back to me.” The accused grew hot, let
off his version and flourished the disputed
A NASTY SMACK.
THE DEAR CONFIDANT: “Yes, it must have
been a terrible disappointment when
Miss Golding refused you.”
YOUNG STONEBROKE : “It was a crusher. I
felt exactly as though I had been sen-
tenced to hard labor for life.”
coin. Solomon took the money, looked at it
and then delivered judgment: “How about
1 mving a couple of drinks with it?” They ex
changed glances. “Righto, Dig.” And
Solomon resumed his beat looking for fresh
problems.
“Munkinie”: Not for many years has
Darwin enjoyed anything as it is enjoying
the Royal Commission into the government
of the Territory. The court is packed. A
crowd comes in every day by car from the
meatworks. Many a man who sits in the
court listening to the proceedings is paying
somebody 30s. a day to carry on his job.
Ladies occupy the jury-box, and for the
most part gaze sympathetically at the trium-
virate, now known locally as “the circum-
navigators.” Most of the officials have
made shockingly bad witnesses; and when
a blistering report comes out, as it is bound
to do, the defence is going to be that his
Honor Ewing was “hopelessly prejudiced.
Which will simply mean that Ewmg didn t
try to disguise his astonishment at some or
the disclosures as he along—in his
shirt-sleeves, by the way. When he started
like that some of them knew he wasn’t to
be trusted. So different from dear Arthur
Nelson Barnett when he was up here
“Newborn”: The Diggers took strong
exception to the inhuman practice of “cruci-
fying'’ the Tommy for even minor offences—
tiie punishment known as “Field Punishment
Number One.” On arrival in France the
crucifixes, which are to be found at most
cross-roads, interested the Diggers greatly,
and the four large letters “INRI” at the
base puzzled a lot. One in perfect inno-
cence suggested, that “INRI” might be the
French spelling of “ ’Enery,” and referred to
“some poor bloke doing field punishment No.
1.” When seeking directions from an Aussie
traffic-manager, the latter would generally
tell you to walk on till you reached a certain
“’Enery” before turning off to the right or
left, and there wasn’t a trace of blasphemy
about it. # #
“Sexagen”: The most remarkable thing in
the late war was the astounding prominence
of the Jews. Yesterday a pure-bred Israelite
fighting-man paraded Sydney wearing the
Y.< To-day a Hebrew General comes
back with piles of medals and orders. Like
it or not, the Jew is the coming man. The
late Prince Consort had for his mother a
pure-bred Jewess, though the fact was
“wrapt in myst’ry” owing, no doubt, to
the great unpopularity of the Semitic race
at the time. The late King Edward showed
very plainly .the father’s descent, making his
very photographs late in life those of a
gentleman Jew, and his companions and
friends were very markedly Jewish. In
England they have waxed and multiplied,
showing no fear of the sin of having large
families, and their clutch on the soft places
of the earth is amazing. A look at the
photos of the British Cabinet, of the newly-
created peers or new members of Parliament,
of the well-known rulers of daily papers, tele-
graph companies, banks and corporations
which rule the world, will tell you the fact.
Compare the number of children in a Jewish
family with the one or two (or perhaps
none) of the ordinary British home, and
you will see that in the next generation
there will be a still greater disproportion.
If we cannot increase our numbers we hnd
better look out for the rule of Cohen. And
it may not be a bad thing, after all!
“Hamer” : In London the front of the War
Chest Club was always held by a crowd of
Diggers whose brightest idea of spend-
ing their leave appeared to be to loiter
in the vicinity of that building, with
occasional excursions to a pub; and
now, so far as Sydney is concerned,
my old cobbers appear to have estab-
lished themselves in the same way
about the Repatriation Office. The same
faces may be seen daily, and all day
long, in the vicin-
ity of the uninter-
esting building in
Chalmers - street.
The doors were
closed over the
Christmas holidays,
yet during that
period the park
opposite was still
decorated with dis-
consolate - looking
Diggers whose un-
happiness showed
that the routine of
their existence had
been cruelly dis-
turbed. Really is
this the best we
can do for them —
or that they can do for themselves?
* * * *
“Lex” on Church rows:—
Canon Wise, of Goodwood (S.A.), has informed
his congregation that, acting on advice received from
England, he has decided to refer the charges of
heresy and false doctrine brought against him by
fhe Bishop of Adelaide to the Anglo-Catholic con-
ference in London. “The case,” his adviser wrote,
“was unique, and he should proceed home to ex-
plain things to the gathering.” In point of fact,
cases of heresy and the preaching of false doctrine
are fairly common. Sir William Scott in 11. M.
Procurator-General v. Stone said: “It is quite repug-
nant.... that one should be at liberty to preach doc-
trines contrary to those which the wisdom of the
State, aided and instructed by the wisdom of the
Church, had adopted Though the clergy of the
Church of England have always been eminently dis-
tinguished for their learning and piety, there may
yet be, in such a number of persons, weak, im-
prudent and fanciful individuals. And what would
be the condition of the Church if such person might
preach whatever doctrine he thinks proper to main-
tain?” And he called on the Bishop of London to
forthwith pronounce sentence of deprivation upon
the culprit, Stone. A clerk in holy orders named
Oakley had his license revoked and was prohibited
from performing divine offices for “affirming doc-
trines repugnant to the true, usual and literal mean-
ing of the Articles of Religion.” “Assailed as we
are,” said the Bishop of Hereford, “with publica-
tions popularly written, artfully contrived and
speciously disguising the more obnoxious tenets of
Rome, let us not be too confident of safety. Have
you not heard of some ministers of our Protestant
A SHOCKING PROSPECT.
MISTRESS: “Mary, I object to your manner of dressing. You look altogether too much
like the mistress of the house.”
HOUSEMAID : “Oh, if that’s so I’ll alter it at once, ma’am.”
Reformed Communion enjoying her emoluments but
claiming to hold a Roman doctrine, while by their
subscription tp the Articles confessedly hindered
from teaching the same?” This question of the
emoluments is near the crux of the matter. Why
should persons “fed out of the appointments of the
Established Church” be suffered to support the tenets
of a rival institution? Such is the burden of every
judicial comment on heresy cases. However, in view
of recent developments of religious thought in all
the Christian churches, an Anglic'.n “heretic” ought
nowadays to have a good case if he called for a
modification of the principle which demands absolute
belief in the Thirty-nine Articles. How many sen-
sible people really credit, for example, that a
monarch like Ed. VII. was ever intended by the
Deity to be Head of a church? Or that the
Saviour went down bodily into Hell —a place whose
existence is now denied by many churchmen ? And
if these go, why not the one which insists that
R.C.ism is “a vain invention” ?
There is nothing bashful about some of the
demands put forth by the Sydney branch of
the Stewards and Pantrymen’s Union, which
has taken a hand in the marine strike. In
addition to a number of matters re wages
these come in :
The sum of £lOOO shall be paid by the employer
to the next of kin of a steward or stewardess who
dies while in the service of the employer. A steward
or stewardess shall be paid full wages during sickness
and until such time as he or she is returned to the
home port and is fit to resume duty, and the em-
ployer shall defray all costs in connection with the
sickness contracted whilst in his employ.
So, supposing a steward dies of delirium
tremens, his employer shall pay £lOOO to the
deceased’s second cousin, supposing that per-
son should be next-of-kin.' And there are
complaints not even so esteemed as delirium
tremens which may kill a steward or make
him an expensive invalid for years. By wrny
of another possibility a stewardess with an
illicit operation might almost wreck the
year’s profits of a microscopic coastal co.
“B.O.”: Isn’t it time the sycophantic
twaddle written about war personages was
cut out? The latest specimen featured by
the S. M. Herald (6/l/’2O) gravely informs
the suburbs on the authority of a returning
Q.M.S. who was “on Field-Marshal Haig’s
personal staff” that the commander-in-chief's
complete disregard of danger caused great
anxiety to the G.H.Q. personnel. He
even “protested against a guard being
posted outside his sleeping-quarters.” The
ordinary foot-slogger would have thought
that as commander-in-chief Haig’s besl
remedy, if he didn’t want the guard, would
have been to order its dismissal. Anyway,
instead of Australia falling at the feet of
this idol it might recall that it was he
who used every power he possessed to get the
Australian heads to introduce shooting for
“desertion” and “cowardice” into their army.
It is to the everlasting credit of Monash (in-
fluenced, no doubt, by Dr. Springthorpe, of
Melbourne) that, knowing “desertion” and
“cowardice” were often merely other names
for shell-shock, he resisted Haig’s pressure.
A faint light was lately thrown on the
way goods carried by the Vic. Railway De-
partment mysteriously disappear when men
unloading coal at Spotswood pumping
station unearthed a piano in the bottom of
a truck. The Department is so used to
losing the goods it carries that it regarded
the fuss about the instrument as most un-
called for, and chivvied the owner away with
excuses about consignor's risk or something.
ANY PORT IN A STORM.
“ Goodness , how lucky! You’re the very man
Pee Veen longing to see. Do come
around this side and let me get to lee-
ward of you.”
Almost the only thing that never goes miss-
ing on the Vic. railways is the loss on
the non-paying lines. Nobody ever seems
to want to steal that.
{Continued on page 18.)
A DISCOLORABLE IMITATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bands and orchestras by the thousand perform
jazz music imitated from the negroes. Vaudeville
houses swarm with coons and persons who mimic
coons and sing negro songs.” —-“An Australian
Musician in America” (B. l/lj’2o).
Disrespectfully of niggers
They may talk ; but all the jiggers,
All the jazzers, every dancer,
Every up-to-datish prancer,
Is a. copy of the sloppy,
Ultra-foppy, flat-foot, floppy,
Loose-limbed, mischievously larky,
Grinning darky.
While the coon they’re reprobating,
Yet the sinful syncopating
Of his so-called music gladly
They will play, and to it madly
Cake-walk, tickle-toe, or fox-trot,
Mimicking the orthodox trot,
Of their (are there none who shudder?)
Dusky brudder!
Mimicry, alas ! is catching;
And the Yankees we are matching
In our terpsichorean antics,
And our freakish corybantics!
White Australia ! If we’d make it
There’s a job (who’ll undertake it?)
To cut out the dancing figure,
• And the ragtime, now “de rigger,”
Of the nigger !
VICTORIA.
BILL BILE.
THE REFORMED VANDAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No instances of New Year vandalism have bee'.)
reported.”—Argus.
We did not, 1 am glad to say,
On New Year’s Eve, or New Year’s Day,
Behave in an outrageous way.
We did not with a pot of tar
The city statuary mar—r-
We sang hymns round a temp’rance b^r.
And coon songs, with a ragtime beat,
We did not bawl; nor stones nor feet
Broke window-panes in Collins-street.
We- did not wrench amidst the roars
Of .vulgar crowds —whom one abhors—
The knockers from the Toorak doors.
We d'd not, on the .opening date
Of this new year, we proudly state,
A single John assassinate.
And so the Argus was surprised:
To all the world it advertised
That Melbourne is now civilised!
VICTORIA.
E. T.


I
m
l
\JL
4%
ft
o
i
fhd
Cut out this Coupon and fill in your name
and address hereunder, and by return mail
will be sent catalog illustrating Pianola
Piano, explaining fully its advantages and
easy terms of payment.
Name
Address.
The Happiness to be
IN the making of your home and the realising of your happiest aspirations, must
necessarily come foremost the careful selection of the means for entertain-
ment. Beautiful music helps to make a beautiful home, and adds to it the
attractiveness otherwise conspicuously absent. Music brightens, harmonises,
inspires, and adds to the daily rout ne of life a pleasant change and an ideal
recreation.
Choose as so many have chosen —
The PIANOLA PIANO
and you find in it the best the world can give. The evolving of this splendid in-
strument, and its present state of perfection has taken a long time —but it has been
worth all the effort. Unlimited capital, time and skill have been concentrated in
its production, so that you have in this Pianola Piano to-day exclusive benefits and
pleasures that it alone can give.
It is so easy too to purchase the Pianola
Piano, because of its wonderful value, and
the convenient terms of purchase. You need
not let finance interfere too much with your
decision, nor outlay a large sum at once. A
first payment of £2O to-day will bring to y u
immediately the beautiful Pianola Piano and
all its pleasures. Silent Pianos accepted in
part payment.
The “Pianola” is available in the Steinwav. Steck,
Aeolian, Stroud and English-made Weber Pianos.
SPECIALLY NOTE: “PIANOLA” is the registered
trade mark of the Pianola Company designating the
product .of this Company only.
WARNING :--The use of the word Pianola upon or
in the prompt on or sale of any other Player-Piano
is misleading and illegal.
The PIANOLA
Company Pty. Ltd.
“vEOLIAN” Registered Trade Mark
“The C 4 entre for the World’s Greatest
Achievements in Musical Instruments”
384 George St., SYDNEY
I
l a
$
$
111
=<§)
12827


Become a
Qualified Accountant
Our splendid course of lessons and expert coaching service will make
you a competent accountant rapidly yet thoroughly, and at small
expense.
Qualification is essential to success in the business world. No good
position can be yours if you remain unqualified.
Write or call for “GUIDE TO ACCOUNTANCY.”
SO pages valuable advice and information Free without any
obligation.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
528-530 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
London Bank Chambers, comer Pitt and Moore Streets, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1897.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modem and most Elegantly-
Furnished afid Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most .of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR Tv USHER,
Managing Director.
THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE.
“Physical culture, Pa, is perfectly wonderful.
To develop the arms I grasp this rod
and move it slowly from right to left.”
“Marvellous! What won’t science discover?
If that rod had strata at the end — why,
you’d be sweeping!”
The capture of six or eight tons of the
ex-Kaiser’s correspondence won’t add dignity
to his finish. Apparently William wrote
letters far into night, mostly humorless guff
about his divine right, his mission, his in-
tentions, his Heavenly Father, bis immen-
sity, the way the world couldn’t get on
without him, and the earth-shaking biff that
would come on all his enemies when he grew
really angry and threw Gott at them. Philip
FESTINA LENTE .
“I don't believe in long engagements.”
“Neither do I. First thing you know with
one of them is you’re either married or
hauled up for breach of promise.”
11. of Spain 'was another drear man who
left chests of correspondence, but he died in
his bed—of lice, it is said —and no enemy
published the bog of documentary slush.
William’s pose is that of a voluble madman
who slept in his crown. Reading the out-
pourings of monarchs, including “Leaves
from their Journal in the Highlands,” one
always goes back to Francia, the silent dic-
tator who ran little Paraguay for 26 years,
and made it rich, and nearly made it a Big
Power, and left not one scrap of writing
behind him when he died. If he had even
left an Ode to Efficiency to break the hush
that fell after his death it would have been
a relief. William’s friends seem to have
been babblers like himself, and the books
they are writing are dreary ballast. Von
Tirpitz, who was an extinct volcano when
the war began and became extincter as it
went on till he was hardly even ash, fills his
two volumes with the account of how) though
holding some sort of naval billet part of the
time, lie wasn’t really consulted once. Two
volumes about being ignored for four years
seem equivalent to an epic on Vacancy writ-
ten with invisible ink.
Max Otto Reidl helped Labor can-
didate Gabb to defeat Home Minister Glynn
in Angas (S.A.), where the solid German
vote is. Among other things Max Otto
issued an impassioned pamphlet in which he
demanded of his countrymen “Who called
you Hun?” As a matter of fact, William 11.
did. In a famous speech urging his brother
Henry to show no quarter to some wretched
Chinese, but to slay them all round the
clock and disembowel them three times each,
he quoted the Huns as shining examples to
be followed and apparently as revered ances-
tors. Before that nobody dreamed of the
Prussian as a Hun. The name attached to
the Austrian or rather the Hungarian, where-
fore the “furious frank and fiery Hun” were
represented as “shouting” in a “canopy” at
Hohenlinden.
“Warrawurra” : Punting is a hard life for
the married man. Mondays to Saturdays
our lift-attendant steadily reads “racin’.”
Last Monday he was not as cheerful as his
habit is. “Lost a quid,” he explained. Then
from the fullness of his heart, “But it’s no
use talkin’ to women—they don’t under-
stan’.”
* if * *
“P.”: There was something splendidly
typical of the times about a Manchester
cashieress lately committed for trial for an-
nexing £6OOO from her bosses, a shipbroking
firm, who were having a good time, too.
The Official Receiver, following up a bank-
ruptcy statement showing liabilities £12,500
and assets £5OOO less, ordered a sale of the
cash girl’s estate. Inventory: One large
house, Turkish and Persian carpets, fox and
bear rugs, etchings and paintings by top-
shelf artists, grand piano, costly china,
Jacobean sideboard (1690), over 100 dresses
and costumes, 50 pairs shoes, divers furs,
and much millinery, diamond and pearl and
jade jewellery. And nobody seems to have
wondered how. In England, at any rate,
they have left off wondering how. At the
most they only wonder who.
* * * »
“P. Juggler”: The
Jew has never lost
his flowery similes.
After Allenby’s big
advance in 1918 an
Australian major was
appointed Military
Governor of Tiberias,
on the Sea of Galilee.
One of the first things
he did was to call for
a stock return from
the inhabitants so
that he might know
the district's capacity
if the army had to
fall back on local sup-
plies. A few days
after this an agitated
Hebrew came rushing
up complaining that
Australian soldiers
had taken five or six
of his sheep. Looking
up his list of stock-
owners, the Major
found that this man
had not given in a
statement of any ani-
mals at all, and
promptly fined him 10
sheep for disobedience.
The Jew looked at him.
“We have not suf-
fered such oppres-
sion,” he said, “since
Titus captured Jeru-
salem a thousand years
ago."’ That cost him
another five sheep.
“Dale” comes home from his first fly :
To be sky-sick is to be a god and bate Olympus.
A chill hand grips your inmost parts as the ’plane
conies down from the highest heavens to the deepest
hell in one long swoop. The world reels in a brazen
fashion—somebody should arrest it on charges of
(1) being drunk and disorderly and (2) having no
visible means of support. The wind tears by like
a thousand raving fiends, blowing cheeks out like
balloons, fumbling with pale lips, and shrieking deri-
sion at the roaring engines. Paddocks, houses and roads
dance below, the sea bulges up and subsides again, all
in the fraction of a second. Foolish earthlings who
NOTHING DOING.
“What was that fellow doing with his arms
around you last night?”
“Oh, nothing.”
“Um — slow, wasn't it?”
know no better stare up in envy, and one bird at
least peers down at them with misty eyes and
wishes—and wishes! You can see the earthlings
crying “O-o-o-h!” as the hawk swoops closer, and
the passenger’s remarks are not nearly so printable.
From below the ’plane appears to be a thing of
beauty. As a matter of fact it is a dragon which has
thrust its talons into an innocent man’s waist-line
and is flying away with him to the highest hill of
all the world. The absence of stewards is lamentable
and there is not a whisky and soda within miles and
miles. The machine spins up and dumps down, and
all the horror of crossing the Rip is repeated for
the fifth time. Clouds blot out the beautiful world,
the sun is a ball of gold—but these things are be-
neath the notice of the wreck who is crouching in
his hole in the absurd machine which the wind
devours. He is opening up a new field of jest for
the humorist of to-morrow.
“Coola”: The daring of the Digger beat
the Woodbine every time. Men going on
leave to Blighty had to carry full equipment
in case their unit moved during their
absence. Strict orders were issued that no
German rifles were to be taken out of
France. One day at Boulogne a Tommy
colonel of the staff was stopped at the gang-
way and relieved of an innocent-looking
bundle nicely done up in brown paper. It
was opened and found to contain all the
parts of a Fritz rifle, and a very red-faced
officer marched on board without his souv-
enir. The amused grin on the faces of
several Diggers already on the leave boat
added to his discomfiture. The next three
to come aboard were Diggers. Each showed
his pass, and walked on board with a Ger-
man rifle slung on his shoulder! They had
left their own with their cobbers. The thing
was done so openly that neither the Wood-
bine sentry nor the officer in charge tumbled
to it.
* * * *
“X. Dig” : German efficiency failed in the
spelling test in those documents which were
sent over per aeroplane to convince
us that it would be better to give up
a hopeless job and become prisoners de luxe
than to continue being an annoyance to the
Rind friends who lived opposite. In nearly
every case the spelling in these papers was
shocking and the phrasing weird. The
knowledge that information was sup-
pressed by the Censor was doing such ill
work that some of the boasts about the Ger-
man ascendancy might have been believed—
in fact, were believed —but any tendency to
“windiness” was overcome by the inclina-
tion to laugh at Fritz’s mistakes. In one
communication an inspired Hun told, us
that no doubt “Your spirit is willing, but
your beer is weak.” The British managed
this side-line of the war-business better—
for, of course, the Hun was not allowed to
have matters all his own way. Our ’planes
regularly carried letters with imitations of
British and other postmarks upon them.
These, dropped carelessly behind Fritz lines,
let the soldier who found them know of the
glorious times that his brothers were having
as prisoners in England. One of a bunch
I picked up purported to be an appeal by
a prisoner to his parents to advise his bro-
thers to do the hands-up business as quickly
and secretly as possible in order to join
their brother in the luxury of England. Ger-
man prisoners in England certainly had ex-
traordinary privileges; but some of the
yarns on that subject in the English press
may have been based on information con-
tained in these bogus letters.
* * * *
“Ivaree”: “Gouger” (B. 11/12/T9) can
add the veiled Touareg nomad, the curse
of Sahara caravans, to his list of devilish
Arabs. When serving
with the Chasseurs
d’Afrique I witnessed
the tortures they had
inflicted on my captured
mates, and the sight
would have sickened a
Chow executioner. We
had to shoot two of
their wounded (we
made no prisoners
after the sights men-
tioned) because, weak
as they were, as soon
as the Red Cross bird
had his back turned,
they managed to
strangle, with their
bare hands, the
wounded Spahis on the
stretchers next to
theirs. Their origin is
a mystery. They are
white men (not that
Dago white of the
thoroughbred Arab),
with blue and grey
eyes and fair to red
hair, and, though mur-
derously fanatic Moslems, claim descent
from Christian slaves and prisonered
Crusaders. They are as strict as their
women regarding face-veiling, and many of
them wear huge white or red crosses sewn
on their galabiehs, and sport old Crusader
armor.
* * * *
“Karee”: When the hero who kept the
Serapeum Stores felt he could stand no
mojje he posted this on the wall of our mess
hut :V-
Sirs, I warn notis. —Solders he come the shop
always, and he not pay. He embrace my wifes the
many times bier one this no good, and the bottom of
poor Egyptian man he kick much. Also he poring
the peenuttS in grammophoto and call me one
dago basta. So no good, misters, by Crise, and
don’t go too far. Picket very good.—(Signed)
Demetrios TriANdatophilos.
THE JEST OF LIVING UPSIDE-DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night I chatted with the moon,
He told me why he wears a grin,
And now I am a cheerful loon
Who laughs at sanctity and sin;
1 have the riddle of the earth
Concealed between my vast red cars,
And my Homeric cunning mirth
Will echo down the singing years.
The Moon explained the jest to me
In silver language, lucid, bright,
And then we chuckled in our glee
Until the courting cats took fright.
“The earth just now is upside-down,”
He said (the point was very neat),
“And every person in the town
Is hanging on by large flat feet.”
It was indeed a splendid joke,
The spinning ball of dirt, and us —•
The fat old lady and the bloke
Of peaceful ways who hates a fuss;
The man with warts upon his nose,
The girl whose feet go tripping light—
All gripping hard with tired toes
And sticking out into the night!
Life seems so quaint; just think that we
Walk wrong way down like flies, and nil
The winking stars stare hard to see
The reason why we do not fall.
The pomp and tragedy must fade,
Traditions wither at the roots —
Even the Great Ones need the aid
Of suction in their best kid boots!
There is no dread in anything,
For mirth is given us instead
When people bow before a king
Who’s standing on his regal bead.
What time the farmer milks his cow
The juice is flowing swiftly up,
And I would pray you answer how
We drain a flagon vvhen we sup !
The undertaker, dark and lean,
Pacing beneath his dreadful hat,
When upside down, it will be seen,
Is but a thing to giggle at.
The dancer girl who wins our hearts
Upon the ceiling clings with skill;
But Joe who carries trays of tarts
Upon his head is cuter still.
Like ruddy cherries, bookies swing
In rows to take our cash away;
Yet for the joy the sight must bring
In future I will gladly pay.
And when they hang a man, I hope
The humor of the thing he feels,
For though he dangles on a rope,
The Law must dangle on its heels.
The bishop’s gaitered legs are hooks,
With gripping on the earth much bent;
And having laid their eggs the chooks
Are justified in merriment.
In such a topsy-turvy world
Grandeur and gloom aTe out of place
’Mong stalactites who’re swiftly whirled,
Hanging quite loosely into space.
The gymnast Man the Moon and I
Appreciate. We like his care.
We like to see him toil and strive
To learn new tricks and part his hair;
We marvel that he still clings on
Amid the universe’s din.
And kindly, when his skill has gone,
We cry, “Poor chap, his feet wore thin!”
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


m
m
m
m
W
m
H
B
*
ssi
as
#ss
ZZ
H
@
r\\\W
ii U
m
PR»
Bi
iH
It is only a Matter of Time for the Best to Prove their Superiority!
Adelaide Melbourne
Solo Motor-cycle Record (589 Miles)
BEATEN BY H. PARSONS
WITH INDIAN SIDE-CAR OUTFIT
FITTED WITH
Barnet Glass
Boomerang Tyres
Time : 19 Hours 20 minutes
Beating the SOLO Record by 15 Minutes
and the Previous Side-car Record by no less than 5 hours 2 minutes.
DRIVING DAY AND NIGHT—UNDER TERRIBLE WEATHER CONDITIONS—
THE COORONG DESERT BEING UNDER WATER, PARSONS ESTABLISHED
ONE OF THE GREATEST RIDES EVER PERFORMED IN AUSTRALIA, AND
ONE WHICH WOULD HAVE BEEN IMPOSSIBLE HAD HE NOT RIDDEN
TYRES WHICH HAVE PROVED THEIR WORTH IN THE MOST STRENUOUS
CONTESTS YET HELD IN AUSTRALIA.
PARSONS THIS YEAR ALSO ESTABLISHED THE
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE RECORD (575 MILES) IN
20 Hours 58 minutes on
Barnet Glass Boomerang Tyres
For Speed and Reliability they are Unequalled.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
All States and
New Zealand.


SGEWO%
“extraHlGH GRADE* *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2]
Hotel die Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.5.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water —
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
e
King Cjeorge IV
wransissr
TheTOP-NOTOTScotdh.
ABORIGINALITEIS
MAND IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
SPLENDID IDEA.
MRS. JUSTT-WED : “Enjoy your meal, dear?”
MR. JUSTT-WED: “ Rather! Awfully fond
of calf’s liver for breakfast!”
MRS. SAME AGAIN: “And so am I! Don’t
you think it would be a ripping idea to
keep a calf so's we could have liver
every morning?”
“R.A.8.”: “Kitty Kitty” (B. 18/12/T9)
is slightly mixed regarding the buckjumping inci-
dent which took place at Tamworth saleyards 20
years ago. The rider’s name was Thebault (pro-
nounced Tib-o), not Deboe. Recalling him reminds
me of a day many years ago at the Sydney Show.
Thebault and some more of us were interested spec-
tators at a buckjumping contest. An obviously ner-
vous young fellow was leading an outlaw round the
ring,' prior to taking his turn in the event, and as
he approached our mob we gave him some good-
natured chaff. This riled the competitor, who,
flashing a £5 note, remarked, “Here’s a fiver that
says none of you coves can ride him.” Thebault
vaulted over the paling fence, buttoned his coat,
mounted and rode the outlaw to a standstill and col-
lected the fiver. Thebault was as good a driver as
he was a rider, and it was immaterial to him whether
a horse had been previously in harness or not. He
has long since abandoned the reins for the steering-
wheel, and now owns a big motor business in a
northern N. S. Wales town.
“Bill R.”; The drought west and uor’-
west of N. S. AVales has this summer, as ofttimes
previously, demonstrated that the Monaro table-
land is, climatically, the favored corner of the
State. For months starving-stock trains have rolled
their dying freights to Cooma and Nimmitabel
sheep, horses, cattle —from Moree, from along the
Darling, from Hay, Hell and Booligal. Thousands
of head have died by the way (785 dead sheep were
thrown off one train at Bredbo), and scavengers
and skinners have been working overtime at many
in-between stations. Arrived on the green grass-
lands of the plateau, the sheepmen’s troubles are far
from over. From long privations the jumbucks,
suddenly turned upon favored areas, develop all the
diseases to which mutton is heir. They get “pink
eye,” straggle blinded from the mobs, and become
easy prey for the blowfly and the crow. Yet the
returned soldier is advised to “go west” on to the
land, while Monaro continues in the keeping of a
handful of bloated squatters, several of whom are
absentees spending their unearned wealth in the
dear old Mother Land, far from the wood-and-
water joeys of the “colony.”
“Jim Carew” : Some Western Queensland
slang of my day: “Swedener,” a florin; “hog,” a
shilling; “zack,” sixpence; “Cobar,” a penny. In
the shearing-shed the boss was the “finger”: the
shearers, “brutes.” To ring the shed was to “swing
the gate,” and to be the last man in the shed was
to “carry the drum.” To get drunk was to get
“inked.” To shake for drinks “pongello,” and a
shilling-in was “tambaroora.” To leave the pub
broke was to “take water.” AVhen anyone died he
had “passed the buck,” and when buried he had
“pitched his camp.”
* * * *
“Cudgewa”: Try some potato-digging
records from Koroit (Vic.). Last April, on Martin
Bros.’ farm, Pat Corbett dug and bagged 44 bags
in a 10-ton crop of “Cook’s Favorites” in eight
hours, while Joe Donohue dug, bagged and sewed 43
bags in the same time. Pay, Is. 3d. a bag. A
few years ago Tom Malady, of Koroit, dug and bag-
ged 66 bags at Trafalgar in a day; and an un-
known digger is reputed to have made a record of
70 bags. But in the absence of information about
the yield per acre you can’t compare these figures
with the others.
*• * * *
“Fogis”: Can “Luluai” tell me how he
managed to induce the Kanakas of New Guinea to
forget their tribal customs so far as to barter their
painted skulls? My experience of the natives i. the
Sepik River district was that no amount of per-
suasion would part them from their gruesome relics,
and a show of force, more often than not, ter-
minated with painful results for the souvenir-hunter.
I found it more profitable to use
neither persuasion nor force, and
walked off with some ve"y fine
specimens. I’ll back one that I
have to beat anything of its kind
that has come out of New Guinea.
These niggers removed the hair
before preparing the skull for the
modelling, afterwards restoring it
very cunningly in clay. A very
lifelike job was completed with
small white shells to represent the
eyes half-closed. Tattoo marks
were reproduced on forehead and
cheeks. It was these same dark
gentlemen from the Kaiserin
Augusta River who, on the outbreak
of war, decided to hit out for
themselves, and raided the near-
est German station. The owner
happened to be up-river collecting
“scientific data,” and when next
he saw his residence he found that
a small fortune in the shape of
100-mark notes had been used as
cigarette papers. Also the care-
fully-written notes on two years
of important research work for
the German Government had been
burned. He was pleased !
“Equity”: Some time ago a Bulletin
contributor furnished a recipe for cleaning pipes.
He said that if you filled the bowl with grass,
packed it tightly and put the gun away for a
month it would become clean and wholesome. I
adopted the suggestion, filled my two most cherished
consolers with chopped-up, tightly packed grass and
cheerfully gave them a month’s spell. At the end
of that time I looked up toy briars, and instead of
being then clean and wholesome they were cracked
in several places. Please collect 30 shillings
from the humorous contributor and forward same
to any deserving charity.
“Mannamead”; The curious animal which
“Atzra” refers to (B. 18/12/’I9) is probably the
Pro-Echidna nigroculeata, the most primitive animal
known. It was originally discovered by a traveller
in Dutch New Guinea in 1889. The natives have a
peculiar theory as to its origin. They believe that
a certain bird now and then lays a special sort of
MEETING HIM
HALF-WAY.
EDGAR : “Do you
think there's any-
thing serious
between them?"
EVELYN : “ Probably.
She’s had her heels
lowered .”
egg, and hatches it out in the ordinary way. On
discovering that something has gone w'rong, and
that the shell contains some weird kind of animal
instead of a fledgling, the mother bird, noting that
the newcomer’s snout is suitable for burrowing, takes
it down to the ground and buries it, whence it
later emerges as an ant-bear. Paul Kibler, who
in 1913 secured a specimen in the Arfak Moun-
tains of New Guinea for Walter Rothschild", showed
it to the writer and explained how he had studied
its habits. It lays eggs and only burrow's in the
ground for worms and insects. The specimen Kibler
was taking to the great collector was about 12in.
high, had hind feet like a mole for burrowing in
the earth, a bill like a bird for snapping up worms,
a pouch like a kangaroo, and very coarse hair or
quills on its back. It does not suckle its vonng
at the breast, as other mammals do, but from a
sort of perspiration. The most extraordinary thing
about it, Kibler told me, was that it had the
power of changing its temperature from 22deg.
to 36deg., or vice versa, in a moment, and w'as,
therefore able to accommodate itself to changing
weather conditions. Scientists have since discovered
that this composite animal has one peculiarity in
common with the Australian platypus—its ‘viscera
are nearest akin to the human viscera amongst four-
footed animals. As a rule this little beast is a
dark grey or black color, and only goes on his rounds
at night.
* * * *
“Copabella”: It is necessary to go to the
Melbourne dailies to learn the natural history of our
own country. This is a note from a “various”
source in the Ac.e, dealing with the naming of Capt.
Matthews’s aeroplane, The Wallaby:—
To reach its destination its course will have to
be erratic, and not in the straight flight of the
crow. The name is appropriate because the wallaby
does not hop or jump straight ahead like a kan-
garoo, but tacks along his road like a ship. “To
go on the wallaby traok” is an expression used in
the bush to denote the gait of an individual who,
having taken drink, finds the road not too long but
too wide for him.
I’ve pursued a w'allaby or two, with gun, dog and
gin, and I’ve known a few w'allaby-hunters; but
never was “tacking like a ship” among the notice-
able characteristics of the lively brown beast. As
for the explanation of the naming of the wallaby
track, from what Cockney source did a city-bushman
get that gem ? By the memory of all the swaggies
who never touched anything stronger than black
billy tea, this is too much !
“Mulga”: “Caloola” (B. 18/12/’l9) is
talking through his hat when he states that most
bushmen fear the red-backed spider and believe it
to be as dangerous as a venomous snake. The in-
sect is very prevalent in Queensland, not only in
forest and scrub country, but more especially in bush
towns, and seems to have a special liking for out-
houses. I have known several people to have been
bitten by this spider, and although some of them
had a rough time for a few days, none succumbed.
Nicotine from an old pipe applied to the wound
gives relief. I saw an old musterer’s cook apply
gohanna fat. He had no trouble.
“C. Coral” : Murray Island, at the top of
the Barrier, in Torres Strait, has amongst its vil-
lages one called by the natives Ulag, this being
the nearest they could get to “Woodlark.” They
changed the original native name years ago to
Ulag in commemoration of the vessel at whose
hands they had suffered very severely. AVoodlark
roved the waters some half a century ago, com-
manded by European officers and with a South Sea
crew from Tanna, Sandwich and other islands.
Beche-de-mer was the game, and stations were made
for a couple of years or so up Murray way. The
amorous members of the schooner made regular and
numerous raids on the villages to get women. On
one occasion, when the schooner was lying at Daur
Island, a descent was made on Murray at night by
the nigger members of the crew. A fight ensued,
in w'hich one of the abducters was killed. Next
day the captain took a hand with his men and
destroyed the place by fire. A number of the
people who had not managed to find secure hiding-
places were killed and mutilated. The AVoodlark is
also remembered with other than happy feelings
by the Darnley Islanders, who have not, however,
gone to the length of naming a village after the
ravishers.
“Gouger”: The longest saurian I’ve yet
seen was poisoned in the Bloomfield River (N.Q.)
recently. It measured 23ft. This lizard must have
been very ancient, for its belly was covered with
oysters, various other shellfish and long green weed.
The hide was thickly pock-marked where bullets
had- struck, and it also held the iron barbs of two
spears. The belly was full of an assorted collection
of horseshoes, cattle-hoofs, three whisky bottles
A VIRTUE IN IT, AFTER ALL.
EGBERT : “Do you know, Horatio, this League
of Nations idea begins to appeal to me?”
HORATIG: “How so, my noble Egbert?”
EGBERT : “Well, it says here that it can't be
made to work.”
(empty) ard the lately-added skin of a dog. As for
the man from the north who told “Ragar’ (B.
27/11/’l9) that he had shot crocodiles between 30
and 40 feet long- well, he is just an ordinary dis-
torter of the truth.
(Continued on page 22.)
SUMMER-TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the flowery, showery summer goes a-singing to
the south
With that honey, sunny scent upon her mouth,
I go backward, swinging backward, down the sleepy
Memory streams,
To the milky, silky cattle of my dreams.
“Bail up, Jessie !
Back there, Bessie!”
Oh, the yellowy, mellowy milk that froths and
creams !
With a rumble and a grumble of the heavy waggon
wheels,
By the happy, sappy gums the teamster steals ; •
And he shouts the world “Good morning,” as he
grinds and winds along,
To the greeny, sheeny parrakeets’ wild song,
“Get up, Poley!
Whoa-back, Roly!”
I can hear his swinging, ringing tread and strong.
Plodding bravely, gravely onward to the stockwhip
. crack of Fate
Go the restless, nestless swaggies by the gate.
Fortune fashioned them for roving and the never-
ending sky
Is their olden, golden caravan on high,
Ever shifting,
Ever drifting,
As the wandering, pondering troops go west to die.
Nightly, lightly, like a leaf before the wind of sum-
mer blown,
I go back to little laughters long since flown,
When the cattle and the teamsters and the swaggies
swinging nigh,
Clothed my airy, fairy dreams with fancies shy.
“Bail up, Glossy !
Back there, Flossy!’"
While the moody, broody tramps go trudging by.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
“Bill Bowyang”: Pleased to supply
“Ragar” (B. 27/11 /’l9) with the measurements of
some of the largest crocodiles killed in Australia.
A monster shot by T. Godfrey, at Port Chalmers
Lighthouse (N.T.), measured 25ft. Authorities on
the roof of this continent consider this the largest
slain in Australia. Another ancient brute resided
in the Calvert River (N.Q.) for several years, and
devoured many aboriginals and horses. He was
eventually lured ashore by the yelping of a dog
tied to a tree on the river bank, and when Shot
the tape recorded 22ft. Bin. from snout to tip of
tail. The man from the North who told “Ragar”
he shot crocs. 30ft. and 40ft. long was talking
through his panama. Lee and Sons, of Proserpine
(N.Q.), have killed and trapped more of them than
anyone else in Queensland, and their record reptile
measured only 21ft. This was “Big Ben,” who
played old Henry with stock on Breadalbane station.


Latest
Australian Novels.
Last year was a record successful one for “Bookstall” Novels. No othei
year produced such a variety of new novels, and never has the qualitj
been of so high a standard.
And despite the acute paper shortage, the abnormally high price of paper
supplies available and other difficulties, these _ new novels have been
published at the same price as all other volumes in the Series.
ONE SHILLING EACH Is. lid. Posted.
“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS
are the very best value obtainable
at the bookstalls and booksellers.
Which explains why over 2,000,000 copies of
“Bookstall” novels have already actually been sold.
A few of last year’s big successes: —
“THE CORAL QUEEN” by Beatrice Grimshaw
A great story of the Islands. The popular authoress at her best.
“THE MOUNT MARUNGA MYSTERY” - - by Harrison Owen
The best murder-mystery story ever published in Australia.
“SALLY” by J. H. M. Abbott
The tale of a “currency lass.” A great story of the Macquarie days.
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE” - by Con Drew
One of the best volumes of humor ever pitt through Australian presses, the
hilarious adventures of some confidence men, who do not always win out
in their little schemes. 4
“RED MOUNTAIN” - - r by Jack McLaren
A first novel, and an instantaneous success. A rattling good story of
Northern Australia. The same author’s recently-published ' Skipper ot
the ‘Roaring Meg’ ” has also made a big hit.
“THE SQUATTER’S WARD” by E. S. Sorenson
“YELLOW SILVER” by Edward Meryon
“DAWN ASPER” by Broda Reynolds
“ALADDIN AND THE BOSS COCKIE” - by Randolph Bedford
and many others.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF 100 NOVELS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Most Effective Carbide
. . for Home Illumination. . .
Made in Australia
from Australian Materials
The production of "Tasma" Carbide by the Hydro-Electric
Power and Metallurgical Co. Ltd., Tasmania, is A NEW
AND IMPORTANT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY, and
one which will certainly pay the Australian user of Carbide
to support. "Tasma" Carbide is equal in every respect to
the best Carbide hitherto imported from other parts of the
world. It is free from phosphorous, is a brilliant and steady
illuminant for home and vehicle lighting, and possessing
high percentage in gas production, is most economical in use.
Those who use Carbide for country home lighting should be
sure to specify "Tasma" Carbide, Australian and the world’s
highest grade quality.
Ask your Storekeeper to supply "Tasma" Carbide. If he
cannot do so write for prices and full particulars to
VICTORIA—NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY., LTD.,
499-501 Bourke Street., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—NOYES BROS. (SYD-
NEY), LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND —SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS, LTD.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—ARTHUR H. HASELL,
Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA —ARTHUR H. HASELL,
Perth.
TASMANIA —GILLIES BROS., 74 Collins Street,
Hobart.
Leviathan
Tailoring
Ensures Satisfaction.
15he
Quality
Suit
MADE-TO-MEASURE
£77
EZ
in guaranteed Indigo-dyed
Navy or Elack Twill, or
Superior All-Wool Tweed
in grey or brown effects.
REMEMBER—
The Leviathan is noted
for its stylish cut and
exceptionally fine tailor-
ing.
Write to-day for Patterns,
Home Measurement Chart
and Tape.
Returned Sailors and
Soldiers allowed 10
p.c. discount.
ƒh df
hs, = ¥ 1
'}
WS
jgf
818
M
s§
iHH
■
m
M
&%■<
is
aJt«
j&i®
■;. >
KS&i&j
#3
EsS®
Order by Post.
We Pay Carria
I
88 Tmc
Leviathan
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEASE NOTE- WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
31-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/6)
0
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/-
EACH
(N.Z. 3/6)
Some Splendid British-made REGAL
Double-sided, 3/- each.
G 6209
G 6928
G 7190
G 7414
G 7294
GCOI2
G 7270
G 6365
G 6832
G 7249
G 7262
G 7368
G 6272
G 7291
G 7412
G7OlO
G 6220
G 6167
Good King: Wenceslas
O Come All Ye Faithful
Scatter Seeds of Kindness
What Shall the Harvest Be?
Christians, Awake!
Hark, the Herald Angels Sing
Hold the Fort
In the Sweet By-and-Bye
Down Home in Tennessee
Just a Few, Few Fusiliers
Boys of the Dardanelles
What Do You Think of Australia Now?
Boys of the Dardanelles March
High School Cadets’ March
Just Plain Folks
You’ll Have to Sing an Irish Song
The Sunshine of Your Smile
Wonderful Rose of Dove
A Dong, Dong Trail
Just a Plain Silver Docket
Widdicombe Fair
Richard of Taunton Deane
W’hite Wings
Only to See Her Face Again
Where the River Shannon Flows
Terry, My Blue-eyed Irish Boy
A Perfect Day
Somewhere a Voice is Calling (Duet)
Kate Muldoon
Macushla
Honest Toil March
No Surrender March
Spring Song—Mendelssohn
Berceuse de “Jocelyn”
Kiss of Spring Waltz
Scented Roses Waltz
Chimes and Organ
Chimes and Organ
The Temple Quartette
The Temple Quartette
The Temple Singers .
The Temple Singers
The Temple Quartette
The Temple Quartette
Geo. H. Elliott
.; Geo. H. Elliott
Stanley Kirkhy
Stanley Kirkhy
Band of H.M. Scots Guards
Silver Stars Band'
Miss Ada .Tones
’ Miss Ada Jones
Miss Julie Dolaro
Miss Julie Dolaro
Stuart and Burton
Stanley Kirkhy
,T. H. Scotland
J. H. Scotland
Will Oakland
Will Oakland
William Thomas
William Thomas
Frank “Webster
. Grace Kerns and H. Stuart
William Thomas
’ ’ ’ William Thomas
Alexander Prince —concertina
Alexander Prince —concertina
A. Stroud Haxton —violin
'... A. Stroud Haxton—violin
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS-
SVDNEV, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dakins House, Raws on Flaee.
MELBOCRNJI, VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim I ty.,
" Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firtli. Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street
WELLINGTON, N.Z.— Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefleld & Alien St .
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., *43 High _tiee .
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
a'.! Information
may ba
obtained.


THE DURABLE
TRAD t nARK
DURABESTOS
The Croat dlfflcu.ty the» many kinds of Building Material
r problem for the Home Buildlr? "* d ' ab ° r requl, ' ed «• * serious
w
DORABESTOS, the ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS and SLATES
has solved this problem for building the home with the very least of expert attention. ’
Any tradesman can erect a DURABESTOS Building- Sr.
UNDERLICH LIMITE
Manufacturers,
Head Office: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
Postal Address: Box 4? 4 G.P.0., Sydney.
56 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
243 Collins St,,
MELBOURNE.
Currie St.,
ADELAIDE.
Ijord St.,
PERTH.
Amelia St.,
BRISBANE.
Macquarie St.,
HOBART.
St. John St.,
LAUNCESTON.
tJ A i atm T ead ” : Men who h ave been in
Piopical Expeditionary Force in German New
Guinea coine back with very exaggerated notions of
ie price of rare birds, animals and butterflies. For
instance, I heard one state that £5OO was paid for
a specimen of the blue bird of paradise, and that
fabulous sums were ladled out by collectors for the
g ant butterflies of the region. One of the greatest
of all professional collectors of birds, small animals
and butterflies m German New Guinea told me that,
tnougli the blue paradise-bird is only (and very
laie.j) found in that island, the highest price paid
t’ere was £25 each for two skins shot by the
naturalist Richard. One of these skins was subse-
quently purchased by an American woman for £6O
to adorn a freak hat. Richard was the first white
man to shoot a blue bird of paradise, and was himself
killed and eaten by the New Guinea natives in 1911.
“Dido”: They brought black Peter into
t e homestead and set him the duties hitherto per-
f - ned by an inexpert housemaid. On the third
day he was found coiled up on the verandah behind
the vines very drunk. Next morning Peter explained
that he had gone to the cupboard, and had taken
out a bottle. “Mine t’ink it bin water,” said the
faithful servitor. “Mine drink it. Mine bin plurry
t irsty. “What you drank,” the boss explained,
‘ was gin. Him big bad drink. No more drink it
gm t’ink it water, Peter.” Peter shook his head
with great energy, but a day or two later reported
for treatment, declaring himself “too plurry tick
do-em worruk.” “You’ve not drunk another bottle
of gin t’ink him water, Peter?” asked the boss sus-
piciously. Peter shook his nut vigorously. “No
feah,” said he. “Mine drinkit bottle of water t’ink
him gin!”
“Paul C.” : Can any bush gentleman not a
life-long resident of Potts Point or thereabouts
identify a beetle lam interested in? He has
recently arrived on the N.S.W. North Coast. He
lias a green head and bronze wing-shields and is
quite a well-dressed chap. He is in myriads on
the leaves of a particular gum. Perfect gents, call
this a cabbage-gum, while vulgar persons refer
to it as a stinkin’-gum. It is a most difficult
' egctable to get rid of, so the beetles . may have
come to the rescue. As many as five can be seen
on a leaf, and when they shift to another leaf there
is nothing left but a veiny network. When they
finally leave the shrub they do so only in a manner
of speaking, for it is gone.
* * * *
“Strong String”: Brandy and salt, in the
proportion of two-thirds brandy to one-third salt,
is a wonderful remedy for all insect bites and in-
flammation. Apply it outwardly. Spirits of cam-
phor will also alleviate the pain that comes from
the same causes.
ROUGH IMITATION OF A GRILL.
“Will you have a steak to follow?”
"Yes, hut not like the one I had yesterday.”
“Why, was it tough?”
“Tough? I couldn’t stick my fork in the
gravy.”
“Bright”: “Narran River” (B. 18/12/’l9)
asks if whirlwinds reverse. If he will set his eye
on a piece of paper that is going up with one
he will often see it right-about and spiral to the
right, whereas it was previously going to the left.
Again, if they strike an obstacle, such as a wall,
willy-willies frequently waltz round and turn in
the opposite direction to that in which they were
previously spinning.
* * * *
“Eddyson’ : A few houses dotted down
amid a smith s shop, a pub, a church, a white
road winding through—it is Peewee slumbering in
its greenery, a dribble of smoke here and there alone
giving suggestion of life and energy. Here John
Wesley Timon, calling himself Timon the Torch-bearer,
American temperance advocate and revivalist orator,
was conducting a strenuous campaign, and liad
worked the district into a turmoil which was very-
bad for the business of Thomas Besant, of the Way-
side Inn. Timon was a reformer of the impassioned
order, who worked upon his audience by working
on himself, and whose favorite cure for the Curse was
the torch. He was the
most fervent exponent of
the principle of direct ac-
tion Peewee had yet en-
countered and Besant
lived in pleasant expecta-
tion of having his premises
burned over his head, foi
it was long since trade
had been good, and the
publican had a very at-
tractive insurance. With
the bright possibilities of
the situation -in mind,
Thomas took to burying
stock in his back garden
by night. But Timon the
Torch-bearer continued to
bitterly disappoint the
publican. He talked
torch, and declared again
and again that there was
justification for those who
courageously took the law
in their own hands, and
sent up the abodes of the
imps of Hell in flame and
smoke. But he did not
apply his theory. Besant
had heard Timon, and as
an expert had come to a
conclusion with regard to
the man’s fervor. When
Timon had been in Peewee
five days his faithful
attendant, a young man
named Fellows, took ill,
and the celebrated re-
former was left to himself.
This was an unfortunate
thing for Timon. Late on
tlie following Sunday night
the people of Peewee, hear-
ing an eerie voice calling
in the darkness, turned out
and found the apostle
demonstrating in a white
robe, a live torch in his
hand, and down the road
the Wayside Inn was burn-
ing briskly. Then the sad
facts came out. Timon the
Torch-bearer depended upon
gin. Given a certain quantity, Fellows
explained, he was an impassioned speaker;
but the difficulty was to see that he took
the right quantity of inspiration and no
more, and that had been Fellows’s duty.
Free of restraints, Timon had over-indulged,
and had run at large in his capacity
of torch-bearer and destroyer of demons. In con-
sideration of these facts, the ecangelist got off
lightly and betook himself to a far land, never
suspecting what only Thomas Besant knew —that
instead of lighting the hotel at his burning torch he
had lit his torch at the burning hotel.
“ffiverina”; We liad the chaffcutter set at
a stack of self-sown hay, not far from Little
Billabong (N T .S.M.). The stack was half grass and
swarming with little snakes—from a few inches to
over a foot long. Our friends the kookaburras dis-
covered them too. The first jack’s catch was about
18in. long. On a near-by limb the fun began. His
mate grabbed the other end of the reptile and (it
seemed intentional) slipped off the
limb. With loose wings there he hung.
It w r as the best tug-o’-v’ar of the year.
The top bird just sat back and
pulled; but occasionally, as his head
was dragged down, he wrenched
savagely, and his thoughts must have
been nearly as bad as the snake felt.
Suddenly he let go and the suspended
’hurra fell wallop, cannoned off a
lower limb, turned a somersault, and,
recovering himself, wing-staggered
away, the most dazed-looking fowl I
ever sawn He didn’t know what had
hit him.
* * *
“Gleniris”: The Christmas table in
Europe, according to “P. O’M.” (B. 18/12/’l9),
groans with festive bread-and-dripping.” Even
here, too, one notices it. At a bush darnce I lately
attended the supper trestle supported several plates
of bread-and-dripping sandwiches. But they were
intended as a welcome change for cow-cookies tired
of the sight and smell of butter.
1 riekly Pear’’; Here’s another one-armed
battler for the gallery. He resides at Canungera
(Q.), where the pine-log industry flourishes. As rough
a place as one can find. This man drives a bullock
team hauling logs down to the tram-line, cuts his
own tracks at times, sometimes takes a hand at
falling, and on pay-days lifts a cheque equal to any
two-armed oxen conductor’s. To watch him yoke-up
is a treat. He plays cricket; is his club’s best
bat, and is a good wicket-keeper. The last time I
saw’ him was at a dance, and he was play-
ing the accordion for the lancers. Any Abo.-writer
ever come across the armless man that resided at
Gulgong (N.S.W,) in 1908? He w’orked at road-
making, mining, etc. ; was never without money, and
was very free with it, too.
“Albatross”: This is the way an enter-
prising missionary put it to his raw recruits:—
One time stop along big house big feller rich
man. He catchem plenty copra, plenty ivory-nut
plenty tortoiseshell altogether he stop. Plenty kai-’
kai he stop along him. Bullumacow, rice he savvy
plenty. Plenty boy and plenty Mary he stop along
big house. Rich feller he niakem work quick time,
JUDGED BY THE TASTE.
DIGLE: “Where do you buy your cigars?”
TINGIN: Didn't buy these. Got them on a
bet.”
DINGLE: “H’m. You lost the bet, didn’t
you?”
T boot ’ sc i nibbelll floor—too much savvy work
VttTY; go ° a feiler *>bac all-a-thne
liiYm i’- 1 , 1 God I ! e 110 savvy rich feller. God no
feller t™ ho, ' se ~ n £ h fell /r H e savvy all-a-same bad
hbi, Jl much - T 100 r fellp r name he stop along
him all-a-.same Lazarus. He no savvy copra. He
Fni’nWt lvo, '- v " n JJ t -. He noor feller too much. Kai-
YtY i St P , nuieb i llon £ him : but plenty Island sore
stop along leg belong him, and bad-feller dog he
make plenty kai-kai along sore leg belong Lazarus.
Lazarus he catchem sometime little bit bullumacow,
little bit rice, come along table belong rich feller.
more savvy kai-kai him. God He stop along
Lazarus altogether plenty. One feller day rich feller
ne kai-kai too much. He swellem up bi°- feller
and—pouf! He bustem altogether and he go die.
He stop along Hell. All-a-time big feller fire
burn him up quick time. Plenty devil he make
gammon along him and he altogether no likem!
Uime by Lazarus he go die too; but plenty -good
teller angel he catehem and fly along Heaven, and
Lazarus he stop along bosom belong Abraham.
lenty angel altogether too much he stop there.
Lazarus he lookem down along Hell and he see
rich feller makem plenty gammon along fire.
Lazarus he laugh one time —he savvy plenty. “Oh,”
he say, “.you bad feller too much, how you likem
fire altogether?”’ And he make more laugh. Rich
feller he say: “Lazarus, you tellem boy fetchem
water quick-time. Fire he burnem tongue "altogether,
plenty too much.” But Lazarus he savvy plenty
and he say: “Me no savvy water that-a-way. You
go Hell one time and savvy stop plenty long time
altogether.” And rich feller he burnem long time.
God He say: “Good feller, Lazarus; bad feller,
rich feller too much!”
* * * *
“Blacktown” : Re warts on stud cattle.
The quickest way to treat those that protrude is
to tie a piece of silk around each one close to the
skin. In a few days they will fall off. Those you
can’t get at with the silk paint with nitrate of
silver. It will burn them away, but it takes some
time.
* * * »
“H. Church”: Anyone tell me the name
and secret history of the insect that feeds on
cicadas? It has very long legs, two of which cling
round the throat of the cicada while the remaining
ones propel it and its prey quickly along the
ground. It has small wings, pincer-like jaws and
alternate yellow and black stripes on its body.
’ Buskie” : For over 20 years in Australia
and M.L. I have listened to the best maul-wood
argument, and yet I don’t know who’s right. How
to prevent maul-handles breaking, however, I just
do know. If the eye of the maul-head is bevelled
top and bottom for, say, an inch in, breakages cease.
AH steel hammer-heads of from 21b. or so up are
so bevelled, .Vet a blacksmith’s heavy striking-hammer
handle, or spawling handle, won’t break with ordi-
nary use. Best way to make bevel in wood, after
boring hole, is with rung-bit or round rasp; or, at
a pinch, trim the handle smaller where it ‘ fits
entrance end. No handle—axe, knapping, maul or
sledge—should fit tight except at wedge-hold. A
knapping hammer not being bevelled gives more
broken handles than a maul, but get entrance-end
bored or reduce handle at that point and breakages
become a memory only.
TEE CONQUERING EYE.
SWIMMER: “ Any sharks about here?”
FISHERMAN: “There be an old feller proud
about ’ere. But if you look ’im straight
in the eye ’e go ’way.”
SWIWER: "Is that so — remarkable, isn’t
it?”
FISHERMAN: “Oh, I dunno. Sometimes he
takes you with him, sometimes he don’t.”
THE TALE OF AN OLD GUM-TREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ve waited and watched for a hundred years,
And my limbs are twisted and bent;
There’s a wound on my trunk that the bush-fires
made,
And a scar that the lightning rent,
lliere is many a hole in branch and bole
t\ here wood-ducks find a rest
As they halt at night on a southern flight
From the dried-out spaces west.
there’s a foam-stained rim on my knotted trunk,
Flood-height of an olden year,
And a nippled knob that has overgrown
The head of a broken spear.
1 here are lines rough-cut on my naked butt
That tell of a mate that died
And a crumbling mound on the broken ground
With a fallen cross beside.
Ihe river is one of iny oldest friends;
The drought is my oldest foe;
And I watch and wait when the rains are late
As the seasons come and go.
I've a word to say to the Milky Way
In the calm of the summer night.
The Southern Cross is a friend of mine,
And I bow to the Southern Light.
I have seen the wild tribes trooping in
From the country further out,
Where the creeks had dried and the game had died
’Neath the test of the heat and drought;
Here the women slept where my shadows crept,
While the children danced in glee,
Or the hour was bright in the camp-fire’s light
With a gay corroboree.
I have watched the black man spear the fish
When the flooded creeks were deep ;
And my seedlings grew when the flood withdrew
Kre the white man came with sheep.
1 have sheltered birds and beasts of the bush
From the rays of the summer’s sun ;
But they’ve disappeared since the bush was cleared
With axe and fire and gun.
There came the bearded, mounted men
With the cattle and sheep and gear,
And 1 said to the wind as it wandered past
I felt that the end was near.
Tiie sun sank red as the cattle fed
And the emus ran in fright;
The camp dogs growled while the dingo howled
In the dead hours of the night.
I've waited and watched for a hundred years,
And I’m good for many a score—•
Tiie white men come and the white men go,
But the black men come no more.
And my seedlings grow on the overflow
’Fill they’re eaten down by the sheep;
And the sun sinks red where the cattle tread
And the black man’s children sleep.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


f ƒdf
Cyclists will be interested in
these Two New Cycle Tyres.
The illustration depicts our latest Dunlop and Oceanic cycle covers. The Dunlop carries the same
design as our popular “Railroad” motor tyre, a cover that has won great popularity with motorists.
The Cycle “Railroad” will become equally popular—owing to its great wearing qualities and its
fine grip of the road, thus ensuring no loss of propulsive effort on tle part of the rider. The
patterned non-skid Oceanic is also a fine proposition. Riders will like the appearance of these
new covers, but it’s their fine quality and durability that is going to add to the reputation of
DXJNLOP TYRES
for Service, Economy and Easy Riding. Their cost is no moie than for the plain Dunlop and
Oceanic tyres. Ask your agent to show you the new patterned covers—which are now available in
all standard sizes. * ★ *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States
And N.Z.
-:/'v
SIP
m
mm
MMxW-'
m
iHH
k%y.
,v *
ma „v *jaw**s~
:
El
ea
*' ?
‘ V L
.
i |
; X
;
ag f »
.
■
"fjj
§llll • 1
i& \ *-. i


Rounding the Buoy on Plume
Plume has made good cn all types of motors,
from the big cruiser to the portable motor on
the row-boat. Satisfactory motoring de-
pends upon freedom from engine troubles ;
therefore the question of benzine quality is a
most important factor with motor-boat
owners.
Motor experts agree that
PLUME BENZINE
lit
&
C 5
; 9
m
• wo
is ideal for motor-boat owners
Plume vaporises instantly—that means easy storting.
Plume forms a perfect gas, leaving no trace of raw fuel
to cause carbon troubles. 1 lume is uniform ;it gives
sweet running and steady, reliable power always, and
a gallon takes you further.
Whether it’s a motor boat, a car, or a motor cycle,
Plume will give you maximum engine efficiency.
Don’t ask for Benzine —say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 22
hd
Soft —mellow—true to tone
—no needles to change
The EDISON AMBEROLA.
The Amberola tone will agreeably surprise you—
it will charm by reason of its softness and
mellowness.
There are no needles to change—the Amberola
has the famous Diamond Stylus Reproducer and
plays the unbreakable Blue Amberol Records.
Your family and all your friends will enjoy the
Amberola.
Illustrated is the Amberola 30—-the lowest-priced
of the Amberola models—a particularly handsome
instrument in Golden Oak Cabinet. Price £ll/1 0/-
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a demonstra-
tion, or write for full details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
kings well-nigh impossible. The Kaiser
showed their danger. On the other hand
one can t be sure that the world has been
better served by a president who. since lie
was a republic’s choice, had to be taken as
representing the people, and, therefore, to
have the power to do things, than a king
who knew that he had no power to either
legislate or administer, and, therefore, at-
tempted nothing. If the war made every
crown shake, the peace has at least indicated
that ui the most advanced republic in the
world the machinery of republicanism is far
from perfect.
In connection with monarchy, apart from
the fact that the kingship is hereditary, the
practical Australian finds the reverence for
the person of the king the hardest thing to
swallow. Yet, if there is to be a king at
all. anything but an hereditary one is un-
thinkable., since the other sort would mean
those Very appeals to violence which we put
up with the absurdity to avoid ; and as for
the equal absurdities of a Court, Taylor has
this to say :
An exaggerated reverence for the person and office
ot a lung is, from the evolutional point of view,
a sentiment of infinite value for establishing- settled
order.
The great peril, as Bloody William has
shown us, is that, instead of being content
to merely inspire loyalty and ensure union,
a king may get the ridiculous idea into his
head that he has sufficient intelligence to
conduct the national government. And, un-
fortunately, presidents of republics may fall
into that error, too. No system of govern-
ment yet evolved is as perfect that it -can
come triumphantly through all conditions.
Hence must expect the instrument to go
on changing as it always has done hitherto,
fitting itself to the new needs.
Literature and Medicine
“Sphincter” (B. 25/12/Y9), finding, as
he believes, few literary men among doctors,
concludes that “the intellectual status” of
the profession is very low. Well, the magni-
ficent results achieved by the profession in
the Great War make those of the novelist
and the poet look very small indeed. Think
of the genius of Alexis Carrel and Sir
Robert Jones, and the profound learning to
be found in the studies on the visual func-
tions by Gordon Holmes and others. Let
“Sphincter” contrast the mis-statements of
Tom Carlyle, the crudities of Wordsworth
and the sugary stuff of Rossetti and his
school with the lasting results achieved by
these men of the other profession, and he
will have a clearer conception of where the
“ossification of the brain” really is.
Even as writers, though writing isn’t their
life-job, I don’t know that doctors need fear
comparison with men whose life job is writ-
ing. The descriptions of Woods Hutchinson,
M.D., in “The Doctor in War” are far more
accurate and entertaining, though written
for the general public, than the vapid out-
pourings of H. G. Wells, who buzzed about,
the Western fflont like a mosquito. And I
doubt if any living man of letters could
describe “A Wet Night” at the Front like
Sir Andrew MacPhail, of the Canadian Medi-
cal Corps, which "Sphincter” will find in
the B.M.J. of December 7,191 S. The aver-
age doctor can give the average literary man
points in general intelligence any day, and
when we come to the top of the tree the
medico is a colossus and the literary man a
midge. Compare, for instance, Sir Y\ illiam
Osier, Professor of Physic in the University
of Oxford, with Sir A. Quiller-Couch, Pro-
fessor of English Literature in the Univer-
sity of Cambridge!
A COUNTRY DOCTOR.
Journalism in the North
Years ago James Edmond wrote of his ex-
periences on a North Queensland paper; and
except in the big centres conditions have
little changed. Even in the big centres the
advts. of Ha Kabashi, relative to Japanese
silk blouses, still appear next the misleading
article as chiefest items of local news. The
press censor during the war was a brother
of one ne#spaper, and he slapped the reptile
contemporary whenever it cleared its throat
to speak. The local magistrate refused to
convict in one case of republication of an
article already passed by the censorship ; but
instructions from down south ordered him to
rehear and convict. And rehear and convict
he did ; but without a fine, and the costs are
still costs.
Figures are not the strong point of these
Northern journals, and if anybody told the
Cairns morning paper that eight rabbits had
eaten out a 25,000-acre paddock in four
hours it would gravely record the fact. Its
knowledge of arithmetic and sense of propor-
tion have been perfected in that profound
school of journalism that produced Titbits
and Newnes and Answers and Northcliffe
with such literary tours de force as these: —
If all the hairpins dropped in a London ballroom
during the season were put together they would pro-
vide sufficient rails for a railway from London to
Moscow.
The toothpicks used in London restaurants in a
year are equal to four Norwegian forests.
The size of the forests is not mentioned, and
the general information is as indefinite ns
Heaven; but that is all the better for the
imported journalism that deals in nebulous
statements. At Wolfram the other day I was
shown a Post cutting which is the joy of
mining men. Said the Post:—
Mr. James Emmerson, of Bumford, had a further
3000 tons of molybdenite brought down yesterday
from liis splendid bearing mine, the Parramatta, at
Bamford. The last lot of a month ago went 90.7
per cent., the richest known here. Pure metal goes
anything from 94 to 98 per cent. This 3000 tons
is just the ordinary milling product won daily at
the Parramatta.
3000 tons molybdenite a day is worth
£1,500,000, or £9,000,000 a week, or
£468,000,000 a year.
It’s just this sort of slapdash craziness
that gives the imported politician a chance
in Australia. Having come from afar he
lies boldly, and the Australian, scarcely
daring to think the obvious conclusion that
his story has neither sense nor corrobora-
tion, accepts him, until at long last he is
found out. Still such things are of value
in showing us how the woolly-brained “ruling-
class” pf England secured tradition anil
privilege, and those other rights which the
common people fight to-day.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A Satchel of Books
Soldiers and Sportsmen is to hand from
the A.I.F. Sports Control Board. It will
be invaluable as a book of reference in days
to come when argument rages as to whether
or no Blotto Smith outed all comers in his
class at the Albert Hall (London) in Decem-
ber, 191 S; and it will still the voice of
braggadocio when claims are made, by un-
authorised persons, that they swam for Aus-
tralia with Hardwick and Longwortli on the
Lac St. James; rowed with Disher at Hen-
ley ; and so forth. Every athletic perform-
ance of note by a member of the A.I.F.
between the Armistice and the departure of
the rearguard for Australia is set out under
the imprimatur of Horseferry-road.
Brigid and the Cub, by Ethel Turner
(Ward, Lock, London). This is a continua-
tion of the “Cub” series. There is some
good Parisian color and pleasant atmos-
phere. The flapper-in-love and the young
matron who was recently a flapper-in-love
will find delight here; and everybody else
will decide that the yarn is a long way better
than most tales of its class.
Gully Folk, by Minnie I. Rowe (Mel-
bourne Publishing Co., Melbourne). A very
brightly-written little Australian fairy-tale
for children. The letterpress is better than
the drawings, but both are the work of the
same hand. These attempts to get a new
fairy lore to the Australian kiddie multiply
and they all deserve applause; but why
should verse be regarded as a necessary spice
to the tale? The verse here, as in most of
them, is very commonplace.
Maoriland Sketchings, compiled by Maurice
Hurst (Whitcombe and Tombs). A few
select'd scraps in prose and verse with re-
productions of Maoriland pictures by artists
well known across the Tasman. The whole
makes an attractive little Christmas booklet.
Back to the Land, by Bernard Gilbert
(Blackwell, Oxford). The author has written
a good deal both in and out of the Lincoln
dialect, but all is rather crude and more than
rather cold. Where he attempts a stately
movement he gets wooden ; and when he falls
into his own vernacular his lines have the
quality of under-the-average topical verse.
This is interesting :
They talk of “Rule Britannia” and “good old British
soil,”
But all I know of Britain is lifelong drudging toil ;
I got noa share of England, I hardly got my food ;
Thank God ! I haven’t lost a limb or I should be
no good.
Out yonder in Australia is all that men can want:
A bit of land to keep yoursen, a bit of cash to
flaunt.
Well, well; and potatoes £2B a ton.
The Inky Way
From Netherlands Consul Teppema: —
When I wrote to The Bulletin (18/12/’l9) I
neither hoped nor expected to convince Mr. “J.E.”
All I wanted to do was to place the correct facts
before Bulletin readers, and that I know I have
done.
“W.T.S.” : The recent pioneer flight across
Bass Strait by Lieut. Long provided the best
newspaper scoop remembered in the Speck.
Launceston Daily Telegraph heard that
the flight was contemplated, and “fixed”
Long for a story. Just how this was done
I don’t know, but the fact that W. A. J.
Clarke (son of the D.T.’s manager), who is
now at the reporters’ table, was an air man
at the Front may help to explain. Hobart
World and the Advocate (North-West
Coast) were let in and contributed towards
the cost of the story.
Kenneth Slessor’s retort:—•
“D.M.W.” (B. l/l/’2O) quotes a passage of blank
verse by Miss Zora Cross, which I freely admit sings
with botli force and color. If now I quote for the
defence some such passage as the following from the
same writer’s “Man and Woman,” will “D.M.W.” be
as open, and admit in turn that it is essentially weak
in both of the above qualities? Let him consider: —
But Man, whom we had watched so close, and hoped
Bv counsel of calm thought and argument
To lead by paths divine to greater deeds,
Deeds of the Will, made servant to Control,
That far above the tempest and the stress
His soul should soar triumphant in command,
Leaned to your luring lights, and learning love,
Forgot the way—forgot—and left you blind.
It is easy to realise the futility of such argument by
quotation. If “D.M.W.” quotes further from the
“Songs of Love and Life” volume I can match him
with examples from the “Lilt of Life” collection.
Is the garrulous monotony of a poem such as Words-
worth’s “Excursion” any the less because it occa-
sionally flashes into an evanescent poetry?
“Irish Grandmother” : The Irish are most
unfortunate. In the recently-published
“Dublin Book of Irish Verse” (Hodges,
Figgis and Co.), edited by John Cooke,
appears “The Shan Van Vocht,” which
speaks of Lord Edward, the Curragh of Kil-
dare, and asks “what color will they wear?”
The verse goes on:—
What color should be seen
Where our fathers’ homes have been
But our own immoral green ?
Says the Shan Van Vocht.
It is incredible that the “t” could have been
omitted by a compositor and the omission
been unobserved by the proof-reader; it
( seems much more likely that the error was
slyly passed by some Saxon who could see
the humor of it.
“Student”: Surely the Mitchell Library
trustees (Sydney) never expect any research
work to be carried out in that inhospitable
building, where, no matter how often one
attends, he is bailed up by an official who
demands liis card of admission. The reader
has to make an entry of the date, his name
and address, and the name of the author con-
sulted before he can settle down to peruse
a volume that has been taken from the
shelf by an attendant. Why should not the
reader be allowed to take the volume down
from the shelf himself? In fact, a few rooms
should be partitioned off in the main building
for the use of research .students, where the
books they were engaged upon could be kept
together for easy reference. The present
idiotic system won’t produce a historian in
a million years.


m
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
3
STORAGE
BATTERY
'9
Get the booklets “The Wick of the
Willard” and “A Mark with a Meaning
for You” from the nearest Willard
Service Station.
The story of a remarkable storage battery
invention and what it is doing for Motorists,
In the fall of 1917 readers of national magazines read
about a new Willard, a Still Better Willard, a Willard with
an entirely new idea in battery construction —Threaded
Rubber Insulation.
The Still Better Willard was not an experiment—for
two years before the announcement a car builder put it on
35,000 cars. Many of those first Willard Batteries with
Threaded Rubber Insulation are still in use after four years.
What is the Secret of Threaded Rubber Success?
Insulation had always been the big problem with any
storage battery. Ordinary materials wore out before the
battery plates did. Re-insulation was bound to come sooner
or later, and when insulation began to break down the plate 3
were injured.
But Willard, for the first time found a practical way to
use rubber, the one ideal insulating material, by piercing
each rubber insulator with 196,000 tiny threads to permit
passage of the electrolyte.
You ought to be posted on batteries and battery
insulation, so that when you need a new battery you’ll be
sure of the best your money can buy.
\
***** ■
AGE
ery
i
iicn
'** •««*. «. r
ff ** «# «i»iL ”7 **BB> s»«*.
% ** *« i”
**s* *^ }v » •‘ > :
vJ3» «*«*»,*^
«w jsfe*™
W. ■;«'Sx* 6 v; • ♦ • ■
STORAGE
BATTERY
a.
;\ ■■ vj


Rabbit,
FOX, KANGAROO,
WALLABY and other
skins are not worth
their weight in gold.
But they are bring-
ing remarkable prices.
For to p market
values consign to—
■ :\
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane, ltd.
SALESMEN ONLY.
WRITE FOR LABELS, etc., FREE.
That Car Radiator
is Always Giving
You Trouble.
fhdf
Why not send it
to Brandt's, who
will put it in A 1
order or make
you a new one?
Wo also make Motor-car Acetylene
Generators, Lamps, Carburetter Floats,
etc.
Best Swedish Carbide stocked in all
Granulations.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
“Radiator Manufacturers,”
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Talc Powder
La Tosca .Rd s,e \
SMOOTH and vel-
vety as the pet-
als of a rose
is the complexion
aided by Williams’
JSi; "* V La Tosca Rose Tal-
cum Powder. Its
l ,, '‘coolness is refresh-
. ing, its indefinable
d’.* 1 * charm makes it a
»*'*’ favorite everywhere.
Sold by Chemists every-
| '**• where. You can also se-
• l.io lect from Williams’Violet,
\ Carnation, English Lilac,
lllli and Matinee 1 new),
|HU Williams’ Baby Talc.
i"
Williams
La Tosca Rose
Talc Powder
WHITE
TWJ.B.Williaois> Co
Clasfonburu • Coon
0R57
U. S. A.
im
ill
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature ;
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
mm
m
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC (a-Z.
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Svilnev A sent: Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES. 63 Brookman Buildings.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
CHEMICALS.
OUR business is primarily (hat of exporting American
chemicals—heavy and fine pharmaceutical products and dyes.
We are manufacturers of caustic soda, soda ash. chloride of
lime, carbon tetrachloride, bichromate of soda, epsom salts,
permanganate of potash and carbon bisulphide.
Pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals and drugs—standardised and
repacked in retail containers at our own plant.
Dyes—Our Pyramid Aniline Colors represent quality, not
cheapness.
Importers of raw materials for American industries, oils, foodstuffs, etc.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT, Inc.,
80 Maiden Lane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (.Both Offices) “Beaclifred
BUSH, BEACH & GENT inc.
NewYorft. San Francisco. U.S.A.
the: palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
s
JL~ A
ass*
ft*
8
ss
h
N
&
<3
£
■
8*
Ha^
'<s/7
S<?e this brand
on each Shirk
9
is
S
%
Shirts
—are unmatched by any other Shirts made,
and are specially favored by exacting men.
Perfect in fit; full cut shoulders; no binding across
the chest or at the armholes ; and just the right
sleeve lengths.
Thistle Shirts are made in Australia, and are obtainable at all
Leading Shirt Departments. There are Thistle Shirts for all
occasions : Business or Recreation, Dress or Sports.
Ask also for THISTLE PYJAMAS.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.,
Makers, BRISBANE and SYDNEY.
AS 3
LOADING CIIAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MINING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
SditimacHer Mill Furnishing' WorKs Pty. L-td.
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. E 3
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tns”: “H.P. (P». 25/12/T9), with his
suggestion of detachable butts for postal-
notes, lias hit a good idea that is already in
use elsewhere. Whilst in London recently I
was much struck with this very convenience.
Now that Webster is dropping the mailbags
I move that “H.P.” forget that Minister’s
douche of cold water and repeat the sug-
gestion to the next P.M.G.
* * * *
“Expert Too”: Some 10 or 12 years ago
the Maoriland Postal Department issued a
p.n. having a detachable butt, as suggested
by “H.P.” (B. 25/12/’l9). It was much
appreciated, and I don’t think it cost
any more to issue than the Australian speci-
men. It may interest “H.P.” to know that
about 9099 ideas like his have been placed
before the Department; others I know
have been withheld owing to the fate of those
already submitted. I hope the new P.M.G.
will set aside a small sum to pay for useful
suggestions— and nsc them.
* * » # •
“Araminta”: I read in the papers that
imports of bulk tea during October last were
“1,968,1961 b., worth £112,335.” This works
out at about Is. lfd. per lb. Melbourne’s
leading “family” grocer charges 2s. Id. for
his cheapest brand, and most of his brethren
ask even more for even their lowest grade.
When tea was being imported into the Com-
monwealth a few years ago at an average of
about 6d. per lb., the retail price was some-
where about Is. 2d. Then Bd. was reckoned
a sufficient profit. Now, with the cost-price
about doubled, the trader’s profit seems to
have nearly doubled, too. Does it cost twice
as much to throw 2s. into the till as it does
to throw Is.?
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Badila,” writing about
canefields waste (B. 27/11/’l9). said that,
molasses being a body-heating food, cattle
in our climate do not require or relish it.
His contention may hold good in the case of
cattle, but for working animals, draught and
otherwise, sugar or molasses ration increases
the stamina and capacity for work very con-
siderably. I first had this brought home to
me in the South African War, when General
Plumer started a regular brown-sugar ration
for the horses of his flying column. The
work demanded of these neddies was excep-
tional, and the sugar-ration was so striking
a success that it was adopted as a regular
army ration for horses called on for special
work. Later, in Egypt, the Light Horse
made their acquaintance with “sucrepaillo”
(molasses and “tibbin,” or chopped barley
straw finely divided and practically in a dry
condition). I am firmly convinced that thi=
regular sucrepaille ration, in spite of bad
water and an unaccustomed grain-food, like
barley, had a great deal to do with the
amazing feats of endurance and the capacity
for recovery from fatigue of our incom-
parable horses. And hotter climates in sum-
mer than the South African Karroo and the
Sinai desert are not easy to find.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.” : If Mrs. Mary Reibey, the first
woman to hold extensive properties in Aus-
tralia, could re-visit the glimpses of the moon,
she would find the Hotel Australia occupy-
ing the site of three cottages which she
built on the spot in days long gone by. No.v
the already fine building is to have three
storeys added and an extension which will
sweep away the shops on the north side of
Rowe-street. known in Mrs. Reibey’s day as
Brougham-place.
THE TRAGEDY IN PAULO’S BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world lay at the summer’s feet,
Outside the city’s din
Rose faint and soft our ears to greet;
It seemed a mockery to eat,
And oysters were a sin.
The night was magic—one lone star
Peered in on Paulo’s oyster bar.
It winked a pearl-tear from its eye
To see us in that room;
Poor Paulo’s love-lay rose on high
As he put on the Ash to fry,
And no one knew the doom
Which hung o’er him who sang, and we
Just wondered who his girl could be.
The little man whom Fate had cast
To work her cruel will
Brooded and scowled as Paulo passed
And brought his plate along at last
For him to eat his All;
And then, I think, the wing of Death
Fell on us Arst. We held our breath.
There on the plate the oysters lay
Which seven long hot days since
Had, like chaste martyrs, passed away,
To nagging hunger pangs a prey —
They died without a wince.
A mighty cry for vengeance rose
From their pale corpses to each nose.
Paulo, again behind his wall,
Still sang his tuneful air ;
But no man could deny that call —
The small, fair man the least of all,
So, swift, he left his chair,
And from the bar he seized the blade.
Then suddenly we grew afraid.
He did not dance, or sing, or shout,
He did not make a speech;
But ah! his eygs they sought about,
And just then Paulo ventured out
And came within his reach.
Jove! then the keen blade hashed on high ;
The little man growled, “Eat or die!’’
Then Paulo, lie whose crime had made
The very heavens reel,
Began to cringe and plead and fade
And shrink and shrivel, but the blade
Was made of hungry steel.
All the Aerce, fighting Grecian blood
Rushed to his temples with a thud.
The night was one for love and bliss,
But there in Paulo's bar
Wc heard their -angry breathing hiss,
We knew the fair man would not miss,
We feared the watchful star.
“Eat them or die!” the small man cried;
And Paulo ate and promptly died.
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


m
~: . v
A y- <
mm
m
••
m
u--i
wm
.....
818
-
Mtssimsm
8
a
a
1


Hose of Luxite
is made in pour favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet (
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.-
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
THE. G RESHAM,
Brisbane's Leading Hotel.
BULL DOG
THE SEIF VULCANIZING
PATCH
WILL BEPfIIP x
f ANY SIZE PJNCTURE
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL OARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
The King of Table Waters
Once you have sampled it you will be enthusiastic over it.
You will be glad to recommend it to your friends. Ivoomah
is rich in curatives, containing lime, soda, lithia • and
. magnesia.
tsrt
13
Auan, ftUAN
a
o
_ Acehts
' l.Rowl^ d&
TRY A
GLASS
WITH
A SLICE
OF
LEMON.
hf
ƒhfh
Agents—
E. ROWLANDS
PT¥. LTD.,
Purveyors to
Vice-Royalty,
Melbourne,
Ballarat,
Sydney ant.
Katoomba.
THE
a A nitr
r «m&s££if- *
1
~ t
t%2
LIMITED
OF AUSTRALASIA
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HE\D OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 18^3.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve 1'und
Reserve Liability ot
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1,140,000
£3,140,000
838,000
£3,968,000
Directors ; —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. II. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager; E. II. WREFORD.
Drvntv Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager ; R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sul
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager:
Branches in Victoria. South Australia. Western Australia,
LONDON OFFICE: 7 l.nthbury, K.C
: E. J. OSBORNE.
J. A. G. HADLEY.
New South Wales.
m
/
/
ritisll
All
The
ara
m
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send Ycur Inquiry for early delivery
to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Coventry, England.
m
m
■sm
A Spirit
that makes
You Feel Fine
ALWAYS LOOK FOR CAPTAIN COOK
Australian manufacturing industry is being
sadlv ‘'queered” these times by one shipping
trouble and another. The S. Australian
salt-makers, for instance, are in danger of
being ruined by their isolation. There s a
large output of refined salt, but the goods
can’t be got to market for lack of ships.
And because of the scarcity of salt its price
acufs to the high cost of living. The demand
for increased production sounds horribly
ironical to manufacturers in cases like this.
‘‘IIH.”: A really high-toned suit cost
ill ils. in Sydney two years ago. Now
the same material at the same shop is £l4
14s. I was so enraged that I tried a new
tailor, and he asked £lO 16s. Unless Hol-
man postpones the unpayable railway which
he proposes to build with 0 per cent, money,
(part of the new £18,000,000 loan) from
Jvangawreck to Wallaruin and turns ~0-)0
men on to making yarns and tweed, etc., I
suppose even the slit in the tail of a coat
will soon cost £5 and the pocket-liole £2 *s.
Robert Cook, who ousted Leckie for Indi
in the Reps., is a worshipper of the Cow, and
was born at Chiltern a little over half a
century ago. He now lives at Oxley (\ ic.),
where he has developed milk on the brain
through constant association with his favorite
animal and various dairying and butter
cos He is mentioned with awe by his fellow-
statesmen of the Oxley Council, and as a
big voice in the Ovens River and Tributaries
Anti-Pollution Association he has howled
long and usefully against the dredgers spoil-
ing the river.
“Gleniris”: In her extreme youth Ethelina
had been a bridesmaid at an aunt’s wedding,
and had a faint, blurred memory of the fact.
Another aunt was to be married, and seven-
year-old Ethelina was booked for a second
engagement. While family friends were talk-
ing over the matter one Sunday afternoon,
with Ethelina nursing her doll on the lawn
near by, one of the crowd brought her into
the conversation. “Ethelina’s been there be-
fore, of course,” he remarked ; “she knows all
the ropes.” “Yes,” said Ethelina, “I was
mother’s bridesmaid.”
The days in which the man who wanted
to carry the Rabor standard at an election
had to pay the piper in bread and butter is
not altogether passed. -One of the infill.te
family of Jones, a returned soldier, who
showed that the Labor vote in Parkes was
bigger than most people imagined, had to
resign liis job at the X. S. Wales State Taxa-
tion Office in order to take the field ; and
he can’t get his old job back now tnat the
fight is over. It is as wrong as it would
have been to penalise a man for enlisting for
the war.
A man with a long memory for grievances
or a sense of humor or the genuine homing
instinct or the dramatic instinct was Joseph
Rutherford, of Leichhardt, Sydney. He left
home at the age of 40 and was not heard of
for about a generation. Then the other day
Joseph, aged o<, came back and committed
suicide on his grass-widow's verandah. He
died without explaining whether he simply
had an eye to effect like Shakspeare, or
wanted to let the lady in for burial ex-
penses like a mean cuss. The papers called
it “a tragic home-coming,” but it might have
been meant for comedy.
“208”: Would “Kiss” (B. l/l/’2O) mind
giving the location of the galvanised-iron
roads he accuses Allenby of putting down in
Egypt? I landed with the first contingent
and served through the campaign without
ever having seen or heard of them. There
was a road from Kantara to Rafa made of
rabbit-netting la.d on the surface of the
sand and reserved entirely for motor and
foot traffic; but this was put down in Mur-
ray's time, and Allenby followed his ex-
ample when laying down motor roads over
sandy patches. Incidentally, I don’t think
anyone ever saw Allenby in a single-seater
Ford. A Rolls-Royce was about the hum-
blest vehicle he patronised.
Sometimes the Australian trader profit-
eers under compulsion. A circular lately
received by Melbourne hatters from the
agents of a well-known firm of English
manufacturers said: —
We And it necessary to again re-arrange the whole-
sale and retail prices of ow hats, which will now be:
plain colors, in soft felt, 2825. per doz. wholesale;
355. retail. Mixture colors in soft felt, 300 s.
wholesale; 375. 6d. retail. These prices will come
into operation on Dec. 15 and the retail prices will
apply to all stocU on hand, which you will re-mark
accordingly.
It will be noted that the retailer is allowed
the very fair profit of 50 per cent., and if
he doesn’t charge the full figure the chances
are he won’t get any more English hats.
What is Hughes going to do about it?
“Stumpv”: “Jake B.’s” talk (B.
18/12/TO) of “flaming onions” being used
as range-finders starts me wondering whether
Jacob ever had any experience of the
vegetables. The airman aloft could see them
from the time they left the ground until they
went out, and as they had a range of only
4000 feet or thereabouts, what use would
they be for range-finding? Anybody who has
done low-nying any distance over the line
has had his share of “flaming onions” fired
at him. I never heard of anybody being
brought down by them, but the moral effect
was great, and it was also impossible to
observe anything while they were being fired,
as each onion appeared to be coming straight
for your machine. Onions were also used
at night against low bombers. From what
I saw of Hun Archies, the gunners needed
no freak fireworks to gel one’s range ; they
managed that well enough with ground in-
struments.
Hughes lias at last a chance of showing if
his Act which demands that political articles
and ads. be signed possesses any real virtue.
On the Thursday before the polling there
appeared in the Nationalist organs in Sydney
an ad. advising the intelligent electors what
not to do in the Senate voting. It stated
that if 400,000. anti-Ryan voters split their
first votes among Falkiner and the National-
ist three, it would mean that each would get
100,000 votes, while if a Ryan vote of
350,000 went solidly for the Labor three the
result would be that three Laborites would
be returned. The truth of course is that
if 750.000 votes were cast no candidate could
be elected unless he received 375.001 votes.'
If a paper- 'can be fined £5O for printing
an unsigned par., what ought to happen to
an association which publishes such mis-,
information ?


8
.
. * .
m
Mugßraib. v • '
iisls^
r.. * ••, ¥_ v A '
,4
I;^*.; '■"- *"
S ’f i
§L_._ A S'-g
1
m
. : 1
** -•*'**»
~ #
ii '
2
K
;• .
«$
■
Hf i
P
¥ {
jyrot; ' -* 4 £* . v *»■ £*»■ J
• r * V
iA ? W 4 If
MX
llrom&P&K -
K~«jra
ist*
liSllPiM
,-«
’:; >
• m*-;. * •• * * v * ~
Sgli -• * M I
< f ?#^f l l» ff ■
■
s
*
'#- /
w
%&k - * ■
■
* i* :
PM
.. .:',
-
;
■Hi
.
/ff#- A
«....
■
$ vi
■
t? j
Mw >p
lit 1r # ial % 1 H*S
if I
fi: tjpt I#h < v-
. -f ; .113 V
BHHHHHI ■
£py% :: :... ;: -Vj- ‘
*3
<f;y-' -fMm
.
y<\s
v # I
■4 &&£§„& 4gjOPi M,
■
lii
* vil& A
Ml
:
V
, r
. j§ I,
m ■
#
11
1 *
mm
mmsmmm WBm
1 ■ |§§|l IllB|l§|
IS
: v
H
■ I
If-;,# 11l
II : Iff. £S?I
% I
■
■M
■
■
■H
mm
■ m mm
%
:
.
EL?
, 5
■
■
im
m::? ; !
\1
liiill
1
mm
■;■■>•;■
I
1111
i ; ;>
.
Si
m
m
?!
■I Si
■
■
:,■...
H I:
%
m
m
m
X.
mm
USIC —of all the arts —is the
most personal. Where the other
arts make their appeal to the
mass, music is individual, carrying a
different message to every heart.
Because of this personal aspect is born
the desire to sing or play. Many and
many are the times when to listen to
the finest artist fails to satisfy. The
longing for individual expression is so
great that it dooms many to the dis-
appointment of mediocre performance.
The Beale Player-piano can. satisfy your longing for
a physical means of expressing your musical
emotions. It possesses much—much more than
mere mechanical dexterity. It has a control that
enables you to paint every shade of expression you
desire, iii_a manner instinctive and satisfying. By
its means you can tread the pleasantest gardens of
musical thought unhampered by the fetters of in-
different technique.
THE BETTER MUSICIAN YOU ARE, THE
MORE YOU WILL APPRECIATE THE BEALE
Showrooms :
333 George St.
Sydney
BEALE
AND COMPANY LIMITED
im
Factory:
-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandalc
BRANCHES —N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goul-
burn, Wagga. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania :
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John
Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland : 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Kent
Street Maryborough ; Flinders Street, Townsville ; Rockhampton ; and
Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns.


DREADED NIGHT
$0 ITCHY WITH RASH
All Over Body. Cuticura
Soap and Ointment
Healed.
“For about nine months I was
troubled with a burning, itchy rash all
3 •
SET
& ®
over my body. I dreaded
night to come on for I could
get no rest. The rash ap-
peared in very small red
blotches very itchy and in-
flamed and when I rubbed
or scratched it would spread
out all over my body.
“Then I saw the Cuticura advertise-
ment and sent for a sample which af-
forded relief so I bought more Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and the rash was
healed.” (Signed) Miss L. Mayberry,
12 Castlereagh St., Redfern, Sydney,
November 16, 1917.
Prevent further trouble by using
Cuticura Soap for the toilet.
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
fiffCiu
c Jhe largest selling
quality pencil in
the woxlcl
VENUS
V PENCILS
fh
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN
BUSINESS MEN
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
mm
= j
Vl 1 |F* 1 j
F>Sr'«
SUMMER
STYLE &
.SERVICE/
fh
Always a Clean Tie, and
They Look Dressy, Too!
wj?° weal's CASH’S WASH-
AKLh. J ILS when attired for Hot Days
displays Commonsense and Taste in
L ress. He gets Style, Comfort and Cool-
ness about the Neck. Made in large
variety of Woven Designs —Guaranteed
rast Colors.
For Marking Linen Use
CASH’S woven NAMES
s'■ Id by All Drapers and Qutfttt. rs
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
678
INFLUENZA
Used in the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances on ail classes of
- ■■ Buildings, Mocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wqol, Merchandise,
■ Hulls of \ essels. F reights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
cf various classes.
The “United’' is an Australian Institution,
DARTIN' lIAIGH, General Manager.
fhfh
Vou have always wanted Electric Lights
YOUR home will be brighter and
more cheerful with electric lights
more comfortable with electric
fans—more convenient with the many
labour saving devices that electric cur
rent will make available for your use
Fairbanks-Morse
“F” Electric Light and Power Plant
is a low-speed, horizontal, self-starting,
water-cooled engine unit—simple, eco-
nomical, long-lived—with every part
readily accessible.
It consists of a “Z” kerosene engine, a
ball-bearing dynamo, a switch-board and a
storage battery. The engine may be used
for other work wherever power is needed
on the farm.
JU.. —U.| —l.
_crn
_r
Z3~jzzt
L T jr~rax:
:;x-
- - ,--r^P=;r--i^-xzzir:
-i^-xzzir:
in
■j
See your dealer and learn more
about **F M Electric Light and Power
Plants. Fairbanks-Morse time-proven
quality assurfes reliability.
DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & COMPANY,
Adelaide.
JAMES BART RAM & SONS, LTD.,
Melbourne.
W INCHCOMB E, CARSON, LTD.,
Brisbane.
MALLOCK BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, LTD., Masterton.
N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks, Morse Gr(S
M INCORPORATED I I MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.,
NEW YORK, U. S. A,
London, England Bueno* Aire*, Argentina
p
TRASS
MARK
The Bull Dog Grip
m
m v
Climatic conditions do not affect Yale Stand-
ard Padlocks. They will not rust or corrode
under any circumstances.
‘‘Yale,” the trade-mark is plainly stamped
upon Yale Padlocks, Night Latches, Builders’
Locks and Hardware Door Closers, Bank
Locks and Chain Blocks. The trade-mark is
your guarantee of safety and origin.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
Established 1868
New York U. S. A.
The bull dog never
loosens his grip until bid-
den to do so by his master.
The world famous Yale
Padlocks, once locked,
never loosen their grip
until released by their in-
dividual keys. Their
tough, bronze construc-
tion will resist sledge-
hammer blows.
Yale Padlocks are in universal
use wherever security is needed.
The knowledge that no one has
ever successfully picked a Yale
Standard Padlock while in actual
use has increased their universal
use for all purposes where secur-
ity is paramount.
fh
fh
TALE
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features:—
1 — Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide., permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton (22401b.)and tested to 50% overload (33601 b.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Scle Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Later on there are bound to be long argu-
ment's about whether Panacre would have proved a
genuine stayer at five and six years if trained for
a distance. Perhaps. His later running suggests
it, anyhow. But he will be best remembered as
a dandy among the milers of his time. As a two-
year-old he wasn't a success. But in the next
year he took the Grantham Stakes and City Tatt.’s
Club Handicap, and w'as second in the Hawkes-
bury Guineas and the Yan Yean Stakes, all mile
events. At four he was second in the Roseliill
Spring Stakes (a mile), won the Epsom, and was
second in the Doncaster; at five, w T on the Q.J.C.
Tramway (7 furlongs in “26”), and the Rosehill
Spring Stakes, and was third in the Villiers. Numer-
ous other miles were incidentally taken near New-
castle. South of the Murray he never did much
good. Out of 65 tries he hit the front 15 times.
“Spreader”: Panacre has the makings of
a stud horse, but the chances he deserves and those
he’ll get are two different things. His dam Panara
can only sport a semi-roofed pedigree, and that
counteracts the qualities of Linacre in the eyes of
breeders. New haven’s failure at the stud was blamed
on Ills dam Oceana, whose back lines, like Panara’s,
melted away to nothing.
Linacre has started the New Year well.
At the various meetings on Jan. 1 his progeny
annexed four important events. In Sydney Panacre
won Tattersall’s Cup; Blue Spec took the Standish
in Melbourne; Mistico secured the All Aged Stakes
in Perth, and in Brisbane the Q.T.C. Heavyweight
Handicap was carried off by Lincome.
The motor may look like a funeral to an
aeroplane, but it is still a speedy vehicle. Lately a
U.S. citizen named Boyer mounted a car in Cincin-
natti, and in 21ir. 27min. 19sec. had put 250 miles
behind him. His record of 102m.p.h. for a sus-
tained effort will take some beating. Over short
distances greater speeds have of course been
achieved—including De Palma’s historic whiz
one mile in 24 l-ssec. at Florida Beach, equal to
1484m.p.h.
* * * *
“Melos”: It was by mere accident that
Yattendon, prince of stallions, was saved from an
early end. When a few days old the illustrious
youngster fell into a hole in the paddock at Ramornie
station, Clarence River (N.S.W.), and was on the
verge of finish when he was discovered. Had he
snuffed it the turf would not have had Chester,
Grand Flaneur, Calnia, Clieveden and other top-
notchers.
Tom Sullivan, who ought to know, says
that the Putney to Mortlake course, on the Thames,
over which Felton defeated Barry, is the most unfair
in the world, for there are whirling eddies and tricky
winds which tax the resources of the most experi-
enced local waterman. Sullivan reckons that the
Nepean (N.S.W.) course is the best he ever sculled
on.
* * * *
Nothing annoys Gerald Patterson more
than the general assumption that he learnt all his
tennis from Brookes. His father was his first mentor,
and he developed his game at school. In point of
fact, he was a first-class player before Brookes so
much as met him.
* * * *
The recent growth of amateur athletics
in S. Aus. is best shown by the fact that this
year the amateur events at Glenelg on “the 28th”,
(Anniversary Day) fairly divided interest with the
professional running, which used to be the only
thing in sight. The aquatic events were much
bucked up by the presence of two new flying men,
Capt. Butler has had a monopoly of aviation in the
air over Adelaide till now; but Capt. Loftes and
Capt. Moore have arrived with a Sopwith-Dove, and
gave a dashing exhibition over and about the jetty
and the yachts. They are the fliers for a new
Aerial Transport Co. of S.A., and have already
started taking up passengers.
-An Australian has been writing bitterly
in London Daily Mail about the snobbish Henley
method of estimating an amateur oarsman. (No
one can row in England as an amateur who earns
his living in a “menial” capacity.) A sporting-
parson came back with a naif defence of the system.
He said, in effect, that it had no social significance ;
that the sole idea was to debar competitors who
had undue opportunities to develop their muscles.
Presumably the cleric believes this yarn, but it is
absurd, nevertheless. If manual toil was supposed
to give an athlete an unfair advantage, there would
be a simple way out, viz., to substitute the word
“manual” for ‘-‘menial” in the rules. That would
let in all such persons as shop-assistants, servants,
commercial travellers, most railway employees, police-
men and thousands of others who are now barred.
They are expressly excluded, in point of fact, because
such institutions as the Leander Club no more
want shop-assistants on their lawns than they do
coal-heavers or rock-choppers. In any case a navvy’s
life is the last thing to build up the muscle and
condition required by an athlete. Many navvies
have, of course, been great athletes; but then there
are many millions of navvies in the world. The
first step taken by all navvy-athletes as soon as
they get sufficiently financial is to abandon their
old life and train like amateurs. In other words,
like the well-fed and leisured young men at the
Universities. To sum up. the claim that “menials”
are excluded from Henley for a sporting reason
is pure cant. Australia, however, has no right
to throw stones on the subject. Gordon Coghill (an
A.I.F. captain and an M.C.-winner) will return here
the professional pug that he was when he left,
though he won as an amateur in the Army boxing
championships. And an amateur swimmer loses his
status with us by so much as indulging in a trial
spin with a pro. The thing isn’t even consistent,
since here, as in England, a man may ride races or
play golf, billiards or cricket with a pro. and
remain lilywhite. The whole superstition was in
abeyance during most of the war, like many other
foolishnesses; and that experience showed that no
harm would be done to the cause of sport if it
were abolished altogether.
England, is waking up to the insanity of
private-enterprise racing. There is only one munici-
palised racecourse in the United Kingdom—Doncaster
—and last year it was able to hand over £15,000
for the relief of the ratepayers. This has vastly im-
pressed even the Anti-Socialists, more especially as
Doncaster is a paradise in the way of good-manage-
ment by comparison with the discomfort and black-
guardism which characterise (say) the Epsom meet-
ings. Most of the British papers in discussing the
question refer enviously to Australia. Thev are
unaware, apparently, that the Commonwealth 'is in-
fested with the worst sort of P.E. racecourses; and
that such comfort and decency as have been intro-
duced to the best of them, such as Flemingtoii and
Randwiek, are simply so many responses to a public
demand. It was considered good business to attract
the racing-man of moderate or small means, just as
it has always been considered good business in Eng-
land to keep him away.
* * * *
“Sppedo” : Motor-cvciists are a dusty lot.
but this one was the shining exception. His" small
driving-chain had jumped the sprockets, and he was
preparing to replace it —one of the dirtiest jobs
■about a motor-bike. First from a neat little canvas
roll on the parcel-carrier he produced a set of light
overalls, straw cuffs similar to those used by shop
girls, and a newspaper. After donning the .vest-
ments and placing the newspaper to kneel on he
got to work in a Gentle Annie sort of fashion. On
finishing, the tools were wiped and packed away, the
crumpled newspaper was dumped, and his hands were
wiped with a petrol rag and given a rub-over with
a golfer’s sponge. Then the working outfit was packed
away, and there he was (after giving the toes of
his boots a wipe) as radiant as ever.
(Continued on page 38.)


ELECTRIC LIGHT.
ELECTRIC FANS.
ELECTRIC IRONS.
Made possible by
DELCO-LIGHT
IT PAYS FOR ITSELF.
Runs on Kerosene,
one gallon of which will light 32 Electric Lamps
for 4i hours. Besides furnishing plenty of clean,
brilliant light, it will operate fans and small motors for household work.
Electric Light
when and
where you
want it.
HSUWHb
5 «*
m
m
»
«?
*
$1:
i
y
Will run
Pumps,
Churns or
Separators,
etc.
TO START you merely press the switch. The plant
STOPS itself automatically when the battery is charged.
80.000 SATISFIED USERS.
1300 in Australia and New Zealand Alone.
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE.
See Plant in Operation or write for Full Particulars to Sole Agents
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Warburton,
Fraivki Ltd.,
507-311 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA 8 TASMANIA:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
380-382 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smellie 8 Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons 8
Robertson Ltd.,
GRENFELL STREET,
ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Geo. Wills
and Co.,
PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND:
A. D. RILEY 8 CO. LTD.
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS’ CO-OP. Assn
CHRISTCHURCH.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, double-cut Diamond
Expanding Wristlet Watch, £l7/10/-
Extra quality, £22/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster and
Bar Brooch, lact. Gold, £45.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18:t. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunderu’ double-
cut Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ fine quality, double-cut
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3O.
Diamond
sS/OTSifßs
m
ter.
&
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation balance,
£6/10/-
Others from £4/10/- to £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set double-cut Dia-
mond, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ finest-
quality double-cut
Diamond Ring 1 ,18 ct.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ double-
l: t Diamond Ring.
ISct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond - Bing,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Gent’s Solid Gold Hunting
Waltham or Elgin Lever, £lO, £l2/10/-,
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £35, £4O,
£5O. Guaranteed.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LIST.
ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set two pure Dia-
monds, £4/10/-
A. Saunders' double-
cut Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Single
double-cut Diamond
Ring, ISrt. Gold,
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct. Gold,
£37/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamrnd Cluster Expanding Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £55.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station). SYDNEY
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond
Patent Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever
movement, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Necklet,
15ot. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
IBct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £35.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Wing,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ finest quality double-cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £6O,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid
Wristlet, full-jewelled Lever
Gold, Patent Expanding Watch
movement, compensation balance,
£lO.
lsct Gold, £l5. Extra jewelled, £l6/10/'
fh
fh
FREE
Write to-day for Special
Recipes and full Directions
for making delicious Ices and
Summer Drinks. Sent free
on application to
NESTLE’S
347 Kent Street
SYDNEY
NlB9
Summer Day Treat!
HOME MADE ICES
Delicious
Economical
Easy to Make
WITH
NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK
Made in Australia.


Wanted.
Motor mechanics wanted. —
Good wages and prospects for capable
men. Up-to-date workshop.
LONGREACH MOTOR CO., Ltd.
Longreach, C. Q’land.
Professional.
ACCOUNTANT AND SECRETARY.
\\7 ELL-ESTABLISHED Motor Acces-
* t sory Business has opening for
Accountant and Secretary with capital to
place in the business up to £3OOO. Apply,
stating salary required and amount pre-
pared to invest to ‘"ACCESSORY,”
C/o Gordon & Gotch (A’lasia) Ltd,
Brisbane.
.AmiiN<-inrm».
Harry Itickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH P. Me IN TOSH.
“|“ IVOLI THEA T K E, SVI)X E Y.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT >.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
in
AS YOU WERE.
A Novel and Fantastic Revue.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
“piVOLI THEATRE. IIEI.IiOUUNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST REVUE SUCCESS,
ODDMENTS.
Prices as usual.
Clt I T E 1C I O X T 11 EA T R E. SYIINHV.
Direction 3. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
LIGHTNINU
A Comedy Drama by Winched Smith and Frank
Bacon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
i ast of players.
Plan at Paling's.
IJ E It H \ .1 E S T Y ’ S. S Y I) N E 1
‘ * Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2
THE REVUSICAL COMEDY DE LUXE.
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
For the First Time in Australia.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS OF
EMELIE POLINI
in the English Comedy-Drama,
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL.
Plan Nicholson’s. Day Sale White Rose.
U X lON I’lC Ttlt E TIIEAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS. '
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
I_f Elt AIAJESIVS I II F A I R It, MKI.IiOIIItNK
' 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
T II K A T It It It O Y A 1,. MELBOURNE,
1 Directum J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
THEODORE AND CO.
Plan at Allan's. Prices as usual.
BRITANNIA 'IIEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
K IXO,B
Til E.A T UK. M 1C I. It O C K X IC.
Lessees: BAILEY a- GRANT
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S Til ICAT RES, MELBOURNE.
Also SY l>N ICY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge!.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES’
PEGGY HYLAND in
MISS ADVENTURE.
FOX KIDDIES in
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Prices as usual.
gyjAJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
in
THE EXPERIMENTAL MARRIAGE.
Mutinies daily at 2.30. Nights at S.
JHE ALLAN' WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
lIINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL I OR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TIM BY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING. ’
FOURTH WEEK IN DUNEDIN.
QI,A C I A II I C M, M EI,It O U KN' <?.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
E V E II Y I] V 10 N I N G,
8.15 to 10.4 5.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1 /-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CIIAPLJN, VITAGRAPH, PA'IIIE,
WORLD and SELZNTCK.
Business Notices.
T
Easy to Keep
Hair Trimmed
Distance from a barber's need not matter when
you have a good pair of hair-clippers. The hair-
clippers illustrated are made by one of the best
known firms in U.S.A.. and are thoroughly reli-
able. Solidly made of steel and with extra combs
to slide over end, enabling hair to be cut in
different lengths. Simple to use. Post free..
12/6
Manufacturers ’ Selling Agency
8 Spring Street, Sydney. ■
In these days we ail have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
fhd
Goods Pouring In.
One of our Directors, Mr. R. F. Roberts, left here
seven months ago on a world’s buying tour, so as to
secure the latest from America, England aid the
Continent.
Goods are pouring in, and 'we are able to a 1 ertise
the best and latest goods in jewellery, table silver
and electro siher, in all the newest approved designs.
Gifts for personal adornment.
Gifts for wedding presents.
Gifts for friendship expression.
All at our famous small-profit prices.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
Afternoon Tea Spoons, very heavily p.ated
on hard white-metal 25/-
Less 20 per cent. Discount •</-
20/'
THE GOOD OLD “PLUM”
The good old “Plum” Razor has been before the
Australian Pulli ■ for years, and its keenly-tempered
edge has preserved the friendship of every Shaker
who has made its acquaintance.
the: "PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
. The above makes a handsome present. *
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price lust.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
KstaUiflf'i over SO years.
"T
Tried and Trusted -
The “PLUM”
Razor.
mmu
■
Spark
Ihal
Never
Utils
The dependable Liberty
Magneto never fails.
Always it furnishes that
big vitalising spark, giv-
ing you the last ounce
of vigor and snap,
economising petrol and
ensuring you supremely
dependable trouble-free
ignition under all cir-
cumstances.
End al! ignition troubles
LIBERTY
Magneto.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA:—WeIch, Perrin &
Co., Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne.
N. S. WALKS: —George Wills &
Co. Ltd., York Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND : —Elpliinstone’s
Agency, Queen Street, Bris-
bane.
S. AUS.: —McGregor Ltd., King
William Street, Adelaide.
W. AUS.:—W. E. Grigo & Co.,
King Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND (except Auck-
land Province) : —The Dominion
Motors Ltd., Courtenay rlace,
Wellington.
Auckland Province: —
Trevithick, Ltd., Auckland.
THE FLETCHER-RUSSELL GAS COOKER
POINTS THE WAY TO ECONOMICAL AND SCIENTIFIC COOK N 3.
It is the doyen of the Stove world, and has been used in Australia for -thirty
years. Some of the original Cookers are still in use. The latest patterns
are constructed with double-cased ovens, which are thickly jacketed with
non-conducting material.
This retains the heat, and keeps the oven hot at a small
expenditure of gas. Itoasting and baking are economical
as well as pleasurable.
£l3lo|-
The hot plate contains three boil in? and one grill burners. The parts which
do wear out, such as these, can always be replaced. They just slip into their
places—no screwing, no trouble. The “FLETCHER” costs a little more,
but it’s worth it.
POPULAR AMERICAN GAS COOKERS
American Cookers have many points of excellence, and have become popular.
The large sze is table high, and prevents stooping, saving fatigue'. They are
well finished and come in three sizes. No 1 is large enough for a family of
four.
PRICES :
No. 1, £5/10/-; No. 2, £8; No. 3, £l4/10/-
AUSTRALIAN GAS COOKERS.
Australian Makers have progressed since the fine national spirit first
animated them, till they now otfer stoves of the utmost reliability, made for
long wear, and saving in the use of gas They are solidly made and carry
the usual number of burners on substantial hotplates. In a wide range of
sizes to meet all needs.
PRICES :
£4/5/-, £4/19/-, £5/10/-, £5/15/-, £6/15/-, £7/5/-
JOHN BANKS & SON Pty. Ltd
The House for Gas Cookers and Bath Heaters,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY; and 391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Publie Trustee.
fdh
0 o ORP„&S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
Be
DT
Swift «& Cotnpan.v Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney J 1
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
CARRIAGE
PAID.
m
The GUINEA HAT
of taste and quality.
Easily the Smartest, Guinea Hat in
the Country, and the Best in Quality.
Fur Felt Hat, in Drab, Slate, Fawn,
flat-set leaf, neat turned edge, li-inch
Black Band, loose Bow, 2i-inch Leaf,
and fashionable medium Crown.
FAST ELBOWING ITS WAY INTO FAVOR.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .... “The Bing Boys on Broadway”
Criterion “Lightnin’ ”
Royal “The Priest and the Girl”
Palace “The Little Damozel”
Tivoli “As You Were”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Sleeping Beauty”
Royal “Theodore and Co.”
King’s “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli “Oddments”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciauium Dancing
“The Little Damozel,” an English three-
acter by Monckton lloffe, provides a bless&d
relief from the long succession of American
plays on which the Australian playgoer has
been fed for the past few years. The atmo-
sphere is dingy tit begins and ends in the
back room of a London cafe), but it comes
from a country where plain English is
spoken, and there isn’t a bullying detective,
or a revolver, or a dollar bill in it. What
bribery and corruption it contains is done
by cheque.
* * * *
In the first act Captain Neil Partington,
who has entangled himself with the Damozel
tart who twangs the harp in the cafe orches-
tra, pays a heedless and disgraced acquaint-
ance, Recklaw Poole, to marry the pastry,
and so block a possible breach-of-promise
action. The consideration is £15,000 disguised
as a legacy, and this Poole accepts, being
rather fond of the girl and not knowing that
the Captain wants to marry the proud coun-
ty beauty he (Poole) loved before he was
warned off the turf and socially scratched.
The two witnesses to this compact are
Walter Angel, proprietor of the Cafe
Angelique, and the Hon. Fitzroy Locke, a
bleating aristocrat who has been reduced (or
is it elevated?) to life-insurance canvassing,
lie has a bitter wit, and when the
bargain is about to be celebrated with
champagne, he observes tartly, “Whenever I
see three men drinking champagne, i always
think somebody has been done.” Three
months vanish before the curtain goes up to
show th(> Ponies’ flat. The marriage has
been happy, and Poole is so contented that
his conscience is starting to keep him awake
at nights. Also, he has been wonderfully
lucky on the racecourses with the first in-
stalment of his marriage bribe. The Can-
tain pays an afternoon call to collect his
bundle of incriminating love letters, and the
Little Damozel insists that he bring bis
fiancee to see her. The meeting is arranged
under protest and the train is laid for the
climax. Sybil Craven, the powdered county
beauty, has no idea that the Mrs. Poole she
is visiting is the wife of her old sweet-
heart until the bride starts to smoke one
of her punter-liusband’s strong Algerian
cigarettes. Then the choking visitor begs to
be introduced to Mr. Poole, who is playing
billiards in another room. The Captain
tears at his moustache in the background.
Poole comes in breezily, but assumes a stun-
ned look on meeting his old flame. The
truth explodes in every direction. Poole
sees through his rival’s scheme, writes his
“THE LITTLE DAMOZEL,” AT
SYDNEY "A LACE.
Cecil Brooking as Fits Locke and, Kay
Souper as Recklaw Poole.
cheque with a flourish for the first instal-
ment of the bribe and hands the money back
to the plotter. Miss Craven begs the hion. in-
surance canvasser to get her a cab, and tilts
her nose at the Captain as she totters out.
The Little Damozel (now a very wild piece
of sold goods) dashes the bundle of letters
at the Captain’s spats, and he picks them
up and does the whipped-cur exit. Then,
instead of bursting into tears and falling on
her hired bridegroom’s shoulder, the Damozel
turns on her faithful punter like a tigress
and tells him that it is hardly 10 o’clock
and there must be a third act —or words
to that effect. The dramatist, though he
has used up his fireworks, manages to keep
things going like a craftsman by (1) set-
ting the disorganised cafe orchestra squab-
bling amongst themselves and sentimental-
ising over the lost Damozel; (2) arranging
a gents.-only farewell to Poole; (3) getting
the Damozel to wander in that very even-
ing for a night’s lodging, and (4) employing
the insurance agent to reveal to the Damozel
that her husband has obviously been insur-
ing his life with a view to suicide on the
way to China. Of course, she doesn’t let
him go, but melts into his loving arms at
10.25, while a shadowy dramatist stands by
mopping his spectral brow and muttering
grimly “Done it!”
* * * *
The suave Polini scores easily right along,
though she is at her best as the hard and
wary young harpist in the red and green
tunic, short skirt and silk stockings of an
orchestra siren. Gerald K. Souper, as Reek-
law Poole, presents an accurate portrait of
a good-hearted English sportsman with
morals and finances gone to seed. Cecil
Brooking makes the lion. Fitzroy Locke like-
able in spite of his insurance policies and
professional mourning, lie bleats some of
the best lines of
the play. Victor
Fitzherbert, as the
Captain, has a eer-
tain amount of
melodrama thrust
upon hi m, and
adds soin e saw-
dust on his
own accoun t.
M arie Ne y. a s
Sybil Craven, looks
pretty in yellow,
and spars in lady-
like fashion with
M rs. 1’ oo 1 e over
the second-act tea-
cups. Nor m a n
Pearce, as cafe-
proprietor Angel,
serves an average
in e a 1. W. J.
Coulter looks too
much like a shop-
worn lion as Papa
Bartlioldy, leader
of the ban d.
Abra h a m an d
l'epo, his two wil-
ful children, are re-
presented by Ray-
-111 o n d Lawrence
and John Fernside.
Both actors are
several sizes too
large; but there is
no reliable process
fo r ghrin kin g
actors. John d e
Lacey, as the
Pooles’ f a i t h f u 1
gambling butler,
"As You Were,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Claude Flemming as
Sir Walter Ralcigh.
doesn’t get much chance to use his fine
deep voice. Gregan McMahon is producer,
and the show, which is put on by the Taits
at Sydney Palace, does him credit.
“Oddments” at Melbourne Tivoli looks
like an anthology of absurdities from a pier-
rot party. The incidents are the merest
fragments, and the few that start off with
a satirical intention leave the audience
groping for their meaning. The little show
is thronged with allusions that have no
special point without a knowledge of Eng-
lish war-time conditions. For instance, the
reference to “plum and apple jafa” is as
dark as the curiotis scene in which Minnie
Love as a tony agricultural workah opens
the floodgates of her bathos on the principle
of sacrifice. The flatness of other scenes
dams their attempts at frivolity. The
trouble is not so much the dialogue as an
aimlessness of action that rarely allows an
episode to reach a lively climax. A revue
of this sort shows the lengths a management
will go to buy an entertainment with the
holy label “Imported.”
* * * *
“Oddments” demands a measure of
sparkle from a cast that assays about 2dwt.
to the ton in scintillating personality.
Minnie Love, making two falsettos grow
where one grew before, pipes wistfully in
two or three ditties that start one speculat-
ing on the type of intellect that can hatch
such inanities without severe mental suffer-
ing. As a comedienne she is more success-
ful. and is almost fetching in an Egyptian
scene made garish by a crude green sphinx
and an eccentric brass-breasted chorus.
Charles Workman specialises in ornate
futility and gives one the unusual sensation
that he is thoroughly at home. Roy Work-
man is a small edition - of his father, and
threatens to become a savant in theatrical
johnnydom. George Gee works conscien-
with the figure and individuality of
a bodkin, and Arthur Aldridge’s professional
zest for encores is resented as a plot to post-
pone the conclusion. Clarice Hardwicke
and Gwen Burroughs are merely passable,
but Noel Geddes is nice and winning, and
Nelle Fleming warbles a broguey ditty
through her nose apparently because her
mouth is too small for heavy traffic. Steff
Macdonald and Maurice Nodin are occasion-
ally in sight, but Rego is away most of the
time. “Oddments” is not remarkably
scened or dressed, though it demands such
support. Considered on the Saturday per-
formance, it is too weak to stand alone.
“The Bing Boys on Broadway” sparkles
and tinkles along at Her Majesty’s in Syd-
ney, and the summer humidity doesn’t worry
the junior ballerinas who prance in the dear
old paint-and-canvas village—the one Avhich
keeps in touch with civilisation by means of
a toy train attached to the backcloth.
“As You Were” parades the Seven Deadly
Sins at Sydney Tivoli and offers prizes for
the best answers to the question : “Which is
the deadliest?” That Morality Ballet should
be made more comprehensive. Why not add
the Eighth Deadly Sin —Virtue terrible in
elastic-side boots and cheap spectacles?
The flashes of “Lightnin’ ” which occur
nightly (and during the Wednesday mat-
inees) at Sydney Criterion are followed in-
evitably by thunder-claps of applause. It is
also in the normal order of nature that many
thousands should be struck. The agent
chiefly responsible is Diana Wilson, the
Adventuress. A very dangerous woman.
Hearts shattered like telegraph-poles are
common, and there is no sign of the devasta-
tion coming to an end for weeks.
Stiffy and Mo and the small dancing kid-
dies continue to make Cinderella the most
popular young lady in Sydney. She lives at
the Opera House.
a: * * *
At Sydney Town Hall the Armenian hor-
rors are lived over again, and the Turk once
more proves himself the Unspeakable Thing.
The Selznick film people, not hitherto well
known in Australia, are responsible for “The
Perfect Lover,” featuring Eugene O’Brien.
The story moves like a page of old China,
starting at the end and working to the begin-
ning. Eugene, like the slim-waisted Claude
Flemming, has a strong support of female
beauty. Luscious and decollete arms get a
stranglehold on Eugene’s sculptured throat
against a background of millionaire uphol-
stery. The Strand is the address. Louise
Glaum turns over a new leaf in “Sahara” ;
and the Lyceum features “Mints of Ilell,” a
story of the Yukon.
Barry Lupino is Mother Hubbard once
more at Melbourne King’s, and the activity
of the little man is accelerated by the neces-
sity of diving hurriedly below to make para-
lysing entrances through the floor of the
stage. His exits are more conventional, but
they are equally rapid, and he sets a stan-
dard for energy that some other members
of the company might attempt to emulate.
The two leading ladies, Wensley Russell and
Marjorie Carlisle, for instance, could show
a lot more pace and still fail to leave a
Geelong policeman hull down on the liorizdn.
There is no change in the atmosphere of
“Theodore and Co.” at Melbourne Royal,
where the thermometer continues to hover
about 104 deg. Generally the piece derives its
air of naughtiness from the dialogue which
once or twice trembles on the brink of an
impropriety, with the audience waiting in
fervish expectancy for some rorty impromptu
to push it over. But the talk never reaches
an indecorous climax, and the concentration
of passion in John Ralston’s grand ogle in
the First Act hardly realises its purplish
promise. Ralston, by the way, is now con-
sidering a new and less responsive canoodler,
Jessie Caffyn, who has replaced Florence
Young, temporarily in retirement through a
' motor accident.
*
History is still repeating itself amid
applause in the whitewash scene of “The
Sleeping Beauty” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
and the faded business with the golf clubs
is being elevated to a prime jest by public
acclamation. In fact, enthusiasm is so great
that the Firm will probably mobilise other
heirlooms in panto humor and introduce them
as the season progresses. In other phases
the show is the same, except that the illness
of Winifred Roma last week led to the
promotion of Dorothy Hastings for four or
five nights. Dorothy is an experienced
“boy,” but her carelessness in omitting to
be born in England condemns her to under-
study a Cockney divinity vastly inferior in
shapeliness, voice and feeling.
* * * *
Peggy Hyland is disguised as “Miss
Adventure” at Hoyt’s. Melbourne, this week
and easily escapes a fine for false pretences.
Peggy happens into the story as a waif of
the sea, and soon proves that she was never
born for mittens and meekness and croquet
with curates. A new English film, "The
Wages of Sin,” catches the eye in the rush
of American subjects, and the well-chosen
cast makes the most of a rather unambitious
melodramatic story. For the kiddies Hoyt’s
are flourishing the Fox film version of “The
Babes in the Wood,” which is a better. thing
than nursery fables smothered with irrele-
vant “specialties” on the ordinary stage. At
the Britannia the grim facts of Captain
Hurley’s fine pictures of the Shackleton
Antarctic Expedition straighten the curva-
“MOTHER HUBBARD."
AT MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Moon and Morris as “ Mutt and Jeff”
tuve in the intellect produced by overdoses
of Yankee movie fiction. At the Melba Clara
Kimball Young started the week as “The
Better Wife,” with Charlie Chaplin’s “Love
Bangs” in pursuit.
Jit H: !l= *
Kate TTowarde has finished a successful run
with “ ’Possum Paddock” in the open air
at Exhibition Gardens, Adelaide. bred
MacDonald and a clever crowd brought out
its simple humor, and the Wayback feud
was healed in time for the last tramcars.
Finished a Iso is the Anderson panto, at the
Tivoli, “The Sleeping Beauty,” with a
Godiva element as a side-line. At the Royal
Adrienne Ray and Francis Hugo are doing
well with domestic drama. Having shown
that divorce is a mistake, they are now con-
sidering (in “Coming Home”) whether
bigamy can in exceptional circumstances
have anything said for it. Some extra music
helps to make the discussion easier. The
Majestic has a brisk succession of well-varied
turns. The musical Cerbassi trio have come
in, with the Harlans in balancing feats, and
Doody and Wright in a humorous offering.
Still going strong in the open at Austral
Gardens are the Fads and Fashions Co.,
who have established their claim on a regu-
lar public. In pictures Irene Castle at Won-
dergraph gives the Chambers idea of New
York life in a version of his strong novel,
“The Firing line,” with its gentlemanly sui-
cide ; significant of the period is the careful
advertisement that this is not a war-story.
At the I’av. Harold Lockwood is just his fas-
cinating self. At West’s Mary Pickford has
“The Hoodlum,” in which, as a wealthy girl,
she goes to live in a slum, and thus is able
to show what is really the best side of her
art, the humorous and dramatic.
Cyril Maude and Connie Ediss, back in
London together in a new farce at the Cri-
terion, “Lord Richard in the Pantry,” had
a big reception from the public, but get
hard knocks from the critics for being alto-
gether too farcical. Of course, this is kindly
set down to their long recent experience of
“colonial” conditions, where “a broader touch
is welcomed,” though the truth is that
Maude’s over-acting in “Grumpy” had never
been so severely dealt with as it was in
Australia. Lord Richard, to avoid his credi-
tors and be near a widow, disguises himself
with side-whiskers and acts as butler, being
made love to meanwhile by the amorous and
drunken cook. Miss Ediss was altogether too
realistic in the scene on the opening night,
and that business had to be cut hard.
“Ike Pagliacci” : The Rev. Frank W. Gor-
man, the parson who alternates Fuller vaude-
ville and pulpit appearances, quarrelled with
his Yankee church folk over the matter of
advertising. Gorman’s idea is that a star
preacher needs advertising like a star actress,
and in his home town he surprised them with
things like this :
WORSHIP IN A HOMELIKE CHURCH.
First Congregational Church.
Hear the Rev. Frank Gorman Sing.
To-night :
Chicken Noodle Supper, 10 c.
Pie, Coffee and Chicken Sandwiches., 5 c.
Hearken With Us.
Apparently it wasn’t a great success. Any-
way, Gorman is now singing in vaudeville.


fh
More Power to
Your Footwear.
That’s a good idea for you men. More power
to withstand wear means money saved on
Boot Bills. And you can achieve this end
if you
Wear Murdoch’s Boots
with
“Armourite” Soles.
“Armourite” Soles are tanned by a special
process that makes them tough yet tractable,
durable and wear resisting. It is an un-
doubted fact that
Murdoch’s “Armourite”
Soles will Outwear
Two Ordinary Soles.
Don’t yon see the advantage? Twice the
wear in every pair makes for economy. Made
in a variety of si*urt shapes to please all
tastes. Uppers are made from specially-
selected Leathers, Black Box Calf and Tan
Calf. Derby shape as illustrated —also
medium round toe —shod with “Armourite”
soles. Every pair guaranteed. Obtainable
only at Murdoch’s. Prove their merit.
ORDER A PAIR TO-DAY.
BlacK
or
Tam
286
POST
FREE.
If you can’t call send particulars of size,
shape, etc., to Desk R.
Murdoch’s
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
Fine-quality Diamond
Brooch. Choice workman-
ship, £lOO.
(U
*lU*
-
Pearl anil Diamond
Circle Brooch, with
Pearl drops, £4O.
Black Opai a.id Diamond
Brooch. Special Quality,
£lOO.
Extra-quality Gem-set Platinum Watch, on
Platinum or Moire Silk Band. Selection from
£l2O.
Gem Jewellery, Watches.
The Firm’s selections of Diamond and Gem Rings,
Jewellery, Watches, etc., offer the choicest that is to be
had in quality, design and workmanship. Every article
of jewellery is made on their own premises by highly-
skilled jewellers—every gem is specially selected by
their London expert. The Firm’s watches represent the
manufacture of only the world’s best makers, and carry
the highest guarantee for accurate time-keeping qualities.
Selections will be Forwarded on Approval
to any Address in the Commonwealth.
l®m. ©rummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
M ETROPOMTAIM-VICKERS ELECTRICAL CO. LTD.
Electric Motors
There Is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes —both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating cost.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience in designing and manufacturing. We
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a part
of machine equipment.
A good—Westinghouse—motor ic the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is |it your service.
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co. Ltd.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:
81 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS:—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
piojjwx sy ! JO AV
mniiiuiiiii
•pu\>it
■
fh
fh
ĥf
IT seems but yesterday that the Maxwell Motor
Car made its debut to the overseas user.
But the story of ease in riding, long service and economy
of petrol, tyres and spares to any Maxwell owner was quickly
and convincingly told by its performance in every clime and under
every condition.
Year after year has demonstrated that the original simple
motor design was correct. 300,000 Maxwell Cars are built upon
that single design.
Numerous minor improvements have only served to build
more comfort, service and economy and more distinctive style
into to-day’s Maxwell.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —j\ lew York."
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


ALKALI CAUSES SOAP
TO INJURE HAIR.
Nearly all soaps and ready-mixed shampoos j
—even the most expensive—contain too much j
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
scalp and makes the hair brittle.
Really the most elegant and safe thing to '
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponfied, hut quite greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—hut is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things.
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces lasts you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it through—thoroughly. One
or two teaspoonsful is plenty to create a big
quantity of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully and rinses out easily.
The hair dries quickly and easily, and comes
out brilliant, soft, fluffy, wavy and fresh as a
daisy, looking much thicker than it actually
is.
Best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn't washed it at all. And yet
it loosens and carries off every bit of excess
oiliness, dust, dirt or dandruff scurf.
Instantly ! Corn Pains Vanish !
Corns Loosen! Lift Right Off !
No Hurts! Few Drops Loosen Corns and Callouses so
They Brush Off—Never Let Corns Pain
Twice—No Joke!
X
For a few pence you may obtain
a little phial of the wizard inven-
tion, Frozol-Ice, recently discov-
ered by an eminent chemist.
Merely inquire of any chemist
for a tiny bottle of
Frozol-Ice. Put a few
drops on to a sensitive,
throbbing corn or callous
ancl like a flash all soreness
goes away, and soon you find
the corn or callous so loose tnat
you can lift it right out with the
fingers.
Just fancy! Not one trace of pain in apply
ing Frozol-Ice, or afterwards. Not the slight-
est inflammation of surrounding healthy flesh.
Corns between the toes, hard corns, soft
corns, also toughened callouses on the bottom
of the feet wither up and fall off without
hurting one wee bit. Frozol-Ice is a scientific
substance manufactured from ether, and the
genuine is always sold in these little bottles,
inside a round, green carton.
Refuse false imitations with similar names.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour -acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would Soon And their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indi-
gestion.
I Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
'and intestinal disorders and is very pleasant
! to the taste, and in the form of fine P°^“ e .
never liquid or milk, and is not a laxati e.
Any first-class chemist can supply you with
this Salix Magnesia.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exqueste
“Vaudeville Vet”: Jim Bain, after 20
years away from office life, goes to a N.S.W.
Government desk in Davy Hall’s Department,
confidently leaving the family name as far
as the theatre is concerned to 17-year-old
daughter Verna, who threatens to be Aus-
tralia’s nearest approach to Genee. Bain,
who went to school in Ipswich with E. ,T.
Carroll, was a real lion-comique in his day,
and when he toured with Charles Godfrey
the latter ungrudgingly admitted it. God-
frey drew the houses but not the applause.
Bain sang seven songs each night, and God-
frey stood in the wings and helped him to
change his clothes for each number.
“Hamfat” : We are a long-suffering people ;
nevertheless scores of protests have been
lodged with the police recently about the
"The Little Damozel ,”
at Sydney Palace.
Norman Pearce as
Walter Angel.
deluge of noise in
Sydney streets. It
seems that the Law
is affected by a
reverence for Art;
and, its knowledge
of the thing it
reverences being
very vague, i t
dreads to interfere
lest it should be
taken for a Philis-
tine. Yet, if I,
Walter Hamfat,
actor, seeking a liv-
ing that hostile
managements deny
me on the stage,
should hold up the
traffic in Pitt-street
while I introduce
the art of Shaks-
peare, I should cer-
tainly be moved on,
if indeed I were
not removed to the
Reception House.
Why the distinc-
tion? My perform-
ance would have
this advantage, at
any rate: it could
not be heard much
beyond the limits of
the crowd that
would gather to wonder what had gone
wrong with the poor chap.
“Hiphen”: No revue, musical comedy or
variety show is complete in London at pre-
sent without some reference by the comedian
to Aussies and matrimony. It is the sure
laugh-winner. In “Who’s Hooper’ the comic
gent, who is suffering from loss ot memory
suddenly finds himself possessed of a couple
of wives and a fiancee. He sits puzzling the
matter out and finally exclaims; Why, 1
must be an Australian!” In "Afgar the
deserted wife rushes off crying: "Oh, where
shall I look for consolation?” Whereupon
the funny man shouts after her: “Don t you
know any Aussies?” Arthur Roberts (the
old man is still going strong) in ticking-off
it stout, elderly charmer winds up with:
“Who tempted the Aussies?” In "Betty
the humorous person asks a lady: “Are you
married,, single or Australian?” Any refer-
ence to “Aussies” and “hussies” always gets
a roar. It is a safe bet that at one in
three music halls this chestnut’ll turn up
in some form or other in the course of the
evening. A man rushes into a police station
and excitedly says he wants to give himself
up for bigamy. “All right, all right!’’ says
the sergeant; “take your place in the queue
with the other Australians.”
“Ox” : Allan Wilkie is offering £lOO for a
M.L. play. He means, of course, a play he
can act in. It is not much, but it is a be-
ginning, and more direct encouragement than
has been offered by any other management.
Australian managers hate scripts like a bad
house chiefly because they are not competent
to judge the merits of a play on the written
word. J.C.W., Ltd., is said to have paid
£l5OO for the rights of “Lightnin’ ”; but
“Lightuin.’ ” written by an Australian and
submitted in IMS., would probably never
have got past the reading stage. It might
not have got even a reading. Australian
managers visiting America buy plenty of
NOW, WHAT DID TIE BEGGAR
MEAN?
ACTOR: “ Fine tour? My hoy, my success
in the country was simply phenomenal.'’
FRIEND: “ Your success, old chap, would he
phenomenal anywhere."
what they see and nothing of what they
read. The truth is the reading of play scripts
is*a ghastly bore; but in the interest of home-
grown playwrights it is up to each of the
bigger managements to have an expert reader
chained to his office door-knob.
“Vaudeville Vet” : A Sundry Shows writer
says of the Egbert Bros’, paper-hanging fun
in the J.C.W. panto that it has already been
seen here. But the Egberts are working old
junk only to this extent —that the stunts
were originated by them and have been in
their repertoire of foolery for many years.
In vaudeville the originator seldom gets the
full benefit of his act. The Schwarz Bros,
who invented a mirror act (one pretending
to be the other’s reflection ) crossed the Chan-
nel with the infant only a few weeks old, and
found its twin brother already on the market
and doing nicely. The same tiling applies
in a greater degree to songs. When Sam
Mayo came to Australia he found a notice
on a Rickards stage-door: “The following
songs are reserved for Mr. Tom Dawson.”
The list included many of Mayo’s original
numbers. He wired Dawson : “Can you give
me permission to sing some of my own
songs?” Dawson replied pleasantly: “Cer-
tainly. Take your pick.”
“Aisle Seat”: The principal member of the
Fishers who supply Sydney’s Cinderella pan-
tomime with a human crocodile act was on
his way to the final dress-rehearsal when he
collided with a tram. Fisher is a contor-
tionist, and he did a more wonderful act
under the car than he ever did on the stage,
and his ability to tie himself into knots
probably saved his life. His sister bravely
took his place in the crocodile skin while lie
took his place in the hospital.
“Ike I’agliacci”: Nellie McNamara came
back by the Ventura with a Fuller vaude-
ville contract. In 1910, when she was Nellie
Mond, her contralto surprised Melbourne and
all sorts of good things were prophesied for
her future. Funds were provided for study
in Europe under the swellest teachers, and
just when the steamship tickets were being
bought Nell surprised people still more by
running away from it all and clearing out
to America to look after a 17-year-old brother
who retaliated by getting married. Nell
joined up with the Pollards, with whom were
Ina Williams, Harry and Daphne Pollard
and Ivy Moore (sister of Carrie). Ina Wil-
liams was the kid in early productions of
“The Fatal Wedding” after Maisie Posner
quitted the “little mother” job. She is now
a Schubert star, weighs 801 b.. and is a
“knut comedienne.” Daphne Pollard has
just returned to Uncle Sam after undeniably
big successes in Paris. Harry Pollard is
the bad, sad friend and neighbor of Harold
Lloyd in the Lonesome Luke movie comedies
much laughed over in Australia. Those
flicks are put out by the Rolin Studios and
directed by Australian Alt' Goulding who
was producer for the Pollards. The brother
Nellie McNamara went to mother is now a
producer for the influential United Booking
Offices of the U.S.A.
“Bunder” : The English stage lost heavily
by the death of Herbert Jarman. Pneumonia
took him off at 48. Jarman served in the
Air Corps during the war. He was a recog-
nised authority on “period” plays, possess-
ing an extraordinary knowledge of the man-
ners and dress of the people of bygone ages.
“Iliphen” (London) : Dorothy Brunton,
who has had a bad run since leaving Aus-
tralia, is leading-ladying in “Baby Bunt-
ing” at the Shaftesbury; Fred Leslie is lead-
ing man in “Laughing Eyes” at the Strand ;
Ivy Shilling is premier-dancing in “Maggie”
at the Oxford. In “Who’s Hooper” at the
Adelphi is little
Eileen Cotty, late of
the Williamson
chorus. Though not
yet promoted from
non - commissioned
rank, she is graceful
and dainty and more
than holds her own
with her English
chorister sisters. Our
old friends the Two
Bobs have aban-
doned vaudeville for
rev ue, and are
appearing in “Bran
Pie” at the Prince
of Wales. They hand
out most of their old
rags and wheezes.
In Manchester Con-
nie Ediss is playing
with Cyril Maude.
Called to the foot-
lights after the first
night of “Lord
Richard in the
Pantry,” Cyril made
reference to the err-
thusiasm and sympathy of Australian audi-
ences. Undressed revue is still the great
money-earner in London.
Freda Sternberg’s hullo from N’York: —
Rupert Atkinson, poet and land-owner, is on
Broadway, talking with managers about his new way
of lighting the stage. He has managed to command
a good deal of attention, and at least three managers
have read his plays, which is something in these
days. The theatrical strike is now a thing of the
past, but it left behind it a great congestion. Plays
that should have been on months ago are held up,
and stars are yelling with rage at having to look
on at “thousands-turned-away” houses.
Even the shimmy is doomed. It is to be banished
by Michel Fokine, a Russian who has reached New
York, and whose present -work is the ballet for
“Aphrodite”—said to be the most daring production
ever staged in New York. Its curtain will rise
next week, and those who profess to know prophesy
a one-night run. Every seat is sold at the most
fabulovn prices.
James Watts, formerly of J.C.W. cos., is piling
up dollars with the Greenwich Village Follies. He
is starring at a salary that dazzles .even a prima
donna, and one of his pet stories is of the daty
when he asked the Firm to raise his salary as a
chorus-man from three pounds' a week or give him
a part.
“Wedding Bells,” a comedy by Salisbury Field, is
one of the hits on Broadway. Field is married to
the step-daughter of Robert Louis Stevenson, and
she has tales to tell of the days she spent in Sydney
at the time the family was living at Tahiti. She
was one of the ringleaders at the Stevenson birthday
celebrated last week at Long Island. Irvine Cobb
was there, too, brimful of battle yarns.
Evelyn Seotney put another feather in Australia's
cap when she appeared in “La Juive” at the Metro-
politan on Saturday. Caruso was in the cast and
the house was enthusiastic.
Doris Madden gave a piano recital at the Aeolian
Hall last werti, and the critics splashed adjective-:
next morning. None of them forgot that she was
the niece of the late Chief Justice John.
Lovie Mueller, otherwise Madame Ettore Cadorin,
is back in Now York with her spouse, who is once
more in mufti after fighting for Italy. They have
a studio on Riverside Drive, and while sculptor
Ettore talks of the war he executes orders for
millionaires. lie did some good work for Italy
just before the signing of the Armistice— went
through America lecturing on propaganda lines.
“S.T.S.”: The censors must have been
nodding when they
passed the last few
feet of the new
screen-play “The
Avalanche” ; or else
they have odd ideas
of morality—and
one has often sus-
pected that before.
The charming young
married woman has
drifted into grave
trouble, including
homicide, through
an inherited gamb-
ling instinct. Being
saved from the
trouble by the self-
sacrifice of another,
she, according to
the screen, resolves
that a generation
to follow shall not
suffer from th e
tain t. “Prohibit
gamblingV” the in-
nocent Australian
asks. Not at all;
the sophisticated
American simply
prohibits the next
generation. The pic-
tures show her
playing happily
with three dream-
children. T h e s e
fade away, and she
is left telling her
husband that she is
quite happy with
him. One knows
that “without pti-
cumbranee” i.s the
motto adopted by
“As You Were," at
Sydney Tivoli.
Ellis Holland as
Diogenes.
some; but this is the first time the screen
has idealised the practice.
“Ancient Prompter’’: Soldiers as supers?
Not for me ! Nothing is real on the stage,
and a real soldier when ho is wanted to look
like one before the footlights immediately
becomes a self-conscious amateur actor. Ami.
contrariwise, when he isn’t wanted to be in
any way military he becomes every inch a
soldier. I was holding the book on one
occasion for a production in which we laid
some “real” artillerymen.' Our stage-
manager nearly went dippy in his endeavors
to get the super-soldiers to look a little less
stiff and barracky. Finally he roared in
his best sergeant-instructor tones, “Stand
easy!” That wasn’t a success even. “No.
no,’’ he wailed. “Oh, damnitall, stand a,s if
you were in a nub!” The result was much
more satisfactory.
“Le Papillon” on London’s latest “rage”:
J. M. Barrie is losing his punch. After composing
a musical comedy for Gaby Deslys which was a holy
frost, and writing an introduction to Daisy Ashfords
nine-year-old fiction, he has now composed a choreo-
graphic drama, pantomime ballet, dance-poem or
some such thing, in an endeavor to immortalise the
quick light patter of dancing feet belonging to
Tamar Karsavina, who was the rage in London la it
year. I happened to be there when this lady was
introduced in June, 1913, and she was no great
shakes when all is said and done. Having seen
Pavlova and Novikoff in May, we had no time for
Karsavina and Nijinsky in June. The Russian Ballet
which used to ploy turn about at Drury Lane with
the Russian Opera Co. was brought over from Paris
by Sir Joseph Bo.echam. It was an astonishing
enterprise at that time, and should have been a
failure, but, strange to say, it wasn’t. The Karsavina
-show opened on June 27 with a pantomime ballet
called “Le Pavilion D’Armide,’’ a dance-poem called
“Jeu.V and a choreographic drama, “Schehezarade.”
The dance-poem, composed by Nijinsky, the Russian
male dancer, with music written by Debussy, nearly
drove the first-night audience frantic by its unutter-
able lunacy. Karsavina and Nijinsky, in a da A
garden seeking for a tennis-ball thrown over by the
Second Girl (and, of course, not finding it for
fully half an hour), and executing weirdly grotesque
postures (supposed to be dancing) were a corvbantic
scream. In the last item, “Schehezarade,” Karsavina
had her legs and chest nicely stencilled, and got in
a lot of neat foot-work as Zobeide with her favorite
Nijinskyq but at no time appeared to be in the same
street as Anna Pavlova. Pavlova and Novikoff,
rushing on to the stage like two untamed steeds in
“L’Automne Bacchanale,” and the unapproachable
ethereal grace and elegance of the divine Anna in
“Le Cygne” (Saint-Saens), are not likely to be for-
gotten in a hurry by those who saw them.
0. Ockney” : No wonder Bert Bailey finds
it difficult to get an opening for “On Our
Selection” in London. Theatres can’t be got
at any price. ‘‘Dot” Boucicault is unable to
produce even the new Pinero comedy, and is
staging it, therefore, in New York.
“Plus Tax”: A. Brandon-Oremer quits
producing in Australia. Recently he had a
trip to Java, bringing back many cigars but
more malaria, and he has never been quite
right since. So he will go to London and
renew acquaintance with the spots where, as
a boy, lie toured with “Pepper’s Ghost.
THE PROPERTY-MAN’S YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were making a fortune in the “smalls”
With the great sensation play,
“The Girl Who Dwelt in Marble Halls;
Or the Barmaid’s Holiday.”
And I was the bloke who made it go,
As the manager would confess, 1
For the “burning staircase” was the show,
And that was my work, I guess.
Whenever I think of that staircase I
Want to curse the “heavy lead,”
Who went on a bender at Boggabri,
And his acting ran to seed.
Among my “props” he prowled around,
A norribly thirsty man!
And without me knowing he must ha’ found
My methylated can.
Now methylated was the stuff
I poured upon the tow
I’d fixed around the stairs—enough!
I’m giving away the show !
At the stage-mag’s cue I lighted it,
And it flared and blazed away,
Till the simple folks, the gods and pit
(Lord bless ’em!), shrieked “Hooray!”
But at Boggabri our pitch was queered—
We had to lower the rag,
For the methylated had disappeared,
And the company couldn’t gag.
When I rushed to the room of that “heavy” man,
I got the jumps, d’ye see?
For there on the floor lay the empty can,
And beside it there lay he!
But he’d got more jumps than ever I had ;
And his language —oh, my word!
The people in front a-course got mad,
And gave the show the bird.
In less than a week the crowd went broke,
For biz was simply dire,
All through that perishing “heavy” bloke
A-drinking the perishing fire!
VICTORIA.
EARDEEY TURNER.


<o*
❖
&
In spite of the fire, business carried
on as usual at tbe same address.
itettM thetftefs
0061
0621
m
u*. , - *
n
; :' ."
062!
£22!
¥
5221
02x1
~.v ;
K«
in
CROMPTON
, Generators.
This is the Historic Crompton-Burgin Machine. We
are anxious to secure one of these machines in good
condition, and will Reward anyone who enables us
to do so.
We Manufacture
Alternators.
Motors (A.C. 8 D.C.).
Converters.
Switchgear.
Dynamos.
Boosters.
Instruments.
Searchlights.
Present
Design.
m.
m
m
m
m
i :■<
3:
§ ;
■ - ?
ll
2S*
IH6L. v.iwi
'
Jia: --■ - ?!swiMi |
■
9
i
v.-;
SEND FOR DETAILED LISTS.
CrOMPTON&€L°
ESTABLISHED 1878.
The Oldest British Firm of Electrical Engineers,
BRANCHES: SYDNEY—Crompton & Co., Ltd., 35a York St.
MELBOURNE—Crompton & Co., Ltd., Collins House.
AGENTS: WEST AUSTRALIA—Geo. Wills & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Murdoch Bros., Market Place, Hobart.
WORKS: CHELMSFORD, ENGLAND.
PLEASE MENTION “BULLETIN” WHEN REPLYING.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOCRLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mallei! Free to
Any Aildress
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st 'treet,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
states, 3d.
Missing Friends.
MORRISSY, MICHAEL (son of John Morrissy and
Anne Lantry, of Nicholson Street, Carlton, Vic-
toria), who went to Western Australia about 19
years ago and was last heard of at Greanbushes,
W.A., will hear of something to liis advantage by
communicating with National Trustees Company,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
DYSPEPTICS CAN EAT WHEN THEY
LIKE
if they take Bisurated Megnesia immediately
after eating. No matter how badly you may
suffer from indigestion, dyspepsia, flatulence
or acidity—no matter how many medicines
you may have tried without success —do not
give up hope. Thousands who once suffered
as you now suffer —who had tried everything
without obtaining relief—now enjoy perfect
health, and can eat almost anything without
the slightest pain or discomfort. You can do
the same if you will go to-day to any chemist
and get a package of Bisurated Magnesia.
This is prepared in powder form for general
purposes, and as tablets for convenience in
carrying in handbag or pocket, being thus
ready at hand wherever and whenever re-
quired. Take half a teaspoonful of the pow-
der in a little water, or two or three tablets,
after every meal or whenever pain is felt,
and you will be delighted at the result. The
reason is not far to seek. Directly Bisurated
Magnesia is taken it neutralises harmful
acids, and at the same time soothes the in-
flamed lining of the stomach, and thus
ensures normal digestion and freedom from
nnin. Do not wait; do not delay. Get
Bisurated Magnesia to-d°y. and forget yon
ever had a stomach. —Advt.
The A.I.F. cricket team is to meet the
formidable Vic. XI to-morrow (Fpiday). On form
the soldiers should win. The side is a remarkably
solid batting combination, Collins, Willis and
Pellevv being the stars, and the bowling of Gregory
and Collins has baffled England’s best- Their aver-
ages for the recent tour were, respectively, 18.19
for 131 and 16.55 for 106.
* * *
N. S. Wales v. S. Aus. at Sydney last
week was a dull affair. S. Aus. had first use of
the wicket and totalled 249. Six of the team were
out for 141 when Bridgernan and Williams (both
new to Sydney) started to knock the N.S.W. howl-
ing off its length. They added 86 —the longest
partnership of the innings. Bridgernan (65, includ-
ing 10 fours) is a lively left-hander who gives
his bat the brisk flick of a schoolmaster’s cane.
Oddly enough he was left out of the XI v. Victoria.
Williams’ contribution was 54 (seven fours) and
V. Richardson’s 45. Hendry (four for SO) and
Kelleway (three for 71) did most damage with the
hall. N. S. Wales began in mediocre style—six
of the stars being out for 95; but Hendry (81),
Andrews (69), ICippax (68) and the ever-
reliable Sundries (38) lifted the total to 375.
Five S. Aus. wickets crashed for 65 ; but again
the tail wagged. A. Richardson (95) showed a
pleasing habit of hitting the pickets on the “on”
side, and Don Steele (76) and Williams (28) per-
formed nobly. Total, 287. O’Keefe, played for his
bowling in club cricket but generally overlooked
by skipper Kelleway,,
got the best figures
(two for 17). The re-
quired runs (162) were
knocked up for the loss
of four N.S.W. wickets
(Andrews 69 not out
and Bogle 55).
IT. L. Hendry, N. S.
Wales’s tall, methodical
right-hander, showed
all-round form in the
match v. S. Aus. He
took seven wickets for
70, top-scored with
81, and took three
catches. (Also he drop-
ped two.) He bowls
a fine, straight-over
deceptive hall of a
fashion Feldom seen
nowadays. This season
(his first in Sheffield
Shield matches) he
has a hatting average
of 54.33, and his 12
v/ickets have cost hut
14 each. He was in
N. S. Wales XI v.
Queensland this season,
and also v. Victoria
at Sydney last year.
H. L. Ben dry,
whose batting,
bowling and fielding
were the feature
of the N.S.W. v.
S.A. match.
Left-hander W. J. Whitty put up a feeble
bowling effort for S. Aus. As a matter of fact he
is too heavy to keep up his pace for more than a few
overs. In Sheffield Shield matches this season his
record is six wickets for 356 runs, and, on his Syd-
ney form, the punishment was deserved. But here
he was not alone. Topnotch trundlers on both sides
caught the face of the bat heartily. For example
Mailey (0 for 130), KeUeway, (3 for 120), Andrews
(1 for 74) and A. Richardson (1 for 80).
In the Sheffield Shield matches N. S.
Wales and Victoria have two wins each; little
S. Aus. has gone down in all three games. The re-
maining fixtures are N. S. Wales v. Vie. at Sydney
and Vic. v. S. Aus. at Adelaide. The latter looks a
certainty for Vic. on paper. N. S. Wales’s big win
over S. Aus. by an innings and 330 runs will give
the Ma State a handy lift should it come to a
decision on averages.
“G.N.G.” : On the occasion of the return
match between the A.I.F. eleven and Surrey, in
July, 1919, Collins, the Australian skipper, was
barracked by the spectators for delaying his “de-
claration” when holding a big lead. I was near a
one-legged Digger, next to whom sat a typical
example of the cheap English officer. “Play the
game!” the latter kept yelling to Collins. It was
too much for the Digger. Turning to the Woodbine,
he growled, .“Play the game be blanked! We’ve been
playing your game for the last five years !”
The Yarra was guilty of an unusual per-
formance in District cricket on Saturday. Mel-
bourne’s response to South’s total of 244 had only
reached 122 with two wickets to go when Armstrong
and Mylius got together and doggedly saved the
match by 10 runs. Mylius maintained his position
against the most insidious bowling—he made 16 runs
in 105 minutes—and let his captain overcome the
arrears with a brilliantly compiled 166. Melbourne’s
early downfall was the work of Grimmett, who,
despite Armstrong’s pugnacity, finished up with
seven for 84. East beat Carlton by 25 on the first
innings, Carlton tumbling before Rayson —nine for
59. In East’s second try the result was five for 211,
the consistent Mayne producing 118. Essendon, short
148 on the first hits against P’ran, only avoided a
one-innings defeat with a couple of wickets in hand.
When the bell rang the ’Don’s score was 105 for eight
wickets, seven whereof had been bagged by McKenzie
for 49 runs. Saints, confidently closing with fi v e
for 322, saw University compile the needful with the
loss of six lives (Saltau 108 and N. Fremantle 82
not out). Fitzroy conquered Richmond by 33, but
there was nothing in the game to justify a torchlight
procession. Also North v. Northiote was
solemn enough to make a subject for an oratorio.
Scores: North, 126 and 117; ’Cote, 91 and seven for
75. North’s brightest sniper, Carlton, finished with
the excellent average of 10 for 68.
* * * »
A good trial is being given to country
cricketers of S. Aus., the form shown by those of
the city in inter-State play having been a shock.
On the Adelaide Oval two teams from the North
have been set against each other and two from
the South. These were boiled down into North and
South, and, after those had met, the pick of the
lot met the best team that could be raised in
the city. In the absence of the inter-State XI
Middleton captained the city, and the country-
men never had a hope. A parson named Anderson
was about the best discovered among them. Of
course, coming off matting on to turf is discon-
certing.
* * * *
Victoria’s defeat of South Aus. by 10
wickets was a smaller margin than the home team
deserved. The fact that the Vice, carried their
first score from five for 123 to a grand total of 605
was the worst ad. South Oss’s bowling had re-
ceived this season. Yet, incredible as it may seem,
that total represented the poorest effort of which
two or three Vic. batsmen are capable. Ilartkopf
took the best part of an afternoon to make 49,
and there were siestas in Park’s and Armstrong's
contributions wherein the spectator had to watch
the passing trains to keep himself awake. Both
Park and Armstrong treated much short-pitched, in-
nocent stuff with little pats that produced the hal-
lucination among many critics that the bowling con-
tained some secret sting. As a matter of fact, a
little dash would have yielded many another four
to the Vic. aggregate, and at the same time
damaged a suspicion that the maximum of injury
could be inflicted by slow break bowlers. Anyhow,
none of the googly division came Off for Vic. in
South Aus.’s second hits. It was Armstrong the
medium-paced and the fairlv speedy Ryder and
McDonald who ruined the slender hopes of the
opoosition. But South Oss’s total was only estab-
lished by Armstrong’s indifferent generalship in
the use of his attack. He turned on all his artil-
lery in relays before employing himself, and left
his leg fields unprotected to an aggressive leg-
hitter like the left-hander Pritchard, thus allowing
Pritchard and V. Richardson to cement a sub-
stantial alliance that should have been the merest
entente.
* * * *
Them was a queer reason for the short
price which the tote offered about Alacrity, winner
of the Port Adelaide Cup. While the tote was
working, the marbles denoting pounds invested on
the mare somehow got jambed in their tube. So
she seemed to be hardly backed at all, and a host
of people hurried to take the long price apparently
offering. Then all the marbles, new and old,
plunged down together, and the starting price was
two to one in a big field.
* * * «• *
“Hamer”: The racing business, which
exists for the purpose of improving the breed of
horses, and succeeds in producing troops of nags that
can travel six furlongs with a flyweight on top, also
makes a specialty of breeding “hoys” to ride the
gallant chargers; and some of these miniature men
actually got into khaki. One I met weighed 901 b.,
which was less than the equipment he would be ex-
pected to carry. After his first failure to shift a
full pack on a route march he hovered on the brink
of return to Australia for months, doing light duties
in the camps ; but finally the need for men in France
became so severe that he was sent over. This man,
however, made the joke worth wh'le by keeping other
men in good humor; and he did not lack in pluck.
Of two others who actually reached the line, one
after 14 months’ and the other after two years’ line-
dodging with their units, one bolted from his outpost
two hours after arriving there, and the other was
sent hack as a mere nuisance in anv front-line posi-
tion. Contemptuous pity saved both from punish-
ment, and they were sent to the horse-lines. Another,
who had been used to piloting horses over the sticks,
was in every way a splendid soldier; others were
lamentable. There would be no occasion to make
any remark about the matter but for the fact that
these squibs were undoubtedly a product of environ-
ment and breeding ; and a country that may have to
fight again for its life and on its own shores cannot
afford to have any of its manhood so trained that
they will be no use to it in that struggle. Even if
the horse for which a flyweight jockey is necessary
is a national asset, it is doubtful if its value is so
great that it justifies the breeding of human fließ
merely for riding purposes.
"A.ILL.” : Whilst at Port Said I saw the
innards of a trick which has deceived thousands. A
large transport anchored in the harbor was loaded
with Tommies. As usual there were a number of
feluccas round the ship, some of the niggers wait-
ing for a fare, others diving for the money which was
thrown overboard to them. While being rowed across to
the city from the 14th A.G.H., I passed close by
the stern of the transport, and heard one Gyppo
offer to dive under the ship for a bob. The shil-
ling was duly promised, and down he went. All
the Tommies interested crossed over to the opposite
side of the ship to see him come up. Meantime the
swindler came to the surface not far from where
he went down. But as the ship at the stern bulged
out from above the water-line he could not be
PATTERSON,
the Vic. tennis
champion, who will
be one of the Aus-
tralian team in the
Davis Cup matches
to open at Double
Bay (Sydney)
next Friday.
seen from the deck, as
he was against the
side. He swam round,
rested on the rudder
for a second or two,
then swam along till
the side of the ship
got too perpendicular.
Then he went down
again and came up
about 30ft. away. The
fuss he made was
tremendous. He bent
the water with his
han d s, gasped for
breath and went down
as if drowning, while
the Tommies shouted
to another Gyppo to
go to his assistance.
This was done, and the
actor caught hold of
the gunwale of the
felucca and got his
bob.
A.J.C. Challenge Stakes, Randwick’s big
annual sprint, is causing less excitement than usual.
The shadow of the Villiers and the two Cups is
over the punter’s soul ; and in any ease the race is
one in which the long-priced outsider not infre-
quently comes galloping home alone. Booth’s stable
is sdkpected of sheltering an animal that will take
a lot of beating. This is Maltgilla, a mare
which at two years old showed much pace up
Townsville (Q.) way. Since coming to Sydney she
has started twice. The first time she wasn’t men-
tioned, and ran accordingly. Three weeks later
the rush to get on early swept Ike off his feet
and the lady won pulling up. She has 7st. 61b. in
the Challenge.
* * * *
When J. S. Dove imported Riven to
Queensland a couple of years ago hope bloomed,
but it soon began to wither. On Saturday the
moke collapsed in a small race at
Moorenc-ld (Sydney) and broke his back. Latterly
he had been racing over distances and getting well
beaten with great regularity. It would be a decent
thing if Ike provided the tombstone: the attenuated
English coot has served him well.
Half the animals engaged in the Cai'lton
Mile at Moorefield (Sydney) on Saturday were
ladies, and the race went to Lady Bayard, the five-
year-old sister to the Bananaland performer Nairu.
It was a ladies’ day all through. They won four
out of the eight races run.
At this meeting the Metrop. winner of 1916,
carrying 21b. less in tie Flying than the winner,
La Steppe, finished a bad last. He was only
scheduled to carry Bst. 111 b. Maybe the bill of
costs incurred over his recent disputed ownership
oppressed him.
John Brown sent Richmond Main back to
Marsden at Randwick last week. He is to argue
the point with Artilleryman next autumn. The
damaged hoof has healed; but will it stand being
galloped on ? That is Marsden’s problem. Rich-
mond Main is a big, healthy chap, demanding a
lot of work, and the tracks at Randwick arc hard
during the first three months of the year. Brad-
field has kept Artilleryman moving gently along
at Flemington. He looks better than ever.
Chuck Wiggins fought his last engage-
ment in Australia at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. ITis colleague was Albert Lloyd, who weighed
12st. 21b. —two pounds heavier than the Yank. Wig-
gins has always fought here on wild, not to say
rough-house, lines, and on Saturday the tendency
was more marked than ever. Joe Wallis, ordinarily
a lenient referee, stood his low swings, and h,is head
and heel-of-the-hand work for some time, but when
in the 16th round the American laid Lloyd’s left
eye open with the top of his head, he was ruled out
—an experience that might well have befallen him
in his previous fight with Lloyd. The battle was as
level as it was vigorous while it lasted, with Lloyd
a shade ahead on points.
Digger Evans, one of the athletic wonders
of the war, got back to Sydney last week. He had
never boxed in public when he embarked in 1916.
He was barely 20 at the time, weighed under Bst.,
and had one arm (the left) nearly half a foot shorter
than the other—the result of an accident. He boxes
right hand forward, not because it is natural for
him to do so, but because, in view of his deformity
he must. Within three months of his first match,
which was with a lightweight, he was meeting and
beating welters. In tne summer of 1917 he won the
bantam championship of the British and American
armies, and he followed that up a year later by
becoming bantam champion of the Allied armies.
W ilde got a decision against him on points, but
there were reasonable doubts as to the .justice of it,
and, anyhow, the Welsh boy, at his top, is perhaps
the greatest performer in his class that ever drew on
a glove. Evans will make his first appearance in
Australia at Sydney Stadium on Feb. 7 against the
winner of the Green-Biackburn scrap.
Frank Brogan hustled Blew Edwards ail
over the Hippodi’ome ring in the first round of their
contest on Monday night. Then Llewelyn “rumbled”
him. Early in the next round he jolted Brogan with
a short right and the Australian went down. He
rose and fought gallantly on. Calmly and methodi-
cally Edwards administered another exactly similar
dose, and it sufficed. A -great little scientist is
Edwards; it is doubtful if there are more than
three or four lightweights in the world capable of
extending him.
According to a New York cable, Kearns,
Jack Dempsey’s manager, says that the fight with
Carpentier will be staged at Tia Juanna, Cali-
fornia. In California decisions are only permitted
in four-round contests. It is absurd to suppose
that the public will spar up £83,000 (which is
the bid Coffroth has made for the fight) to see either
a four-round decision fight or a 20-round no-decision
one. Louisiana and Colorado are the only American
States where the law allows prize-fights on cham-
pionship lines. London looks the likeliest place
for the big match at the moment. There is a
boom in pugilism resembling that which engulfed
Sydney when Tommy Burns first arrived, and again
when Les Darcy was in his prime; and the war-rich
are paying fantastic prices to see the merest third-
raters perform.
The Oxford and Cambridge boat-race is
to be rowed again this Spring (English) after a
six-years lapse. Down to 1915 it had occurred
yearly since 1856. J. A. Campbell, who is training
with the Cambridge crew, rowed No. 7 for Melbourne
Grammar when they went head of the river in 1918.
* * * *
N. S. Wales amateur cycling champion
Gerald Halpin broke both his arms last week. Only
a few days before he had equalled his own record
(30sec.) for an unpaced quarter-mile.
Norman Ross cleaned up some more
N. S. Wales swimming championships at Sydney
Domain Baths on Saturday. He beat the Ma State’s
best pointless over 100yds. (58sec.) and half-mile
(llmin. 24 l-ssec.). In the former event the N. S.
Wales sprinters were tipped to make things lively;
and so they did for about 30yds. After that Ross
won as he liked (officially it was by three yards)
from Keith Kirkland and Sid Beck. In the 880
he swam with exceptional regularity; after rattling
off the first 110yds. in Imin. 13 2-ssec. he left the
other seven awash in 1.24 3-5, 1.28, 1.29 3-5, 1.28 1-5,
1.27 3-5, 1,28 4-5 and 1.24 1-5. Billy Longwortli
stuck to him for a while, but at the finish was over
60yds. astern. Ross’s efforts here entitle him to
bo regarded as true to label, and he is also an
adept at turning and diving.
In other classic events E.. G. Finley (holder) re-
tained the 220vds. breast-stroke title in 3min. 25see.;
R. Provan (holder) kept the diving championship;
and the promising O. Griffiths took the 100yds.
Junior State championship in 63 4-ssec.
Ross has now captured all the Ma State’s swim-
ming championships with the exception of the mile.
He will probably be given an opportunity to collect
that when he comes back from his tour of other
States.
There was enthusiasm mingled with wonderment
when young Morris, aged 8, annexed the 50yds.
junior handicap. He is ehockful of pluck and used
his head. After swimming for 33yds. on his breast
he suddenly broke into a double over-arm action
which caused the onlookers to fairly gasp. He
appeared later in a diving event and executed a
stylish header from a 20ft. platform.
Duck-shooting in S.'Aus. begins on Feb.
I, but there was a strong attempt this year to get
back the former privilege of shooting during the
Now Year holidays. The suggestion in the South-
east (Mount Gambier) district, where ducks are
thickest owing to the general presence of lakes, is
that, with the unusually dry season, the surface
waters will have disappeared before February.
Nature-lovers and scientists, however, raised a coun-
ter erv that, with the present scarcity of water,
the birds will have crowded into small spaces, and
that the slaughter would be horrible. So the
Government took the obvious course of not inter-
fering with the law.
* * * *
“Wally” Marks on Saturday celebrated
his recent return to the Federal House by landing
the Sydney Amateur Club’s ocean race (from scratch)
with Culwulla IV. He gave away 27min., and won
with 20min. to spare. Rana (3min.) and Triton
(scratch) filled the places.
* * * *
Billy McDevitt (Tas.) and Reg Short
(N.S.W.) rowed over the Parramatta course on
Saturday. McDevitt has shown some of his best
form in Sydney ; Short, a big-shouldered lad of 6ft.
Olin., is a “find” from Como (N.S.W. South Coast).
McDevitt’s experience stuck to him, and he won
a fine race by three lengths in 22min. 12sec.
Still, Short’s style and grit highly impressed the
experts.
* * * *
In the Botany (Sydney) Club champion-
ships on Saturday, A. W. Winter won the discus-
throw (99ft. lin.), high jump and 120yds. hurdles,
and was second in the 161 b. shot. Then, from scratch,
he won the standing hop, step and jump handicap
with 30ft. lOin.—an improvement of sin. on the
previous best Australasian record. He is a recently-
returned Anzac.
Two other noteworthy efforts in Svdney athletics
on Saturday were champion W. W. Hunt’s 100yds.
in lOsec. and J. K. Harbison’s high jump of sft. 9in.
THE PARSON’S PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is contended in Bathurst (N.S.W.) that the
present monetary inducements for the destruction
of the fox are ‘seriously affecting the attendance
at the churches.’ Shooting parties spend their Sun-
days in hunting foxes for the value of their skins.”
Dear Brethren, —Do you ever think
What Sunday nuans to us
In clothes, hats, boots, and food and drink,
And fares, in train and ’bus?
Ah, no! Or you would never play
And sport upon the Sabbath Day!
Friends, you forget, as you proceed
To take your game-bags down,
That there are clergymen in need
Wherever there’s a town.
You load their homes with clamant duns
Each time you load your sporting guns.
It is, no doubt, a gracious thing
To chase the flying fox,
And plug him deftly on the wing
(Forgive the paradox!);
But, friends —-does this occur to you ?
It means we clerics perish too.
You skin your prey and sell his hide;
We, by the profiteer,
Are skinned from morn till eventide.
This fact is therefore clear:
If you persist in hunting, we
Insolvents one and all must be.
So leave the foxes in their holes.
Chase Beelzebub instead
With words of scorn, like blazing coals.
No skulking quadruped
Were half so pleasing to pursue
As Satan and his noisome crew.
N.S.W.
EBENEZER HUNK.


Learn My System of Scientific Boxing
UK CAUSE YOU may have to defend
yourself at any moment. The less
able YOU are to “use” your hands
the more often you’ll have to. The
weakest is always picked out. The
unskilful boxer is at a mighty disad-
vantage. He lacks confidence—he
doesn’t know how to apply his strength
he loses his head —he’s in his own
way. In fact, he’s simply at the
mercy of a skilful man.
My Postal Instruction
Will Make You Skilful.
It lays thoroughly bare the secrets of skilful Boxim”
it teaches every serviceable hit, guard, counter and
move known to ringcraft. It shows how to use and
preserve your strength, how to develop hitting power
how to “fool” an opponent—in short vou learn
everything worth knowing.
VouTl find it a fascinating recreation and healthy
exercise. You’ll look forward to your lessons, and
just think how handy such a knowledge will be
You’ll be ready for any emergency. Remember, an
experienced boxer can give a “novice” a couple of
stone —and beat him.
Wri te your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and 1 will send you my interesting booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Homo.” Send three
stamps for postage.
“SNOWY” BAKER Iv.O. BQXING GLOVES in tvvo
grades, 15/6 and 21/- per set of four gloves Post
free Every set personally selected and guaranteed. Upon receipt of
remittance gloves will be sent by return.
RE.O. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,”
189 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
dfh
ĥfhf
WHEN TOURING
You don't need a map to
tind out where to cet
urmmi w 99
SHELL 1
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
e.
Stim
The Secret of Easy Shaving
©_©
eo
c©
/ i
Do you want quick, easy,
pleasant shaves? Do you
want to keep your face
in the pink of condition,
free from pimples, in-
growing hairs or cuts?
Then Set your Razor on
a PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
he the same —:a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
TRY THE PERFORATED HONE
Tf it doesn’t make, your razor shave to
.vour satisfaction, return it to us within
30 days and get vour money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 5/6 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11 —123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
[7
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAD ENGINES of al! descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 Ci.P.O.,
MELBOURNE.
SHE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
.
-.5 •
LLS
for Crushing
Phosphates
Pyrites
Limestone
Goal
Coke
Salt, etc.
Crushing Machinery
Stone Breakers, Portable Road Plants,
Elevators, Screens, Conveyors.
Semi for our Illustrated Catalog No. 20.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
fa~
S.
1
&
9M
mam
mm
m
0m
mSwM
I
fiEULVHDSfI SfCOM.
THE LIMIT OF VALUE IN “REAL” PANAMAS
Considering that it is absolutely a GENUINE PANAMA, smartly
fashioned and well made, there is no gainsaying the exceptional
value represented in our “L.S.” Special at 21/-
Light, cool and comfortable and distinctly stylish, the “L.S.” Special
will completely meet your present needs.
We have other “Real” Panamas at from 15/- to 42/-. We’re sure
to have YOUR size and YOUR requirements as to width of brim,
height of crown, etc.
CALL OR WRITE WE PAY FREIGHT.
(10% Discount to Returned Men.)
Lincoln Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd ,
“Specialists in Quality W ear for Ale n,”
244=54 Flinders Street Melbourne.


Usual
Price - 21 i -
ƒhfh
Less Cash
Bonus, 18i 11
MEN’S HATS
LESS CASH BONUS of 2/- in the £
SMART, distinctive hats in newest styles from reputable makers are
offered at Farmer's, for ten more days only at Bonus Sale Prices.
SOFT FELT HATS, as illustrated, with fairly flat brims, 2| or ins.
wide, light, medium or dark grey, fawn. Usual, 21/-. Less Cash Bonus, 18 11
FARMER’S =: SYDNEY
WE PAY CARRIAGE “ Che *^ ore for 3&en” EOX 497. G.P.O.
Jjll Cash Customers effect a second saoing of 21- in coery spent.
The Coming Models
Shave designers are very busy.
The models for the coming
season are being evolved. Parfs
and London have given stimu-
lus with ideas. Personal know-
ledge of what is desirable here
enables those ideas to be ex-
pressed suitably. The new
models are to be more wonder-
ful than ever, withal preserv-
ing dignity in line and color.
Displays will be held shortly
in Sydney and Adelaide.
i \
%
SHAVE
Ladies' T ailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway, Melbourne.
Meltonian
IT 1 HIGH-CLASS
JSPE£IALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Asrents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sytiney;
Russell St.. Me bourne.
dfh
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON ji
• ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD |{
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Preaf
Corsets
Those who saw the kite Edmund Barton
picking his way haltingly along St. Ivilda-
road in recent weeks could hardly recog-
nise the plump, post-dated Apollo whose
tailor had made him a feature of every
Federation function. In the days when he
was Prime Minister he was always care-
fully valeted, and when he turned out to a
bit of food every crease in his clothes was
in position. “Toby” was very particular
about his raiment, and it happened one
night that he went miserably to a dinner
in a new evening suit tuat was too gener-
ous. It took him the best part of the menu
to recover his aplomb. Answering an. in-
quiry as to how he was doing, he patheti-
cally mentioned that lie had had seven
courses and was only just beginning to feel
Iris clothes.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen are enlivening
the dull season with a garden-party on the
last day of January.
The Very Naicest are speculating upon
the possibility oil Commander Ramsay com-
ing here to step into the shoes of either
Munro Ferguson or Stanley. He knows
something of the work of glorified rubber-
stamping, as lie was with his father-in-law,
the Duke of Connaught, in Canada, as
A.D.C. It was then that the romantic at-
tachment to Princess Patricia began. Such
an appointment would furnish an oppor-
tunity for introducing another peerage into
the family which might outshine that of the
Dalhousie Earldom held by Commander
Ramsay’s elder brother. They have a son
a week or two old.
Old friends of i>ad,y Stanley are quite en-
vious of Martin Hannah, M.L.A., for classic
Collingwood, who has received from her a
long letter telling him about Sir Arthur’s
illness and the anxiety she felt till a surgi-
cal operation put him on the high road to
recovery. She mentioned that she and her
Ex-Goy. hope to return to Australia on an
unofficial visit some day. and underlined “un-
official” as if'to convey the hint that they
were not looking for the Governor-General-
ship and its concomitants at present.
Hannah is the Labor member who wants im-
ported Governors abolished, but he gets on
with the Excrescencies and their folks when
they do come and settle down. He sent the
Stanley dame a box for her writing-table
made of Vic. timber; hence the letter.
Speaker Mackey and the Assembly clerks
left their wigs, gowns and frills with the
mace at Parliament House when they went
across to get the Appropriation Bill assented
to by Lieut.-Gov. Irvine. His Ex. also wore
his working clothes. If this goes on the
stage will have none of the outside competi-
tion that it had to put up with in other
days.
The Birdwood visit threatens to alleviate
the dead monotony of this stricken summer.
Already dozens of our Best Unemployed, who
had planned to frivol in Tasmania, are
strike-bound in Melbourne, and won’t cross
the Strait at all unless the ships begin to
get steam up soon. The Victoria League will
open the Birdwood season on January 2D
with an At Home at the Army Nurses’ Cluo
in the Grand Hotel.
Ex-Gaud Mayor Hennessy, his dame and
three chicks left yesterday by the Ormonde
for the South of France. He was given a
send-off by his fellow city councillors at
Scott’s on Mondav. The three girls will
have a special course in French, so that
they will be able to chatter as well as ma,
who is or has been president of the French
League. In May dad will go on to London
and hobnob with Dick Whittington’s pre-
sent-day successor and others. He may even
have tea on the terrace at Parliament House.
A heavily-gilded Melbourne money-spinner,
lately deceased, had a mania for keeping
the most meticulous accounts of his per-
sonal dealings. Housekeeping expenditure
was recorded with extreme exactitude, not
a sixpence being spent without being duly
dotted down in its proper place. The old
man had long passed on the conduct of his
big city business to trusted employees, but
the management of his private affairs kept
him happy. He had an estate in the coun-
try. for which he kept a special set of books.
All livestock killed for domestic consumption
was paid for by Mrs. Moneybags out of her
housekeeping allowance—a very proper
arrangement, of course. One day, however,
the old lad excelled himself when he shot a
rabbit, took it home and demanded eight-
pence from the missus.
When Frank Guthrie, the new Senator,
was declared elected, he received a shoal of
letters of congratulation. One was of the
nature of a “round-robin,” signed by a little
group of admirers in a township of the
Corio electorate. It closed its eulogium and
protestation of devotion with this delightful
touch : “We voted Guthrie 1, Elliott 2 and
Kusseil o, and let the others no to !”
Had the second Senate seat for Vic. been
another Ballarat they would have sent the
object of their devotion to in some
tune! An assistant returning-officer sums
up the electors with whom he had to deal
in this aphorism: “Nationalists and Labor-
ites may be divided easily into classes —
the Nationalists are the best-educated class
and the worst-educated politically: with
Labor the opposite is the rule!” The moral
which adorns the Guthrie story.
Moviedom' and best-selling fiction com-
bined never staged a more dramatic incident
than one which occurred in suburban Coourg
last week. A woman visited a dentist to
have a tooth removed. Next came a ring
to a local doctor and the agitated voice of
the dentist saying the woman had collapsed
under the local anaesthetic. The doc. arrived
at the "dental parlor” to find the dentist
gasping his last amid the restoratives he
had used in a vain attempt to bring his
patient round, himself a victim to prussic
acid self-administered.' Think of the agony
of the poor, frenzied devil fruitlessly trying
his piffling remedies upon the dead woman ;
and then, visioning the inquiries, the peer-
ing constables, the newspaper paragraphs
and the staring headlines, ending the ghastly
business by chancing the less-appalling Un-
known !
Dr. Mollison is a sad man these days. His
handsome wife, who was a daughter of
“Rolf Boldrewotod,” is seriously ill.
Cammie Walker, of the Johnny Walker
whisky clan, is coming back to Melbourne
again as soon as he can get passages for
himself and his wife. She is a sister of Bob
Ramsey, who married Bertie Baillieu. The
pair have lived in England since their
marriage about eight years ago.
The post-war habits of London restau-
rant customers seem to be growing more
hilarious than ever. A recent copy of an
illustrated weekly contained a photo of a
reunion dinner arranged by Harry Hawker
and the other Atlantic airmen. On the wall
above the chairman’s head appeared the
terse reminder: “Fireworks are not allowed.”
So “Admiral” Boyd has been told to stand
aside at Ilenty, and Francis, a local coun-
cillor. has been installed as Federal M.P. in
his place. Boyd was made an Honorary
Minister by Bent when he was member for
Melbourne in the Assembly, and he is still an
“Honorable” and railway free-pass holder.
As the training-ship hobby exists no longer
there is the awful possibility that he may
take to sitting on the bench as a J.P., which
ho is entitled to do as an Executive Coun-
cillor.
John King Davis, Lieutenant-Commander
11.A.N.R., who was Douglas Mawson’s under-
study in the Antarctic in 1911-T4, has pre-
served his experiences in a finely-printed
volume, “With the Aurora in the Antarctic,”
which Mullens are pushing under the notice
of their customers. For many months Davis
navigated the Aurora, displaying the consum-
mate seamanship and
nose for danger
which made him
Shackleton’s emer-
gency intellect when
the Nimrod was
nudging the icebergs
in 1907-9. The young
Australian did valu-
able oceanographical
work in both expedi-
tions, and discovered
a large submarine
plateau which in re-
mote ages was a
suburb of Tasmania.
In 1916 he rescued
the marooned rem-
nant of the Shackle-
ton Expedition from
Ross Island, buLdur-
ing most of the war period he was a trans-
port officer, taking a hand, when peace broke
out, in the demobilisation of the A.I.F. This
photo is from the studio of Swaine, London.
Having sold his big house at Malvern to
the Sisters of Mercy, w’ho will use it as a
rest home, Fred Hagelthorn, now out of
politics, is leaving for his farm on the edge
of the Ivooweerup reclaimed land. His active
mind will find plenty of scope for itself, as
there is opportunity for profitable intense
culture on his holding. He is in two or three
city concerns and will be up to town once
or twice a week. Week-ends for old friends
is a pet scheme of hospitality he has in view
when he gets his homestead fixed up.
Mrs. Phyllis Reggie Power, who has been
in Sydney, introducing her English-born
daughter, Faith Mary, to gran’pa Rupert
Clarke, returns to Melbourne presently.
Faith Mary, though only a year old, is a
wonderfully advanced infant.
Senator Pearce and his wife and family
get back to their St. Ivilda bungalow this
week. General Coxen with his wife and
family will then shelter at South Yarra.
Dark-eyed, rosy-cheeked Hilda McMaugh
came back by the Aeneas. She has been
away for three years—was nursing in
until the war .stopped, and then went to Eng-
land to draw the first certificate issued to
a British woman as an air pilot. She has
looped the loop and performed other hair-
raising feats, and reckons that piloting an
aeroplane is much easier than driving a car
—“there are no bobbies and no crowds up
there.”
The Edward Jenckens’ son, just home agaiu,
has shed his Territorial captain’s uniform,
and will hurry off to a job in the Colonial
Office after a few weeks in his native Aus-
tralia. Younger sister Margaret is prepar-
ing for her wedding with Ken Menzies, who
was an airman even before the war, and in
his leisure hours an ice hockey-player.
Cecil Parkes, here caught by Sears, is fur-
ther proof of Australia’s ability to produce
musical phenomena. The youngster was a
public performer at six, and was just on the
brink of his eleventh birthday when he looted
the prize-lists at the Ballarat Competitions.
At 14 he had done America, gathering cart-
loads of compliments that are usually
rationed among older
celebrities, and even
provoking a How of
eulogy from Ysaye,
the Belgian violinist.
C e c i l’s amazing
y o nth disqualified
him for an appear-
ance with the classic
Symphony Orchestra
of New York, and he
had to get special
legal permission to
pour out lii.s music
in Colorado. lie is
now 17 and is the
case of an excep-
tional talent that has
flowered early with-
out any Conservator-
ium' help. The nip-
per’s brilliancy is the product of his dad,
long a leading violin in Marshall Hall’s
Orchestra, and before coming to Australia
a conspicuous performer with the Man-
chester Philharmonic Society.
Adelaide writes on a summer day:—
Socially Adelaide is a very dead village at present;
everybody who can manage it has fled to seaside or
country.
Phyllis, daughter of the Cecil Brays, had
a nasty car accident last week. While she was
driving a party of boys and girls to a picnic, a tyre
burst and the motor turned over, pinning one boy
underneath and severely mauling another. They are
recovering, but it was a narrow shave. The young
driver showed considerable nerve, and being almost
uninjured herself set to and rendered first aid to
her party.
After 14 years’ absence in Vienna and London,
Maude Puddy has returned to Adelaide to take up
the position of pianoforte teacher at the Elder Oqu-
servatorium. Sister Rosa, who has been in exile
with her, accompanied her home.
Genial David Hogarth died on Jan. 5, at Smith-
field, after a painful illness of several months. lie
leaves a widow and two young daughters. At one
time he was regarded as the best rifle-shot in
Sonth Aus.
A large crowd waited near the newspaper offices
on Wednesday to see the new Mayoress drop her
New Year messages from Captain Moore’s aeroplane.
The flight was delayed, as the engine developed a
defect, and the aviators were forced to land near
Somerton; but as soon as it was remedied they
completed the flight. Deborah Moulden Hackett
evidently does not suffer from nerves.
Captain Ross Wilkinson, son of W. B. Wilkinson,
returned home last week with the Order of the Nile.
Mrs. John Bagot has left for England, likewise
Nora Stewart, the graceful girl who teaches young
Adelaide the newest dances. They will be followed
shortly by Mrs. Percy Morice and Marjorie Young.
Dr. Helen Mayo and Miss Hornabrook are likewise
preparing to migrate.
Women police have scored again. “A valuable
crepe-de-ehine dress” was missing from the
Children’s Hospital, and two lady bobbies recovered it
in the street. Either they recognised it at ‘ sight,
from the description, or they thought it did not fit
the wearer; anyway, they grabbed both. Now, you
couldn’t expect Robert to do a thing like that.
The high cost of living has seriously affected one
of S. Australia’s most prized scholarships. Thomas
Elder long ago left £lOO a year to take promising
students to the Royal College of Music in London.
The prize has been enjoyed by a succession of more-
or-less brilliant musicians and singers; but Erica
Chaplin, the latest winner, announces that she can’t
go unless outside assistance is forthcoming. Fees at
the College are about £5O a year, leaving only £5O
to live on in London, and nothing for the two
voyages.
Captain Kilby, at one time a genthelp -to
the G.-G., has persuaded the Charles For-
resters’ daughter Peggy to make an altar-
rail appointment. Kilby, who is now
adjutant at the Flying School at Laverton,
is the son of an English cleric. He fought
the Boche with the 21st Lancers.
Philip Aitken, a son of the late James
Aitken, of Dalgety’s, is collecting hatfuls of
congratulations on liis engagement to Mar-
guerite Davis, youngest daughter of the
Toorak barrister and sister of the pretty
Davis twins, one of .whom is married to
Dr. Harvey Sutton, and the other to Dr.
Powell. The bride-elect is a breezy girl,
good-looking, like her sisters, and a line sport.
Actor Cyril Maude’s daughter Pam,
whose husband, Major de la Touche Con-
greve, Y.C., fell in action little more than
two months after their marriage, has agreed
to step into the peerage as the wife of
William Fraser, fourth sou of Lord Saltoim.
William is a major in the Gordon High-
landers.
That part of Melbourne which knows the
story is waiting with interest for further
developments in the romance of a young sol-
dier who married a beautiful Levantine girl
in Cairo. On her arrival here she created
a sensation by abasing herself on the pier
at the feet of her husband’s relatives and
in other ways her manners, though pretty,
are distinctly not ours. The youthful hus-
band talks of returning to Egypt with his
Sphinx, and that has caused another commo-
tion.
Among the gayest of the gay in Melbourne
these days is a fat-and-forty city shopman
who is enjoying a small fortune left him by
an admiring lady-friend. In Westralia’s
roaring ’nineties the dame was in business
as a collector of gold specimens. She did a
highly profitable trade and amassed close on
£lO,OOO before bidding farewell to her large
circle of acquaintances on the lields. Bymeby
she drifted to Melbourne and discovered fat-
and-forty, who fluttered amiably around the
wealth-pot until the end.
At the . Charles Duffy-Mndge Back wed-
ding (it happened on the last Monday in
December) the bride dimpled in pale pink
chilfonry veiled with ivory lace. Aloft was
a lace hat adorned with one pink rose and
a floating ribbon. Mrs. Back, who is an
invalid, hostessed a quiet celebration at
her South Yarra home. The pair are honey-
mooning in the country, the sea strikers
having blue-pencilled the intended visit to
Tasmania, where the Back family lived for
some' years.
Handsome Muriel Cumming, who married
the Talbots’ blue-eyed gent.-help, Captain
Kenneth Buchanan (he is now a brevet-
general), sends word from England that a
second daughter has arrived. The cheers
would have been louder if it had - been a
boy.
• The Arthur On thwaite pair have tripped
off to the Cold Country with their family for
the purpose of holding an exhibition of Irene
Rentoul Outhwaite’s drawings in London.
Wonder what that art centre will say about
them! Correct drawing is not Irene’s
strong suit, nor can her bunnies or native-
bears be classed as original; but she has a
pretty trick of grouping her subjects which
is attractive, and she has caught Rackham's
delicate color-effects very cleverly. While
she is hway she will try to invent a com-
pletely new fairy. One with Rolls-Royce
engines would be quite original.
Another liomecomer by the same boat was
artist May Butler George. When she left
here seven years ago the vivacious little lady
was known as a dainty miniaturist, but now-
adays she is specialising in sculpture and
etching og ivory. She drew valuable hints
from Sargent. Brangwyn, Laverv and other
big guns, and has since exhibited at the
Paris Salon and done etchings on ivory of
such notables as Kitchener, Jellicoe and
Mary Anderson. May was the first woman
to receive an art commission from the War
Office; it was for the St. Quentin monu-
ment. but she has entrusted the top part to
AVeb Gilbert, who is also making for home
and beauty in the near future.
In the Fine Art Society Gallery, which
was formerly the Hun Glub, Lieut. B. M.
O’Connor, M.C., is showing about 350 colored
war photographs. The walls on which por-
traits of Wilhelm the Rejected, Hindenburg
and Tirpitz were hung are now covered
with stirring reproductions of episodes which
led up to Der Tag. The pictures are en-
largements of photographs taken by Diggers
and they provide many vivid glimpses of
Billjim in his habit as he lived and died on
Gallipoli, in France, Flanders, Palestine and
elsewhere. Wilhelm occupies his old place
on the wall of the main room; he is shown
reviewing the Prussian Guard, the picture
being an enlargement from three-quarters of
an inch of cinema film taken from the body
of a dead Hun. John Monash turned up on
the opening day and gave the show a push-
off.
There was a sound of revelry by midnight
at the King’s on Saturday, the occasion being
a supper and dance given to all members of
the “Mother Hubbard” panto co. and some
suitably-selected outsiders by the Barry
Lupinos. Gertie Latchford hostessed, the
orchestra provided melody, and the stage
made an excellent ballroom. The affair
began with supper, and didn’t end until
everybody was reduced to a state of happy
exhaustion. Privileged onlookers were left
wondering why the ballet seemed to enjoy
dancing five times as much when it wasn’t
paid for doing it.


Born 1820
—still going strong
m.
7/.
m
'*V
.lOfciU \
i
V\
S
X
1
m
A
/
ST-
*
T
5?
£
f>c
O
If
£2
,
<a&
SS
Jr
3
41
—i:
3gg
\
V'
\
\
r<
\
m
rs.
\ \
f
/ '
(So&&^ '
I
x
NS
VK
orutv*
i -
\
5^
X
\
\ H
- 1
CHEF : “‘Too many cooks spoil the broth.***
JOHNNIE WALKER: “Yes, but ‘Johnnie Walker* is cooked by time alone.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


Under
Royal
Warrant
dfh
'W'H 01
CHAMPAGNE
/cvN
CHampaCHC
OMalesHeidsieot
'^rr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
(A
Polish'
ttmarno* w
FbRBVTtKtOLACE
OTHbILEA"
liiiK
poA
PTd
fh
yjL.u i nua. i simri * wfiiNu i ntm wnn
f s Q€ad-a,-Tea>r
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT S SO NEAT,
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO
HIS REPAIRS IN A QUARTER THE TIME
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland—
Bennett 8 Barkeli Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
hf
Reviving Social Lite is in-
creasing the demand for
White Glov s, and the most
P acticai White Gloves for
women are Vanity
Fair Siik Gloves.
Smart in appear-
ance, perfect in fit
sold «ith a guar-
antee of satisfac-
tory wear or re-
placement fres of
charge.
Ask your draper
for Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves.
v.f. 8
ƒdh
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
From half-past one till three o’clock on
Friday George-street up from St. Andrew’s
Cathedral was a solid mass of Australians
waiting in reverent silence for the last pass-
ing of Edmund Barton, first Prime Minister
of the Commonwealth. The Cathedral itself
was not large enough to seat all those who
crowded it; in the places allotted to them
were Church and State and Army and Navy,
while in the body of the building were old
and young, rich and poor, and through all
the singing and the eulogies and the prayers
the Great Australian taking the long deep
rest that never could have been his in his
over-busy life.
Just before the service started a verger
carried in a simple bunch of flowers that
had been fashioned by loving hands and not
the florist’s art; and during the first hymn
arrived belated mourners snatching them-
selves away only at the last moment from
the world of the quick to do reverence to
the dead. Through the open doors towards
the north came the. glow of sunshine and the
whisper of green leaves blowing in a fresh
breeze, while the dimness of the Cathedral
was filled with Dean Talbot’s voice reading
the lesson to its final “O grave, where is thy
victory!” Then with one voice the congre-
gation sang “Now the Laborer’s Task Is
O’er,” which paved the way to the Arch-
bishop’s address. Outside the deepening crowds
still waited, sending a gentle overflow into
the soft greenness of St. Andrew’s grounds.
A stillness rested on the waiting masses as
the vergers, laden with blooms, with
wreath and with cross, made their way up
and down the. pathway till three carriages
were filled with the offerings. From one
wreath a white spray fell and lay upon the
gravelled walk. No one picked it up, no one
stepped upon it, till in their passage to the
gate it was trodden under foot by the pall-
bearers.
And so to the impressive chords of the
I uneral March they escorted him : sons and
son—m-law and nephews; Archbishop and-
Chief. Justices; Governor of the State and
Premier Holman; here and there the brown
hue of khaki and the white uniforms of the
Navy breaking the sober hues of mourning.
In silence the great crowd waited till the
last of the long line of carriages had turned
on its way towards South Head. Inside the
Cathedral railings a small girl with bare
feet fell into solemn debate with another
with a tousled head. “What’s his soul?”
asked Bare-feet. Tousled-liead thought a
moment. “It’s the part of you that makes
you always alive,” she said.
Of the womenfolk Edmund Barton left
behind him, his wife was a Miss Ross, of
JNewcastle. Elder girl Mrs. David Maughan
is the image of her late father; the younger
fi’ Air ep^a S* e ’ ,* s a god-daughter of the
late Alfred Stephen, and a daughter-in-law
to Dr. Scot Skirvmg.
Lord Claud JJainilton, who is coming to
Australia as Equerry to the Prince of
Wales, has even more relations in the peer-
age than Dick He is the youngest
son of a duke; one aunt is the Duchess of
Buccleuch, another is the mother of the
Duke of Marlborough, a third is the Mar-
chioness of Larisdowne and a fourth the
Countess Winterton. Hi.s father, the Duke
of Abercorn, is an able man who became a
courtier by the accident of birth alone—he
has been Groom of the Stole, Lord of the
Bedchamber, and so on. An uncle, Lord
Frederick Hamilton, was one of the best
editors the London Pall Mall Gazette
ever possessed, and under the name of “I’.
J. Davenant” he wrote a number of novels.
The young man is 30, fairly affluent, and
single.
General Birdwood writes that he is
already feeling the over-generous hospitality
of Australia. Even in Perth he’s been asked
to make so many speeches that he’s squeezed
dry of ideas. What he can say when he. gets
to Sydney (if he lives as long) he hasn’t an
idea; and if he stayed here a year instead
of a week or so he couldn’t get through the
invitations he has received. The different
battalions have decided to merge their hos-
pitality into one big regimental dinner, and
other bodies will have to do the same.
“Birdy” will visit Duntroon, Kosciusko and
the Blue Mountains.
Major Pain, D. 5.0., appointed A.D.C. to
Birdwood, left last week for Adelaide to
take up the job. Lady Birdwood has re-
mained in Westralia, but will rejoin her
husband in time for the Sydney visit The
party will be the guests of his Ex. and Lady
Davidson. They will arrive Sydney on
Easter Saturday, and their first public
appearance will be at the Randwick -races on
the Monday. There will be a Government
House reception and several dinner-parties.
Australia’s oldest titled family or there-
abouts is in mourning—the Brouns, of Coon-
amble. The late Baronet William s lady
has, after a long illness, followed her hus-
band and the other nine baronet Brouns—
the Scotch title runs back to 10b6, and
family traditions make that date quite
modern. The deceased dame was a Miss
Peters, of Manly, before her marriage; and,
unless there’s been a wedding in the family
lately, the present baronet hasn’t got anyone
to share the very empty family honors.
A daughter was born to the Reg Brouns
at Manly the other day. They belong to
the baronet’s family—one of the few. by the
way, which can show a necromancer in their
tree. Hugh de Gifford was his name, and ne
claimed to have conferred perpetual pros-
perity on the line by means of his magic
arts.
A record crowd, with a big contingent
from Svdney, turned out for the revived Tir-
ranna Race Meeting. W. E. Manning, who
has been race-riding for 20 years, steered a
winner in the Allenby Stakes. He is the
eldest son of the late W. P. Manning, mar-
ried an Osborne, and went to Egypt with
the “Methusaliers" in 1915. Ken Austin,
Arthur Allen’s son-in-law. won the Foch
Stakes for Frank Blomfield. Neither of
Sam Hordern’s representatives did any good,
all the events on the programme being col-
lected by country-owned horses. Much the
same crowd and nearly all the same horses
will be seen at the Bong Bong meeting which
opens to-day (Thursday).
Ola Jane Humphrey, who acted here with
Julius Knight some 10 years ago, has been
re-telling the melancholy tale of her mar-
ried life with Ibrahim Hassan, of Egypt—
this time to a man on the Chicago Daily
Journal. It is becoming a habit with her.
Whenever she feels moody she rings up a
reporter and has a chat about her unfor-
tunate marriage. The novel feature about
her latest communication is the news that
the British Government intends to spar up
a million dollars as compensation for her
sufferings at the hands of the discolored in-
fidel who won her devotion and then, as she
sadly puts it, "pommelled her soundly.”
Hassan forfeited his fortune—including the
"Castle on the Nile” where Ola first saw
the inside of a seraglio—and she is to be
indemnified out of the liquidated proceeds.
Louise Mack is another who passes
through adversity to advertisement, as it
were; and with m-ofit to herself for the most
part. Last week she got lost on a Maori-
land mountain. It may not offer such
promising material for a series of articles as
her experiences in the Antwerp cellar during
the great siege; but it should serve. It
should certainly serve.
David Fell and his new wife have taken
the Lachlan Beatons’ flat at the Albany,
Macquarie-street, for 10 months. The Bea-
tons are at Manly in the Hughes house —
the one which the James Burns family
rented every summer until most of the sons
and daughters got married.
“If you can get to Constantinople and
make your way to the caf6 Maritza, the
Greek waiter Theo-
dore will help stow
you away on a
Ukranian vessel,"
the slim, crippled
Russian officer con-
fided amid the flower-
ing almonds in the
little wood behind
Afion Kara Hissar,
to which the prison-
ers of war, leaving
the barrenness of the
Armenian quarter of
that poppy-growing
Turkish centre, took
their daily walk;
and Australian air-
man Captain White,
who had been taken
by the Turks when
his ’bus failed behind the lines at Bagdad,
had two more threads to weave into the
plan of escape that had obsessed him from
the first moment of his Arabian Nights’
adventure.
The only way to get to Constantinople
was to feign sickness, so White knocked his
ankle about, coached liimeslf up in T.B. bone
symptoms with the help of a doctor-prisoner,
and was duly ordered to hospital in Con-
stantinople. Here he met other malinger-
ers all brooding over plans of escape. One
which lured him was to steal, with the help
of a young Bosnian, a German aeroplane
whose owner flew across occasionally to
Turkish headquarters; but the Bosnian,
while the dearest chap in the world, would
chatter, and throw out hints of the adven-
ture, so that was given up. Finally, when
the hospital doctors found no serious trouble
with his foot and White was ordered back to
Afion Kara Hissar, Theodore and the Mar-
itza had not even been sighted. However,
on the return march to the railway station
thev came to the cai’6, and W hite and some
others put up a bluff of hunger and the
guards allowed them to enter. Beckoning
Theodore with his eyes, the Australian
slipped him a rouble under cover of tbe
menu, and, pretending to give the order,
whispered, “We are trying to escape—can
you help us?” To which Theodore between
the service replied: “In the beer garden in
the Rue de Galata, at the table next to the
piano, you will see a man with a cigarette
behind his left ear. He will help you to a
boat.”
The prisoners set out once more. No
chance to make a dash for it on the way
to the station; but by act of Providence just
outside the station there was a collision, and
in the confusion White eluded his guards and
doing a Doug. Fairbanks jump from a via-
duct got the start of his pursuer. Taking
every turning he came to he dashed into a
doorway opening on a courtyard where two
Greek women were doing the family wash.
After one startled glance to his muttered
“I am escaping” as he vanished through an
inner door, the women went on washing.
Later, in the clothes and the Turkish fez
he purchased from them, he went in search
of the beer-garden and the man with the
cigarette behind his left ear, but the man
was not there. Next he wandered to the
water-front where launches and row-boats
plied for hire, and until nightfall he kept a
decrepit-looking old boatman rowing him up
and down until he lost count of the times
he passed the Sultan’s palace. Then after
the last “Praise be to Allah” had sounded
from the last minaret, he sought the city and
a picture show.
Arriving at one establishment, “for Turks
only,” exactly one hour and a half too early,
he found the programme-boy in possession.
Being a sophisticated little Turk, the boy
wore a Norfolk suit topped by a fez. Secur-
ing from him some chocolate and cigarettes,
the Australian sought a less fashionable
house, and found himself viewing a picture
version of one of Anthony Hope’s novels.
Followed a night spent in a lodging-house
by the water-side where they took him for
a German deserter though he gave a Russian
name. Next morning in the beer-garden he
found his man with the cigarette behind his
ear. Then came the voyage to Odessa on a
Ukranian vessel whose crew were wildest
Bolsheviki, and the greatest comfort the
escapee had was an automatic for which the
vessel’s mate had grossly overcharged him.
Odessa and a job in a carpenter’s shop fol-
lowed ; then a linking-up with the anti-Bol-
shevik army. But a celebration dinner with
some Russian officers (afterwards all slaugh-
tered in an attempt to bold a fort behind
the town), a loan of 2000 roubles from the
very decent Dutch Consul at Odessa and
the missi-ng of a train caused a change of
direction, and he was off to Varna in Bul-
garia. Then came the Armistice, and back
once more _to Australia, where he marries
Vera Deakin, the late Alfred’s daughter, in
two months’ time.
Mrs. Harley Hixson, who has just got
back to Sydney, was Olive Flood before her
marriage. Her mother.wedded an R.A.M.C.
colonel, after some years of widowhood, and
went to live in England. She was a sister
of Mrs. Mackenzie, of Victoria Barracks,
whose daughters married Colin Stephen and
Russell Clarke, two of the wealthiest young
men of their day.
Mention of the R.A.M.C. is a reminder.
During the war it naturally couldn’t be so
exclusive US it once was. So the cliquey
Indian Medical Service said: “R.A.M.C.—
obviously Rather a Mixed Crowd.” But the
Indian Medical Service couldn’t afford to be
so particular either; so the R.A.M.C., which
has no love for the other, retaliated: “I.M.S.
—obviously Infinitely More So.”
Died early in January, a venerable lady,
Mrs. Emma Greenway, relict of the late
Archdeacon Greenway, who looked after the
Anglicans at Grafton, Clarence River, 40
years ago. She was 91 when the call came.
Mrs. Sid Irving (he is the youngest son of
the late cattle-king Clark Irving, of Tomki
Station, Casino) mourns a mother from
whom she had hardly ever been separated.
Writing to a friend in Sydney, the widow
of John Norton announces that she has re-
married. Her second venture is with a Mr.
Calhem, a film artist employed by the Gau-
mont Company. She carries as a dowry
about a third of the earnings of Truth,
under Fitzgerald’s Act. Daughter Joan is
understood to be at school in Switzerland.
Back in Sydney after eight years’ absence,
Agnes Janson, who during that time has
been teaching singing at Melbourne Uni.
Those of Sydney who remember her Carmen
and Mignon will be delighted to hear that
the voice is as rich and full as ever, and
when Madame sings Alfred Hill’s Poi song
you find that the acting which was so great
a feature of her success in operatic days is
as forceful as ever. “Those women of my
time, what they have done with their voices
I do not know; but because they cannot or
do not sing is that any reason why I should
not?” asks Madame.
Captain Saltmarshe, once A.D.C. to his
Ex., who left for England about a year ago
is returning to Sydney. He intends taking
up land and living happily ever after.
Governor Davidson displayed his erev
headgear at the inter-State cricket match on
Saturday and later pushed his way into
the crowded Domain Baths with Minister
James. At the latter place the clown in the
diving act drew public attention to the fact
that his Ex was clapping him. Such is the
heioism of Governors!
Herrnie rvatt was married in her home.
Glanmire Hall m the last days of December.
t°"V Kel f° M ?rton. She had Bishop
L°n 0 ’ of Bathurst, and Archdeacon Oakes, of
Kelso, to tie the knot, and stood up to the
ceremony in heavily embroidered silk net
over soft satin. There were three brides-
maids and three groomsmen to play other
roles. And the turn of bride’s mother and
dad came later when they shook hands with
jWf e f [° m neai ‘ a f d far - Herrnie has
,9 & 1 , . °f Hiyme, and knows every conceiv-
able chime to “Delegate.”
Dorothy Lode; - , of Coogee, who was one
of the most consistent workers at the Red
Ci oss Tobacco Depot for the war-period
married A.I.E .-Sr Stuart Wilkinson at St'
James’s last week. Dorothy, who was giveu
away by her brother, was in white; brides-
maid Winifred Elliott was in palest pink.
. Here is the latest Falk picture of
the wife of New Year’s Knight Richards,
wno has got the habit of being Mayor
of Sydney. The
Mayoress, whose
father, John Booth,
is still remembered
as a Sydney aider-
man, worked hard
during the whole
war-period supervis-
ing the Sewing
Guild that meant so
much in comfort to
the soldiers. A
charming hostess,
she proved herself
during the. Peace
festivities to have a
head for figures,
even the intricacies
of an Official Set
leaving her cool, un-
ruffled and correct.
Ethel Stephens, the portrait-painter, who
gave all her time to Red Cross and other
services during the war, leaves by the Orsova.
She will pursue her art in Paris.
Romance has not died on the north side
of the Harbor. One of its latest fiancees is
a dear old lady of 83 and her beau a mere
youth of 85. It is the sequel to a love-story
interrupted 60 years ago. The man in the
case wants a speedy marriage, but the lady
says “There is no hurry.” Suppose that is
how one would feel after waiting 60 years.
Mrs. Charles Marked came back to Syd-
ney last week with clothes truly wonderful
to behold. The Boston lady has an exquisite
clothes-sense .that is only developed on a
hang-the-cost bank-balance.
Theo Cowan, the sculptor, has been seri-
ously ill —ptomaine poisoning. A fish sand-
wich at a city restaurant very nearly made
a premature presentation of the halo and
wings that are coming to her.
A syndicate of Sydney men—Arthur Allen,
Hugh Ward and Prank McDonald are mem-
bers of it—meditate building a vast new
theatre on up-to-date lines on a block facing
Hyde Park. If it materialises it will probably
be chiefly a haunt of grand opera, with Melba
behind it financially and otherwise.
Back in Sydney after nearly five years’
service, Captain T. Whateley Rose, one of
the few Aussies who fought bn the Italian
front. He wears the Italian medal gained
after the attack on Asiago which caused the
collapse of the Austrians. In civvies Cap-
tain Rose dispenses law. A brother, George,
is technical director of Beale’s.
Muriel Window is turning her bare
shoulder to the Mormons this holiday season.
She ate her Christmas pie in Salt Lake City.
Kirribilli House, which in the old days
was Tom Laurie’s home, is to be sold. Kirri-
billi residents, alarmed by the flat octopus,
are signing a round-robin praying for the
preservation of the prettiest bit of this har-
bor Jutland.
London has been discussing a divorce-
impulse similar to one which, when men-
tioned by the respondent in a Sydney suit
recently, was regarded as preposterous. The
English lady got a decree “to vindicate
herself,” and no doubt to expose the other
cat; and she claimed later that it was under
an agreement with her husband that they
should re-marry. This “later” was when she
had some more Court trouble. The brute, after
he had been divorced on the understanding
before mentioned, failed to put in an appear-
ance at the church! The ex-wife had
gathered many friends to witness her triumph
in luring him back to the bonds, and they
had, instead, a view of the missing groom
vindictively driving past with another bride.
The Law showed little sympathy for the
woman, but it awarded her some compensa-
tion for the expense to which she had been
put for her re-marriage finery.


fHJ
.•feggiir £4
or-
r'r
o] r
err.
mm:m.
*s
=■' ‘-L<Sjr :
r
'**»*£>
• *<*
■MAIN PX-ATsTT *
OAKLAND. CALIFORNIA
■ -
k
BLI
3P
\\
? N . PLANT
P
1
iriS,
am
PORT ANGELES .WAS HINGTON , PLANT
-
ANTIOCH .CALIFORNIA .PLANT
r
S 3!
nS
X
LOS ANGELES . CALIFORNIA .PLANT
m
m
PABCO
PRODUCTS
at your Service
OVER thirty-five years ago two far-seeing men
established in Oakland, California, The Paraffine
Paint Company, the parent of The Paraffine Com-
panies, Inc. They had discovered that “black paraffine,”
as asphalt was then called, could be made into an excellent
preservative paint. With that same broad vision which
was the outstanding quality of the early pioneers, Pierce
and Beardsley, a chemist and an oil expert, planted the
seed of a tremendous industry.
One of the Great Industries of the West.
To-day The Paraffine Companies, Inc., has grown into
an institution which has made MALTHOID, P. & B. and
PABCO Products names known throughout the world.
Fourteen large plants have been welded into a single
organisation which ranks among the greatest industries of
the Pacific Coast. *
High Quality built into Malthoid, P. & B. and
Pabco Products.
From raw materials to finished products the process
of manufacturing is contained within the one organisation.
This enables The Paraffine Companies, Inc., to watch every
process with the greatest care in order to see that only the
highest quality is built into everything that goes forth as a
MALTHOID, P. & B. or PABCO Product.
Malthoid, P. & B. and Pabco World-wide Names,
Whoever has had anything to do with building con-
struction knows that The Paraffine Companies’ MALTHOID
Roofing, the most widely-known of our Products, is the
recognised standard for ready roofing.
All materials which go into its manufacture are
gathered by the Company. Refineries are operated to
produce the asphalt and associated products; rags and
other materials of which the felt is made are gathered
together from all parts of the world. Then, in one of the
largest and finest-equipped plants in the world, under the
constant supervision of experts, MALTHOID Roofing is
produced.
Known throughout the World.
MALTHOID is shipped to many parts of the world.
Sheer merit has built its reputation wherever building goes
on. It has become the standard of ready roofing in
Australia, New Zealand, in India, in South Africa, on the
Pacific Coast of America, in South America, in the Orient.
With the constant growth of The Paraffine Companies,
Inc., the highest standard of quality has always been main-
tained. Completely equipped laboratories keep constant
watch over raw materials. Long experience and complete
facilities have enabled the Company to turn out products
exactly suited to every climatic or other condition.
This Organisation is at Your Service.
The advice and help of The Paraffine Companies’
experts are always at the service of those interested.
Consult us freely.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES, INC. (F. M. Prince,
Australasian Manager), Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
The above illustrations
show a few of our plants
Roofings
Felts
Building Papers
Waterproofing
Materials
Wall-Board
Floor Covering
Induf trial Paints
Pabco Metal Paints
etc.
MALT HO ID
READY ROOFING


‘THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
:\
L^V
C
ft
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by lIARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
177 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Lenqclcifte-
asaOEESJEG
HfSCEEJra
THE. WORLDS
BEST VALUE
S’HORROCKSES’HORROCKSES'MORROCKStS
l&giMihMMMa
SAeefonoa
dfh
fh
Give The Skin
New Life
WHEN you first
observe your com-
plexion beginning to lose
its youthful freshness
don’t neglect it. A little
care each day will keep
you youthful for years.
Try this simple formula—
*'A little CREME ELCAYA
rabbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very-
little Elcaya rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of lacs
powder over all."
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin, like velvet.
Price 2/- per pot
size, 5/-
Elcaj'a Face Powder, 4/0
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4 /(j.
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
20t Clarence Street, Sydney.
e& .. J
Crlme Eicaya
Professional.
MINING GEOLOGIST.
rfIHE BENDIGO AMALGAMATED
I GOLMTELDS N.L. require the ser-
vices of a MINING GEOLOGIST.
The position is a responsible one, and the
salary will be fixed at a satisfactory figure
after the applications have been considered.
Applications, with full particulars as to
age, training and experience, and accom-
panied by copies of recent testimonials,
should be* addressed as early as possible to
the General Manager, Charing Cross,
Bendigo.
4
•V/ • ‘
■
Texas Saddle
No. 90.
This illustrates a Texas type
of Saddle we are making in
our own Workrooms. It is
a Saddle giving Satisfaction
wherever we send it.
ft is made in Heavy Brown Leather, and the Horn
is Forged Steel. The Seat and Cantle are in one
piece of heavy leather, and the Skirts are lined with
Felt. The Stirrup Leathers are 2in. wide, and
have broad Fenders. It is fitted with 2 cord Girths
or Cinchas, and Wooden Stirrups.
£9/17/6
Freight Free for Cash with Order
to any N.S.W. Port or Station on
N.S.W. Railway System.
WE STOCK AMERICAN-MADE TEXAS
SADDLES—-Write for Particulars.
K’BURRA
Stockwhips.
Bft, 12-plait..
Bft., 16-plait..
9ft., 12-plait..
9ft., 10-plait. .
19/6
22/-
21/6
24/6
DO-KOO-KOO-K’BURRA^?
iHiwiitirQ)
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE. 130
PAGES OF INTEREST TO EVERY
HORSEOWNER. SPECIAL FREIGHT
TERMS TO OTHER STATES.
Handles for Bft. tliongs, 15/6 and 17/6. For 9ft.
thongs, 17/- and 19/-. POST FREE FOR CASH.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD,,
Saddlers, 393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fhdfh
1381
AVMV
H3AI9
0001
rsrn
fhd
FREE
1000 Flashlight Torches, vulcanised fibre, heavily nickeled, powerful lamp, strong and serviceable, GIVEN
AWAY FREE to the first thousand Readers of this paper who send in an application for one of our
MAKE-UR-OWN BATTERY OUTFITS.
A modern scientific triumph whereby anyone, even a child, can make a FRESH NEW POWERFUL
BATTERY in two minutes that will OUTLAST, OUTDO AND OUTSHINE any other Flashlight Battery.
A REMARKABLE offer made by a RESPONSIBLE Firm to introduce this MAKE-UR-OWN Battery outfit
into Australia. LOSE NO TIME—WRITE AT ONCE ("enclosing stamp) for full particulars to
SPECIALTY SUPPLIES, Commerce Building, SYDNEY.
L® @ ® ®
•• • •
illiams
'“■DenWactic*"
FtG.vIS.PAT OFF.
Dental
Cream
mm
j.a
d.BV,
OLASTC!
> •
NRBS
V bE**Se RaSs WMs* *•*"■*+*/ v* ■« •* •v •. I 4
>■
Denial Cream
TO safeguard and beautify
your teeth use William’s
Dentalactic Dental Cream
regularly. It is a thorough
cleanser which preserves the
teeth, and keeps the mouth in
a healthy, antiseptic condition.
Williams’ Dentaladtic Dental
Cream is a perfedt dentifrice entire-
ly free from dangerous grit, and
possessing a delicious flavor, that
instantly appeals. Send 1/3 in
stamps, to Williams’, Box 98,
G.P.0., and we will send you post
free a full size tube.
If you prefer Tooth Powder, try Wilh'ams’
Dentalactic Tooth Powder. All chemists.
W.lO
REDUCE YOUR PETROL
CONSUMPTION BY
30 to 40 PER CENT.!
This seems an almost impossible undertaking, but we can
show you actual testimonials from local users —who have
done so on many standard makes of English, American and
Continental Cars by using the
w&mmi
is©
SMITH BRITISH
4 JET
CARBURETTOR.
It holds the world’s record for
ECONOMY—PQ W E R—FLEXIBILITY
—RAPID ACCELERATION-
SILENT RUNNING—EASY STARTING
and ACCESSIBILITY.
The Smith British Four-Jet Carburettor is used bj
H.M. King George V., and was one of the features
of our transport service during the War.
Send for our full list of Accessories. We stock
“The best of everything for the Car.”
Sole Distributors for Australia
S. SMITH & SONS (MA.) LTD.,
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
And at 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. 'Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions voluit-
tartly submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Big B.: Those rabbit-holes painted on the
rocks made a good yarn in grandfather’s day....
Tom 0.: We’ve discussed that subject to tatters.
.... Lawe L.: Don’t send stamps with MS. of
paragraphs. That sort of matter can’t be returned
even if it isn’t accepted.... W.E.S.: Interesting as
a sort of confession ; but there’s such a tremendous
strain on that space... .Wallaboy: Come off the-
reof and walk where human beings live... .H.8.A.:
See answer to “Wallaboy”.... M. Mickie: No; sorry.
... .G.P.L.F.: Far too long. The rule of the
paragraph is to make it a sweet to be swallowed
and leave a taste behind it....Mana: Returned....
Oxley: Will inquire... .L.M.8.: What did Words-
worth do to you ?.... Stephen S.: Your line, “May
God pat him on die back,” recalls Kipling and the
man who “patted God on the head”.,. .H.G.G.:
None any g00d.... W. Angus: “The Problem of tint
Evening” cannot be solved in this office... .Tom
Moore: Lord bless you, Tom, why did ,yo n come
to life again?. .. .Fred B.: Past® i< ir dr back of
your copy of “The Ingoldsby Legends ~..H.K.:
“Night Shift” won’t work... .Dennis' 510p5.,..
Alma 0.: No; but try it in prose— ii plain words
as you would yarn about it.... Reuben A. \Y.: We
forgive you; but don’t take any more risks....
A.L.11.: You seem very young. Better lay off for a
while?—a good while L.P.J.: To revive that style
you’ll have to do a heap better... .Phil R.: The
“Singing Kangaroo” hopped out of the window, and
we didn’t try to stop it....Sarg. K.: Sorry, but it’s
a dud.... Mrs. S.: A child gathering commonplaces
out of other people’s verse and stringing them to-
gether doesn’t give us a thrill. A child singing her
own little song does.... Darius: “Skylark” won’t do.
....P.N.R.: Not quite....M.A.O.: Verse no good. ..
C.J.W.: Doesn’t move us Falling Star: Yes, and
it came a bad crash.... P.8.P.: Goes like a dis-
tressed road-roller M.S.S.: Well, go on to the
“Better Land.” But don’t rely on your verse to
make tucker out of it. . . .R.D.F.: Doesn’t quite man-
age it 11. J. (Marrickville) : Feeling there, hut
scarcely enough interest G.F. (Brisbane): The
verse just fails to carry it C.McA.: Nurse and
lover won’t do. . . .Chick S.: No, “Miss Innocent” has
nothing new or pleasing about her....M.M.: There’s
a picture in “Stormy Night,” but the passion doesn’t
seem real... .T.D.M.D.W.: Not enough marrow in
the bones... .T. 0.: “O’Shea” says very little and
goes rotten in two or three lines R. J.W.: You
revised it and still left “dawning” rhymed with
“morning.” Grow a better ear.... Reginald S.:
Sorry; the work is too rough.... F.D.8.: “Welcome
Home” repeats all the commonplaces of all the other
welcomes.... A.N.R.: Not nearly... .J.D. (Parra-
matta) : All right; have it your own way. You’re a
genius misunderstood.... V.N.A.: Doesn’t get near.
....Rene: Feeble little flutter... .L.L.L.: Glad to
know about the Dardanelles. So the Australians
really did land there ? Ben J.: Not enough in it
for us.... Alice: Could only read about six words;
and they seemed fairly injurious... .A.L. (Adelong) :
Not for us. . . .A.L.L.: Don’t like it. .. . J.C.8.:
There’s novelty in that: —
Ah! if faults we’d amend
Or entomb in silence
AVhen I was just a friend!
If a soul we’d descend
What a halm we’d dispense!
Alas ! the godsend. *
Yet our souls may ascend
Though we lacked connnonsense
When I was just a friend!
Alas! the godsend.
.... Flicker: Doesn’t make a yarn.... J.H.: No to
“Silence” and “Murder.”.. . .Itecip. Cyx: “Fruit
Salad” makes a tedious dish... .A.D.: The “curlew
wails” in vain.... Gulliver: Not attractive....
A.E.R.: “Prospectors” struck a duffer... .G.N.:
“Words” doesn’t grip the subject hard enough or
put its case well enough.... W.11.C.: Nothing in it.
... .The Moralist: Not badly done, but too slight.. ..
Riverina: “Adventurers” misses... .Trevor B.: Not
mu h of an idea and Heavens! how it humped!....
.Tosiah P.: Not for us. . . .Ignoramus: Both metre and
grammar want first-aid and the sense is difficult to
dig out Aecton: Too tottery W.G.W.: Ideas all
right, but the verse wants feeding.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.R.E.: The cigar won’t light. Gag on the invi-
tation is 01d... .A.J.W.: Don’t specialise in disease
jokes. It isn’t an attractive line of g00d5....
M.McN.: The wrong market for “street arabs” or
“urchins.”... .Stuart: An American woman artist
does that sort of thing better. .. .Moola: The stamp
pays its return passage. .A.J.O’H: Gag so weak
that it expired in the Art Editor’s arms. ... A.C.H.:
You offer a handful of excuses. They’re not market-
able. .. .D.F.N.: No joy in them.... Martin: Glim-
mering scratches.... W.A.: Quite like old times.
Where did you get that belle of the ’eighties?
A. 11.: Laborious’jest attached to poor drawing....
Arthur S.: \ r es, but where’s the stamp ?.... L.S.C.:
Too old and muddy 0.D.: She can’t get a drink
here. . . .F.W.: No, thanks... .N.D.: Didn’t get a
place Stron: Gaol for that one Phar: Some
of these days, if you’re found with the corpses of
so many old gags in your possession, you'll lie
charged with bodv-snatching.
“Bad Australian’s” reminiscence :
When Dr. Mclnerney was giving Jimmy Graves
his last run for the Delatite seat (Yic.) I was
doing- a hit of spruiking for the doctor among the
mountain cookies, and when I struck old Thady
Macoolihan and his eight democratic sons I felt
that I was on a good thing. But it happened other-
wise. Some time previously the doc. had delivered
an address on evolution and the Darwinian theory,
and this was reported in the hills. When I started
extolling Mac Thady went off like a packet of
crackers. “An ind t’ yeh for a smooth-tongued
schamer. There's many a sorraful tiling Oi have on
me sowl, but to say that Oi’d be voting fer a
runagate Pagan loike Mclnertney—G—d d—n,
mahn, I ivud not! T’ th’ Devil wid a mahn who
have no more daceney to him thin t’ shtand up be-
fuve the wurruld an’ brazen out that me an’ me else
all ruz out iv gorilhas an’ chimpazees an’ th’ loike!
If Oi had conthrol iv as many rotes as a santypay
have legs to him, ivery lasht won iv thim wud
go t’ Jimmy for this wanst, shmall call as Oi
have t’ love th’ little shly ould fox, annyliow.”
And it is recorded in the annals of Delatite that
Jimmy won.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
'vith Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe, Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 11,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THIS
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir RORERT PHILP
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINF.SS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 691,850 10 0
Reserve Puna .. .. .. . . 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Ethvd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
IIICAI) OFFICE BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
througholit Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund . £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, J*sq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threndyeedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . ■ 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital . . .. .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,820,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers hooked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, January.
R.M.S. MAKURA, January.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Itockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all he visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR AVRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palis, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
we*
m
mm
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve I' un d
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,000,000
3,200,000
4,000,000
£11,200,000
The 11011. Sir Cnarles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
F. R. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.H.R.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
' Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
tfommomwaltbJikiM ° [ SustraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking 1 Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Saving's Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up £2,162,578 2 6
Reserve Fundi. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
I®
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon, H. E. liater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEOROE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales ami Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping:.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE
SUB-COMMITTEE.
Sailings Cancelled
Owing to Present Strike.
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND. —Regular sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREAV STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 0500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 409 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or liurns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumhah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d.
For particulars apply :
ROOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOB JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan, in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” *
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Eimited.
Eitzroy Estates Eimited.
Blackheath Collieries Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOll:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane. „ . ,
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens-
land Ports). ' '
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports) .
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Trices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
STEPHEN GRAHAM.
A Private in the Guards. By
STEPHEN GRAHAM, Author of
“With the Russian Pilgrims to
Jerusalem,” etc. 10s. net.
Prom Liberty to Brest-Litovsk: The
First Year of the Russian Revolu-
tion. By ARIADNA TYRKOVA-
WILLIAMS. 16s. net.
Full of information entirely new to the
British public; written by Mrs. Harold Wil-
liams, wife of the well-known correspondent,
and herself a Russian.
Europe in the Melting; Pot. By R.
W. SETON-WATSON. D.Litt.. Edi-
tor of The New Europe. With
Maps. 4s. Cal. net.
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price 2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per
annum, post free to any address within
the Empire.
The Problem of the Common-
wealth. L. CURTIS. The after-
war relations between Great Britain
and the Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.;
cloth, 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing.
6s.
By the late SIR EDWARD COOK.
More Literary Recreations. Bv Sir
EDWARD COOK. 7s. 6d. net.
ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS.
Ben Jonson. By G. GREGORY
SMITH. 3s. net.
THOMAS HARDY.
Collected Poems of Thomas Hardy.
With Portrait. Bs. 6d.
STELLA BENSON.
Living Alone. By STELLA BEN-
SON, Author of “I Pose,” “This is
the End,” etc. ss.
(Being No. 668 of Macmillan’s
Empire Library.)
His Family. By ERNEST POOI.E,
Author of “The Harbor.” 3s. net.
His Second Wife. By ERNEST
POOLE. 3s. net.
FIFTH EDITION.
Mendelism. By Professor R. C.
PUNNETT, F.R.S. Fifth Edition.
With Illustrations in Color and in
Black-and-White. 7s. 6d. net.
Science and Fruit Growing. Being
an account of the Results obtained at
the Woburn Experimental Fruit Farm
since its foundation in 1894. By the
DUKE OF BEDFORD. K.G., F.R.S.,
and SPENCER PICKERING, M.A.,
F.R.S. 12s. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ďfh
WORTHY
FOOTWEAR.
Abbey Shoes
They are fashioned on excellent lines to
give the utmost comfort and service.
We feature a smart made-to-order style
in Tan Willow Calf.
PRICE, 35/- and 457-
write FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Conspicuously Well Hatted but not
Hatted Conspicuously.
TWEED HATS.
Summer Models.
Stetson
Knox
Herbert Johnson
Tress
Scott’s
A. J. White
Woodrow’s.
1314 George Street I
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY. 1
Dependable Guns
a
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong:.
Price 2/- post free.
dfh
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.1i. Gun, 16-, 20- or 28-gauge, top
lever, case-hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke;
weight about s|lb Freight paid,
£5/10/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS TRIFLES
Smokc Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2o z. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
fhd
825. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
... English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28- or 30-
lncn barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing- to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Tthaca ~pield
812. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 32in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2}in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 771 b. C* Q 1
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid, 3L> / lU/“
Me can also supply the “Ithaea” Gun, similar description to No. 12 but t 1/11/
higher grade 12-gauge at Freight paid, X*l 1/1 1 m
ďfh
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrel, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2Jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. ZllOlf O/
Weight Tflb Freight paid,
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
AUSTRAL ... 3/9 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 10/- in N-S.W.
dfhd
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.Tj.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 25 inch st r pl
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2iin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7fib Freight paid,
*l4/14/-
fhfh
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges;
weight about Tib Freight paid,
£l2/12|-
Steven’s
5.8.8.1 j. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge,
fh
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. c
pistol grip, walnut, stock; weight about 6 Jib. Gun car. be taken apart,
32in.
same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B 7 Auto-Ejector, 47/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
| ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’B GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. |
7C
mjsnwLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
7USD TOBACCONISTS
fh
City Sports Depot
99 King St. also at
JSewcasile l Brisbane


1
mm
X
l
7
Workers All Use REXONA.
Round the Tram Sheds, the Workshops, on the Wharves, and at the
Factories you will hear all the boys say: “Rexona is the best remedy in the
whole country. We all use it.”
All these healthy lads know what they are talking about. They live a
strenuous life, and always wish to be in fit condition; but bruises,
abrasions, cuts and hurts are bound to come their way, in the natural
course of events, and it is when these occur that they prove the worth of
Roxoiia the Rapid Healer.
Rexona—Everyone’s Friend.
There are so many uses for Rexona that everyone is using: it now. One day it may
be found useful for the minor hurts which are for ever occurring in everyday life,
and another day it will prove invaluable for the more serious troubles, such as piles,
eczema and various forms of skin disorders. People in every class of life use Rexona,
from the highest to the lowest, and Rexona brings relief to all; so get a 1/0 pot of
Rexona to-day, and you will soon find it so useful that it will not be long before
you are getting the larger pots holding nearly four times the
quantity, for 3/-.
o
0
o
.V.-*;
THE RAPID HEALER
:-j
Put Assurance and Satisfaction
into the Dipping Tank
If you’re thinking of using a better Qip, if your present
Dip is not giving the results that a good Dip should, put
more Assurance and Satisfaction into your Dipping Tank
by using
Powder SHEEP DIP
Then you'll certainly have the Assurance of definite results—
the Satisfaction of Cleaner Fleeces and Healthier Sheep.
The results it is achieving are proof positive that any faith
in the superiority of Imported Dips is founded upon un-
famiharity with the quality of VALLO.
Look for the © Trade Mark .
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
56
safeguard YOU* HEaltH
0f J.CoSlis Brotfn^s
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
uml in the Cough of JJKONCHITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EISVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains oi GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, ljs, 5/-.
Made in England.
Their Day’s Work.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FULL many a flower has perished
And many a year has gone,
Since Mary kissed her Michael
And Janet kissed her John.
Now, unto the outlaw- Michael
Sw-eet Mary was dear as life;
And John he w-as a trooper.
And Janet was his wife.
Oh, true were the tall, blithe women,
And true were the sunbrowned men;
Yet mouths that meet in parting
May meet no more again!
Now Janet 'was Mary’s sister
In all but the ties of kin —
Fair women, gay and gentle,
And clean of guile and sin.
And John was as Michael’s brother,
Though under hostile codes —
Big-hearted men and gallant
As ever ranged the roads.
They kissed good-bye in the morning,
And each, with a laugh, rode forth;
But John, who journeyed w-estward,
He should have journeyed north.
On the wind the bush was breathing
Sweet breaths from its fragrant mouth;
But Michael travelled eastward
Who should have travelled south,
Though east was the w-ay of Michael,
And west was the way of John,
Yet they who journey eastward
And w r estw-ard meet anon.
With never a care to stay them,
They galloped adoWn the way—
The outlaw on his chestnut,
The trooper on his grey.
Their hearts were in tune with the green life
That nothing of sorrow knows,
And nigh them, clear as dewdrops,
The magpies’ notes arose.
They rode through .the golden wattle,
These two in the days of old,
And each man felt within him
His blood was turned to gold.
They met in the golden wattle,
Reined horse on the narrow path,
And each man felt within him
His blood was turned to wrath.
They fought in the golden wattle.
For n ‘ither would fly nor kneel,
And each man felt within him
His blood was turned to steel.
They fell in the golden wattle,
Thrice firing and wounded thrice,
And each man felt within him
Ills heart was turned to ice.
They died in the golden wattle
That dangled its blooms above.
And birds went back to their singing,
And sang of life and love.
All days in the golden wattle
The song of the bird eoes on,
But. ah, for Michael's Mary !
And, ah, for Janet’s John !
N.s.w.
RODRIC QUINN.
The Wallet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRETT felt her looking at him in that
queer way to which men have grown
used of late. A quiet, unconsciously-
accusing way which said “Why have you
come back and left him behind?” And Brett
was over-sensitive about this, for more than
one woman’s eyes had said it to him since
his return.
Having achieved a loose Australian popu-
larity before the war and being also con-
scientious by nature, he was now keeping
most of his promises made to men who had
gone west. To “see the mater” or “the old
woman” and “tell her what you can, only
put it decently, old chap,” had given Brett
that ghastly time which too many of us have
experienced; but he had not funked any of
those encounters so desperately as he had
done this one with Godfrey’s Doily. Five
minutes since—it felt like a century—-he
had handed over the few valuables and the
little wallet, and still Dolly stood staring at
the ground with the things shut tight in her
widowed hands. Much the same Dolly as
when Brett had first loved her and Godfrey
had won her. Sweeter, though. Sweeter
and fairer and more altogether wonderful,
as women have become to some men after
masculine years of hell. Brett wondered
now, with a grim contempt of himself, what
he had ever been about to let Godfrey have
her. Always he had been a better man than
Godfrey, even before the war.
A faint wattle-scented breeze blew the
tendrils of fair hair on her forehead. She
brushed them aside without knowing wdiat
she did. Then she lifted the clear grey eyes
to him, and they were kind.
“I’m very glad it was you brought me
these, Billy,” she said. “Very. You were
his greatest friend.”
Brett reddened. And yet it seemed to him
that only just now r had he found out that
Godfrey had been his greatest enemy.
“I —I wasn’t with him at the time, you
know. It was instantaneous, as I told you.
In his dugout. I’d just gone, but I came
back and —and did all I could.”
“You’d just gone!”
Her voice was reflective, and Brett winced.
Hadn’t that reproach been already given
with the eyes?
“We can’t understand it any more than
we can understand the old Biblical threat
that one shall be taken and the other left.
Death doesn’t play any fairer than life,
Dolly.”
She looked up at him quickly. And then
she smiled, faintly, comi-adely, into his
troubled eyes. Her covering hand left the
stained bundle and she squeezed his arm for
a moment.
“Thank you—Billy dear,” she said, softly,
and ran away to the house with her treasure
held close to her breast.
Brett went out and walked in the bush
beyond the paddock; for, as always, the
house where Dolly lived with her mother
seethed with visitors, and he had some new,
crazy, unbelievable matters to think about.
Godfrey had been dead a year, and he was
in France for two before that. He had
always been a selfish devil, and if Dolly—-
supposing Dolly—was it possible that Dolly
had been disillusioned? All men knew
what Godfrey was like —had known for
years. And she had been kind to Brett.
Kinder than he expected, for he had not
taken his dismissal and her marriage grace-
fully. Perhaps he had been too earnest all
his life to take things gracefully. He
tramped the dried gum-leaves now and
thrust through the gidya like a dog
intent on the trail of something. God-
frey was dead. Brett had helped shovel
what could be found of the half-dozen of
them into the muddy water at the bottom
of the -clay hole with minnenwerfers and
bombs reading the burial service over them.
Godfrey was dead, and Dolly was firm-
fleshed and warm-blooded and tingling with
life. Widowhood had not so much faded as
ripened her. She was a glorious, burgeoning
Dolly such as Godfrey had never known;
with the grey sweet eyes full of light and the
scarlet lips—■
Brett’s mind sheered aw T ay from memory
of those lips. They would not be Godfrey's
any more, and for that he could thank
Heaven. But no man dared dream that they
might be for him and keep his senses. Light
was low in the bush, putting queer shapes
to the squat honeysuckles and angular
lancewoods. There was a bottletrce, like
some disgusting giant, on the edge of a red
sunset clearing, and a clump of ti-tree, white
as bridal-wreaths, above his head. Brett
walked round the clearing, trying to track
the new idea home. Was it possible that
he had been mistaken about that look in
Dolly’s eyes? Was it possible that ?
Behind him was a rustle of leaves beneath
a light foot, and a stir made by Dolly
coming fast through the young wattles.
Brett wheeled to see her take the reddish-
gold glow on her face, and that face dumbed
him. She might have been some urgent
Medusa cast in bronze; some Fury stilled
by icy contempt. Brett did not move. But
he was conscious of forces, cataclysms,
loosed about him. She came near, and then
she thrust iuto his hand a small photo-
graph—the size so many men carry in their
wallets.
“You can take this back,” she said, low
and thickly. “I was not deceived.”
Brett stared at it. The coarse, simper-
ing face looking out was just the type he
had seen Godfrey with often enough in Lon-
don. Almost he fancied he remembered the
woman. It was the winter of T 7 when he
and Godfrey had crossed over together. He
turned it about, nervously. The scrawling
hand on the back said : “From Min. to her
own darling boy. With remembrance.” That
was exactly the sort of thing Godfrey’s
London friends would say. He stood still
cursing himself. “Why had he kept Godfrey’s
papers inviolate as those of his other
friends? For he knew Godfrey. The whole
regiment knew Godfrey.
“And did you imagine you could deceive
me with a clumsy trick like this?” said
Dolly, bitterly.
“I?” He looked up, staring. Then he
whitened. Her face was that of a woman
outraged.
“Do you think I don’t know that you put
this there so that I should think him un-
true? Do you think I don’t know that you
—you want me still? Oh, I saw it as you
came on to the verandah —before you even
spoke. A woman knows all that. You
thought that with Godfrey dead you could
make me care for you—if I could think him
dishonored as well. So —you meant to make
sure. You dared plan to sully and dis-
honor and disgrace a dead man who called
you his friend. You dared try to give him
a stab in the back like this, did you? God-
frey was never untrue. 1 have all his let-
ters. He never gave a thought to another
woman. I know it. And you dare”
Her voice broke. Brett stood still. The
first impulse of denial had passed. He had
to look at this thing all round. He could
bring witnesses who would smirch the dead
man’s name beyond recall, but where would
be the use of that? An aching shame,
mingled with a wild resentment—he could
read it in her now. A desolation beyond any
which she had felt or could feel by other
means. His dream was dead and done. That
was the one thing sure. She would never let
him rebuild it on the shards of the dead
man’s shame, even if lie could bring himself
to try.
“I’m sorry,” he muttered vaguely. “I
never thought”
“Never thought! Can you deny that you
put this in his wallet on purpose to make
me believe —what I can't believe?”
The desperate light of her anger had given
back the girlish Dolly he had been used to
quarrel with. But that Dolly had been
generous. She had never demanded the very
soul out of his living body.
“No,” he said slowly, “I can’t deny it.”
“You did put it there?”
“Yes.”
“And he was true? I can remember him
as the- —the hero he was, and not as my hus-
band, false to me?”
“Yes.”
She took a long, sobbing breath and her
face quivered. Then she stood up very
straight, with set lips and a scarlet .spot on
either cheek. And after that she tore the
photograph across and across and flung the
pieces among the brown leaves at his feet.
“There’s your Min come back to her own
darling boy—though I doubt if even she
wouldn’t despise you now. And you need
never dare speak to me again while you live,
for I would not hear you.”
She turned, slowly, almost as though she
expected him to defy her command even
then. But he did not, and she went away
up the track, holding her head high.
It was dark when Brett came back to the
house, and his face looked puffed and un-
naturally white. There had been many emo-
(Continued on next page.)


THROUGH THE
TEDIOUS HOURS
Every Picture
Tells a Story.
La
<A \
V
V-
'
#V'
m
n
;A;
mwm
• v?
Through all the tedious hours of a woman’s day the symptoms
of disease are sometimes present.
And often women think it is their natural lot to suffer in the
way they do—that every woman’s duty is to struggle on —to think
only of her family and her housework—and that her weakness is
the penalty of sex.
This is the great mistake so many women make.
It is not natural, and it is not necessary that women should be
always ailing.
You may be ill and your kidneys the cause, for kidney weakness
soon destroys your health. Harmful waste and poisons which the
kidneys should remove are left in the system to work havoc in the
tissues, nerves and joints, causing languor, dizziness, nervousness,
backache, pain in the loins, gravel, stone, dropsy, drowsiness,
rheumatism and sciatica.
Never neglect weak kidneys. Give them the help they need
at the first sign of trouble. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are solely
for the kidneys, and if taken in time will soothe and heal the
delicate kidney membranes, and enable the kidneys to resume
activity and to rid the body of the poisons which have caused so
much distress.
A Sydney Woman Endorses Doan’s Pills
KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 79 Garden Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:—“For a long time
I suffered from kidney trouble, the worst symptoms being severe pains in my back,
bad headaches, dizzy attacks, disordered secretions, and a dull, tired feeling that I
could not shake off. The pain in my back was often almost unbearable, and every
movement seemed to increase my suffering. As time went on I got worse instead of
better, nothing I took doing me the least good. I was really far from well, and badly
in need of a medicine that would cure me. At last I heard of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, so I got a bottle to try them. They proved to be the very thing I
wanted, for after taking three bottles of these pills I was cured, and I have had
no return of kidney trouble since.”
Eight years later Mrs. Cox says: “My cure has proved a permanent one, for I
have not had a sign of kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
eight years ago. I always keep this remedy in the house, and take them occasionally,
because I think the kidneys need a tonic sometimes.”
All Chemists, 2/9 per bottle; or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
A Sydney Woman Cured by Doan’s
Ointment.
Mrs. A. Moore, 150 George Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says:—“l suffered from
broken varicose veins on my leg, the pain and irritation being very severe. My leg
was almost raw from the knee to the ankle, and I was laid up with it for three
months. During the time I was suffering I was treated at the hospital, doctors
attended me and I used all sorts of ointments, but nothing did me any good. At
last I heard of the wonderful curative powers of Doan’s Ointment, so I sent for a
pot at once. I applied this remedy, carefully following the directions, and in a little
while I noticed a slight improvement, so I continued using it, with the result that six
pots completely cured me. The irritation has gone, and the wounds are quite healed.
I cannot speak too highly of Doan’s Ointment and recommend its use whenever
possible.”
Mrs. Moore confirms her previous statement four years later: —“My cure has
proved a permanent one, a fact that speaks volumes for the merit of Doan's Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per
pot, or posted free by Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
tions to work off, for the thwarted male is
a complex as well as a peculiarly primitive
being. Iu the garden scent blew up from
the orange-trees, just as it had done on the
day Dolly wedded Godfrey. Brett stubbed
his toe against a root and swore wearily,
like one whose founts have run dry. Then
he went into the house, to say good-bye to
Dolly’s mother and thank her for a pleasant
visit. But he never guessed a Dolly lying
on her bed with face pressed to the pillow
and a sobbing, futile sort of prayer going out
to the night.
“Oh, if it only had been Godfrey’s! Oh,
Billy, Billy, Billy, if only you hadn’t done
it!”
G. B. LANCASTER.
Life and Debt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LACEY had not consulted liis trades-
men before he married, and anything
arising out of that contract was his
own concern. Nobody had asked him to
wed, except the lady herself, and she had
dpne so with such infinite tact that he
imagined he had wooed and won, when, as
a matter of fact, he had been wooed and lost.
But that was all Lacey’s affair.
If Mrs. Lacey was extravagant, spend-
thrift, over-ambitious for the helpmate of a
forest ranger, she was not ruining the
butcher and baker. They had not married
her. Lacey had, and was being ruined.
As citizens of Ilillville we became inter-
ested in the domestic tragedy which was
sweeping down on Lacey when we found the
prospect of the ranger meeting his liabilities
becoming remote. We gave him rope for
a time, and Mrs. Lacey proceeded with the
execution in gloves and head-dress a great
deal more expensive and becoming than those
usually worn for the purpose. Saunders,
the storekeeper, called the meeting which had
to come, and we assembled in the little, dark,
cheese-smelling room at the rear of his shop.
There were eight in the party, without count-
ing the flies, and a furtive anger'was in the
air which mixed badly with the mellow
atmosphere.
“Lacey will never be able to pay up,” de-
clared Saunders. “What action are we to
take?”
“It’s all the fault of that hussy of a wife
of his,” said the baker, hotly; but we turned
upon him with such chill and reproachful
glances that he subsided in a moist mass.
“We’re not here to sympathise with him —
we want our money!” cried the saddler, and
there was a murmur of approval. Lacey
might have his private trials, but business
was business. We clung to that. We dis-
cussed the value of his goods and chattels,
we put him in the balance against sheaves
of bills, and we found him wanting.
The postmaster interrupted us. Thrust-
ing his bald head in he said: “I thought
yous might like to know that word has just
come through that Lacey has been trans-
ferred to Dalton, at th’ other end of the
State.” Having paused a second to appreci-
ate the sfensation, he . withdrew, land a
chuckle squeezed through the door as. it
closed.
“The dirty little thief!” ejaculated Saun-
ders, and he spoke for all of us.
“You’ve only got to look at his little blue
eyes, and his bit of a mouth, and his blotchy
face to see there’s no good in him,” was the
opinion of the saddler. That started us on
personalities, and by the time we had talked
ourselves out it was evident that Lacey had
been a blot on the landscape of Hillville
calculated to scare the birds. In 15 minutes
the meeting stood adjourned, and Saunders
was hurrying down Main-street with our
ultimatum seething in his brain and the
eyes of all the town upon him. Among
other things he was to announce that, fail-
ing an immediate settlement, the Depart-
ment would be informed, and he was to
point out that the authorities would be
annoyed. Saunders had promised to be
perfectly frank.
Cockroaches scurried under the boxes when
we entered the room again that night to
hear the report. Of course, by that time,
we all knew that Lacey’s wife had left him
and had gone to the hotel prior to flitting
to the city. But the Law was on our side,
and what Lacey’s wife did
“What’s he say?” asked the saddler.
“Reckons that he never wanted the trans-
fer, promised to pay up if only he got time,
and a lot more guff. He got it straight from
me; told him we’d had enough; told him
straight out, I did !”
Indignant snorts expressed our opinion of
Lacey s pleas for sympathy.
“Said he’d put so much by every week, but
I asked him what the Department would say
if they knew. Asked him straight. That
put the fear into him.”
• talked some more about Lacey, the
air ruled with smoke, and one thing led to
another without our noticing the time. A
knocking at the outer door made us realise
was . °’ c l° c k- Saunders let in
Iliil s boy a white face and two round eyes
under a bushfire of hair. He waved a sheet
of paper.
“Dad dad —says—that Lacey’s sent this
round to his missus, who’s staying at our
place—crikey!” he panted.
Saunders took the note and thrust it into
the light of the lamp. A hush settled down
which must have been comforting to the
cockroaches.
“By the time you get this I will be free,”
he read. “The body will be in the ranges;
forgive me, Jean. —Jo.”
We stared at each other, for it was as
though the table between us had been trans-
formed into a coffin and Lacey lay therein.
“Poor old Jo Lacey!” mourned the
saddler, and the buzz of our assent moaned
like a bees’ dirge.
“That woman—she’s a murderer!” de-
clared the baker, and there were no denials,
but some of us shuffled our feet at the
thoughts which the phrase fathered. Poor
old Lacey, lying cold and chill out in the
ranges, while we sat there discussing him—
detractors of the dead !
“No good sitting here,” came from Saun-
ders feverishly. “We may be able to find
him before it's too late —perhaps he’ll hesi-
tate a bit.” . ,
That fired us to action, and we hurried
out. Drops of rain stung our faces, and a
.wolf-wind ran howling down the street. But
the search was on. In five minutes the first
party was out; in half an hour there was not
an able-bodied man in. the town. The bush
was swept by an eager cordon of men, who
shouted and pushed their way along the
bough-guarded tracks, and who cared nothing
for the fury of the night. To the weirs,
the clearing and every other likely spot
men sped, and the trees swallowed them.
The dawn revealed us to each other, pale
and haggard, but the body of Jo Lacey was
still hidden.
In the three days which followed the out-
look of Hillville changed entirely. The death
of Lacey had paid all his creditors and had
left us, in some subtle fashion, in his debt.
We felt that we owed it to him to find his
body, and we ransacked the hills in the
search. Feeling had run high against his
widow at first. There was some talk of
hunting her out of the town; but she was
charming in her hastily-prepared mourning,
and, after all, poor old Jo had loved her.
We forgave her for his sake. She bore up
wonderfully; even the doctor remarked on
it.
“Lacey would have liked us to do some-
thing for her,” said Saunders, and the move-
ment in favor of combined action for the
dear one left behind grew apace. The third
dawn brought Sunday and the abandonment
of hope. The hills which he knew so well
had taken Jo Lacey into their keeping, and
they would not give him up.
We forgot religious differences that night,
and went to the Methodist Church. Lacey
had announced his conversion when he mar-
ried, and we knew that the parson would say
a few words* He had been diffident at first
about pronouncing a panegyric upon a sui-
cide, but public opinion had swept his
scruples away. The service that night would
be the ranger’s funeral, and so the building
was crowded. Mrs. Lacey, drooping and
soft-eyed, sat in the front pew, and all the
people who had known and loved the man
best were there. Saunders, the saddler and
the baker were just in front of me, and we
were all thinking of the open, freckled face
of Lacey, and his big, soft heart. Never be-
fore had the parson spoken with such silken
speech as when he referred to “our unfortu-
nate fellow-citizen.”
“Mr. Lacey is dead, but he lives on in
our memories: faults he may have had, but,
all in all, he was a man, and we asked
nothing more of him.”
A woman’s scream cut across his words
like a knife, and the congregation turned as
one man.
Standing tousled and filthy in the doorway
was Jo Lacey. He had been in the high
places and the burrs had settled on him;
he had been in the gullies and the leeches
had pierced his skin a hundred times. He
was blood-stained, starving, travel-worn, but
he was alive. He held up a gaunt hand as
though in greeting, and stared about with
wild eyes.
“Not dead —not dead!” said his hoarse,
dull voice. “I couldn’t do it; but I’ll pay
you—pay you all!”
For a second we were hushed in joy and
relief at the return of old Jo Lacey. There
was a smile on every face, and we beamed
on him. Then, like bats against the moon,
vague shadows fell upon us.
“Oh. damn!” wailed Mrs. Lacey, and
fainted.
The saddler nudged Saunders.
“The weak-minded rogue!” he whispered.
“Couldn’t even do himself in decently.”
“We’ll have to make him pay. that’s all,”
said Saunders firmly. “Business is business.”
DALE COLLINS.
Until.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SWEAR not. dear, to love till death
Part us, as the parson saith;
But to be of one true heart
Till the death of love us part.
Swear to part when love shall die,
And grow cold both you and I;
When no more the pulses beat
Faster at the welcome sweet;
When the feverish journey’s end
Finds not lover, but a friend.
Then, unknowing, love shall die,
Leaving but a memory.
By the clinging and the kiss,
By the long and wordless bliss,
By love’s strife and after-calm —
Parting’s pain and meeting’s balm —-
By the thrill and by the throe,
By the bloodleap and the flow,
By our bush tracks and the heath.
And the orchid in its sheath,
By the damp green grasses grown
In the blackened lowlands lone,
By the proofs of love that be,
Thou shalt still remember me.
By the strip of light at dawn
That has given our window proof,
By the flame-trees on the lawn,
By the rain upon the roof,
By the river’s winding stream,
By the field where rest the dead,
By the steel-blue bay agleam,
By the burning roads of red,
By the frangipanni scent,
And brugmansias by the sea,
By the hours our beings blent.
Thou shalt still remember me.
But no after-bitterness
Shall there be to make us sigh.
Nor discounted the caress
By the fact that love must die ;
Love ; that makes the time to pass,
Shall not be less light and gay
Just because, as dies the grass,
iinie makes love to pass awav
Soon or later, but at last.
Though, as yet, we are not free’
But by all our dearest past
Thou shalt still remember me
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


W W » I
«
J3ss
H,»
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —S3-107 Featiierston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office— 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
TAN KS
en wc speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’* Littl
Livar Pills, one of
smallest and most su
ful pill m the world
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
fh
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
™ y ' n 1 r j r hcm to ‘ da y» y° ur chemist has
them, Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Doss— Small Pries.
GENUINE must
bear signature
•on i»u*s-Oman pries.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Tbo Standard Remedy which has outlived the {'untr.-rx*!.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15W6. CURES Write for BooK
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, England
Insist on “Singleton's "- refuse ail substitutes.
-MILK
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,’
and Malt). Keeps 1
for years and never
becomes stale or loses 1
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made]
in a moment, any-/
where. Only water/
£
needed.
In hot climates it
invaluable.
J
After reading, will you please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
c allfngs
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupoh.
Name
Address.
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane. -----
S.B.
KOTOR LQRIIES
|)RLGS % (i
",r .- *S .
A Good Come BacK.
THE greatest satisfaction to any builder
of lorries comes when a user, in his
» natural trade expansion, buys more of
the same make. The Denby builders point
with pride to a rapidly-growing army of such
users. One of the things contributing to this
result is Denby s exacting inspection of
every part entering into its construction.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2|, ff, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
Uese No Tiros
in dealing with disorders of the digestive system. Decision in procuring
the proper remedy and taking it in good time will well repay you. The
probability is that you will be saved no end of trouble as the result of
prompt action. There is no better medicine for disorders of the stomach,
liver and bowels than Beecham’s Pills.
If) Taking
this medicine your confidence in the result will be confirmed by the
fact that Beecham’s Pills have been affording the assistance to
dyspeptic sufferers for many years. Beecham’s Pills are one of the
oldest and best medicines. They are highly recommended by multitudes
of people who are proving their value at the present time. At the first
warning of stomach trouble—lose no time—act promptly—take
BEECUAM'S
puis
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10id (36 pills), 1/1 i (56 pills) & 2/9 (16S pills)*
REMINGTON BMC
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Ride from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4Hb. PRICE £5/10/- net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD.
OOWLIiS & DUNN.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
J. P. •KNIGHT.
F. LASSETTER & 00., LTD.
NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD. «
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD.
J. P. KNIGHT.
NOYES BROTHER:
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufact
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., mewuumv.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
ĥdf
Gifts for
Men
at Craig 8 Aitken’s,
The old established
Sydney Centre for
Shaving: & Smokers’
Requisites.
Silver-plated Shaving
Stand, similar to illus-
tration, complete with
Brush. Prices: 23/6,
33/6, 36/-
Post Free.
Shaving Mug and
Brush, Silver-plated,
11/6, 14/6, 2:2/6.
Post Free.
Illustrated Folder of
Shavers and Smokers’
Requisites Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 35 years.
$
$
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
[dace to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
818 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARItAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rranchps ,in all parts of the vvorUf.
Wire Strainer
dfh
each
Post Free
fhd
(Patented^
10,
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
fhd
The
simplicity, lightness and excellence of tho
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


fhfh
MANGROYfFE'
LEATHER
®£n
Maximum Driving Power
Every power-plant owner wants belting that
will give maximum driving power. Man-
grovite Leather or Rawhide Belting gives
uninterrupted driving energy—eliminating
waste power and ensuring maximum pro-
duction. Prove its merit on your pl-ant.
Maagrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
■Victoria and Tasmania: Wm, Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
Ort * G
N
ĥf
In the Service of Industry-
Where power is transmitted by shafting, it must be able to
withstand all strains. '
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” BRIGHT SHAFTING
3-lin.. 3«n., tin., sin. diameter. _ , „
For prompt attention address inquiries for prices, etc., to Desk A.
The Eagle fSL Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgfoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
ƒh
Dick’s Balata Belting
for True Economy.
trade:
fh
MARK
Sole Agents: Registered
JAMES HARD IE &. COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,"
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
In the matter of Carburetion
THE FAMOUS SCHEBLER
dfh
is one of the pioneers and has never lost its position in the forefront of the march of progress. Nkvne
any other present-day vaporising device, if you can, that can boast a similar claim. .
A strong feature of becoming SCHEBLER-equipped is that there is a designed to suit
every type of engine— slow speed, high speed, stationary, moving, aero, land or marine. Ihe design
submitted for your information in this issue is the
FORD A
which is a non-moving part carburetter especially designed for the FORD. , . j
This Carburetter is a decided advance in the science of Carburetion, as several new features and
principles of Carburetion are incorporated in this instrument. . -in
On the score of economy, too, this Carburetter is a revelation, satisfied customers getting up to
miles per gallon on suburban roads. , , .
Besides lessening mileage costs your Ford will pull better and idle much slower when fatted with this
type of vaporiser.
Price £5 complete.
Full information gladly sent anywhere on request.
w
304 Pitt Street,
House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies,
THE
SHearing
Machines.
P'T
_
r© stilts#
The Wolseley Company holds the world’s
record for number of machines sold and
sheep shorn annually. Such splendid I
popularity and efficiency should certainly prompt you to get details of Wolseley
machines. ' Inquire through the nearest branch.
DAEGETY AND CO., LTD., AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS: ALL BRANCHES.
is* 1
To tbe Man in the Timber Country
THE BEAVER
Portable Gasoline Drag Saw
is indispensable, and means a big labor-saving proposition. One
man can operate and move it from cut to cut on the log, while
two men can pick it up and carry it on to another log. Equipped
with a 4-horsepower 4-cycle engine, it has been designed not only
for sawing logs, but has universal uses on the farm and elsewhere.
Write for full descriptive catalogue and price to Sole Agents—
fh
ENGINEERS and
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WHEN CONSIDERING ORE
WRITE US FOR FLOW SHEETS AND ESTIMATES OF COST. WE DESIGN AND ERECT PLANTS UNDER CONTRACT. *
We can supply—
Crushing Plant of all kinds.
Screens and Screen-cloth.
Classifiers, Jigs, Tables,
Thickeners, Rock Drills, Tools,
Accessories and all Explosives,
including RENDROCK.
wmm
-
Australasian Agents for
Dorr Machinery (Thickeners, etc.)
Climax Rock Drills (Hydromax),
May Bros/ Jigs, Crushers, etc.
Manufacturers of the
“CURVILINEAR” TABLE.
fh
iING & METALLURGICAL
ENGINEERS,
10-12 George Street, Camperdown, SYDNEY.
