

7
as
The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. G-. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
!!ll!llll!ll!!!!!lii!!lll!llllli!!l!l!!lll!!l
111
lllllllllllllui
N-S-W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
■ Z4> St*.,74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSES SION
~ frj/tc//es<jt 2IS-I7Swanston Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
29 King St.,Newcastle. IQZfCastlereaqh 5t.,& 159 George St.,West, Sydney.
CA PI TAX 51 200.000
Joseph W.H/11,
General Manager.
•••until
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW’’ says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Improved BIG GHIEF
Oil Engines.
£
m
Head and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
V/ h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS,
R. L. Scrutton £ Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
W y
9
Oft
ppLE
6
ro Argue
About!
v
o
6 &h c
I'Uiiiiir * At»p> the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors us being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
L
*
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
*
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
I
m
MOTOR
...CARS
«
|
i
i
H
Maßes old roofs as good as new —
protects new roofs from rusting and
all metal surfaces from deteriorating'.
Can be applied easily and looks well.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
D
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
The Old Gaelic Whisky
‘A.W” “T.Y.R”
‘A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Gilbert Lodge 8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
596 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking: Agents:
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Worands Bldgs., Grenfell street, Adelaide.
CHAB. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Etd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD., Manchester, England.
opAiiom
TOOTH PASTE
Used Ivory Day
Prevents Decay.
OPAZiOZD
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2108.
Thursday, July 8, 1920.
Price 9d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 42S
George Street, Svdney. Tele. 6481. —Advt.
DRY CIN
Bottled 12 DEGREES
STRONGER than the mini-
mum permitted by the Spirits
Act. Government Guaranteed
ALU HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
li?
Ijf?
■UOCO--*''** 1 * t
I
%
dfgdfd
Freedom
The vigorous exercises of outdoor folk are
a good test of underwear values.
Woven to shape, Jason underwear fits closely—-and
the clinging softness of the exclusive Jason finish is
very cosy in chilly weather : but the garments give
with every movement, affording absolute satisfaction
all the time of wear.
Jason elasticity outlasts the wash.
Ask to see Jason undergarments at your stores:
cold and warm weather weights in all sizes and styles*
AU.-WOOU UMSMRIAIUW*
UNDERWEAR
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
New “Olympic" Brand. Owing to the high prices of the
yarns from ■which Jason all-wool goods are made, the
manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines
containing a percentage of cotton —bearing otherwise the
same guarantee of quality as the regular lines. Tour
O'® dealer will supply you.
\
a
ts
> ,
i, ■r-'i
This Week’s Toilet Hints
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY * RECIPES COLLECTED
FROM VARIOUS EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “BLACKHEAD” SECRET.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads,
oily skin, and enlarged pores..
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol is dropped in a tumbler of hot
water, which -will then of course “fizz”
briskly. When the effeiwescence has subsided
the face is bathed with the stymol-charged
water and then dried with a towel. The
offending blackheads, of their own accord,
come right off on the towel, the large oily
pores immediately contract and efface
themselves naturally. There is no squeezing,
forcing or any drastic action. The skin is
left uninjured, smooth, soft and cool. A few
such treatments should .be taken at inter-
vals of three or four days thereafter in
order to ensure the permanence of the pleas-
ing result so quickly obtained. Stymol tablets
are' obtainable from your chemist in
original packages.
GREY HAIR—HOME REMEDY,
An old-fashioned home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But.
on the other hand, there is no reason why
you should have grey hair if you do not
want it. To turn the hair back to a natural
color is really a very simple matter. One
has only to get from the chemist two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair
with a small sponge for a few nights and
the greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula,
TO KILL ROOTS OP SUPERFLUOUS
HAIR.
“Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair Avish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the’ hair-roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to instantly remove the hair,
but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient,
THE REAL CAUSE OF MOST BAD
COMPLEXIONS.
“Health and Beauty.”
It is an accepted fact that no truly
beautiful complexion ever came out of jars
and bottles, and the longer one uses cos-
metics the worse the complexion becomes.
Skin, to be healthy, must breathe. It also
must expel, through the pores, its share of
the body’s effete material!. Creams and
powders clog the pores, interfering both
with elimination and breathing. If more
women understood this there would be fewer
self-ruined complexions. If they would use
.ordinary mercolised wax instead of cos-
metics they would have natural, healthy
complexions.
ABOUT HAIR TONICS.
“Novel flecipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some
wonderful discovery for improving the hair,
and although this paragraph may seem a
little superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe
may come as a welcome change. One thing
about it is that it will grow hail’, and also
prevent it falling out. From your chemist
get an original package of boranium, to this
add j-pint of bay rum, allow it to stand
30 minutes, then add sufficient water to
make half-a-pint. Rub briskly into the
scalp with the finger-tips, and you will im-
mediately experience that clean tingling
sensation which- is a sure sign of healthy
action. [I
NS
EOHENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption.
Coughs,
Hu
ON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet :
“Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE' “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
The Red Page
Judging Tennyson by Points
All judgments in literature are liable to
go astray through lack of perspective. The
man is too close to his own age to be
properly seen ; he follows tricks and fashions
of thought peculiar to his time, or else
ignores them. In either case it is hard to
get him in his relative importance to other
men. Shelley was a devout reader .of
Southey, whose “Thalaba” he regarded as
a great work. Has anybody • heard of
“Thalaba” lately? Byron lavished praises
on Crabbe; the whole 18tli century thought
Pope a literary giant. To-day Pope is
little more than a literary curiosity, and
Crabbe is a dreary person to learn about in
school or university class-work, but n,ot to
read. On the other hand, the supremacy of
Shakspeare and Milton was not fully
acknowledged until Coleridge told the early
19th century what they were. The mighty
dead in English literature are very numer-
ous. They include Gower, Dryden, John-
son (except for his dictionary), Southey and
Rogers. All. these were mighty names while
the owners lived, but they look small enough
in the light of what modern readers of Eng-
lish know of their works. Southey has a
few ballads in the junior-grade school-books,
Dryden is occasionally quoted from “Alexan-
der’s Feast” ; but while Keats and Shelley
have soared to front rank, and Chaucer, the
“Morning Star,” shines on, the dust is thick
and heavy upon all four of them.
The most puzzling of all to place is Alfred
Tennyson. .The fashion of 40 years ago was
to place him very high; the fashion of 20
years ago was to set him among the lowest.
Yet leaving out a-mass of rather cheap and
commonplace work which he perpetrated to
loud contemporary applause, there are some
things besides which should weight the scales
heavily in his favor. He is (1) among the
very best of our lyrical singers; he is (2)
the writer of the second epic in the
language, for whatever the faults of the
“Idylls of the King,” it is the only poem
which can possibly be seen in the glare of
light that shines from “Paradise Lost”;
he is (3) the only philosophic poet who
directly set to music the mental, religious
and scientific unrest of his day ; he is (4)
easily the best writer of narrative verse
since Chaucer; he is (5) just about the best
writer of the modern ballad as exemplified
by such work as “The Revenge” and
“The Defence of Lucknow”; he is (6)
one of the very best verse craftsmen we
have, and one who had about as fine
a sense of word-melody as even the very
greatest; he is (7) about the best of the
rather poor crowd of dramatists who wrote
plays in verse between the days of James
I. and the last decade of Queen Victoria;
and he is (8) always interesting even when
his verse seems thinnest and most common-
place. Now set on the other side the flimsy
gallery appeals of “The May Queen,” “The
Charge of the Light Brigade,” “In the Child-
ren’s Hospital” and a couple of dozen others ;
and is it fair to say that the balance moves
seriously against him? Consider some of
the wooden passages in Shakspeare, look at
the worst of “Paradise Regained” and “Sam-
son Agonistes,” remember that Coleridge
wrote “The Four Graves,” cast a sorrowful
eye over three-fourths of the entire work of
Wordsworth and then try to be a little just
to Tennyson.
The truth is that he does not fall more
seriously from his grander levels than the
others whose names can be matched against
his own, but that we fail to get his proper
measure because his worst work often won
the loudest applause. To put it another
way, he had a damnable and damning trick
of popularity; and that was a sin which
his critics have never been able to forgive.
But, as one writer says, “we .all come back
to him.”'" The man who wrote “Gsnone,”
“Guinevere,”. “The Lotus Eaters,” “The
Vision of Sin” and tlje lyrics of “Maud”
and the “Princess” was surely a very great
poet. Poe, writing of him early, said: “The
noblest poet that ever lived.” Swinburne,
writing of him late, set him first in the nine-
teenth century. These men should have
known something about it; but there is
always that matter of perspective. Mathe-
matically, by awarding prize-marks where
they seem due, it looks possible to prove
Alfred Tennyson about the greatest all-
round poet.in the language; but then Milton
begins to sing and Keats joins him, and over
all I hear the tense human note of Shaks-
peare—and I wonder.
D. M. W.
A Literary Phenomenon in U.S.A
A literary phenomenon in the States
to-day is the complete indifference of the
great reading public toward the war-story,
the lighter romance and the reconstruction-
essay ; and the ever-increasing interest in
the serious novel dealing with the moral
problems of the day, and in all books deal-
ing with ~ the life beyond. The soldier-
author is "dead ; absolutely dead. He has
had his day, and a good daj, too. Volumes
'dealing with the rebuilding, of nations lie
piled up in cobwe.bbed obscurity on the
booksellers’ shelves. “Holiday novels” of
the Nat Gould or Charles Gar vice type are,
with few exceptions, in little demand. On
the; other hand, the adventures in spiritual-
ism of Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir Conan Doyle
and Maurice Maeterlinck and Blasco-
Ibanez’s, H. G. Wells’s and John Gal-
worthy’s vitriolic attacks on immorality,
education, religion and alcohol cannot be
turned off the printers’ presses fast enough.
Sir Oliver Lodge’s “Raymond”—based on
the story of that son who was killed in
battle, in connection with whom a stance-
message told of an unknown photo, described
as “neither indoors nor outdoors,” which
later coming to light showed Raymond in
a group of British officers seated in the
shadow of a wall—is having an amazing
circulation. A few years ago we loved Conan
Doyle as the spinner of fascinating
yarns about Sherlock Holmes; to-day
the detective tale's are thrown aside in favor
of “The Vital Message” and “The New
Revelation.” Maurice Maeterlinck’s “Blue-
bird;” both in the play and in the storv-form.
is up amongst the best sellers. Why?
•Simply bcause the public wants mysticism,
and the Belgian poet happened to introduce
the memorable dialogue: “Where are the
dead?” “There are no dead.”
Undoubtedly the present lecture-tour of
the eminent English scientist Oliver Lodge
—he cannot get halls big enough—is partly
responsible for the new taste; and the
march of education has caused men to think
deeper and deeper, and to grope more and
more with living hands for the solution of
“the life beyond” ; but as a soldier and tra-
veller I cannot help but think that this
psychic wave is a direct result of the suffer-
ings and loneliness born of the tragic sepa-
rations of the war. In the realm of the
novel the' change in public taste is just as
marked. Serious novelists, known only to
the discriminating few a short while back,
are booming to the skies to-day. Again
why? Is it that their work has improved?
No; but because the reading public is
daily growing more serious. The Spanish
author Vincente Blasco Ibanez, practically
unknown over here a year ago, is dominat-
ing the field of fiction. Take his “The Four
Horsemen of the Apocalypse.” It appeared
'when the reaction against war literature
was at its strongest; it was rumored that
it was written practically at the dictation
of the French Government; the theme was
one that hitherto had failed' to attract
American readers; the advertising announce-
ments were humble; it was reported that
its author thought so little of its chances of
success that he' had sold the American rights
for 50 pounds. By all - the rules of the
literary game it was foredoomed to
failure; but it actually created a furore
of enthusiasm such as had no paral-
lel in the American novel-world. To-
day it is in its 200th edition, and it still
heads the library lists. The same
latest book, “Women Triumphant” (just
out), is in tremendous demand, while his
other recent story, “Mare Nostrum,” is
already in its 50th edition. Other books
from the same pen—“ The Shadow of the
Cathedral,” “Blood and Sand,” “La
Bodega,” “The Cabin,” “Sonnica” and “The
Dead Command”—are all meeting with a
flattering reception. I have heard authorita-
tively that the total sales of all these books
pass the two-million mark; and Ibanez was
unknown in the States a little over a year
ago. Indubitably his success lies in his
marvellous power of observing the evils
which, threaten society, and of embodying
them in a love-story of absorbing interest —
the whole painted on a canvas as rich in
detail and color as the stained-glass window
of a mediaeval cathedral. Optimistic, fair
and absolutely fearless, he has been in pri-
son several times for holding the mirror up
to his own Government. He does not hesi-
tate to attack existing evils. This is what
readers of to-day want; but they want
it as Ibanez gives it to them —sugar-coated
with a love plot; and not in the style of
the pamphlet or essay of the professional
reformer.
VIKGINIA.
TOM SKEYHILL.
Non-existent Subtleties
It was a letter from my mother that
started this. For a really baseless reason
she had sent some verse of mine to a friend
of hers, an old priest in the monastery on
Mount Carmel. Into my lines of Carmel’s
olivps, Anzacs and what-not, the good man
read such a wealth of subtle shades of mean-
ing that I had to read the stuff again to con-
firm my private opinion of it.
A lot of critics used to do that. They did
not withhold credit where it was due; on
the contrary, they poured it out in buckets-
ful where it couldn’t be due. If a man
finds the inevitable word —the word which
is so inspired in its correctness that he has
to tear off and read the phrase to someone
bored stiff and watch for the answering-
smile —it’s all right to pat him on the back
for it. But he only does it about once a
year, if that. And only about tydce in his
life does anyone (barring the helpless bored
stiff) see it and pat him for it. Carmel’s
olives are grey because olives are grey—not
because they are a few thousand years old or
because Christ toiled past them with despair
beckoning to Him from the shadows. I am
sorry—l like the padre’s view of it—but
that is the truth of the matter.
I think the word loaded by intent is rare
in literature; certainly it is in the literature
which' is not modern. There are prophetic
words in all literature from Isaiah down-
wards, of course, words which carry an enor-
mous concentration of meaning; but they
are as a rule very far from the intentional
double barrel. In technique, the best effects
.seem always to be got by the simplicity
which allows one word to follow another,
and not by the self-conscious cleverness
which lifts a single one to an undue relative
distinction. Wilde was good at the apt
artificial word, but Keats wasn’t and Shel-
ley wasn’t. Shakspeare has hardly one in-
tentionally “significant” word in the won-
derful rich phrasing. The men who matter
are always better at sentences and groups
than they are at sacrificing a good passage
on the altar of a brilliant word. Anyway,
the proper place for the luminous, trenchant
word is wit, not literature.
Wells has an occasional happy use of the
sudden good word, but in a manner quite
different from the Wilde and Flaubert abuse
of their vocabularies. In “The New Mach-
iavelli” there is a passage descriptive of
the married statesman-hero’s meeting with
his fate, the daughter of a political friend.
The context before and after is in the minor
—unimportant relation, enumeration of
guests or some such secondary thing; and
the phrase is “ the shadows of the
leaves crossing and re-crossing her dear
face.” The word “dear” is splendid. Out
of the restrained, business-like formality of
the preceding sentences it lifts in one syl-
lable the future central figure into a warm,
significant isolation. No reader could ask
for greater swiftness and certainty of ex-
pression.
Bennett uses the loaded word a lot in
his “Five Towns” work, but Bennett writes
plays, and the modern dramatist has to
touch it up a bit. On the other hand Gals-
(Continued on page 28.)


a
>".V
Anthony Horderns
ofix Mens
DEPENDABILITY is the measure of value
—in a store as in a man. How worth-while
it is to know that whenever you purchase
any article that belongs to your outfit, you
can always rest secure in the knowledge
that the money you expend has done its
full duty, and that the garment you have
bought will yield the utmost worth of your
expenditure in quality and service. That
assurance belongs to the man who shops at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
PALACE OVERCOATS.
THE ALTCAR, Double-breasted, Convertible
Collar, Patch Pockets with Flaps, Half-belt
at Back, suitable garment for city or country
wear—
DARK GREY, ALL-WOOL TWEEDS—
Unlined:
126/-, 147/-, 168/-
DARK GREY IRISH TWEED—Lined, Black
and White Checks:
£lO/10/-
THE RAGLAN, Comfortable, Slip-on Shoulders,
Generous Skirts, Path Vent, Patch or Through
Opening Pockets, Plain or Strapped Cuffs—
FANCY TWEEDS, neat designs in Grey
Effect *
70/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-
IRISH TWEEDS, in Black and White Effects:
155/-, 168/-, 210/-
FAWN COTTON GABARDINE, Lined Check
58/6, 63/-, 75/-
FAWN WOOL GABARDINE, Lined Check:
105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
A large and varied selection of Boys’ and Youths’
Raincoats and Overcoats awaits your inspection.
GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET,
MAIL-ORDER SERVICE
at the House of Economy
is always completely satisfactory. We
pay carriage to any address in N.S.W.
and on interstate orders to the nearest
port.
VB:
m
%
'X
m
m
m
&Z*
•s'.-V-
-; <s
m,
I
m?&
m
tm
M
‘■sy.
m
m
u
E
§P
i
I ;
V. •:■
2J>
m
f®.£fßK
5 VV»jT<«^!<w^*w»TO£rsrisr»!w««o*^r»- 1
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
The House of Economy BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


a
i
■i
meggitt s
CALF FOOD
na^:
&
*
O-U
Si
A
§
0
0
\
/aeggitt u°
PARRAMATTA
\
r.\T
ti
ii : kid a in
uxW
Linseed Oil users have now the opportunity of choosing between Imported and Australian-made Linseed Oil.
Then why use imported?
Meggitt Limited's Linseed Oil, manufactured at Parramatta, Australia, has been matured with special regard for local conditions.
It is guaranteed uniform in quality and sets hard.
True economy demands the best.
Insist on Meggitt Limited’s Australian-made Linseed Oil. Booklet No. 2 mailed free.
Harrisons Ramsav Ptv., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen
Ag e nts B ri S toSrMe S S w” Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd.. Rundle Street.
Adelaide; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
e
HEAD OFFICE fICKING ST SYDNEY (\^>rks-.Paxrcimatii\)
PNSEEDOIIM^
ttEGGITT U
boy on the bay
guarantees quality
MEGGITTS
UNSEEOOUMt^
[MI
rAEGGITT U.
on the bag*
guarantees quality


fUM
For Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular
intervals from sick headache. The
trouble is caused by accumlation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act so
gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency
to sick headache. They have no
unpleasant effect to make them
objectionable to the extra-sensitive
sick headache patient. Old fash-
ioned harsh purgatives will not do
at all in such cases.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin/
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE, HOME;
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
3716
PiiN
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores in Aus-
tralia, and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney,
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend item. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
CELEBRATED
23
%
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young-—hard nr soft and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few clays, and the
sufferer is. free from pain. It is a certain
cure it kills them. It is a painless
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedv cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handv cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street
Perth, W.A. r j
Tl
m
SYDNEY’S Most
Delightful Bag
A really handsome creation in silk, heavily brocaded
with silver. Its nickel frame gives a nice finish, and
inside it is lined with silk and has a gathered
pocket. Delightful for day or evening wear.
PRICE 32/6.
Mention X3B when ordering.
Post Free throughout Australia from the
EXPERT MAIL ORDER GO.
BOX 2575 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Also obtainable from the
AMERICAN BAG STORES, LTD.,
Corner Pitt and King Streets; Strand Arcade;
Pitt Street; Sydney Arcade; George Street;
SYDNEY.
Wc are preparing a handsome illustrated catalogue
of our goods. If you desire one free of charge please
send us your name and address.
<\AERS//
o
s
EAS
C
K
t
All
Chemists
'
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
C.ll Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
TRAVEL
IN COMFORT
The only proved Remedy for
SEA and TRAIN SICKNESS
is
MOTHERSILL’S
SEASICK REMEDY.
GUARANTEED TO PREVENT AND CURE
OR MONEY REFUNDED.
Perfect music
in every home.
“Music hath charms”—it soothes
the tired mind and ensures com-
plete relaxation from daily care;
it cheers and entertains—has a
delightful influence in the home.
THE EDISON
AMBEROLA
brings every class of music to
your fireside—singing, whistling,
grand opera, Jazz, ragtime bands
and orchestras: —you can have the
most wonderful variation at the
moment’s whim—it is just as magical as though some genii was
imprisoned in this marvellous machine.
The Edison Amberola is quite an inexpensive instrument—hear it
play at the nearest Edison dealer’s, or write for Illustrated Literature.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
\
the pipe that IS “broken in.”
A GBD smokes well right from
the start. So thoroughly is its
selected French briarwood sea-
soned that it gives a cool, sweet
smoke from the first draw. Look
for the trade-mark GBD on the
stem.
British made. Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
SBC
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Signposts.
When I was..seven they said to me:
“You were so dear, .so dear at three!”
* * * *
There was one hour I could not play
For wishing there might be a way
To win back to the sweet, lost heaven
Of three years old, when I was seven!
I was fifteen before they said:
“Your hair was gold upon your head ;
You were so soft and warm and bright,
To see you was a day’s delight
When you were seven.” And I would fain
Have found that childish realm again!
It may be there awaits a day
That they will come to me and say:
“When in your twenties all aglow
You smiled on us we loved you so!”
But it will be too late, too late,
For I shall then be thirty-eight!
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
Dawn in Drought.
A pulsing band of grey above the hills,
And the black curtains of the low night
blown
In long, dark, billowing clouds and twisted
frills,
In velvet silence or with frightened thrills
Of sobbing winds that cry and run alone;
There is a splendor and a strangeness
grown
Surely behind those purple eastern hills,
A stirring, waking of the great unknown.
The bitter day paints scorching white the sky.
The sea creeps wrinkled blue with- lazy
moan.
Day in, day out, the land lies dead and dry,
A skeleton with sun on ev’ry bone.
QUEENSLAND.
L. PATRICIA FRANCIS.
Beauty-Blind.
Strange thought of pity and of awe to find
Here in this vivid, vital garden place,
Where sun lights life, and bees bring love’s
embrace,
And every flower has senses of a kind,
That yet not one the garden has divined —
In spite of every loveliness, and grace,
In spite of every pansy’s eager face,
That all these bright and starry eyes are
blind!
And while with tears or mirth we grope
and blunder.
Fettered and muffled in mortality,
Bare-hearted to the sunshine and the
thunder.
Wind-thrilled, or kissed by some stray
golden bee
Half-guessed thgn lost again, may we not
wonder
What glory laps us that we do not see?
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
Night Terror.
The sun departs, the stars renew
The awful splendor of their eyes,
And thinking of our rendezvous
I watch the daylight as it dies.
There shines upon the moon’s dead cheek
A hideous hatred, icy white,
That chills and chars; and with a shriek
I shut my eyelids on the night.
With one hand on the latch I wait,
Fearing the terrible pursuit,
Then slipping through the silent gate
I feast in fever on the fruit.
But even as I hold you there
With clamoring lips that beg and burn,
Both trembling at the theft we share,
I tremble at the dread return.
For in the end I fall and kneel
Before a ray of milky light,
And as I kneel I slowly feel
The torture of the eyes of night.
I feel the hate that chills and chars;
I shudder as I gaze, and soon
Your eyes become revengeful stars,
Your face the dead exultant moon.
N.S.W.
LEON GELLERT.
Bondi Beach-Gold.
A fairy park of color-guns
Shatters the clouds of gray,
And. blazing like a hundred suns,
The fire of golden day
Burns down upon the sand for us,
Turning the creamy §trand for us
To opalescent land for us
Who love the golden day.
The sun’s wide parasol of blue
Rifts into roselit crannies where
A million tinted strings come through
And fill the golden air.
They lift and fall and sway for us,
And magic measures play for us,
Till, chiming clear, the spray for us
Rings out a golden air.
Below each string a bubble floats,
A crystal bright and frail;
Voyaging through the tide of motes
It lifts a golden sail.
This is the flashing sign for us
That life is fair and fine for us.
And joy will always shine for us
Who fly the golden sail.
A dropping bubble lightly breaks
To splash the sand with pearl.
And in the jewelled pool it makes
There stands a golden girl:
She bows before the sun for us.
The day-fires vestal nun for us.
This surf-girl posed in fun for us,
This emblem golder
MAORILAND.
O. N. GILLESPIE.


>v
t
s;
<?T
e
ft
□
'm
Va
r*
t
Jgr
0*
c?
m
%
m
3
£
3k
/%»u.
*JZ/
/
c
Wt
QE
Vs»»
iMi
g
v \'
m
i“jj
UP
>\
i
p:
\W»
?^SJ6
'WL
w. B. Chaffey waves a magic
hand over the smiling orchards
of Mildura.
Four years ago Mildura was undiscovered. To-day it is widely known as the land of grapes
—where the dried fruits come from—a land of promise, of prosperity and of great riches.
Years ago the American pioneers; the Chaffey brothers, conceived big things. Results have
proved that their ideas on irrigation were right. But their initial difficulties were enormous.
While others gave the bitter game up in despair, W. B. Chaff ey fought through to
the present remarkable success. Sunraysed Settlements, of which Mildura is the chief,
now supply Australia with the whole of its dried fruits —with the finest currants,
raisins, sultanas, muscatels and the now famous sweet the Little Normey. These
astonishing inland Australian settlements produce £1,250,000 worth of fruits. Double
that quantity is demanded, which shows that the Australian housewife is beginning
to realise the use and value of dried fruits. To-day they are great settlements. Five
years hence they will be wonderful, for they will export as much as they now grow,
and their products will become as well known abroad as they are popular in Australia.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2109.
THURSDAY, JULY 8, 1920.
Pbice 9d.
THE OPPORTUNIST.
RED BAGGER: “Now’s yer charnce, comrade—put the boot in!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Jlacleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
• expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible lor the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are tho.se
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.);
E. T.. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C. ; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
hh Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))1 Hastings Street.
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works 'and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 21th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, J t 2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago ; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News-Stand, Los Angeles, Cal,, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. — John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
FIJI. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the. Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lkd. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., ltd.; Bioz. to 10oz..
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., lkd., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 8, 1920.
UNIFICATION’S ONLY HOPE.
Fkom time to time the exasperation of indi-
vidual country districts at the strangling
tactics of the great cities finds expression
in movements to secede. The oppressed ter-
ritories never co-operate. They merely
emit lonesome howls at odd moments as the
spirit of wrong moves them; and the cities
take no more notice than the villain of melo-
drama does of the lamentations of his out-
cast wife. The city interests are indifferent
because the would-be secessionists, like the
wronged stage-ladies, are more or less im-
potent. Areas such as the northern part of
N. S. Wales, the home of a recent vigorous
separation movement, may enjoy the luxury
of unlimited complaint and vituperation; but
under existing conditions the thing has to
stop there. They are parties to what is, in
law, an “indissoluble federation,” as was
not the case when (say) Victoria formed
itself out of the body of New South Wales.
There can be no lawful secession now with-
out, amongst other things, the approval (1)
of a majority of the electors of the State
concerned voting by referendum, and (2) of
the State Legislature. As it is never the
stone-broke district with the unproductive
railway and the extensive drought-area
which wishes to secede, but always the pros-
perous locality with more to give the city
than it can ever take from it. the unlikeli-
ness of change is evident. So long, that is,
as the technically unbreakable Federation
remains intact.
* * * *
Everyone, whether his habit of mind hap-
pens to be radical or conservative, agrees
that the Federal Constitution needs some
sort of alteration. It was formed for the
requirements of an age which is as dead
and gone, for all practical purposes, as the
Augustan era. Twenty years ago the States
hated one another with an almost Prussian
lack of humor. State patriotism was the
fashion, and national sentiment hardly
existed. A few interested politicians and
placemen still try to keep the fire of ancient
rivalry going; but except in the domain of
sport it is irretrievably out. To the pre-
sent generation the catch-cries of State Right
grandparents are sheer lunacy; and during
the war the vehemence of Australia’s nation-
alism startled even England, which has never
been wanting in the quality, or virtue, or
whatever it is. Yet the Constitution takes
no heed ofvthe change. On a point of dig-
nity each State has to have its specially-
imported Governor, who, at great cost to
the taxpayers, carries out a completely
useless set of duties. Two legislative
bodies per State—modelled on an institution
which in Britain legislates for 60,000,000
people and administers an Empire-t-provide
Australia with armies of officials, deadheads
and petty boodlers. They cost an incalcu-
lable amount of money, and, like the Gover-
nors, they stand chiefly for State dignity.
The Commonwealth possesses an army, but
in the event of invasion the troops couldn’t
be moved over the railways. W. M. Hughes
expressly omitted to ask for control of the
State railways in framing his last list of
Constitutional referendum questions. This
, though he was asking for full Federal trade
and commerce powers, and though the rail-
ways carry most of Australia’s trade and
commerce! It was his way of recognising
that the railways must be the perquisite of
the State politician, however much the Com-
monwealth at large is prejudiced by the
arrangement. If Australia is threatened by
an epidemic, such as the one which ravaged
it in 1918-1919. the National and the State
Governments will again be in conflict. Yet
disease is at least as fluid as correspondence:
and the effective handling of a menace
directed at the people’s health is even more
urgent than the effective, handling of their
letters.
* # * *
Australia is in the hands of its politicians,
Federal and State, to a greater degree than
the average citizen suspects ; and it is likely
to remain so while the party system endures.
Under the two-party arrangement there is
little room for a non-party press. When
the controversial guns begin to shoot in
earnest the papers all line up, on one side
or another, and voice the truths, half-truths
and straight-out lies of the opposing factions.
That is one reason why an affirmative vote
on a referendum is so extremely rare.
Deafened and bewildered by the tumult of
the political captains and their journalistic
off-siders, the electors decide to take no
chances. They leave ill alone, on the prin-
ciple that the prophets of woe may possibly
be right. Nothing is surer than that so long
as the electors are content with the present
situation, and men remain vain-glorious,
there will be an endless struggle in Australia
between ambitious Federal politicians seek-
ing new powers, and indignant State
politicians clinging to their old ones. This
eternal dispute is peculiarly personal to the
politicians, as distinct from the people. To
the man in the country who never eats a
meal at a State Government House and who
rarely sees a Governor, the perpetuation of
an office which lost its last shred of mean-
ing early in 1914 (when the Colonial Sec-
retary laid down in a historical despatch to
the Governor of Tasmania that “Governors
must unquestioningly accept the advice of
their Ministers”) is not half so important
as the size of his State income-tax. But
to the M.L.A., and even more to the State
Minister, the Governor is the coping-stone
of the elaborate superstructure on which
fame and living depend. Any change which
may undermine that edifice must be fiercely
fought. The Federal politician of the W. M.
Hughes stamp is not so much concerned to
remove anomalies in the interests of the
people who have to find the money for them
as he is to justify his own public career.
Hughes wants power, and the more of it
the better; but he wants it because he is
that sort of man, and irrespective largely
of the real needs of the country. The way
has been open, accordingly, in the past for
a series of bargains between the wire-
pullers of the Federal and State executives ;
and between these two sections the outlook
of the mere citizen has been black indeed.
* * * *
A Convention is to be summoned within
the next few months to consider the question
of modernising our present out-of-date Con-
stitution. It may bring about a tinkering
with the instrument, or it may cause it to
be entirely recast. Its efforts may result
in the States being left with their existing
boundaries and their existing redundancies in
the form of costly office-men ; or it may be
the means of splitting the existing States
into a number of States, each of which will
attend to its own purely local business, while
the National Parliament looks after national
affairs. Whether nothing in particular or
something of a drastic nature is done, will
depend largely on the proportion of average
professional politicians to average laymen-
citizens in the Convention. If politicians,
Federal and State, dominate the proceedings
there is bound to be compromise in the per-
sonal interests of both. Smith, M.H.R.,
will agree as to the infamy of decentralisa-
tion by the breaking up of traditionally in-
dissoluble States • and in return Brown,
M.L.A., will advocate the handing over to
the Federation of Trade and Commerce
powers, unaccompanied by State railway con-
trol ; or the right to legislate in respect of
intra-State monopolies, but not in respect
of any other sort of State business. A ques-
tion of importance is as to how the common
or garden elector may shield himself against
that sort of thing. It may be difficult; but
the most hopeful course will be that of insist-
ing that at least half of the Convention dele-
gates shall be outside the sphere of party
influence. And it is very necessary, of
course, that the non-politicals should be men
of ability, with a knowledge of their case.
Those who find the present state of things
satisfactory enough—the city interests, for
example, and their representatives in all the
Parliaments of the Commonwealth—are
already claiming that no considerable measure
of constitutional change is practicable. Thus
it has been held that the Initiative referendum
and Recall could not be validated even by the
verdict of a majority of the electors
Voting in a majority of the States
and by a majority of all the electors
voting. For the purposes of academic dis-
cussion there may be something in it. To
get down to practical politics, however, it
is undeniable that the Imperial Parliament
would ratify any constitutional change which
was declared for by a clear call from the
Australian people. All that the Unification-
ists, the New Staters and the Decentralisa-
tionists have to do, therefore, assuming
they possess the necessary majority, is to
express themselves. But if they imagine that
they will be allowed to do it without a strenu-
ous fight, both in and out of the proposed
Convention, then their cause will be set back
for another 10 or pei’haps 20 years.
THE SHORT DESERT AND THE
LONG ONE.
Darwin, or some place in its vicinity,
should be a rising State capital, for there
is a harbor alongside which has few equals
in Australia. It is the natural first port
of arrival and last port of departure for all
the big sea-ships that trade with China,
India, the Dutch islands, the Suez Canal and
everything beyond the Canal. It, or some
place within short range of it, is the inevit-
able port of arrival and departure for all
the foreign airship trade, unless airships so
develop that they cease hugging the land
and take the big oceans for preference. It
has more good, well-watered country behind
it than any existing State capital, except
perhaps Brisbane. Yet it is in the throes of
closing up. The meatworks, in which nearly
a million was invested, have shut after a
tempestuous existence of three years. Labor
leaders of the Bolshevik type besieged the
isolated enterprise, which, in the absence of
a railway and without a constant coming
and going of ordinary sane people from out-
side, was several weeks’ journey from assist-
ance, and they made an end of it. The
Government pubs, which lost money, though
it takes a heap of ingenuity to lose money
selling beer to a highly-paid community in a
hot climate, are closing—some of them, at
least. Even the cocked hats which the
Fisher Government planted abundantly in
the land are diminishing. The brass hats,
which the same combination sent, are dis-
persing. The feathered hats are dying out.
People are being fetched away at the public
expense—which, in the notable scarcity of
people to bring away, has some humor in it.
Yet the Territory, like the rest of the North,
remains the Land of Hope. Only the dis-
tant rulers, whose brightest idea was to send
a Judge in snow-shoes from the Far South
to report on the Far North, are hopeless.
* * * *
Many things have been tried for the
Northern Federal Property, but not the one
thing which is regarded as the infallible
specific everywhere else —the railway. Com-
munities grew up without railways before
there were railways, just as they grew up
without clothes before there were clothes,
but they don’t now—at least not to any
great extent, especially when the country is
also short of roads and rivers. A few years
ago the new Federal Government took its
seat on a rock at Port Augusta, where the
West and the East meet, and where the con-
tinent is narrowest, and pondered over a
problem of railway building. To the north
was the Short Desert, with at least a sort of
oasis at the Ranges. To the west lay the
Long Desert, dead flat. The Government
was pledged to build a northern line and
had been paid with 523,620 square miles of
fairly good land, to do the work. It wasn’t
pledged to the western line, and it hadn’t
been paid for it. The northern line would
make the road from one side of Australia
to the other several thousand miles shorter
than by the sea route. The western line
would make the road from one side to the
other a little longer than by the old combined
rail-and-sea route. The Commonwealth had
the northern line on its hands partly .finished,
while the western one wasn’t even com-
menced. The northern line across the Short
Desert led to and through the middle of a
Federal property which included 180,940
square miles blessed with an annual rainfall
of 20 inches or over. The western line over
the Long Desert led to a State property
(Westralia) with only 139,530 square miles
of equally rained-upon land. Or, rather, it
led to the smaller section of this State, for
Westralia is by nature two widely-separated
States or land islands. There is a very
small patch in the south with the sea on
two sides and a wide belt of rainless coun-
try on the other two, and there is a similar
but immensely-larger isolated fragment in the
north. The railway connects with the
southern fragment only—a patch which is
less than the size of Tasmania. But the
capital (Perth) is in it, and it was inhabited
at the time of the railway bargain by poli-
ticians who had become so inflated with the
fleeting glories of Kalgoorlie that they
thought in empires and blithered in solar
systems.
. * * * *
Through sheer blither the Commonwealth
was induced to mix itself up with a line
across the Long Desert —1050 miles of
Federal railway which doesn’t cross or sight
a single permanent trickle of fresh water
and which doesn’t anything like pay work-
ing expenses, and isn’t likely to do even as
well as it does now when the Kalgoorlie
goldfield wears out. The Commonwealth did
this to connect with a mere scrap of moder-
ately-rained-on land. The scrap, apart from
Kalgoorlie, has no special value, and with
the passing of Kalgoorlie it will presumably
be its old self again. That is to say, it will
be a good enough little estate, but no more
capable of supporting 1050 or 1250 miles of
railway, when these miles have no earning
capacity of their own, than is Goat Island
in Sydney Harbor. When the Golden Mile
wears out it is therefore probable that the
transcontinental train will run only when
a mail steamer comes in at Fremantle. And
when the mails take the Darwin route such
events will be rare.
* * * *
But the calamity of the railway across the
Long Desert —the one which only lengthened
the journey and led to a decaying goldfield
and a mere isolated speck of good land and
a handful of indebted people—stands by
itself. It isn’t evidence from which general
conclusions can be drawn, for there is no
other place in Australia that is quite like
that lonesome patch in the south-west of
the continent, with the sea on two sides and
the rainless country on the other two sides.
Least of all can any conclusions drawn from
the western be applied to the northern line.
Darwin is in the great belt of good land
which includes part of S. Australia, most of
Victoria, a bit of N. S. Wales, a fair amount
of Queensland and much of the Territory
itself. The road to Darwin is short, and it
is also a short cut. The place at the end
of the road represents one-fifth (180,940
square miles out of 922,668 square miles) of
that portion of Australia which has an
annual rain of 20 inches or over. It is
Federal property, so it is really the one place
that the Federal Government should worry
over, and it is the place above all others by
which the possibility of a White Tropical
Australia will be judged to our making or
our undoing. And beyond all that is the
contract with S. Australia, the Common-
wealth undertaking to do certain work for a
specified price, which S. Australia paid.
That contract was entered into in the days
when the Commonwealth Parliament really
was representative of the highest intelli-
gence as well as the soundest patriotism in
the land. It is not only, then, a question of
taking or not taking down S. Australia by
means of a confidence trick ; it is a matter
also of allowing a Parliament of intellectual
midgets to defeat the policy laid down by
the comparative giants of the early days of
Federation.
A CRY FROM FLATLAND.
Because bricklayers won’t work more than
five days a week, and because Mary Ann
has become a picture-usher or gone into the
chorus, and because it is fashionable to move
in a dizzy orbit of theatres, jazz-cafes and
shops, and because centralisation, war ex-
penditure, drought and the prevalence of
mugs with money to burn have sucked
nearly half the population of N. S. Wales
into the maw of Sydney, engendering an
artificial prosperity and forcing land values
up to ridiculous heights, a considerable pro-
portion of the city population dwells in
flats. And the proportion is increasing.
The buildings in course of construction seem
therefore to be nearly all flats. Scores of
seedy “terraces” are being “converted.”. The
speculative builder justly regards it as easy
money, for a dingy row of lodging-houses
can be transformed, at no great outlay, into
a dozen flats, and it is a poor old flat,
furnished after a fashion, that doesn’t let
at £3 10s. a week. For a pile of flats to
yield £lOO a week, which is at least 50 per
cent, of the capital invested, is nothing out
of the way. The Fair Rents Court has
killed the speculative building of workers’
cottages, but there is no Fair Rents Court
for flats.
In a moment of asperity, a Sydney social
worker described flats as “an invention of
the Devil.” This generalisation gave offence
to the philanthropists who let (or sub-let)
flats for a living, and they replied with heat
that their flats were self-contained. That
is the synonyin in Flatland of that blessed
word Mesopotamia—Self-contained. It paints
the faded lily of bourgeois banality and gilds
the eight-carat gold of shabby-gentility;
wherefore the mustiest, fustiest flat in Flat-
dom—dank, herring-gutted and depressing —
is self-contained. You read in the Herald
that some rentlord in Cremorne or Coogee
has the letting of a “fur fl., 3 r., k’ette, no
c., s.-c.,” and investigation discloses a 6 x 2
balcony, a 10 x 8 sitting-room, with a
threadbare square of carpet and three dilapi-
dated chairs, a dining-room of the same
dimensions with a shabby suite and a wall-
bed, a bathroom “with heater” (the heater
is out of order), and a gas-stove set in a
kitchen which is obviously a bad case of
arrested development. You hint that £4
a week is a lot of money to pay for the
appurtenances of a cramped and joyless
existence. The owner replies coarsely that
you can take it or leave it, and perhaps, in
a burst of confidence, he will add that a
sucker is born every minute, and that the
population of Sydney, permanent and tem-
porary, includes any number of flats willing
to pay £4 a week for the sort that is self-
contained.
Which is true enough. In Flatland there
are always people whose main object in life
is to have a good time, and who are rich
enough not to boggle at the outrageous rents
demanded. Lazy voluptuaries who have lost
the taste for home-life, or rubber-necks from
the other States who have come to Sydney
to “see life,” they make their money easily
and spend it freely—so much so that they
contrive to send up the cost of living in the
neighborhoods which they honor with their
presence. This is a fact so well known that
flat districts are carefully avoided by house-
wives in search of goods at moderate prices.
Indeed, the prevalence in Sydney of persons
who don’t mind what they pay for the grati-
fication of their tastes and fancies is an
aspect of the H.C.L. question that hasn't
received the attention it merits.
But most of the inhabitants of Flatland
live there because they must. Many of them
are engaged in a desperate struggle to keep
up appearances, for as a jazzer dresses so
shall she be judged. The women float about
their flats in flowered dressing-gowns, amidst
a general aroma of patchouli and pearl-
cream. When the baker knocks them up
they order half a loaf of bread, and when
the butcher arrives he is bidden to fetch two
chops. And the milkman is often unpleas-
antly frank when he brings the weekly
account for three pints of milk. The collec-
tor for a time-payment drapery firm is a
regular caller. And the girls take in the
Motion-Picture Magazine, and discourse
copiously of Wallace Reid and Eugene
O’Brien and Maurice Costello and other
beautiful players who earn enormous salaries
by making faces in front of a camera, and
they know the latest nigger-shuffle and are
posted in the latest indecency of the latest
and dreariest revue. And the crow’s feet
gather about the old man’s eyes, and he looks
as if he would be all the better for a square
meal. _
Somebody wrote once that “without child-
ren and flowers the world would grow old
and cold.” But flowers don’t bloom op the
carpeted floors of Flatland. and children
rarely stray into that inhospitable clime.


W hen they do it is by the ungracious per-
mission of a reluctant rentlord, and they
are commanded to keep silent lest they annoy
the people in the other flats. Poor little
kids! Poodles are permissible in Flatland,
but children are crimes. You may have a
cat, but you mustn't have a baby. It is an
offence for a Flatland couple to reproduce
their kind.
The conversation of Flatland centres in
sentences like these :
“Howja like the dahnce last night?”
“Whatta va think of Mannix ?”
But the Mannix interrogatory is not pecu-
liar to Flatland. It is aimed at the unsus-
pecting stranger as soon as he reaches Syd-
ney, and is hurled at him wherever he goes.
In truth, the malevolent sectarianism of
Sydney would sicken a dog. There is no-
thing like it in the Bush or the smaller
States of the Commonwealth; there is no-
thing comparable to it anywhere else in
Australia except that other blatant and
bloated city, Melbourne. When the Apostolic
Delegate visited Kalgoorlie (W.A.) recently
one of the first to grasp his hand was the
local Anglican archdeacon. When he reached
Perth he found the R.C. archbishop at the
Town Hall helping to farewell a Methodist
minister. Can anyone imagine that happen-
ing in Sydney or Melbourne? Incidentally,
when Australia was up against it in 1916
Perth voted 3 to 1 for conscription. Sydney’s
vote was 3 to 2 against. But Perth has
neither Flatland nor Slumland; and an in-
quiring visitor can walk about its streets
without having his ears filled with circum-
stantial allegations of graft in high places.
In Sydney he can’t.
Sydney is inclined to look down on other
Australian towns because they are inferior
to it in population. But population is not
the measure of a city’s greatness; nor is
wealth the acid test of its civic soul. No-
where else in Australia is provincialism so
deeply rooted in the life of the community
and found in so many vulgar and venomous
forms.
At night the Flatlanders mingle in hun-
dreds with the most gullible and easily-
diverted audiences in the world. They must
be that, or they wouldn’t suffer the capering
inanities served up to them or swallow the
periodical lie that “our productions are
vastly superior, to London productions.”
I' latland implicitly believes it. and is one
of the. pillars of a theatre which is the last
word in dull indecency and in which the
most important factor is the press-agent.
Seen from the outside, flats are suggestive
of prisons. In a sense, they are prisons.
Prisons of souls.
It is a tragic commentary on a century
of misgovernment that, with the width of
a continent at the back of them, scores of
thousands of Sydney people should be herded
in flats and slums, where thought is stifh'd
and the. affections are discouraged. Und( •
such blighting conditions a healthy social
consciousness and a happy child life are
alike impossible. 11l fares the city where
there is no room for children.
J. E. W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bolshevism Enlightening the World.
Every now and then some person with a
ioose jaw and impaired vision rises and re-
marks that the Australian worker is a poor,
downtrodden creature compared with the
moujik of Muscovy. Speaking at Towns-
ville (jN.Cj.), to the Labor Convention of
which he was appointed president, Clarence
Demaine, M.L.A., said that “Russia had
lighted a torch whose flame would spread
throughout the world,” the reference being,
of course, to the birth of Bolshevism. It is an
unfortunate illustration, for the torch, con-
sidered as an illuminant, is a poor old thing
(civilisation has a lingering prejudice in favor
of electric-light), and its use for incendiary
purposes is discouraged, in non-Bolshevist
C r U J l^r * es ’ by the criminal code. As an agency
of destruction it has had a good run in Rus-
sia since Lenin and Trotsky overthrew the
feckless Kerensky regime, but countries
which have studied the Russian conflagration
at close quarters, and others which have
viewed the reflection from afar, have come to
the emphatic conclusion that they would
rather not. The Bolshevist experiment has
lasted about three years, and in the calendar
of revolutions three years is a long time. In
the same period the French of the first Re-
public did rather notable things. They put
down several formidable risings, defeated the
armies of Prussia, Austria, Russia, England,
bpain and Italy, and carried their principle
into the _ neighboring countries. And the
French didn’t accept their Revolution, as the
Bolshevists did. from the hands of a con-
queror. Nor did they owe their deliverance
the conqueror to the victory in battle
ot allies whom they had deserted, and whom
they repaid by seizing the gold lent by these
allies to their predecessors in the govern-
ment of the country, and by repudiating the
national debt. Nor did important provinces
or France secede, and maintain their seces-
sion, from the French Republic in token of
their utter abhorrence of Republicanism.
All this has happened in Bolshevist Russia,
and there are none .so blind as those who
won t see. The Soviet Republic is contigu-
ous on the European side with Finland,
Lsthonia, Poland and Roumania, and its
boundaries approach those of Hungary and
Germany. For at least two years it has
made desperate efforts co Bolshevise all these
border-States, but all have repelled it. Its
nearest neighbors are indeed Bolshevism’s
bitterest enemies. Finland and Esthonia
broke away from Lenin’s country and drove
the Bolshevists beyond their frontiers.
1 oland is fighting a war with Soviet Russia
at the present moment. All the encourage-
ment Trotsky got from Roumania was the
loss ot Bessarabia. Hungary sampled Bol-
shevism under the regime of Kun, which is
the Hungarian way of .spelling Cohen,
e * thr , ee . months bad had enough
ot it. And in their darkest hours of
depression Germany and Austria merely con-
sidered the Bolshevist and turned away. “The
German workers,” said Vorwarts a year
a £°' reject the Oriental socialism known
as Bolshevism.” and at the Reichstag elec-
tions a few weeks ago the Sovietists won
two seats—two out of 460. A cause is
known by the company it keeps, and the
Bolshevists keep bad company. So far the
only converts they have made are a rabble
of Turks, Afghans, Persian freebooters and
Koreans. They hire Chinese to fight for
them, and they intrigue with Hindoos and
Kurds, and they are not above inciting
Asiatic Mohammedans to a religious war
against the whites. There are possibly Aus-
tralians —alleged Australians —who admire
these ruffians and their black record, know-
ing the facts. But a lot of the long-haired
noodles who talk wild things about lighting
up the dark night of capitalism with Bol-
shevist torches don’t know the facts, and
would be considerably ashamed of them-
selves if they did. All their gaseous predic-
tions of Sovietism conquering the world
break idly against the rook-ribbed truth
that Central Europe has turned the system
down and that Western Europe and North
and South America won’t have it on their
minds. There is a certain grotesque humor
in the suggestion that Australia will humbly
accept what Czechs and Poles and Finns
have rejected, and herd in along with Turks,
Tartars, Persians, Afghans and Kurds, the
ragtag and bobtail of Indo-Europe, but it
is not so humorous as it is humiliating, and
the humiliation is wholly undeserved.
Society Gets a Bad Advt.
Last week in Sydney Eli Cromwell
Bugby, a young ex-A.I.F. officer, who had
been shell-shpcked and gassed, committed
suicide. He had had an admirable career
as a soldier; and before enlisting he was a
capable sailor. It might be fairly expected
that the community would hold some sort
of niche for a citizen like that; he, though
married, having risked all and sacrificed
much for Australia. Yet he destroyed him-
self, according to the evidence at the in-
quest, because no one would give him work.
Lord llaig issued a sort of manifesto to
the employers of Britain the other day. He
was impelled to do it by the number of
cases which were coming to light analogous
to that of last week’s victim. He admitted
that many of the returned men, were not
their old selves, that some might never be
themselves agaip. Even those who had lost
nothing but several of the best years of their
lives might be irritable in the presence of
eligibles who had prospered as a result of
their absence. llaig asked the employers to
go out of their way to, help such men, and
even to humor them. The mere idea of the
appeal would have seemed grotesque before
the fighting ended; but with the departure
of the great danger the perspective of many
people has changed. A London cable actu-
ally mentioned, a few days ago, that “the
employing classes are fighting shy of Y.C.’s,
considering them to be temperamentally un-
suited for business”; and a S. Australian
paper has printed this advt. signed by one
of them :
I want work; will take anything. Inwood, V.C.,
3 Elizabeth-street, Norwood.
The sort of thing which that indicates has
been the rule after all previous wars. But
the British Empire had never faced a war
like the last; Property had never had such
cause to be scared; and promises were never
so rife concerning the magnificent things that
would be done, privately as well as publicly,
for the young men who came forward to
save the situation. The Australian Govern-
ment has fulfilled most of its promises. In
some respects it has even gone beyond them.
The record of some Australian employers is
less creditable. Yet to consider cases like
that of the late Eli Bugby on the lowest
level, they provide powerful documents for
use against society as it exists at present.
When the petty wars of the past ended there
was no particular obligation on the employ-
ing classes to look after the homing fighters.
On this occasion everyone faced by the danger
recognised the obligation. And every denial
of it acts as a justification of present in-
surgency and future repudiation of national
obligations. It would pay Capital hand-
somely to take steps to ensure that no ex-
soldier should be driven to suicide for lack
of a job. _ Not even if he had been a poor
sort of toiler before his enlistment, and had
deteriorated under the stress of war. A 1917
leading article on the duties of those fit to
fight and the splendid intentions of their
employers in regard to them, in juxtaposition
with a 1920 diamond-merchant’s catalogue
and a newspaper-cutting setting out that a
returned man had hanged himself because he,
his wife and family were in abject want —it
is from such apparently unrelated causes
that revolutions spring.
< ♦
The Cost of Law.
“Bill o’ Costs” on his profession:—
You administer (B. 17/6/’2O) a proper rebuke
to the distinguished counsel of Melbourne and else-
where who fail to turn up at the hearing of their
cases, passing their briefs on to juniors and others.
In Adelaide our leading counsel are above that
sort of thing. They turn up with great regularity ;
“steady and often” is their motto. It sounds like
the big brother of “Go slow,” if one dared impute
such a policy to the highest courts of the State;
but it only means that there is no indecent haste
in the tribunals and no refusal of duty, except in
case—but you shall hear.
One Court has been sitting pretty steadily since
March 8 last on what is known as “the Wharf arbi-
tration.” It is the usual thing—private wharves
resumed by the Government without mention of
price, and a stupendous claim fired in subsequently.
It appears to be only a matter of how much. Of
course magnitude of claim isn’t everything. The
recent arbitration over the Teesdale-Smith claim
of £102,000 compensation for a well in the wilder-
ness taken by the East-West railway brought forth
from the laboring mountain such a diminutive mouse
that the little beast must have been smothered
by the cataract of costs heaved after him. The
Wharves claim, with a mere three and a half months
to its credit, looks good for a long life yet. Two local
land-agents would probably have made up their minds
about it in as many minutes as it takes the big
Court days. Ask them? The primitive idea! Con-
sider how the Court is constituted and withhold
rash criticism. Justice Gordon is supported on his
right and left by a K.C. and another prominent
lawyer—nominated by the two sides as assessors.
In front of them are four more K.C.’s with their
retinue of juniors, solicitors and clerks. No out-
sider ever -finds the slightest interest in the proceed-
ings, so it must be a uniquely expensive tribunal
from end to end. Long ago they adjourned for
the usual “view,” gnd all hands, from arbitrators
to tipstaff, journeyed to Port Adelaide, gazed at
the sluggish water, the coal-dust and weevil-eaten
wheat, and listened, to the language of the pilots.
That “view,” a mere suburban run, must have
run away with over £2OO. But perhaps they had
a nice day for it. Still, even lawyers are not immor-
tal. One of the solicitors concerned died lately, and
the Court made appropriate references and adjourned
to next day in solemn recognition of the circum-
stance. There was not the slightest necessity for
this, nor did anyone pretend that there was; but
it was a kind thought, and possibly all were a
trifle jaded after 14 weeks of the case.
In the adjacent Courts the other Judges are en-
gaged in trials of no particular importance, petty
squabbles over wills and the like, and the news-
paper reports from day to day are about the dullest
I ever remember. They mostly read: “After fur-
ther argument the Court adjourned till to-morrow,”
or “Mr. , K.C., continued his argument. Left
sitting.” Sometimes the papers in an informative
mood head the report “Tenth day” or something like
that. Then they lose count and interest.
Within biscuit-throw of these examples of digni-
fied deliberation sits the Local Court—equivalent
to a County Court elsewhere, with jurisdiction up
to £499. There it is the exception for any case
to occupy more than one day, and the average
must be over half a dozen per diem, duly heard
and determined, arguments, evidence and all. But,
then, the minor Judge is a busy man who has other
work, has to Struggle with a congested cause-list
single-handed, and he hasn’t a secure tenure of
office either. The litigants are not as tolerant, and
the lawyers engaged are mostly juniors, inexperi-
enced or incompetent in the arts of forensic attenua-
tion. Hence arises the anomaly that suitors often
abandon the excess of a claim over £499 in order
to get the benefit of the cheap and speedy procedure
of the inferior Court. They reason fairly that the
beak isn t any oftener reversed on appeal than is
the Supreme Court itself, in spite of the differ-
ence in standing and methods; and finally (or
firstly) they remember that the costs—oh, shame!
They are on such a pitiful scale that no one ever
thinks it worth while spinning out —but, hush! We
will have no unprofessional imputations, please.
The truth is that our leading counsel are incur-
ably loquacious, and take all sorts of liberties (pos-
sibly they are not singular), and weak Judges make
no attempt to restrain them. They take the line of
least resistance, which is also the line of greatest
length; but don’t you imputg any “Go slow” busi-
ness to them, or we shall have the Judges indig-
nantly declaring, after the example of brother
Higgins, that all such charges “evaporate on in-
quiry,” and I hate to think of evaporating things
with petrol at 4s. a gallon and whisky at nine-
pence a homoeopathic nip.
A Carefully-cultivated Emptiness.
Fob the thousand-and-blankth time the
central executive of Australian Labor has
put it on record that it objects with all its
might to any scheme of immigration what-
soever until land has been found for all the
alleged multitude that wants it, and until
work is found for all the unemployed who
allegedly want it. As regards the unem-
ployed, there are a dozen skilled and fairly-
paid jobs waiting for each one of them —
possibly more. The trouble is that prac-
tically the whole of them have no skill, only
muscle, and the only big market for plain
muscle is on those works that a harried and
impecunious Government invents out of G£
per cent, loan money, and which have to be
kept going out of taxes afterwards. As for
the land-seekers, there are fertile counties
near the coast with only half a person to
the square mile ; but they are too far from
a big seaport city to allow farming to pay,
and there is only permitted to be one big-
city in a State. For both these deadlocks
Labor is as much responsible as anybody
else —perhaps rather more than anybody
else. It began to discourage the growth of
manufactures many years ago by “sinking
the fiscal issue,” thereby sharing the sin of
the old Freetrade gang. It discouraged the
multiplication of skilled workers, and con-
sequently inflated the army of the unskilled,
by restricting apprenticeship, which was a
sin of its own ; and it allied itself with the
herd which puts a wet blanket on skilled
enterprise by preaching the confiscation of
the workshops, and this again was its own
special iniquity. It has done more than
any other party to coddle the nationally-
meiiicient with loan money, which is the
fourth count in the indictment against it.
And in N. S. Wales especially no political
crowd has pursued more earnestly the policy
of making settlement practically impossible
over half or two-thirds of the State’s fertile
area by creating artificial remoteness from
a market. It even sank its alleged policy
of public land-ownership when there was a
chance to found new centres with the com-
munity as sole ground-landlord, so wedded
was- it to the One Big City and the private
land-monopolists thereof. There is no doubt
a limit to the population that even a more
fertile country than Australia can carry;
but until that point has been reached living
ls . as easy in a well-ordered country for a
million people as for 1000. And the cost
of Government per head is much less.
Shall it be Soldiers or Sheep?
The Closer Settlement Board has compul-
sorily acquired the Trawalla Estate of 43.000
acres for soldier-settlement.” That was
printed inconspicuously in the Melbourne
dailies the other day, and it has aroused no
comment worth mentioning. Yet it seems
to be the beginning of a big campaign to
shift the squatter and settle the soldier
where he may have a chance. Ten months
ago the Ripon branch of the Soldiers’
League, despairing of obtaining suitable land
m its own district by voluntary agencies
and refusing to be enticed away into the
Mallee, asked the Government' to make a
fair offer for Trawalla Estate, and in the
event of refusal to compulsorily acquire it.
Trawalla is beautiful open country, ready
for the plough. At present it carries a
sheep and a half to the acre, and it could
carry that number of human beings. It
has a long frontage to the main Melbourne-
Adelaide line, and is within 24 miles of Bal-
larat. _ The rainfall ranges from 24 inches
to 28 inches, and there are good roads, and
schools and post-offices in the neighborhood
On being approached by the Closer Settle-
ment Board the owners said, through their
solicitors, that there was nothing doing.
The Board accordingly served them with
a preliminary notice of intention to
value the property with a view of ac-
quiring it. When the valuers came along
the owners said they would sell for £7 per
acre, which was £1 75.-6 d. per acre above
the sworn probate valuation, and about the
same amount above the municipal and land-
tax valuations. The Board replied by offer-
ing £5 15s. per acre. As a rule, such a
difference between the Board and an owner
results in the papers being pigeonholed
and nothing more being heard of the mat-
ter. But the Ripon Diggers were a resolute
body, and they commenced a publicity cam-
paign to achieve their object. There were
public meetings, newspaper articles, deputa-
tions to the Assistant Minister of Lands,
questions in the House, and illustrative pos-
ters showing that 198,000 acres were held
by seven neighbors in the County of Ripon
with not a solitary soldier-settler among
them. Then the Lawson Cabinet sat up
and took notice. It decided to acquire Tra-
wool, and resolved while in the humor to rip
up Ripon properly, wherefore it gave the rest
of the rich landlords notice of intention to
acquire. And now an alarmed squattocracy
is rushing in with offers of their fertile sheep-
walks, thus saving Lawson the necessity of
exercising the painful compulsory clauses
of the Closer Settlement Acts in the interests
of the returned Digger.
A Worn-Out Statesman.
Honest John, of Balmain, who is Premier
of N. S. Wales these days, is very sorry for
himself already. “1 have only been in office
nine weeks,” he said lately, “but it seems
like nine years. There is so much work to
be done, and it has taken so much out of
me.” That was Johnesque to the last degree.
Men have worn themselves out demonstrat-
ing that the earth is flat; hunting for places
that never existed; collecting fantods and
forged postage-stamps and the skins of old
delusions; and they have died on toilsome
pilgrimage to the wonder-working shrine of
St. Myth, which wouldn’t have been there
if they had reached it. Being tired is no
evidence that a man has been doing useful
work. It is hardly even evidence that he
has been doing any work. The Storey Gov-
ernment has so far cut out all Parliamentary
toil except the election of a Speaker. It
hasn’t tackled a Budget yet, but has sat and
watched the revenue flowing in and the de-
ficit flowing out. Any man can sit on the
shore and study an exactly similar phe-
nomenon without being called on to push the
old tide out and drag the new one in. It hasn’t
announced any elaborate policy, though it
has mentioned a lot of money-spending
schemes, and has borrowed £4,500,000 in
nine weeks, which is half a million a week,
or £26,000,000 a year. It has also paid
the highest interest on modern record, and
expects to pay more. But borrowing is a thing
that may be done in bed if only a lender
comes to the bedside. The new combine is
in no hurry to meet Parliament, and is
taking its time over any policy it may have.
Its most notable activity, apart from its
attendance on the Prince, has been an
eviction quite in the old Irish-landlord style.
It fired a union into the street though it
was composed of returned soldiers and though
its members hadn’t broken their agree-
ments or the law, and gave the premises
to another union in the same (wharf-lump-
ing) line of business though its members
had broken the law and attempted to hold
up the trade of the country and prevent, in
the pro-Hun interest, the despatch of troops.
John Storey, in fact, is worn out with
laboriously playing the part of the
Unspoiled Boiler-building Brother of Bal-
main. One of his earliest complaints
was that constituents dropped into his
house and his office at all hours to call
him Jack and give him points about run-
ning the country, and tell him their per-
sonal affairs. In fact, the affairs of a State
containing two million people and over
300,000 square miles are run altogether too
much by old friendly unionists at Balmain
who drop in to give the Premier points, and
who would cool towards him and call him
a jumped-up autocrat if he mentioned that
proximity to his home didn’t make them
members of the Cabinet to the exclusion of
equally good unionists at Newcastle or
Albury or Bourke. Peremptory summonses to
caucus meetings also took up a vast amount
of time in the early days of the Ministry,
and probably always will, for the whole
party under the present weak control insists
on being the Cabinet. In short, the Ministers
apparently discourse all day to bores whom
they can’t shunt any more than the two
comic kings of Barataria dared shunt their
subjects; and it was typical of the
whole gossiping, old-womanly, tea-and-
toast arrangement that Premier Storey
spoke his wail of exhaustion while opening
a new picture-show at the dismal suburb
of Enmore, the Attorney-General and an-
other member helping. The citv is “stiff”
with picture-shows, and N. S. Wkles doesn’t
pay its Ministers big salaries to open them.
Ihe biggest men in history never opened a
picture-show in their lives.
♦
Labor’s Dry Rot.
J. E. Ogden, leader of the Tasmanian Labor
party, has his say :
In a Bulletin leader on June 17 the writer com-
plained that the recent Tasmanian Labor Conference
was dull and failed to produce “flashes of imagina-
tion ” apparently because it failed to adopt some
kind of wild resolution for the industrial control-
of industry. Lane’s New Australia experiment was
something akin to community control of industry.
How did it end? Conference certainly was asked
to deal with a motion of this .sort, which it con-
sidered a crude attempt to introduce some kind of
Soviet control of railways, and another ‘ which
attempted to substitute for our present system that
of electing our Parliamentary representatives by
industrial bodies. Both resolutions were sponsored
by the same delegate, who failed to make out any
case at all for these radical and doubtful changes,
and Conference postponed consideration, preferring
to trust, for the time being anyway, the devil that
we know. The writer of the article does not him-
self claim any merit for these things, but merely
says that it would cause the Party to be “talked
about.” We are evidently getting this notoriety with-
out doing these things.
The second paragraph charges Labor with pander-
ing to denominational organisations, or, to put
plainly what is actually meant, the Catholic Feder-
ation. Labor has been charged likewise often before.
When we opposed Conscription we were in league
with Dr. Mannix. If we support self-determination
of peoples as applied to Ireland, we are Sinn
Feiners. If we say anything bad about Denerin or
Kolchak, we are Bolsheviks. If we express sym-
pathy with the starving children of Austria or Ger-
many, we are pro-Germans. In fact, anything we


w
mrnm
mm
■ ■
£
l
m
'mm.
‘'it
ATS
«<■■ m
yillsircLklcL
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy'.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
IN THE DINING ROOMS or
PRIVATE ROOMS at Puncheon.
Dinner or Supper—All meals served
a la carte. Order early and avoid
delay.
fg
do is considered a crime by our opponents, whilst
the things we oppose are shining virtues. Labor is
used to these things, so that when we read this
paragraph, almost a verbatim reproduction of argu-
ments or statements made by anti-Oatholic delegates
at the Conference, we only smile. Labor’s attitude
towards State education in this State is the same as
it was 20 years ago. We are pledged against any
grant or subsidy to denominational schools, and we
believe in this. But if any denomination, or other
body, chooses, at its own expense, to furnish educa-
tional facilities (providing the education is up to
the State standard and schools are subject to State
inspection!, we do not mind, nor object. Any effici-
ent system of education, by whomsoever provided,
is good for the State. We have often urged a cash sub-
sidy for the establishment of a Trades Hall in which
industrialists might inculcate industrial and econo-
mic education. The denominational schools do not
bar any child of whatever religious faith, and do
not attempt to enforce any form of religious teach-
ing whatever upon those not of their particular
religion. So we say to these people “Go ahead.” We
are prepared, in the interests of the children attend-
ing, to throw open all facilities for an efficient
training at these schools, that are open to the State
scholar. We thus send our visiting dentists and
doctors to these private schools to watch the health
of the children. If a country parent chooses to send
his child to a private school we give this, as well as
the other one, free railway travelling. We give this
same child the privilege of attending Sloyd and cook-
ery classes run by the State. Is there anyone but a
religious bigot that could reasonably object to this?
There are some mentalities, I know, narrow enough to
let the child that attends a denominational school
suffer, physically, mentally, morally and any other
way; but fortunately for the future citizens of this
State they are in a hopeless minority. Let us express
pity for the individual that considers such inhumanity
as “flashes of imagination.” The pages of ancient his-
tory are multiplied by recitals of persecutions of
those that chose a teaching contrary to the belief
of the ruling classes. Modern history is repeating
these crimes. The Czar sent thousands of Socialist
students to their graves and scattered the remnants
to the four corners of the earth. Ferrer, the Spanish
educationalist, was murdered by the King’s author-
ity because of hisi advanced system of secular, educa-
tion. The Moslems persecute and slay the Armenian
Christians and prevent the establishment of their
schools. Attorney-General Palmer, of the United
States, has lately earned notoriety by his ruthless,
illegal and cruel methods of dealing with those
who dared to establish organisations for industrial
and educational purposes. The Reds may have been
misguided, but they were engaged in what they
believed honest propaganda. We want no modern
Neros nor Cromwells in this country. The Labor
party needs no apologists for and fears no criticism
by its opponents of its attitude towards the educa-
tion of the children. In case I may be misunder-
stood let me say that I dm not championing
denominational schools, but merely pleading for the
little ones that attend them.
The third and concluding paragraphs are choked
with suspicion and innuendo about Labor’s partner-
ship with “Importer,” “Bung,” “Mother Church”
and “Pony Spieler.” The Labor party has not yet
declared against prohibition, but I am hoping that
some day soon it will (especially since reading the
report of the recent Royal Commission on the pur-
chase of railway engines for the Tas. Govt.). If
I am going to be robbed I prefer that my pal shall
not be the robber. But this is another story. We
still believe that nationalisation of the drink traffic
is the best solution of this problem, and as we are
also supporters of Initiative and Referendum, we are
not going to allow the Cold Tea party to use us for
their own little pet referendum on the drink ques-
tion, but want to force them to assist us to get
the main question adopted. This is why a majority
of our party vote against a referendum on drink.
I suppose “Mother Church” means the Roman Catho-
lic Church. We have only three of this religious
brand out of 13, and the Catholic voters constitute
about one-fourth of the electors, so it would not be
a paying proposition, anyhow. An opponent of mine
once tried to persuade a Methodist friend of mine
to vote against me, by saying that I was a Catholic.
My friend replied, “I know he is not one.” “Oh,
well,” said my opponent, “he is just as bad as
one.” This seems to be all the argument there is
in the reference. Uncontrollable sectarian bitterness
is a disease, and I often feel pity for those that
. are stricken this way. I will have to make in-
quiries about the pony spieler. I do not exactly
know what concession he wants from the Labor party.
To which merely this :
(1) The Bulletin described the Labor party in
general and the Tasmanian party in particular as
afflicted with dry rot. It accused the leaders of
the party of being grovellers after votes. It
offered the late Conference in Tasmania as an instance
of the poverty and drabness of the party’s ideas.
Mr. Ogden merely produces evidence to support this
charge. The Conference, he admits, “prefers the
devil it knows.” Good old Tory!
(2) Mr. Ogden puts it quite correctly that the
article charged the Tasmanian Conference with pan-
dering to denominational organisations. And he
proceeds to add to the evidence The Bulletin fur-
nished. The system of State education has been
thrown overboard. The party not only demands
that the State shall provide free railway carriage
for youngsters attending denominational schools, run
in competition with the State schools, but also
demands that the State shall subsidise the Trades
Hall for teaching its brand of education.
Mr. Ogden doesn’t know about the support the
Labor party gets from certain elements whose associa-
tion does it no good. But that Mr. Ogden is
ignorant of many things he should know had been
made obvious already.
♦
“The King’s Forests.”
The famine in newsprint grows worse, and
the suspension of a multitude of papers is
in sight. So the Australian Freeirade Press,
true to its instincts, has risen up to demand
not that Australia should drop some of its
loan-drought-land-settlement and its loan-
drought-railway-building folly and put its
soul into manufacturing paper and 1000
other things, but that the paltry duty (the
maximum on newsprint is 10 per cent.)
should be taken off that imports may roll
in. As a matter of fact, they wouldn’t roll
even if the 10 per cent, duty was turned
into 10 per cent, bonus. Paper is now fetch-
ing from eight to ten times its pre-war price,
but in the countries w T here it is produced
most largely Governments are putting an
embargo on unlimited export, and even if
the price offered was multiplied another 10
times they are not likely to take the embargo
off. Newspapers have increased wonder-
fully—there are 2319 big papers published
in the British Isles where in 1846 there
were 550 small ones, and in 1846 much of
the rest of the world had barely started.
The fairly accessible softwood forests have
been eaten up by them all since wood-paper
was first made in 1866 and eaten by other
things as well, one of them being the amazing
multiplication of the human race and the
spread of settlement which prevented the tim-
ber lands being replanted even if anyone had
looked to the future. The last Century-in-
a-Hurry has exhausted, or nearly so, a
MORE PILGRIM FATHERS.
“The Manchester Guardian reports an exodus of wealthy Americans, who are going to enrich the
hotels of England and the Continent solely by reason of the ban which prohibition in their own country
has placed upon the convivial life to which they have been habituated."
lot of things that took millions of years to
develop. For instance, in that period the
United States has used up the buffalo herds,
the best of its known oil-deposits, the path-
less forests where the Iroquois and the
Mohican and the Huron used to roam and
where Fenimore Cooper wandered in his
mind, the Indian himself, the wild horse.
So countries with softwood reserves look
to a time when they may corner or rule
the world’s literature, and it may be soon.
Crcesus himself won’t be able to buy
from them then unless he can offer
some advantage besides mere cash. Hence
the countries like Australia which lack
softwood forests had better get to
work making paper out of straw, and
thereby help along agriculture as a side-
line. If the duty on paper accelerates this
process by even a day it is a mighty good
duty. Speaking of England in this connec-
tion, the present is that country’s second
wood-famine and the first was before news-
papers were invented. In the gaudy Nor-
man and Plantagenet days of adventure
“the King’s forests” were cut down gaily
to build ships and other things. By the
time of Richard 11. the famine had begun.
Shipbuilding materials were imported from
Russia, but the White Sea route was un-
known, and the remote Bosphorus gate was
held by the Greeks, and the adjacent Baltic
gate was held by the grumpy, grasping Ger-
mans of the Hanse towns. During a long
period of dull eclipse, broken certainly by
a few military adventures undertaken by
Hun permission, these aliens dictated Eng-
land’s foreign policy, had their own quarter
in London, appointed their own judges in
the English commercial courts, insisted on
exemption from much taxation, and forbade
or limited the export of English manufac-
tures. When the White Sea route to Russia
was found, and the restless, spacious Eliza-
beth began to annex big forests of her own
in America, the whole scene changed. Now
“the King’s forests” are running short
again, though not for the old reasons, and
fortune seems like playing a coarse, unseemly
jest on a bigger scale.
Secessionists, Lucky and Otherwise.
Deak Bulletin, —I had just settled down
for a smoke and a well-earned rest from
hearing about that wondrous patriot and
boundless moral example, Abraham Lin-
coln of the United States, when, behold, he
turned up again. It was British Premier
Lloyd George, of coursq, and the subject
was Ireland, as usual: —
Mr. Lloyd George said that unless it was beaten
to the ground the Government would never agree
to an independent Irish republic. He drew an
analogy between Ireland and • America. He said
Lincoln faced a million casualties in a five-years
war rather than acknowledge the independence of
the Southern States. The British Government would
do the same thing if necessity arose.
But there were other men who fought “trea-
son” and secession, and history
think much of them. The French Kings of
England—the Normans and the Angevins
who followed —brought into the new part-
nership more than half France, and brought
it by divine right. In fact, they. were
France. But the French provinces disliked
the English connection and proceeded to
secede and change their flag. After 100
years of war secession came out on top.
Joan of Arc was among those who fired
the last shot. Again, nearly 300 years were
spent in fighting the question whether Scot-
land, secured in the same way as Ireland
by an admission of vassalage and a Papal
grant, had a right to secede. Wallace, the
first and greatest Jefferson Davis of Scot-
land, was hanged by Lincoln (that is to
say, Edward 1.), who upheld the great prin-
ciple of union. George 111. was anti-seces-
sionist and a fierce believer in union, like
Lincoln and Lloyd George. Lincoln
fought to uphold George lll.’s idea and to
put down George Washington’s. Inci-
dentally, George 111. didn’t fail so badly as
some people think. He saved Canada, New-
foundland and a lot of the Indies. Then
there was an imperishable group of anti-
secessionists who upheld the integrity of the
Spanish Empire in the Netherlands — Alva,
Don John of Austria, Alexander Farnese,
Spinola, and that remarkable he-woman Mar-
garet of Parma. They were Lincolns and
Lloyd Georges to a man; and as they saved
10 provinces out of 17 they didn’t entirely
fail either. On the whole, however, the
luck has been with the secessionists and
against the Lloyd Georges. Ibrahim of
Egypt broke down badly while Lloyd GeoßGE-
ing in Greece. Kosciusko failed in his
attempt to disrupt an empire, but the failure
was only temporary and the empire is dis-
rupted. Eminent Sinn Feiners like Gari-
baldi in Italy, Bolivar and San Martin
and Itubbide in Spanish America, Kaka
Geobge in Serbia, and many more burst up
the union, though the King said they wouldn t
and the Prime Minister said surrender was
impossible. In fact, the rather antiquated,
out-of-date and muzzle-loading Lincoln
stands for almost the last victory of the
Lloyd Geobge principle. Since then the
map of the world has been moving round
till it looks like a whirligig, kaleidoscope or
phantasmagoria, and the movement has been
all one way. If Lincoln’s work was per-
manent, which isn’t settled yet, for it takes
a lot more than 55 years to decide such
things, he died with a million ghosts to keep
him company, and with the knowledge that
he had spent his political life to defend a
right of coercion which was no right at all,
for there was no word of it in the Constitu-
tion, and to support Geobge lll.’s view
against George Washington’s. Also he
was a jest on the name of Abraham. Abra-
ham’s secession made history. It also made
Christianity.—-Yours, Solomon Malaprop.
4,
The purchase of the 1700-ton tramp steamer
Melbourne by the Tasmanian Government
raises the Speck to the dignity of shipowner
at last. Up till quite lately it was the chief
article in the little island’s creed of Anti-
Sosh that for the State to own anything that
Private Enterprise was willing to own was
a hideous mistake, and dead-sure to drive
capital out of the country and discourage the
development of the great natural resources,
etc. As a result of this policy the isle has
been flogged unmercifully in fares and
freights. When competition between the
Union Co. and Huddaßt Parker disap-
peared, the agitation for a recasting of the
ancient creed started to grow so furiously
that successive Anti-Sosh Governments were
hard put to it to find excuses for postponing
State steamers. Eventually, when the Labor
party made the question an election issue,
and 'looked like winning, the Lee-Propsting
Government hurriedly assured the electors
that it would start a line of steamers imme-
diately. After a further delay of nearly two
years in organising the new department,
appointing a manager, etc., the s.s. Mel-
bourne appears. Anti-Sosh sniffs violently
at Lee, as in duty bound ; but the Premier s
strategical publication of the dimensions of
the craft may be expected to mollify the
Ancient Person. It is such a little thing!
»
One of the first difficulties to confront the
administrators of the Volstead Act in the
IJ.S.A. has been the interpretation of the word
“intoxicant.” Almost every beverage except
plain water is liable to develop alcohol, and
so become an intoxicant within the meaning
of the new Act. History suggests the re-
sult. One class will be allowed to browse
at will in the lush fields of alcohol: another
will be run in for looking over the fence.
There is nothing so fatal to the liberty of
the subject as a punitive measure which
lends itself to manipulation by those in
authority. Take drunkenness in the A.I.F.
No one has ever satisfactorily defined drunk-
enness for the purposes of a court-martial.
That is to say, no authority has been able
to put his finger on the exact point where
relaxation ends and offence begins. Techni-
cally anyone is drunk who is under the in-
fluence of alcohol; and a man who drinks one
whisky comes under the influence of it more
or less. So the court-martial which had
decided to get rid of a man paid no atten-
tion to the evidence of his witnesses that
he could walk and talk satisfactorily, that
he had not been uproarious and so forth,
and found as required with a clear conscience.
The War Precautions Act, to which the
Hughes Government is clinging so affec-
tionately, operates in the same way. Practi-
cally everyone in the community becomes
liable to punishment under it, but only the
few —the weak and the obscure —suffer.
Similarly, the rich and the political bosses
won’t be discommoded greatly by America’s
Volstead Act; the real sufferers will be
the indigent.
Smith, living in a country town, will carry
his boots to the cobbler’s and think nothing
of the patch, and Mrs. Smith won’t mind
who knows that she does her own work ; in
fact, nobody will expect her to do anything
else. But let Smith move to the big, garish
city, with men talking in millions and a
thousand agencies at work, subtly and other-
wise, to make Smith spend money, and
Smith won’t wear patched boots, and Mrs.
Smith will want at first one maid and then
two at the least, even if she ruins Smith
in the process. Whether a country’s govern-
ment is run on the one set of rails or the
other depends very largely upon where it
sets up and maintains its government. It it
makes its biggest city its seat of government
it will hang the expense; if it works in the
more natural atmosphere of a country town
it won’t think it disgraceful to practise
economies and live within its income. Aus-
tralia’s curse is not merely its bloated cities;
it is that those bloated cities are the only
•seats of government the whole vast country
knows.


k'Y?/
/rib
1
SOLfO
iNcncoieN
RACKARQCK
RENDROCR
(RACRAROCK)
is Now Available. Made in Australia.
This Favorite Compound, is fully 50 per cent, more economical in use than any high explosive.
The ingredients are carried on the railways at ordinary Merchandise Rates.
No magazine is required to store the ingredients, which are quite harmless until combined.
Unsurpassed for Blowing Out Stumps and Trees, and for Subsoiling Land; for Quarrying.
Send for our bulletin, describing its uses.
Sole Proprietors: GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N. S. Wales State finances are always
expected to look up in the last month of
the financial year. There is, as a rule, a
deficit up to the end of May. but then
£2,400,000 or so of income-tax falls due in
a heap to save the situation. Thanks to
the wonderful buoyancy of the expenditure
in the last few weeks, this hasn’t happened
in 1920. The revenue was £2,757,700 more
than was expected, but then the expenditure
was £4,317.217 more than was expected.
So there is a record revenue —more than
twice that of 1911 —and also a record deficit
of £1,559,517. And Motherhood Minister
McGirr hasn’t even commenced to pension
all the children yet.
According to Hughes, resigning had be-
come a habit with Willie Watt, and as he
was so insistent the last time he was allowed
to have 'his own way. Foreseeing what
would be the ultimate result of their part-
nership, several of Watt’s former associates
in State politics tried to persuade him to
stand out when Hughes reconstructed the
Ministry after throwing up the sponge in
technical compliance with his promise to go
out if the conscription referendum resulted
in a negative vote. But he was too hungry
to listen and too sure of himself. Now
Hughes has beaten him on tactics; but those
who know Watt predict that, in the language
of the push, he will wait for his enemy.
There was nothing suggestive of free
drinks and a box at the opera in the recep-
tion that London gave to Robinson of Vic-
toria when that lonesome lawyer went to
see about renewing the £6,000,000 loan that
has come home to roost at an awkward time.
The city told Robinson, in effect, that he
could have a short renewal at “a high rate
of interest.” Then Robinson’s partner,
Treasurer McPherson; woke up in Melbourne.
He battled personally with the renewal of
the last £4,000,000 loan, actually paying off
one million and getting fair terms on the
other three. The haggis blood being up,
he has now found £550,000 of revenue
towards meeting the six-million emergency.
•Then he skirled the bagpipes so persuasively
to certain banks that they found £2,725,000
at oh per cent. That leaves about £2,700,000
to be battled for in London, and McPherson
will get it somehow if his insinuating Scotch
accent holds out.
Last year Melbourne’s Metropolitan Board
of Works reduced its debt by £246,000.
Thus it was that when it had to float a
little redemption loan the other day it
got the full £250,000 at 5i per cent., which
is 1 per cent, less than N. S. Wales
had to offer for the use of £2,500.000. And
N. S. Whales had to give the underwriters
£1 ss. for every £lOO lent (the Board’s
flotation expenses were 7s. 3d. per £100),
the underwriters are loaded with 55 per-
cent. of the loan, and the stock is quoted at a
discount of £1 10s. per £lOO (the Mel-
bourne discount was no more than £1).
There is a moral lurking on the premises
somewhere. Poor old loan-shickered N. S.
Wales never reduces its debt.
N. S. Wales Premier Storey says gloomily
that he fears he may be asked to pay 8
per cent, for his next loan. As the under-
writers have had to take up 55 per cent,
of his 6£ per cent. London loan, and as
there are over £25,000,000 of old loans fall-
ing due in the next three years for the State
to be squeezed over. John begins to feel
uncomfortable. It wasn’t without thought
for the future, and with memories of the
dreadful cold wind that hit Theodore in
London, that John recently prodded his Ex.
Davidson into pouring those loyal messages
into London.
From the Federal Gallery :
The increase of screw hasn’t made Federal mem-
bers any more attentive to their duties. Resuming
last Thursday, after six weeks’ spell, the Reps, mus-
tered a little over half their number, which quickly
diminished to about a dozen in the evening. The
proceeding's were largely taken up with immaterial
matters punctuated by persiflage, especially when
Tudor, on the second reading of the Tariff Bill,
brought up the delicate subject of corsets. The
mention of the word provoked a circus, and there
were a lot of labored quips on a subject which is
now too frayed and dog-eared to be even introduced
at a bagman’s smoke-night. But, the members would
AFTER FRESH PASTURES.
JOHN BULL: “H’m, the more bricks I throw the harder he goes at it!”
have their little jokes, because they had nothing else
to do. The Senate, meeting- to swear in new mem-
bers and elect a President, found the routine so ex-
hausting that it had to adjourn for another three
weeks. The only thing that spoils their rest is the
boredom of having to come in and sign for their
weekly pittance.
Vic. Assembly members are to get no extra
pay this session, but Premier Lawson has
allowed them to understand that if they are
good he will ask the electors, when he is
seeking a further lease of power, to consent
to the £3OO a year (fixed over 40 years
ago) being raised. He is to get a Cabinet
decision on the extent of the rise to be
asked. Members themselves, or 90 per cent,
of them, want £5OO. While he is about it
Lawson might also ask the electors to con-
sent to a reduction of the size of the
Assembly to. say, 48 members* There are 65,
now. and the saving, one way and another,
would amount to £12.000 a year—quite suffi-
cient to cover the extra £2OO aske'd for.
Hobart Marine Board has been advised
by its counsel that the Local Wages Boards
Act cannot be made to apply to it, as it is
not carrying on any “industrial manufac-
turing or trading enterprises.” So the
Board has resolved to take no notice of the
recent award fixing the minimum wage of
clerks. This apparently means that the*mat-
ter will be tested in the Courts, with the
Government suing a body to which it has
delegated certain of its functions; and the
taxpayers will foot the bill no matter which
side wins. Then, after the money has been
wasted, Parliament will probably say that
the decision doesn’t interpret its intentions,
and will put through a brief amending bill.
In a lawyer-ridden age nobody ever thinks
of asking Parliament to clear up these
doubts itself.
A fine example of fiscal consistency was
given the other day by the Cockies’ Conven-
tion at Port Fairy (Vic.). One minute it
passed a fierce resolution demanding free ad-
mission of all agricultural implements; the
next it demanded an increase in the duty on
onions from 30s. to £6 an onion. Some fine
Protectionist arguments were used against
leaving this valuable industry in danger of
being swamped by cheap-labor onions, but
only one speaker had sufficient sense of humor
to point out that what was sauce for the
onion was sauce for the hoe.
N. S. Wales Labor Conference enthusias-
tically side-tracked a proposal for a com-
pulsory apprenticeship Act. It referred the
matter to some future Trade Union Confer-
ence—which was an effective way of shunt-
ing it. Speakers alleged that an increase
of apprentices would supply employers with
a surplus of “scabs” during industrial
trouble —as if unskilled learners could fill
tradesmen’s jobs, and as if the apprentices
wouldn’t most likely be just as loyal union-
ists as their elders. Meantime hundreds of
unskilled unionists are worrying the soul out
of Premier Storey to provide them with State-
made, semi-charity jobs, largely because
there are not enough tradesmen to do the
skilled work which would give the unskilled
.toiler a look-in.
The Federal Government, though it yielded
to clamor and gave the Huns Hirschfeld
and Jerger a new hearing, stuck at
last to the order of deportation, and the
insolent demand for a jury trial as a matter
of right was turned down. If a Government,
especially a people’s Government, can’t send
the uninvited alien, especially the hostile
alien, out of its house without alleging any-
thing more than that it doesn’t want him in
'the house, then it doesn’t own the house.
The uninvited alien owns it.
On the day Sydney got definite word
that, though the latest N.S.W. loan offered
in London carried 64 p.c., only 45 p.c. of
it was applied for, it also got some informa-
tion about the first aerial post—from Lis-
more and Casino to Tenterfield. So far the
service has been a success, six hours being
saved in the mail-journey to Sydney. And
bang goes part of the earnings of the rail-
ways, in which, in N. S. Wales alone, over
£80,000,000 of borrowed money bas been
sunk! Yet, though every other business
knows that it must scrap its machinery as
it becomes obsolete, not a farthing has been
put into a sinking fund to pay off the debt
on railways that are just as likely to become
obsolete as anything else; nor is any allow-
ance made for a sinking fund in the esti-
mates on which interested politicians seek
to justify new railways. The inevitable
result, of course, is a succession of growing
deficits with State taxation which has trebled
in 10 years, and threatens to be six times
as much in 1921 as it was when the century
opened.
Centralisation can be just as mad in
Queensland as anywhere else. When a Rock-
hampton child is supposed to have dip.
the swab has to be sent over 400 miles to
the bloated capital in the south-east for
bacteriological examination. The return
journey takes about a week, and occasion-
ally it is 13 weeks before the decision is
known. And sometimes it is never known,
because the tubes containing the swabs get
broken in transit. Of course, the 10 local
doctors are quite incapable of doing tin-
work. At least, Centralisation says so.
A demand that the Government should
“resume” 8,000,000 acres in the N.S.W.
Western Division for closer settlement is
said to be receiving powerful support at
Coljarendabri, Brewhrrina, Walgett, Muu-
gindi, Goodooga and Angledool. Doubtless
if the Government raised a gentle financial
breeze to "resume” with, and did a half-
gale of borrowing to “settle” the new people
with, there would be a pleasant temporary
bustle at Collarendabri and a spending of
money at Mungindi, and a coining and going
at Angledool. And even if the Ma State
burst over the transaction the report might
not be heard for a long- time out at Angh-
dool, where the world is wide, and there is
rabbit to eat.
Sydney City Council has itself to blame
for most of the hostile criticism of its ten-
tative decision to spend £7(1,000 on a
Southern coal-mine and much more on water-
supply and development. Only the adverse
report of the technical head of the electrical
department which was to use the coal was
made known ; other reports in the CounttH's
possession were withheld. The Council is
one of the largest consumers of coal in N.
S. Wales—next to the railways the largest
consumer—and that it should have its own
mine, and cut out the various middlemen, is
sound business. Further, on the Council’s
undertaking thousands of industrial concerns
depend for light and power; and it is from
a national point of view most important
that that light and power should be avail-
able at the lowest possible cost. If the
Council is honest about producing that
result it will take all sorts of care that it
concludes the best bargain; wherefore it
will make public all its reports and give
ample time for their discussion. Among other
things this may unearth other offers.
What’s the limit of a principle, if it has
any limit? The Metropolitan Gas Co.
(Melb.) .said that it was fighting for a prin-
ciple (arbitration) when it declined to pay
the 14s. a day demanded by the gasworkers;
but it offered lid. a day more than the
12s. Id. which Higgins, J., said he could
have granted had he been adjudicating on
Knibbs’s latest figures. Is it to be under-
stood that no principle is infringed so long
as something under an extra bob a day is
involved ?
As the Act stands, it will take a three-
fifths majority to carry no-license in Vic-
toria, but the Prohibitionists are saying that
Premier Lawson “has practically pledged
himself to have the measure repealed so that
a bare majority will suffice.” Lawson may
pledge himself until he is black in the face,
but he can’t pledge Parliament. The alter-
ation suggested would make the sex that
doesn’t lean over bar counters or hang-
round clubs mistress of the situation, and
an attempt to carry it at the last moment
would unquestionablyffains it ought to.
Woman’s interference with man’s liberty to
take a drink is as wrong as man’s interfer-
ence with woman’s liberty to powder her
nose.
The leap in the price of overseas wheat,
which has not reached the top yet, has put
the N. S. Wales and Victorian pools in a
very poor position compared with those of
S. Aus. and Westralia. N. S. Wales hasn’t
any 1919 : 1920 wheat to export, but has to
import from the other States, and of the
12,000,000 bushels which Vic. grew last sea-
son only 2,000,000 will go overseas, the rest
being sold in Australia at a maximum
of 7s. Bd. a bushel. S. Aus. has about the
same quantity as Vic., aud will sell 9,000,000
overseas at 12s. or 13s. a bushel and some
perhaps at more. Westralia is on quite as
good a wicket as S. Aus., and that’s why it
has kicked against helping out drought-
stricken N. S. Wales. The Wheat Board
saw two years ago that something of the
kind might come along, and proposed to
meet it by pooling overseas and local
receipts, striking an average to apply all
round. But N. S. Wales spoilt the idea by
refusing to come into line, and once again
its habit of being a nark has landed it in
the soup.
THE PACIFISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sydney Trades and Labor Council recently issued a
cfeelaration in favor of pacifism. At a' subsequent
meeting one delegate called another a scab, and a
fight began which spread- to “a general m&lee,” at
the height of which the meeting was adjourned.
’Twas half-a-hundred Labor heads
Who sang their “Solidarity,”
And voiced the praise of Trotsky’s Reds
With emphasis and clarity;
It was a touching- sight to see
Their sterling unanimitee.
They cheered, as if to wake the dead,
The Moscow- International;
To put your country first, they said,
Was vulgar and irrational,
And Digger Bill should drop his gun
And hug his relative, the Hun.
To fight upon a battlefield.
They held it sheer insanity ;
In war your duty is to yield,
In proof of your humanity:
For when the victor sees you squirm,
. He, too, will turn into a worm.
“The pacifist will be supreme ;
The world will have a birth again,”
They yelled. Then someone changed the theme
And brought them down to earth again.
The Trades and Labor mob, said he,
Would spiflicate the A.L.P.
And that was how the strife arose
That broke up our society;
Bach comrade smote the other’s nose
And all was contrariety:
Peace is a noble thing to teach —-
But never practise what you preach!
N.S.W.
w.


THAT TRIFLE— THE INDEMNITY.
THE HUN (tearfully): “But, mein Gott, how can I pay der money ven I aindt got it?”
THE OTHERS: “You’ve got a pair of hands —as they did the mischief, let them pay for it. And while you’re about it, put away that sword; you might cut somebody with it again.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered Krand.
Producers of Lead in the following: forms—
Kenned Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following: Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Oretfc Slags, etc.,
containing: Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKBLL, Manager. T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS. E.C. 2
A. ,T. SMITH, London Manager and Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: C 2 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELL.AMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout, the Empire.
aui*i3iao
aiiuosweg
laqouoiM
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel/’ ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Robert Harper and Co. (Melb.), whole-
sale drygoods merchants: —
Reserves
(assets
Dividends. include
, A N £BO,OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Old. To Re- Good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 6 p.c. 4A p.c. serves, will).
1914.. £17,084 £1671 £14,400 £291 £722 £7,638
Unexplained net additions . . 4,692 12,330
7 p.c. 5J p.c.
1915.. 29,380 8400 16,800 340 3,840 16,170
Written off, £3955 . . . . . . 12,215
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. 42,349 8400 19,200 496 ]
Voted to Employees’ Profit Shar- >■ 4,253 16,468
ing Fund, £10,000.. .. ]
7 p.c. 5J p.c.
1917.. 29,838 8400 16,800 434 4,204 20,672
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1918.. 39,517 9450 19,200 496 10,371 31,043
1919.. 39,105 10,500 19,200 496 8,909 39.952
1920.. 45,808 10,500 19,200 496 15,612 55,564
This 55-year-old concern was passed over- to
a public co. seven years ago, when it had
reached a point at which the old pro-
prietors decided that they could do with
some outside capital. The public’s interest,
however, was confined to an issue of 7 p.c.
cum. prefs., the whole of the ordinaries going
to the old firm. What matters most, then,
is the security and dividend-prospects of these
prefs. They have put up £150,000, and 7
p.c. on that lot calls for £10,500 per annum.
Latest profits were more than four times that
amount, while every penny of the £150,000
was easily represented by the surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities (including mort-
gages on properties). The position of the
prefs. is thus very snug, though 7 p.c. is
nowadays not nearly so good a return as it
was when the money was first put into the
business. The old proprietors are receiving
only 8 p.c. on their £240.000 share interest;
but the actual return is somewhat better
than it looks, for when they turned the busi-
ness over to a public co. they received 80,000
fully-paid ordinaries for goodwill. Un-
doubtedly the co.’s interests in five Austra-
lian centres possess a considerable goodwill
value, and so long as the concern is in
capable hands this hypothetical asset would
continue to be worth a good deal in the
event of the Harpers deciding to drop out.
Regarding goodwill as intangible, however,
there still remains £24,486 of capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles. But the margin over
and above dividend-distributions during the
past six years has been so good (divs. were
kept down to 6 and 7 p.c. for several years
when operations had not proved so profitable
as previously) that practically £48.000 of
reserves has been accumulated. Which of
course makes the earning of interest on capi-
tal easier than it was to begin with.
Robert Harper and Co.’s progress can be
set out in another way:—
„ 1914. 1919. 1920.
Mortgages £27,500 £35,733 £31,900
Deposits 36,775 31,318 30,198
Overdraft 67,367 72,103 21,675
Sundry creditors . . . . 42,620 94,014 127,084
Freeholds 109,602 135,682 139,655'
Plant, etc 96,808 81,769 81,274
Leaseholds 1,110 400 300
Stock 150.564 234,710 174,525
Sundry debtors . . . . 125,607 145,856 200,273
Cash and investments . . 121 22,367 22,487
At the 1914 balance the surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities amounted
to £102,030; at March 31 last it had in-
creased to £186,428. Meantime the book
value of fixed assets has moved from £207,520
to £221,229. New capital to the extent of
£33,530 got in during the period has helped
this expansion, while £17,946 reserved for
an employees’ profit-sharing scheme has not
been regarded gs a liability in these calcula-
tions. Harpers inaugurated a co-partner-
ship scheme years ago, and apart from the
£17,946 held in trust, evidently the whole of
the £lO,OOO of “B” capital (on which 6 p.c.
is paid) represents employees’ share interests.
The Manufacturers’ Mutual Insur-
ance Association, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus to
Policy-
April, Profit. Dividends. holders. Reserves.
1915. .£5,421 10 p.c. = £155 £2530 £2,570
1916.. 7,263 10 „ „ 172 4593 5,068
1917.. 10,641 10 „ „ 198 6832 8,679
1918.. 12,435 10 „ „ 228 7107 13,779
1919.. 11,330 10 ~ „ 261 5247 19,601
1920.. 15,806 10 „ „ 403 7109 27,895
The accounts show the year’s profit as £7515 :
but that was after reserving £3991 for unex-
pired risks. £3400 for contingencies, and set-
ting aside in a general reserve fund £9OO
War Loan interest. In addition, £350 was
paid over to the Chamber of Manufactures,
which sponsored the concern. It was estab-
lished to carry the workmen’s compensation
risks of members of the Chamber at cost
price. But many things have happened since
the co. wrote its first policies. The old Act
was three years ago superseded by a new
one which provided much wider benefits to
employees. Almost simultaneously the pro-
prietary offices reduced tariffs to such an
extent that nowadays there is no longer any
fat profit (and in some lines hardly any at
all) in the business. Along with the others
the Manufacturers’ Mutual adopted the new
rates. Gradually new co-operating insurers
have linked up, and during the past year
the word “Accident” was dropped from the
co.’s title; it is evidently now writing
other lines besides workmen’s compensation.
The result is that the year’s net premium in-
come has shown an increase of 39 p.c. on
the 1919 figures. Here is the underwriting
record from the beginning:—
April, Premiums. Losses. Exes.
1915 .. £6,854 £619 £857
1916 .. 11,023 2,291 1635
1917 . 16,487 3,722 2384
1918 . . 23,870 8,703 3352
1919 . . 26,472 11,602 4370
1920 .. 36,447 15,434 6454
With claims taking 42.3 p.c. of net pre-
miums and costs under IS p.c., there was
thus a surplus equal to nearly two-fifths
of net premium income. But this is not
necessarily all true profit, for all current
policies had varying periods to go before
the premiums thereon could be definitely
regarded as profit. To meet any claims
which might arise in this way, the manage-
ment reserved £3991 of the surplus and also
set aside a further £3400 in a contingency
reserve. The 10 p.c. div. and the £7109
distributed as a bonus on policies does not,
therefore, represent the full extent of the
benefits accruing to shareholding-policy-
holders if things work out as well as might
be expected, for in addition £8294 has been
tacked to reserves.
To date the Manufacturers' Mutual has
handled £121.147 of net. premiums, disclosed
a profit of over £64.000, and distributed by
way of interest on capital, bonuses on poli-
cies and gifts to the parent Chamber nearly
£36.000, leaving on hand £27,895 of reserves.
Paid capital is only £4330. and interest on
investments alone practically provides four
times the amount required to pay 10 p.c.
dividends. The funds have been excellently
placed: of total assets of £48,936 at April
30 no less than £45,787 was represented by
public securities, deposits and cash ; sundry
debtors owed £2528, and odds and ends
accounted for the remaining £621. Pre-
cisely how much better off is the co-operat-
ing policy-holder in this concern is not clear
from the accounts, for no hint is given as
to the proportion which the £7109 of bonuses
bears to total premiums. When the co.
started it had to go outside the Common-
wealth to arrange a re-insurance treaty, and
the amounts thus laid-off are not disclosed.
But besides whatever is returned by way of
bonuses over and above the allowances made
by Associated offices, shareholders are acquir-
ing a rapidly increasing interest in reserved
profits. The concern has been very success-
ful, _ chiefly because of the backing it has
received from the Chamber of Manufactures,
which made it easy to write business and
collect premiums at small cost. The result
is that its expense rate is only about one-
half of the average in most large offices, and
that means a saving of practically one-fifth
of net premium income. In other words,
practically one-half of its underwriting pro-
fits represents the savings effected in ex-
penses alone.
* * * *
Heiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Defti it
, Dividends Reduce (Good-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Deficit, will).
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
e- 60,000
1915.. 12,289 6 p.c.=3220 8 p.c.= 4,800 4269 55,731
1916.. 8,858 6 „ ~3220 6 „ „ 3,600 2038 53,693
1917.. 9,793 6 „ ~3220 8 „ „ 4,800 1773 51,920
Goodwill items added. £B7 . . 52,007
1918.. 9,988 6 p.c.=3220 8 p.c.= 4,800 1968 50,039
Goodwill item added, £5 .. 50,044
1919.. 13,470 6 p.c.=3370 10 p.c.= 6,000 4100 45,944
Goodwill item added, £65 .. 46,009
1920.-22,432 6 p.c.=3430 20 p.c.=l 2,000 7002 39,007
This is the last that will be heard of this
co. under its present title, for a day or two
ago the final touches were given to a recon-
struction scheme which provides for the old
sign being replaced by “Home Recreations,
Ltd.” The Heiron and Smith combination
was mostly associated with losing-hazards
and long-jennies, and though over six years
ago it started as a public co. by amalgamat-
ing two old billiards interests (H. and S.
and Alcock’s) with a high-class furnishing
connection, its scope has so widened that
nowadays the green baize is merely a sort
of back-cloth to the business. A couple of
years ago musician Pogonowski wandered
into the co.’s showrooms, and among other
things casually mentioned that he had in-
vented something new in the way of talking-
machines. The live management was not
slow to examine its merits, and from that
chance meeting has developed a large turn-
over of all-Australian musical instruments^
which are declared by experts to be equally
as good as. and in some respects superior
to. imnorted machines. In addition, Heiron
and Smith, Ltd., has during the past few
•' ears acquired and developed other patents ;
and the co.’s business has so expanded that
the directors consider reconstruction the
best means of raising new capital to fin-
ance factory extensions and push interests
in other States.
Of the present nominal capital of £120,000
( half 0 p.c. prefs. and the rest ordinaries) all
but £181)0 of prefs.. has been got in. Home
Recreations. Ltd., is to have a nominal capi-
tal of a quarter of a million, made up of
150,000 8 p.c. prefs., participating with the
100,000 ordinaries up to 10 p.c. At the
March balance the accounts showed £79,150
of net tangible assets, but the co. is now
revealing inner reserves which bring the total
to £90,704. The reconstruction is being
effected .on the basis of one fully-paid 8 p.c.
pref. being issued for each £1 of net assets.
The 58,164 old 6 p.c. prefs. do well by
securing a similar number of these new 8
p.c. prefs. participating up to 10 p.c. The
old Heiron and Smith goodwill interests were
represented by 00.000 £1 ordinaries; and a
similar number of ordinaries are issued by
the new co. in exchange, together with
.12,540 bonus prefs., representing the surplus
of tangible assets over and above old capital.
New in States other than N.
S. Wales bring in £15,000 of cash for a
start, and in consideration for rights
secured 10,000 free ordinaries are exchanged.
T , h, 'ne}'; co. thus starts with a paid capital
of representing net tangible assets,
and ti o,ooo of ordinaries wholly represented
by goodwill, patents, rights, etc.' This hypo-
thetical asset, however, does not include one
penny for the goodwill value of the Salonola
music- phone, which is now the co.’s biggest
line, and the success of which has certainly
strengthened the goodwill asset.
To pay 10 p.c. all round on the new capi-
tal would call for £17,570, and, as the intro-
ductory table shows, last year’s disclosed
net profits easily covered that. So with
the assistance of the £15,000 of new money
and the widened interests prospects seem
very bright so long as selling conditions con-
tinue favorable. Without detracting from
the management’s success in manufacturing
new lines, it must not be overlooked that
because of abnormal conditions the public
never before has, been in a position to pur-
chase so much entertainment as during the
past coupl% of years, and that these condi-
tions have helped profits. At present it is
impossible to gauge the public’s power of
purchasing luxuries when conditions become
normal—or, rather, when the effects of huge
loan spendings wear off. Rut the fat profits
of the past couple of years suggest that
even if sales did fall off considerably the co.
should still be able to give old holders a
good return on their investment. Much of
the co.’s trading is on the hire-purchase
system ; at March 31 book debts, less a con-
tingency reserve, the extent of which is not
disclosed, but which has been considerably
strengthened during the recent prosperous
run, amounted to £73,185. Besides the capi-
tal now being got in further funds will
be required shortly to place the co. in a
position to take full advantage of its new
opportunities.
* * # *
Ralmain Co-operative Society. Ltd.
(Sydney) :
Bonuses on Re-
Profits. Dividends. Purchases, serves.
Jan., 1914.. £8,907 £OBl £7,704 £2498
July, 1914.. 9,203 730 8,321 2044
Jan., 1915.. 11,500 822 10,405 2917
Sept., 1915.. 14,312 1218 12,547 3404
March, 1910.. 9,989 953 9,017 3483
Sept., 1910.. 12,190 1023 10,888 3702
March, 1917.. 12,081 1122 11,133 3588
Sept., 1917.. 14,233 1211 12,393 4217
March, 1918.. 14,403 1289 12,745 4580
Sept., 1918.. 10,181 1428 14,070 4003
March, 1919.. 13,924 1590 12,514 4483
Sept., 1919.. 15,150 1592 13,424 4017
March, 1920.. 17,291 1576 15,652 4080
This co-operative society had its beginnings
37 years ago, but has apparently been estab-
lished on its present basis only since 1902,
when it registered under the N.S.W. Building
and Co-operative Societies’ Act of 1901. Dur-
ing recent years it.s interests have expanded
very rapidly, until now Balmain is merely
the headquarters, with eight businesses widely
spread in other suburbs. Since H.C.L. has
made it more difficult for wage-earners to
make ends meet, the .society has attracted so
much attention that there are now over twice
as many shareholders as there were only six
years ago, while in response to promised sup-
port two new branches are about to be estab-
lished. This shows the progress made since
1914, the sales figures representing 12 months’
trading:—
Paid Number of
Capital. Shareholders. Sales.
1914.. .. £28,964 5,263 £122,349
1915.. .. 35,687 6,538 153,537
1917.. .. 48,126 8,964 225,017
1918.. .. 55,775 10,402 255,839
1919. . . . 68,329 11,664 299,872
1920.. .. 67,419 12,106 308,740
Groceries are, of course, the Society’s prin-
cipal line, but it also mixes boots (and re-
pairs them), ironmongery and crockery,
drapery, millinery, tobacco, confectionery
and furniture (by order, direct from manu-
facturers), and it runs its own tailoring de-
partment, a bakery (£17,828 of the past
half’s turnover of £157,519 represented sales
of bread and pastry), has an arrangement
with a dentist by which co-operators receive
rebates, and is an agent for an Australian
insurance co.
The main object of the society is, of
course, to supply co-operators at as near cost
price as possible, and so large have been
the distributions of profits during the past
six years that while about £155,000 has been
passed out by way of dividends and bonuses,
only a little over £2OOO lias been added to
the reserves of the concern. This policy
has handicapped the management at a time
when the cost of all stocks has increased so
rapidly. Still, new co-operators have brought
in much new capital, the management now
having the control of £67,419, or 2& times
the amount held six. years ago. Efforts are
now being made to strengthen the con-
cern by making the minimum share-holding
£5 instead of the present £2. This is a
wise move, and it will not: hurt co-operators,
who can devote their bonuses to acquiring
the" additional share interest. This, by the
way, is the usual method of securing shares,
an initial little Is. tkl. being all that is re-
quired to secure membership. How much
better-off the consumer is by being a co-
operator in this society depends chiefly on
prices charged: and on that point the com-
mittee of management declares that members
“get only the very best of everything at
prices which will stand the test of compari-
son.” In that case,, besides efficient service,
the co-operator is the better off to the extent
of the 2s. in the £ the society is paying ou
purchases, and also to the extent of the
interest (limited to 5 p.c. by the rules) on
the capital. The 2s. in the £ rebate is
a big item to many a family in the suburbs
in which the society trades, and in this way
the concern is doing a very fine service.
The accounts are admirably presented:
figures.are produced to record the operations
in every department at each store, and prac-
tically every penny of income and expendi-
ture is detailed. Incidentally, the accounts
show that in 1914 at Balmain expenses in
the grocery dept, absorbed Is. 74d. in the
£, and profits worked out at 2s. 4id. ; nowa-
days the figures are Is. IOJd. and 2s. 24d.
respectively, which explains why only
a 2s. in the £ bonus is paid now compared
with a former 2s. 4d„ and, for a time, 2s.
6d. The feature of trading is the extent
of the turnover in proportion to capital and
the size of liabilities. On a capital of
£67,419 and reserves of about £22,600 (be-
fore payment of divs. and bonuses), during
the past year sales totalled over £308,000.
while at the balance under £9OOO was owing
to sundry creditors. This was possible only
because trading is on a purely cash basis,
the only debtors being the bakery customers,
who, no doubt, settle weekly. This records
the progress during the past six years from
a balance-sheet point of view:—
1914. 1920.
Capital £28,964 £67,419
Liabilities .. .. .. .. 626 8,972
Property, etc. .. . . . . 19,971 41,475
Stocks 15,759 51,591
Cash, investments, book debts, etc. 4,879 5,994
The society is thus very snug. A feature of
its constitution, however, is that capital is
not fixed, shares being withdrawable —one
week’s notice is required for sums up to £5.
two weeks’ up to £lO and an additional week
for each further £10; but the management
is protected from the disasters of a possible
rush by a rule which gives it power to
suspend payment for any period it may
care to fix. In other words, if co-operators
suddenly decided to shut up shop, the man-
agement could spar for time to arrange liqui-
dation.
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd., which
registered eight years ago with a capital of
24 millions, has reconstructed for 34 mil-
lions. Since it is a proprietary, details are
not disclosed, nor are accounts published.
Busiiells, Ltd. —This 25-year-old tea
business was first registered as a public co.
a little over eight years ago, nominal capital
being £50,000 and issued capital £23,550. It
has so expanded and the cost of stocks has
so increased that the old proprietary now
seeks further outside funds. The public is
invited to contribute 64,000 8 p.c. £1 cum.
prefs.; the old proprietors retain the ordi-
nary interests. The balance-sheet as at March
31 shows that against £197,655 of tangible
asssets (including properties, etc., as now
valued by outside experts) there were lia-
bilities of no less than £123,930. There were
thus net tangible assets with a book value
of £73,725. Goodwill (“trade-marks, secret
processes and blends formulae”) is included
at £45,000, but this item is of little concern
to prospective pref. holders. The new co.
pays £118,725 for the assets (tangible and
hypothetical) of the old one, £6OOO being
represented by former prefs., who are to
line up with the £64,000 of new prefs. The


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, vou are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. —Advt.
Engineers and mechanics will find that with G.F.
Malleable Fittings they can do their fittings quicker,
saving time, labor and money. G.F. Malleable Fit-
tings, made from best British iron, are lighter and
superior to wrought fittings—have perfect threads —
geometrically correct —true to sizes, which range from
Jin. to 6in. Over 6000 varieties. Sole Agents, Wm.
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [5
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the 'plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August, 1914: “The five miles 60.
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory.
They are giving good results. Yours taithfully,
(Sgd.) H. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Se”d for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian ,'ood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. —Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; failway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The manufacture of '‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.— l
Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. —Advt.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
INCREASED INTEREST.
The rate of interest on deposits
Has ken Increased to 4
UP TO THE LIMIT OF £5OO
on personal accounts. Friendly Societies, etc., will be allowed
3i per cent, on any excess abtoves £+soo.
Head Office, 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
per
cent.
■ AIHSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock, Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY 11. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
security for the prefs. is good, for there
will be £137,725 of net tangibles to protect
their £70,000. The prospectus is not com-
municative about profits, but last year’s
turnover was £493,853, nearly four times
the 1915 figures, while owing to increased
prices the first three months of the current
year indicate that sales this year will approx-
imate £BOO,OOO. Things would have to be
very bad if £137,725 of tangible assets in
this successful old tea business could not
earn the £5600 required for the prefs.’ div.
* * * <* _ -
As Cohen was cold to Attorney-General
Arthur Robinson in London, the Vic. Gov-
ernment has induced the local banks to under-
write half of the amount required to redeem
the bonds falling due in London on October
I. Of the total of £6,000,CK)0 maturing,
£550,000 is to be paid off from redemption
funds in hand. Even if 6 p.c. or a trifle more
ha.s to be paid, £2,725,000 is to.be raised in
London. The other £2,725,000, underwritten
after negotiations between Premier Lawson
and the Associated banks, has been placed
on the market at 5£ p.c. at par. As interest
is free, of Federal and State income taxes,
the price is about equal to what will have
to be given in London, where there is no
exemption from such imposts.
Twelve months ago The Bulletin re-
marked that the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia would have to consider the. matter
of getting jn fresh funds. At June 30 last
year it was holding about £7 ss. of the pub-
lic’s money for each £ of its own, and that
did not provide much room for expansion.
The directors have now decided to consult
shareholders on the matter on July 15.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., recently decided
that it could no longer delay its construc-
tion programme, so orders were placed for
several new boats. Now the financing is
being arranged by the issue of 113,333 new
ordinaries at par., and by calling up 10s.
on each of the 100,000 shares at present
paid to 10s. This will bring in £163,333.
The signatories to the registration papers
of Australian Fertilisers Proprietary, Ltd.,
are J. M. and K. Niall, W. L. Baillieu,
J. L. Wharton, R. G. Casey and Kelso King.
The Electrolytic Refining Co., of Port
Kernbla, has the credit of inaugurating this
half-million project. Since Laloki, the most
promising colt in Collins House, is to supply
pyrites, wider interests than those above-
mentioned would seem to bp enrolled. The
talk is that Elliott Bros’, superphosphate
works are to be acquired, and there is a
yarn that George Shirley, Ltd., is linking
up. If these concerns are to be absorbed,
what a solid group of fertiliser interests will
be bunched around Port Kernbla! Maybe
the float is the direct result of Hughes’s
Nauru mandate, but if so nothing is being
whispered on that subject. Anyhow, the
co. never will have much to say, for it is
being established as a Droprietary. The
time may come when its farmer-customers
would like it better if it were otherwise.
Perhaps Cuthbert’s balance-sheet explains
why the Commonwealth Bank withdrew its
support. Twelve months ago the Board got
power to call up another 10s. per share,
increasing the 279,596 share's from 20s. to
30s. Debts then, exclusive of £55,000 of
debentures, were £120,500, the two liquid
assets being stocks, £24,606, and copper on
hand, £37,513. The previous six months'
work had resulted in a P, and L. debit of
£22,403. Six months later 3s. 6d. per share
had been called up, debts were down to
£71,522, stocks were about the same, but
copper stood at only £476- above the amount
advanced against it, so that poor progress
had been made. Forfeited shares figured in
the balance-sheet at £14,785 ; and thanks to
developments at the Kalkadoon and the high
price of copper this scrip was taken off the
hands of the Board practically for calls
due. The smelter ran smoothly during the
next term, so at the end of February Cuth-
bert’s position was as follows: —
Assets—
Stocks on hand .. .. .. £19,120
Sundry debtors .. .. .. 2,710
Expected surpluses on copper .. 12,534
£34,364
Liabilities —
Deferred creditors .. ..£20,932
Sundry creditors .. . . 10,258
Bank 15,097
-£46,287
Excess liabilities (apart from debentures), £11,923
At the close of the half-year the co. had on
hand 1042 tons blister copper, none of which
had been realised. Now the total is about
1700 tons. The copper on hand in February
went into the accounts at £BO per ton.' As
the market price lately has been under £9O,
the question is whether the valuation of
metal for balance-sheet purposes has not
been too high. Can copper be won and real-
ised from North Queensland at £BO per ton
to-day? General-manager S. Harris has had
a tough time this year with an uncertain cop-
per market, labor as doubtful as ever and
explosives almost unobtainable. The result
has been that ore reserves had .to be called
upon. The Cuthbert crowd were fortunate
in unearthing not only a big fair-grade
formation at the Orphan lease but in open-
ing up 6 p.c. ore at 450 ft. in the parent
mine before the Commonwealth Bank grew
cold. When Cuthbert gets into its stride
again the same staff will call for £12,000
a year more for wages and it will have to
contend with higher railway and shipping
freights. This means that higher prices or
lower costs are necessary to get the co.
out of the ditch. Estimated ore reserves are
160,500 tons containing 10,550 tons copper.
* * * *
It is only a little over six months since
Federation and Mt. Owen, a float amalga-
mating several gold shows scattered in the
Gloucester district (N.S.W.), was intro-
duced to the public; and though the shares
have not been officially on ’Change, a wild
gamble has been proceeding on the strength
of happenings in Mt. Owen. What there
was to justify the 4s. 6d. shares changing
hands up to ":18s. (giving the properties a
value of over £112.000) —and which some of
the directors openly declared was a bargain
price—was not apparent. J. Carthew, who
had been the Mines Department district in-
spector, but had dropped out, reported a sft.
lode at the 44ft. level, from which assays
of over 19oz. had been got, and at the shaft
bottom (66ft.) he talked of having got a
per ton sample over a width of
sft." He thereupon “congratulated share-
holders upon the fact that they had a very
valuable mine.”
Since then the directors have not been
at all talkative, and have shown no inclina-
tion to confound the bears and others who
cast doubts on the glittering show. A while
ago, however, the Mines Department took a
hand, and chief-inspector j. B. Jaquet and
his lieutenant, V. Farrier, had a look at
the co.’s properties. Having discovered that
the outcrop had not been traced much be-
yond the width of the shaft, they proceeded
to view the riches made visible by only
65ft. of sinking and 39ft. of driving. They
discovered the good values in a 2in. to 6in.
vein, picked samples, giving high assays.
But in the face at the bottom level values
ranged from under 2dwt. to only a little
over sdwt., pay values being confined to a
patch in the shaft. They sum up the
position by declaring their belief that the
rich shoot “wifi not extend in a horizontal
direction very far beyond the end of the
present levels.” Those in control must surely
have known what was occurring at 66ft..
yet while the gamble proceeded not a word
lias been whispered as to the true state of
affairs. The Mt. Owen deposit occurs in
serpentine slate contact, about db treacher-
ous an occurrence as the State possesses.
The Federation has been worked spas-
modically for about 15 years with varying
results, and, as the Mines Department
officials put it, the show “has scarcely yet
been proved to be a payable one.” Extensive
faulting necessitates much prospecting and
incidental heavy expenditure. However, a
recent find at 75ft. provides some encourage-
ment for further prospecting. On the IXL.
held under option, a shaft is down 48ft.,
disclosing a favorable fissure vein, but
though it is merely an infant prospecting
show, Jaquet and Farrier declare it to be
the co.’s “most important mine.” A 10-hd.
battery is going up on the Federation, and
one good crushing is assured. Where
future payable battery feed is to come from
neither the directors nor the Mines Depart-
ment can guess.
The latest in tin is an effort to revive the
Jingellic field* on the Upper Murray River
(N.S.W.), by getting Adelaide interested,
and a co. with a capital of £125,000 in 10s.
shares is proposed. The vendors get a par-
cel of 85,000 paads, but no cash, 65,000 shares
are to go to reserve and 100,000, paid to ss.
for a start, are to provide working capital.
On the strength of what has been sighted in
two shafts —one down 210 ft. and the other
110 ft. —c<re reserves betwen the two work-
ings are -set down at 60,000 tons. This, it is
said, shogild yield “a handsome profit,” and
“warrants the immediate erection of a treat-
ment plaint.” If Adelaide had had half the
tin experience of the rest of the continent it
wouldn’t be so positive of anything of the
kind till it had the two shafts connected and
a lot more than the ordinary sampling done,
for there is nothing more tricky than lode
tin. Sampsofii, the old B. H. British mine-
manager, has; had a look at the show and re-
ports that a face 10ft. wide at 210 ft. (the
bottom of Nb. 1 shaft) goes 2.19 p.c. tin
and .89 p.c. tungstic acid. This mixture
is what probably knocked out the old
.Jingellic crotwd, but metallurgist A. E.
O’Brien, of I «aunceston, has no doubts about
concentration,, and claims that he can achieve
a recovery of’ 75 p.c. of gross values, and,
further, do tbje whole trick for 15s. per ton
crudes. The ore has a big sprinkling of
arsenic, which-, is to be roasted out and made
to contribute to the choice results that
O’Brien talks of. If h« can do what he
states there is plenty of room for his ener-
gies up Torringtdn way, where tin-wolfram
deadbeats are to Jbe« got very cheap.
* #■ * *
Six months a get shares in Hampton
Properties, Ltd., b ecarne popular on the
strength of reports that the co. had the
makings of several mines on Block 50. a
substantial interest in the Celebration and
a lot of loose cash. Since then an ominous
silence has been preserved regarding the
supposed mines, the Celebration interest has
shrunk considerably in value, and a big bite
has been taken out of the funds in hand.
Consequently the market has tumbled.
Whether the co.’s interests on Block 50
will ever be worth much only further
development can determine. If they are
not, the co. may still have a winner in Block
45. This holding is more than double the
size of Block 50, and on it, about six miles
east of the Celebration, is a promising-look-
ing belt of ironstone country along which
gold has been found for over half a mile.
Boulder No. 1 holds an option on one lease
on the line of lode, and Hampton Proper-
ties is prospecting another. Costeening on
the latter has exposed an ore body which
assays just under the half-ounce over a
width of 17ft. Another costeen has cut the
cap of the same deposit about 100 ft. away.
Generally the prospects are good.
* * * *
Recently Celebration (W.A.) started to
put down a large ma’inshaft to the sul-
phides, and, imbued with the notion that
this expense would not have been sanc-
tioned unless the Board was sure that it
was justified, buyers stepped in and livened
up the market. But they are likely to ex-
perience a long wait before results are
known, with probably little to cheer them
up meantime. It will probably take at
least six months to reach the required depth,
and another month or two to find and test
the lode if it is there. Everyone is hoping
for the best, but fhere are a lot who have
misgivings.
* * * *
Asam Kumbang’s monster dredge had
been at work but two months when the
accounts closed on Dec. 31 last, so only
£4402 came from tin won. The equipping
of Kumbang proved a most expensive under-
taking, and by the time the plant and acces-
sories had been installed their cost had
exceeded the paid capital of £75,000. So,
at the balance, the co. owed £56,517 to Kam-
pong, £7OOO to Austral Malay and £7922 to
others, a total of £71,439. During the first
four months of this year, however, it has
been producing 40 tons oxide per month,
which, sold in a boom market, has permitted
the management to wipe off £20,000 of its
debts; and Kampong has expressed its in-
tention of exercising its option over 25,000
shares at 255., which will reduce them a
further £31,250. Liabilities will then
amount to approximately £20,000, and
the directors consider the position sound
enough to pay a first Is. 6d. per share.
There will still remain much cleaning-up to
do. The £73,818 book-value of the dredge
is, of course, excessive, and this item is
to be written down rapidly out of early
profits if everything works out well; and,
further, the £13,928 representing accumu-
lated development expenditure is to be wiped
oil af once. The co. started with 490 acres,
but has acquired a further 355 acres; given
anything like decent prices 33 million cubic
yards of payable ground lies ahead. That
means 22 years’ work for the present dredge,
so the directors , contemplate putting a
second plant., probably of smaller capacity,
into commission when finances permit.
South Australian Oil Wells Co. has
issued another disappointing report and
balance-sheet. The borehole at Tanta-
noola (S.A.) has been drilled in sand from
1040 to 1620 feet in six months, not a very
creditable record. Casing of 6§in. is being
used to 1620 ft., and sin. will be used to pros-
pect at lower depths. Evidently the well
cannot be finished properly if at such a
shallow depth pipe so small in diameter
as sin. is being used. The report says
“Prospects are good,” but the directors pro-
bably had both eyes on the next threepenny
call. At 1320 ft. inflammable gas was met;
it smelt all right, but the drillers were not
ready with a flask to secure a taste for the
analysts. The expense of running the co.
is still far too high : of £2Oll of calls, £1249
was spent at the borehole, and £852 on man-
agement for the half-year.
* * * *
Daylesford is threatened with the closing
down of Ajax Central. The locals don’t
want this to happen till more work has been
done below 1500 ft. There a splash of gold
set them in a whirl till it cut out as quickly
as it had shown up. If the wish to get
deeper is sincere, all that is necessary is
for Daylesford to produce the money for
the work. Nuggetty Ajax is poking about
at its No. 7 level in clean country, and
knapping out a bit of ore at No. \ but
neither job is profitable, so calls come with
regularity. The field’s one mining cert,
nowadays is North Ajax, but even that
show cannot see far ahead.
Another shake of the old bones of the
Duke Extended (Yic.) is proceeding. That
cheery optimist, H. Nolan, who simply can-
not lose faith in the claim, and Tom
Proctor consider that pay wash can
he picked up in the eastern end of the
gutter towards the old Duke Consols boun-
dary. The miners corroborate, and talk of
putting wages into forfeited shares, so share-
holders are being rallied to produce the
necessary. # *
“K.”: The reason why the reserves of
the Rose, Thistle and Shamrock (Vic.J were
not set out (B. 17/6/’2O) was no doubt
that the co. does not know quite where it
stands regarding the ground it has been
working to the north. The picks have prac-
tically reached the boundary—there is talk
that the co. has even got beyond the line.
Anyhow, on April 13 one Wm. T. Wallace
pegged out a lease of 24 acres to the north,
which certainly embraces the reef lately
successfully worked by the R., T. and S. A
month later the co. over-pegged Wallace,
and the matter is to come before the Warden
at Bright for decision on the 9th inst.
Things looked blue enough at the Delo-
raine, in Adelaide’s Mount Lofty range, six
months ago, and now the story is told of
how every ounce of gold won during the past
half-year meant a loss of £2. The main
workings were left behind in May, and since
then the pick has brought only disappoint-
ment in the southern section. A little more
work i.s to be done there and on the. lode
showing north of the main workings, and if
payable stone does not show up at these
points the end of Deloraine is certain. In-
creases in the wages-bill would have hit the
co. hard, but the men, apparently realising
that a job at old award rates was better
than no job at all, did not press for higher
pay. „
(Continued on page 22.)


THE PHARISEE.
“Mr. Troup, the Farmers’ candidate in the forthcoming Ballarat election, is strongly opposed to the salary grab. Mr. McGrath (Labor) is steadfastly ‘trimming’ on the question, and Mr. Kerby (Nationalist) voted outright for the raid on the Treasury.”
FARMER TROUP: “O God, I thank Thee that I am not as these others are — at any rate until polling-day.”


>
n
Something NEW —and Better
—in Waterproof Macintoshes
The ordinary macintosh has the appearance of rubber and
a distinct odor of rubbef.
This special Peapes macintosh has the rubber-proofing
BETWEEN a double texture of strong, light material.
The coat has a distinctive mid-grey Tweed appearance while
smooth in finish. Buttons specially fastened at back as
well as sewn.
An excellent alternative to the now expensive Gabardine
Coats, with the special waterproof quality of a macintosh.
Style, as illustrated. Ready to wear.. .
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
Please state height and chest measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
£4/10/-
Miltonian
{specialties
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
A cents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
:r:..
E BROWN © SONS LONDON
AOENCJES • ALL • OVER • THE WORJLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v,f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably svith any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
THE MARTYR.
“She tried everything to get a dance with
the Prince.”
“Yes, she even danced twice with Billy
Hughes .”
“Spare Corp”: Paying for the transporta-
tion of ex-Diggers’ pommy fiancees to Aus-
tralia has all the uncertainty and excitement
of a lottery. In a recent case the officials
at the London end, having become wise
after the event, gravely notified by cable:
“Miss Helen Blazes, fiancee of No. Umpteen,
Private Tom Blank, has deserted a husband
and four children. Please inform soldier.” It
is possible that ex-Private Blank knew about
the lady’s matrimonial complications all the
time, and deceived the authorities in order
to help the woman to an escape ; or the in-
telligence may conceivably have blighted an
honest romance. There have been eases,
however, where the discovery that the “sol-
dier’s fiancee” was already married hap-
pened after she had tripped to the altar
again. In one instance the bride coyly
admitted to half the responsibility for six
kids in England ; but she argued shrilly that
as she had come to a new country the matri-
monial tie in the old land didn’t matter.
“Fag” on royalties and reactions
We used to sneer at old Tennyson and his “loyal
passion for our temperate kings.” Nobody sneers
now, because it isn’t fashionable. Loyalty is the
proper thing, and our most boisterous democrats sur-
render to it. Militants who urged the Australian
workers to boycott the Prince’s visit on the ground
that he was the emissary of an enslaving capitalism
rushed to his “functions” and beefed out “God Bless
the Prince of Wales.” Labor Premier Storey goes
into raptures about the young man, and announces
that his tour “has been utilised to the full by the
people of N. S. Wales to demonstrate their un-
swerving loyalty to his Majesty the King.” Lord-
Mayor Fitzgerald, who presided at the Mannix val-
edictory, from which the toast of the King was
omitted, protests almost tearfully that he attended
all the “functions.” It has some pleasing as well
as unlovely aspects, this outbreak of royalism, but
how much of it is superficial and how much goes
down to the root? If it is not a passing spasm of
sentiment, but is something in the blood, then the
race has changed- little in its new environment,
which means that Puritanism is as latent in its
composition as monarchism was, and will express
itself when the opportunity arrives, as monarchism
has done. Monarchism and Puritanism are a queer
compound, but they have existed among the English,
the Irish of the North and the Lowland Scots for
hundreds of years. Even Sinn Fein (largely run by
South-of-Ireland men of English descent) has a strong
Puritan basis: its Griffiths, Figgises and Whites are
dour young men who lead frugal and serious lives.
Australia is witnessing its monarchical reaction, and
the Puritanic principle will have its innings too.
And I prophesy that it will hit the women first.
* # * *
South Groperland is a clamp place in.
winter, and when sheets of rain fall, as has
happened this year, the rails have a habit of
spreading on the light and flimsy train-
track. And that was how the Itoyal car
came to leave the line hurriedly in the Big
Bush south of Bridgetown and fall grace-
fully over a low embankment, landing on
its side. The Prince and his party were
in it, hut nobody was hurt: on the con-
trary. 11.11. H. lit a cigar and announced,
with pardonable pride, that he had saved
the whisky. The Ministerial car also parted
company with the train, but Premier Mit-
chell (asleep as usual) was likewise un-
scathed. The only thing damaged was the
Heir-Apparent’s opinion of Westralia’s per-
manent and reproductive works.
* * * #
From a country school-teacher:—
Six years ago our Department established a school
for mentally deficient children at Fitzroy, Mel-
bourne. But it serves only the metropolitan area.
Vf't thpre are .few country schools that
have not at least one scholar who is men-
tally deficient. By that I do not mean
idiots. Often they are the butt of their
playmates, and if not very bad, are pes-
tered by unsympathetic or unknowing
teachers into frying to learn things they
cannot grasp, and never will. Usually
they are two grades or more behind
average children of similar age. One
such is attending my school. She is 13,
and in Grade 3, among children of seven
and eight. Even then she cannot learn
their simple work. I am not provided
with apparatus for teaching such cases,
and, anyhow, am fully occupied with the
normal children. What am Ido with her ?
“Leave her alone,” says the inspector,
“she’ll learn something.” So the poor
girl stays on until she is 14, to go out
then into the harder life of the outside
world to whatever cruel fate awaits her.
In such 'cases country teachers should be
allowed to report to headquarters, which
should sehd up a medical officer. Then,
if the case were reported suitable, the
child should be offered special treatment,
as in Melbourne. To this end residential
schools for defectives would, of course,
have to be established in country centres,
just as asylums for the insane are. The “Let them
alone” attitude of the Department and the Govern-
ment is a disgrace to our alleged advanced civilisa-
tion.
* * » *
Governor Davidson (N.S.W.) assures
The Bulletin that his little girls didn’t, nt
the request of the Prince, call him Edward.
The story annoyed his Excellency. We
don’t know why. The Prince is just the
sort of human young man who might be
glad to be called Edward by two likeable
little girls of his host’s household.
■* * * *
From the Yic. State Gallery
Wearing a cocked hat, edged fore and aft with
real or imitation feathers, and Court dress displaying
a wealth of gold lace, Lieut.-Governor Irvine opened
Parliament, and tried to look as if he didn’t mind
the job. Premier Lawson inflicted on his Ex. one of
the longest throne-essays on record. Reading steadily,
much as he delivers a reserved judgment as C.J.,
Irvine managed to get through the 2200 words in
154 minutes. The listeners were bored (as most
of the stuff was historical or egotistical, and the
rest had been foretold), but a two-vear-old kiddie,
who had brought its marm along with it, was the
only one to express its real sentiments. It inter-
jected merrily as stale pars, were reeled off about
the railways, and the crowd looked grateful for
the relief. Peacock and Outtrim recalled that it
was just on 26 years since Irvine, after beating
Minister Dicky Baker for Lowan, saw his first,
sessional opening as a member of the Assembly. He
was not so much decorated about the body then, but
had more on his head.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Even the I.W.W. has its
human side. The imprisonment of Donald
Grant, the orator of the organisation, nearly
broke the heart of a cripple girl to whom he
had acted as cavalier. Coiping to Sydney
for treatment, she chanced to meet Grant
and made a hero of him; and he on his part
showed unusual tenderness for a hero. She
had to travel in cabs, and to be carried
from the cab to the house, and Grant was
usually there to do the carrying. The girl s
death was inevitable, but Grant did splen-
did things to brighten her life whilst it
lasted. The arrest of Larkin coincided with
the arrival of his wife and children in Aus-
tralia. He had been banished from Ireland
with his brother Jim after the Dublin strike
riots, and hadn’t seen his family for years;
but after he arrived in Australia the lA\. vV.
“put in” for the passage money. It has
since supported the family.
“Dad” : Billjim, junior, continues to grow
up and devise expedients to meet special
circumstances as he adds to his stature. Ten-
year-old was told to go and buy a pound
sugar at Camberwell (Vie.). He argued that
it was lio use asking for the very scarce com-
modity, as it would not be sold —by itself.
Marm insisted, and T.-Y.-O. set off. think-
ing hard as he went. Arrived at the grocery,
he ordered packets of tea, oatmeal, matches,
and then sugar. As soon as the sugar was
placed alongside the-other packets he seized
it, threw down the tanner held in his fist,
and ran.
* ■ * *
“Cleveland”: Federal members, having
considered their own financial woes, /night
spare a few moments to now consider the
case of the midshipman. R.A.N., and his pay
of £9l per annum! It used to bijupossible
to be a middy and keep up a decent appear-
ance on £9l p.a.; in fact, it used to be done
on less. But if there is anything that has
outstripped the price of being misgoverned
it is the cost of those incidentals that are
indispensable to a middy. Mess bills now
eat up about £57 of his £9l p.a., which
leaves him, with £34 p.a., or 13s. per week,
for all other outgoings. The splash a middy
can make on 13s. in the set he has to move
among is about equal to that which would
follow from dropping 2d. into the sea of
national debt.
» * * *
From a city consulting-room :
State Governments that may be contemplating the
extension of sanatoria for consumptives would do
well, before launching out on new schemes, to peruse
the superintendent’s report of the work done last
year at the Waterfall (N.S.W.) sanatorium. This
most experienced officer urges that patients in all
stages of the disease should no longer be herded
together, but that a radical change in the classi-
fication of sanatoria should be adopted. His sugges-
tion is that these institutions should be of three
different kinds, according to the physical condition
of the patients seeking admission. One should be
for early cases, in whom, after treatment, complete
restoration might be looked for. Another should be
for those who might be expected to remain for
a long while, and who might, after treatment, be
able to perform light duties. The third should be
kept exclusively for those hopelessly crippled by
the disease, whom only death can release. Under
present conditions, with early, acute and chronic
cases admitted indiscriminately, and where, in con-
SIDELIGHTS ON HEROES.
Jenks, V.C., “getting the wind up ” at last.
sequence, there is a heavy mortality, the effect on
those who are or should be progressing favorably is
most prejudicial. Consider for a moment the mental
state of the inmates of Waterfall sanatorium last
year in view of the fact that the death-roll for that
period was 173. It is a wonder so many recoveries
took place under the appalling conditions.
“J.’s” collection of 26-year-old royalties:
I have met three high-up royalties as 26-year-
olds, and the ex-Crown Prince of Germany was the
best-looking of them. Silence the British Empire
League while I recall the past. He was in Paris
having a final burst before his marriage. Picture a
radiant young man about six feet high, with broad
shoulders, a slim waist, and long, straight legs, who
carried himself like an English guardsman. He had
bright yellow hair, the whitest teeth, the clearest
ALAS! ALAS!
“Not half as many men marry for money
as are supposed to.”
Yea, verily—because not half as many girls
have money as are supposed to!”
blue eyes, and the complexion of a girl. He danced
with the professional ladies at Maxim’s- —always pre-
ferring the English ones —and in general had as
hilarious a time as his guardians, elderly military
men, would let him. But he never seemed to want
people ,to forget he was the Crown Prince, though
he was in Paris very much incognito. At the Rat
Mort one night 1 saw him allow his weary old fol-
lowers to stand for many minutes near the supper-
table while he “worded” a half-clothed young
woman. They wouldn’t sit down without a sign
from him, and he wouldn’t give it.
The King of Spain looked more like the real thing
than either Edward or Wilhelm. He also was tall
and magnificently built —an athlete and a soldier
in one. He smiled as freely as our pleasant-faced
little visitor: but it was what the lady-nove'.ists
call “a proud smile.” His pose was that of an old-
world Spanish hidalgo in the presence of the family
peasants, and he carried it off very well indeed.
No large body of people ever liked the Crown
Prince so far as I can gather. The Spanish King is
more admired—as a picturesque figure, a skilful
polo-player, a forceful character, as. a brave man,
and so on—than he is loved. There is not the least
doubt as to the genuine public affection which
Edward manages to inspire. It is a matter, I think,
of his queer want of superciliousness, which is the
bane of his class, and which has always been pain-
fully evident in the Boche princelings. The world
loves a simple man as much as it recoils from the
posturer.
» * * *
“Sixenate”: An indignant citizen who
had some business with a Government De-
partment tells this story as if he fails to
see the humor of it. He had waited
for 20 minutes at a counter where
a clerk on one side and a citizen
on the other exchanged confidential
remarks about horses, and getting
tired he tried to attract the atten-
tion of one of the other clerks who
were doing nothing very thoroughly.
They behaved as if the counter and
his beckoning finger were a hun-
dred miles off. One lighted a cigar-
ette, and another turned a leaf of
a paper to show a third some infor-
mation about a pugilist. Exas-
perated at last, the citizen shouted,
“Why don’t you fellows attend to
business? You all seem to be
doing nothing.” At this one of the
clerks showed a languid in-
terest. “Oh. we’re doing some-
thing all right,” he drawled. “I’d like to
know what the it is then?” the visitor
growled. “We’re waiting,” observed the
weary one, “for our annual leave.”
* * * *
For the first time in the history of West-
ralia a case was dealt with the other day
by a bench of women. The expected male
magistrate was absent, but Mrs. J. Beadle
and Mrs. E. Mellows, who only recently
had <T.P. attached to their names, decided
that they could carry on, and they did.
* * * *
Holding a glass of Yan Yean in his fist,
Hardt Singh, said to be a Sikh, swore by the
holy water of the Ganges and the Sacred
Cow to testify truthfully when he appeared
as accuser in an assault case in Melbourne
city court the other day. No beef was pro-
duced, but Ilardt invoked damnation for his
soul if he prevaricated. Apparently the
Sacred Cow was excused ; anyhow, even with-
out her Singh was believed, and the white
trash that biffed him was fined 60s. or a fort-
night.
FORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“To say the least of it, the fashion of dress
adopted by many modern girls shows distinctly bad
form.” —S. M. Herald.
The girl who through the tumult goes
Within the city’s rustling swarm,
And more of her own beauty shows
Than hides with ornaments and clothes,
If but her ways are kind and warm
Shows virtues quite enough for me,
Though wowsers’ eyes may evil see.
I am, myself, prepared to praise
Economy in ev’ry shape;
And if the girl by saving ways
Much of her loveliness displays—
Much that the Pharisee would drape—
I will admit I’m one of those
Who like young beauty more than clothes.
Let wowsers in their wrath declare
The form each girleen shows is bad;
The wowsers have such limbs I’ll swear
They need a lot of clothes to wear.
But undraped beauty makes me glad—
I revel in the sights I see;
Their form seems right enough to me.
N.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


Do Not Be Alarmed
At the Menace ot Colds
that is borne on every cool breeze.
Keep a bottle of Bennington's
Irish Moss handy, and
have a perfectly free
mind this Winter
time.
A
Iff! IT'
&
BWTON'S,
CARR AGEEN I
IRISH "MOSS;
CIRACZ •OWWCTO* J
IRISH MOSS
Get a bottle to-day—,
insist on Bonnington’s,
and take no proffered
substitute.
“i® standard remedy for Coughs, Colds, In-
fluenza, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, and all Chest
complaints. -
BlTiTil
Start the day right by taking a glass of SAL HEPATICA
A spoonful in a glass of water makes a bubbling
drink that helps to keep .you in wonderful health.
Don’t-confuse SAL HEPATICA with so-called
fruit salts. SAL HEPATICA is a unique sal-
ine compound possessing tonic and laxative pro-
perties similar to the well-known Bitter Waters
of Europe. Sal Hepatica is used by millions of
<
o
b
a
ili
HU
itmmm
xcrJßje,'
people throughout the world, and is
endorsed by doctors as a safe and effec-
tive remedy for stomach and liver dis-
orders, headache, in-
digestion and for re-
lieving rheumatism.
Price 2/- and 4/- at
all chemists. Don’t
accept substitutes.
r
%
>
Get it from
your
Chemist.
L 259
“Spare Corp”: His name is Percy Drury,
lie is a returned soldier, and he lives at Salt-
water (North Coast, N.S.W.). He was in
a boat with his father and two other men,
Baker and Murray, when it swamped in the
breakers and overturned. Again and again
his father and .the others were washed from
the boat, and again and again he swam after
and recovered them. Eventually he was able
to carry his father ashore; and then lie set
out after the others. He brought Baker in,
but he was dead; then Murray, and he was
unconscious. Drury set to work to resuscitate
him, and did. After which he built a fire, fixed
up the two elderly men beside it, and rode
bareback six miles to a telephone to secure
a doctor. Then he hitched up the horse in
a sulky and drove to meet the doctor, whose
car could not come over the rough bush
tracks. No wonder Fritz didn’t get to
Amiens!
* * * Jf
“Silas”: I am wondering if the suits sup-
plied to relatives of my own are a fair sample
of what a grateful country has done for the
heroes of Gallipoli and Flanders in the
matter of providing civilian raiment to Cin-
cinnatus returning to his plough. The suits
in question are a sort that would not look
ou t of place on a Chinese hoeing onions for
a Celestial boss at 30s. a week, but on a
decent Australian they take on the charac-
ter of a flagrant degradation. True, the
suits I have • seen have had three or four
weeks’ wear, but nothing could excuse their
low ugliness and drab infamy. They contain
the worst material I have ever seen, in con-
junction with workmanship so bad that there
is ever over and about them an irritating
PROOF OF DESPERATE LOVE.
“But are you sure you love me, dearest ?”
“ Would I he asking you to marry me with
the present cost of living if I didn’t,
darling ?”
suggestion that they have been cut out by
mad monkeys, and tacked together by inebri-
ated tailor-birds. If the tailor makes the
man, this is a deliberate attempt to un-man
every Australian who took to the Hun.
“Gordon G.”: Said a good old J.P. to a
scornful young lawyer-man in a Vic. court
the other morning: “I should have expected
from a gentleman of your profession, sir,
if not regard for my office, at least some
little respect for my grey hairs.” Replied
the blasphemous Gent.
One to the bewhis-
kered Solomon : “With
the greatest respect,
sir, I say that I have
yet to learn that a
zrey beard makes a
billygoat any sweeter.”
S HE DID HER HIT.
“What sort of a time did you have when the Prince was here?"
“One of the host! None of the cats in our set have spoken to me since."
From a Sydney man at Horseferry-road :
Very few of us remain here. Three boats leaving
this week (19th May) take home the last of the
A.I.F. The rest of us go to Australia House to
finish the cleaning-up. We live in a new world —
a world without privileges. Buckshee golf is cut
right out; free theatre tickets are rare birds; and
green hills no longer invite at railway concessions of
66 per cent.- —we pay full rates at last. Reminders
of the war-period are at a discount; and khaki
(even Australian) cuts no ice. The Tommy has
slipped back to his old pre-war status, so now we
wear uniform on State occasions only. Australia
House is dead. We hear that Joe Cook will take
charge. Lord help us l . An energetio trade campaign
is badly needed. There’s a great chance for our
products to exploit the market and not only catch
very high prices but incidentally overcome such
British prejudices as that against the eating of jam
which has been kept in a tin.
*** * *
“Par Bon”: I had one good laugh in the
line. It was at Ypres in 1917 when the
newspapers were full of gush about Haig’s
wonderful “sledgehammer tactics,” the
actual result of which was an advance of
roughly three miles, in some parts less, when
British, Australians and Canadians were
thrown by thousands into the quagmires that
border the Menin-road to die like flies in a
saucer of treacle. We were going into the
line, eight of us, two squads of stretcher-
bearers. Coming along the debris-choked
Menin-road, Fritz had given us a good spin;
he had knocked off to let his guns cool. We
had reached “Clapham Junction” and de-
cided to have our lunch of bread and bully.
Just as we sat down along staggered a squad
of 15th Field Ambulance bearers with a
Tommy officer aboard, a typical toothbrush-
moustached hero of the Piccadilly front. It
was plain that the wind was up, for he kept
jumping about on the stretcher in a way
that drew a fire of curses from the sweating
bearers. Suddenly a tank that had been
bogged near by commenced to rattle and
jolt back into the road. Fritzie’s balloons
spotted him. A screech sounded overhead,
and a _ 5:9 lobbed just off the road. The
Woodbine hopped off the stretcher with the
agility of a dancing-master, and set off down
the road at a pace that would have put
Donaldson to shame, while the squad of
astounded bearers speeded their patient with,
barbed curses, closed up their stretcher and
returned. God knows where that hero was
w'ounded, but it certainly wasn’t in the legs
or the lungs.
“Cleveland”: “NeWsey Iv.” (B. 24/6/’2O)
is right when he says that fantods are not
the monopoly of John Barleycorn. I can
vouch for having seen them when a drink
wasn’t nearer than three days, and mine
were of the marine variety. One of my
war-jobs was escorting convoys in the Medi-
terranean, and once a convoy got clear of
the swept channel, say. at Alexandria, head-
ing for Malta or Bizerta, there was a large-
sized feeling of insecurity that was not con-
ducive to repose. Then with nerves frayed
we’d begin to see things. As most.torpedoes
came from the same direction that the fes-
tive porpoise usually takes when approach-
ing ships to sport round the bows, every stray
porpoise was sudden death on the way. At
night-time especially the man who could
tell the difference between a dolphin and a
“mouldy” was an expert. lie hadn’t much
time, however, and often “Action stations”
have been sounded to repel a porpoise who
was hurrying along to be friendly. To add
to the hilarity of the proceedings were the
wireless messages that told where someone
on shore thought Fritz might be. There
were always four to seven days of this,
according to weather and other trifles, and
the officer in charge of the escort, in the
busy days of 1917 and 1918, seldom got into
his bunk at all. I have dozed on the bridge
and watched a procession of all the animals
that were in the pre-historic ark lumber
across the foredeck. They were always dank
and clammy-looking beasts, and appeared to
be large eaters in search of a meat supper.
They generally appeared about the fourth
day, and got more daring as the trip pro-
gressed. I have seen them in broad day-
light take the places of men in the crow’s
nest and on the gun-platforms. But they
were rank pacifists, and the first sound of
an alarm or an attack on the convoy scat-
tered the lot.
* * * *
On a trick of nature and the law: —
In N. S. Wales last winter a winchman employed
by the Union - Steamship Co. caught cold while
working a 24-hour shift. Pneumonia developed, and
the infection spread to an elbow injured 15 months
before. An operation was performed, but it failed
to heal the damaged member; at all events, the man
was incapacitated from work. The question arose
whether he had suffered “a personal injury arising
out of or in the course of employment,” and was
entitled to recompense under the Workmen’s Com-
pensation Act. Judge Scholes, of the District Court,
held that the injury disclosed hadn’t been caused “by
accident” and said “No.” N. S. Wales Supreme
Court, Ferguson, J., dissenting, also said “No.”
Adrian Knox, Federal C.J., remarked that “injury
by accident” meant “accidental injury” and pro-
posed sending the case back to the District Court.
But his four learned brothers of the Full High Court
were agreed that the facts adduced constituted
“injury by accident” in law, so the worker won his
case, with all the costs. But clearly he wouldn’t
have won it if his pneumonia had taken the ordi-
nary course. It was the incapacitation caused by
his injured arm that clinched his claim.
* * * *
“Macquarie Street” sums up the value of
Latin in bis trade:—
If medical students were permitted to drop Latin,
with which ancient and defunct language they are
too prone to ornament their prescriptions when they
become full-fledged medicoes, and were to turn their
attention to the serious study of English literature,
and also learn to read French and Italian, they
would escape the gibes that are aimed at their want
of culture, and in addition would be able to lay
their views on medical and surgical subjects before
their colleagues with a good deal more clarity. To
begin with, they should not be permitted to start
their medical studies until they have reached 18.
This, with a six years’ course of study (which is
down for consideration by Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide universities), would make the young man
24 before he was let loose on the public, and, consider-
ing his job, that is early enough. When the question
of dropping Latin as a compulsory subject for the
medical entrance examination came on for discussion
lately in Mellourne, somebody thought it would be
highly improper if a language in which prescriptions
were to be written was omitted. But why write
them in Latin? It is nothing less than arrant
humbug in these modern days for the leech to
write “Capiat coch. med. ter in die post cibos”
when he means his patients to take a dessertspoonful
thfee times a day after meals; and a sleeping-draught
does not taste any less nauseous for being branded,
“Sumat coch. min. omne node hora somni.” Such-
like tags of a dead-and-gone language often serve as
a cloak for professional ignorance, and are at best
but barber’s-pole physic. Latin should have been
scrapped when an opportunity presented itself of
falling into line with some of the most important
British universities which have long discarded it as
a compulsory subject; but, instead of this,
though the change had been proposed by the Uni.
Council, and had the support of the medical faculty,
the Senate decided to grub along in the old conven-
tional way, and negatived the motion by 41 votes to
33. So Latin remains to break the Melbourne stu-
dent’s heart and consume time that ought to be
spent in learning his business of diagnosis and cure.
What would the average university senator think of
a man who, applying for a job as chauffeur, said he
was quite sure he. could do it, because while he Was
learning the business he spent a lot of the time
studying astronomy? Incidentally, these people no
doubt call themselves loyal Britishers; but they
adopt the Hunnish view that English isn’t a good
enough language to earn their bread and butter in.
“Rule Britannia Smith”: Loyalty to the
Throne and Person is the first plank of the
family platform. Still, we’re human, so my
wife’s sister in Melbourne adds this post-
script to her last letter:—
Isn’t, he a darling! Do let me know at once if
you hear any fresh scandal about him.
* * * *
“Gouger v : Southerners can say what they
like about North Bananaland being no white
man’s country ; but it starts the springs of
life anew. It has been closely noted that
married people of advanced age, after settling
in the Cooktown district, have invariably
been startled by a visit from the Stork years
after that dignified bird had ceased calling-
down south. I know one delighted couple
who, after such an unexpected and thrilling
experience, wrote to two friends who had
long courted the solemn-visaged bird in vain.
The experiment was made, and after IS
months of Cooktown the bird arrived with
a fine baby boy in his old carpet-bag.
RENEWAL OF LIFE’S CONTRACT.
HEE : “I see the Colonel’s yetting about with
Mrs. Colonel again. Have they made it
up?”
HAW: "Oh, yes, the Colonel’s taken a fresh
lease of wife, as it were.”
HARD PUNCHING IN THE BIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Renown met the worst weather she has ex-
perienced since being- commissioned. In the fore-
noon speed was reduced to 15 knots, and later a
further reduction was made, the ship appearing to
travel through the mountainous seas at no greater
speed than 11 knots.”
She charged the seas of half the world and flung
them left and right;
She smashed Pacific waves to spray and paused not
in her flight;
But something stopped the proud Renown half-way
across the Bight.
There’s nothing ’twixt the ice and us to halt a winter
gale,
And so the ship that scorned the sea put down her
British tail
And nursed herself as coasters must beneath that
mighty flail.
Ring off! Ease down! The best of craft can’t punch
against the Pole!
Ring off and watch the jazzing stars, for now she’s
got to roll.
The seas are mountains on the march, so quit and
save your coal.
Take ship—the best that you can find—and go and
look for fight;
Raise steam —as much as she will stand—and drive
her day and night.
Elsewhere it goes, but not down south when Winter
whips the Bight!
N.S.W.
KODAK.
HER ETHEREAL BEAUTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her hair is golden as the sun,
Her eyes are bright as stars
And blue as summer skies, her lips
Outrival ruddy Mars;
And her two rows of perfect teeth
That are so pearly white
Are like the twinkling stars, because
They all come out at night.
VICTORIA.
SEEDY.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The <>nly Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
rr f! M M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
ML C F. B. S. Falkiner, Janies Kidd, W. H.
Macka'y, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G WATSON, JOHN MAIR, .
' Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
df
DEAF?
You can HEAR,
by sending for an
Acousticon
ON 10 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
IN YOUR OWN HOME.
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 830,000 delighted users, includ-
ing the Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
who has been using the Acousticon for
more than five years.
The Acousticon will safely and surely
check your increasing deafness and
enable you to hear.
T Store 102 DakJngr House, SYDNEY
LamSOlVservice Olderfleet, Collins3t., MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter , 200 High St., ChrUtc’h.
W.A.: H. Little & Co., SSI Hag Street, Perth.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARiTINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHKRSEMAN.
tflGEW ORfft
** EXTRA HIGH GRADE*"
SMOKING TOBACCO
*
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Forster, the new G.-G., confesses that he
is slightly deaf. He and Hughes will need
to keep the double doors .shut if they are
talking “press-scoop” stuff.
“The Deacon”: The clerical surprise of
the week was the appointment of Father
O’Farrell, the Vincentian, to the vacant
Bathurst bishopric. Outside Bathurst the
Rev. Maurice O’Reillv was the red-hot
favorite ; but his understudy at St. John’s
(within Sydney Uni.) gets the job, and
there is more than a hint that—as in cer-
tain other appointments to the ecclesias-
tical cocked biretta —the Apostolic Delegate
has used his veto. The bishop-elect is of
quiet demeanor, has a large and powerful
preaching voice, and the part of
his 50-odd years has been about equally
divided between soul-salvage and education.
Two stepbrothers in the Sydney archdiocese
wear the collar that buttons at the back:
one is the easy-going pastor of Nowra
(N.S.W.), and the younger is the rugged
Sinn Fein lecturer for whom Archbishop
Kelly has to periodically find a new appoint-
ment.
It was 40 years on June 28 since the Kelly
Gang was rounded up at Glenrowan ("V ic.).
Father (afterwards Bishop) Gibney, who
made a gallant attempt to persuade Dan
Kelly and Steve Hart to surrender, is still
alive —he is now in Westralia. So are police-
man Devine (now a racecourse detective in
Perth) and the sons of Mrs. Jones, of the
Glenrowan Hotel —they went West and
joined the police force; one of them owns
a Royal Humane Society medal for gallantry
in saving life.
“Mirza”: When he isn’t busy trying to
extract a living wage for the. clergy in his
ROBERT L.
CHIRNSIDE,
a member of
the V.A.T.C.
Committee,
among many
other things.
diocese, Gum-
bleton, the im-
ported Anglican
Gaiters at Bal-
larat, devotes
himself to pigs.
He has a fine
library of swine,
and often pushes
along to the
“y ard s” and
runs an apprais-
ing eye over the
grunter exhibits.
If judicious bid-
di n g indicates
anything, he
knows more
than the average
farmer abo u t
rare editions of
bacon.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Bakhap, the new Chairman of Committees in the
Senate, is the most grandiose speaker in either
House. He has a vocabulary several sizes too large
for him, and when fully wound up he would beat
a Babu brought up on Carlyle. One of his first
speeches in the Senate I will never forget. Stand-
ing up on the Government bench, with his huge
moustaches brushed up to clear the month for action,
he boomed a great flowery speech wherein clamor-
ous adjectives were married to incompatible nouns,
whilst verbs and adverbs pushed in anywhere like
policemen in a riot. The speech didn’t take long,
but the anguished Hansard man, accustomed to
grammalogue whole phrases of political common-
place, nearly died of Pitman’s cramp. Despite his
verbiage, however, he is a fine old man, and only
spouts from the fulness of a liberal heart.
“Eno” recalls a cold day:—
Willie Watt, interviewed in London, likened him-
self to a mere messenger-boy. 1 think 1 know the
origin of his strong objection to a messenger going
borrowing. One bitterly cold day Hughes and att
had a conference in the former’s room and drew up
some papers to be signed by the Governor of the
Commonwealth Bunk. IVatt sent his own messenger
down with them, but Denison Miller 'phoned for
more information, and IVatt said he’d call at the
Bank on his way to lunch. He went up to his
room for his hat and overcoat —but there wasn’t any
(•oat to be found. Messengers and clerks joined in
the search, but still no coat was forthcoming, and
a mystified and shivering Treasurer trudged down
Gpllins-street in the face of a biting wind. On
arrival at the Bank the matter of the papers was
soon fixed, and the Governor remarked: “I’ll send
these back by your lad; I told him to wait.” At
tlie sight of the boy coming into the room IVatt
gasped; the underling was warmly buttuiied up in
the missihg overcoat, whilst the only warmth about
its rightful owner was in his language.
An officer very high up in the Common-
wealth Treasury had long enjoyed the repu-
tation of being a top-noteher in the use of
vigorous and vivid
language. Who n
Watt took up the
office of Treasurer,
rumors began to
circulate that he
also was in the
running, and a joint
display by the two
was impatiently
waited for. The
outburst, when it
did come off, hap-
pened in the Treas-
ury strongroom,
and the privileged
few who chanced
to be present stood
out of range and
hugged themselves
with delight. Then
those who had
their money on the
Treasurer collected.
JUDGE EWING,
now sitting as a
Roual Commissioner
to give the Sydney
I.W.W. prisoners
one more chance.
Sachse, Chairman of Committees in the
Vic. House of Pluqh, is in such bad health
that he is hardly likely to be seen outside
his home again. Drysdale Brown is looked
upon as the next chairman.
Governor Weigall, of S.A., is going to do
Australian artists some good. When form-
ally welcomed at the Art Gallery on his
second day in Adelaide, he explained that
he wanted to come the first day, but was
told it would not be “proper” to anticipate
the formal occasion. He promptly dropped
on the local lack of portrait-painters, a fea-
ture which can be accounted for only by
the lack of wealthy people with a fancy for
spending money that way; and he has asked
to have recommended somebody, preferably
young, to do a portrait of his small daughter.
Sowden, president of the Gallery Board;
whispered in his ear that recent Governor
Galway bought here, and now shows in his
London home, quite the best display of Aus-
tralian art to be found in that city. “And,”
the prophet added, “it will turn out a good
investment.”
Just as the Vic. Treasury receipts were
closing for the financial year a cheque for
£219,826 came along from the William Gib-
son (Foy and Gibson) estate, valued at
£1,856,326. The probate officers had to do
some squeezing to get it.
John Watt, who has passed out at Middle
Park (Vic.), at 63, leaving a widow and
family of six, was an elder brother of Willie.
John had been ill for three years. He never
got any reflected glory from his brother, and
lived the humblest kind of life.
South Aus. has a woman minister who
celebrates marriage. She is the Rev. Lily
H. J. Lingwood-Smith, and on June 24 she
legally united two members of the “Order
of Light Christian Spiritual Church” at
the Order of Light manse, Wayville.
Resident members of Ballarat Benevolent
Asylum had a special tea the other day in
honor of “old Tommy Thompson.” There
are many old Tommy Thompsons about, but
this one must be the oldest of the lot, for
the special tea was to celebrate his (alleged)
106th birthday. Tommy’s reasons for living
all that time were not stated at the shrvoo,
nor was it made clear that he had ever
made a bid for immortality in any other
way.
After living 91 years in the house in which
he was born, Richard Harrison, of Jericho
(Tas.), moved out for good the other day.
Ilis father came to the Speck in 1822 and
took up the place which has been the family
nest ever since. Richard was a noted horse-
man in his time.
Death snapped on Monday a notable link
with the Australian past in Edward Richard
Deas-Thomson, aged 81. His father was
the Deas-Thomson who married Governor
Bourfce’s second daughter and was Colonial
Secretary and I.egislative Councillor of N.
S. Wales for many years; his father was
Accountant-General of the Navy in Nelson s
day. Edward Richard Deas-Thomson was
an Oxford man, and the Church was the
abiding passion of his quiet life.
A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”) is being
urged to stand against Littleton Groom for
the Darling Downs (Q.) seat at th£ next
Federal elections. Davis is well-known in
Toowoomba, near which he formerly farmed,
but it is doubtful if lie has enough political
ambition to try to jolt the old-established
and amiable Groom into private life.
Many old sports must have kindly recol-
lections of Rosier’s gunshop in Elizabeth-
strcet, Melbourne. Rosier died last week,
aged 84, more than 70 years of his life
having been spent in Victoria. As a youth
and young man Rosier was on the land with
his father, but later he took to gun-mer-
ohantry in Melbourne, and did some lovely
profiteering in destructive weapons in the
days when the Queen City of the South was
notorious for her open drains.
Dead last week, in Sidney, at 80, John T.
Baptist. “By' request no flowers.” The dead
man was the last owner of the one-time
famous Baptist nursery at Surry Hills.. The
original John Baptist, a native of Portugal,
had a butcher’s shop in Goulburn.-street in
the twenties and thirties of last century.
Apparently to take his mind off cold meat
he bought a strip of sand which he con-
verted into a nursery, and in those early
days of Sydney it became a fashionable
Sunday-afternoon resort.
That brilliant rolling-stone, parson Wynd-
hnm Heathcote, is on the move again. He
has been Anglican vicar in England and
at Bundaberg (Q.), chaplain in the .Boer
War, and Unitarian minister in Melbourne
and Adelaide. Now he has told his congre-
gation that he finds it “waste of time trying
to teach natural religion in Australia,” and
means to leave them at the end of the year.
Some of Heathcote’s many good yarns are
about his schooldays at Clifton College
(Eng.) with Haig and Birdwood.
J. F. Conigrave, Just dead in Perth at 77,
had been a Westralian all this century, but
his best years were spent in Adelaide. He
was a Registeb reporter, land-agent and
secretary of the Widows’ Fund Society and
of the local Chambejr of Manufactures, then
a new thing. But he came most into the
limelight with the Adelaide Jubilee Exhibi-
tion of 1887. E. T. Smith was its promoter
and financier, but Conigrave did the organ-
ising work. In Perth he was secretary
of the Chamber of Commerce and a Bul-
letin contributor who wrote less than this
paper would have liked.
Peter Board, permanent head of the
N.S.W. Education Department, has got an
assistant Under-Sec. at last' —one of the re-
markable Smith family. Smith, sen., used
to be headmaster of Grafton Public School:
hence the “Grafton” in the name of Pro-
fessor Elliot Smith, Dean of the Faculty
of Medicine at London University, the most
famous of the sons. There is another, Dr.
S. A., on Sydney Uni. staff; and the new
Assistant Under-Sec., who used to be head-
master at Burwood and lately has been the
Department’s star inspector, has supplied
the service with some of its best text-books.
Tom Edwards, the retiring Chief of Police
in S. Aus., has the middle name of Neptune,
having been born on that ship while his
parents were coming from Cornwall to the
copper-mines of S. Aus. He was at work
at Wallaroo at eight, but grew up into a
city constable, and did detective work till
he succeeded Raymond as Commissioner.
The incoming man is the comparatively
youthful Brigadier-General Leane, with lots
of experience of handling men, but none of
policemen. The Force met and resolved
solemnly that it dogs not approve of the
principle of going outside for a Commis-
sioner ; but, as the Government has seen
fit to appoint him, it pledges itself to be
his loyal cobbers.
Another of Hughes’s friends has been quar-
tered upon the suffering taxpayers, a billet
as Commonwealth publicity officer having
been found for E. E. Heitnmnn, who won
Ivalgoorlie (W.A.) as a Hughesite in 1917
and "lost it last year. A publicity officer is
usually a journalist, but Heitmann’s jour-
nalism was merely an accident. He was an
engine-driver in 1904, when he captured the
Cue seat in the State Parliament, and for
nine years after that he was a professional
politician. Cue being marked down for
destruction in a Redistribution of Seats
Bill, he resigned that pocket-borough and
contested a vacancy at Geraldton, being de-
feated by a few votes. Between the by-
election and the general election (he got
back then). Johnnie Drew, State Secretary
in the Scaddan Ministry, gave him a 30b
on his Geraldton Express. That appar-
ently was all the journalistic experience
Ileitniann ever had, and it was only a
matter of 12 months.
Moiseiwitsch , Townhalliwitsch, Melbourni-
witsch, June 28.
Murdoch, of Hobart Marine Board, men-
tioned at a Board meeting the other day
that he had already received over 100 appli-
cations from persons desirous of getting a
job at Cadbury’s new sweets factory, to be
built on the banks of the Derwent within
a few months. One 6f these applicants, de-
clared Murdoch, was the father of 20 child-
ren, while another boasted 21. The latter,
it was explained, had had four wives to
assist him.
Senior-Detective John Hawe went out of
business last week. For 40 years the suave,
smiling, gentle-voiced six-foot 14-stoner had
defended law and order. His attitude to-
wards the criminal was wonderfully imper-
sonal. He knew some of the most bloody-
minded villains in Australia by their
Christian names, and when they were off
duty he was their friend. 1 On the other
hand, in action he was as merciless as he
was indifferent to danger. He helped to
take Digby Grand, who, with Jones, was
hanged for the Long murder in 1903. He
always believed that Jones and not Grand
fired the fatal shot, though both had hor-
rible records, and C. E. Pilcher, K.C., was
commissioned as prosecutor, to go all-out
after a conviction. The idea was that the
crime had been done in a moment of fright,
which was a weakness Grand had never ex-
hibited. He died as gamely in the end as
his sandy-haired rat of a colleague did 1 the
other thing. Hawe began in the R.I.C. at
the time of the Phoenix Park assassinations
in Dublin. In 1884 he came to Sydney, and
had served there ever since.
Australia has two links (each six feet
long) with Thomas Carlyle—Edward Irving,
editor of Iyalgoorlie Miner, and Godfrey
Irving, his soldier-brother. They are
grandsons of the Irving on whom Jane
Welsh was smitten before she married the
most famous dyspeptic of his time.
Maurice Carton, the old-soldier lecturer
in French at Melbourne Uni., occasionally
gets one back on the students. The other
day some of them brought a little dog into
the lecture-room and hid it under a cluster
on Carton’s chair. When he turned round
from the blackboard to use the duster, he
disturbed the animal. “Ah !” he said, “dear
little puppy. But we cannot have you all
inside. You will have to wait on the mat.”
“Slug”: If the Republicans win the Pre-
sidential election, Warren G. Harding will
be the first editor to occupy White House.
He has been everything from printer’s devil
on. Although Marion, Ohio, has a popula-
tion of only 25,000, Harding’s pgper, the
Star, boasts a private telegraph service,
modern press, electric control, eight linotype
machines and 50 hands. In 1914, after his
election as Senator, Harding, delayed in a
country town in Indiana, dropped into the
office of the local rag. The boss was out.
so Harding approached the foreman and
asked for a job. “We could do with another
liner,” he was told. “Then try me,” replied
Harding, and seating himself at the machine
he ran off a galley in slick time. He left
a card marked “Warren G. Harding, Marion,
0.,” which the foreman showed to the boss,
saying, “Get him —he’s a mjghty good man.”
“Yes,” was the reply, “he’s a mighty good
man; but he’s got a better job—he’s the
Senator for Ohio.”
( Continued, on page 18.)
AS IN THE BEGINNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long forty years ago they sat,
The new-made man-and-wife, •
And watched the glowing embers that
Lit all their coming life.
And in low, rev’rent voices spoke
Of those that were not yet;
Of wee, warm, dimpled hands to stroke
Their cheeks, and eyes were wet
From dreams of sober happiness
With great, strong boys of theirs,
And fair, sweet girls, whose eyes would bless
Their slow and gracious years.
Last night they sat beside the ilame,
Their lean hands stretched before,
Wet-eyed. No sound of laughter came,
No feet were at the door.
And then they talked in whispers fond
That spake a haunting pain
Of children scattered wide beyond
Blue, wrinkled sea and plain.
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


*855
w:*
m
ft
a?
/
wu
!(•-.,75
i
! A
/ /
\%T t
f ■-,
14 \ x-. \%\
|v\\w
If Ni S \\\
MMmM
&
[ll i
mM
Y%<
-AiY
\ fcA\
IIM \
s
y M'Jjj
HR,.-™, 3 ft ,2
mumm/m
WwJMzMft
s. :£dßlra >■£-- vf-
V;
st*S
mp&'t
tiki
ilifte
m
m
m
Wit
*/?■* *
r#;
Kite?*
Him
pjj
HH
%
Kff
? IIM
IMiA.
ki
M
ivx i
9 *
pf
fc; *
..; f
S 3
&y*.
_.v-.
a|fjar
S
ffillrai
gm
BR
av-t.-u
t-i
j
s^jSSe
11181
IS
>1 :
Hsarafig
*e
■iff.
ell'
wji
ps
$g
iimi
Mi
HK
B*s
■A?” /» Vve?' •
." j# ■jr,<
»Cr - lii’ , v r.'
374
'4jF .<-> i
%■ ■Ays*'
Pq-aj
?A
11
7/
|W f///.
: fi £ls
ssr
ri
&■«
I | s
oe
/
y
r.
&
\
!®T«A2S
SHIRTS
FOR beauty in pattern,
quality in clotb, for fit
and for service tbere
are no better sbirts made
Good Shirt Depts. have Pelaco Shirts and Collars.


DEAR WHEAT?
Save every g'rain by using
the Sunshine Harvester.
Built to last a lifetime.
KAY.
iiiiiiil
H.V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works
Stanley Street, South Brisbane;
27-39 George Street West, Sydney;
Corner Collins & Spencer Streets, Melbourne
56 North Terrace, Adelaide;
36 Pier Street, Perth;
Comer York & St. John Streets, Launceston.
Manufacturer of
Harvesters,
Headers,
Grain Drills,
Fertiliser Drills,
Patent Combined Drill and
Cultivator,
Lucerne Seeders,
Chaff cutters,
Chaff Elevators,
Saw Benches,
Spring Tyne Cultivators,
Grain Boxes,
Rigid Tyne Cultivators,
One-way Disc Cultivators,
Stump-jump Disc Cultivators
Mouldboard Ploughs, 1 to
5 furrows,
Orchard Ploughs,
Disc Ploughs,
Plough Shares,
Harrows,
Swingletrees,
Metal Gates,
Maize Shelters,
Engines, 1-g- to 10 h.p.
Working Heads,
Pumps.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue 81, free and post free. Mention item you are interested in.
No £ since the convict days had scarlet
and ermine been seen on the bench in Tas-
mania until Justice Ewing put ’em all on
the other day in a criminal case at Laun-
ceston.
Stout old Hermann Herlitz, the benevolent
head of the German Lutheran Church in
Melbourne, who died the other day, aged 86,
was the inventor of the Hospital Sunday
idea for whipping up hospital funds.
Sam Phillips, who died in Perth the other
day, was a son of the first white girl born
in Westralia. He sat in the first Legisla-
tive Assembly under Responsible Govern-
ment, but was always more interested in
live stock than legislation.
“Sarn-Major” : There was one of our boys,
of the 3rd Battalion (afterwards he was a
corporal in the 3rd Field Engineers), who
’listed on June 24. 1915, and was at work
at Lone Pino on August 6. Did any Digger
lion the bags in less than 42 days, or does
this man Barnes hold the record?
Henry Teesdale Smith, the man whose
name is oftenest mentioned to the Tas-
manian Commission which is inquiring* into
the negotiations for the purchase of certain
engines, used to get £5OOO a year as manager
of Millar’s Karri and Jarrah, Ltd., W.A.
But there is evidently more money in rail-
way and silo contracts.
Sydney’s oldest solicitor ceased to collect
costs last month. A Hawkesbury native,
Richard Yeoman was son of John, of Raby
Farm, near Windsor. Richard struck Syd-
ney in 1851, and kept in the city to the
end. His first articles were served with
Archibald Little, and on that gentleman’s
death he passed over to R. P. Abbott, and
was admitted in 1859. He was a bachelor,
and lived to be 84.
Passed west recently, at a private hospital
in Sydney, aged 82, Benjamin Slaney,
painter, one of the Tichborne claimant’s
witnesses. The old man and his wife had
a free trip to London for the trial, and
remained there about nine months. He had
been the claimant’s landlord, and main-
tained to the end that his former tenant
was the real Sir Roger, and was only beaten
by “English sentiment.”
C. W. H. Garling, who died recently,
aged 86, was the first officer of the Bank of
N. S. Wales to complete 50 years of service.
Garling’s grandfather, who came to Sydney
in 1814, was one of two English solicitors
appointed to posts in the colony with the
right of private practice: Garling was Clerk
of the Peace, and W. 11. Moore Crown Soli-
citor. Before their arrival all the lawyers
in Australia were "birthstains.”
In Westralia Bill Lathlain, Mayor of
Perth, is tipped for one of the titles the
Prineelet is carrying in his suit-case. Some-
where about Jubilee year—the late Victoria’s
Jubilee —Bill began the serious business of-
life as carter for a Flinders-lane warehouse.
He doesn’t mind admitting that the first
three years he spent there his boudoir was a
stable loft, but a discerning importer saw a
business head on the young carter’s brawny
shoulders and gave him a chance in the
office. In time he became known as one of
Sargood’s best men, and, quitting the whole-
sale trade, he branched out as proprietor of
a department store in Perth. A patriot of
the robustious type is William. When Ger-
many surrendered lie mounted a lorry in
Perth’s principal street and led such cheer-
ing that, bull-necked and leather-lunged
though lie is, he had only the ghost of a
MAYOR LATHLAIN,
Perth, W.A.
voice left. But
he was game.
“B y J o v e,
boys,” came
fr o m the
Mayor in a
feeble whisper,;
“we’ve forgot-
ten something.
T h ree cheers
for gall an t
little Monte-
negro.” Then
his voice went,
but Perth still
cherishes th e
memory of Bill
waving his hat
wildly with one
hand, and wip-
ing his stream-
ing brow with
the other. The
West is n’t
strong on titles,
but it feels like
giving Bill Lath-
lain his pick.
From the Federal Gallery;—
The most deliberate speaker in the Reps is the
elderly Hay who succeeded Abbott for New England
(N.S.W.). When Hay talks, the Hansard man at
the table wonders whether the lion, member is
slowly recovering from a career as an undertaker’s
mute. His sentences fall in scattered clods, the
long and harrowing pauses suggesting a slow thinker
making a record journey on the trail of the right
word. Privately he is a genial, sociable soul, who
doesn’t take half as long to do things as to find
language to describe them.
“First Mate”: I was associate to a
Supreme Court Judge whose pompous dig-
nity was almost as famous as his long-
winded judgments. During the hearing of
a will case one witness displayed a marked
hostility towards the female beneficiary. On
being cross-examined he declared that, in
his opinion, she was “a bit of a suffragette.”
Here his Honor butted into the argument.
“And what,” he queried loftily, “is your
idea of a suffragette?” “Well, yer Honor,”
responded the witness, “a woman that wants
somethin’ and thinks it’s a vote.”
Tom Skeyhill, “the blind signaller,” who
gave Australia its first platform story of
Gallipoli, continues his wonderfully suc-
cessful career as a lecturer in the U.S.A.
At latest he was in Cleveland, where a
lecture on "The Humor and Poetry of the
War” was one of a series of three, the
other ■ speakers being Professor Stephen
Leacock (“Frenzied Fiction”) and W. B.
Yeats (“Friends of my Youth”). Skeyhill
is booked to leave America for Central
Europe and Russia on September 2.
If the proposal to appoint a principal of
Melbourne TJni. is hearkened to by the
Government and provision is made in the bill
promised for next session, Frank Tate,
Director of Education, will probably be
offered the job. Siuffi a billet, at £l5OO a
year and a knighthood thrown in. would
round off his career just nicely. Meantime
Ballarat, which has accommodation at its
State High School, and Geelong, which has
room to spare at its big Tech., aim at
becoming wings of the Uni. —another in-
stance of the awakening of the decentralisa-
tion worm in Victoria.
Dead, at well over SO, William Warren,
who came to Sydney as an infant in 1840,
and afterwards was probably the first
printer’s apprentice in a country office in
Australia. As a child in knickers he was
bound to William Farrand, who had founded
the Bathurst Free Press, one of the
only three papers published outside Sydney.
He spent most of his earlier working lif|
in Bathurst; then he was for a time on
Parkes’s old paper, the Empire, under Han-
son and Bennett, before settling down over
50 years ago in tin' Government Printing
Office in Sydney.
“W.J.D.” nominates these as the pioneers:
(J. Macdonald took up the first Gulf country
in 1803. He was managing director for a co.
formed by Bobby Towns, old “Jack” Robertson and
others. In the extreme west he had for neighbors
N. Buchanan and J. C. L. Rankin. James Gibson
was earliest on the Flinders, his lieutenants being
E. R. Edkins and G. W. Sawtell. Ernest Henry
pioneered Hughenden, Glendower, Burleigh, Fort
Constantine and Devoncourt. He was also respon-
sible for the Cloncurry mineral field. Edward Palmer
was on Canobie in 1804; and in the same year the
Jardine brothers, recently dead, made their wonder-
ful trip to Cape York.
“F.” : Many a trooper’s voice broke when
they laid Colonel Tom Todd in an Egyptian
grave. Maorilander by birth and West-
ralian by adoption, Tocld looked and talked
like one of the old Vikings, and Kitchener,
under whom he served in S'Africa, was
among his legion of friends. Sick in a
Cairo hospital of the malady that ultimately
carried him off, he got out of bed somehow,
dug up a friendly bird-man and ’planed
hundreds of miles across the desert to be
with his boys in the last thrust. That
showed the spirit of the man. But he had
a rough tongue. He was examining recruits
for the Light Horse, and one of them kissed
Mother Earth hard and often. “Are you
the bloke who told me that he learned to
ride on a station?” demanded Todd. “Yes,”
said the rookie, sheepishly, removing a clod
from his eye. “Must ha’ been a blanky
railway station,” said Tom. “Get back to
it.”
Dugald Thomson briefly emerged from
retirement to pay his respects to the Prince.
Dugald is an old man now, but time was
when he cut more ice in the House of Reps,
than any foreign-trader except Reid. He
might have had Cook’s job when Reid left,
but he stood aside,
not being a man
who thirsted for
advertisement o r
office. For 20 years
he was associated,
in business with
Robert Harper, the
Protectionist. They
were an ill-assorted
pair fiscally, but
each was a ser-
viceable politician
of a disappearing
type. j
Mr. VICTOR
MARSDEN, of
London MORNING
POST, one of the
British newspaper
representatives on
the Renown.
T. F. Morkham, who retired from the
Vic. Secretary for Lands’ chair 20 years
ago, is still about and helps to manage
the Albert Park; but his health is feeble
now. Skene, who succeeded him, lived only
a year or two after going out on pension ;
but Macgibbon and Heed, two other ex-
heads of the Lands, look good for many
years yet.
A curious political career had Tommy
Bath, of Westralia, who could have been
Premier of his State % and thrust the gift
away. At 27 he was elected unopposed for
the safest seat in the Labor party’s pos-
session ; two years later he was Chairman
of Committees, and at 30 he was Minister
of Lands in the Daglish Government, which
lasted a year. Then for live years he was
leader of the party, resigning from that post
just when office was in sight. In 1911
Bath quitted his safe seat to wrest an
enormously tough proposition from the other
side. He succeeded, and was for three
years one of Scaddan’s Ministers, but in
1914 he retired from the Government and
from Parliament, and he has never shown
the slightest desire to come back. Tommy
is a painfully conscientious chap, and his
mind has a serious bent. He was too
quixotic for party politics.
RESEMBLANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While watching idly down the dusty road
I saw, just by the straggling cherry-tree,
A weary team bearing i heavy load.
The youthful driver whistled merrily,
And as the waggon passed the garden gate
I saw my sweetheart with his sun-browned face,
And curling- hair, and back so broad and straight.
He did not see me in my shaded place.
I trembled, v ond’ring would my love look back,
And would he notice that my gown was soiled,
Or should I meet him coming down the track,
And would he laugh to see my hair was coiled.
A grey-haired stranger sharply spoke close by:
“Jack’s home—you’re wanted.” Slowly, one by one
The years came crowding in, and with a sigh
I went to get the dinner for our son.
VICTORIA.
Y
LANG SYNE.


ABRAHAM LINCOLN
The Great American Patriot and Statesman.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN’S VIEWS were stated in this way:
When an American pays dollars for steel to a foreign manu-
facturer, America has the steel and the foreigner has the dollars.
But when he pays dollars for steei to an American manufacturer
America has both the steel and the dollars.
Lincoln’s words are true to-day. When Australia sends outside the
Commonwealth for Iron and Steel, she does an injustice to Australians by
depriving them of work, and also places the Commonwealth at the mercy
of an enemy in the time of danger.
AUSTRALIAN IRON AND STEEL
Nothing else should be used in Australian Workshops


“Orient” Calf Lace Boots
Unusual Value at
The distinctive appearance always
given expression to in “Orient”
Footwear, together with the service-
giving qualities we know them to
possess, enables us to claim, with
every confidence, that no better
“boot values” are obtainable in
Sydney. Style illustrated, in Black
or Tan Calf, welted soles, round
toes and drill-lined. Sizes sto 10.
Two fittings to each size.
WE PAY CARRIAGE. *
«
David cJones
Cor Service
SYDNEY
Opp. G. P O.
Tel. Cijt.v 6) >6.
3216
3
££=s
B/irRmX
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
8-h.p. Unit Plant with reverse gear on same bed. Perfect
alignment guaranteed. The ideal engine for small speed boats.
Speed record up to date is 21| miles per hour, driving a 20ft. bj
4ft. 6in. beam Hand V Bottom boat, turning a 16in. x 20in. propeller.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK
of Caille Outboard and “Bantam” (Inboard) motors; also 1-, 2- and
4-cylinder types from 2 to 30 h.p., for light or heavy duty.
AH Engines Fitted with High-Tension Ignition.
Write or wire for Catalogue and full particulars of type of engine
you require to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA & PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 71-5 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and
Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
0316
tt iiiidiiis
.Talc Powder
l.s>
I
Williams’
laic Powde
CARNATIO N
rv-'Si
a
W 1
r ©
NE»«T 4 0/
SOFT, gently
soothing', com-
forting and
refreshing WIL-
LIAM’S CARNA-
TION TALCUM
POWDER posses-
ses a delicate fra-
grance and distinc-
tive charm which
instantly appeals.
The convenient
hinged cover Top
prevents leaking
and retains the de-
lightful perfume
in all its freshness.
You will find William’s
Violet. English Lilac.
Rose, Matinee (new) eq-
ually refreshing, whilst
“William’s” Baby Talc
(without odor) is the ideal
Powd r for Babies.
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
A trial sample tin
will be sent
post free
from
‘William’s’
Box 98
G.P.0.,
Sydney, on
receipt of
one
two-penny
stamp.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Spanker’s Mail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE came with a reinforcement draft
to our crowd, the third battalion of
the Maoriland Rifle Brigade, and
joined up in “Plug-street” Wood. Someone
nicknamed him Spanker because he was
from the cow-studded pastures of Taranaki,
and it stuck. He was a fresh-faced boy
with a burning desire to make good as a sol-
dier, and a readiness to “spring to it” at
the sar’n-major’s order that drew ribald jests
from trench-hardened old hands.
Snowy, the clink artist, hero of many mat
incidents, marked Spanker out as his own.
He clipped the nickname down to Spank,
and pretended an overwhelming interest m
the Taranaki boy. Spanker listened cheer-
fully as 'Snowy worked off all the old khaki
jests that stuck to the crowd like trench-
mud and vermin. He told Spanker that all
red-caps were heroes who were automatically
drafted into the M.P. branch as they won
the V.C.; that soldiering was a bon life after
the first seven years; that Blighty leave was
to be had at any time for the asking. And
Spanker smiled, and made. boyish replies,
and lent Snowy endless fags.
Spanker’s first mail arrived while we were
“out,” and Spanker was happy. There was
nothing strange in that. Even old hands
became almost human when they heard from
home.
Snowy, who never got any mail at any
time, manoeuvred to his side.
“Yer got a good mail, Spank,” he re-
marked sociably.
Spanker looked up with glowing face. ‘ A
bonzer!” he said.
“How’s the old people?”
Snowy was probably leading up to more
cleverness; but, maybe, some lingering trace
of homesickness softened him. They talked
on, and he appeared interested in Spanker’s
account of a cow sale and his sister’s mar-
riage to a bloke in camp, who was coming
away with a reinforcement.
A day or two later the parcels arrived.
We felt then that Snowy had only been using
his head. He had the run of Spanker’s col-
lection —good Taranaki cake and dinkum
tobacco and cigarettes.
The mateship grew. Spanker wrote home
frequently and voluminously. He per-
suaded his mate to write too. Snowy’s
mother was dead, but his old man was still
on deck —had, in fact, enlisted, but had
proved too old for service abroad; so they
had made him a cook in Trentham camp.
“ ’E was a bit broke up w’en I left,” said
Snowy. “I suppose ’e wonders if . I’m
pushin’ up the daisies yet. Anyway, I’ll
write to ’im. ’E might send a man a few
bob,” he added as an afterthought.
So Snowy wrote his opinions of army
rations and red-caps and other unpleasant
things, and an officer laboriously went
through the letter and censored it heavily.
A month or so later Spanker’s mail
stopped suddenly for no apparent reason.
Two mails arrived, but his name was not
called. (This happened to many soldiers
out there, and no one fathomed the reason
for the pause and then the sudden resump-
tion.) Spanker wilted under the neglect.
Snowy did his best to cheer him. He said
imaginatively that the same thing had often
happened to him. His mail took cranky
turns, ceased suddenly, and then came in a
perfect avalanche that kept a man reading
for days. He felt sure Spanker’s mail
would come like that. The other took heart,
and put on his grin once more.
Snowy’s forecast was correct. At dusk
one evening, back at Red Lodge, the crowd
lined up for mail. Spanker’s missing let-
ters had arrived —a large packet of them.
He stuffed them in his tunic pocket and
rushed for his possie in the tunnel to read
—read—read.
“Fall in the trench fatigue!’’
Spanker heard the order and came back
to earth. He had been “warned” previously.
Ah, well; the war was still on, and the
letters must wait!
Snowy and Spanker fell in together and
the party moved off. They tramped over
the crest of the hill and into the gas trench.
Darkness came on as they filed through the
subsids. and down the winding C.T. Along
the sap, past the supports, a notice-board
said “Keep down.” But it was too dark to
read, and, anyway, the crowd had often
been that way before without hearing the
snap of a bullet.
Somewhere away in the night a German
machine-gun clattered and grew quiet again.
Spanker went down so suddenly that Snowy
tripped over him.
“Are yer hit, Spank?” Snowy’s voice
sounded strained and queer in the darkness.
A couple of times Spanker heaved convul-
sively ; but he was past hearing or answer-
ing.
“Someone hit!”
The stretcher-bearers squeezed past the
line of halted men and straightened Spanker
on the canvas. Snowy knelt by him and, un-
buttoning the dead boy’s pocket, took out
the letters.
“Here, cut that out!” The sergeant’s
hand was on Snowy’s shoulder, and his
voice ripped out sharply and ominously. He
turned his torch on the kneeling man.
Snowy looked up. He spoke quietly, and
no one interrupted him. “You’ve known me
ever since we came over ’ere, Sergeant.
You’ve known me to do a few stretches in
clink fer diff’rent things; but neither you
nor no other cow ever saw me rob a dead
cobber. Spank was my mate. ’E was the
pick of the mob; an’ ’is old people’s waitin’
in Taranaki to ’ear from ’im. Later on
they’ll get ’is belongin’s. Wot would they
think if they got these letters back un-
opened—after bein’ taken from ’is tunic?
I’m goin’ to open them for ’im.”
Snowy’s jack-knife ripped through the en-
velopes' one by one in the light of the torch.
No one spoke as he slipped the letters back
and rebuttoned the pocket.
The stretcher-bearers lifted their load.
Snowy waited till they began their laborious
journey towards the rear. Then he moved
off with bowed head in the wake of the
trench fatigue.
RIVERINA.


iiiimimiiifiiimiiii
VI
I km
M
m
P
a
iimw
m
m §
iwmi
\m\
m
=!
■
= 5
iiunuuiiimniiiiihlniiiminiumniil|\|illllUliiiUllUjHH»imiHlillU\HlllUllUluU\llUlHiuuHt
:
S
= tgs*
=; ";
S s
5
w\^v:
\\\S
\\"
m
E s
-r =
wH
i iitii'iinil
l( tii«iuuvu\
m
Goodyear Belts are designed and built
for every kind of belting service
Transmission for
whatever kind of service
will be adequately deliv-
ered by a Goodyear belt
designed and built for the partic-
ular conditions under which it
must work. And it is not alone
that the belt is specially suited
to the work in hand ; not alone
that it grips and insures greater
production for the power con-
sumed, that the service is
remarkable during the life of the
belt.
It is the length of that life —
the ability to stand up for pro-
tracted periods under the most
drastic and ruinous conditions.
Where belting works with metal
ores or wood; with wool or clay;
with sugar cane or stone, the
cost of transmission is high.
There is always some one drive
that is intensely severe. Indus-
tries which handle crushed stone
—cement, crushed rock, etc. —
suffer very heavy production
costs unless economical, stub-
born - wearing belting of the
Goodyear quality and standard
is installed to resist the ravages
of the working conditions.
The evidence of men using
Goodyear Belts under the worst
and most exacting conditions
is unanimous. The economy;
the absence of slippage—due to
the flexible, gripping friction-
surface —and positive reliability
of the belts are vouched for by
numerous independent and dis-
interested observers.
You have the right at any time
to call for the advice of the
Goodyear technical man, who
will demonstrate how to adapt
your belts to the actual con-
ditions of work. His specialised
knowledge and continuous
experience of results will assist
you to secure not only the
maximum service in belts, and
consequent economies of factory
operation, but will insure the
effective transmission of power
with its accompaniment of
maximum output of machines
or plant.
Our specification of Goodyear
Belting carries with it the accep-
tance of responsibility for its
satisfactory service and wear.
STOCKS OF GOODYEAR MECHANICAL RUBBER GOODS ARE NOW CARRIED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA BY
ELDER, SMITH & CO. LIMITED
ADELAIDE MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE PERTH
SK 181
tIIaHHKRIRi
G 'BELTING ■ HOSE - VALVES |
'
a mmm
Wti&BßSi M:


%
%
%
1
IR
Sr-,
m
W'
s,
PERFORMANCE
OU can find no safer guide in selecting your
belting than the experience of others.
The above illustration (drawn from an actual photograph) shows
a 7-ply DICK’S BALATA BELT, transmitting 200h.p. in the
plant of Messrs. A. Forsyth & Co., Ltd., Rope Works, Waterloo—
a company noted for its progressive methods.
Driving from an 85in. pulley on to a 96in. pulley this DICK
BELT stands solidly against the severity of the gruelling test
imposed upon it by an intermittent Gas-engine Drive. The width
of the belt is 28in. and the length 85ft. in circumference.
This is the main drive—the main artery as it were—that feeds
the machinery with the requisite power in these huge works that
are meeting the enormous demand for rope in Australia and other
countries.
Length of Service, General Efficiency, Continuous Operation and
Power-saving were the determining factors in the decision of
Messrs. A. Forsyth & Co., Ltd., to use only DICK’S ORIGINAL
BALATA BELTING on this drive.
Why not prove to your own satisfaction that Dick’s Balata Belting-
will serve you as faithfully as it is serving Messrs. A. Forsyth
& Co., Ltd.
On request a practical man carefully trained in belting problems
will call on you. WRITE US FOR FREE COPY OF THE
BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIE g CO. LTD.
SYDNEY:
2 York Street,
MELBOURNE:
581-3 Little Collins
Street.
ADELAIDE:
30 Currie Street
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street,
BRISBANE.
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BDTTERLAC
is a SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of all Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
BUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION,
INSOMNIA,
HEADACHES,
RHEUMATISM,
KIDNEY and LIVER
DERANGEMENTS
and All Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults, Children and Infants.
Bulterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, LTD., Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO.,
Adelaide.
W. H. Lucas, for many years Islands
manager for Burns, Philp and Co., was
lately appointed to some job or other in
connection with the new ex-German pos-
sessions in the Pacific. What the job is
has not been clearly defined ; but it is un-
dei stood to be related chiefly, or, at any
rate, largely, to the properties of German
cos. and individuals to be expropriated by
tlie Commonwealth Government. The powers
given to the Government in this connection
are immense: no other Peace Treaty that
was ever made in modern times deals with
private property as this one does. Hitherto
unwiitten international law has protected
the property of the private individuals of
a defeated I ower, even in territory which
was taken over by the victor. Those who
dictated the terms of peace to Germany saw
two things, however: (1) the utterly un-
precedented cost of the war to the Allies:
(2) the wisdom of so dealing with Germany
that it could not for many years to coine
again seriously threaten the peace of the
world. France, as represented by its Prime
Minister Olemenceau, was naturally most in-
terested on the latter point. Clcmenceau
had lived through two invasions of his be-
loved country. He exerted all his tremend-
ous influence to make that second invasion
the last: and lie believed that it could only
be done by stripping every feather from
the eagle s wings and paring its daws to
the flesh.
Probably because so many cooks were con-
cerned in the making of the broth, and be-
cause each wanted the broth to have some
special quality, the brew is like nothing that
was ever brewed before. Instead .of a
compact Peace Treaty, saying in a few plain
words what it meant to say, it is a most
rambling document, whose provisions are
often vague, frequently overlapping, occa-
sionally apparently in conflict. So far as
the Pacific colonies are concerned, Article
119 says that Germany cedes “all her rights
vJiFI titles over her oversea possessions.”
If Gerniany has incurred public debts in
developing those properties it keeps the
debts and nothing else. Article 122 takes
the matter further and provides that the
new owner or the mandatory Power may
repatriate any German and prescribe the
conditions upon which any German “of
European origin” shall “be' allowed to re-
side, hold property, trade or exercise a pro-
fession” in the territory taken over. Further,
within the colonies taken over “the Allies
and Associated Powers” —U.S.A. not being
an Ally—“reserve the right to retain and
liquidate all property, rights and interests
belonging.... to German nationals or com-
panies controlled by them.” If the German
individuals or cos. are to get paid for this
property, they must look to their own Gov-
ernment to do it.
What the Commonwealth Government is
to do with the properties or the money de-
rived from the sale of the properties is not
as clear as it might be. What it may do
with some of it is quite clear, however. It
may use it to pay the debts due to any Aus-
tralian by any German, Austrian, Hun-
garian, Bulgarian or Turk. Apparently the
Broken Hill cos. which had claims against
the Hirsches, for instance, may draw upon
this fund if they can persuade the Govern-
ment that their claims were just. After
such claims have been met the balance may
be paid to Germany—and the Wild Cat can
see them all doing it! —ox; be passed to the
Reparation Commission for use in paying
out indemnity. That &ny Government with
a claim for indemnity will rush the Repara-
tion Commission with the money is unlikely.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush
even if the bush belongs to that Commis-
sion.
Under the articles just epitomised (121
and 297) there seems to be a small doubt
whether the Commonwealth can work the
expropriated properties on its own account.
The article says that the Power may “re-
tain and liquidate ” all or any German pro-
perty. though it doesn’t say when the liquida-
tion shall be proceeded with. There are,
howevei’, other provisions which would en-
able the Allies to take over the pi’operties,
no matter where they might be—even in
Berlin itself. Thus the Reparation Com-
mission can demand, up to May 1, 1921,
payment of £1,000.000,000 “in gold, commo-
dities, ships, securities or otherwise”; and
this applies to German property anywhere.
At the same time it is noi: likely that the Com-
monwealth Government <ould put enough
pressiu'e upon the Reparation Commission
to induce it to use any portion of this credit
in purchasing what could be expropriated
without payment; _ but it shows the bitter-
ness of the pill which Germany had to swal-
low at Paris. Incidentally, those who com-
plain of the deportation of Germans from
Australia plainly do not realise the power
over the property of Germans which was
yielded to the Allies by the German pleni-
potentiaries at Paris. There is apparently
not a stick of property owned by a German
in Australia or any other country which
cannot be taken over by the Reparation
Commission up to May 1 next in satisfac-
tion of this German lOU for £1,000,000,000.
There is reason to believe that, if things
go right with him during the next month
or two, Hughes will proceed north and fin-
ally settle, so far as he can, the policy that
is to be pursued with regard to German
property in the ex-German colonies, in par-
ticular New Guinea. It was largely with
a view to the collection of the necessary
data that General Griffiths, who had proved
himself at Horseferry-i’oad, was sent to
Rabaul as Administrator: and presumably
W. H. Lucas’s new work will be either to
realise the properties or to work them and
mailcet the proceeds—and the proceeds must
be very considerable by this time.
* * * *
“Fine Gold”: Hampton Plains and neigh-
boring fields have created records for uncon-
firmed assays and unjustifiable boost. At
the start of the boom good values were re-
ported almost everywhere, but coming along
later I and others were unable, in nearly
every lode or reef sampled, to obtain more
than a dwt. or two, and in some cases we
could not even get a color. The early reports
on some of the holdings surrounding the Cele-
bration, Mutooroo and White Hope men-
tioned rich assays, but on not one of them
did fair samples give payable results. Feel-
ing a bit disheartened, a few inquisitive
speculators and I decided to have a change
of scene, and made for Mt. Monger, where
optimists had talked of the existence of an-
other Golden Mile. All we could see were
some shallow trenches, two or three shafts
sunk a few feet and small heaps of ore
broken from a patch or short shoot here
and there. If there was anything else on
the field apart from the Lass o’ Gowrie
“golden hole” worth mentioning it escaped
our notice. Later on we visited Ive’s Find,
and although in a couple of instances values
were somewhere near the official estimate, in
one notable case only a few dwts. were got
where ounces had been reported. The Re-
velation line on Block 48 was another place
where our assays fell far short of official
values,' and the same remark applies to
some of the pegged country south of the
White Hope on the same area.
* » * *
Sons of Gwalia last year paid a Is. divi-
dend, “primarily out of Australian profits.”
This absorbed £16,250, and after writing
off £7OOO for development £4754 was left to
carry forward. Labor shortage and “other
difficulties” (which are not detailed) have
prevented the full employment of the plant
and held up mine development. Working
expenses, excluding developmental charges,
were 225. 6d. per ton. Is. 6d. more than for
the previous year. Ore reserves are estimated
to provide slightly over three vears’ supply
for the mill.
* * * •
Despite repeated failures to fulfil pro-
mises, Gwalia Central (W.A.) still carries
bn. At the outset early prosperity was
assured, then it was announced that the best
values would be found at depth; later still
shareholders were tapped for more money to
provide pumps to keep down the water met
with in sinking. Then came delay owing to
war, and the installation of this plant was
only recently completed. Very little is said
about values nowadays, and as the co. pro-
poses to raise further capital to acquire
other ventures the inference is that the man-
agement is not sure of prospects of the mine
at depth.
* * *' * *
Wolfram Camp (N.Q.) is looking very
blue, and the big co. which at great expense
installed new plant is feeling verv sick. The
fall in wolfram and molybdenite prices has
been a knock-out. At Bamford, near by,
the same conditions prevail. The State bat-
tery and concentrating plant are idle, and
the officials are hunting round for stone of
any sort to give the plant an occasional run.
Why a mill (it’s a five-head affair) was ever
installed in this place at a cost of thou-
sands of Government money is a matter
nobody appears to be able to explain.
* * * *
The cobalt find recently reported from
the Cloncurry (Q.) district by prospector
Mark Eves is only a prospect yet, but tbe
lode has been traced some hundreds of feet,
and several shafts sunk have revealed an
ore that has not been approached for grade
anywhere else in the world. Part of the
lode is solid cobaltite, assaying up to 30
p.c. metal —extraordinarily pure for cobalt
ores. Erythyrite is also plentiful in the
lode. Up to the present the cobalt market has
been controlled, and the supply has always
exceeded the demand. But the demand will
increase as the properties of “stellite,” the
cobalt-chromium alloy, become more widely
known. It is likely to cut out high-speed
steels to some extent, and a modification of
it is now being increasingly used for rustless
cutlery and dental and surgical instruments.
Further, cobalt is likely to displace nickel
for high-grade plated ware.
# # * *
Bundaleer (S.A.) water system, highly
thought of when installed, is getting dis-
owned on all hands. Wallaroo and Moonta
Mining Co., on a deputation to the Minister
for Works, said the water is getting worse
all the time, and now damages boilers and
machinery to such an extent that it takes
a shilling div. away from the shareholders
every year. The Minister admitted every-
thing. The Bundaleer water is not suitable
for household purposes, or for anything but
stock; and he proposes to supply the copper-
mines and the three towns that have sprung
up around them from some distant reservoir,
or else make a new one close by.
* # * *
“Good Australian”: The world is on the
brink of an oil crisis. Big wells in Mexico
have become exhausted and are running
salt water instead of petroleum. For eight
years the oilfields of Potrero and Tepetate
had produced 150 million barrels of crude
oil, and the end of these gushers means
that Mexico, in its disturbed state, will be
a negligible factor. The U.S.A. position is
little better. There the demand is increasing
much faster than the wells and oilfields.
From 70 million barrels of oil in 1901 pro-
duction increased to 433 million barrels in
1919, and demand keeps well ahead." Ameri-
can railways and steamships are all using
fuel oil, and this means so much less petrol
and kerosene. The U.S. Navy is copying
the British, and all its new fighting ships
are oil-burners. Where is the oil coming
from to meet these new demands? Not from
the United States. In 1919 29.000 wells
were drilled there, and only 21,000 pro-
duced petroleum. The president of the
Standard Oil Co. declares that the demand
will be 650 million barrels of crude oil in
1925, or 220 millions more than America
produced in 1919. Britain produces 2J p.c.
of the world’s supply, which explains her
eagerness to get oil for her navy from unde-
veloped countries like Persia,. Mesopotamia
and Papua. Asquith says it will cost
£52,000,000 to subdue Mesoootamia, and if
the Reds get control of Persia it would
be good-night to the Anglo-Persian Oil Co.’s
wells, which are not important producers
in any case. Under those circumstances, the
folly of forbidding private prospecting for
oil m Papua and German New Guinea is
obvious.


\»
. V S^ S
sn
>
MW!
HI II IS 91
»
1
Sfe
i F
r
W
g?
«
§ll
.*••’**
(ft
m
:••••:
ii
f
f
•>vjs
A Million
Rubber Trees Are
Tapped Continually
in the East Indian plantations of
the United States Rubber Company.
Oyer five thousand young rubber
trees are planted there every day.
Over five million trees are now
under cultivation.
Imagine the extent of this scientific
production of rubber. It means the
finest foundation for the finished
rubber articles.
That is where good rubber comes
from. It goes into the many good
rubber products that bear the seal
of the United States Rubber Com-
pany-—the world’s largest rubber
manufacturer. They are good be-
cause they have this good foundation
and because the forty-seven great
factories of the United States Rub-
ber Company are standardized to
maintain this goodness throughout
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
Head Office: 53 York Street, Sydney.
Australian Branches: 130-2 William Street, Melbourne.
78 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand Branches: 72-4 Jervois Quay, Wellington; and
Christchurch.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident § Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-I!>9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS.
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
TARIFF
12'- pen Day
6'6 Beds Breakfast
C.R.Kem
Proprietor
45 Swanston 5f
A Melbourne i
Hotel,
King IV
'V'Y
4*
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Bad Australian”: The girls had picked
up a what-not (or it may have been a how-now)
and a palm in a fancy pot at a bargain sale in the
township, and when the contraption was placed in
the vacant corner of the living-room alongside the
dresser, with the palm on top, the combination was
considered a highly-attractive addition to the decora-
tions of the home. A pair of diminutive birds, known
locally as wrens, which roosted <in the scrub near by
and regularly irrvaded the house in search of tit-
bits, were so impressed by the beauty and utility
of the outfit that they immediately set to work to
establish a nursery in the fork of the palm. The
birds worked as if their lives depended on finishing
their job, one of them doing the transport and the
other the building and weaving, and on the evening
of the fourth day the nest was in working order.
When the young birds begjin to try their wings
they would hop off with a wild flutter and lob on the
table, the dresser or the floor, causing no end of
trouble for the first few days. As they grew older
they would fly about the house, taking short rests
on the furniture or any member of the family who
happened to be handy. Eventually they took to
living in the scrub, making occasional visits to the
house ; and, although the nest on the palm was left
intact in the hope that it would be used again,
the birds seemed to have lost interest in the old .home
and raised their next family in the scrub as afore-
time.
* * * *
“Taipo”: In Canterbury (M.L.) the
McKenzie Plains, in and about the Mt. Cook district,
are not up to standard even for soldier settlements,
and each sheep needs five to 10 acres as a dinner-
table. Jumbuck spends a deal of his time galloping
about looking for likely tucker among the native
tussock. The land is high and the winters are
severe; occasionally 6ft. of snow lies there for weeks
on end. When the forecast smells unusually bad, the
sheep start across country and foregather in tens and
twenties, generally in a hollow where a drift is bound
to form, and in 12 hours they are 10ft. down from the
snow surface. They may stay there for days, and
when they do they burrow considerably and comb the
ground for tussock and roots. When the pantry is
empty one or two cave in early and the others sit
around and have wool for lunch. As a rule it is
also a last supper. I once found four with their
flanks stripped in patches, and five more dead with
wool-balls in their mouths. Don’t know how long a
sheep can last in a drift, but lots of them have to
hang out for over a week. Early and late snows
invariably mean stiff losses to the run-holder—far
stiffer losses than are due to the other big pest of the
McKenzie Plains, the kea, and he is bad enough.
# * * *
“Yacko”: Insects must have much greater
vitality than the lesser animals. I opened what
should have been a packet of poisoned wheat, and
found nothing but live weevil's and husks. The
same wheat when whole is guaranteed to kill mice,
rats and sparrows; and I’ve known it to kill ’pos-
sums as well.
“Cape Pork”: Stepper Davis and his
brother-goat yarn reminds me of a race I witnessed
in Atherton (N.Q.) years ago. The race
was for Chinamen jocks only, and the
dark horse was a big chestnut called
Ginger. The jock had been let into the
know, and the horse went out backed
by the few at long odds. Now, by all
the laws the horse should have romped
home, but the Chow had put his brother
Chinks wise, and the favorite was
heavily backed by the Chows. To the
surprise of all that had backed the dark
horse, Johnny came up the straight hang-
ing on to the bit, sitting back and pull-
ing like a good ’un and ending the pro-
cession. Of course he was called up to
account for his behavior. But the stew-
ards could think of nothing more than a
“caution for life.” To which Johnny
replied: “Tankee welly muchee.” His troubles! It
was the first race he had ever ridden, and would
probably be the last, anyway.
“To Po”: With three others a mate of
mine was doing a sporting trip in Maoriland. Far
from anywhere they ran out of butter, and became
ravenous for any form of grease. They also found
that the excessively-damp weather caused their guns
to rust. Near a hot spring they discovered a
Maori but, and on a 'shelf a basin of lard. They
borrowed the grease, tried it on bread, and found
it most appetising. Not only so, but a few appli-
cations caused their weapons to glisten like a
Prince-trooper’s spurs. The Maori returned, wel-
comed them heartily, and was generally OK until
he saw my mate slapping some of his grease on a
lump of damper. So unaccountably lurid did he
become then that the quartette were compelled to
sit on his chest. When he calmed down he explained
that a week before his missus had fallen into a
bubbling hot-spring, and he had been skimming
her off the top of the water ever since!
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : In parts of inland Papua,
if a man dies during the day the people, however
great their need, will not replenish their water
supply from their usual spring that day. They
fear the evil spirits who come to the spring to
wash the stains off their hands. Every death is
put down to the influence of spirits, but if a man
dies during the night no stain gets on to the hands
of the spirit, and consequently it has no need to
wash. I once inadvertantly gave some natives a
bad scare. I pitched my camp near a native
village on the day that a death had occurred. Next
morning, not liking the look of the water, I tested
it with Condy’s crystals before using it. When the
natives arrived they could see traces of red in the
water, and immediately bolted. My explanations
were doubtfully received, and for nearly a week
they preferred to carry their water from a spring
nearly three miles away. And, as a rule, they are
not so terribly fond of work.
SUMMARY JURISDICTION.
LANDLORD: “What yer doin’ with that rock, Billy?”
BILLY : “Gimme plarry drink or mine tinkit I smash yer license.”
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: Apparently the
lead-colored snake is as venomous as the black or
the brown. But I didn’t know it till the other
day when I saw a little fox-terrier bitten and
die within two hours. And I reckoned I knew
all there was to know about the crawlers!
“Gagi”: Those record post-hole tallies for
a single sitting are no test. They are usually put
in with soft weather, soft soil and a soft witness.
But time tells. Bert Molon, of Northern New South,
spent Monday to Friday plugging and planting 1073
in good weather. He tramped Saturday and Sunday
—rain all the second day—and planted 595 during
the next three days, with the ground soggy and
his hands soft from the spell. That made his
average 209 a day for eight days, working 12 to
16 hours a day. For me that 505 a day record
(B. IS/ 5/ ’2O) demands too much of the soul’s
foundation —faith.
“Billy Burton”: Re smart dogs. I’ve had
two. Went on a ’roo-killing expedition. No. 1
dog took after a big old-man across plain country.
The dog was bringing up the rear, and was about
20 yards distant from the ’roo, when they approached
a sft. fence. To clear the fence the ’roo left the
ground about 15ft. from it. Simultaneously the
dog took off about 20 yards further back, and
had the ’roo by the throat before touching mother
earth in the next paddock. The other is a grey-
hound pup, nine months old, which put up a good
stunt after a hare during a heavy thunderstorm
on the black-soil plains near Breeza (N.S.W.).
After a short chase the hare disappeared unaccount-
ably. At the same time a flash of lightning ap-
peared immediately in front. The dog took after
the flash, and succeeded in biting it through three
times before it disappeared.
* * * *
“Billy T.” : Outback is earnestly advised
to beware of “Box’s” simple recipe for clearing drink-
ing water by the use of alum. He is quite correct in
his ejaim that the alum causes sediment to sink to
the bottom, but the sediment in ordinary water is
calculated to do far less mischief to the works than
an alum solution. We used to clear our water to
some extent by dropping large junks of fiery wood-
charcoal, or a well-burnt log still red from the fire,
into the butt. This was fairly effective, and quite
wholesome; but when put on to alum we found the
whole family corded into knots at midnight. Drink
alum-cleared water habitually, and in a few months
you’ll find your digestive apparatus slowing up to
such an extent that its movements will be scarcely
appreciable, and an ordinary piece of duff will stand
by you for a week, feeling all the while like a hot
flatiron set with fish-hooks.
* * * *
“X.Y.”: “Wynbring” asks (B. 10/6/’2O)
if any other Abo. has ever seen an eagle attack a
dingo. I haven’t, but I’ve heard Father Klein
describe such a struggle. The dingo, a “tame” one,
had three half-grown pups, which were playing in the
open, when an eagle swooped and missed a pup. The
mother took a hand, and the eagle promptly trans-
ferred his attentions to her. At the second or third
swoop he fixed his talons in the dingo’s back, and rose.
But the fight was not yet over; it was only trans-
ferred from the earth to the air. The dingo twisted
her head and body round till she could grasp the left
wing of the eagle at the point where it joins the
body. Increasing her hold on the wing, she thus, in
addition to injuring the wing, destroyed the flying
balance of the eagle. The fight in the air was soon
over, though the eagle put up a great struggle. Once
on the ground it was the dingo’s day, and the eagle
ended suddenly. The weight of the dingo was 171 b.,
while the eagle weighed only 12 Jib.
OUTDOOR SPORT.
JACK ASHORE: “Well, the blolce who in-
vented umbrellas had a headpiece an
him all right. They’re a great pastime
on a wet day.”
“Belmont”: A curious bush superstition,
specially prevalent among drovers, is that a man
who has no hair on his chest is a thief. Many a
time I have seen a chest inspection going on when
some article had been missed, and woe betide the
hairless man.
(Continued from page 26.)
COONAMBLE ON THE CASTLEREAGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My keen eyes pierced the blinding haze which hung
above the dusty road,
And I beheld her roofs ablaze as through the red-
gum trees I strode;
A careless boy, I sang with joy, though burdened on
a summer’s day,
When first I saw the sun illume Coonamble on the
Castlereagh.
I halted on her traffic bridge
And watched the shadows play.
Beneath the leaves that flashed and gleamed
A fresh of turgid water streamed
Along the Castlereagh.
In greyest autumn I have seen her smoke curl sky-
ward from afar ;
I’ve heard, when all the earth was green, the jackass
and the wild galah
Their shrill, uneven stanzas fling across the flats at
break of day,
And stir to life, in early spring, Coonamble on the
Castlereagh.
Through waving grass I’ve seen them pass—
White, woolly flocks in May.
On evenings clear and starry-eyed
I’ve watched the careless drovers ride
Beside the Castlereagh.
While red war held me at its feet a captive through
the ghastly hours,
The while I rode through grove and street by Orient
domes and shapely towers,
By alien villages astir in regions fair and far away,
My heart was ever home with her —Coonamble on
the Castlereagh.
Though storms of war on fields afar
Laid waste the dreams of day,
AVhen freed from long duress and pain,
By night at times I’d see again
The w’inding Castlereagh.
CONFIDENCES.
RETIRING CURATE: “Friends, ah—I will
not call you ladies and gentlemen, I—
er—know you too well!”
I strode again, ah, older grown, to see the sunlight
on her roofs.
Alas, the famished flats were strown with rotting
hides and severed hoofs!
The skies were clear, the earth was sere, and, though
it was the month of May,
Relentless was the sun that smote Coonamble on the
Castlereagh.
The sheep were spare in paddocks bare
Where famine held its sway,
While starving mares and hungry foals
Lay drowsing by the waterholes
Adown the Castlereagh.
When, after weeks of winter rain, healed are the
gaping wounds of earth,
Across the waving grass again I’ll catch the magio
voice of mirth;
And I shall see on slope and tree spring blossoms
on a waking day,
And watch the morning sun caress Coonamble on the
Castlereagh.
Again I hear bush voices clear,
Where leafy branches sway,
Give promise of a golden yield
In every harrowed harvest field
Along the Castlereagh.
N.s.w.
GERARDY.


A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15et. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3.
Knife-edge
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond
Cluster Necklet, 15ct-
Gold, £l5.
W
$ If
SH
A. Saunders' 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, compensation balance,
£lO. Others, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £l2/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Circle
Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
three-stone Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double cut
Diamond Trefoil
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
single double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold £2O.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Hunting Keyless
Waltham Lever, full jewelled, compensa-
tion balance movement, £l2/10/-
Extra jewelled, £l5, £l7/10/-, £2O.
18ct. Gold, £25, £3O, £4O, £5O.
Guaranteed.
Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15et. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-over
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Single-stone
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18cC Gold,
SEND FOR LATEST ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
WE POST ALL ORDERS FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Cluster Three-bar Bracele
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A.- Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond and Pearl
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5.
t
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, double-cut Diamond, Patent
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £2O. Guaranteed.
The Art of Song Accompaniment.
u
m
i:,
m- ■
SSi»
■,<
V
A
CCOMPANISTS are born —not made.
The truth of this is realised every day,
and singers are continually hampered
by a lack of sympathetic treatment of their
songs. Even the accomplished pianist cannot
be expected to play every song from sight, or
at short notice to transpose a song to a
different key. All this can be done with an
AUTOTONE PLAYER PIANO
“THE PERFECT ACCOMPANIST.”
No technical difficulties will baffle this wonderful instrument. It will play
every class of music. With an “Autotone” singers are perfectly accompanied,
and their songs can be played in any key to suit their voices, and played faultlessly.
MAY WE DEMONSTRATE IT TO YOU?
The “Accompanist” is a Special
Device Fitted to the Autotone
for the Playing of All Accom-
paniments.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
PALING’S,
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
“Caruso” has used an “Auto-
tone” for the Past Five Years.
EASY TERMS.


Remarkable Recovery of Mrs. McGinley, Ultimo, N.S.W.
Given up as incurable through Neuritis, but saved by CLEMENTS TONIC
THIS LETTER IS WRITTEN BY WILLIAM McGINLEY, HER HUSBAND, WHO VOUCHES FOR EVERY WORD OF IT
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
I write you relative to my wife, who has
been taking Clements Tonic for some time. Her
complaint is Multi-Neuritis, a most terrible
malady. She was discharged from a local hos-
pital as incurable and anointed for death by the
parish priest. I then, at the eleventh hour, tried
Clements Tonic, and the first few bottles gave
her relief, the only medicine that did.
When she got out of bed she could only
walk wish the aid of a stick, and only with my
assistance, while still taking the tonic. She at
last discarded the stick, and now she is walking
pretty fair.
I know, and the neighbors round about
here know, that it was nothing but Clements
Tonic that worked such a wonder in her
after having gone through oain for so long.
I am, yours gratefully,
WILLIAM McGINLEY.
Mrs. McGinley lives in Bulwarra Street, Ultimo,
a Sydney suburb, and can be seen any day in proof
of the above statement. Clements Tonic can be relied
upon for the relief of Want of Sleep, Debility, Weak
Nerves, Lassitude, Indigestion and Constipation. It
gives new .nerve, strength and energy.
GET IT TO-DAY AND GET WELL,
IT IS THE BEST OF TONICS.
AH Chemists and Stores sell this world-famous medicine. Get it and recover that lost health.
L.L.YV. : Frank Elliott, of North Wood-
bum, Richmond River (N.S.W.), made excellent
blotting-paper from hyacinth bulbs 10 years ago.
lie has also experimented with prickly-pear and has
now growing in his freak garden spineless pear, which
he claims to be the best fattener for cattle and pigs.
Rut he seems to lack the knack of marketing his ideas.
Nalla Dooh”: Here are a few dishes
which did not appear on the menu at the Gov.-
General’s dinner to the Prince. (1) The sea urchin
or ‘-sea egg” of our kiddies’ seaside holidays. Break
the shell carefully anil scrape out the fleshy lining.
It takes a large number to make a meal, but the
tucker is good. Resembles oysters. (2) The fish
from the trochus-shell for soup. (3) Smoke-dried
whitebait and ditto prawns. (4) Shark cooked in
a stone oven. (5) Boiled native sago rolled in
grated cocoanut. (6) Not least, a salad made from
the inner tend'er leaves of the cocoanut-palm crown.
All the above can be sampled anywhere in the
South Seas. P.S.—Forgot to mention seaweed, which
is equal to imported caviare in flavor.
* * * *
"Walker”: For hobble-straps I pin my
faith to rubber. Make ’em from worn-out motor tyres-
Cut into the required size, this is the dinkum stuff.
It doesn’t cut a young horse, doesn’t need the
looking after that leather and greenhide do, and
wears as well as any other thing. Buy a Rolls
Royce and try.
* * * *
“Gundaghi”: On good, flat plain-country,
with properly bored fencing posts, carefully erected,
one should (theoretically) lie able to look through
what would appear to be a long tube — i.e., each hole
should be exactly in line with its neighbors. A solid
fencer drew my attention to this, and, on looking
through, I noticed that the “tube” was blocked and
guessed a post was unevenly bored, showing the solid
part. The fencer bent down and squinted through.
“That’s all right,” he said, “it’s only the strainer.”
And it was —150 yards away!
* * * *
“J.G.” : Would not advise people to go in
for building pis 6 houses as suggested by “Zanthus”
(B. 10/6/’2O), as they wear away quickly, and it
it almost impossible to face them with anything to
make a neat job. Adobe, which is not pise, but
miles better, can be constructed just as cheaply and
about as quickly; but when properly made it will
last for centuries. It is on record that an adobe
church erected in San Francisco sometime in the
15th or 16th centuries by 6ome old Spanish priests
resisted both the earthquake and the fire that fol-
lowed. Adobe is the Spanish name for sun-dried mud.
Instead of being rammed into the casings it is
mixed with water until it gets like stiff mortar,
and is then shovelled into the casing, and well pug-
ged. Short straw, grass, pine needles, etc., mixed
with the mud make a better adobe. The most con-
venient way of erecting adobe buildings is to first
mix the mud, and then, instead of making long
rows with the aid of the casings, make it into
bricks say about 14in. x 7in. x 9in. Dry them in
the sun until they get hard, and then stack them
until wanted. The main thing is, when building, to
be sure and cement them with the same stuff as
they are made of. Some failures of mud-brick houses
are due to the fact that the builders cement them
with sand and lime like orthodox burnt bricks.
HIS TROUBLES!
DOCTOR: “ What did you want to see me about?”
PATIENT: “Well, I know my heart's cronk, and my liver’s gone back on me, and I’m
not proud of my kidneys; but in a general way there isn’t much the matter. It’s
really my corn that worries me.”
This mortar comes away from the adobe bricks, be-
cause it contracts more quickly than the mud mortar,
In very warm climates a few rows of fencing wire
or hoopiron run along the top of a row of bricks
here and there will stop the walls from cracking,
A well-built mud or adobe house will last prac-
tically for ever, if an occasional thin mixture of
half-lime and half-cement is slapped on with an
ordinary whitewash brush. A more ornate wall is
made by planing it level and then give it a good
coat of linseed oil. It will then take any color-
paint desired.
‘‘Euro": Perhaps I can add a bit to “Jim
Carew's” description of the Centralian abbs.’ kiditcha
boots (B. 20/5/’2O). In the Macdonnell Range
dialects “kiditcha” means devil-devil, and is a
name given by Binglii to the wide range of things
he regards as mysterious. The kiditcha boot, so
called, is made so that toe and heel are alike. The
footwear is attached by an ankle thong, and is em-
ployed by Binghi when he wishes his identity and
his whereabouts kept secret. While any black-
fellow can name the owner of any footprint he sees
in his own country, not the sharpest discerner can
tell by the track of this boot which way the
wearer is proceeding.
* * * »
“Adelaide”: The ’possum has been com-
pletely protected in South Aus. for eight 3’ ears, and
has taken full advantage of it. Half the suburban
houses of the capital now have nightly riots as of young
elephants on the roof, and almonds, soft fruit and
even rosebuds suffer. The whole southern part of the
State joins in the complaint. As a result ’possum-
hunting is to be allowed in the three winter months,
and a tremendous slaughter is likely to be the result.
Kangaroo Island, however, remains a sanctuary for all
wild things as before. ~ 1
* * * «
Yarrum”: For 40 years I’ve wandered
over N. S. Wales, and these things I have never
seen a Chinaman shoeing a horse, a death-adder
over 30 inches long, a snake swallowing its young,
a jackass killing any snake much bigger than a
worm, and a blackfellow carrying the baby.
* * * #
“Veronal”: Australia owns the biggest
crab in the world. There is a specimen of him
(Pseudocavanus gigas) in the Australian Museum.
The monster lives at the bottom of Bass Strait, and
apparently nowhere else. He measures about 18in.
across the shell, and has nippers that would take
a man’s hand off at the wrist if the creature exerted
his full strength. The giant crab is edible, but he’s
too letiring in habit to be of any economic value.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The question of the stone imple-
ments alleged to have been used by the Australian
and Tasmanian abos (B. 10/6/’2O) is full of catches
and puzzles. It is agreed that the Tasmanians
chipped but did not grind or polish their stone
implements, and they never put a handle on them;
they used the tools to sharpen spears, shape waddies,
cut toe-holds in the bark for tree-climbing, and that
was pretty well all. It is doubtful whether they used
stone knives for skinning or cutting up animals. Old
hands who knew the blacks say that they cooked
their ’possums by throwing them on the fire, fur and
all, and tore up the cooked provender with teeth and
hands. At Ryan’s Hill, not far from Dunalby, I once
saw dug up a stone shaped like a sickle and about a
foot long which appeared to have been roughly
chipped by human hands. Some neolithic Europeans
are alleged to have used stone sickles, but the Tas-
manian abos. had nothing to reap with them. It is
only one more puzzle set by the lost Tasmanian
race, like their unaccountable habit of leaving their
bones in remote and almost inaccessible places such as
the Maatsuyker or the top of Tasman Island. As
to the more advanced Australians, one outstanding
riddle is the use they made of the huge stone axes,
up to 61b. in weight, which have been found in
Western Victoria. It does not seem possible to have
used them without handles, and to put handles on
them would have been a big job. Anyway, they did
not cut down trees, and a tool like this would be
altogether too heavy and cumbersome for the bark-
cutting, boomerang-making and other jobs which they
had to do. They might have been symbols, or objects
of worship, or something, but no one has ever accused
the Victorian abos. of indulging in such things except
the enthusiasts who found a stone altar at Mary-
borough (Vic.) and said that it had been used for
sun-worship.
“Warrie”: Scene, main street of Gobbel-
emup; time, mid-morning. It was race-day at
Tincan Gully. Gobbelemup was the change station
for trains. In front of the pub was a collection of
sports, including a sprinkling of the brethren of
the bag and their clerks, all fqll of contempt for
the one-horse town which temporarily held them.
THE IRONY OF IT.
WIFE : “I see Briggs has had his wife killed .”
HUBBY : “Not a bad idea."
Down the street stalked a lineman intent upon a
telephone fault —a long, lean, hopeless-looking Aus-
tralian who carries upon one shoulder a long bamboo
with which he can untangle wires without climbing
poles. As he approached the group one of the
Chosen eagerly seized the opportunity of relieving
the monotony. “Hey, mister, hany heels in th’
crik?” he called. The tired-looking lineman re-
moved the pole from his shoulder, carefully lowered
one end to the ground and scanned the crowd.
After a ruminating pause he flung back his answer:
“Dunno about eels in the creek ; but there’s a
lot of sharks in the main street.”
“Sid” : Re erratic courses of bullets. To
save the missus half an hour’s piano-punching, we
generally chloroform the pig with a pea-rifle bullet,
and then stick him. I aimed fair between Denis’s
eyes, and noticed his tail fly off. Reckoned it a rot-
ten shot, but as he lay over quietly ,1 jumped into
the sty and gave him the bayonet. When cutting
up I saw he was hit between the eyes right enough,
and then found that the bullet had got into the spinal
cord and travelled down the centre of the' backbone
to the tail. It tried to go through that, too; but
Denis must have waggled it, for half-way along the
bullet passed out.
“Monyah”: I hate to suggest that there
can be any harm in keeping our native-bears as
pets; but there is a widespread belief in South
Queensland —I have not come across it in the North
—that these lovable little animals convey disease
to human beings. Both diphtheria and consumption
are mentioned, but more often the latter. I cer-
tainly know cases of both that have been attributed
to the little fellow; but of course the evidence in
support isn’t good enough. Has any scientific
examination been made?
* * * *
“Harvib” : The coldest snap I remember
was when young Fitz Percy got bushed in the
Dungalear horse-paddock. We found him at sun-
rise dejected and half-frozen. “Poor devil! No
matches?” remarked the sympathetic overseer.
“P-plenty of m-matches,” shivered our pommy, “but
not a scrap of p-p-paper.”
“Cape Pork”: I’ll not charge for this.
When measuring logs don’t take half a day in check-
ing the tally-clerk. The following rule stands good.
Multiply girth by length by three-quarters of girth,
and you have measurement in super feet. If it’s a
16ft. log, multiply length by girth, the one in
feet and the other in inches, and you have super
feet in the log. Tack a quarter on to get the
quantity in a 20ft. log.
* * * *
“The Wanderer”: Some early-day Austra-
lian police troopers had queer tastes. It is recorded
that Superintendent Cobham, of Benalla (Vic.),
was severely reprimanded and lost two months’ pay
for “flaying the chin of the dead bushranger Morgan
to make a tobacco pouch out of his skin and beard.”
* * * *
“The Wanderer”: Still in the flesh,
ex-Sergeant Hogan, who, while' stationed at Taree,
on the Manning (N.S.W.), had more than one unsuc-
cessful jaunt after Thunderbolt the bushranger.
Hogan came from the Emerald Isle in the long ago.
A son of his presides over the spiritual destinies
of the R.C. flock in this North Coast Land of Pas-
palum Princes and Big Cream Cheques. His dad
is spending the winter of life in Sydney.
“Gouger”: All the tribes of North Queens-
land, in their wild state, share the fruits of the hunt
equally. Nothing is eaten away from the tribal
dinner-table, no matter how hungry the hunter may
be. The warriors bring in the meat and fish that
fall to their spears; the gins dig the yams and
edible fruits and nuts with which the scrubs abound.
The old men mostly make the spears and search for
sugar-bags (bees’ nests). But what a change when
the white man or the yellow has been among them
a while! I think tobacco starts the decline. A few
stolen whiffs from the day’s cadging, and the spirit of
“I keep what I get and damn the others!” comes in.
A few days ago I found how low our local tribe had
degenerated. Walking through the long grass I came
on three young gins crouching around a small fire.
A husky, freshly-killed frill-necked lizard was brown-
ing on the coals, and from the frequent anticipatory
glances thrown at the morsel I guessed he would
soon be gone the way all good scran goes. * Then,
laughing and chanting, a string of gins, with loaded
yam bags on their heads, came along the pad. In-
stantly the cookers pulled me down among the long
grass, smothered the fire, covered the roast so that it
would not smell, and crouched there without a move
while the gins went by. All safe, the three ab-
sconders, laughing gaily, tore the provender to pieces
and stove it away. One offered me a leg, but I was
not hungry. They begged hard for tobacco. Nothing
doing. So away they ran down the pad, to catch
the other gins before they reached camp, and so
share in their yam bags.
* * * *
“Baree” (N.T.) : We had a couple of Eng-
lish johnnies at Anson Bay once. At Christmas-time one
of them sent in an order to a storekeeper, a dinkum
Australian, for a supply of English goods. “Colonial
muck not wanted,” he added. The lugger brought
the other fellow’s goods but none for the English-
man. “Only Colonial muck in stock: unable to
fulfil your order,” the dinkum Aussie wrote. And a
very humbled Englishman had to borrow goods
from his mates, who carefully mislaid any English
makes they had and supplied him. with purely-
Australian goods. The other johnnie came our way
on a business-pleasure trip, and within an hour had
told us that he considered bush-game unfit even for
niggers. So we gave him ox-tail soup from a
kangaroo, beef olives made from jabiru breasts,
roast pork cut from an alligator, stewed chicken
that once was bandicoot, and egg-flip made from
eagle-hawks’ eggs; and the secret was carefully kept
till he was safely on board the lugger. Batshaw
told us afterwards that he never carried a more
seasick passenger in all his life.
* * * *
“Piscino”: If rod-and-reel fishermen only
knew the kind of sport to be found among the
Fijis they would make less fuss about tarpon, yel-
low-tail and amber-jack fishing in West Indian,
Florida and Catalina Island waters. There is a
fish around Fiji called oga (onga) which local
sportsmen back against all entries, “inch for inch
and pound for pound the gamest fish that swims.”
An oga of between 101 b. and' 201 b. weight has the
speed of a bullet, the endurance of a Digger and
a' fighting spirit that makes a salmon look like a
Portuguese man-o’-war. He is sufficiently plentiful,
and some day is sure to have the reputation he
deserves among globe-trotting followers of old Izaak.
“Walker”: Opposite my place on Thurs-
day Island stood a small tree in the middle of a
stony horse paddock. The peculiarity of it was that
every evening at sundown it sprayed water from all
points where the limbs joined the trunk. This
happened even in the middle of the dry season. The
tree was rough-barked, like a Burdekin plum; and it
still has me guessing.


if)
•4
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
b?
/
'
y
v.
n
c
4>
s of.
A
<^A
%
“S^*-
'V
<s>r?
o'*
<^<s>
TH
T
ACGG
ARE)
T
0
C
am&fact
ciido
Sdk
urers>
*9
•9
otuf
&ec£ Y2pce£e£~


The
Purest
Spirit
in the
AXijrUL
L\
If
Bi
6*l
ft
\ w. /;,/ /
\ \
N
Cf, esr
°ai-es
5 ftft
CO'-®
111
FT \
in
7
/
CROUP
W.
EVERY Drop of
“hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W.G. Hearne& Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branfch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Pact!
worthy, albeit his best work is drama,' gets
all his best effects by cumulative phrasing;
he creates his atmosphere in a smooth, quiet
insistence of grouping whose growth is
almost imperceptible until the readers or
audience find themselves aching for his
climax.
The sharp, stiffening word is good, natu-
rally ; the more I get on paper against it the
better I begin to like it. Still, I think the
argument that the phrase is better is, in
the main, sound. A sentence by Harry Leon
Wilson in the Saturday Evening Post
crosses my memory. He bewails the dull
cabarets and roof-gardens of a dry New
York; no more will he sit at table while
Sadie “dances the quaint old folk-dances of
Gomorrah with no stockings on.” The
word “quaint” is nearly as good as the
phrase, but it is the sentence as a whole that
gets the effect.
The over-educated, lynx-eyed, Browning
Society type of criticism is a thing of the
past generation. It had its alleged educa-
tional advantages in its period, no doubt;
but we all know too much about the sacred
mysteries of the literary craft now. And
one of our secondary discoveries is that a
word is not often any deeper or significant
than its own meaning.
HILARY LOFTING.
Max Beerbohm
The latest picture of Max Beerbohm
shows him gazing at life with that look of
idle rapture with which he greeted the tri-
vialities of earlier days. But otherwise
Time has dealt indifferently with him. The
hair that he wore so sweetly in the ’nineties
has retreated; and the remaining shred is
greying. The brow is lined, too; the mild
eyes ride listlessly in little pendulous cups
of flesh, whilst the moustache, bunched for
shelter under the quivering nostrils, clouds
the mouth and robs the face of felicity. It
is a curious picture that becomes arresting
because you feel that the development of
his English is comparable somewhat to the
change in the man. Nowadays he is urbane,
elderly, aching for new modes, and he is
not so ready to make a pageant of his
humor. Thirty years ago he was a very
different fellow. Then words were wrung
from his sensitive soul, and were set.
scented and immaculate, in dainty, tripping
sentences, each proud of its tailored nose.
It was enchanting to the exquisites of the
Savoy and the Yellow Book, but it never
gave one the consciousness of robust mascu-
linity. It spoke of effeminacy, powder-puffs
and crushed flowers. More than that, you
could hardly see the meaning for the man-
ner. He was for ever expei’imenting with
rich effects. He became a veritable Brum-
mel of Style.
Looking at “Works,” the collected essays
of the period, you see the literary masher
in every line of it. Behind all the artifice
and the tinkle you can hear the solid dic-
tum that a well-creased sentence is a great
step in life. Yet it is appealing stuff of a
sort, and you will find many a sample to
equal this taken from “The Pervasion of
Rouge”:—
Last century, too, when life was lived by candle-
light, and ethics was but etiquette, and even art a
question of punctilio, women, we know, gave the
best iiours of the day to the crafty farding of their
faces and the towering of their coiffures. And men,
throwing passion into the wine-bowl to sink or swim,
turned out thought to browse upon the green cloth.
Cannot we even now in our fancy see them, those
silent exquisites round the long "table at Brooks’,
masked all of them, “lest the countenance should be-
tray feeling,” in quinze masks, through whose eyelets
they sat peeping, peeping, while macao brought them
riches or ruin! We can see them, those silent ras-
cals, sitting there with their cards and their rouleaux
and their wooden money-bowls, long after the dawn
had crept up to St. James’s and pressed its haggard
face against the window of the little club. Yes, we
can raise their ghosts—and, more, we can see many-
where a devotion to hazard fully as meek as theirs.
In England there has been a wonderful revival of
cards. Baccarat may rival dead faro in the tale of her
devotees. We have all seen the sweet English chat-
elaine at her rpulette wheel, and ere long it may be
that tender parents will be writing to complain of
the compulsory baccarat in our public schools.
The sweetness and poise are maintained
throughout the volume, and one reads Beer-
bohm’s prose at its finest in his glistening
regret for the year 1880 and his panegyric
on George IV. There is more of it in “The
Happy Hypocrite” and in “More,” but in the
latter the humor is quickening to the appre-
ciation of riper follies and ironies, and he
seems less of Literature’s flunkey and more
a mhn about town. But the people who
suspected that his satire escaped through
his pencil discovered that he could lampoon
by parody. “A Christmas Garland” conceived
by a man who had a delicate ear for all the
rhythms and riots of style that were fashion-
able at the time, is the mirror of a thou-
sand audacities. How well you get the pomp
of Meredith in this:—
In the heart of insular Cosmos, remote by some
scores of leagues of Hodge-trod arable or pastoral,
not more than a snuff-pinch for gaping tourist nos-
trils accustomed to inhalation of prairie winds, but
enough for perspective, from those marginal sands,
trident-scraped, we are to fancy, by a helmeted Dame
Abstract familiarly profiled on discs of current bronze
—price of a loaf for humbler maws disdainful of
Gallic side-dishes for the titillation of choicer palates
—stands Clashthought Park, a house of some pre-
tension, mentioned at Runnymede, with the spreading
exception of wings given to it in later times by
Daedalean masters not to be baulked of billiards oi
traps for Terpsichore, and owned for unbroken gen-
erations by a healthy line of procreant Clashthoughts,
to the undoing of collateral branches eager for the
birth of a female. Passengers through cushioned
space, flying top-speed or dallying with obscure
stations not alighted at apparently, have had it
pointed out to them as beheld dimly for a privileged
instant before they sink back behind a crackling
barrier of instructive paper with a “Thank you, Sir,”
or “Madam,” as the case may be. Guide-books praise
it. I conceive they shall be studied for a cock-shy
of rainbow epithets slashed in at the target of Landed
Gentry, premonitorily.
The other skits are equally canning, and
throughout the parody is never near to tra-
vesty : the sense of caricature is obedient
to an affected hope for the victim. This
is mockery of the finest kind to refuse your
man the full revelation of his offences. Beer-
bohm scores brilliantly because he never
says enough. He scores further because each
piece is pale with the fraud of a fictitious
apology. When he laughs at Frank Harris,
and in a tender postcript takes off his hat
to the man, he doubles the injury by the
salutation. He is a different performer in
“Zuleika Dobson,” his one and only novel,
and with all respect for its pretty writing,
its imagery and humor, one pleads that his
fancy isn’t strong enough for so elaborate
an adventure. One may be mistaken, but
his inventiveness appears to pant in trying
to arrange sensations for lovely Zuleika.
Miss Dobson is insatiable for backgrounds
bigger than Beerbohm paints, and she at last
forces him to a denouement that is dragged
by its extravagant ceremony to the verge of
a diminuendo. Yet “Zuleika Dobson”
has verve, and one misses it when read-
ing its author’s latest, “Seven Men,”
which betokens a lowered literary pulse,
and with the exception of the stories of
Enoch Soames and Maltby and Braxton,
demonstrates further a dim sense of fun.
Still, for those two tales the book is worth
buying and keeping. The rivalry between
the authors, Maltby and Braxton, is as in-
geniously told as Enoch’s diverting compact
with the Devil. The style of the yarns is
rather mellow and dry, and early students
of Beerbohm will register a sob for vanished
exuberance. But in its essence it is typical
of the author. It is a record of dabblers
by a dabbler born —a dabbler in attitudes,
a dabbler with Life, and in his maturity a
dabbler in decay.
For one with his brains and opportuni-
ties the publication of seven slender volumes
and a number of caricatures is extraordinary
for 30 years, but still if he had acquired
the habit of work and a larger production
it is doubtful whether he would be so ac-
claimed by his contemporaries. His oddity
is his indolence in an age when love of
the pen has made other men slaves to the
thraldom they cannot destroy. Stranger still
are the littleness of his conceptions and the
suggestion of a monocled eye beaming
blandly on dudes and duchesses. Yet the
appearance of a hew book by Max Beer-
bohm is an event that is received with a
shout of approval. There is undoubtedly
something in him that no other writer pos-
sesses.
JEAN SIRI.
The Tragic Note
When a storyteller has a fair choice be-
tween joy and sorrow in the ending of his
tale the tragic finish is immoral. In the
great tragedies the doom hovers over the
story from the very beginning; but, taking
the world as we find it. calamity is seldom
the ending of a life. The calamity cOmes,
the man fehrs it, shrinks under it; but in
99 cases out of 100 he fights his way through
into a clearer place. Death itself is as
often triumphant as commonplace; and
death alone does not make a tragedy. But
smiles are infinitely more plentiful in the
world than tears; and to tell a world-story
to a constant wash of weeping is to be
false to the facts of existence.
The Greek tragedy was black with despair,
and some kind of false notion has grown
up in consequence that true art demands
the note of gloom and horror. But compare
the life the Athenians lived in their classic
days with the ordinary life of Australia,
and you find that the Australian criminal
who breaks all the laws of God and man
is less under the cloud of fate than the aver-
age citizen who applauded Pericles. Exile,
death, shame and torture chase the big
Athenian through the pages of history ; for
the Greek, with all his European qualities,
had the cruelty of an Asiatic. His great
tragedies reflect that; but to introduce their
note into the modern story—particularly the
story which is set in Australia —is false to
all art and the observation that is the basis
of art. Elizabethan England, where some-
thing of the rough jollity of the Middle Ages
jostled with a narrowing new spirit of com-
mercialism, provided a wide stage for tra-
gedy ; yet its tragedy is not that of the
Greeks. Shakspeare slaughters his kings
with the enthusiasm of a wholesale butcher,
but a good deal of the dying is triumphant.
Richard 111. has finished five Richmonds in
good style before his end ; and Macbeth, if
the later scenes are spurious, as all the
critics agree, was not really killed at all,
but went out fighting Macduff. On the show-
ing of Macbeth and Macduff respectively
through the early part of the drama, when
the first Mac said his big defiant damn, the
Duff person hadn’t a hope of saving his
skin. The truth is that the Shakspearean
tragedy does not run - to many tears, and
that some of the most intense pathos is found
in dramas which are not strictly tragedies;
and the key to this, as to the Greek tragedy,
is found in the fashion of the times. Eng-
lish gentlemen in that age deliberately cut
the heads off fallen enemies, murdered the
whole of a Spanish garrison in Ireland which
pulled down its flag in token of surrender,
and the Queen assented on the one hand to
the legal assassination of Mary of Scots and
on the other to the hanging of persons guilty
of conducting private prayer-meetings. Ships
went out to fight private wars in the Spanish
Main carrying a crew four times as large
as that which returned, and knowing when
they set sail that the slaughter of most of
the men would be necessary to make room
for the rich cargo on the home trip. There
was a general atmosphere of cruelty and
contempt for life which is altogether foreign
to our own age. Yet the tragic note in our
literature persists, and it is generally a false
note.
To try to move people to an imaginary
sorrow is poor business. When Dickens
was issuing “The Old Curiosity Shop” in
serial numbers hundreds of peonle wrote
to him asking him not to kill little Nell.
The onlv real reason for the slaughter of
the child was the opportunity it gave the
author for a display of cleverness in show-
ing how she died. Yet there would have
been more real art in snatching her from
her cheap doom and showing how she con-
tinued to liye. Little Nells are still being
killed with great regularity in fiction; and
it is about time a decent public taste ordered
the massacre to stop. If a reason is sought
for the persistent use of death as a stage
property by the fiction-writer it is to be
found in the ease with which the subject
can be handled; but the person with the
pen ought to seriously consider the nature of
the undertaker’s job and ask himself whether
it isn’t worth taking the trouble to persuade
the world that it has some brightness left,
rather than to follow the mournful line of
least resistance and borrow the tragic trap-
pings of an age that rarely saw the sun.
MARY McC.
Old Sydney
The Story of Old George Street, by
Charles H. Bertie, is a “chapter of Old
Sydney,” and such a chapter as few but
its author could write. Indeed, it is doubt-
ful whether anyone else but the venerable
J. M. B’orde — The Bulletin’s “Oldest
Inhabitant” —could attempt it with any hope
of success. Both know their Sydney as
AValter Besant knew his London —as an
intimate and with a sincere affection. Most
Sydneysiders possess this affection, but not
many have such knowledge to enhance the
city’s charm. It is this rare possession that
gives the little book a high value to the
student. Nothing is guessed at, and hardly
any incident or legend of interest is passed
over. Moreover, Bertie knows a joke when
he sees it —which is not always the case
with much more famous historians. The
story of Sydney’s main thoroughfare starts
at its northern end, close to the position
of Dawes Battery, and finishes near the
entrance to the Central Railway Station,
where the toll-house on the Parramatta-
road was erected by Macquarie in 1819 from
the design of P. H. Greenway. There is a
singular fascination about the story of
George-street North —the nucleus of early
Sydney. The western side of Sydney Cove
was the levellest land along its foreshores,
and it was here that the stores and hospi-
tals were first erected. Phillip’s original
idea had been to construct a principal high-
way. 200 feet wide, southward from the
head of the Cove, but it never became more
than a good intention. The first roadway
happened into existence where it was most
natural that it should do so. A glance at
Hunter’s sketch, of August, 1788 —repro-
duced in the book —together with Bertie’s
careful explanations and reasoning, makes
it abundantly clear that this is the case.
W_p get the whole 132 years of the street’s
existence in a story that is never tedious,
copiously illustrated from old drawings and
nhotographs. But it should have been pub-
lished in stiff covers. The many who will
wish to preserve it will have to see to its
secure binding themselves. (Tyrrell’s,
Limited, Sydney.)
J. H. M. A.
A Satchel of Books
The Threefold State, with an alternative
title, The True Aspect of the Social Question,
is by Dr. Rudolf Steiner, and is heavy for
its size. Nobody but a person of German
extraction could be quite so ponderous in
so little space. If he throws any new
light on the social question—-what it is and
where it is and what should be done with
it—the dark lantern of Rudolf’s ponderosity
conceals the fact very effectively. (Geo.
Allen and Unwin, Ltd., London.)
J. N. Maclntyre, a veteran pioneer and
human institution of the top of Australia,
has written a strenuous paper-covered
volume White Australia; the Empty 'North!
the Reasons and Remedy (Penfold, Sydney).
The place the writer writes about is the real
North, where the equator is only half as far
away as Brisbane is; and the rivers he talks
about as old friends are such as the Norman,
Flinders, Albert and their kith and kin. He
swears by the climate, which breeds patri-
archs ; and he swears at the roads, which
are mere streaks on the face of Nature; and
at the railways, which' really don’t exist
except occasionally for the purpose of taking
trade to the favored port of Townsville, for
which Mr. Maclntyre has little use, and
away from the Gulf, which he loves; also
at the bridges, which are mostly missing;
and at the blank impossibility of making
the people in cool-weather Brisbane under-
stand that Thursday Island is nearly 1300
miles away and needs to be governed from
a shorter range. But Mr. Maclntyre dis-
courses on many things, and doesn’t concen-
trate on this one essential point with quite
the fury that might be expected. Queens-
land set up for itself with 25,000 people,
670,000 square miles to govern, and some
IM' in the Treasur y> al l because Sydney was
500 miles from Brisbane and couldn’t hear
over that distance. Now the real North,
having much more population, being twice
as. far from its seat of government as
Brisbane used to be, and having more than
£vd., can only get its chance the same way.
The book lacks an index, so it is a poor
work for reference, and a map or two might
have helped, but by way of compensation
there is a pleasing photo of the two Mac-
Intyre babies in their goat carriage.
The Inky Way
Leslie Millard, recognised as a rattling
good man with cables, has joined Sydney
Sun. He comes from Westralia, and put in
a year on Barrier Miner. Then he heard
Sydney calling.
Harrison, who was Stephens’s right-hand
man in the sub’s room on the Age for some
years, has taken a job on the Sun (Sydney).
He was farewelled by his Age cobbers one
evening, and on the next by a big group
of inkslingers from all the metropolitan
papers.
This is what they tell the visitor to Para-
guay nowadays about that strange pilgrim-
age of a few well-meaning Australians in
1893. It is from the new book on South
America by J. O. P. Bland:—
Some of the Australians have an interesting past,
being the remnants of that ill-fated colony of
communists which came from Australia to take up
free grants of land and to create Utopia in Para-
guay in 1893, which honeful scheme eventuallv
failed because the honest, hard-working members of
the community grew weary of toiling for the
benefit of their loafer brethren.


SIX MILLION MOTORISTS
agree: that
dCmwit> Motor Necessities
are just as essential for the safety and success
of motoring as a foundation is to a building!
Have you ever stopped to realise the full extent to which Stewart Motor Necessities have
revolutionised the motor-car industry?
The Motoring public in general is familiar with
the story of how the
Stewart Speedometer,
through its remarkable accuracy and dura-
bility, has established the Stewart “Magnetic”
as the accepted Speedometer principle. The
“Stewart” is now used as standard equipment
by 95 per cent, of the car manufacturers.
Price £4/10/-
gd
The Stewart Warning Signal
is in greatest demand everywhere! It is
another Stewart Necessity now come to be a
world leader. Gets instant action in thickest
traffic; built to withstand hardest usage; never
fails; compare its tonal qualities with other
makes—then you will unquestionably choose
the Stewart—-either hand-operated or motor-
d iven Price from 45/- up.
If you are going to buy a new car this year,
see that it is completely Stewart-equipped.
You can accurately judge the value of a car
by its equipment. Look for the name Stewart!
If you intend retaining your present car, com-
plete its equipment with Stewart Products. You
will thus add to your car’s appearance, to its
efficiency, its performance and to your own
motoring pleasures.
mm
•'V •'
ns
mm
MB
■:
Ihil^
:..t v-
gl -‘s* * . . I 1
■ '.■ •# ’ •••• *
/M s ' ■' ■ilL/'Ax'’ •
_■_ * A ~ \
. - A / i , '
!& sMigp
■ ; ■ wm
: MBtr.
i
sT... IMS-:
m
Miss STEWART GUSTOMBILT.
(Posed by Miss Marilynn Miller.)
Stewart Vacuum System
Standard equipment on 88 per cent, of all
cars four years after its inception. No other
accessory was ever given a more rapid,
universal adoption by car manufacturers. It
made practical the present-day underslung,
stream-line bodies for cars. It made possible
the discarding of bothersome, uncertain,
unsatisfactory feed systems.
The Stewart Vacuum
System has definitely
solved the feed prob-
lem for motorists the
world over.
Price £5.
11
M
Stewart V-Ray Searchlight
The only Searchlight worthy of the name.
Makes night driving safe and enjoyable.
Projects a powerful, penetrating beam of light
1000 feet in any direction. Has large mirror
in back, handsome in design. Durable in
construction and finish. 1\ •
Notice to Motor Accessory
Distributors.
Stewart Motor Necessities are for sale by
wholesale Motor Accessory Houses through-
out Australia, including the following inter-
state distributors.
Bennett
Roche
& Wood, Ltd.,, Pitt Street, Sydney; Arthur Christian, Hay Street,
Pty., Ltd., Swanston Street, Melbourne; Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd.,
Brisbane; Cornell, Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Perth; Berry &
Adelaide Street,


fg
Stock
Values,
like this sheep, are apt to jump. Sometimes
they fall. But the owner is on safe ground
who is well prepared for any happening.
Consign sheep and cattle to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Alert salesmen, reliable, experienced and
expert.
Homehush Yards, Sydney.
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
0
C 3
ill;
m
/ i 1,,
LJ :
§ir
> ; '--
'fuming
Buttle
dt • mounted .
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from y 2 -pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Naane ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on. the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 'West Second Street,
r : —fioTiati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNSVEN 8c -
CAMERON LT?
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BCJON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
. THE PICKWICK, & THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
Nothing
more to secure happy
temper jin a child
than correct feeding.
y*. ’
Get‘the diet right, and baby
is as ( happy as the day is long.
Hellin'?,s Foodtis adapted for use with
the youngest ibabe, is light, easily
digested/ safeJ* Besides/“Mellin’s”
is a no-worry)) food—hot water and
fresh cow’s 'milk, and it’s ready.
Baby's Feeder Is important. Mellin’s Feeding:
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, “The Care of Infants,” sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
mrsm&Wwm.
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
df
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
gd
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 63 BrooUman Buildings,
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
BAKER & LONGHURST, SO York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
&
> S'
Permanent
and Perfectly
Fireproof Structures
may be erected without expert knowledge and in the shortest
possible time with the
Standardised System of Building
which is ideal for the erection of such buildings as
BARNS, GARAGES, HANGARS, WOOLSHEDS,
HAYSHEDS, MACHINE SHOPS, etc.
Units are interchangeable, easily erected, easily transported, no riveting
required. Fullest particulars from
MDNERWERN
Ci
| MELBOURNE SYDNEY BmSBANE~I
r
Entirely
Australian.
m
*
CO
c
mUk
MAW.
GARAGE
s
1
1
f A
#
URODONAL
a
MAINTAINS YOUTH OF THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
From all Chemists and
Druggists throughout
Australia.
&~z
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
Booklets containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from
Cbatelain’s Australian Agency, 352 Kent Street, Sydney.
BOILED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
{The £lOO Prize Eot-Water Poem of the recent
Federated Plumbers’ Congress.)
Play me a tune on the old bath-heater —
A good, hot, steamy air!
On a winter’s morn there’s nothing sweeter!
Blow me a tune on the old bath-heater
And I won’t have a care!
(Change metre here and keep clear of twin screws.)
Off to gay Colombo in a gaudy P. and 0.,
With the Kipling singing loudly (how the blue-flamed
burners blow !)
Though it’s just bath-heater magic, to the tropics
straight I go
When the good hot water’s flowing in the morning.
{Chorus.)
When the good hot water’s flowing in the morning,
And the bathroom peg my dressing-gown’s adorning,
When I’m only wrapped in gladness,
Then farewell to care and sadness
And the city’s money madness I am scorning.
So blow me up an anthem as the white bath slowly
fills!
Let me sing amid the vapor and forget the weekly
bills,
All the day’s recurrent duties and the wintry wind
that chills!
No soprano ever sang an anthem sweeeter
Than the roaring tropic lay
That excites me every day
When I strike a light and start the good old heater!
x.s.w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
“Gundaghi”: Few people understand
static electricity. A timber-mill on the
Wambo (Q.) is daily producing large quan-
tities. When the steam is let off at lunch-
hour it strikes the iron roof, causing a
great vibration. As the roof is insulated
by the wooden uprights, it acts exactly like
a Leyden jar, becoming highly charged with
the static fluid. One of the bench-hands
discovered that he could get a severe shock
by climbing up and touching the roof. They
are now wondering if it could be utilised
to work the engine.
“Phormium” : Maoriland flax (Pliormium
tenax) grows very freely in many parts of
Victoria, though as a rule no use is made of
it. But C. A. Nobelius, of Emerald, grows
it for use as well as ornament. It comes in
handy for tying up nursery stuff, and some
very fair specimens of fibre have been pre-
pared and used at James Miller and Co.’s
ropeworks. The fibre is not as long as in
the home-grown stuff, perhaps because it
is not grown in such swampy ground ; but it
is serviceable for all that. Most of Aus-
tralia’s binder-twine is made from fibre cut
by Henare.
The Australian Commissioners who lately
looked into things in what used to be Ger-
man New Guinea have a poor opinion of
Fritz as a coloniser. Under Australian rule
Rabaul has become comparatively healthy,
whereas in the Hun’s time it used to be a
death-trap. The Germans profited nothing by
the American achievements in Panama or the
Australian researches in N.Q.; their mode
of “fighting” malaria was to shift their capi-
tal from time to time. And being mere
coast-dwellers they never prospected the in-
terior ; hence “there are still very large
areas which have never been visited by
white men,” and the mineral resources bf
the islands remain untouched.
“Expert Too”: A recent instruction im-
poses on telegraphists the duty of showing in
the preamble of all telegrams they receive the
date on which the message was lodged. This
will undoubtedly be of service to the public,
but it looks very like a confession that the
Department has given up as a bad job the
task of delivering telegrams on the day of
lodgment. Should some inquisitive • member
ask for a return of telegrams posted from
the G.P.O. to suburban offices overnight and
delivered by messenger the next day the
P.M-G’s customers would see how shockingly
they are being served.
“Hosea”: A humorous trick is practised
by hatters and hosiers these times. In the
window of any haughty profiteer who pro-
fesses to do “a ’igh-class trade” you may
now see the old sort of three-and-sixpenny
cloth cap marked 31s. 63. or so, with
“American make” added by way of encour-
agement. There are no customers for com-
monplace cloth caps at these fancy prices.
If one falls in occasionally he is someone
who has lost his hat whilst returning from
a successful day with the ponies. Their
purpose in life is simply to make the prices
of other goods look less exorbitant by com-
parison. An overcoat marked nine guineas,
for instance, seems an astounding bargain
beside a little bit of a cloth cap at 355.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The second of
“the Lennox Bridges” (B. 13/5/’2O) is the
Lansdowne, over Prospect Creek, on the
Great Southern Road, 17 miles from Syd-
ney. It was the second stone-arched bridge
of scientific construction built in Austral-
asia. Commenced in 1833, the foundation-
stone being laid by Governor Bourke on
New Year’s Day, it was not declared open
(by the same Governor) till January 26,
1836. Lord Lansdowne was at the * time
“President of his Majesty’s Council.” The
bridge is based on the design of Westgate
Bridge over the Severn at Gloucester. The
third bridge erected by David Lennox is
the one named after him in Church-street,
Parramatta.
“Delver”: At least one party of runaway
convicts put up a fight, though a losing one,
against a British man-o’-war. In May,
1808, a band of 50 convicts, led by former
naval-lieutenant Stuart or Stewart, seized
the 182-ton brig Harrington lying at anchor
in Sydney Harbor, cut the cables and slipped
out to sea. 11.M.5. Dedaigneuse ran into
the Harrington off the coast of Luzon (Phil-
ippine Islands). Stuart put up a scrap
(the Harrington had done some buccaneer-
ing on the west coast of South America in
1804 and carried 18 guns), but when he
found that the warship carried too heavy
metal for him he ran ashore and set fire to
the ship. With most of his crew he got away.
In a petition asking for compensation for
the loss of the Harrington, presented in
1812, William Campbell said that the con-
victs were, as he had heard, still at large
in some part of India (he probably meant
the East Indies). It does not appear that
they were ever caught. Campbell made him-
self such a nuisance that aventually he
was granted 2000 acres of land.


Ee Travellers Companion
r. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills Indispensable.
* . V..V.V -'vn
m
mm
m
#1
as
wm
7 i v
sk-i
For those who travel by
•sea or land Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found a most use-
ful companion, and should always be carried
in the pocket or handy in the suit-case.
When preparing for a sea trip a course of these pills
taken nightly before sailing will considerably reduce the risk
of seasickness. They should also be used while at sea to
insure the regular working of the system, which so frequently
becomes upset when on board ship.
The railway passenger who has to sit long hours in a train finds his
liver becomes sluggish and digestion disordered through eating hastily and
insufficient exercise. He likewise finds a medicine of the type of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is just what he needs.
It is important to remember that change
of food and living conditions invariably dis-
arrange the system, and when that occurs
nature needs assistance, at least temporarily.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are specially
suited for this purpose. They will keep the
organs in perfect working order and prevent
many of the serious and costly illnesses if taken
when the first signs ofConstipation appear. With
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills always at hand,
using a little care and intelligence, the system
can be kept in a sound and healthy condition.
3
■re
Z% S
m
>/ VATi
Make One Feel Brighter.


Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty. .
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
LADIES! GENTS! CONFECTIONERS!
Make Sweets at One-third the Price
you now pay for them.
The man or woman who has not the courage to
make a business venture, and the grit and determina-
tion to push it to success, will always be found
the underpaid servant of the fellow who did have
the courage to make a start. Home confectionery
manufacturing by our system offers the greatest
opportunity in the country to-day for engaging
in business for yourself with only a couple of pounds
capital. The following few lines may help many of
you who have been hit rather hardly by the new rise
in prices of confectionery to write for details of our
instruction:— KEEP A-GOIN’' ,
When you strike a thorn or rose
Keep a-goin’.
When it hails or when it snows,
Keep a-goin’.
’Tain’t no use to sit and whine
When the fish ain’t on your line:
Bait your hook and keep, on tryin’—
Keep a-goin’.
For particulars write to
R. & E. CROAKER,
Confectionery Instructors,
UNIVERSAL CHAMBERS,
325 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
To those in Victoria.- —Our Showrooms are open
daily from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Inspection invited.
WARATAHT
ftNCINCVVIRE
l!l .Wim
VS.
rENCING Wlßt
Keeps Cost of
Fencing Down.
It costs much less than imported
wires, is stronger, strains tighter,
withstands climatic conditions
better, seldom needs re-straining.
From the Ore to the Fence Aus-
tralian.
Get Illustrated Booklet Gl9.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY.LTD.
310 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
&
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you.
ASK DISTINCTLY FOR
PARIS GARTERS
Value and Service Guaranteed.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN GLOWREY, Proprietor.
THC
iIPREME
m
SUNBEAM
Built into every Sunbeam car is
the accumulated experience of
twenty years’ specialised effort*
And with what result —a car that for
hard service under extremely arduous
conditions Cannot be beaten, a car
universally known as —The Supreme
Sunbeam.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Department: 62, Oxford Street, London, W.l, England.
Cable Address : “ Subeamoco, London.
Head Office; . . . - Wolverhampton, England.
g
Sole Agents tor New South Wales: FRASER & WILLSFORD, 822 George Street, Sydney.
dr
All-British
in
your
Grandfather’s
Day
Our forefathers were excellent judges ot what was good for
them —a remedy became famous because it cured the complaint it
was intended to cure . So fame came to the firm of manufacturing
chemists who, at their works in Lancashire in England, prepared
a successful remedy for Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago and Sciatica.
People in those days did not take long journeys to foreign
watering-places when they were ill—they took the “ Kruschen
course in their own homes, and got well all the sooner in conse-
quence. Kruschen Salts is invaluable in all cases of Constipation,
and in Liver and Kidney disorders generally. To get fit there
is nothing like Kruschen Salts —it gives an abounding sense of
vigour and vitahty that is in keeping with the spirit of the day.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale IMstabutimg Agent
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNE
Solo Proprietors, £. Griffiths Hughbs (Kruschen) Ltd.,6B Deansgate Arcade. Manchester,
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
26
per bottle
THE GREATER NEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Melbourne morning press is still professing
its inability to understand the moral attitude of
those Members of the Federal Parliament who voted
themselves £lOOO per annum.
“You have betrayed the People’s sacred trust,
Inspired by sordid Mammon’s hateful lust.’’
The Moralist reviled
The Politician thus. To his disgust
The latter only smiled.
“Where is the difference 'twixt your misdeed
And the frail clerk’s who, in his hour of need,
Collects the petty cash,
And on some variable racing steed
Does a distracted dash?”
“What of your credit? Did its loss afford
No pang ?” Again his hearer smiled. “Good
Lord!”
He made reply, “No! No!
Needing the cash, with heartiest accord,
We let the credit go.”
N.S.W.
D.
“Country Ped”: The Prince of Wales chip-
ping at some gold-bearing quartz while down
a Bendigo mine recalls the story told of his
grand-uncle, the Duke of Edinburgh, when
he went below. The Duke’s taps with the
hammer were very feeble. A Cousin Jack
miner stood by. “Hit un, you! Hit un,
you!” he kept saying; then, disgusted with
Royalty’s efforts, he exploded: “Why, ’ee
couldn’t break face clarck !’’
“8.1. D.”: The boom in house-property
has started a new profession in our Mel-
bourne suburb. Several citizens represent-
ing different estate-agents have called lately,
to ask me to sell my houde. As I am not
anxious to move I quoted a fancy price, but
they didn’t bat an eyelid. One and all said
they would “have it put on the books.” I
didn’t spot the inwardness of this till I saw
a notice in an agent’s window that he would
pay a bob for each house submitted to him
for sale.
“Dale”: “David’s” letter from home, in
which reference was made to mum’s latest
hat (B. 17/5/’2O), is not on its own. An-
other communication from brother _ Albert,
after expressing envy of the good time the
heir was having on his travels, moaned that
there was absolutely nothing doing except
that “mum” had bought a new hat —and the
young imp made remarks about that hat
which it might shake the foundations of the
throne to repeat.
“Bouragi”: “G.’s” mention of the New
Guinea tobacco plant recalls that some of
the mountain-grown leaf sent south some
20 years ago was pronounced very high-
class cigar-making stuff by Sydney experts.
Years later, when writer was living in
Brisbane, some friends brought down a
couple of hundred cigars which had been
made at Port .Moresby from native leaf by
an enthusiastic old German who had
started the industry there. As a cigar
smoker of years’ standing, I thought them
equal to the primest Manilas.
“Arthur R ” : Telegraph lines are, to a cer-
tain extent, affected by the rays of the sun
in a similar way to wireless signals, which,
for some unaccountable reason,_ are much
stronger at night. This is specially notice-
able on long-balanced circuits, which often
work very indifferently in the daytime, while
at sundown, the trouble disappears. Another
peculiarity is that long Morse lines often
work better in dull, wet weather than in dry,
although, owing to the heavy leakage in wet
weather, they should do the exact opposite.
“Nalla Dooh” : “Static’s” remarks on freak
wireless signals recall something similar I
often saw at Madang, New Guinea. A tele-
phone line ran under the aerials to the
native police headquarters; and when the
Radio was operating the signals could be
read distinctly in the ’phone receiver. On
this same line where it was attached to the
verandah was a tiny fault, and on dark
nights the message could be picked up by
the sparks. It is told that at Morobe, where
the ’phone line is similarly situated, the
wireless operator heard through his wire-
less receiver part of a ’phone conversation.
“Bad Australian” : What about using white
ants to reduce the 11.C.L.? In parts of
South America the Indians devour immense
quantities of the insects. The forepart is
nipped off and discarded, and the bloated
after-part, which contains a large percent-
age of oil or fat, is prepared for eating in
various ways. I have tried tortillas made
of flour and ants in equal parts, fried in
lard; also a kind of porridge prepared with
a little water, some mashed ants and pol-
enta flavored with red pepper, salt and
yerla iuena. These, dished, had a strong
peanutty flavor, but were quite palatable
and much more to my taste than the small
armadillo eaten by all and sundry through-
out South America.
“Michael Mulligatawny”: General Ryrie’s
announcement that steps will be taken to
effect a reciprocity arrangement with the
British authorities covering British ex-
soldiers in Australia and ex-A.I.F. men in
the Cold Country will be welcomed by all
hands. At the moment no machinery exists
whereby disabled Imperials in Australia can
obtain assistance, immediate or otherwise.
Everything relating to their pensions and
treatment must be sanctioned by the Pen-
sions Ministry in London, a procedure in-
volving from "four to six months’ delay; so,
whilst Millbank deliberates and tries to
assess degrees of disability at 12,000 miles
distance, the disabled Tommy is at liberty
to starve, commit suicide or go to gaol as
his tastes direct.
“A.J.S.”: Lately a decayed molar drove
me to the dentist’s. I went in my best
clothes, and was informed by a pushful
young man that seven of my teeth required
immediate attention at an estimated cost of
£l2. I fled holding my pockets. Next day
I called at two or three other dental shows,
and the estimates for repairs varied from
30s. to £l5. But the climax came three
weeks later when, attired in old clobber, I
breasted in to the parlor presided over by
the pushful young man. Evidently he had
forgotten me. The damages on this second
occasion were assessed at £2 10s. all told,
five of the teeth which had drawn upon
themselves the young man’s professional
criticism on my first visit having miracu-
lously become sound again.


CARE FOR YOUR SKIN.
Keep Away Winter’s Ills by using
REXONA, the Skin Remedy of the Age
w
INTER winds play havoc with the skin—chapped lips, rough faces, chilblains, cracked and bleeding hands all result from exposure
to the wind and weather, and cause an unnecessary amount of suffering—unnecessary because Rexona the Rapid Healer
prevents just these discomforts by healing the injured skin, and protecting it from the evil influence of disease germs. A small
abrasion may become the germ-infected area that threatens health itself. A timely use of Rexona prevents small injuries from becom-
ing painful, and its action is so prompt that Rexona has made its name known all over Australia as the Rapid Healer. The triangular
pot with its healing soft green ointment, should be kept handy on the dressing-table, so that every member of the family can have
access to its wonderful healing power.
REXONA Banishes Chilblains and Chapped Hands.
“My little girl had frightful Chilblains on her hands and feet. For a few weeks she could hardly put her boots on, her feet
were so bad, but her hands were worse, and the poor child did suffer,” writes Mrs. A. Tyson, Maple Street, Golden Square, Bendigo,
Vic. “The chilblains were broken. We tried a good many ointments on them, but they did not seem to improve. Her feet used to
sting with pain. One day I heard of Rexona being good for chilblains, and I got a box to try. It cured my little girl’s chilblains in
three days, when all the other ointments had failed to cure her.”
REXONA AGAIN
SUCCESSFUL.
“My husband had very bad
chapped hands for a few weeks,”
writes Mrs. Mary Curry, Barry
Street, Quarry Hill, Bendigo, Vic.
“He could not get them healed.
The sores were quite deep and the
pain was cruel. He said his hands felt
as if he had burnt them, they used
to sting so. He tried six or seven
different cures, but they did not help
them in the least. One day he was
recommended Rexona, he got a 1/S
tin, and it cured his hands in no
time, taking away all the burning
feeling and making them soft.
Rexona is very handy in winter for
sores caused by cold.”
King of All
Ointments.
)oliaq
)00tKlT\Q,
Healing
Antiseptic Ointment
Jurifi
JL U,
Cb
6^eals
Absolutely
Reliable
mona
THE RAPID HEALER
w
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the
rSkin. Eczema. Pimples. Sores Chilblains. Chapped Hands
Sciatica Itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Burns. Bruises. Scalds
Bad Legs. Stings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation
~ .Sole Proprietors
EX'O N pRI.EJA ?
I PA N Y
The Ever-
, ready Healer
REXONA Healed
Eczema on the Head
“My little boy had a very bad
attack of Eczema all over the head,”
writes Mrs. M. Hudson, Lower East
Street, Rockhampton, Q. “It was
very irritating- and painful. Under
the skin it was inclined to fester, and
nearly all the hair fell off.
“I tried numerous kinds of oint-
ments, but they all failed to do any
good until a friend advised me to
try Rexona Ointment. I gave it a
trial, and to my surprise and satisfac-
tion after the fourth application the
scales all disappeared, leaving a
nice clean skin behind, and his hair
is growing nicely.
“My girl also had a sore on her
ankle. It was so bad that she could
not wear a boot, but-Rexona cured
her likewise. I always intend to
keep a pot on hand, and have
nothing but the highest praise for
it.”
Rexona is a Winter necessity, and brings skin health and comfort during the cold, raw, windy winter days. We nearly all
suffer from sore, cracked lips, cold sores, chilblains, chapped hands, wipter eczema, or some painful skin eruption or irritation. The
cold weather aggravates these skin complaints and makes us feel miserable. Remember, many cases of chronic eczema and other
serious skin eruptions and even blood poisoning may have their beginning in a seemingly simple little cut or abrasion. The skin needs
special attention, and you should apply Rexona the Rapid Healer at the first sign of skin trouble. Rexona, in its dainty little
triangular pot, is the ever-ready healer that has brought relief to thousands of sufferers from skin troubles. Dainty and delightful to use,
sure in effect, Rexona is a favorite with all, and in fact a necessity in every home. Insure yourself against Winters Ills with a pot
of the genuine famous Rexona, sold in two sizes, 1/6 and 3/-.
Rgggfci
ppo
wV*
proP
!Re*° na
3 m
Aus' f
6
16
Reduced facsimile of the Triangular Stick.
Rexona—the Triangular Shaving' Stick
• Here is a new idea in Shaving Soaps.
Another Rexona triumph—one this time which will be appreciated by men wherever beards
grow. Rexona Stick contains the same oils and essences that have made Rexona famous the world
over, and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a shaving stick which is a Soap and Lotion
combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skin against wind and had
weather.
Everyone knows how delightful Rexona Soap is for the toilet, and Rexona Shaving Soap will be
found equally pleasant for shaving. No cake of Rexona Soap and no stick of Rexona Shaving Soap is
ever marketed unless in perfect condition, for we market Rexona Soap as the finest of the fine and
the scientific skill employed in its manufacture and the absolutely first quality of materials used
produce in Rexona Soap and Rexona Shaving Stick soaps of superlative quality, which represent the
highest possible standard that we can offer to the public, regardless of expense. Sold in triangular
enamelled box. Price 1/6. &
Rexona —the Aristocrat of Soaps
REXONA SOAP stands for Purity, Cleanli-
ness, Health and Beauty. By its use the
texture of the skin is at once refined, and
all disease-laden germs are washed away.
A clean body repels disease and invites
admiration. The refreshing glow of the skin
and the security from germ contamination,
which Rexona Soap ensures, is -evidence of
the intrinsic truth of the old saying, “Beauty
is only skin deep.”
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap will do more
to improve your skin than you ever thought a
soap could do. I£ is medicated on the same
principle as the famous Rexona Ointment.
Thus it is able to exert the hygienic effect of
Rexona upon the skin, with every cleansing
operation. Prevents roughness, beautifies
complexions, soothes tender skins, nrotects
from infection and disease, unexcelled for
shampooing,' purifies the scalp, removes dan-
druff, and brings health to the hair.
J 7////
7/////
V77777777777ZY77777777777Y7/7Z77Z/7,
m
mm
Y/s
y///YY/Y
IP
Ml
VA
wm
m
a
M
2
SKIN
FACIAL
1
m
Y/.Y
m
Y/y
'/Y
at
YSS.
Y?
%
f Cleanses-
HEALS AtiD
~ Purifies..
r Fob rue y
TOILET. BATH
ai NURSEIW^.
Same Soap, Same Price. Still 1/- per Tablet.


Irritated Itching Skins
Soothed With Cuticura
/
Vs,/*^
Bathe With
Cuticura
Soap
Dry and
Apply the
Ointment
These super-creamy emollients usu-
ally stop itching, cl ear away pimple?,
redness and roughness, remove
dandruff and scalp irritation and
heal red, rough and sore hands. If
used for every-day toilet purposes
they do much to prevent such dis-
tressing troubles. Nothing better,
surer or more economical at any
price.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
N. S. WSold everywhere.
'IW Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
Ki
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
biur rubber
nE£Eraßßgs*!MßMHawß^
g
dr
THE. WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
22S5H£GEH2SS3Sl
gd
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
Stutes, 3d.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3Yz guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Tire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Missing Friends.
ALEXANDER HARDIE.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of above-
mentioned, painter, late of Scotland, and last
heard :of at Ivandos Quarry, communicate with
.“SELKIRK.” Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney?
PARSONS
Marino and
Stationary
OIL ENGINES
■>: -P:
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
G 3 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies’ - * 4/-
iSoles and Heels),
per set.
Men’* Stout 2/6
.. Light 2/-
Ladies’ • -1/3
(Heels only
per pair
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
M anufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TEA TS Ltc.,
London. F.n%.
tfj| THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
TD to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
#TT THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
I
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Au at r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
fg
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
df
ro
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
g
'VTAjV
..
w
w
Put “Vallo” on Guard
Give your Sheep the protection that is embodied in
every packet of “VALLO.” Remove every possi-
bility of uncertainty. There are no failures where
this reliable preparation is used, and there can
be no infection when your flocks have been through VALLO.
Powder SHEEP DIP
possesses merits which no Woolgrower should overlook. It is not an
experiment. Its equality to the best Dip ever on the market has been
firmly established by leading Pastoralists everywhere. Its growing
popularity is due to demonstrated efficiency and service. Every claim
for “VALLO” can be substantiated by performance records.
Look for the Trade Mark.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
54
SPORTING NOTIONS.
F. G. Murdoch, better known as a Vic-
torian, has lost the championship of the Adelaide
Golf Club, which he won last year, to Tom Cheadle,
by two and one. The holder drove finely, but
seemed uncomfortable on the now damp greens
at Seaton. Cheadle first won the Club’s premier-
ship in 1903, when he was a schoolboy.
» * * ♦
Lacrosse in S. Aus. has keen support
up-country. A moderately strong combined team
from Adelaide lately went north, and was given a
hospitable welcome and two lovely lickings—by
Northern Areas, 17 to 8; by Jamestown, 18 to
4. In Adelaide itself the position is much as last
season, with Sturt so far unbeaten, and East Torrens
too good for anybody except Sturt.
* * * , *
The famous Black Watch regiment has
just won the golf championship of the British Army
for the seventh time. The team of four that did it
this time was a grim little band of warrior sports-
men : one lost an eye in the war, one a leg, and a
third was badly wounded in the body. The best
modern artificial leg is quite equal to golf, and
has even been seen in a tennis tournament.
* * * *
Half a century ago this month golf was
introduced into South Aus. by the Adelaide Club.
In June. 1870, Governor Fergusson and a few
enthusiasts imported some clubs from St. Andrew’s,
Scotland, and commenced knocking a ball about on
what is now known as Victoria Park Racecourse.
Sixteen years ago the Seaton Golf Links were pur-
chased, and C. L. Gardiner laid out the course.
Owing to many members enlisting the Club had
a quiet time during the war, but now the game
is booming, and there is talk of starting another
metropolitan club. 11. L. Rymill, the present cap-
tain, was the club’s tt’st. secretary.
The Olympic games have some side-lines
of which Australia knows nothing—“running-deer
shooting,” for example—and which have to be
Worked off when convenient. The latest mails bring
reports of the ice competitions held in Belgium.
The small new nations have come butting in, to
emphasise their independence, and Finland won the
figure-skating-—Norway second, England third. Also
Gzechb-Slovakia went in for the ice hockey, but had
the bad luck to bump against Canada in an early
heat, and that was fatal. Canada won the final from
.Sweden, 12 goals to one. As graceful athletes the
Swedes were remarkable; as a scoring side they were
not in it.
*■ 4 * *
A Westrulian cocky has an English vet-
eran toiling for hini in Babbacombe, who ran in a
pre-war Derby. Then the pet of dear duchesses and
marchionesses, Babbacombe gradually sank in the
world till, doped “up to the eyes” and thick-winded,
he was knocked down in a Perth auction yard for
50 bob. Doing well on the grass, in time he proved
a game and willing worker, although on the light side
for ploughing and carting. But the bush-bred horses
would never let him approach them, and the former
aristocrat leads a solitary existence, dreaming of the
days when Countess Vere de Vere stroked his mane
and the Duchess of Findonhaddock deemed it a
privilege to extract a hair from his tall.
* * * «
Artilleryman, back on the training track
after a spell, shows the same old swelling of the
hock that marred his beauty at Autumn meetings.
It seems practically certain that the Artilleryman of
last November has ceased to be, for, although the
swelling “causes him no inconvenience,” the fact
remains that he had no such disfigurement when he
broke right away from the Melbourne Cup field, and
retained to the end all the advantage he had
gained by his wondrous sprint. Certain Flcmington
identities said the swelling was curable four or five
months ago, but it hasn’t been cured. It has come
to stay. He won several events after the trouble
was there,-but those easy wins were not severe tests.
In the Leger he failed. And unless he presently
justifies his November reputation anyone may con-
tinue to argue that he failed because of his little
infirmity. If Richmond Main’s mishap has left him
none the worse, Mr. Baron Brown’s big champion
may be expected to rise superior to his old rival
next season.
* * * *
“Old Club Member”: The death of old
Phil Glenister at 84 takes me back 30 years to
the old days -when the Victorian Club billiard
tournaments were contested by such fine amateurs
as Billy Murdoch, Glenister, Sam Grimwood, Dr.
Lawrence, Midwinter, Harry Haines and others.
One Saturday night when the doctor played Phil
there were angry mutterings. The doctor having
won remarked that he had never contested such an
unfair game. Glenister replied, “Do you refer to
me?” I did not quite hear Lawrence’s answer, but
Phil’s retort was severe. The big arm of the medico
shot out, and the fingers nipped Phil’s small nose.
Immediately Glenister hit back and gave Lawrence
a black eye. The boys would not let them con-
tinue it. The next thing I saw, about 10 minutes
later, was the doctor walking about the room with
a big lump of beefsteak on his eye. The committee
met at once and expelled both of them. We soon
got up a meeting to ask for the double-expulsion
to be wiped out. It was done, and the doctor
said, “If there was anyone he liked in the room
it was Glenister.” Phil generously replied “that if
there was anyone he had a great respect for it was
the doctor.” Then I think we called for refreshments.
» * * »
The late Phil Glenister made no fortune
on the turf as owner or bookmaker, but he collected
many a big bet for other people. In 1888 he
handled the late Donald Wallace’s wagers on Mentor
for the Melbourne Cup—£l9,soo at 100 to four.
Mentor duly arrived. Two years later Wallace
entrusted him with the Carbine commission, and
Glenister got a little better than 20 to one in
thousands —actually he took £20,800 to £IO2C
a good price considering that the old hero started
favorite at fours. Glenister also had the commissions
for the second and third horses, Highborn and
Correze. About Highborn he secured £46,500 at 100
to one, two and three for E. A. Oatley and Black
Bill Forrester. It would have been the greatest
coup in the history of the Australian turf had it
come off, but it didn’t come off ; albeit Black Bill
went to his grave vowing that Highborn was unlucky
to lose. For W. R. Wilson, of St. Alban’s
Glenister took £33,000 to £lOOO against Nada for
the 1894 Cup, in which she ran third. “Could you
back a horse on that scale nowadays?” the veteran
was asked in the last year of his life. “No,” he re-
plied with a fine scorn for the sort of Tommy Rook who
faints at the sight of a tenner, “and I wouldn’t try.”
* * * *
“15-30”: It has been definitely settled
that the final for the next Davis Cup will be played
in Auckland on December 22, 23 and 24. An old
treaty with Maoriland in return for Anthony Wild-
ing’s services, entitles that Dominion to stage the
match, and it is hardly snorting to voice objections
that will be meanly seized as an excuse if Australia
is walloped. To practised internationals like
Brookes and Patterson, who are nowadays first favorites
for selection, the venue shouldn’t be of great import-
ance ; and really in the light of their play abroad,
it can’t be seriously contended that they would be
handicapped by tackling challengers to whom the
courts would be equally strange. As regards the
other one or two in the Australian party, they
would be just as well off, since coming from either
the Ma' State or South Aus., they would in the
event of Maoriland being excluded, appear on un-
familiar ground in Melbourne. The whole unpleasant-
ness brings up the question of a divorce between
the Commonwealth and M.L. for Davis Cup purposes.
When the Ricketty Isles can produce a man of the
calibre of Ollivier, they ought to be starting off as
a separate “nation,” and provide their own team. But
while the agreement is in force, what’s wrong with
taking Maoriland into active partnership and play-
ing Ollivier in December? According to the verdict
of our recent visitors, Lowe and Beamish, who met
him lately, he is next to Patterson as a singles
player.
(Continued on page J/6.)


A Great Loss and a
Greater Gain.
This business has rounded out five years’
existence by distributing to owners more
than four hundred thousand cars.
Price concessions on this car are rarely
asked, and never given with Dodge
Brothers’ consent or to their knowledge.
You can therefore figure accurately the
amount invested by the public in Dodge
Brothers cars, by multiplying the out-
put by the retail selling price.
There have been no bursts of speed in the
upbuilding of this great business.
At no time has there been even an attempt
at stimulation of sales or of produc-
tion.
Never for a single day has production been
speeded up for the sake of obtaining a
total.
On the contrary, it has been held down every
day within the limits of close, carefui,
conscientious manufacturing.
Both production and sales have been stable,
steady and spontaneous—scrupulous care
on the one, producing huge volume in
the other.
At this moment, as at every other period,
although producing a large volume every
day, Dodge Brothers are “losing busi-
ness” by their policy of keeping produc-
tion within the hounds of continuous
betterment.
In that sense they have doubtless suffered
a great loss in the past and will endure
a great loss in the future.
But over against this great loss is an,
infinitely greater gain.
The people have implicit faith in the integrity
of Dodge Brothers’ manufacturing
methods.
Four hundred thousand owners—or, rather,
four hundred thousand families—are of
one mind concerning the car and the
men who make it.
This business and its product are blessed with
a friendship probably without parallel
in the history of American manufac-
turing.
Fresh from the factory, or sold at second-
hand, from one end of the nation to the
other, the car lias special value and a
special reputation, because of the name
it bears.
Because of the name it bears, you may be
sure that the principle behind the car
will never be changed a hair’s breadth.
Dodge Brothers have only one idea iu the
upbuilding of their business.
That idea is to build so soundly and so
well that the goodwill which they have
won will grow and endure forever.
Their own life-long zeal for good workman-
ship is sharpened and stimulated by a
realisation of what the public expects
from them.
The entire institution is honestly permeated
with the idea that quality and perform-
ance are paramount and all-important.
And so, a standard which was naturally high
has been made higher still, by the
bestowal of complete confidence on the
part of the public.
It is a mutual contract which offers constant
inspiration to the manufacturer and con-
• stant insurance to the customer.
dr
Dddgbßrdthers
MOTOR CAR
It has come to be known as a substantial car, and
naturally that has attracted to it substantial people.
When a man decides to buy, he is thinking of the
freedom from annoyance he will enjoy in its
ownership.
He is thinking of the low petrol consumption, and
the high tyre mileage.
He is thinking of the satisfaction of having a car
that will never be out of service if he gives it
ordinary attention.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ctd.,
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., H,td.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
Qf J.CofflS BrO(sfs e '§
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of li HON CHIT'IS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well : proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
| ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England,.
m
\
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney—equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
RA jOK, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
< i e bole Agents m Australia, is the Razor we have used in our Saloon for over
oO yeais. Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annually. Its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair in Double Case, 25/-
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG § AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
cnsland cailf^
gd
fg
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on ail subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name
Address
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureaus
Brisbane.
S.B.
Invalids Enjoy
Benger’s Food. Letters from doctors and nurses continually
voice the gratitude of patients for it. Invalid after invalid
writes to say It is the one Food of which they never tire ”
The ease with which
d
Food
and absorbed, makes it most welcome to patients,
and it ranks highest among nutritive foods.
withl fO 5- ms With milk a dainty cream, which is absorbed
with little digestive effort. The different method of preparing it
(see directions) is the measure of its advantages over other foods.
Booklet and full particulars post free from. •
BRANCH MANCHESTER, England.
RANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at new YORK (U.S.A.) 90, Beckman St. Depots throughout CANADA.
223 A


CHUNDER LOO PRESENTING NUGGET TO PRINCE.
V
c
r
IS
m
.
\i
y
r
\
\\
a
m
S
X
I
p
y
it
? !
iitt,
I
■ S Vi
\
if
b
y
!!|!
•SB
Safe
■Z,
23*
2^
*9
s;
\
7
. &
\
r v.
XT'*
/
5S> %£\2>
oH
44
Cobra,” S6e Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Shows His Royal
Highness through
Pitch-dark levels
Of the mine
Where Australia’
Riches shine.
Up on top
The loyal Bear
Hands the Prince
His gleaming share.
“Bright as ‘COBRA,
Sir!” says he.
“It’s from Chunder,
Fox and me.”


3
t
' COUCH '>
ESdM
fl
unmvftni
JttWM ax
CROUP
m
■/x\
£$
53ft
fA.
3*
&
S?J,
O
s§
$$
£g«&
ft-
o
sS
N
GOOD
OLD and YOUNG
A good cough remedy
is one that can be de-
pended upon to relieve
all kinds of coughs. Not
one that relieves some
particular kind of cough,
but coughs in general.
It must be a cough
medicine that can be
relied upon for all the
different kinds of coughs
that are so prevalent in
Australasia.
While the causes of all
coughs are primarily the
same, the condition of
the patient is what makes
the difference in the
nature of the cough itself.
Coughs of healthy per-
sons are easier to relieve
than the coughs of in-
valids. The powerful,
convulsive cough of a
large man is harder to
relieve than the cough of
a baby.
If you get a remedy
that will relieve a man’s
cough and yet not be too
powerful for the baby,
you have a good cough
remedy.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is just this kind
of remedy. It is good
for any member of the
family. It relieves
coughs of all kinds.
It acts as easily and
safely on the young as
on the old.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is the ideal re-
medy for coughs, colds,
croup, influenza, whoop-
ing cough and bronchitis.
JjecxM. . (
s?n Atza cs e b bAo etc
« COUCH REMEDY »
Granny* Chamberlain
(CQPVK IGWT£D^
£
Tffl
8
tmii
5^
m
pa
■ara
m
in-
SSfiS
Q
Shirts
typify good taste in style, coupled with
comfort. Perfect in fit and make, they
are also characterised by the snap of
the finest patterns and colors.
Obtainable at all Leading Shirt Departments.
Give Thistle Pyjamas a Trial.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers-BRISBANE
and SYDNEY.
A.S. 23
£
%
B
%
See Hits brand
’'©n each
sh i r t
r
COCOA
MILLS
v
'/m
p
WM
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
Cocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under
their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
Australian Battlefields in France.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE just been visiting some of the
Australian battlefields in that part of
the long line which the Germans called
the Blood Bath of the Somme. We motored
for a hundred miles through country that had
been blasted of every natural feature —past
cemetery after cemetery of British, Austra-
lian, French and German dead; .past vil-
lages which were only a name ; through great
towns which are heaps of rubbish; along
roads —the poplar-shaded roads of France —
which are white tracks between rows of shat-
tered trunks. It is only half the truth to
say that high-explosive altered this country-
side : it destroyed it utterly and then re-
made it and gave it a horrible topog-
raphy of its own. There are once-
lovely brooks which have been stifled
under heaps of dust. There are gra-
cious willow-shaded canals which are now
strings of bare billabongs. Enormous mine-
craters yawn on the site of peaceful fields
which from skyline to skyline are churned
into the semblance of a wild sea, on which,
like masts in a gale, half a dozen sticks
mark where beautiful woods —Deiville Wood,
High Wood and Trones Wood—once stood.
The British dead have been collected from
these battlefields, but the French still lie
buried where they fell. Clusters of
tiny crosses amidst a wilderness of wire-
entanglements and mouldering trench sys-
tems and all the filth and litter of war mark
the fierce offensives of 1915 and 1916. Here
a rifle surmounted by a helmet has been
stuck up over a grave, but the rains of two
winters have washed the soil away and left
the skeleton to bleach.
There is activity in the station-yard of
Albert, but outside the gates the roofless
houses stare with sightless eyes at one an-
other across an emnty road. The trains
go to and fro carrying the passengers and
goods of happier regions, and seem to shun
the devastated areas as if they had the
plague. Bapaume is still a heap of rubbish,
amongst which we found an old man with
spade and barrow digging for his cellar. In
Peronne a little clearing has been done.
Here and there in the fields a peasant and
his wife were painfully filling up the shell-
holes and preparing their shattered holding
for the plough. Some of the inhabitants of
the towns have returned and occupied the
semi-circular army huts that w6re left be-
hind. There is a row of them at Peronne
looking like the settlement of some Escjui-
mau tribe. They have hung lace curtains
at the windows, planted pitiful little gardens
and put up their shop signs. New Bapaume, a
congeries of wretched hovels, has been built
out of the rubbish of the old town. In the
shell of a church we saw a girl with a shat-
tered right arm rooting amongst the ruins.
When she looked round at us we saw she
had the face of an idiot.
Except for the army waggons collecting
war-material and the English and Austra-
lian graves detachments whose work is
nearly finished, there were few signs of an
orgainsed effort to restore the devastated
area which, like a livid scar, stretches across
the face of France from the Belgian border
to Switzerland. To the tumult of war has
succeeded the horror of deathly silence.
A ribald inscription in good Australian on
a broken wall at Pont St. Quentin; a
theatre, such as I have seen in up-country
villages in China, built by the Chinese
Labor Corps; an English officer and an
Indian private buried by the Germans in
one grave—these are some of the incongrui-
ties of a war which levied its blood-tax on
the world. There are 500,000 British graves
in France and Flanders. They are gathered
in great, bleak, well-kept cemeteries amidst
the desolation of the fields. There are 400
of these cemeteries. The little white wooden
crosses —to be replaced later by tombstones
of a uniform pattern—stand in long, straight
military lines, and there are no individual
monuments save those raised by Australian,
Canadian or other troops to a particular
battalion. The British Government has just
made known its decision not to allow indivi-
dual memorials to be erected, both because
of the practical difficulties and because there
should, it thinks, be no sense of differential
treatment of the dead : officers and men who
fought and fell with the same courage and
the same devotion in the same cause should
have their names and their services perpetu-
ated in the same memorial. It is a logical
but harsh doctrine, yet there is something
overwhelmingly impressive in those leagues
of standardised w T hite crosses. In their
awful arithmetical simplicity they are the
best symbol of modern war. which dresses
nations in universal khaki and crushes them
into one universal grave.
Out of the Valley of Death, where the
dugouts are like homes of a vanished race
of cave-dwellers, through fields full of
French graves and British cemeteries, along
perished avenues of trees ringbarked by
machine-gun bullets, we passed through the
remains of Villers-Bretdhneux and that
battered but still breathing wood where Aus-
tralian bodies formed a barricade of living
flesh against the last German advance to-
wards Amiens. Coming out of that wood
and the country behind it was like coming
out of a cold and abandoned hell into the
world of living men. Here at last were un-
scathed villages clustered around tiny white
churches beside brooks which flowed. Here
the road was a stately avenue of budding
trees between smooth and cultivated fields.
Over a distant rise, in the soft spring sky,
the cathedral of Amiens floated like a vision.
Every hill was capped with woods and every
valley full of life and misty streams. Behind
us, running up and over the most distant
hills and as clearly defined as the track of
a forest fire, was the devastated area we
had left behind.
We were the vanguard of a million tour-
ists who are coming this year, out of rever-
ence, love and curiosity, to visit the battle-
fields. Some will search for graves and some
for German helmets. There is a new army
of 500,000 Americans already on the way.
In Amiens I talked to a lonely Australian
soldier of the graves detachment. He hoped
that more would come. He wished that all
the world could see those scars before they
healed. For time is drawing a veil of indif-
ference across the horror in men’s minds
just as Nature is drawing a mantle of grass
and wild flowers over the worst horrors of
the battlefields.
M. G. SKIPPER.


Your best
move
Low First
Cost and “a
wonder at
the price.”
m
x
.■
A
w
m
ass
Low Running
Cost. All “Z”
engines use
KEROSENE
fuel.
m
m
m
£
A
WOP
Easy Starting on
the coldest day.
Oscillating Mag-
neto gives a quick,
hot spark every
time.
wt
S*
M
N#
Throttling Gover-
nor gives a
smooth, steady
speed all the time.
m
m
m
-
as
Speed Regulator
adapts the engine
to different loads
while running.
s&M
m
m
&
Fuel is fed by
pump, so that
there is no danger
of your carburetter
flooding.
Two balanced
flywheels give a
“Z” the steady
rhythm that you’ll
appreciate.
m
&
a*
■
The “Z” is
simple—easy to
run, easy to get
at. Removable
Cylinder head is
one of the fine
features.
m
X
Avoid a “check”
by writing to the
nearest Agent
shown below.
m
m
X
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., 586-588 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MALLOCH BROS., 52-54 William Street, Perth.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
m
m
9
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Carpet Tax”: Carpets are being made
by a firm in Sydney, and Millers, the Mel-
bourne rope people, are turning out the yarn.
The carpet manufacturer tried to get yarn
in free from overseas on the ground that
it was unobtainable in Australia. Advised
to look around and make certain, he found
not only that he could get the stuff here,
but that it cost less than the imported
article. •*
* * * *
“Boyd Cable” (London) : I hope that when
Australia starts to develop an air-mail ser-
vice you’ll go about it in a more reasonable
fashion than the postal people are doing
here. The air mail to Paris has been the
silliest arrangement possible, and has been
wing-clipped almost to failure by fool regu-
lations. To begin with, nobody knows any-
thing about it except that the service has
flown almost every day against trying wea-
ther, and once at least when the Channel
crossing was so bad that the boats were held
up. But 99 men out of 100, if they wanted
to send a letter to Paris by air, would not
have a ghost of an idea how to set about
it. There are only certain post-offices where
a letter may be handed in, and few know
where these are. The charges are prepos-
terous, and the idiotic restrictions have re-
sulted in machines making the trip most
days with about a dozen letters on board.
Yet Holt Thomas, who has managed the ser-
vice, declares that if the Post Office would
give a guaranteed load for half a dozen
machines a day air-letters could be carried
to Paris for an extra Id. apiece, allowing
the P.O. id. for its extra trouble and id.
for the air co., at which the service would
pay handsomely. All the P.O. need do
would be to say that all letters to Paris
bearing an extra Id. stamp and marked
clearly “By Air” could be posted in any
letter-box or P. 0.. and when collected would
be sent to the ’drome and pushed off by
air instead of by train and boat. On the
actual journey there would 'be a saving of
about six hours, and there are few business
houses that wouldn’t send at least half of
their mail by air to make such a saving of
time at such a slight cost. I’ve heard no-
thing of any postal air service in Australia,
and I’m wondering why. If it could be
run at anything like the cheapness Holt
Thomas claims, it ought to be a booh and
a blessing. Think of the saving in time
between here and you if mails were flown
from Sydney to Perth, as they could easily
lie. The mere offer to fly letters for a penny
or two extra (restricting the weight if you
like) would surely.give the full loads which
are about all that is required to make a ser-
vice. show good orofit.
* * * *
“Camelero" : Talking about big logs, this
couple of saplings will take some beating.
A maple (red beech) log recently shipped
to Sydney from Cairns (N.Q.) had a girth
of over 27ft., and was Oft. in diameter. A
kauri-tree which was felled.near Itavenshoe
(N.Q.) contained over 24,000 super feet.
This wood is now worth £1 per 100 ft. at
the stump, so the herb ran into £24o—nearly
enough to buy a couple of cauliflowers in
Sydney.
“Naming”: The effects of an overdose of
eucalyptus are like those of seven gin cock-
tails on a mild drinker. One of the most
unholy domestic rows I ever witnessed hap-
pened when an office pal took an indiscreet
swig of extract for a cold and I toted him
home. His wife fell on us like a typhoon,
blasted every word of explanation on my
paralysed lips, and drove me forth. When
Prohibition comes I can see a queue at the
local chemist’s back door all violently sneez-
ing and blowing noses and praying for a
gum-juice straight.
* * * *
“Tulagi,” from the British Solomons
Why do copra-growers avoid the Sydney market?
The March prices (the latest I can get) explain matters:
8.5.1., £3O per ton; Sydney, £4O; London, £7O.
A liberal allowance for freight and selling charges
between the Solomons and Sydney is £5 a ton. So
long as such a disparity exists between Sydney and
London, or between Sydney and anywhere else, the
copra trade will strive to cut Sydney out. The Com-
monwealth consumes only a fraction of the copra
which comes to Sydney from the South Seas. The
consumption is between 10,000 and 15,000 tons,
whereas in 1913 28,000 tons was transhipped at
Sydney to Europe, and, in addition, a considerable
quantity of copra was carried direct overseas by
vessels touching at Australian ports. Briefly, Sydney
is a collecting, not a consuming, port for South
Sea copra. Regarding goods, roughly 50 per cent,
of the Islands’ requirements are supplied by Aus-
tralia (with a sane tariff Australia should be able
to bump those figures up to 80 per cent.) ; the other
50 per cent, are European, Japanese or American
goods distributed by Sydney merchants. If Australia
loses the copra trade she will lose a large portion of
the merchant-distributing trade also. Australia’s
problem is to retain both. Shipping copra to London
or U.S.A. via Sydney is geographically equivalent
to shipping wheat to London via Macquarie Island.
And the Island grower has to pay the extra freight
and handling charges. America and Japan are new
and serious competitors for the trade. America is
favorably situated, insomuch as it is a large con-
sumer of copra, and a manufacturer of goods suit-
able for the Island trade. Japan is also a manufac-
turer of Island trade lines, and has the advantage
of double loading—her ships can come down with
rice, “trade,” and European and American goods
picked up at one of the Eastern entrepots—Singapore,
Hong Kong or Kobe—and return with Island produce,
either for her own consumption, or for transhipment
to Enrope or the U.S.A. Already a Japanese steam-
ship line, the Osaka Shoshen Ivaisha, is touching- at
Rabatjl, and talks of sending to the British Solomons.
Australia will have a stiff fight to retain the business.
Her best hope of success lies in becoming a consum-
ing market for copra, by manufacturing and exporting
margarine. Failing this, an attempt should be made
to keep trade in British channels by arranging favor-
able through rates via Sydney to the U.K.
“Searchlight”: I have seen some big
timber in my time, including the Gippsland
giants, but never the equal * of a pine-
tree that we cut on the Dorrigo. It was
straight as a pencil and went up 120 ft.
before there was a limb. It' was 12ft.
through at the saw-cut, and we had to splice
our crosscuts in order to handle it. The tree
when sawn gave sufficient timber to con-
struct four six-roomed cottages, and then
there was enough over for an out-house or
two. Some trees that we left standing,
though not quite as large in girth, would run
the giant close. The burnt butts of pine I
saw on one selection at Eastern Dorrigo must
have belonged to similar shrubs. There is
still plenty of pine in Eastern Dorrigo, but
its position makes it extremely difficult to
operate with profit. It is in some of this
country that eagles have to wear brakes to
descend the gorges.
“The Mad Hatter”; The number of quick
(and quack) shorthand systems now being
pushed calls for protest. Impossible claims,
such as “150 words a minute after six les-
sons. ’ are made on behalf of most of them.
Many of these “new” schemes are based on
old failures, and some of them cannot be
written any faster than “Lucid Shorthand”
(invented by Herbert Spencer’s father), by-
means of which a giddy speed of about 80
word's a minute was possible. I am an un-
biased Pitmanite—so unbiased that I
admit that Pitman’s system may lead inex-
perienced, unintelligent or ignorant writers
into error. No method of writing—not even
longhand—can be fool-proof, and the marvel
is that there is any system that allows of
verbatim reports of men like Millen, Watt.
Peacock, Prendergast and Tunnecliffe, all
of whom can be relied on for at least 200
words a minute. The value of any “new”
system may be tested by anyone for himself.
Pet him ask the instructor to take down
150 words a minute for five minutes and
read the matter back. In most cases the
instructor will wilt like a week-old lettuce.
* * * *
“T.A.R.” talks timber :
“Smikes’s” high opinion of celery-top pine may
be all right, but isithe stuff available in quantities suffi-
cient to replace imported pine? There are several
woods in our coast ranges better than any imported,
but we haven’t got enough of them. White beech,
mostly used for carved work and ferry-boat decks,
is one of the few staunch woods in the world. It
is, when dry, quite impervious to damp or'dry air,
and will not shrink or swell; but it takes two years
to dry a 3 x 1 batten thoroughly. You can take
a dry board and immerse it for a week, and it
will be dry under the first shaving. A boat built
of it will never get water-logged. It also makes
the best furniture 1 ever saw, except Queensland
maple. There is no known timber equal to the
imported Oregon for lightness in proportion to
strength, and it is hard to see how we can do
without it for heavy and high scaffolding and long
stretches of roof, ladders, etc. Redwood seems to
be the only timber available for ordinary joinery,
and is not the best for the purpose, being too light
and soft and easily damaged ; but it is free of knots,
does not warp, twist or rot in the weather, and is
unsurpassed for skirting and architraves, mouldings
and facings. There should be no objection to im-
porting these woods if they are paid for by exports
of woods to America to balance trade. We have
many hardwoods that they require. But it is
madness to import oak and walnut or ash and
hickory for making furniture, buggies, carts, wag-
gons and so forth when we have timber like maple,
beech, hoop pine, bean, rosewood, spotted gum,
ironbark, mountain ash and dozens of scrub woods
going to waste or up in smoke by the million feet.
If northern N.S.W. can get separation and establish
its own towns, it will supply the whole of Aus-
tralia with these timbers or goods made from
then;.
PEEPING TOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see her in the broken shed
Where sunlight falls between
The broken boards with ivy spread
And flecks the floor with sheen.
The soapsuds in her auburn hair
Like jewels hang and cluster,
And on her skin, snow-white and bare,
The little bubbles wink and stare
With eyes of rainbow lustre.
I peer the broken timbers through,
And see her warm round neck;
With opalescent gems this too
The little bubbles fleck.
Her dimpled elbows claim a sigh.
I dread an angry snub,
For none is e’er permitted nigh
When, hidden from the vulgar eye,
Kate’s at the weekly tub.
Her little breasts are very proud,
Her cheek has just the glow
You see on some translucent cloud
When Summer sun is low.
Her hair is glory red, her lips
Are like two breaking buds.
My mind is full of pretty quips
And similes when Kitty drips
Among the snowy suds.
Of making this dear creature mine
I feel a fervent hope
When peering thus I see her shine
With honest, yellow soap.
No sculptor may with subtle skill
So fine a figure pose
As Kitty stripped of blouse and frill,
And set to rub and scrub and swill,
Expertly washing clo’es!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
THE HOLY NON-UNIONIST’S PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the N.S.W. Industrial Court, before Mr. Justice
Edmunds, a special Board was constituted for persons
whose work consists of cleaning places of worship.”
A broom is banging among the pews;
The air is full of religious dust;
The stain'ed-glass saints get intimate views
Of well-darned stockings and shoes all bust.
’Tis well in Heaven to put your trust,
But this world needeth a union strong;
Ana, though it break him, the vicar must
Pay more for shoving that broom along.
Her tracks with hymn-books the cleaner strews;
Her eyes are bright and her chin out-thrust.
The curate kneels when he hears the news:
“Thou knoweth, Lord, how for more they lust.
But yield them all if their claim b 6 just.
Yea, smite with shillings her ready palm;
My stipend, Lord, may be then discussed.
Give her some more—it can do no harm!”
(Rattle bang—boom ! Hear that broom again
Mixed with the sigh of a faint Amen !
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
TRADEMARKS
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH*
WHEN the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “ Three piled rifles” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cycles.
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A,
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the “Three piled rifles.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
r*
T
\
r\
y)
£
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained. Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
' # free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A.tCo. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


Can’t Beat Cocoanut
Oil for Hair Wash.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil la pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on A couple of teaspoonfuls make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And. best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time. . , , ,
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Callouses.
0 Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
'cK
-vs
This is a wonderfully easy,
quick and pleasant way of
freeing your feet of corns
and callouses. Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-Ice right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes.
The corn or callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
*
is for men and women who appreciate neat,
fashionable, attractive footwear and foot
comfort also. With Frozol-Ice you enjoy
both. There’s no pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-Ice, nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding, healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice, and never let your corns
ache again. You’ll be delighted with it.
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Every
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists, High-class
Stores, etc.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is .very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder or
compressed tablets—never liquid or milk—
and is not a laxative. Any first-class chemist
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia.
The Procession of the Kiswa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JN September, 1917, when I was on
H.Q. duty, I postponed the war for a
couple of hours and went to see the
Kiswa, which was that day carried from
the Citadel to a Cairo mosque, the first stage
of its journey to Mecca. The Kiswa is the
Holy Carpet. Of course it isn’t really a
carpet at all; for Egypt is a Gilbert and
Sullivan land where things are not what
they are named. It is really the valance
or tapestry with which the Prophet’s tomb
at Mecca is draped, and once a year the cara-
van travels to Mecca and Medina with it
and the Mahmal and a company of pilgrims.
No one quite knows about the Mahmal, what
it is or why it is, but it has always gone to
Mecca with the Kiswa, and probably always
will while El Islam continues. One story
is that it was originally the palanquin in
which the Queen of Egypt, Shagaret El-Durr
(Spray of Pearls in English), made the pil-
grimage; but the authenticity of that tale is
doubtful. Anyhow, the Malmial is now car-
ried by a sacred camel, and travels to Mecca
and back each year. The sanctified oont
does this three months’ trip annually, and
for the rest of his days he neither toils nor
spins, and takes his meals regularly. Prob-
ably he is rather pleased that Spray of Pearls
did go touring; though, being a camel, it is
quite as likely that he views the whole matter
with cynical indifference.
Three of us, a comfortable gharry-load,
were in the party to view the proceedings.
Firstly, on account of his superior weight,
the Khwarga, fat, good-humored, more
Italian than anything else; secondly a Greek
(name unspellable), one of the young bloods
of Cairo; thirdly, me, an A.I.F. sergeant.
We started up the Mousky, the most native
of the main streets of Cairo. The footpath
and roads were crowded with sightseers and
holiday-makers, but going at a slow walk
and stopping every few yards we finally
turned up one of the narrow streets without
any casualties. Along this street the pro-
cession was to pass. The people were packed
like sardines, and it seemed we must run
over a few here; but we never heard any-
thing of it, nor saw any ghastly relics stick-
ing to the wheels, so perhaps we didn’t.
The crowd thinned off suddenly, and we
found ourselves facing the holy procession,
with an Egyptian trooper shouting to our
driver to get off the track.
A few mounted police on handsome grey
stallions headed the procession; then came
a mob carrying banners inscribed with verses
of the Koran, while the bearers chanted ex-
tracts from the holy book. And then I saw
my first saint. He was on a very poor horse,
and two attendants bore green banners above
his head, shading his sacred person from the
sun. He was a fat old saint, with a head
several sizes too large for him—a head which
looked as if it had been hastily modelled in
plasticine; and he sat like a bag of flour
on his sorry quadruped. After him followed
more banners, and then another saint
mounted on a donkey. This was a little
humpty saint with the expression of a kind
fowl, and had I been in the market for
saints I should have given 2d. more for him
than for the first. Pilgrims and holy men
followed along in column of route, some
astride donkeys, but mostly walking. One
man who was pointed out to me as being
particularly holy wore a flowing cloak so
mended that it looked like a patchwork
quilt, and I fear virtue had been with him
its own reward.
This finished the first part of the proces-
sion, and we sat back to wait the next
instalment. The Khwarga bought a large
sweet-potato—a Cairene can’t stop in one
place for three minutes without buying some-
thing eatable from the hawkers who swarm
in the streets. About this time I noticed that
our young Greek companion was casting his
eyes heavenward a good deal, and knowing
that neither sun-worship nor Christian piety
was his strong: point I took an observation
myself. Every building that lined the nar-
row street had a balcony, and every balcony
was crowded with women; some with veils,
some without; some shy; all very interested
in the proceedings. Few women were visible
in the streets, but I had noticed crowds of
them and their children in the doorways and
windows of every mosque on the route.
Just as the Khwarga was half-way through
his sweet-potato a beggar came along with
what had once been a head and face wrap-
ped round with a shawl. Covered up it
looked bad enough, swollen and abnormal,
and he wanted baksheesh to take the wrap-
pings off. Finding none forthcoming he
pulled away the shawl and demanded
(through another man who led him about)
a piastre to put it back. The young Greek
hastily gave him two, thus forestalling me,
who would willingly have given him three
as long as he got away quickly. The
Khwarga seemed, for the moment, to have
lost his appetite, and gave him what was
left of his sweet-potato.
Then came two buskers, and of course
they must give a performance for the benefit
of the Effendis in the gharry. One man had
a tambourine with which he provided an
accompaniment. Putting their heads close
together they chanted and made faces and
whirled the tassels of their tarbushes; having
a European audience they chanted a refrain
which they thought could not fail to please—
“ Tar-rah-rah boom-de-ay”—and closed the
performance by sharply slapping each the
other’s face, which was entirely in accord
with my own views. We bribed them with
a couple of piastres to go away; but the
crowd enjoyed the performance immensely.
It takes very little to amuse an Egyptian.
After this diversion the Khwarga got his
appetite back and had a couple of ice-cream
wafers and some cockles. The crowd was
happy and good-tempered, but there was not
much piety in evidence. A few' men were
pulling each other about and rolling their
eyes wildly, and the gharry-driver explained
that this was due to Allah, these enthusiasts
being so filled with religious fervor that they
didn’t know what their bodies were doing.
After the passing of the Carpet, also, Allan
entered into one man and he laid about him
with a stick. Some of the victims combiued
and took his stick away, and he was quiet
for a while; and then he continued the offen-
sive with his lists, lit' punched a venerable
old Bey, knocking him down; but the old
chap just rose rubbing the point of contact,
and said “Allah il Allah!” as if nothing un-
usual had occurred. When last we saw the
fanatic lie was rushing up the street dis-
tributing right swings and left hooks while
the crowd parted hastily to let him through.
The Khwarga and the young Greek were
just having a social glass of liquorice-water
together when the second instalment of the
procession arrived. A native band came
first, blowing its hardest, and then a
machine-gun section of the Egyptian army
(the escort to Mecca) ; some cavalry fol-
lowed, smart-looking lancers on little bay
Arabs with heads a straight line from crest
to nose, arched necks and compact little
bodies —pretty sights to Australian eyes.
And then came the pidce de resistance, the
Holy Carpet, the same consisting of several
pieces of black cloth or tapestry with Arabic
characters worked in gold, and carried on
long supports which looked like draped biers.
The crowd kept dodging out in twos and
threes to touch the .sacred cloth, or brush
a scarf or handkerchief against it, in spite
of the efforts of policemen to keep them back.
The police looked very fierce and solemn, and
carried canes with which to impress their
authority on the younger members of the
crowd, but seldom put the things to use.
The Carpet, the Khwarga told me, is re-
newed yearly, and costs the Treasury a
lot of money.
After the Carpet followed the Mahmal, a
draped canopy, borne by the holy camel,
which chewed a meditative cud and looked
very bored. . There are two Mahmals: one
is taken to Mecca, and one stops in Cairo;
they are both black canopies worked in gold,
but why no man knoweth.-
The Mahmal passed, and after it came
the hurrying mob which made the tail of
the procession. There remained nothing more
to see but the Oriental crowd —after all, the
most interesting feature of the day’s spec-
tacle —and through this surging mass our
gharry ploughed its slow way till we reached
the broad streets of the European quarter.
FRANK CLANCY.
A Yam by the Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ffe lIROUGH the long morning we
tramped on towards Galla Creek.
The hot north wind met us full in
the face. It came loping along from far
inland across the big, dry plains, and smacked
us with grasshoppers, and bore the mono-
tonous quar-r-rk of crows and the shrill song
of cicadas to our ears.
At midday we rested in the scanty shade
of a few gnarled box-trees, and lightened
the waterbag to make a drop of post-and-rail
tea. Then we lay back against our swags
and smoked.
J got thinking of our prospective camp on
the creek. A few remarks about the shade
of the grand old gums there set Joe talking.
Anything will set Joe talking. As it meant
a prolonged rest I filled my pipe again, and
encouraged Joe with attentive silence. He
wriggled into a comfortable position against
his bluey and commenced :
“Trees ain’t what they useter be in my
young days. Some’ow they ain’t got the
heighth nor the stren’th nor the fast growth
they useter ’ad.”
He paused for my contradiction, but I
renewed my silence' and he proceeded:
"Fifty year ago”-Joe peered out across
the plain, past straggling merinoes and
trS'jot
Gonn. That was in the cattle days, afore
the country was over-run with these flamin’
jumbucks. I ain’t bin down that way now
fer years. I suppose it’s all selectors an’
sawmills an’ perhaps a township by this.
“Well, in them days there wasn’t many
selectors. There was nothing much but
cattle an’ trees an’ blacks. The niggers
was as thick as flies—a reg’lar pest. They
useter hang about, an’ cadge an’ steal, an’
swap us emu eggs an’ spears an’ things fer
terbaccer an’ stuff. Their camp was in a
place we called Cockietoo Bend. 1 never
seen such a place fer cockietoos. It was
alive with ’em—more birds ’n there’s grass-
hoppers along this track. They yelled an’
screamed every evening till they nearly druv
us crazy. They nested in the gums—away
up hund’eds o’ feet. The noise got so had
we reckoned' somethink oughter be done.
..... „ , . . .. . ,
“\\ell, along in one springtime he boss got
WUb a ,” leat IUJ M ; '
A little gingery cove ’e was, with a sorter
pointy beard. He was on fer gettin’ the
blacks to make a raid on the trees at night
and kill all the cockietoos they could reac i
an smash their eggs. _
“We mustered the blacks fer miles along
the river an’ cricks. They come in swarms
to the homestead, where the boss got up on
a stump an’ addressed ’em in their own lingo,
He promised them loadser terbaccer if their
work was successful, an’ enough flour an’
tucker to keep their spears idle fer weeks,
O’ course the blacks agreed. We’d be there
to keep off the debil-debils, an’ climbin’ was
child’s play to them. Ever seen ’em at it?
They' useter out toe-notches up the trunks o’
the trees, an’ wriggle up like spiders. They
would climb to the nest-’oles an’ reach in fer
the eggs. If they couldn’t reach ’em they
chopped the hole bigger with their tommy-
hawks an’ crawled in.
“Now, there was one tree there that was
famous all along the river. Big Ben we
called it. It stood ’ead an’ shoulders above
all the others, an’ it was still growin’ so’s
you could see it. Hundreds of the cockietoos
useter camp on it, an’ we guessed it was
holler awav up near the top. There was a
blackfeller in the tribe, name o’ .Tacky, who
beat all the rest at climbin’. He was a mar-
vel. The nearest thing you ever seen to one
o’ those airyplanes; so nachally Jacky got
the job o’ tacklin’ Big Ben.
Well, the night come fer the attack, an
up they goes. In a little while wallop comes
a bird. One of the fastest climbers ad
reached the lowest perch an’ screwed a neck.
Then it began to rain birds. They come
down in flocks like snow, an’ we had to back
out o’ the timber. O’ course there was a
few cockies got away. We could hear ’em
squawkin’ up above.
“After that there was silence fer a bit, an’
then—smash ! smash! smash ! It was the
eggs cornin’—millions of ’em—squashin’ an’
splashin’ 6n the ground, just like hailstones,
only more of them. It was a great clean-up
an’ no mistake.
“When mornin’ come you never seen
such a sight. The dead cockietoos was piled
up in ’eaps feet high; an’ everywhere was
the yaller marks o’ broken eggs. / never
seen the likes in all my days.
~T TT , . ' , . ,
YVe ad a sort o holiday that mormn ,
handin’out rations to the blacks. Then they
cleared out towards Swan Hill, an w_e set
to work to clean up the bend a bit. We
slung the birds in the stream an’ let ’em
drift off.
“About a week after some o’ the blacks
come up an’ asked us about Jacky. They
swore they’d forgot about ’im in the excite-
ment, an’ ’adn’t seen ’im since. They were
so sure that it set us thinkin’, an’ we went
over to Big Beil. At the» foot of the tree
we found Jacky’s tommyhawk. Then there
was a commotion. We persuaded some of
the tribe to climb up an’ do a bit of bound’ry
ridin’. We watched ’em till they went up
about four hund’ed feet, an’ then they started
to chop. It appears they saw some marks
an’ new bark. They cut a big piece out o’
the tree, an’ then—spare me days !—out
crawled Jacky! It seemed ’e’d cut ’is way
into the tree that night up in a young,
lively part o’ the barrel, an’ the hole ’ad
grown over an’ trapped ’im. And as ’e’d
dropped ’is tommyhawk outside the tree
as e’ went in’ there ’e ’ad to stay. But ’e
come down none the worse.”
Joe tightened a bootlace and , stood up.
I sparred for time.
“But how did he manage to live in the
tree?”
“Live?” Joe seemed surprised at the
question. “Why. on eggs, o’ course! The
tree was still ’alf full w’en they got ’im out.”
Then -Toe lifted his lady-love and we
moved on against the north wind.
RIVERINA.
With Plug and Firestick.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS putting in a holiday with my
friend Sutherland in the Cape Marsh,
group. The first Saturday we went
fishing. Our outfit consisted of a 14-foot
skiff, three “boys” with paddles, a smoking
firestick and 10 plugs of dynamite.
We glided past the copra driers’ red-
roofed stores, past the light, waving green
of the plantation and the dark green of
the wet-footed mangrove, and the skiff nosed
into a little bay. The. water was about
12 feet deep, and had a sandy bottom dotted
with multi-colored rocks. Sutherland held
up his hand, the signal for the paddles to
cease. He touched the smoking firestick
with the fuse and threw the hissing plug
30 yards ahead. There was a muffled explo-
sion, and the boys dipped their paddles and
raced to the spot. Then over the side as
one man they went down, down into the
sand-whitened water.
I thought they would never come up. To
me the seconds seemed hours. And then
I saw the fin of a huge shark.
“My God,” I shouted, “they will be eaten
alive.”
Sutherland laughed.
Just then a boy came up. He grabbed
the gunwale with one hand ;in the other he
held an SOlb. fish.
“Look out,” 1 said. “A big fella shark
down there, Jacky !”
“Yes, master,” he laughed. “He kai kai
too much fish.” And down he went again.
Another boy came up holding two fish
by the tail with his teeth and one in either
hand. He dropped them into the boat,
grinned, rubbed the water out of his eyes
and ears, put his hands over his head and
went south again.
By this time the water had cleared, and
I could follow the lithe, sinewy movements
of the boys as they caught a fish or chased
a stunned one careering round, white belly
uppermost. Again and again the shark
picked up a fish from under their hands,
but they took little notice.
“Don’t they ever?” I asked.
“Sometimes,” said Sutherland, “they lose
a hand, but not often, and then it’s not in
an actual attack. The shark snaps awk-
wardly at the fish in the diver’s hand and
takes a bit of hand along with it. Sharks
are too dainty to eat nigger when there are
good fish around.”
Sutherland lit his pipe and again stood
in the bows, looking at the boys who were
now swimming quietly about the boat. All
of a sudden he got excited.
“Get in the boat quick!” he yelled. “Get
in the boat, do you hear? Quickfella;
quiekfella more!”
“What’s the matter?” I asked as the boys
tumbled into the skiff.
“A sunfish,” said Sutherland, “and isn’t
he a beauty?”
“Where is he?”
“Coming up to the opening in the reef.
Can’t you see his flaps breaking the water?”
And then I saw the big flat monster, flap-
ping lazily along.
“Half a ton if he is an ounce,” said
Sutherland, who was busy tying two plugs
of dynamite together. “I’ll chance three
double-plug shots at him if he makes for
the opening in the reef.”
He lit a fuse and threw. It landed a
little to the right of the opening. Napoo.
Again and again he threw, and both shots
landed fair in the passage.
“He never noticed the plugs,” said Suther-
land. “As a rule they scoot as soon as a
shot touches water. Jacky and Misse washy
up quick. Talunga, you take line go down
make fast along him. But wait we look he
die, finish.”
Talunga grinned. “Alii’, master. We
savvy too much along this fella. Before
long Malaita me see fella throw away spear
along onefella all same. Now he jump up
dose up he catchem moon ; now he fall down
along top canoe. Canoe he break all to
pieces an’ two fella man he die finish an’
one fella man close up.”
When we got over the place where the
plug had exploded we saw the sunfish lying
still. 18 feet below.
“Down you go,” said Sutherland; “he
can’t fightem you now.”
Talunga watched for a while, and then,
satisfied that the ’ray was past doing him
any harm, he went down with a line in his
teeth and a knife in his hand.
“The sunfish is about the only fish in the
Pacific that boy is frightened of,” remarked
Sutherland as we watched the white soles
of Talunga’s feet go down. A few seconds
later his black, laughing face bobbed up
again, and we hauled the ’ray to the surface
with the line which Talunga had made fast
through a hole cut in one of its flaps, and
towed it home. That night the boys of
Panaroa plantation feasted far into the night.
And I lay awake with a touch of fever
and thought of two barefooted boys tickling
trout in an Australian mountain stream
long ago.
WEE BOBBIE.


Pabcolin
Theiarlistic durable
floor covering
PABCOLIN
has one-third more high-
grade wearing surface than
any other printed floor
covering.
PABCOLIN
requires slightly more care-
ful handling than lino, when
laying, but when in position
is more serviceable. It is
made to wear and not to
tear.
PABCOLIN
is not linoleum, but is the
best floor covering in the
world, and is made in a big
range of beautiful patterns.
v,
M
d
w
1
mm
w:
98 i
.
m
PABCO
PRODUCTS
Obtainable from all the LEADING FURNISHING HOUSES
and GENERAL STORES throughout AUSTRALIA,
or
WHOLESALE FROM THE SOLE AGENTS:
William Adams & Company Limited
SYDNEY—I7S Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE—S2I-3 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—Cor. Mary & Edwards Streets.
PERTH—33-35 King Street.
ADELAIDE —96-98 Currie Street.
NEWCASTLE —Howard Smith Chambers,
Watt Street.


-
f
£
<53
BBD
g
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting) ; starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4, 5, 6£ and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET, PETRIE’S BIGHT, BRISBANE.
(Trams pass near by.) Works—Yeerongpilly. [2
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty’s “Kissing Time”
Criterion “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
■KOTaIi ; “Three Wise Fools”
“Bran Pie”
Onion Theatres Moving Pictures
J own Hale Evans-Gange Concerts
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Passing Show of 1920”
Royal “Yes, Uncle”
kings “Kindling”
livoli “The Man from Toronto”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
Assembly Hall Norman V. Pearce
Of the artistry of Fraser Gange and Amy
Evans there can be no doubt. To the
rich quality of their well-trained voices is
added a sense of poetic values which makes
their concerts a heaped fragrance. They
botli possess a super- sense of time-values,
and that contributes enormously to the suc-
cess of their orchestral numbers. Fraser Gange
first proved himself to Sydney in “Vulcan's
Song,” and that Sydney which renewed its
acquaintance with him after 14 years, and
another younger Sydney, prepared to be
critical, soon wilted in the heat of its own
applause. The richness of Amy Evans’s
voice first welled out in Bruch’s “Ave
Maria.” Of course there were encores, de-
spite the living protest of Verbrugghen, with
whose orchestra the singers appeared. Their
own concert on Thursday was a garden of
poesy. Handel and Puccini opened the list,
and Gange was not afraid to’ follow his
first Oratorio outburst with “When the
Swallows Homeward Fly.” Miss Evans, who
again sang the prayer from Tosca, had to
come back again and again, and the musical
traffic of the evening was stopped by the
clamor that greeted the breath of Spring
which she manages to transmit when she
tells what happened “Down in the Forest.”
For the rest there were gems of R. L.
Stevenson, of Byron and Ben Jonson. Cecii
Parkes, showing the good result of much
hard work, took his double encores with
pleasure; and Laurence Godfrey Smith in-
terpreted Macdowell and Chopin with the
agile fingers Sydney knows so well. Vern
Barnett played the accompaniments.
“Tilly of Bloomsbury,” which arrived at
Sydney Criterion from Melbourne on Satur-
day night, is a storehouse of memories as
well as an amusing entertainment. There
is the fashionable lover in middle-class sur-
roundings (“The Man from Blankneys”) •
the poor little girl who receives the unkindest
cut of all, an offer of financial help from
her young man’s scornful mother (“Miss
Gibbs ) ; the bailiff who acts as butler to
deceive the visitors (any old farce from the
Restoration Period downwards) ; and so on
The defects of the play are its talkiness
and its irrelevaneies, the most conspicuous
among the latter being a curate, lifted bodilv
from Ihe Private Secretary.” who comes
and goes, like a,madman’s dream, in the
• much of the characterisation
is skilful, and it is pleasant to hear English
again on an Australian stage after so many
years of the American language.
* * * *
Pirie Bush has a stout part as the bound-
ing Cockney brother of the heroine. But
“Kindling," at Mel-
bourne King's.
Steve Bates.
(John Fernside.)
his “quiff,” his out-
rageous clothes and
his M.C.C. tie do
not belong to Rus-
seH-square, which
is a fairly fashion-
able part of Lon-
don these days,
despite its boai'd-
ing-houses. T h e
character as Bush
presents it is more
suggestive of Ken-
nington or the
Mile End-road.
Another part
which is over-
played and over-
dressed to the
detriment of the
unity of the show
is George Blunt’s
M r. Stillbottle,
sheriff’s officer. He
is a diverting old
outrage, and col-
lects more laughs
than the rest of
the characters put
together, but his
slapstick methods
are out of the pic-
ture in a comedy of manners such as this. One
red? is under-played, that of Lucius Welwyn,
lillys drunken father. Percy Rhodes de-
picts an inebriate without a tremble of the
hand or a stagger of the walk; one whose
pale, ascetic face, mellifluous voice and clear
articulation would do credit to a Rechabite
lodge. Dorothy Manville does Tilly to per-
fection ; and the one weakness of Frank
Freeman, as Dick Mainwaring, who words
her on top of a ’bus, is an occasional actor-
ish tendency. Mrs. Brough as the haughtv
Lady Marian, Emma Temple as Tilly's
aspirateless mother, and Arthur Styan ‘as
Dick s father are all admirable; and a
cleverer or more individual sketch of a
flapper has seldom been given than Dorothy
Seacombe’s ’Melia.
* sk Hz
Sydney Playhouse is now sheltering
McEwen, whose job is “legerdemain., tele-
pathy, mesmerism and hypnotism.” Various
citizens who are tired of the hard facts of
life are making the pilgrimage to this dis-
tant theatre to watch sleight-of-hand and
see hypnotic “subjects” make asses of them-
selves ; but the joking Scotch showman
would not be able to count his admirers if
he would mesmerise so much as one profi-
teering tradesman into selling goods at
reasonable prices. There is an unlimited
demand for spookery of the right sort.
“Kissing Time” sails lightly on its way
hke a bunch of thistledown before a fresh
Southerly breeze made of melody. The
Sydney lovers of light music and frivolity
are still hurrying along to Her Majesty’s. ‘
“Three Wise Fools,” with ,T. D. O’Hara
as the wisest of all, have now' established
t lemselves at the Royal. Having been
evicted from Sydney Cri. to make room for
“BRAN PIE,"
AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Lottie Sargent as the homely housewife
instructing George Gee in the art of
housekeeping.
1 illy of Bloomsbury,” the Fools are now
congratulating one another that there are
three of them. It takes more than one
tool to find a vacant house in Sydney.
“Bran Pie” still attracts enough people
to pay the rent of Sydney Tivoli and leave
a bit over. Lee White’s friendly smile is
the shows best asset. Verna Bain and
hei dances are graceful additions to the
list of attractions.
It is understood that Sydney’s Inspector-
al 1 0^ ce been asked to send
one of the flood-relief boats to the Palace,
wiiere the Taits every evening cause 500
points of ram to fall within five minutes
on the “Tiger Rose” landscape.
* * *
Mae Murray is Sonia, a Russian dancer,
at Sydney Globe and Ilaymarket. Being a
Russian dancer, of course she has veins filled
with heady wine instead of ordinary blood •
and also her feet are delirious with the dance
rpj, er - , In the “Vmled Adventure” Constance
Xafmadge massages away your wrinkles in a
marvellous beauty-parlor scene at Crystal
hi;lf Ce um ld tie StraoL The Lyceum shows
Ufive Ihomas with a new .style in hair-
dressing and dance pyjamas. However, a
dying gran dad-by-marriage offers possibilities
of more ready cash than seems likely to come
from being the “Follies Girl” of the title, so
Olive leaves the high-lights and turns into a
imnLstenng angel. The same bill has “Old
Lady 01, with Emma Dunn as lead.
, i \ r H la . v like “Kindling,” now showing
at Melbourne King’s, offers Emelie Polini
few chances for the exercise of her subtle
craft. Continually tempted to melodrama
and almost yielding in the second act, she
is mostly content in the preliminary proceed-
ings to wear a white face of impending
calamity and put her charming voice in
mourning. Towards the end she brightens
up, but the sunshine isn’t sufficient compen-
sation for the previous gloom. Harry
Roberts, as Shules, promises well in the
nrst act, but when he begins to ladle out
molasses as an expectant father, his prox-
imity _ to bathos is so close that they might
be said to be living together. Maggie Moore
bustles through the part of Mrs. Bates with
a cheeriness that warms the heart of the
local proletariat. John Fernside’s super-
fluous brutality as Steve endeavors to create
an impression that is achieved by his face
Wlth °«t over-acting. Even John's smile
would drive the bravest pugilist into hiding.
Mane JW as the sweet girl friend of
Maggie Sliules, demonstrates how the
righteous are punished with insipid charac-
teristics; whilst G. Kay Souper, as Marie's
young man, flits in the background with-
out helping the story. Olive Wilton, as
Mrs. Burke-Smith, restores the lorgnetting
dowager to the proud, inhuman position
trom which she had been formerly dashed
b.v humbler performers. Victor Fitzherbert
talks the classy sentiments of Fifth
Avenue in the manner of a Roman emperor,
and John De Lacey is the eternal cop who
switches from a purr to a blatant yell in
• to assert his sagacity. Gregan
McMahon is the producer, and is presum-
ably responsible for the savory tea of fried
liver and spuds which Mrs. Bates attacks
like the last survivor of a famine.
Of “Yes, Uncle,” at Melbourne Royal,
tlie advt. says that it introduces the vim and
snap of gay Paree, and no advt. could say
anything kinder. The story remains as it
was in the beginning. Marie Eaton continues
to be unduly excited on account of William
Greene, and George Willoughby is still the
commonplace lunatic brother who shoots an
apple off William’s head. The mouth of
hrith retains its immense possibilities for
broad comedy effect, whilst the eyes of
Gracie- Layers are still the largest features
ot her performance. For the rest—-well, the
winsome personality and whirling grace of
Madge Elliott are stamped with the finest
characteristics of Australian girlhood. (Be
still, fluttering, heart, lest thou leadest into
extravagances!)
At Melbourne Tivoli the fate of “The Man
from Toronto” is never in doubt from the
moment the little widow slips her hands
under his arms to adjust his jacket across
his chest. On Wednesday (matinee and
evening) last week the usual blonde widow
was resting, and her large place in the per-
formance was filled by Miss Leslie Graham,
who gave the lady a brunette appearance and
was quite at home in her attractive charac-
ter. Ordinarily Miss Graham impersonates
the prancing daughter of the house of Hub-
bard, so her joke was played on this occasion
by youthful Rosalind Courtneidge, whose own
part as the glorified tomboy from Canada
doesnt begin till the second act. Next
night Margaret Swallow resumed her duty of
listening, patiently whilst Bobbie explains
that kissing Martha, the parlormaid, is much
the same healthful recreation as chewing an
apple before breakfast.
“The Passing Show” at Melbourne
Majesty’s supplies the want, if anybody
wants revue of that sort. Such as ‘don’t
want will signify the same in the usual
manner. Memory can hardly be expected
to fondly cling to many items in an enter-
tainment which concludes! its first part with
the old pantomime device of bell-ringing all
over the place, but there are bits of “Pass-
ing Show” not so easily forgotten as the
bulk of it. One thinks, with tears in one’s
eyes, of an interview between Phil Smith
and a stout lady called Verbena (Hetty
Hartley), after Philip has brought along
Jennie Hartley, disguised as an alleged baby,
m a go-cart. The incident is not a choice
sample of new humor, yet it is as cheer-
fully ridiculous as a Punch-and-Judv show.
Some weird examples of freakish frocking also
recur to one’s mind in moments of despon-
dency. There is no suggestion of beauty or
reasonableness in these futurist costumes,
jot the recollection lives. They leave one
with an impression of having dreamed of the
deceased Gazeka in a garden of gollywogs.
A quiet show in Melbourne:—
There is a welcome collection of etchings at the
Decoration gallery. Norman Lindsay makes the
biggest appeal in two or three characteristic prints,
whereof “The Curtain” intrigues the bald-headed
with its display of luscious contours and a festive
midnight air. John Shirlow is well represented by
several old friends, including “The Central Station,”
v ith its graceful outlines and swagger foreground
shadow. Sydney Ure Smith’s fascinating dexterity
is conveyed in “The Old Mill” and “Old Govern-
ment House, Windsor,” and he catches the glamor
of history in his neat little studies of ancient
buildings elsewhere. The most vigorous performer
of the crowd is Bruce Robertson, the Newcastle
man. He handles his needle like Brangwyn, cre-
ating by massive shadows and subdued half-lights
a singular illusion of mystery and decay. You
see Bruce at his best in the print of the over-
hanging houses in Dinan and “Coming Storm, Pit-
tenween, but even in his more delicate manner
he knocks you with a print like “St. Andrew’s from
the Sea,” or the lovely gum-tree (No. 32). Fred
A. Campbell has 13 aquatints that present thin,
fleeting impressions, almost at the vanishing point,
whereas David Barker is comparatively hard and
matter-of-fact in his bits of Baghdad and other
wild places. Among Victor Cobb’s nine subjects
a mezzotint of a coffee-stall has a cheery, inviting
look this bleak weather. Herbert Rose produces
some effective little plates—his “Collins-street by
Night” has an insinuating charm.
At Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week Harry
Carey battles with Bill Hart and Tom Mix
for the world’s belt in gun-play in a tumul-
“Kindling,” at Mel-
bourne King's.
Rafferty (John de
Lacey ) prepares for
action.
tuous effusion
called “Under-
ground Red.”
Albert Ray and
Elinor Fair are
unreeled in “Tin
I’an All e y.” a
romance written
around a cigar
store and a violin ;
and at the Lyceum
George Walsh, as
“The Shark,” pro-
vides violent ex-
citement on an
American tramp
steamer. At the
Melba Eugene
O’Brien in “The
Broken Melody,”
follows the usual
emotional trail
beset by the warm
attentions of a
lady-admirer until
he finally anchors
in innocent bliss in
Greenwich Village,
New York. At the
Britannia the cur-
rent programme is
shadowed o’er
with the mourn-
fnl personality of Sessue Hayakawa in
"The Tong Man”; • but Chaplin, in “A
Day’s rleas.ure,” skips to the relief of suf-
ferers.
' * * * *
“His Little Widows” - has introduced a-
batch of fresh players to Adelaide. As given
at the Tivoli, Rex London is the small,
hard-working comic man, Hugh Steyne the
lighter artist with the Grossmith touch.
Vera Pearce has mainly to look sad at
losing London, on whose personal charms
she lays surprising stress. The widows are
much as before, Kitty Barlow having the
commanding part, a reversion to the old
Gilbertian idea that a massive woman is
bound to be both unattractive and comic.
The Digger Pierrots are still at the Royal.
These Maorilanders are right up to profes-
sional standard —Tanno Fama a sound
humorist, ilanna a versatile artist, and Stan
Lawson in his make-up has a striking resem-
blance to a well-known real girl of Adelaide
society. Singing and orchestra are good.
Eugenie Duggan scores at the King’s in “A
Daughter of Mother Machree,” which is of
the “Fauntleroy” and “Peg-o’ my-Heart”
class. This house is to have a monopoly
of drama for some time yet. Leon is hypno-
tising with great success at the Exhibition,
Moisciwitsch, coming to Adelaide, comes
to the home of his wife. She is not playing
at present, but at the Town Hall his piano
repeats its triumphs of the other capitals.
An absence of all affectations and his
mastery of the instrument make him popular
as well as successful. The general tendency
is to exhaust superlatives upon him, and
wonder whether his equal can be anyway
remembered. Rene Maxwell, too, has had
highly popular concerts, and is now waiting
to sing before the Prince —the shadow of
whose coming is already over everything
local.
“Boyd Cable” from London :—-
Made a tour of the Academy to-day, and eyes-
fvonted on any khaki. Most of these war pictures
may be pictures (I do not know—l am not an art
critic), but they are not war. Indeed, the only
conspicuous exception to this dictum is a big eight-
footer by Fred Leist of the taking of Mont St.
Quentin. It is the goods—nothing sensational about
it; just a straight picture of a bunch of the boys
working up the captured Hun trenches towards the
Mont. In the foreground a couple, “mopping up,”
wait at the mouth of a dugout like terriers at a
rat-hole; another, shoving a machine-gun into
position (made one’s mouth water to see it) to
enfilade the retiring Huns; another busy lugging a
stretcher along, and one Hun past caring whether
a stretcher came or not. His face grey and stiff-
looking—it jarred amongst the live, ruddy ones, as
it did when you met it in the real thing; In the
background the Mont getting strafed good-oh. It
did an ex-gunner’s heart good to see how scien-
tifically it was being plastered, and therein Leist
has raised a monument to the little-heard-of work
of the guns. Altogether his picture is a winner
as a representation of the actual abominable busi-
ness of war. I say “business” meaning it, and what
I like most of this picture is that it shows it as
the business it was. By a happy chance (it’s almost
too good to have been an inspiration) a portrait by
Cowan, another Aussie, of General Monash, who
stage-managed the Mont St. Quentin show, is hung
next door to Fred Leist’s masterpiece.


i
?£</1.
%
m
wm
mms
m
mmMmmmmd
M
V
mam
WmmMXmmmk
\-Wmmmm3s-
*
■n
$Ns
liSMig
{&» ;•/'
wJsft&wZm s? sv.' ; v
S|«
fili, •t j
$ If V
■VI
■-- ■ . -■
r -;
>fMHi
■
Ugl
smmwsw £
B 111 II
i - i
***«■»
Sft'iHl £/Ju
'
: ;■-'
fc'v
K * •
:■;■
w:
! A&
'■■■:
m
S-4 lift
.. .jr ■'.
*S>f
jn
< sr-v MK
m.
Jss.@
Kffft
■Ol
m
m
mm
UK
W
f
'
. •■ .
pggiil
fM#* 3
Electric Light ana
Power for your country home
The magic of electricity from Western Electric Power
and Light is putting new life into country homes all
over the Commonwealth. Instead of using kerosene
lamps and other dirty, dangerous lighting systems,
thousands of country dwellers, miles from an electric
supply service, now switch on their lights every night
just like the smartest house m town
All the benefits that a city dweller obtains from electric
current are provided by Western Electric Power and Light.
Because of its big, strong battery, there is an abundance
of surplus current for other uses besides lighting. Mother
and the girls can enjoy the delights of using a sewing mach-
ine, washing machine, iron, toaster, and many other mod-
ern labour-saving appliances, all operated by electric power
So clean, so quick, so economical
In addition to having a larger battery than other plants,
Western Electric Power and Light protects the battery by
charging it the right way This is most important, as the
battery is the life and soul of a lighting plant The Western
Electric Outfit gives the battery a Tapering charge—full at first
and then gradually diminishing When the charging is com-
plete the engine automatically stops
The Western Electric Plant has another valuable feature. When
not charging the battery, you can use the engine for driving light
machinery. The whole plant is controlled by a simple switchboard
and requires no expert knowledge to operate it.
BIG REASONS WHY WESTERN ELECTRIC
POWER AND LIGHT IS BETTER.
BATTERY—I 6 cells, capacity 180 ampere hours at 8-hour rate
of discharge. Intermittent rating 288 ampere hours. ENGINE
__j V 4 h.p. 4-cycle, air cooled, throttle governed. Runs on kero-
sene, and feeds itself with fuel and oil. GENERATOR 1500
watts. SWITCH BO ARD —Automatically controls the outfit.
Complete with instruments.
Write for 20-page Book to your nearest agent.
The Outfit is easy to buy
Western Electric Co. (Australia) Ltd.
192 Castlereagh St., Sydney 262 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AGENTS . T Tonks, Elizabeth Street, BRISBANE. Newton McLaren,
ADELAIDE Medhurst Electric Co., 11 Argyle Street, HOBART A. D. Riley & Co.,
Umbton Qyay. WELLINGTON N.Z Also at Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin.


Exclusive
Stewart Dawson’s
Out-rivalling in Variety and Splendor the
Richest "'Displays of the World’s great
Commercial Centres.
Stewart Dawson’s rare Diamonds are set
in Pure Platinum, and are without doubt '
the last word in Quality and Value.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jeicellers of the Empire.
D992s—New Design
Single-Stone
Diamond Circle
Brooch. Platinum
and 15-ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
KB24—Beautiful
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, £25.
KlB2—Elegant Design Pine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and' 15ct. Gold, £2l.
KlB0 —Choice Design Platinum Faced Dia-
mond Set Brooch, £B/10/-
KlB3 —Artistic Design Pine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2O.
KBlo—Fine Quality
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch* Platinum
and 15ct. Gold,
£3O.
K997—Dainty De-
sign Diamond Set
Circle Brooch,
Platinum and
15ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Mounting's
Rare Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
wdiich is continually being added to.
Remember high-grade stones are a
rnanent investment.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Snell” : “The Passing Show of 1920” in-
troduces something of a novelty in isolated
colored items occupying a large and
darkened stage. Theatrical producers have
been slow to discover the striking
effect of isolation that has been known
to every artist in paint for a thou-
sand years. In “The Passing Show”
this planting of a dazzling bit of color and
brisk, movement on an otherwise empty stage
awakens new thrills. A little ballet in old-
fashioned saucer skirts similarly isolated is
beautifully done. But the judicious patron
will discover the entertainment to have been
mainly a series of elaborate and exquisite
settings for songs that are in themselves
worthless.
“Fax” : Melbourne critics profess to note
a gain of culchaw in. Horace Stevens’s voice
since he returned from the war as a captain
in the Dental Corps. They speak of the
“almost-tenor ring in his top register” as
though it were a very exceptional thing for
a baritonic basso to have tenorish high notes.
The voice, or voieq-production, of Horace
Stevens was always exceptional. He is one
of the very few instances of a boy soprano
singing on into manhood without any pause
for voice-breakage, until he developed a deep
baritone. The choir boy, who got a not-at-
all-exacting course of tuition from poor old
“TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY” at
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Charles Truelove, invented his own method
of voice-production to carry him through his
teens, and though now still in the prime of
life he has been singing in public, in church
choirs and on the platform for more than
30 years. His voice production must be all
right if he can nowadays improve in his
singing.
“Cuthbert C.”: Hettie Hartley, of Wil-
liamson’s revue company, has renewed an
old romance and become engaged to Claude
Cohen, who toils on the Paloona. The lady’s
real name is Isaacs and she was one of the
original Lee 1 Sisters. She met Claude in
London 10 years ago, and when she saw
the handsome seafarer again she decided that
she had not noticed anybody in the interval
she liked better. He also comes from a
theatrical family. Jennie Hartley, her sister,
has a husband, who is visiting Australia
with her.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Albert de Courville.
of the Hippodrome, has invited the public to
state whether it wants him to produce Ger-
man and Austrian theatrical goods once more.
He has been offered the English rights of
successful musical comedies, one of them by
Franz Lehar, said to be better than "The
Merry Widow” ; but, pending an expression
of public opinion, he has declined them dll.
“Nearly every London manager,” he writes,
“has a German play on his shelf. Some
have agents in Germany on the lookout for
good things.” But, seemingly, each wants
the other to break the ice.
“Get Busy” : When is the tariff going to
be thumped oil the imported films so hard
that the shock will
establish a string
o f motion-picture
studios in Aus-
tralia? I’m fed up
with the Yankee
“cosmetic cuties,”
and so is everybody
else. Strenuous
efforts are occa-
sionally made to
produce films in
Australia, and
mightly good stuff
is turned out
alongside rubbish;
but the rubbish is
no worse than a lot
of the American
stuff thrust upon
us. Given the right
sort of encourage-
ment, the motion-
picture would be
made a business
here; that is, the
production side
would be developed
with the same
thoroughness as the
exhibiting side.
Further, and what
is the most impor-
tant to the film-
manufacturer, the
market would em-
brace him with
fair terms for dis-
playing his pro-
ducts. It is no use
springing the old
tale that it can’t be.
done because of the
limited market.
Australia couldn’t
“The Man from
Toronto ,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Margaret Swallow as
Mrs. Calthorpe
disguised as a maid.
make chocolates that the naicest people
would buy. .But that was once. Now we
turn ’em out in carloads, and find a market
abroad for what we can’t chew at- home.
Madame Stralia —Elsa Fischer —has signed
a contract with Beecham for a 12 months’
opera season, commencing September next.
She plans to visit Australia when that job
is finished.
“0.K.”: A successful screen version of
Barry’s “Admirable Crichton” suggests
that the spoken play has never had the'
success it deserved. Barrie’s comedy is a
fine satire on the facts and fictions of civil-
isation, the unnaturalism of “high life” and
the deplorable reality of class distinction.
Perhaps the very truth of the satire ex-
plains the comparatively cold reception
given to the play in Australia years ago,
and the reason why a revival has never been
attempted. Crichton is such an eminently
adaptable creature of circumstances. Hav-
ing the soul and training of a butler he
buttles admirably in the household of a
pompous old earl. Being the brainiest and
most forceful member of the party, he natu-
rally becomes ruler of the uncharted island
on which the earl’s yacht is wrecked. Thus
far the romance is not strained beyond the
limits of possibility. Nor is it less than
probable that he would return to his old
job of buttling when the earl’s party is
rescued and taken back to London. Civil-
isation has made a “nobleman’s servant” of
Crichton, whereas it has made a slave to
social conditions and conventionality of
Lady Mary, w r ho was quite prepared to
marry Crichton when they seemed casta-
ways for life on the desert island. But
the play makes a hero of Crichton; there-
fore the audience mostly disapproves <of
Lady Mary marrying the unpleasant nin-
compoop—in her own rank of life —who was
subservient to Crichton on the island. And
the notion of the butler returning to his
buttle among the very people he had lately
dominated is not popular.
“Stargazer”: Whatever may be said
against the perfect artistic quality of the
American screen play, it is to the Yank pro-
ducer that Australians must turn to dis-
cover how to remedy the outstanding defects
of the home-made film. The American man
with a story to tell in light and shade dis-
plays an infinite capacity for taking pains.
We have just been afforded a good oppor-
tunity of comparison in “The Heart o’ the
Hills,” a Mary Pickford play, and “The
Breaking of the Drought.” an Australian
effort, both dealing with the people on the
land. In the American product the choice
of types is perfection. Every man looks
precisely as if he were going his daily round.
In “The Breaking of the Drought” there
has been no discoverable effort to get men to
look like bushmen and dress as bushmeh
dress ; and every man has an air of having
been loaded into unfamiliar garb for the
occasion. Your Yank woodsman’s togs
crease to his figure ; he seems wholly at home
in them. He belongs to them and they
belong to him. It is in detail that the Aus-
tralian film fails most markedly, and this is
saying much, since it is only through devo-
tion to detail that a picture-play can be
made convincing.
“Billy T.” : The management of one aus-
tere jazz-hall in Melbourne shows itself
extremely particular about its lady patrons,
and hardly a night passes without sweet
young things being invited to put on their
things and go. One .night recently, atten-
tion having been drawn to a tall, dark, pre-
possessing female in a costume that did not
start to be a dress till late, it interviewed
the dame, and told her with studied polite-
ness that it was a nice night. “Do you
mean that I am asked to leave?” said the
lady sweetly. “Well, we are giving prefer-
ence to ladies in full-dress, or at least two-
thirds,” replied the manager. “Oh, yery
well, I am sorry. I did not . imagine for a
moment ihat there was anything objection-
able about me.” “Well, madame. you see
we have .to be very careful.” “Oh, to be
sure —it would not do, would it, to reduce
your place to the level of an ordinary society
ballroom.” “We are very sorry, I am sure.”
‘'Oh, don’t mention it. please.” By this
time they had reached the door. “Good
evening, madame,” said the manager. “Good
evening, sir,” said the insufficiently-draped
patron. Then suddenly she bared her claws
and got at that luckless man ks a valiant
cat at a greyhound, and when she was done
with him he was bleeding from nine nail-
furrows in his face, his coat was torn up
the hack, and his shins were kicked to rags.
“There, you —— ,” said the ejected
dame, “how the ——- did you know I wasn’t
a lady !”
“Orb”: While the Fullers, with weekly
changes of bellowdrama at several theatres,
are using up all the old and new thrillers
they can lay hands on, it seems odd that
none of the Charles Dickens plays are re-
vived. Oliver Twist, for instance, should
‘go big,” and “Jo” (“Bleak House”) would
stand resurrecting. In Jenny Lee’s day
“Jo” was a sure draw. And what fine cos.
were put on to it, too! At Melbourne Prin-
cess’s in ’B9, with Jenny Lee as Jo, J.P.
Burnett was Jenny’s husband: Mary Weir
(Mrs. J. 0. Williamson) was Esther; Polly
Emery v'as Ouster: E. W. Royee, Snagsby ;
Edwin'Kelly, Sir Leicester Dedlock : B. N.
Jones, Tulkinghorn ; George Walton, Guppy;
and Fanny. Musgrove, Rosa. Two star
comediennes and five front-rank comedians.
Yes, I’ll say it—yre don’t get such shows
nowadays.
“Emdee”: There can be- no doubt about it
—Handsome George’s name was Rignell;
and few persons with a musical ear will
quarrel with' him for making' the slight
change to Rignold.
“Aldash”: Another mummer who has
found pulpits useful is The Bulletin’s
friend “Norbell.” He and his wife were
on my recruiting staff in Bananaland, and
during their country tours “Norbell” never
failed to volunteer as a lay reader, in which
capacity his deep and beautiful voice invari-
ably charmed the congregation and prepared
them to favorably receive the honeyed an-
nouncement regarding the recruiting meeting
which he was “about to hold after the ser-
vice.” The fine elocutionary powers of both
“Norbell” and Mrs. “N.” stood them in good
stead, and they won hundreds of recruits
for the A.I.F. even if they didn’t win many
converts for the Lord’s armv.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” reminisces:—
Looking over a sheaf of ancient playbills I
renew acquaintance with some of the fine “old
women” of the stage who flourished in the ’fifties
and ’sixties. Three I can focus—Mrs. Vickery, Mrs.
Alfred Phillips and Mrs. Bellair. The first-named,
as Miss Richardson, made a name at Drury Lane.
Coming to Australia under engagement to George
Coppin, she supported G. V. Brooke, as Lady Mac-
beth and Volumnia, and in other leads. In these
characters, as in Mrs. Candour, she had no equal
then, and I have seen none since. She died in
Melbourne, the result of an accident at the Theatre
Royal, and is buried in the Melbourne General
Cemetery, near a group of Thespians—Hattie Shep-
pard, Marie St. Denis, Ellen Mortyn, G. H. Rogers
ahd others of note. Mrs. Alfred Phillips was born
in London in 1822, the daughter of Mr. Elsbee.
On his death the widow married Mr. Gardiner, who
was then well known on the Irish stage, and who
performed in Australia in the ’fifties in Irish
comedy. At 15 his daughter wrote a plav, and she
made her debut as an actress at Bangor in Wales.
She met Alfred Phillips at Dgver. He was then
the low comedian of the company. A short acquaint-
“THE FACE AT THE WINDOW .”
Showing daily at all telephone bureaus.
ance resulted in a marriage. At this time Mrs.
Phillips's. r6le was broad comedy. Soon after, while
at Davenport, the Phillipses decided to retire from
the stage. Mr. Phillips opened a school, and his
wife devoted her attention largely to the com-
position of lectures. The pair later went to London,
where Mrs. Phillips gave the first entertainments
offered by. a woman single-handed hi that city.
When Mrs. Glover retired, Mrs. Phillips succeeded
to her parts. In 1854 she came to Australia. Re-
tiring later from 'the stage the Phillipses opened the
Blarney Castle Hotel on Victoria Parade. The
lady died- in August, 1875. The third in my list,
Mrs. Bellair, was a Miss Deering before she gave
her hand to Tom Bellair. Her characters were Mrs.
Malaprop, Mrs. Hardcastle, Mrs. Wildbriar (“Ex-
tremes”) and such. The three were contemporary,
and had no equal's in their respective roles.
“Exotic”: Australian managements still
favor the' imported article to the exclusion
of native talent, which pines and withers for
lack of encouragement. Recent grand-opera
experiments have shown what our girls can
do, and, given similar chances in musical
comedy, pantomime, etc., there would be no
need to bring heroines and principal boys
from abroad. If our present visitors are
fair samples of London successes, then I
know a few Australian girls who ought to
make tracks for the Big Smoke at once.
Amy Rochelle is one I’d like to gamble on.
She has a better voice and better figure
than anyone on the London stage at present.
P.S.—-I’ve spent most of the last six months
inspecting the London stage.
“J.G.R.”: “J.F.11.” (B. 10/6/’2O) com-
ments on old playbills, and expresses regret
that no collection of such truck has been made
in Australia. When my theatre-going began, in
1878, some whim seized me to keep all my
playbills, and - being cursed, in a sense, with
method in my madness, I endorsed each with
the date of my attendance and attached one
or more criticisms of the performance. I
placed these in large scrapbooks, and I now
have 10 representing 30 years. A while
back I bought an interesting collection of
playbills, mostly Lorgnettes, from 1877 to
1882, bound in one volume of more than 700
pages. (Who the enthusiastic collector was
I know not.) It contains also a number of
biographies of old Australian mummers and
reprints of old bills. After Marshall, the
printer of the Lorgnette, ceased to publish
it, I bought, about 13 years ago, part of
his collection of English theatrical maga-
zines, from which many pars, in the Lorg-
nette had been culled. The drayload in-
cluded a file of The Theatre (English) from
1878 to 1897, covering the best part of
the Gilbert and Sullivan and Henry Irving
periods, and containing about 500 fine theat-
rical portraits. I secured at the same time
over a score of Era almanacs, now''practi-
cally unprocurable. Much -other dramatic-
miscellany has come my way during the last
40 years, and I can’t be the only hoarder.
“Norbell”: The late George Evans Laber-
touche, one-time Paymaster of Imperial
Pensions in Sydney and brother to Peter
Paul of that ilk, once Minister for Railways
in Victoria, told me a yarn apropos the
wonderful memory alleged to be possessed
by members of the Royal family. Lab. was
a member of the Escott-Sqnires Opera 00.
at the time the Duke of Edinburgh was in
Melbourne, and was introduced behind the
scenes at the theatre. Months later Lab.,
no longer a mummer, was a guest at Govern-
ment House, Sydney, and was again pre-
sented to Edinburgh, who asked at once,
“Ah, Mr. Labertouche, did I not have the
pleasure of meeting you in Melbourne at
the theatre?” Granted that Lab. had a nose
which could not be mistaken, still under the
altered conditions it was a pretty good feat
of memory.
THE HIRED ADMIRER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The time I write of rival pros.
Were on at warring houses.
No circumstance that mortal knows
The rage of actor rouses
With fiery and impetuous flow
That hints at wrath of Hades
Like proof that some opposing pro.
Is gaining an outstanding show
Of favor from the ladies.
Devoy against the marked success
That Handsome Will was winning
Had one fair dame whose eagerness
Had set the city grinning.
Where Will had scores of ladies fair
Whose orisons were 0.1 v.,
Devoy had’one, who from her chair
Would throw him notes, and locks of hair,
And now and then a bouquet.
Devoy had hopes that quite a choir
Would follow her example,
But she remained alone. His ire
Was eloquent and ample.
She, too, fell off in zeal. Said I:
"Your air now quite remote is.
You love him not.” She winked an eye,
“He’s sacked me,” was her sad reply—
hl’ve got a fortnight's notice!”
VICTORIA,
STARGAZER.


m
1
lUtlllllllltlllllllHUllUllltllllflllUllllllilllKlltli
■
ill
*
Uglli lllllllfl |
* ijmiiiiiiiiK
sflllllllllllllg
V *
I \ .
srv. • ; -s--
SC
sniiwiHimuniiiutiiitit
UllllfllHlllllliflllillllHii
9
.
DEWARS
WHISKY
Whisky—when it is good—is
the embodiment of
PROGRESS and HAPPINESS
Progress is the result of our endeavour to
justify our existence. It is the essence of life.
The fruits of progress are the legacies of one
generation to another. It is our duty to enjoy
them. Last generation gave us Dewar's
Whisky. Let us shew our appreciation!
Happiness is mental, not material. It is the
faculty to appreciate, not the faculty to obtain
that means happiness. The happiest man on-
earth is the one who succeeds in getting what
he wants and then is able to appreciate it —
like the man who asks for
DEWAR'S WHISKY
gets it and enjoys it. That's happiness I


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Reclfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WMITTY
j CAP C
CAC- 1
[cwc-
C-A C- '
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SAIFS OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Ssdney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
C-A C- |
C.-A-C’
CAC-
1 CA-C-
The moral of this year’s Grand National
Hurdle was, as usual, “Youth will tell.’' Times
have changed since the race was instituted. Since
1887, when the distance was first fixed at three
miles, 11 winners have been undoubtedly aged—nine
of them in the first 17 and but two in the following
17 years, while two in either period being marked
“(i or" a.” As the pace improved the average age
of winners diminished. The time for last Satur-
day’s event being a., record, the three places were
filled by five-year-olds.-
Bright Plume, the good thing, proved not quite
good enough. Perhaps lie left the race on the track
when he ran a “great trial” at the beginning’ of the
week, but more probably Sandule is a better horse
at the weights when fit, and was never fit until the
day. This page remarked that Sandule had run
“well enough” on a recent occasion. The son of
■Sands of the Orient didn’t deserve to be neglected in
the betting, seeing that he led the field a dance
during- an important stage of last year’s National,
When he was only a four-year-old. The betting
market, however, is mostly governed by suspicions,
which are frequently false. Because Norman Godby
trained Sandule it was assumed that he wasn’t seri-
ously endeavoring to beat Bright’Plume, trained by
brother Cecil Godbv, and said to have been heavily
backed by Sandule’s owner. On paper tli? 50 to
one chance had respectable pretensions to win, and
should at least have been solidly supported at 20’s.
He may be said to have won the race as soon as the
field settled down to its long journey. He soon bad
a. lead of three lengths, and without having ever
been headed the rank outsider won bv two lengths
from a cert. The third horse, Tullilah, finished
seven lengths behind the second, so the reputation for
staying power Which Bright Plume got from the
0. N. Godby stable was justified. Tie wore down
everything except the pace-maker, who seemed to
stay just as well as the runner-up, and had done
all his staying in front. A faulty jump, half a
mile from home, may have taken some steam out
of the Bright Steel horse. Or, maybe, he lacks
brilliance entirely. Anyhow, ho couldn’t catch
Sandule. As for the older nags, they never were
in it. When the field arrived at the third mile;
where the struggle really bee-ins, the order was
Sandule, Youghal, Bright Plume and Leddington;
then Merry Bob, Mabu, Tullilah. There were nine
aged horses in the field, hut only one of them, Malm,
had an earthly seven furlongs from home.
The Steeplechase, due on Saturday, is a different
proposition, in so far that age is no disability, up
to a point. Given heavy, going anything may win.
Also, with the risk of a had jump on its own part
or an awkward topble-over on the part of its
nearest neighbor, anything may lose. The objection
to Aintree is youth and inexperience, to Sir Prim
that his burden is rarely carried to the fore at the
finish of a National, and to Kinlark that, with
smaller pretensions than Sir Prim, on paper, he is
handicapped within 41b. of last year’s winner. Tolaus,
Vanitor, Cobram and Algous are possibilities. Moun-
tain God is the most tempting place investment.
next to Sir Prim; others are not to he despised,
as they say in the sporting classics. Without believ-
ing in any one of them as he believed in Bright
Plume, this scribe would sooner back Aintree, after
all is said and done, than back nothing at all. The
novice is likely to be in front for a while, if not
for all the while.
h aith in Mountain God’s ability to win
the Grand Nat. Steeple is based on the belief that
the big horse has greatly developed his jumping
powers since last year. All the same, it must be
remembered that he was sufficiently seasoned 12
months ago to run third to Algous and Sir Prim
in the fastest Australian Steeple, and on that run-
ning he has no special pretensions to beat Sir Prim
this time, on much the same terms as before. The
top weight, who had previously won the National
at Flemington, certainly outstayed Mountain God
over the four-mile course, although his absurd habit
of stopping when he ought to be coming in alone
enabled Algous to wear him down at the finish.
Mountain God was then five lengths behind the
second. Why is he said to have improved so much
as a stayer and a jumper (admitting that one
improvement goes with the other) that he can now
beat Sir Prim over the Flemington course, where he
has never yet been severely tested? He presents
all the appearance, of course, of waving been care-
fully readied-up for the most exacting steeplechase
of the year, but on paper he is not so dangerous
as Sir Prim, Vanitor or Aintree ; in fact, not nearly
so dangerous as Aintree. if the novice be a suf-
ficiently practised jumper.
A most irreverently treated candidate for
the two Cups is Drumfire, the imported son of
Lemberg, who was seized upon by rumor last year
as being the hope of Bradfield’s stable, whereas he
was really the despised. Drumfire’s weight for Mel-
bourne Cup is 121 b. less, and for the Caulfield event
it is 161 b. less than before, although he should have
improved with age, and is not quite such a mean-
looking customer as he was. If this frequent and
unmitigated loser was worth entering for the Cups
the handicapper has been kind in letting him in at
the minimum ; but Drumfire is an odd-made sort of
gee, who probably wasn’t worth entering. Very
few of tiie middle-aged bad performers are worth a
second thought.
F. Bullock, an Australian, rode Comrade,
the winner of the Grand Prix at Paris —the richest
race in the world. The prize of 12,000 sovs. is
chiefly contributed by the city of Paris and a rail-
way company. Bullock also has a Melbourne Cup to
his credit.
“Ablush”: The Maoriland idea (B.
17/6/’2O) of photographing racing finishes, and dis-
pensing with judges, might not be so impracticable
after all. Someone advances the developing inter-
val (15 minutes) as a bar to the adoption of the
scheme; but at the official opening of the Rock-
hampton Show, on Friday, June 18, a mounted photo
of the function was handed to the Show president
exactly seven minutes after it was snapped.
Lucknow, after being in the market for
months, has gone to the Richmond Park Strd (S.A.).
Whatever other qualities the fine, big-boned, red-haired
sire may bequeath to his progeny, there should never
be any doubt about their pluck. Lucknow was the
gamest and most consistent of all imported English
horses that old sports can remember. The only
objection to him as a sire would be on the score of
his seemingly delicate const''tbtion. No gee over
ivon a Caulfield Cup on a lighter preparation than
Lucknow’s, and the fact that, a fortnight later, he
was only beaten a head by the third horse in Mel-
bourne Cnp proved the Cudfidd winner a clinker, if
there was previously a doubt on the point.
THE GOOD THING.
H.R.H. : “How the devil did you come to
bach another winner, Halsey?"
HALSEY : “ Easy—it was the only horse in
the race you had running against you."
The South AuS. totalisator was on its best
behavior on the first visit of Governor Weigall to
Morphettville. In a casual handicap, with 21
starters, the unknown Sidburn went out with only
£3 15s. oh him, and, running a rotten second, paid
£l6l 11s. This is not quite a record for a second,
but very near it. Other useful dividends were 10
guineas and £ 12-odd (twice), and for a second
£lO Bs. It was £lO Bs. also that the winner paid
in Sidburn’s race.
The Princeling struggles to give as good
as ho gets. On his first (and unofficial) dav at
Rand wick he moved around and enjoyed his free-
dom. It wasn’t all winnings, however, and as he
tore up a ticket a Digger standing by inquired “Do
in your sugar, Dig?” Edward looked puzzled, find
the question was repeated. “Did I do in rnv sugar'?”
“Yes,” said the Digger, “did you lose?” “Oh—
er—yes, I lost four quid,” said H.R.H., and blushed
horribly at not having understood.
* * * •
Punters at the Wagga races decided that
Misconduct was the most likely thing for the Maiden.
The tip duly came off.
A Sydney owner is said to have parted
8000 guineas for Amythas, the crack Maorilander
of the season. It seems an abnormal price for a
gelding; but this one is only rising four years, and
is equal to beating anything, Gloaming included,
above a mile. So he threatens to earn a lot of
money if only at w.f.a. in addition to proving
a fine ad. for his sire (Demosthenes), who is
to stand in N. S. Wales.
Stanley Jones, of the U.S.A., one of the
tallest and lathiest welters ever seen in a Sydney
ring, engaged Llew Probert, the Welsh champion in
this division, at the Stadium on Saturday night.
Both were unknown and the house was poor accord-
ingly. However, those who stayed away missed a
wonderful scrap. The condition of the performers
was only equalled by,their valor, and for 20 rounds
they slammed at one another with an almost com-
plete disregard of consequences. The Welshman got
a points decision in the end, by no great margin.
The event of the evening was preceded by three
feather-weight contests. Apparently Australia has
given over producing heavies or even middles worthy
of being shown in a public ring.
Australia heat Harold Wagstaffe and his
Woodbines at Sydney Cricket Ground last Saturday
in the second League Test Match, the scores being
21 points (five tries three goals, which included a
bobby-dazzler field goal by Chook Fraser) to eight
points (two tries two goals). And the game carried
the “ashes.” The local 13, headed by the much-
maligned Herb Gilbert, appeared in the blue of N.
S. Wales, instead of in the correct Australian colors,
which are maroon and blue: England wore white
jerseys and strides. The game was fast and furious
from the time Ben Gronow hoofed off, until both sides
absolutely played themselves to a standstill. The
Kangaroos were like racehorses (the forwards especi-
ally sn), and the scrummers slung the leather about
in splendid style. Sandy Pearce, Chunky .Burge
and Shultz saw that Australia won the ball in the
scrums on almost every down, and it had nothing
to do with Australia’s vanguard that the score wasn’t
heavier. The invading scrummers were otit-inanceuvred
and out-rucked ;■ and to make things worse Ben
Gronow failed consistently to pilot a goal. The
Kangaroo backs were the nippier and more resource-
ful, I). Thomson, the erstwhile Bananaland serum
half, and Ricketty Johnson at stand-off being much
superior to the Tourists’ Twins, Rogers and Lloyd,
who nevertheless were the best of the Woodbine rear-
guard. Thomas, the visitors’ full-back, played his
usual clever game, only making one blunder, which
was when he speculated near his own goal. Bacon
played just as well as the Blues permitted him to,
but skipper Wagstaffe, who supported more Bulli
soil than any player on the field, was much
below form. Of the Blue backs Thomson was the
bright particular star. Viv Farnsworth was hiin-
Belf, and that means much; and Herb Gilbert per-
formed ably, but for his ill-judged line-kicking.
Vest, on the right wing, hung off too much. Harold
Border (whom some people expect to score each
and every time he handles the leather) was starved
out. And when he did obtain possession he was
overwhelmed. Nevertheless, Harold didn’t go looking
for opportunities as of yore. Chook Fraser was
never at a loss in a tight corner. He was a pill-
box in his position, whilst his wonderful field-goal
was plainly contemplated minutes beforehand. Tom
McMahon was the referee, and although the fists and
boots did occasionally fly, the reticent one had the
players well in hand. His decisions were, as usual,
correct. Fleetness and quick-thinking won the day
for Australia on an Englishman’s ground. Next
Saturday the third and concluding test will eventu-
ate: last Saturday’s 13 will take the field for the
Commonwealth, bar accidents.
* * ■» *
Of their nine matches in Australia the
Englishmen have won six and piled up 226 points
against 164. Heaviest scorers: B. Gronow, 26 goals
(52 points) ; A. Wood, 18 goals (36 points) ; W. J.
Stone and .T. A. Bacon, nine tries each (27 points) ;
F. Stock well, six tries (18 point’s), and .T Doyle,
five tries (15 points). Captain Wagstaffe only
crossed the line once (». Toowoomba), and the crack
half-back, Johnny Rogers, scored once (v. Sydney)
in the opening match. Generally, the efforts of
the team (except in minor matches) have not been
anything to write to J. Bull about.
England v. Toowoomba (Q.) Rugby
League match last week was remarkable for the
great goal-kicking of full-back A. Wood. Of Eng-
iard’s ten tries (seven of which were scored by W.
.T. Stone), Wood converted nine. England won by
48-28. Wood also scored heavily by booting seven
goals v. Orange (N.S.W.) earlier in the tour.
The tenth round of Sydney Rugby Union
football demonstrated the short-sightedness of Easts
in letting-Manly and ’Varsity get a break on. Drawing
with ’Varsity, for the second time, they could only,
pull out level. Mcßorie was the heart and soul of
Easts’ attack and defence, and G. Walker came
back in two senses. Morgan, Farquhar and Wallace
shone as hard as Easts would let them for ’Varsity.
Wests put up a surprisingly good game against
Manly: they led at half-time, and were onlv 10
points to the bad at no-side. T. Smith and Thorn
gleamed for the winners, and Chambers showed a
hit of pace. Shute, as usual, starred for Wests,
and Graham was the pick of the rest. Glebe-Bal-
main were able to take it easy and beat Newtown
by 21 points. The standard of play was poor.
Walters, of Newtown, however, gave a fine defensive
exhibition, and N. Scott also stood out. G.-B.’s
superior combination enabled them to literally run
over the disjointed Newtowniys, seven players cross-
ing the line, of whom Mavne, Friend and Bond
were the most prominent. In the Narths-Mosman
clash the forwards regularly got the ball out to
Humphries, and from him it went through the
backs like clock-work to end usually over the line.
Result, 30-11. Mosman made no attempt at com-
bined play, and spectacular efforts by Blackwood
and Trousdale helped little. Humphries stood out
on his own; and Cooney and Burrows deserve men-
tion.
* * * *
The rustle in Australian Rules football in
Sydney on Saturday was the 48-41 defeat of Newtown
(leaders in the premiership) by East Sydney. Both
sides kicked six goals ; the difference was decided by
behinds. Newtown led in the first quarter (13-6)
and at half-time (28-14) ; at the third the teams
were level (28 all). With 10 minutes to go New-
town led by 15 points, but Easts came with a rattle
and won with seven points to spare. In the other
matches Paddington inflicted the season’s record
defeat on Sydney by 102-17, and Railway (thanks
to six goals by Card) defeated Balmain by 71-35.
The premiership score now stands: Newtown, 24
points; and Paddington, Easts and Railway 20 each.
* * * *
In Melbourne football ’Roy presented
Richmond with its first defeat this season. A
fast, strenuous collision showed the Maroons always
a trifle more methodical and less excited,
and when the Yellow-and-Blacks saw' the game
slipping away they lost their heads altogether, so
that ’Roy outed them by 18 points—7B to Richmond’s
60. At East Melbourne ’Wood likewise reversed the
verdict of the first Saturday of the season by downing
Essendon—62 points to 55. The method of T he
Magpies’ play was shown by the fact that all their nine
goals were kicked by the forwards ; Essendon’s eight
were booted by placed men all over the field. After
playing a hefty game through the first half of the
season Melbourne has fallen to nothing, and was
soundly trounced by South, after an operation in
which it had little say and less credit —41 points
to South’s 85 being the tally. Melbourne’s trouble
is that it gets too much training and not enough
practice. The Saints went down before Carlton, but
without disgrace—Saints, 57 points; Carlton, 81.
Owing to “information re-
ceived” the League splashed
some of its revenue on an
extra allowance of law for
the protection of the um-
pires. It was just as well.
The Richmond barrackers
took their pets’ defeat
badly, and two or three
were arrested for stressing
their opinion of the un-
fortunate official in too
forcible a manner. Cer-
tain Ass. patrons also had
an argument with a luck-
less umpire, at the Bruns-
wick-Essendon match. ’Don
had walloped ’Wick by
two points earlier in the
season, and when the dose
was repeated by the same
margin—’Don, 49; ’Wick,
4 7—the supporters blamed
the umpire and chased that
luckless person into the
dressing-room. He escaped
without damage, but it
wasn’t their fault. The
other games weren’t im-
portant enough to merit a
public riot. ’Scray, North
and ’Town defeating P’ran,
Port and Brighton respec-
tively.
“FLAPPER”
HUGHES, Colling-
wood's popular fol-
lower)
Adelaide football barrackera are begin-
ning to look forward to a season as exciting as last
year’s, when it was possible for them still to argue
at the end that any one of about five clubs was
really the best of the lot. Sturt, at the top of
the premiership list, and West Adelaide, absolutely
at the bottom, met the other day. Sturt led com-
fortably at every point except the winning-post;
when that was reached the score was seven goals 10
behinds to each side. North Adelaide now heads
the list.
» * * •
The results of the Wimbledon tennis
championships so far published show that Britain
hasn’t a world-beater on the premises. Mrs. Lam-
bert Chambers, its best lady-player, has again been
defeated in straight sets bn Miss Lenglen, the
French girl, who, with (Jerald Patterson, has won
for the second time the Mixed Doubles trophy. In
the Singles only one Englishman, Mavrogordato,
reached the semi-finale, and he fell a victim to the
Jap, Shimidzu, who then lost' to the American
Tilden. England hasn’t won the Singles champion-
ship for years. It has been in the possession of
the Australasians, Wilding, Brookes and Patterson,
and now it goes to Uncle Sam, through Patterson’s
wild play against the challenger. In the Doubles
the Englishmen, Parke and Kingscote, had to destroy
the Yankee combination, Garland and Williams, to
get the verdict. They were not good enough.
* * * »
“Whitehall” : Monty Grover’s brilliant Lon-
don letters to Sydney Sun have the defects of their
qualities: in the pursuit of paradoxes they now and
then collide with the brick wall of inaccuracy. “Eng-
land,” he wrote last week, “firmly believes that
Barry is going to beat Felton. It firmly believes
that Bombardier Wells is the greatest boxer of the
age. If I were to offer to back Carpentier or Demp-
sey against Wells I would be able to find unlimited
money waiting at evens.” London Daily Mail
voices the opinion of the typical, Englishman as
accurately as any organ. As regards Barry, at the
very time when the papers were asking for money to
send him to Australia, it published the opinion that
the cash would be better spent in quest of a cham-
pion somewhere in the neighborhood of Felton’s age.
Everyone accepts Wells as one of the greatest boxers
of the age; so it would not be strange if some'Eng-
lishmen consider him the greatest. But as to back-
ing him against Carpentier, who, since June, 1913,
has made an absolute hobby of knocking the English-
man out within a round or two —well, when the
writer was in London in 1918 the man who talked
of such a venture was considered a likely candidate
for Colney Hatch. Englishmen may be keen parti-
sans, but with steamer fares at their present prices
it is unfair to the native-born speculator to create
an impression that they are the world’s mugs.
* * * *
South Aus. lacrosse selectors can throw
bouquets at themselves. They were lately asked to name
the State’s best XII to practise against the next-best.
Usually there is room for a good deal of doubt in
these cases, and the second choice may be about
as good as the first. But the judgment in this
case was so sound that the Best scored 10 goals,
the Rest 0. These were city men. There are
others. The Northern Areas sent a combined team
to town, and lost by only five to three against the
best that Adelaide could put in the field against
them.
THE CAREFUL PRINCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see, ’ mused Horace Stiffun, “he’s been riding on
the flat,
And also steering ’chasers over fences.
There was a time when I myself got up to games
like that
Till many thought that I had lost my senses.
I never could afford, of course, the dead-safe type of
prad
That the Prince performed on. In the circum-
stances
The fact that I still live denotes I wasn’t too dam’
bad.
I d have ridden more, and harder—with his
chances.”
“I used to bet,” Stitt', blithered on, “until the
Ring went cold;
I’d take the odds in thousands without flinching.
This Prince who punts in tenners isn’t what I call
half bold:
With him no angry threats of stoush or pinching
Could operate to cramp his style, or make him lose
his block.
Why, he simply hadn’t any hinder-ances /
Full credit, and a warship waiting if he took the
knock!
I’d ha’ banged the books for millions—with his
chancer
Take, finally, those ancient lures, the Female Sex
and Drink.
If one can trust the pictures in the papers
lie mostly chats with females who would make a
Satyr shrink—
Grim dames who bring black shame upon their
drapers—
While as for what, when 1 was young, we termed
“tlie flowing bowl,”
Why, lie’s hardly smelt one, even at the dances!
I never was a drunken or licentious sort of soul.
Still (I merely state) I tlksh I'd had his chances!
x.s.w.
10-2-4.


DON’T RUN TO SEED!
:■
Don’t let year after year go by without making some effort to
attain bodily fitness. If you do you will find yourself growing old
before your time, a martyr to indigestion and its consequences, a
sufferer from rheumatism, sciatica and other results of impaired
circulation, or distressed with asthma or lung trouble through
heglected breathing. Let me get you fit and able to enjoy both
the work and pleasures of your daily life.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
is thorough, modern and most successful.
The secret of my success with my clients is that I give each
and every one the most strict and personal attention in
prescribing my exercises—thus you would receive exercises
that are most suitable for your individual physique, just as
the particulars you furnish tell me what you require.
If you want to enjoy better health —to have a strong and
healthy body—write to-day for my booklet, entitled “Health
and Strength from Self-Culture,” which tells all about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement, and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage. I will know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Natural Health & Physical Culture Expert,
204 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
[VJIICEFIELD
Regef.
MOTOR OIL]
The BIG IDEA in
LUBRICATION.
BRITISH and BEST.
C.C. Wakefield
8 Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, Sydney,
and LONDON.
« WAKEFIELD
MOTOR
OIL
.
i .x.x:.
m
&
>; i
•:
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
No Gold
is too
obstinate
for
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
Its wonderful penetrating
powers get right to the seat
of the trouble and destroy the
germs that cause the cold.
. Greathead’s is no new-fangled
cure-overnight remedy, but a
reliable household medicine
of 45 years’ standing. It is a
sure cure for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat,
Croup, Quinsy, Fever, Ague,
etc.
GET A BOTTLE
FROM YOUR
GROCER
OR CHEMIST.
Think Well
Over It
and then make up your mind that
there is no longer any need to
suffer from Constipation— lack of
tone, depression, Indigestion, Dys-
pepsia, Morning Sickness, if you
will only use—
GREATOIDS
■—the Small but Great Liver Pills;
for these tiny little pills, so easy
to take and so simple and sure in
effect, are prepared from the finest
ingredients by an expert Chemist
with one object, and that is to
tone up the system, remove depres-
sion, and they
Will Cure You.
So whenever you feel a little out
of sorts and run down, just take an
occasional dose.
Obtainable at all Grocers’ and
Chemists’.
Small Size, 1/-; Large (Double the
Quantity), 1/6.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not afreet the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
12/- per lb. G/- per 41b. 3/- per 41b.
Postage—N.S.W: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
* SAMPLE TINS 1/4, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, LTD., 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importers. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
Homewood 8 O’Neill Pty. Ltd.
AGENCIES:
RHODES MOTORS, LTD., Yorkshire, England.
(Motors and Dynamos.)
ELECTRICAL, APPARATUS CO., LTD., London.
(Switch Gear.)
FOSTER ENGINEERING CO., Wimbledon, Londc
(Transformers and Electrical Welding Plant.)
FAIRBANKS, MORSE & CO., New York.
(Alternators.)
VULCAN WIRE WORKS, London.
(Wires and Cables.)
Large Stocks Carried of Lamps, Instruments, Meters
and General Accessories.
Manufacturing Specialists in Elevators, Hoists, etc.
Installations Carried Out.
INQUIRIES RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Head Offices & Warehouse : 176 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
cgfr x*ttrrrrff
sy
' *S#K
%
%
Gillette
Safety Razor
acknowledged by twenty-million
men the world over as the one
perfect safety razor. No stropping,
no honing. No waste of time.
Standard Set in Leather Case, 28/6.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO.. CANADA.
Wholesale Agents:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.. SYDNEY.
df
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
THE UNIVERSAL RAZOR.


_
Bonus Sale Savings
in Men’s Hats.
Until July 17th, Men’s Hats —in common
with all other men’s wear throughout the
House show a saving to cash buyers
of 2/- in every £ spent. Many lines
are already reduced, customers thereby
effecting a double saving.
English Soft Felts, double turn over edges
or cut edges ; brims 2§ to inches. Colors,
light grey, steel grey, fawn and green. 42/-
1 Tweed Caps, with plain full tops and straps
in front; assorted shades. Usual Price, 7/6
Sale Price 6/9
We Pay Carriage.
' FARMER’S: SYDNEY
Box 497, G.P.O.
THE DOOR
OF FASHION
will be opened to you
on Monday, 12th July,
at the
HOTEL CARLTON,
when “Shave,” Ladies’
Tailors and Dress-
makers, hold their
usual show in Sydney.
You are invited to
attend.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
3
(BtupyiES
Women who are
critical in the matter
of Gloves —who want
their hands to look slender,
to strike at first glance the
keynote of correct fashion,,
insist on Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves—not only because
they are so dainty and
durable, but because
they’re "double-tipped
for double wear,” with, -
a guarantee with 5,
every pair-
For real Economy,
insist on Vanity jsr
Fair Silk Gloves.
-or
V.F. IS
tif^K
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
A Hobart Mercury advt. of last week:—
WANTED.—Smart, experienced Waitresses, from
7.30, for four nights during H.R.11. the Prince of
Wales’s visit. Apply p. A. ALDERMAN, Butler,
Government House, Hobart.
One section of the wranglers jeered when
this cry for help went up. It was only raised
after all else had failed. Lady Allardyce
had suggested that a dozen returned Diggers
should help clear the ballroom for the
Prince. Then she begged the Red Cross to
lend her V.A.’s for Monday, Tuesday and
Thursday of Prince week. Neither proposi-
tion came to anything. The Red Cross, sore
and angry because the little butterfly lady
had netted its dates, said it wanted to pre-
sent the Aids, not push them into the Pres-
ence with a cake-basket in one hand and a
cup of tea in the other.
Hobart does miss “Bandbox” Browne.
D’Arcy Addison and Wentworth, the new
Governor’s secretary, are doing their best to
calm the troubled sea; but they cannot
throw out oil as the late “Bandbox” used
to.
Hobart’s plan to rope off the sheep and
the goats at the civic show will crash when
the awful night arrives, for the Royal visi-
tor simply refuses to see social ropes any-
where. At the Vic. State Government's Show
he pointed at the velvet cords and barked:
“Take that nonsense away !” He plainly
loathes the snob.
Gaud Mayor Aikman is to make a splash
on July 30 in a send-off to the G.-G. and
Dame Helen. About 2500 invitations to
an evening reception are going out, and Sas-
siety will be able to give an unexpected air-
ing to the clothes it bought to welcome the
Prince.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine and his dame are
touring the irrigation districts, across from
Mildura to Shepparton, and will wind up
with a look in at Dookie Agricultural Col-
lege. After taking stock, quite a number
of Irvine’s former political pals have come
to the conclusion that for all his iciness
he likes the embroidery. At the end of this
month he will have had a full year of viee-
regalism.
Melba is likely to come to Australia next
March. She says she must see to the fur-
nishing of the new rooms at Coombe Cot-
tage.
Tom Givens, who retains the ornate post of
President of the Senate, on the party vote, is
badly “set” by the gallery reporters and the
House officials, and they as much as any tried
hard to get a change. But the Tasmanian
Bakhap’s Orientally-trimmed oration on be-
half of Givens quite overcame the snappings
of Gardiner and the grizzlings of the Gallery.
Counsel for Gilruth and Judge Bevan be-
fore the Northern Territory Commission have
appealed to the Executive for a re-hearing.
Their argument is that the verdict of the
Commissioner in no way tallies with the evi-
dence submitted.
The Falkiners didn’t stand up and sing
when the promised visit of H.R.H. fell
through. They had, with much tribulation,
snared an extra dozen of the rare Mary Ann
and had spent hours in planning details. An
ordinary guest would have been dumped into
the best guest-room with an air of finality,
and been quite happy. But the Prince had to
have extra comforts and three detectives
sleeping on his mat. When the dream
crashed the Falkiners grabbed their bags
and came to town to sleep it off.
The City Newsboys are going to do well.
On the day of the appeal there was a big
afternoon party at the Oriental. Half-a-
guinea a head admittance, and a further 3s.
for tea and toast. Sassiety felt it got its
money’s worth. Walter Kirby worked like
a hero, organising the revel and melting into
great generosity in the matter of songs.
Miss Mcßae gave a dinner at the Oriental
the same night to help the boys. Every inch
of table space was occupied by diners, who
paid a guinea a mouth. A long avenue
through the winter garden and round the
dining-room was left clear for jazzers. Danc-
ing began between the soup and the fish
and was sandwiched between every pair of
courses. After dinner the tables vanished
and shuffling went on until the morning.
Gaud Mayor Aikman and Mrs. Stein are
going to Adelaide for the Prince revels.
Even if the Prince was crushed away from
the Women’s Hospital Ball, yet there
is balm in Gilead. The Hospital rakes in
about £6OOO over the event.
The dance-dates of two sporty Clubs are
clashing. The Aero Club is billed for Mel-
bourne Town Hall on the 23rd and the
Women’s Automobile Club has pounced on
the same date for its frivol in St. Ivilda
Town Hall.
Fifteen hundred people from suburbs and
country districts attended the reception held
at the Cathedral Hall on Sunday afternoon
in honor of the Mother-General of the
Sisters of Charity in Australia, who was
formerly Rectress of St. Vincent’s Hospi-
tal. Edward Goll’s fine pianoforte recital,
which included Beethoven’s Appassionata
sonata, was the feature. There were school
addresses of welcome, accompanied by cleri-
cal and lay speeches—most of them too long.
Particulars are to hand of a ferocious
attack made by bandits on a boat which
was bearing McWhae, of the Stock Exchange
and the Ministry, along the Yang-tse-Kiang
River. Two shots were fired from the shore
by unseen assailants, but nobody on the ves-
sel suffered any hurt. As the shooters were
never visible, it is not dead-certain that they
were bandits. Anyhow, happily, they didn’t
kill McWhae or his family party, who all
live to tell the tale.
The Old Xaverians’ re-union the other even-
ing was the best thing of the kind since the
send-off to the boys in khaki five and a half
years ago, and it was a triumph for Clare-
brough, the sec. A big percentage of those
who turned up wore Billjim badges, and Dr.
Frank Keane, M.C., president, led the revels.
Tom Burke, who recently presented Stud ley
Hall to the college as a prep, school, was
the guest of honor.
It looks as if the City Council will take
the simplest course, after all, for enlarging
the Town Hall. The lease of the Victoria
Coffee Palace next door is almost up, and
the Council, which has the freehold, pro-
poses to grant an extension for only a year
while it inquires how other cities inside and
outside Australia manage.
To say good-bye to Mrs. T. Marcus
Mclnerney. the wife of the Colonel, friends
gave a party on June 30 at Wycliffe House,
the old Yacht Club quarters on St. Kilda
Esplanade. Cabaret tables were spread
under awnings on the walled-in lawn, and
there was music, tea and chatter. Mrs.
Mclnerney is a golden-haired English beauty
whom the big soldier met and married in
S. Africa.
A huge crowd went out on Saturday to
the first day of the Grand National meeting
at windy Flemington. The lawn and the
stand were a swirl of furs, feathers and
blanket coats. The larger the check pattern
and the more vivid the colors, the more fash-
ionable the wearer. Mrs. Stein was all in
brown and promenaded with her husband.
Uncle Aikman had gone for a rest to the
country. Mrs. Winter-Irving wore grey.
Mrs. Fred Payne walked in blue, smothered
in clouds of furs. Mrs. Leigh Falkiner had
a 12-inch border of Russian sable to her
overcoat. Mrs. May was in warm brick-
red cloth. Mrs. McCulloch’s suit was a large
check with rabbito tails of fur to her cape.
Mrs. Clive Leonard sported the shortest
skirt of tan, high tan boots and a belted
and buckled coat.
The Australian Aero Club is spreading
wings for a Town Hall ball on July 23.
Captain Wittingham is organiser, and Cap-
tain Bobby Gove is also flying around.
Single tickets will cost a guinea: double,
30s.
The Speck’s “Shop” held up both hands
for Elsie Bradley, M.A., the other day, when
the Orient Co. offered to frank a lady
graduate to Paris in
order that she might
polish off. The little
lady is pictured
herewith, and is now
23. She is right up-
to-date in dead lan-
guages, and degreed
in the linguist class
before she hit her
21st birthday. Since
then she has been
imparting her know-
ledge to the Colle-
giate School students
and coaching Gover-
nor Newdegate’s
daughter. She sails
by the Osterley this
month for London.
Her first couple of
years in Paris will be spent toiling at
French at the Alliance Frangais College,
and then she hopes to go to the Paris Uni.
for two years.
From the Adelaide signal-station
On Friday evening his Ex. and Lady Weigall in-
vited the local notables and officers of the Australia
and Melbourne to a reception at Government House.
In the morning the League of Loyal Women opened
their depot for women’s work under vice-regal
patronage. The scheme is a good one,'and is being
carried on on the lines of the Trench Comforts Shop
that raised much money during the war. Her Ex.
made a lot of purchases, presented a number of
articles to be used as models, and took the oppor-
tunity 1 to say that she hated cliques.
Rene Maxwell gave two final concerts this week
before giving several country towns a treat. The
Weigall pair made Tuesday a vice-regal night, and
prolonged the interval by chatting to the singers.
Benno Moiseiwitsch opened to a crowded audience
on Thursday, and carried his audience so beyond
control that their appreciation became almost fren-
zied. Daisy Kennedy came in for an ovation when
she arrived in company with her decorative family.
White-haired J. A. Kennedy is leaving the Education
Department and is taking his wife and daughters to
London to make a home where Benno and Daisy
may rest between tours.
Back in Adelaide, George Matthews, who failed
nobly, if uncomfortably, in his attempted flight from
England to Australia.
Jack Finlayson, of the Eastern Extension Cable
Co., has engaged himself to Helen Black, one of
our prettiest girls. Both are keen on horses, so
their honeymoon is to be spent cantering.
An intrepid soldier is Major Cooke Russell. For
weeks he has been the lone representative of his
sex among an army of 3000 S. Aus. women war-
workers, whom he is training, at the Exhibition
Building, to form a guard of honor and march past
the Prince in the approved fashion.
For weeks and weeks there were shilling
tickets on sale in Collins-street for a lottery
in aid, so it was said, of the Fitz-
roy, branch of the R.S.S.I.L.A. First
and only prize, a trip to France, valued
at £350. The winning number was to be
published in the three Melbourne dailies on
June 28. A lot of people who bought a
shilling’s-worth missed the announcement,
judging by the inquiries that have been pour-
ing into newspaper offices in Melbourne.
What was the winning number, and who did
draw the one valuable ticket? And how
many of them were .sold?'
John S. Gawler, here pictured by Alice
Mills, has just been appointed lecturer in
architecture at Melbourne Uni. Failing a
Chair in the subject,
the lecturer’s billet
is the pinnacle of
the architect’s am-
bition, and Gawler
has captured the post
by profound know-
ledge of every branch
of his profession.
Though only 35, he
has found time to
visit three continents
and study ornament,
design and building
construction, and it
showed hi s ardor
when he spent days
in Canton copying a
design on a delirious
Chinese'door. After
a spell in America
in 1907, he came back an authority on rein-
forced-concrete, construction, and there are
now several towering structures in Mel-
bourne embodying liis ideas in this work.
When the war came he jumped into khaki,
and during his two and a half years in the
Engineers he won a silver medal for a bit
of design work for the Australian army. He
also cherishes a large bronze medal given
for a brilliant performance in the R.V.I.A.
Elocutionist Maud Grantham gives an
evening recital at the Austral Salon on July
12. Nellie Billings, at the piano, and bari-
tone John Danks will help.
Everybody feels very sorry for Walter
Kirby. Ilis brother died suddenly on
Saturday morning. A widow and several
children are left.
Fritz Hart is back from his travels. He
met Melba in Paris and joined in one very
jolly little dinner-party at her apartment—
dinner was served in the bedroom, for Melba
was in bed after a dental operation. She
had a bandage round her swollen cheek and
wore a Desdemona brand of dressing-gown.
Composer Cliff Boanas has launched out
into impresario work. His first presentation
will be pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith,
Who made such brilliant piano music for
Verbrugghen at the orchestral concerts.
Laurence Godfrey plays at the Assembly
Hall on July 21, 24 and 28.
Horace Stevens made a hard hit on Thurs-
day night in the Town Hall. He and his
voice are both large and imposing, and they
had a house to match —such a house, in fact,
that Napoleon Boffard came on and
announced that Stevens would appear • again
at a later date. The singer, who took his
forceps to the war, afterwards scored on im-
portant London concert platforms. All the
dentists of Melbourne and half the doctors
(they are a music-loving crew) were in the
audience. Between songs Nora Delaney
pounded the piano and showed her Carreno
arms.
By their new alliance the Taits and
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., will control a
chain of theatres, in Australia and Maori-
land, and will be in a position to beat down
any opposition that is not well gilded and
enterprising enough to build theatres in at
least three capitals. Owing to the high
price of materials and the labor position,
this possibility is rather remote: so the com-
bine will —for a while, anyhow—have things
all its own way.. The saving in other costs
ought to result in finer productions; but it
is quite as likely to work out otherwise.
According to the “understanding 1 ' George
Tallis and F. S. Tait will, it is understood,
control the young octopus in Melbourne,
while E. J. Tait, with a Williamson official
as chief lieutenant, will direct the tejitaclCs
in Sydney. Clyde Meynell may or may
not (probably will not) remain on the direc-
torate, but Hugh Ward moves off his throne
in Sydney, and wall probably go back to
America. Many actQrs will be sorry to lose
Ward, who, despite his aggressiveness, cer-
tainly knew his business. As for the Taits,
they will be saved the expense of two
theatres which they were on the point of
building in Sydney and Melbourne. The
compensating advantage to J.C.W., Ltd.,
will be the use of the Tait brains in manage-
ment. In the past both crowds have been
depressed by the spectacle of their respective
emissaries bidding against one another for
some American or English “hit” that both
were convinced would prove an Australian
success. The unnecessary cash spent in this
way has produced a partial gloom in the
balance-sheets, and it is largely to remove
this annoyance that the two firms have
decided to run together in certain specified
'directions, though still retaining their sepa-
rate identities.
Miss Fenner, sister of Mrs. Pursey
C'hirnside, gave a party at Menzies’ on
Friday in honor of Robert Courtneidge and
his company. Half the lounge was screened
off for the revel of tea and cake, and Kirby
kept the mu§ic going. Mrs. Fred Payne
wore a symphony in mole fur and satin.
Mrs. Agar Wynne had glittery Oriental
trimmings showing through her furs. Mrs.
Courtneidge was wrapped in blue and mar-
mot furs. Miss Fenner chose the warmth
of cherry color. “Billy” Candler, from the
South Sea Islands, was at the party; he
is on his way to England for a spell. There
was quite a good showing of men. Beau-
tiful actors of the co. were reinforced by
Tommy Cochrane, same other afterrioon-tea
veterans and a sprinkling of Flying Corps
dandies. The girls were surprised and
delighted. Marked down as a record: No-
body jazzed.
M. P. Adams, who has put in several years
attending to the' J. C. Williamson interests
at the Star and Strand Theatres, was given
a send-off at the Cafe Frangais by “The
Heelers,” the film men of Melbourne. “M.P.”
got off a bright little oration, after several
sincere references had been made to his
energy and personality. The occasion pro-
vided opportunity to wish Laurie Nunn, son
of mummer Jimmie, success in his un-
dertaking to provide Brighton with its
first real film-house. Adams is packing film
and things to hit Maoriland with a very
unusual outback Australian show. And
then he takes his wares to America.
Paul Bibron is putting some gaiety into
his monthly cabaret dances. On Friday
night the affair was masked and fancy-
dressed. The hall was curtained in holly-
hock pink, and straight tall hollyhocks grew
round the French orchestra. Bibron him-
self looked Bft. high in a tower hat of black-
and-red pompoms. His fierce beard rested
on an enormous ruff. The French Consul
was there in some sort of naval uniform, and
his wife showed slender knees under yards of
ribbon strung' from the waist. Mrs. Stein
personified a moonrise over the sea in long
wavering embroideries of moonlight-blue on
dusky chiffon. The charming little daugh-
ter of Robert Courtneidge had her hair flying
wild from under a snood of ribbon, and wore
a dove-grey chiffon dress. Miss Graham,
of the co., was puffed up in pale-blue brocade.
Ward, of “The Man from Toronto,” ap-
peared as a tired actor after a show. Late
arrivals spurred the party on_ till 2 a.m.
Some returned sailors were waiters, and
made a good job of it, dodging through heavy
seas of dancers with trays of provisions for
the cabaret tables. Only one accident hap-
pened ; then a whole trayful of food went
spinning, with a waiter full length on top.
Late Police Commissioner Steward’s
country home at Black Flat, between Oak-
leigh and “The Gully,” wasn’t long in
changing hands. The hundred acres of
highly-improved land now belong to a Wer-
ribee Chirnside, who will devote them to
the nursing and improvement of stud sheep
and a herd of Hereford cattle. An ornate
gate-keeper’s cottage is being put up, and
seine miles of new wire-netting will curb
the jumbuck’s tendency to stray.
The high cost of courting was illustrated
the other night. She, evidently a sales-lady,
but powdered a great deal more than the dry-
goods store would have liked, desired to see
the illusionist; and he, obviously a counting-
house youth, under 30 (salary probably
£3 12s. a week), had to take her. Items r
Bs. each for a front seat in the d.e.,
which contained only 20 others, including
deadheads; 2s. each for tell-you-your-future-
for-sure cards; and ss. for a box of choco-
lates ; total, 235. 3d., apart from fares to
and from the show. In the old days an
ardent youth, similarly situated, could have
liquidated the evening-out with 7s. by taking
her to the stalls and spending the other bob
on sweets. He would have won smiles, too,
and not have been thought mean.


0 10
SIMMS
SIMMS
High-Tension
Magnetos.
Every component part of Simms Magnetos is
the work of specialists.
Besides the three exhaustive tests each com-
pleted magneto undergoes, complete inspec-
tions are made at every stage of manufacture.
Only the best materials are used, after severe
and thorough tests.
These are some of the reasons why Simms
Magnetos have achieved such popularity.
Current is developed directly in the armature
without the introduction of external devices.
The result is a stronger spark and a saving of
current and time.
Write or call for full particulars and prices of
these self-contained high-tension Magnetos.
WGWATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence St Sydney-
m
f
v u
J.
v^ NC %
•f v v
m
•<7J>%
■< -< 3
V
Healthy
Bodies
Produce
Healthy Minds
Satisfactory school reports depend on whether a
child is properly nourished. It is rno£t important
that they have a good sustaining meal at midday.
Give them sandwiches spread with
“REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE
It contains all the valuable properties of fully
matured Cream Cheese. There is no more whole-
some or delicious sandwich spread, and it is an ex-
cellent aid to digestion.
Be sure to get “REX.”
Packed by FOGGITT, JONES & COMPANY, LIMITED
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Produtts
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon J 1237
STk
CONDENSE- 0
cot
V
ILK
cm
bra n °
NEST t> nr
MADE \N AUS
trM-' a
BP' $
H° 6^
Melbous^ 6
hey
Per tH
E.EAIDE
1
ft"
m
~=m
T*
r
N. 159
-v
h
insist' ufo&n
; .S'
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


Charles
NEIDSIECKS
Vintage 19! 1 <
QMflMffi
HE PLUS ULTRA
X
ST
PELUSSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Ford and Chevrolet
Owners.
A set of S.R.B. TAPER BEARINGS
fitted to the front wheels of your Oar
provide for easier running, and allow
for correct adjustment.
The Set is specially made for you, and
is worth your inspection.
Your local Garageman has particulars.'
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett §Barkell Limited
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
i
9
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mean* Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble
affords instant relief, and verv quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.
We would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictlv honest lines
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Guarantee Proves its Bonafides.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George Street, Sydney
/ZLs
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
Flora Sandes, a slim figure in her green-
grey uniform, opened her Serbian lectures
m the King’s Hall on Saturday. She has
an incisive way of jerking out her phrases—
might still be a sergeant training an awk-
ward squad That she is a real heroine
there is no shadow of doubt whatever She
speaks of having spent 30 days in action
without so much as taking off her boots:
or nursing through a typhus epidemic when
men and women dropped like flies; of turn-
ing (with a Nurse Simmonds) her hand
to surgery, and of performing operations on
the wounded. Some of them" recovered, too:
t m . c ,, this she speaks of as an example of
faith-healing. She hasn’t the words to
speak highly enough of the Serb. “I have
never known a Serb cry because of suffer-
mg, but I have often known him to cry for
his mother.” J
Only once did Flora find it an advantage
to stress her sex. It was during the retreat,
ihe remnants of that gallant army, foodless
and in rags, reached Corfu. Of money they
had not a sou. They were camped on the
mllS’ and down in the town were the British
and French headquarters. Corporal Flora
was sent out by her C.O. to obtain supplies
tor the troops. First .she went to the Brit-
lsh, and they sent her away empty-handed,
then she tried the French, who looked on
a corporal without a written command
rrom his superior as a dubious person. She
had promised the men to bring back sup-
plies, and she was determined to do it. Back
to British headquarters she went, there
again made her request, and there again was
refused. Fishing out a hankie, she started
to weep, and then prepared to faint. At
that there was a hurrying of many feet.
A carriage was obtained for the lady. Into
it were bundled bags of loaves and fishes,
and even money did she take back, for she
managed to raise a loan of one hundred
francs on the strength of those pearly tears.
Ihe lectures go on all the week.
If Wales boasted crowned heads instead
of princes, then Amy Evans would be its
queen. She is of the upstanding, handsome
type, with big eyes set well apart, a soft
skin that speaks of a misty land, a piled
mass of red-gold hair and a sovereign voice.
Her frocking is on severely handsome lines,
and Sydney women are still talking of the
gown she wore for her first introduction—
of soft satin so close to the old-fashioned
maroon that only the rich sound of that
word can describe the color of it. Other
dresses from which her good looks arose
in equal splendor were a black velvet and
a clinging charmeuse that glowed like a
flame-flower. It’s a far cry from the Amy
of to-day to the small girl of 13 with the
mane of golden hair and the short white
frock who sang her preliminary test for Ben
Davies at the Welsh National Eisteddfod
on a broiling summer day in a little room
apart from the main pavilions. Through
the open window she could see the fields
below, where the big, surging, song-loving
crowd surged to and from the different con-
tests, but she had no thought for anybody
but the man at the piano. It was not tiil
a gieat shout from below greeted the final
notes that she was conscious that the thou-
sands on the fields had stopped to listen
to her singing. Later on she carried off the
r^’ St P nzes > Den Davies said she possessed
the finest voice in all Wales, and a verv
wealthy Mr. Forrest coming forward, nom-
inated himself fairy-godfather to the little
girl and put up all the stakes for the com-
plete, education of the singing-bird. If that
wasn t Amy’s lucky day, which, was? And
still they tell you that 13 is an unlucky
number.
One day Sydney’s great girl-artist will
arise and call the Society of Women Painters
blessed. Their new School of Fine and
Applied Arts is in the very capable and
sympathetic hands of Mrs. Hedley Parsons
Eirene Mort and Florence Fuller, and the
other day the grey club-room made itself
beautiful with golden wattle and brown jars
and a baby exhibition of the work of the
three teaching ladies. Julian Ashton was
there, and spoke mostly of the truth of
things, and Mr. Sulman dropped pearls of
wisdom, while the tea-leaf roysterers re-
newed old friendships with the loan
exhibition of Mrs. Parsons’s work. “Castle
Hill and Blossom turned up again with
smiling eyes; Miss Fuller’s portrait of Mrs.
a /- s ?. n ' s Phased everybody; and among this
artists show was the portrait of a young
girl whose eyes hold all the wild shyness of
a hare.
The Prince told several girls that he would
like to give a dance in Sydney when he
came back. Preferably on the Renown.
Out of that a rumor has grown that he will
give one for certain. His difficulty arises
from the fact that he has been entertained
not by scores or even hundreds, but by
thousands. If the Prince could anyhow
mitigate the astonishing popularity he has
won in Sydney, it would be by giving an
entertainment from which, in the nature of
things, about three-fourths of those eligible
for a card would have to be excluded.
A note from one of her old friends:—
The newspaper canard that Lady Dudley worked
in a shop before her marriage is in full swing. She
knew about this story when she was in Australia,
and though she laughed at it she took care to add
that she would not be at all ashamed of the experience
if shed had it. When here her courtesy towards
shop-assistants made her a favorite in many stores.
And she invariably took away parcels that she could
carry easily, instead of doing as Toorak and Darling
Point do —have them sent. In Ireland, where she
met her death, I think she felt she was more sin-
cerely loved than anywhere else. She travelled by
road over the entire country as a preliminary to the
establishment of the district-nursing scheme which
has had such splendid results. No doubt that
affection influenced her husband, who went to Ire-
land as a Tory Lord-Lieutenant, . and presently
adopted the Irish Nationalist viewpoint. His re-
marks at a St. Patrick’s Day celebration soon after
his arrival in Australia were never forgiven him
by the anti-Irish section which is thick around
Government House. No one could be in their
society for any time, even during the years of
their estrangement, without recognising Lord Dud-
ley’s deep admiration, respect and love for his
devoted wife; and on the other side you could see
that, no matter what the flirtations of her handsome,
wayward spouse, she was the one woman who domi-
nated his life.
There was a touch, of frost in the air on
the night of St. Paul’s College dance) so
every one of the rooms belonging to 52
students glowed with a real coal fire. Com-
mon-room and library and dressing-rooms
carried the same alluring decorations; so
that the pavilion floorage, where the dance
went on, was generally bereft of at least a
hundred who had jazzed the last jazz. It
was a lovely party, cosy and intimate, and
mostly young. Here and there were re-
minders of those who might never come back
rom Irance or Gallipoli to take part in
the College reunions or its sports. But
above all one sensed the necessity for the
extensions to the college. At the moment
it is like a growing schoolboy trying to
squeeze into the suit that was long since
too small.
The Uni students who hang their hats
up at St. John s had their party last week,
and as had been so noticeable at St. Paul’s
College dance, there was a simplicity and
tilendliness in the atmosphere entirely re-
moved from the let-us-be-joyful-at-any-cost
merrymaking of the royal festivities. St.
John s rector Father O’Reilly, extended the
waim hand of welcome to everyone, and the
decorations were only outdone in beauty bv
&D'ls. Hr. R. E. Weaver and T. P.
McMahon were the secretaries; and Mrs’
Regan, Mrs. Burfitt and Mrs. Veecfi won
prizes for popularity as chaperones.
Lute Drummond frolics among colloquial
German, French and Italian, as a bee amidst
clovel So far as Lute knows, she is the
only Sydney girl, in addition to Miss Waller
who has translated the libretti of Italian
operas into up-to-
date English. Such
a success did she
make of her ven-
ture with the three
Puccini operas that
Ricordis, the music-
publishers of Lon-
don, commissioned
her to make a trans-
lation for their new
Covent Garden pro-
grammes. 'l'hese
carry not only the
words of the lyrics,
but the music motifs
alongside. Just be-
fore the Sydney girl
left London she
supplied these same
publishers with a
translation of the tuneful “II Re de Chez
Maxin,” by Mario Costa, and once more sup-
plied the motifs to the lyrics. She com-
pleted this big job in seven weeks. Now
where is that verandah-post that Austra-
lians must have to lean against?
I lags of the Allies, pale-blue and white
streamers, with the white school flag em-
blazoned with blue dominating all, lit up the
Paddington Town Hall, .somewhat neglected
these days, for the King’s School Old Boys’
dance. Special trains and trams had been
arranged for, so youth, even though it lived
up the river, shook out the frills and panniers
of first-season’s frocks and made for the sign
°f the Dancing Slipper under the escort
of brother or brother’s pal; and secretaries
Friend and Martin congratulated each other
while they turned the roomful of dancing
feet into £s. d. for the Sports Club. Head-
master Baker was there, with Mrs. Baker,
who managed to wedge in a touch of the
Orient into her black frocking. There was
bridge for the quickly-disappearing chaperone,
and a wonderful band for the dancers.
The flapper sons and daughters of the
really Old Boys and the young Old Boys
themselves came in force, in spite of the
heavy swirls of rain, to the ball in aid of
►Sydney Grammar's War Memorial to its
almost-2000 fallen. The young things looked
very fluffy and smart in a Town Hall mel-
lowed with golden light. Two little ladies
emulated Constance Talmadge and Theda
Bara, one wearing a crownless pink hat,
the other a tight-fitting, Dutch-eared, gold-
gauze head-dress. Other two girls had
swathed and slit skirts quite in the before-
the-war style. President Reggie Black and
headmaster Sloman attended vice-regalty,
who arrived somewhat belated, the Dame
wearing ivory brocade. Mrs. Keith Wil-
liams wore rose-hued georgette, and Mrs.
Oscar Paul surged in a wave of white
shoulders over black brocade and net. The
Maitland lady, who was squired by son
Geoff, wore soft black velvet; Lena Lam-
rock wrapped herself in flame-colored clingi-
ness that further warmed itself with tufts
r4 r * Maisie and Janet Fell were in the
Maitland party; Una Barton wore blue and
gold shot taffeta. The Frenchiest dress in
the room adorned Nell Larkin. It was
in black taffeta, the skirt bunched into loops
at one side, with its neck cut away in the
round, -early-Victorian manner. It was a
sophisticated little dress, and carried itself
with the ail-of a woman of the world. And
Mrs. Stuart McPhail was one of the other
smartly-dressed.
The matinee at the Tivoli in aid of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital drew Lady
Helen out of the seclusion into which the
I rincely racketings threw her. Her Ex.
and tall Aide Kilby, who looked after the
sweets and the bouquet of wattle that a flut-
teimg committee thrust upon her, were first
worded by Judge Backhouse; and the Mcln-
tosh and Maitland ladies basked in the vice-
regal aura most of the afternoon. Lee
was *; he . bright s P°t on a programme
that dragged interminably. Iler frocking
, eartU y s^n °f- Heaven-born genius,
l robably before Lee came down she was a
cherub-assistant to the wardrobe-mistress of
the Celestial Comics. The committee did
very well; but what matter?—a, committee
hat jingles £M)00 in the bag and a promise
of another £2OOO from the Minister of Baby-
hood can afford to rest content with the cash
and let the credit go.
The Freddie Shipmans left India in a
hurry m response to cables telling Freddie
ot his mother’s sickness; and long before
Freddie and hiS small wife could get to
England the end had come. The energetic
pair are now in London, after visiting
f r s nce aud Belgium ; and Freddie has organ-
ised a scheme for supplying unlimited film
to the native of India. His company is still
«tr°ng, with Mary Laing Meason and
Miss Macfarlane to guide it. These Svd-
ney girls are doing the Indian hill-stations
with the company; then Burmah, the Malay
States, Java, China and Japan, where the
Shipmans plan to rejoin them in September,
after a rush-visit to the U.S.A.
John McCormack will soon be back in
Sydney, this time bringing Mrs. John and
the youngest ot the 10 nieces and nephews
he adopted after the Leinster was torpedoed
and went down with his brother and sister-
in-law on board.
Velvet-eyed Mrs. Pelloe has gone back
to her beloved West, after seeing the Prince
which she enjoyed, and the inside of a hos-
pital, which pleased her not at all. However
the operation on her throat proved quite
successful, and she now hopes to get on
speedily with her book of wild-flower studies.
fr;S Se^r GanSe i5 ome f/° S y dne y as an old
Wa ™ here years a B° with Amy
Sherwin, the Tasmanian Nightingale.” who
is now teaching in London and living at
Hampstead. Amy’s health broke down on that
tour, and to keep the ship going full-steam
the young man was forced into doing things
that otherwise he would not have dared
attempt. This was all to the good when
he dropped in on London again with very
slim pockets and one good ietter of intro-
f«a tlo n' letter was to Mrs. Ronalds,
and all artistic London knew Mrs. Ronalds’s
drawing-rooms. To be asked to sing or
play (without fee) at her house gave you a
standing that was better than a Continen-
tal leputation. Around her there were
always buyers for the performers’ wares •
and after the rather shy young man from
Australia sang his second song on that
memorable afternoon he booked over £l5O
in engagements. A flood followed: in addi-
twn he took pupils (“Never despise teach-
ing, is Fraser’s advice), studied hard, and
so returns to us a prosperous artist
whose ties and collars are as impeccable as
they were 14 years ago when The Bulle-
tin pmned its approval upon them.
The end of the month saw the Federal
iaw-office in Sydney saying good-bye to its
chief McHutchison, and loading him and
his wife with gifts and gracious words.
After no matter how many years in the ser-
vice of the Commonwealth, the solid lawyer
joins the Sly and Russell firm.
Florence Fuller, Sydney’s most-travelled
pain ting-woman, is not long back from her
bungalow in the Theosophist Compound,
where Annie Besant queens it in her all-
white robes. India, its troubles and its
aspirations, that
sornething in its
soul which makes it
the ruby among the
nations, still enthral
her. Miss Fuller
(her picture goes
with this) is sister
in blood as well as
art to Mrs. E. W.
Parsons, and grew
up in Melbourne. As
a child she lived in
South Africa, and
remembers con-
stantly meeting
Olive Schreiner at
the house of her
uncle, Sir John
Fuller. Olive in
those days was a
small, sparkling brunette, hiding her long,
long thoughts behind a veil of quick laughter
and ready wit. Miss Fuller studied paints
in Paris, and knows Europe as well as she
knows her art.
Mrs. Percy Hunter arranged a farewell
tea-drinking at the Australia to Mrs. Peters,
whose news-editor husband is going down
to Melbourne to look after the interests of
London Times from that outer darkness.
Nearly every woman present carried the
ghost of an inkstain under her immaculate
gloving. Mrs. Peters presented the latest
tiring in animated silhouettes in a grey
gabardine costume, tipped off with a black
and silver toque. Mrs. Percy Hunter con-
trasted a yellow scarf against the brown
of her costume, and brought a tall, fair
Laverstock niece from Jervis Bay.'
AV. O. Gilchrist, who left just under half
a million sterling (several thousands of it
to Sydney people), was a cousin of Ernest
and. Colonel Oswald Watt. His round,
rubicund face and immense figure were well
known in Sydney a dozen years ago or more;
but latterly he had lived in England. He
was a crack game-shot until his health gave
way.
Portia Geach drops a postcard from the
Mark Sheldon apartment, 17 storeys above
Fifth Avenue. She says she hopes to get
a studio somewhere Greenwich Village way;
meantime she is busy listening to the answer-
ing coo-ees of other Aussies in the top-heavy
city. She has seen the Laurie Kennedys.
the kindly machinations of
John McCormack, have been whisked off to
London, and has foregathered with Bendigo
girl Lovie Mueller, whose sculptor husband
has just started on a big commission for
Brooklyn. As for Mark Sheldon himself,
she whispers that he’s getting quite a repu-
tation as an after-dinner speaker in spite
of prohibition.
From a Brisbane balcony
The Alice Sovereign Concert Co. scored good houses.
Tlie finest artists in the combine are the pianist
Arthur Loesser and violinist Elias Breeskin. Bree-
skin is honeymooning, and his bride is a most attrac-
tive lady. The concerteers are to visit some Banana-
land towns before going on to Sydney.
ihe old Theatre Royal had never been so crowded
before as it was for the Uni. Dramatic Society’s
performance of “The Schoolmistress.” Chief Justice
Pope Cooper and party had one box, and Mr. and
Mrs. Bousfield the other. Charlie Dearden was the
star, and Madalen Hulbert, Len McKeon and Mar-
garet Robertson (the pretty daughter of Dr. W. N.
Robertson) all twinkled nicely.
The Princeling has been booked to inspect all
our military hospitals in one afternoon, beginning at.
4.30 p.m. and ending Heaven knows when. Shafs-
ton House, Rosemount and Enoggera are all to be
“done” in about an hour and a half, whereas if he
is to see all the Digger inmates, that time would be
none too much for Enoggera alone. Perhaps he
will jib, as he did at Caulfield.
The warden of St. John’s College, Rev. W. H.
Stevenson, and his popular wife, were “at home” at
the South Brisbane City Hall the other Wednesday
night. The guests found a perfect dancing floor,
with music and supper to match.
Eric Hockings and Marian Nicol Robinson were
married the other night in the Nicol Robinson draw-
ing-rpom. The bride’s pretty sister looked after
the leading lady’s glove, and the ’groom’s brother
Roy was next-best man. The brothers wore uniform.
Chaplain Merrington tied the knot.
Another returned soldier recently wedded was
Capt. Jack Meehan, M.C., who slipped the gold
band on the finger of Marjorie Cuppaidge, youngest
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Cuppaidge, of Gympie.
The wives of Ministers gave a tea-party at Par-
liament house to Mrs. T. J. Ryan, who has gone to
Sydney. A bouquet of roses and a marble clock were
handed over by Mrs. Bill Gillies.
Died recently, Mrs. Adelaide Beaujolais Stuart
O’Mahony, widow of Capt. T. L. O’Mahony, and one
of the finest of our women pioneers. She came to
Bananaland in 1863 and with her husband settled on
the Logan River. Her father was the Hon. Andrew
Coutts Cochrane, who commanded the 3rd Guards
at Waterloo, and Lord Lamington was her cousin.
Her son Frank was an A.I.F. officer.


i r»
!■»
ESTB
1853
Hardy Brothers Ltd
JEWELLERS.
Gem Rings
Of Highest Quality.
Ruby and Diamond
Cluster,
£75.
Single-stone
Diamond,
£5OO.
Fine-quality Three-
Stone Diamond,
£2OO.
Whole Pearl and
Diamond Cluster,
£l4O.
Pearl and Dia-
mond, two-stone,
£lOO.
Black Opal and
Diamond Cluster,
£5O.
=SS@S®»
Diamond and
Emerald lialf-
hoop,
£65.
The Rings illustrated are merely representative of
a most comprehensive selection. Only the finest-
quality Gems, are used, and the workmanship is
of the highest standard.
The Company send selections on
approval, if desired, and allow a dis-
count of 5 per cent, on all cash purchases.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
fie f-
§loooooooo
□OO
'iK
WY*M
#/ub
M
c»
PERPETUATE BY PICTURES
Not since the Ancients graved on stone, have pic-
tures been so important as they are today. It is
not enough that we read of great events but we
must see them pictured out.
So with the unusual and interesting things in your
own life—Preserve them with an
gdf
ANSCOV-P 1*0.2
(The Modern Pocket Diary)
Easy to operate; quick in action; simple
in all its adjustments. So small it fits in
your pocket. Takes pictures 2 I A x 3 x k in.
Come in and see it.
PRICES
£8 0 0
£9 15 0
No. 2, Modico Anastigmat Lens, F/7.5 . .
„ Ansco Anastigmat Lens, F/6.3
We also carry a full stock of Kodaks at standard prices, as
well as many other leading cameras which are not obtainable
elsewhere.
UP
The House for GOOD Cameras,
386 George Street, Sydney.
Also at
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
XSv'vXXvX'yv':'
vJx'yAJ
>>AV/'
©
O t
#lii
:,'. ;fc.v;r
-SK
cruris* OYC
il
:-'.'>xs
■V'V.
wmwm
wm-M&m
-1 i
S:
lili
nil
&&8S
H
<Vx-\
1
&53
w
H^ll
«%>-
&>>
$2
iP
I
iiM
111
&
x:s
isSSifW'K
■x<'X: <»-
'/W
KvMw".'. v v
-vv/’. >>>. v. W. <%y.'.'
>. * '. '.'v'v'v'. ' v' X . -V •
SERGES
FOX Serges are made in numerous Weights and
Weaves, but all Qualities produced by
FOX BROS. LTD.,
Wellington, Somerset, England,
carry the “Fox” Trade-mark on Every Yard.
THIS IS YOUR SAFEGUARD
ALWAYS INSIST UPON SEEING IT.


I
GET
OUT
OF THATCOLUMN
Don’t be a disappointed cor-
respondent any longer. Get
your work accepted and paid
for.
LEARN TO DRAW
BY POST.
We have produced hundreds of suc-
cessful students, —many of whom have
contributed to The Bulletin. Send
3d. in stamps for our booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen.” It tells
you all about the original “Weston
Method” as taught by one of Aus-
tralia’s most successful Black-and-
White Artists.
The Harry J. Weston
Postal School of Drawing
216 Waltham Building's,
24 Bond Street, SYDNEY
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,307,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. ... .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
We Desire
to Buy
gd
PLATINUM, at £l2 per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd, ” £*•
V.
V
ABBEY
SHOES
give ease from the first to the last day’s
wear. They are correctly designed and
carefully modelled to give comfort to
every part of the foot, and render long
and satisfactory service.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal. in a smart “made-to-order” style.
PRICE . . 67/6
In Tan Willow Calf . . 60/-
Stocked in half-sizes, and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The EASTING SIDE-CAR WIND SCREEN
Just the Accessory You Want for WET WEATHER, WIND and DUST.
ADJUSTABLE INTO NINE DIFFERENT POSITIONS.
THE ONLY COMBINED HOOD AND SCREEN ON THE MARKET.
-
1
SYDNEY AGENTS:.
Bennett & Burke) 1.
["Bennett & Wood.
Williams Bros.
Biden & Roberts.
& Oinedie.
.d for Illustrated Catalogue giving
fujl®ai'ticulai’s and Fitting instructions,
REoSj
SOLE MANUFACTURING AGENT,
PRICE, ONLY £5/5/-
COMPLETE WITH FITTING
AND APRON.
J. J. WILKINS,
Crystal Palace Buildings,
586 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WTQ
fil|s
Cleans jUI
British
Ask for OHQtq Ink
iasK.
Y& pm
B ®Bt for all Pens
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
W
THE SION OF
A GOOD SHINE
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before—
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you. get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this b,y using Bostock’s Dressings,
which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a brilliant
polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes,
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Boom 5, 2nd Floor, 287 Collins St., Melbourne
Situation Wanted.
f'' OMPETENT and Energetic Man with eight years’
experience own Diace, free on about Ist Sep-
tember, wishes to take position as Overseer on
Wheat-growing Concern or Mixed Farm. Thoroughly
Conversant with Scientific and Up-to-Date Farming
Methods. Expert knowledge of all classes of farm
machinery and motors ; good mechanic. Good general
knowledge of sheep and cattle. Kindly reply to
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney.
GEELONG R. S. & S.
Woollen % Worsted Co-operative Manufacturing Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
To be Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
Brigadier-General Smith, 0.M.G., D. 5.0., of Geelong, Wool Scourer.
Chaplain the Rev. Charles Neville, of Geelong, Clergyman.
Alfred John Freeman, of Geelong, Inspector.
Alfred Norman Belcher, of Geelong, Estate Agent.
Jonas Fred Swithenbank, of Geelong, Instructor.
Edward John Fairnie, of Geelong, Traveller.
Capital: £lOO,OOO, Divided into 5000 Shares of £2O each.
The Minimum Subscription upon which the Directors may Proceed to Allotment
is 1250 shares of £2O each Fully Paid Up.
The requirements under Section 88 of the Companies Act 1915 have not been
fully complied with in this abridged advertisement, but copies of the full prospectus
and forms for application for shares may be obtained at the Olxice of the Company,
Little Malop Street, Geelong.
Application for Shares will proceed only on one of the forms of application re-
ferred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the prospectus.
No person eligible to become a member unless entitled to receive the War Gratuity.
No person to hold more than 5 Shares at any one time.
A splendid opportunity to invest your War Gratuity.
Those desirous of becoming Shareholders and have received their Gratuity Bond,
can, by forwarding same under Registered Post, with application for Shares, have it so
arranged that the Bond will be forwarded to the Treasury, the necessary deduction made
and a new Bond issued to them. If you have not yet made application for your
Gratuity, send order on District Finance Officer attached to your claim, and forward
with colored form to the Acting Secretary, Mr. E. J. Fairnie, Geelong.
Apply at once to
Market Square, Geelong. ACTING SECRETARY,
N.B. —Forms of application and prospectus, and all other can be
obtained from the special representative, Queen’s Walk, Swanston Street Entrance,
Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
hame and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
~ Kew: But the position in Sydney, where
the electric light and power are supplied and con-
trolled by the Municipal Council, is worse than it
is in Melbourne, where the gas supply is in the
hands of the private co. The community doesn’t
get good service by merely shooing off private enter-
prise. .. .A.G.: Sympathise with you; but we’re
afraid publication would do you a lot more harm
than good. .. . D.L.C.: 1 nverell suggests that Kings-
land be the name of the new Northern (N.S.W.)
State, does it? AVhy not Stodgeland? P.S.:
“Blogg” is on the border-line Riv: “Boozer” is
well enough done, but we’ve met him before. .. .
Hague S.: Sorry, forestalled; there’s an article on
that subject awaiting print N.C.J.: Your plea
is that Australia shouldn’t take the ordinary, elemen-
tary precaution of keeping a register of aliens,
because they were specially invited here. You say
this five times. Who invited them? Nine times out
of ten, at any rate, the aliens who were here
already! And even suppose they were invited, the
recent behavior of other aliens has been such that
they can’t reasonably object to a tally being kept.
That will protect the well-dispositioned just as it
may be awkward for the other sort. Also, you say
they are specially valuable. How? And that they
are specially law-abiding. Yet they furnish for their
numbers an absurdly large proportion of criminals.
The sitnple fact is that, because of this country’s
easy-going ways, a certain kind of alien has come
to think he is a superior being and does the native-
born a favor by livifig here. It is time things were
explained to him... . A.F.C.: Don’t send us stamped
and addressed envelopes and expect letters. We’d
like to write them, but haven’t the time. Nothing
worth while in last batch O.B.; Hooray! Let
it go
. ...J'.H.B.: That writer knows just as much about
hying as you d 0.,. .G.W.F.: Take it away. There
are more alleged poems about the Prince of Wales
than he could read in three months. From most
of them he would flee as he did from other exhibi-
tions of grovelling snobbery. .. .1.G.G.: Ditchwater
is a merry and sparkling liquid compared with it.
..W.H.M.: Here’s enough of it to go on with: —
My name it is Bill McLennon
They take me for a water-melon;
But when they take me for a fool
I nearly always scoop the pool.
Gor blime me, you should see the faces
They’re worse than woolly jumbueks,
Crushing and pushing through the races
Scrambling, and jostling to their places
. ...T.W.S.: “Philatelist” works up to a very small
point.... Babette: Its chief fault is that it piles
up commonplaces to say something of no consequence.
. ...P.8.P.: “The Beacon Lights” has a few pleas-
ing lines, but it should have a stronger finish....
M.E.G.: The verses won’t do....Burrundie: Terrible.
.., .A.O’D.: The abos. were frightened of a pup be-
cause they thought it a ghost! Only that, told in
the baldest way.... Plot: Let off with a caution.,..
Em jay: Empty and dull. .. .G.L.S.: Multiply the
last answer by four B.H. (St. Hilda): “Patent
Pills” is as, stupid as an earthworm in gaiters....
Fernleaf: “First Advance” not up....Thos. W. W.:
There’s something wrong with the ear that rhymes
“before” with “saw”.... Mirza: You mixed the
“autograph” idea with the monogram. “E.P.” can’t
very well be a signature. ... Gwendolyn A.: Poor.
....Arthur R.: “As Two Peas” is too slight....
D.M.R.: “Faithful Outsider” won’t d0....E.J.
(Murwillumbah) : “Alone” misses by a shaving....
A.H.P.: Ask your bookseller. “Not Understood” is
by Tom Bracken ; don’t know who wrote the other.
P.M. (Largs) : Pretty enough, but it says the
old things in an irregular variation of the old way.
. ...G.8.M.: Horrible yarn doesn’t score.... The
Exile: “A Question of Principle” is shocking verse.
What kind of lopped, corrugated or contorted ear
have you got to rhyme “honor” with “hour”?....
Jimmy Soolimup: “Fourth Rumpus” doesn’t stir
us....Jestyn Mai: Nothing in it... .S.H.R.: “Mary”
is magazine stuff, with • neither truth nor sincere
feeling... .Myall: Far too crude in thought and ex-
pression. .. .Deltaro: Not nearly.. .The Mad H.: You
spoil the barrel-organ verse with the meaningless
finish. Try it again... .C.S.S.: They haven’t the
feeling... .A.C. (Cobar line): The matter is as
poor as the drawing, and that’s as bad as Mannix’s
chance of being next president of the Methodist Con-
ference.... Bible Puncher: N0...P.8.P.: Not enough
work put into it.. . . Speakspoke: Wooden. . . .R.D.F.:
“Mityan” is clumsy... .a’Court: The young man is
well enough advanced in his studies to know this,
at any rate —that the best friends of the monarchy
are those who don’t encourage the monarchy to
destroy itself... .J.S.S.: “Acid Test” fails.. .J.V.S.:
Very crude.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.C.McI.: So far your line is very wiry. Plod on.
. ...R.C.: Going, for a trick effect you have con-
structed a repellent woman. . . .D.M.: There are years
of hard study before y0u....0.F.: Don’t want your
boiled dwarfs. .. .Kirk : It fell and broke its neck. ...
A.S.P.: A nervous line and the artist isn’t quite
sure yet where he is going. Battle a10ng....
H.F.H.C.: Opportunity has to be seized by the tail
before it gets into its stride, otherwise the topical
artist is left fields behind. The drawing is very bad.
..E.D.8.: Limp... .M.R.: If you have a sense of
humor it doesn’t twinkle in ycur drawings. . . .F.A.8.:
Flat and wooden. In a few years’ time you’ll be
able to suggest roundness and wrinkles... .A.C.McD.:
That jest’s grey beard reaches to its feet.... F,S.:
Sent your sober drunks away in a cab. .. . J.H.W.:
Encouraging stuff. See if you can put a bit more
quality into your drawings.... Norman W.: Invent
better vamps next time. .. .11.C.F.: Yes, they’re
quite original. And d —d bad... .Hatty : Dump
your nightmares somewhere eke. T.M.: Flat and
dreary, lifeless, scratchy, superfluous!... .R.P.:
Gentle lady, it won’t do. . . .S.H.: Yes, it tries to be
frightfully wicked, hut is as harmless as a hymn.
. ... A.F.: Piece of valuable paper ruined.
THE BEAUTIFUL RAIN.
As I am lying in iny cosy bed
1 hear that glorious, lovely rain;
Goes pitter, patter o’er my head ;
Gladdens one’s heart from fear and pain.
See! see how quickly Nature provides
A few days that beautiful tinge!
Through the country far and wide,
Every little drop doth cling.
Everything goes with a cheerful swing,
All fear of drought is soon forgot;
To think what the harvest will bring,
To kqep one out of that ugly knot.
Oh, see the little birds they join with us,
They splash about and bask;
They chirp, they sing, and make a fuss,
So glad that rain came at last.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
l'livnte Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd,,
Tel.—City 4246,
AOA*7
4ilo!
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —-San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 21,
VENTURA.
10,0u0 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY,
Telephone: City 2282.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £ 1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ■ .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. IV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
1IKAI) OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queens hind.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amertoa, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE-J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places Throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,983
Preference Shares.. .. .. 760,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping:, etc.
Canad i&n-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 9.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, August 19.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Fakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all he visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grnnd Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, August 10.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney August 5.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
y.-i
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
RUNIC
MEDIC
SUEVIC
PERSIC
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
XHEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2O/13/-
to £25/18/- to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills. Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £4,765,700
3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar. K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Bobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Bussell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to.. and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
fg
sank of 3u6traKa
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at ail Branches, and Saving's Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
35% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest oh Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist. 1920 Governor
Shipping.
mmm
Osaka Shoscn Kaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhiiiping at Japan.
KUNAJIRI MARU, sailing middle
July.
MITSUKI MARU, end of July.
MADRAS MARU, early August.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Manaping Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHjP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
Huddart Parker Lisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOB JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
I'itzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS ECU:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. di O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne,' Fremantle).
Messa.geries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne. Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Nuroo’s Lufra Hotel,
Eaglehawk Neck, Tasmania.
GOD’S OWN PARADISE.
'■pOUKISTS should not miss spending a week at
this Seaside Resort. Excellent table, fish, poultry,
iruit and cream. Good surfing and fishing.
Conveyance leaves daily for Port Arthur. Steamer
irom Brooke Street pier. Motors from Bellerive.
C. NUROO, Proprietor.
-'O business communication with Government
Tourist Bureau.
Missing Friends.
TFENRY INGRAM and EDITH SWIFT (who both
x went to Australia) should communicate with
Baddeleys, 77 Leadenhall Street, London, England,
Solicitors, and -they will hear of something to their
benefit.
Position Vacant.
WANTED,
Thoroughly Competent
General Manager
for large. Pastoral Business embracing a
number of Stations in Queensland.
Must possess all-round qualifications in
legard to Cattle s Stations, Improvements,
Accountants, etc.
State age, salary and forward testimonials
not later than 17th July to
“PASTORAL,”
Box 85 G.P.0., Brisbane.
Amusements.
Harry Kickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1"* IVO I. I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents MISS LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
"|"IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE AND HIS LONDON
COMEDY CO. in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Prices as usual.
LI E R M A .1 K ,S T V ' S, $11) N K V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
By the J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
0 14 1 Tl 5 ,£ 1 ° x Tl* it A T U IS, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
By lAN HAY.
Interpreted by J. C. WILLIAMSON’S SPECIALLY-
ORGANISED COMEDY COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J. D. O’HARA and his Brilliant Company in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
One of the smartest plays Sydney has had for a
long while.
' Plans at Paling’s.
DALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
■ Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT have pleasure in presenting
MISS MARIE ILKA
in the great drama of Love and Beauty,
TIGER ROSE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
TOWN hall, sy d n ey.
■ Direction CHAPPELL.
ENGLAND’S LEADING VOCALISTST
AMY EVANS, Soprano.
FRASER GANGE, Basso-cantante.
r SYDNEY CONCERTS:
™™ SDA Y> JULY 8; SATURDAY, JULY 10:
TUESDAY, JULY 13; THURSDAY, JULY 15; and
SATURDAY, JULY 17.
Plan at Paling’s.
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present a revelation in
revues,
THE PASSING SHOW T OF 1920.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
Amusements.
’III?AT It l£ it oVA L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Latest
London Success.
YES, UNCLE.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usuaL
Lf ING'S THEATRE. MEI.ISOU it N E.
m Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present the fascinating English
Actress
EMELIE POLINI in
KINDLING,
A Play with a Message.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
H OI1 ”® THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
" Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
HARRY CAREY in
OVERLAND RED.
ALBERT RAY and ELINOR FAIR in
TIN PAN ALLEY.
___ Price 9 as usual.
AS SEMBU HALL, MELBO CBNK
Collins Street—Opposite Auditorium.
Direction JOHN J. MAHER.
NORMAN V. PEARCE,
who recently returned after brilliant Stage and
Platform Successes in America.
DRAMATIC RECITAL.
Gems from Dickens, Shakspeare, Robert Service,
Kipling, Rupert Hughes, Mark Twain and noted
Australian authors.
Prices: 3/- and 2/-, plus tax. Plan at Glen’s.
T THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
gRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films inni"din«
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGR'APH, PATHE
WORLD and SELZNICK.
JIIE ALLAN WILJKIE COMPANIES.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
in
THE ROTTERS.
OPENING JULY 31, PRINCESS’S THEATRE, .
MELBOURNE.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” Touring
South Island of Nc\y Zealand.
Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
Legal Notice.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
J?E STEPHEN CLEMENTS also known as STEPHEN
CLEMMENTS late of Byer Siding Mackay in
the State of Queensland Farmer deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claiming
to be next of kin of the above-named STEPHEN
CLEMENTS also known as STEPHEN CLEMMENTS
late of Byer Siding Mackay in the State of Queens-
land Farmer deceased who died on or about the
ninth day of July 1919 a.d. at Mackay in the said
State are hereby required to forward proof of their
relationship to the Local Deputy Public Curator
Townsville on or before the third day of September
1920. And that after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date the Local Deputy Public Curator
Townsville will proceed to distribute the assets of
the said deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto
having regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this twenty-second day of June 1920.
JAS COMERFORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator.
Townsville.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offioe-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
■rt
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Reputation Watches.
we receive) is a very fine one.
Our reputation for
Watches (we know
■from numbers of letters
Why? How?
... * Eighty years of Watch-selling has given us the knowledge of
Watch construction.
Our great capital enables us .to secure the best.
Our enormous output permits large buying. Large buying
secures lowest quotations and finest qualities.
Then,
Eveiy Watch is tested by experts before being stocked.
Every Watch is examined and tested when sold.
Every Watch is guaranteed for 15 years.
Every Watch carnes our good name, and so we are careful
that the best service is given.
And oui pi ices ior the best qualities only— will he found to
be the lowest.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD., 23 8 25 Hunter Street
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney. Plain Figures—Cash Only
s
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised Steel
15-jewelled Lever Watch, 03/-
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Prioe 2/- post free.
V
ms
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top, lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about s*lb Freight paid
£6/10/
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman’s
Mecum.
“SURE
Guide.
Vade
m
IS
825. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
• vl ' English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28- or 30-
incn barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
pa ent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7 Jib. Freight paid,
£lB/18/
iiooian ;> having Sticks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
MesaiMi
812. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 711 b. -g i f I
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid,o|lU/“
:
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight _ _ ,
about 71b . Freight paid, 5/*5/"
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS ... lO O lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
df
gd
fg
ď
fg
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2£in. cartridg
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jib Freight paid,
SUNOL TOBACCO
High-grade Virginia—Natural Aroma.
SEND FOR 2oz. SAMPLE PACKET TO DAY.
Dark 1/4, Post Free; Bright 1/6, Post Free.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
df
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, SOin.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6£lb. n " n Qn 110 nnn,
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
... , or 32in.
Gun can be taken apart, same as
B7 ~Eiector. 55/- po ! ta /^: 2 /L N ± w - :
ILLUSTRATED
SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
1C
• •
mm.
7}USTR7ILmS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
am> TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Tiewcastk l Brisbane


Best for Children
and Grown Folks too
Little Miss MARJORIE LEE ( from a photo.)
Dear Sirs,—
Being a very loyal user of
your wonderful remedy, Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, I
am sending you a photograph
of my little girl, Marjorie Lee,
who has been kept free from
severe colds for three years
through my giving her Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery.
When nearly two years old
she got a severe cold, which
developed into pneumonia,
and I very nearly lost her.
She was wrapped in wadding
for weeks, and only recovered
with the closest care. As her
dear father died from pneu-
monia, when she was but five
months old, you can imagine
how frightened I am of it. I
feel that through Dr. Shel-
don’s Netv Discovery I am
doing my utmost to prevent
the dreaded disease. When
she is now threatened with a
cold I give her Dr. Sheldon’s
at once, and this ikeeps off
the bcfrt symptoms,, her cold
generally passings lightly
away.
You may use thist letter in
any way you like, as I would
like everyone to know how
much I think of yoiur lovely
medicine, and how grateful I
am fa>r its benefits.
Yours truly'.
(Sgd.) BLANCH® LEE,
Stowport, Burnie, (Tasmania.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Night or day mother is on the job, she must keep her husband, herself and the children well
and happy. She has her little helpers, and the best of all is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
coughs and colds. When mother appears with Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in her hand, coughs
and colds disappear from the household. In the dead of night they work together, arresting
baby’s croupy cough; in the morning they frighten away sonny’s cold in the head! before nc
leaves for school. When Sis gets measles mother and Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery keep her s^ te
and comfv; and dad’s asthma has left him altogether since mother introduced him to Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery.
As to mother herself—oh, she hasn't time to be ill, so Dr. Sheldon’s New takes
care of her on the very first sign of a cold. For health and happiness in any household Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery and mother are the very best ever. New Discovery, 1/6 arwl •>/-.
D« Sheldons
New Discovery
ms
E
OUGHS
AND
oiLds
F orged
Steel
Balls
Manufactured by
Ernest Newell & Co.,
Misterton, England.
to 5 in. in Diameter.
Have You Pre-War Ball Mills?
We can quote renewals. Sizes
5 and 8.
Write now for full Particulars,
Prices, etc.
British-Austral ian
ENGINEERING CO. Ltd.
Cr. Queen and Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Box 1303 G.P.O.
Get Catalogues, Particulars and Prices of MARSHALL LOCOMOBILES,
NEWELL ROTARY KILNS, UNIFLOW STEAM ENGINE’S, SANDY
CROFT AIR COMPRESSORS.
N.S.W. Agents:
Austral Engineering Supply Co., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents:
Parsons and Robertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
North Head.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IVT ORTH Head, unchanging, stands at
j v the Gate
' Of the Harbor of Beauty, the City
of Pride,
A warder over the narrow strait,
A watcher over the changing tide.
It was shaped and moulded by forces dead,
While miliions of mornings flashed and fled ;
By wind and wave it was sculptured and
worn
Or ever the Beautiful City was born
On the winding azure waterways
And the sapphire courts of the bays.
Superb and bold
And as Earth’s self old
It has lifted its tall, storm-beaten form,
Disdaining the ocean’s strength, unchanging,
Withstanding the great, green rollers ranging
From the grim south ice-waste, mother of
storm.
From the desolate South land, lost and lone,
North-rushing to die in a last, lost fight;
And no tremor stirs in that bastion of stone
In the raving wind of the wildest night.
Through ages lonely
The birds’ cries only,
And only these,
Disturbed the silence of desolate seas ;
Only the seagulls, ruby-eyed,
Beheld the glory that blossomed and died,
The startling beauty of pageantry
By Nature set on the changing sea;
The splendor of glittering nights and days
That circles about her path always,
Whether she glories on the sea
Or colors the blossom on the tree..
Not for man’s pleasure
Is Nature’s treasure
4)f loveliness lavished and strewn so far,
For with sweeping vestments of Beauty she
strayed
Over ocean and mountain, from star to star,
For measureless aeons ere he was made.
She fashioned of Earth one great, green
flower;
She painted the dawn and the sunset hour,
And no mortal eye was there to view
The wonder that wandered the whole world
through.
And when Time has taken his toll
Of all that once was so fair.
When pitiless ages shall roll
And cover Man and his care,
When to dust shall-crumble his builded walls
And no footfall sounds in his empty halls,
Unmoved by his seath as of old by his birth,
This wonder shall flame oh the Man-less
Earth.
North Head keeping
Its watch unsleeping
Saw the first sail like a lily growing
On the wide, blue field of that sliipless sea;
Felt the deep thrill of a new flood flowing—
A flood-tide freighted with Destiny.
And the Old Age spanning the long, lone
years,
Goes out, as that first ship landward steers,
Like a dead thing cast on an ebbing tide
To the bourne where the finished cycles
abide.
By placid reaches
And sweet gold beaches
All the forested foreshore quickens and
thrills
Till the City quarried from sandstone stands
A queen enthroned on a hundred hills,
Imperial over the Last of the Lands;
And passing North Head in the narrow way,
Of old known only to screaming gulls,
With belching smokestacks by night and day
Goes the long procession of iron hulls,
The ships that carry the world’s increase,
The grain, the gold and the Golden Fleece.
An eager throng from the old lands sailing
In the wilderness wrought with hearts un-
quailing.
New forces grew to spirit and hand
From the mystical touch of the new, strange
land.
For gold they ransacked the hillsides bare
And the gullies of tree-fern and maiden-hair.
They traversed the mountains and slew in
their going
The great, bronze gums in the forests grow-
ing;
And in kingdoms, ravished from iron trees,
Their wheat waxed gold and waved in the
breeze;
While on plains, through the waiting years
unstirred,
Grew the noise of the hoofs of a mighty herd.
So, sighing, perchance, for the old, dead
things,
From hollow and height
The past takes flight
With a rustle unheeded of vanishing wings.
Forever viewing the ceaseless flow
Of the ships and tides that come and go,
Immutable, old, and strong as Fate,
North Head keeps guard at the Harbor Gate.
When the exile watches wdth misty eyes,
For there is no land so dear as his own,
The beaches and cliffs of the shore arise,
His gaze falls first on this warder of stone;
Or to seaward faring on some black night,
With tempest bitter and white foam shod,
He will see, in the glare of the South Head
light,
This great, calm cameo carved by God.
N.s.w.
P. E. QUINN.
The Jilted God.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE hot, stagnant air was heavy with
the smell of the reef that lay bare
under the misty stars. The palms
were motionless, their feathery tops just
silvered by the rising moon ; and no sound
broke the silence save the soft murmur of
tiny waves against the beach.
Tasso stood in the heavy shadow of the
palms and scanned the white beach that
stretched away on either side. Then, with-
out further attempt at concealment, he
strode down towards the water, the coarse
sand gritting under his feet. He was naked
but for a girdle round his waist in which
he carried an unsheathed knife, and his
hands were empty.
Light-colored for a native, his skin showed
warm and clear as he entered the moon-
light. His free stride and proud carriage
spoke of youth and health, and the smooth,
rippling play of his great muscles indicated
strength far above the average.
Reaching the water’s edge he removed
the knife from his girdle, and, holding it
ready for instant action, waded out till the
water was up to his armpits. Thereupon
he struck out with a powerful side-stroke
that rapidly took him towards the misty
horizon.
Four miles ahead of him lay another
island, the home of the coua-coua, or
witch-people, and for that reason held in
dread by the inhabitants of the other islands
of the group. But on that island was the
woman of Tasso’s desire, guarded by the
“watchers” till the time came for her to
become the blood-soaked bride of the god
Zooga.
As he swam steadily forward he thought
of the woman —little more than a girl, being
barely 18 —who had been “chosen” and car-
ried off bv the coua-coua just 13 moons
ago. She had been proud and happy as the
beauty of her tribe; proud, too, that her
beauty had made Tasso love her. He thought
of the night under the palms when she
swayed towards him in surrender and they
stood clasped in each other’s arms for a
moment, ere she tore herself away and van-
ished among the shadows. Next day the vir-
gins of the tribe had been called together
before the coua-coua, and the “seekers”
had taken her and led her away to become
the bride of Zooga.
Tasso made no attempt to save her then,
for he knew that none would have dared to
aid him; he would have been killed with-
out helping the girl in any way. He remem-
bered that their eyes had met as she was
being led away, and.he saw that she under-
stood and knew he would find a way to save
her. He had watched the canoe, decorated
with dried heads and crude wooden figures,
leave the shore that night under just such
another moon as was now flooding the sea
with its silver light. He had stood under
the palms and watched till it had been lost
in the distance and moon-haze.
Zooga’s island was tabu, and Tasso was
the only man who had ever visited it and
returned ; and now, for the thirteenth time,
he was going over there. Twelve times
already he had broken the tabu and braved
the dangers of the god’s island to find some
way of saving the girl who trusted him;
12 times lie had risked death by torture on
the great stone at the feet of the god. He
had seen the stone, and the god, and to see
these meant death. He had crept up close
to the “watchers” and seen them at their
rites and dances ; he_ had crawled behind the
huts surrounding the great dumuru, or man-
house, and had seen the strings of dried
heads, strung like beads on lawyer-cane,
hanging about the walls and doorway of the
place.
lie knew the tracks that led to the god’s
abode, and also to the guarded house in
which Vaduna was kept. But always the
“watchers” were on the alert, keeping close
to the girl who to-morrow would become the
bride of their blood-god. He knew, tbo, that
this was the season when the “seekers” were
away searching for the next bride, and that
great preparations would be in hand for the
morrow’s celebration and sacrifice.
Could he reach her now? If once he
could get her clear of the “watchers” and
down to the beach they would be safe. To-
gether they would swim back to their own
island, where she would be in no further
danger from the “seekers,” as it would be
said that Zooga had sent her home.
He was drawing nearer to the island now,
and would soon be in danger of being seen.
As he drove through the water with long,
untiring strokes he suddenly stopped and
listened. The dull, thudding of a huge
wooden drum vibrated through the night
across the water. Tasso shuddered. Was
he too late?
He swam on, faster now, and soon
reached the spot where the mangroves grew
some 50 yards out into the sea. Finding
bottom he silently waded through the mud
under the trees, carefully avoiding the arch-
ing roots that ran in all directions above
and under the water.
Reaching dry land, he cleaned the foul,
clinging mud from his legs and feet and
walked over to a giant wongai-tree, growing
among the rocks behind the mangroves.
Thrusting his hand into a hole in the trunk
he brought out two cocoanut shells and
a knife similar to the one he had with him.
These he had brought over on previous visits
and hidden ready for use when the time
came; and now the time had come, for the
moon would be full to-morrow and it would
then be too late.
Taking one of the shells that were filled
with cocoanut-oil, he used his powerful teeth
to remove the hard wooden plug that served
as a cork, and pouring the contents into his
cupped hands rubbed it all over his body.
Again the heavy thudding of the drum
vibrated through the hot silence of the night.
Quickly finishing his preparations he fast-
ened one knife tightly to his waist with the
girdle; then rubbing his hands in the sand
to remove the oil and give him a better grip,
he picked up the other knife and silently
dived into the dense tropical undergrowth
before him.
Swiftly working his way through the bush
he came to a well-w’orn track where he
paused for a, moment, listening intently.
Again, he heard the heavy beating of the
sacred drum. Its deep booming note swelled
louder and louder till the whole night seemed
to throb to it; and then gradually it died
away into utter silence again.
As Tasso followed the well-defined track
that ran close to and parallel with the
beach, he kept a keen lookout among the
ink-black shadows around him, and his ears
were strained to catch the faintest sound.
To his left the beach gleamed white under
the almost-full moon, and the water swirled
silently here and there around the black,
weather-worn rocks.
Cautiously and silently as the night itself,
he pursued his way. The interlaced branches
and palm-leaves overhead threw a shadow so
dark that, where no reflected light from the
water penetrated, it was inky-black. Here
and there, where the huge leaves w r ere
thinner, the brilliant moonlight streamed
through, and here he left the track and
(Continued on next page.)


•>
tr-zv
s>v~-
Redness
Soreness
and
Painful
Cracks
Healed
I*s
V/
::
:§
EVERY
HOME
NEEDS
A POT .
ZAM-BUK IS SOOTHING AND HEALING.
WHAT irritation arises from raw, chapped hands! If the skin is
at all sensitive one suffers more or less in this way all the year
round, but with the damp, cold and frost of winter the hands
and wrists become a positive torture. First the skin loses its pleasant
softness, then there is a disagreeable roughness and redness, followed by
cracking and bleeding, particularly in the region of the knuckles and wrists.
This distressing condition is made worse by drying the hands or face carelessly
after washing on a raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps, or any cold sores, may
lead to painful swelling and inflammation. There is a danger of grit and dirt
getting into the cracks of the skin and setting up positive torture.
Zam-Buk is the scientific balm which, in addition to allaying the inflam-
mation and pain and healing chaps, cold-sores and roughness, also imparts a
new and remarkable healthiness to the skin itself. Smear Zam-Buk on at night
and wear an old pair of gloves till morning. The effect of the application of
Zam-Buk is delightfully cooling and soothing. Its healing ingredients, which
have set it on a pinnacle apart from ordinary ointments and lotions polluted
by animal fats and minerals, instantly soak into and thoroughly permeate the tissues of
the skin, softening and healing in a perfectly natural way—the unique Zam-Buk way.
The GREAT WINTER SKIN-BALM.
*
In winter Zam-Buk is unsur-
passed for Chapped Hands,
Cliafings, Chilblains, Stiff Neck,
Sprains, Stiffness, Rheumatism,
Chest Pains, Sore Throat and
other aches and pains. Zam-Buk
is also excellent for Cuts, Burns,
Bruises, Sores, Ulcers, Bad Legs
and Ankles, Abscesses, Children’s
Scalp Troubles, Poisoned Wounds,
Boils, Rashes, Barber’s Rash, Raw
Chins, Inflamed Patches and other
skin troubles. Obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores at 1/6 and 3/6
per pot, or post free from C. E. Fulford
(Aust.) Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Refuse Substitutes.
CHAPPED
CRACKED
HANDS
HEALED.
Mrs. M. Jackson, of Petrie Terrace, Brisbane, says: —“In the winter months
I have suffered greatly from chapped hands, and they become extremely sore
and cracked, the cracks or Assures being deep and red-raw. The westerly
winds, which are keen, dry the hands and make the skin very brittle. They
become very burning and smarting. I have found the best thing I ever used
for them is Zam-Buk, and I have derived wonderful relief from it, as it
softens the skin and heals the cracks, restoring the hands to their normal
condition.”
mu
j
SOOTHING HEALER.
took to the bush where the shadows were
deepest.
Presently his quick ears detected a slight
sound in the darkness ahead; he stopped
dead, motionless as the tree-trunks around
him, with every nerve and muscle strung
ready for instant action. H e well knew
the danger he was in, but the call of sex
was strong, and Vaduna was expecting him.
k or what seemed an eternity he stood
there, with every sense strained to catch
some further indication of what he knew
must be the “watchers.” But pot a sound
broke the thick silence save the dull splash
of big fish falling back into the water far
out at sea.
The shadows slowly swung over to the
moon’s progress across the sky. The air re-
mained dead and heavy, and the heat in
the undergrowth was stifling. Sweat poured
from his body as he stood there invisible in
the darkness, waiting—waiting.
Suddenly a tree-frog croaked a few feet
ahead of where he stood, and almost imme-
diately another answered from behind him,
which was followed by a third somewhere
down the track.
Tasso stiffened, and his grip tightened on
the knife. The “watchers” had located him.
Swiftly and silently as a snake he dropped
to the earth and slithered through the bush.
towards the beach, but as he shot across
the track a dark object hurled itself at his
legs,, gripping them below the knees and
flinging him into the bushes on the opposite
side.
No silence now, though the Thing—what-
ever it was—that clung to him, made no
sound, but hung there, a silent horror that
made Tasso’s blood run cold.
He drove his knife into the Thing’s back,
and with one tremendous kick heaved himself
free.
He was barely on his feet again when three
other forms flung themselves upon him. But
these were men, and Tasso knew what he had
to deal with.
Twice they rushed him, and once they got
him down, but his strength and well-oiled
body enabled him to elude them.
A third time they came on, and now Tasso
felt the fatal noose of human hair slip over
his shoulders and tighten round his arms
just above the elbows, holding them close to
his sides.
With his knife he managed to cut the rope
as he fell backwards. But one of his op-
ponents fell on top of him, clasping him
tightly round the arms, while the other two
attempted to bind his legs.
Quick as a flash he buried his great teeth
in the throat of the man above him, and
literally tore it out.
Wrestling himself free he regained his feet
as the other two closed. Deep in one man’s
body he buried the knife, so deep that he
had not plucked it out again when the other
man was upon him.
This map was the strongest of the three,
and Tasso was weakening after his enormous
exertions. As they closed he put out his
full strength and almost succeeded in getting
a death-hold. But the “watcher” slipped
from his grasp and sped away along the
track in the direction of the thudding drum,
which was again sending its booming note
pulsing through the night.
Instantly Tasso realised that the man must
not escape, and weary as he was he darted
in pursuit.
Fear for his life drove the “watcher” for-
ward, but Tasso had more, than that to
strengthen his muscles and give him speed.
With a tremendous effort he grabbed the
“watcher” by the hair and bounded on his
back, bearing him to the earth. Before he
could utter a sound Tasso’s right hand had
found his throat, while the left hand covered
the face. In spite of the man’s frantic
struggles his head was forced slowly back,
and round, over the left shoulder, till, with
a sudden dull snap, it sagged loose on the
broken neck.
Tasso dropped exhausted over the limp
body. As he lay thei-e, his great lungs suck-
ing in long, sobbing breaths, the dull thudding
of the drum gradually diminished and died
down into silence.
Staggering to his feet he surveyed the
body of the dead “watcher” lying in the
moonlight that filtered through the over-
hanging foliage. Three of his opponents had
been men, but that other —he shuddered
as he retraced his steps to where he had
first been attacked, lie must recover the
two knives at any cost, even though he had
to return to where that silent horror was
lying.
Having found the knives he glanced fur-
tively at the huddled body of the thing. It
was a dwarf covered with long black hair
like some great ape.
Tasso hurried away along the track till
he saw the glow of a fire ahead, and heard
the sound of many voices chanting a dirge.
Entering the bush he headed inland, paus-
ing every few moments to listen intently and
smell the air. Working round the fire in
a wide circle he finally came to a clearing
where the earth was fiat and hard with the
trampling of feet.
In the middle of this space stood a grass-
house, built in the usual manner, with nipa-
palm thatch, but much larger than the ordi-
nary living-houses.
This was the house in which Vaduna
should be. It was here that the future bride
of the god was kept till the time came for
her to be taken out and given over to the
sacrifice that covered Zooga’s body with
steaming red blood.
Pausing under the shadows of the trees he
carefully examined the moonlit space before
him. He saw the door of the house, on
either side of which stood a huge wooden
figure; he also saw that the “watcher,”
seated on the ground between the two figures
was asleep, with his head down on his
knees.
Gliding across the clearing he gained the
shadow of the house. Keeping one of the
wooden figures between the “watcher” and
himself, he approached the door.
One quick spring and his knife was buried
up to the hilt between the shoulders of the
sleeping man, whose death-cry was strangled
by the grip on his throat.
Tasso stood up and listened. Ail was
silent save for faint singing in the distance.
Pushing back the mat that hung before
the door he softly called the girl’s name.
It was dark inside, and he could hear no
sound.
Suddenly he felt her hand close over his.
Whispering his name she warned him to be
silent.
Then, without waiting an instant, they
slipped outside, crossed the clearing, and
were lost in the darkness of the bush.
Arriving at the beach near the mangroves
they entered the water together, and struck
out silently and swiftly for their island
home.
When about a third of the way across
they heard the most terrific uproar from
the huge sacred drum and the ceremonial
conch-shells, and Tasso knew that at least
some part of his night’s work had been dis-
covered. He was not afraid of pursuit;
none would suspect that the girl had left
the island, and search would be made. He
looked at Vaduna swimming strongly beside
him, and his eyes glowed. She was good
to look at, and now she would be all his.
The moon was low, and the east held
the first pale suggestion of coming dawn as
they emerged from the water at the spot
where Tasso had entered it on the previous
evening. Staggering up the beach they
flung themselves down under the palms, ex-
hausted after their long swim; but Tasso
was soon on his feet again and standing
before the girl. She rose and faced him,
and looked deep into his eyes; then taking
his hands in hers she placed them over her
breasts in token that she gave herself to
him, and swaying towards him her lips
found his and clung.
Thus they stood for a moment while the
blood raced through their veins. Then with
a sudden movement she disengaged herself
from her lover’s arms and sped away through
the shadows.
Silently she glided into the village that lay
sleeping under the rosy blush of coming
dawn. There was no one About, and she
crept like a shadow into her father’s house,
and lay down in the corner that she had
never expected to see again.
* * * *
Tasso coming up from the beach some two
hours later, with his long fish-spear and
string of fish, found the village in an uproar,
and heard that Vaduna had been brought
back by the god during the night.
FRNK G. EARL.
Night Shift.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MIDNIGHT in the ,plac§s of perpetual
night. Underfoot, water, mud and
slush, and wet rails that glisten
in t e flickering light of a pit lamp. Over-
head, long, dim vistas of timber stretch back
into the gloom. Behind, the “main haul-
age,” a wide cavern leading to the surface
on a grade of one in three. Ahead smaller
tunnels, branching in all directions, blacker
patches in the murk. The dismal drip, drip,
drip of water falling in the silence of places
where living things do not abide.
Far up the main haulage a line of bob-
bing points of light, slowly descending until
faces and figures loom out of the darkness
that closes in as they pass. The night-
shift is down.
Groups cluster, and conversation rolls
about in fragments.
“I’d like tjo know who the hell was
wheelin’ out of Eighteen last night. The
rotten cow left a full skip of stone off the
line. Fair across the track”
“Strike me, but she’s a ignorant way to
get a livin’. Even the cows an’ roosters
know enough to go to bed when it gets”
“Ven I get ’ere I pawn my overcoat an’
a good clothes to get ’im in de board’
house. An’ I fill ’im up wid booze an’ ’e
get a yob. Den las’ Friday ’e pinch my
oder clothes an’ gone to Melbourne. I get
a bit wild, an’ I get dronk. Den dey shuck
me in de lock-up, an’ I fetch five kvid in
de morning. A man ought to”
“Met the Count on the other side. He
had the bat in a good school and had done
’em seven times. He pulled a few quid
for the look of the thing and went up for
60. Then he fumbled the burl and sent the
lot up—two dinkum browns and the nob.
‘Take yer pick out o’ them, you ,’ he
says, and when the punters finished there
wasn’t a kick apiece for the dollar bettors.
Next day”
“Where’s your mate, Russia?”
“I tink he sleep in. He got de nice
vife”
The deputy’s voice breaks in. “Any of
you goin’ to work to-night? Or will I take
your tokens now? ’Ere’s the ponies
down an’ you sit there as if you were
waitin’ to see who’d shout.”
Unhurriedly the groups disperse, rever-
berating voices dropping to a hollow
rumble.
Up the main haulage there is the chink
of loose chains and the clatter of a shod
hoof against iron rails. At the bottom the
ponies stand quietly while the wheelers get
their orders. There is stone to b„e pulled
out of Six, where a bad fall has blocked
the road, and timber to be taken in. A set
of points for Twelve, with a set of curves
and a straight set for Ten. In the main
heading, half a mile on, another pony is
needed.
The points go in first. The unwritten
law requires that, once broken, the line
must be rejoined before day-shift comes
down. Nothing must stop the coalie on
contract.
Gradually they rumble away, and again,
through the dreary drip, drip, drip, one
hears the silence.
From the north-end comes the rattle of
a winch and the tattoo of a jackhammer. A
swelling rumble from Twelve marks the
first full skip out. On a heavy pinch the
wheeler is encouraging his pony. “Buster!
You - ! Giddup!”
The night-shift is at work.
W. J. L.


i:
.
a
■
•• *A
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
gueenslaiid Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—B9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
HorUck’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you.
HORUCK'S
MALTED MILK
gd
m
m
-
h
Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JAHR AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNEKS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches ip .all parts of- the worlcL
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn,_ London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Gooff for
teeth, appetite*
digestion
The new flavour
that everyone likes.
Obtainable everywhere—
3d. per packet of 6 bars
Delicious, lone-lasting*
refreshing
SS®K
SWJ
A2l
Send 3d. for
trial packet to
WRIGLEY'S
BOX 2376, G. P. O.*
Sydney
Made Itl AUSTRALASIA
The
Flavour Lasts'
r
/
.
/
N
/
i
t
V
w
2SW--
fc
/
A
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. .• To prove what w. <t
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all. , „
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsed since 1596 C U RES " Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
TAN KS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter's Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the worl
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prioa.
GENUINE must ,
bear signature
r
CARTERS
f ITTi-I
IVER
PILLS
If any illustration appearing in Thet
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
?er, who will quote you price for it.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D, Bryant, Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
J^mjnpon,
Shot Citm Cartridges
T~>EMINGTON UMG cartridges
JA. give maximum results in all
standard makes of shotguns .Their unfail-
ing accuracy, uniformity and evenness of
pattern are a guarantee of good sport.
for Shootingßighi
Marketed under four tradenames; NITRO CLUB—ARROW —NEW
CLUB —REMINGTON and in all gauges including 410 and 14mm.—
black and smokeless powders.
Cataloguesfree upon request.


iNGRQvnr
LEATHER I
LTI
Power Transmission
depends entirely upon the belting you use.
Faulty belting is a source of worry and a
drain on profits. Mangrovite Leather or Raw
Hide Belting has been proved absolutely
efficient for all power-transmission purposes—
and under the most severe conditions. Made
in Australia and guaranteed. It will pay
YOU to investigate.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
SPECIFY “AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE’’
It assures you of getting Knives of the highest-quality steel, which cut
cleaner, hold their edges longer and save time usually spent in re-sharpening.
OurCHAFFCUTTER KNIVES
are made in all sizes for Bentall, Richmond & Chandler,
Buncle, and Cliff fc Bunting machines.
For prompt attention address all inquiries to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers f Ultra-Capital High-Speed steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgroorlie
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Heid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
m.
SSII
jsr\
i-i fc> ro il i Tg
GENUINE ASBESTOS CEMENT SHEETS
We are Sole Agents for “Fibrolite”
Australian-made Genuine Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Slates, “Fibro-G” Cold Water
Paint, and suppliers of the following' build-
ing materials. We can consequently quote
you at the best-obtainable prices.
“FIBEKEIC” Building Board.
“CREO WOOD” Stains.
“RENIEITE” British-made Roll Roofing
and Dainpeourse.
“CERTAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
REINFORCED Cement Tubs.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc.
Write for Price List and Particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Gurrie Street, ADELAIDE.
The “K. <& G.” PETROL SAVER
is an Australian Invention.
I,
m
|/W |i
Induction•/
Pipe of Motor
Spiral Fins to whirl.
Gas and thoroughly
Air Passage from
Valve k> Radial Moles
Qarburet/or
Gauze to break
up gas and prevent
I y Jback firing
[Air Supply [hive
J Confrol/edjrom
a, Steering byflexible
-{Cable and Lover
„ Radial Airholes fa
distribute Air evenffi
The inventors, however, do not seek patronage on that fact alone, but rather they
rely on the INSTRUMENTS SUPERLATIVE MERITS, applicable to AUSTRALIAN
CONDITIONS. ___________
The Makers of
The "K. <a G.” PETROL SAVER
who are well-known Automobile Mechanics, have such faith in their device that they
sell it on the basis of
A 30 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL,
together with a guarantee of a saving up to
5 MILES PER GALLON
on any make of Car: or Carburetter. If you are not satisfied at the end of that time
your money will be refunded. *
The Price of the "K. S G.” PETROL SAVER is £3
and it is worth every penny, as the installing of it is real economy.
SWANS LIMITED,
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
.
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made.. expressly for attach-
ing to. fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondenee invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
4
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines, listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORKSendSpecifications
ALDERDIGE LTD., Warrnambool
l ujll
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYJ
LTD.,
DNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDEK, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
a
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
jßeliabie
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANK! LTD.,
309 Ken| Street, Sydney; 380" Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
m
Your choice of
STEAM FITTINGS
is fully justified when you select such Fittings that protect your Plant against
accident, loss of power, and high cost of maintenance. Accuracy, Quality and
Durability are three essentials built into every one of our Fittings, the special-
ised product of the United Brass Founders of England. Stocks of English
Fittings are scarce at present, but we have .good selections on hand of the
following: l —
Valves, Fullway Valves, Plug Cocks, Asbestos
and Gland Packed Cocks, Pressure and Vacuum
Gauges, Gauge Mountings, Lubricating Devices,
Injectors, etc., in Brass, Gunmetal and Iron.
Prices are right, send us your enquiries.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
Cable Address s “LACY,** Sydney.
150
120
210
m
60
m
50
‘mm
PRE SS UR t CAUSE
f
