

DEWAR’S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUC TIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS S
.ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION. <
NSW MONT de PIETE
D $ I C9T LIMITED.
74 St.74.Sydne-y
CAPITAL £L200,000 ‘Phone CiLy 5325
Srjoc/rej ft- 29 King St.. Newcastle. N‘s - W - 715‘17 swansTOmst.Meilv Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. 197 A Castlereagh 51.159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill, General Hansen
fdsf
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
For unfavorable climatic and working
conditions we recommend
CHROMOL
(Chrome Tan Leather),
The Super Driving Belt.
It gives longer and more efficient service.
J.C.LudowiciSSonLtd,
Tanners & Leather Betting Makers,
Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
THE BEST !
0
m
a
&
22
m.
Q
1
nea
nd
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J,
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
1
■
“Not the same as others,,
for Roofing
for Dampcourse
for Flooring
Malthoid is “not the -same as others,” and with
ordinary care will last as long as the structure on
which it is used.
It is ideal roofing, and does not corrode, rot or leak;
is a perfect damp-course which years of great com-
pression or heat does not destroy; while on floors of
bathrooms, lavatories, balconies, verandahs, base-
ments, factories, etc., it makes an almost everlasting
waterproof and acid-proof covering.
Actual samples and literature, post free, on request, from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street , SYDNEY.
a* v ' t ® 4 S SYve* is
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth,
J.D.K.Z. GIN
(The Square Bottle with
the Heart-shaped Label.)
Agents—OßME, KEIGWIN <&. Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
sduund
Whatever your pumping problem may be we can equip you with a reliable
power pump to take care of it.
Our long experience is at your disposal. Ask our advice on any require-
ment for ordinary water supply, irrigation, mine work, and every type
of factory or industrial requirement.
We have stocks and a complete range of sizes and types of Triplex, Pyramid
and Centrifugal Pumps for any kind of service.
Write for catalogue, giving prices and all particulars, to
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darlint Buildings. Adelaide.
OPAIiOID
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Deoay.
OPAIiOID
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2110.
Thursday, July 22, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W* Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the NEW .
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. — Advt.
\
3S&
>
Farm
Accounts
—they’re a worry but
they have to be done,
and letters also have to.
be written. Make it
more of a pleasure—as-
so many men have
done —by using a
Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pen.
You’ll be surprised
what a difference
it makes.
untainFen
Watermans
Three Types: “ S elf -
filling,” -‘Safety” and
“Regular,” of Stationers
arid Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd., Corner, London, Eng.
Australia:
HAROLD D DIXON, 105, Clarence Street Sydney.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
INTERESTING SELECTIONS FROM THE WORLD'S SMARTEST BEAUTY
ARTICLES—SIMPLE RECIPES MOST EFFECTIVE.
HOW TO DISCARD AN UNSIGHTLY
COMPLEXON.
“Toilet Club Notes.”
How many women exclaim as they behold
their ugly complexion in the mirror, "If I
could only tear off tliis old skin!” And, do
you know, it is now possible to do that very
thing? Not to actually remove the entire
skin all of a sudden; that would be too
heroic a method and painful, too, I imagine.
The worn-out cuticle comes off in such tiny
particles, and so gradually—requiring about
ten days to complete the transformation—it
doesn’t hurt a bit- Day by day the beautiful
complexion underneath comes forth. Mar-
vellous ! No matter how muddy, rough,
blotchy or aged your complexion, you can
surely discard it by this simple process.
Just get some ordinary mercolised wax at
your chemist’s, apply nightly like cold cream,
washing it off in the mornings.
WHY HAVE GREY HAIR
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless recipe
will correct it ?
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy, and has given perfect
satisfaction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
A STRANGE SHAMPOO.
“Cosy Corner Chats.”
* * * I was much interested to learn
from this young woman with the beautiful
glossy hair that she never washes it with
soap or artificial shampoo powders. Instead
she makes her own shampe > by dissolving a
teaspoont'ul of stallax granules in a cup of
hot water. “I make m.v chemist get the
stallax for me,” said she. “It comes only
in sealed packages, enough to make up
twenty-five or thirty individual shampoos,
and it smells so good I could almost eat it.”
Certainly this little lady’s hair did look
wonderful even if she has strange ideas of a
shampoo. I am tempted to try the plan
myself.
BLACKHEADS INSTANTLY GO,
The new sparkling face-bath treatment gives
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the
skin. You have only to obtain some tablets
of styraol from the chemist, drop one into
a glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the effervescence has sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores im-
mediately contract to normal and the greasi-
ness disappears, leaving the skin smooth,
soft and cool and free from blemish. i>u‘
to make sure that this desirable result is
permanent, it is advisable # to repeat tne
treatment several times at intervals of say
about four or five days.
IS POWDER NECESSARY?
“Practical Suggestions.” .
I say emphatically, No! There is a simple
lotion which can be easily and cheaply made
at home, and it is at the same time both
effective and beneficial to the complexion.
Cleminite is a splendid substitute for face
powder, which is at the bottom of many
complexion troubles. Get about an ounce
from the chemist, and dissolve in four table-
spoonfuls of water. The result is a fine
clear liquid, which instantly gives the face,
neck or arms that peach-like bloom or
perfect health. There is nothing to equal
it for greasy skins, and the result lasts all
day long under the most trying conditions. [I
UJ
Pure wool ol the finest quality
is spun and woven by British
workpeople in Britain to make
these Jason Stockings and
\Socks with the Finish that
{affords sheer comfort
ithrough wear.
Two good ends are achieved
when you buy Jason
You get whatyow need— first quality stockingß and socks,
all-wool, unshrinkable, perfect-fitting, with the downy-
soft Jason Finish: and you uphold the manufacturers
of the Mother-country against foreign competition.
Stockings
For’Men, W
Quality
and Socks
Drapers and Stores everywhere can
you, Sec the JTab*
Manufactured by :
W. TYLER SONS & CO~.
King Street. Leicaater, England'
Th*Jaten
Tab
sdf
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
piugNfiaaatKKE
HUDSON
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says “ Proved to be effective bac
tericidaUy as is creosote.
Unlike
Se,”*l SSt, «' tteir .gf®
Sertfi prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken lifter meals.
The Red Page
Another View of Germany
Every British explorer of modern Ger-
many looks at the country through his own
lenses. The type of visitor who ever since
the Armistice has advocated a policy of going
through their pockets for the indemnity finds
the Germans revelling in pagan luxury
and writes darkly of the habits which came
before the fall of Rome. The militarist sees
a rifle in every hand and cellars stocked
with 5.9’s and gas shells. To the Bottom-
leyite Jingo they appear as offensively
arrogant as he, no doubt, does to them
a stiffnecked race deserving of no con-
sideration from their conquerors. George
Young, the brilliant author of The New
Germany, belongs to the school of thought
which is best expressed by London Nation,
a sober Liberal weekly which was banned
by the military censors in France during
the war. Young is something of a phenome-
non in a country of social pigeonholes such
as England. Rich, the heir to a title, and
an ex-member of the Diplomatic service (lie
was First Secretary of the Legation at Lis-
bon when the Great War began), his
political sympathies' are with Labor, and he
hates secret diplomacy. He served for
nearly four years; yet he is a pacifist of a
sort, and on demobilisation lie went to Ger-
many as correspondent of the Daily News.
It is inevitable that he should see, not an
opulent and bumptious Germany, but a
sorely stricken laud deserving of pity in
spite' of all its crimes; a land which, any-
how, must bo helped if European civilisa-
tion is to resist the hordes of the East.
Making every allowance for the fact that
each observer visits the Boche with a pre-
formed set of ideas and instinctively seeks
for justification of them, much of the pic-
ture which Young presents is as convincing
as it is sad. He arrived in Weimar (which
he had first known as a very youthful
attache) in time for the 1919 revolution.
He found Germany “much more like Turkey
than its old, well-fed-up, well-fitted-out self.
Dingy soldiers everywhere; dirt, decay and
deprivation everywhere; listlessness and
laissez faire on the surface with unrest and
upheaval below.” Of Berlin, which lie also
knew well in the past:—
It is like an Empire exhibition that has been
deserted and decaying through the storms of four
winters. The stucco ornaments have fallen, the
gilding is long gone, and the whole structure is rotting
away. Indeed, the first impression you get is that
both city and people are dying of a decline. The
people, like their homes, are dirty and dingy; every-
where crippled beggars and ruined or unroofed build-
ings show the direct effects of war. Clothes are
threadbare, faces thin. Stalwart, straight-backed
Americans, warmly clothed and well fed, stand out
like solid shapes amongst shadows. As they stride
through the streets you expect to see them pass
through these grey, dirty figures as through ghosts.
Ills account of the Revolution differs little
from other accounts of previous Revolutions
elsewhere. There are the street barricades
over which the forces of Property shoot at
the battalions of the proletariat, and vice
versa, both doing a lot- of damage to the vast
majority who desire to remain neutral. In
addition, since this is the 20th century, there
are heavy guns at Work, and the bombing of
crowded centres from aeroplanes. In the
intervals of the fighting haggard demagogues
make speeches, just as they would, in similar
circumstances, in Collins-street, and Martin-
place. There came a time when one Buja-
kowski decided to go and live in the Kaiser-
schloss in Berlin, just as here people with
names like Brown and Jones would invade
the different Government Houses, and, as
Bujakowski did, put on the late occupants’
clothes and presently be pushed out or assas-
sinated by fresh usurpers, as happened in the
case of the Berlin intruders. As in other
revolutions most o,f those responsible escaped
and the worst sufferers were the poor..
I went to a public soup-kitchen where a long
queue of every class was waiting for its plate of
potato soup, just potatoes, absolutely nothing else,
and they, too, deducted from the week’s rations.
“Splendid, splendid soup !” says an enthusiastic little
man, a small shopkeeper, perhaps; “not a rotten
potato in the whole plateful.”
Yet Young dined secretly with a banker who
gave him a Gargantuan meal of oysters, meat
and champagne.
The war cost Germany a million dead and
God alone knows how many disabled, and the
upheavals of the past 18 months hav*b taken
a further toll of the nation’s best. Young
claims that the people have now been “re-
duced to realities”; that they are in a fit
mental and moral state for the application of
the velvet glove without the iron hand: —
The artificialities of their shoddy Kaiser and their
shoddy Kultur have fallen in ruins round them. The
monstrous military-machine they built up for their
own protection and used for the oppression of Europe
is smashed. There remains just the German burgher
and the German worker, both slow-witted, simple
souls. So slow and simple, indeed, that they have
allowed a few hundred German bureaucrats to go on
governing them; thereby giving us a wrong impres-
sion of what they are thinking and wanting.
The writer’s conclusion is that we (Eng-
land) should revise the Versailles Treaty
and strive to make Germany a sort of moral
dependency—“a racial and regional border
province of Anglo-Saxondom, and a barrier
against the Asiatic irruption that is once
again advancing against Europe across the
Russian plains.” It is interesting as a
point of view, but its practicability is evi-
dently limited by France’s distaste of any
scheme designed to place the simple, slow-
witted j Hun in a position to re-start an
immemorial practice of raiding the territories
of his neighbors. The real value of the book
is the vivid picture which it supplies of revo-
lution aM its aftermath under modern con-
ditions. No I.W.W. bookshelf should be
without it. (From The Australasian Pub-
lishing Co., Sydney.)
The Illegitimate Sequel
Every man of letters has the scaffolding
of other men’s thought around his work.
The statement is as old as the habit, I
know, but let me go on for a minute. The
habit is unconscious, or so far sub-conscious
as to be negligible in criticism. One speaks
of a man writing “in the mode” of another,
of the “influence” of some other men being
noticeable in his work. The man has read
other men’s books —-that is all. Which is
to say, he has learned, or tried to learn,
his business. ~, ...
Another and more prominent habit ot tbe
writing-man’s mind is tli6 fathering of Ins
own children only. If Sir Harry Johnston
had been a writing-man first and an explpiei
and jungle-expert afterwards, he would
have given the characters in “The Gay Dom-
beys” different names, with the same attrac-
tive result. These characters are his child-
ren ; there is no reason for the fastening ot
another man’s jiames upon them. It is a
perfectly good book; a little garrulous and
occasionally more than a little stilted, but
an excellent picture of a garrulous and
occasionally stilted age. Clearly, the writer
has the artist's impressionable mmd, if as
clearly in his first attempt to express the
impressions there are blemishes in diction
and general construction. These blemishes
are made unnecessarily more obvious by the
need of explanations and references to the
Dickens Dombeys. No matter; the book is
good. It is almost a text-boo.k of new African
information, and in the large group of Don-
don people the reader meets many delight-
ful and amusing personalities who have no
relation whatever with Dickens, his manner
of thought, style or point of view. There-
fore, far from adding to the value of his
book by its “Dombey and Son” association,
the author has clipped its wings to no pur-
pose ; and a negative limitation serving no
purpose becomes an active, defect.
Now Johnston has done it again. “Mrs.
Warren’s Daughter” appears, continuing the
same habit of the unwarranted, bastard
sequel, as if all the critiques of “The Gay
Dombeys” had not virtually said what I
have said above. One (or all) of three de-
sires puts a man to writing: money, fame
or the impulse of expression. In Johnston’s
case the first can be ruled out; there remains
a curious combination of the other two,
each frustrating the other. True fame is
impossible on the coat-tails of another man :
and true artistic expression is impossible
for the same reason. “Dombey and Son”
is finished. Dickens finished it. and only
he can write its sequel—if the “lonely, un-
lettered man of genius” could be guilty of
that aftermath of climax.
Many things which do not appear in a
book go to the writing of it. I mgy be as
close as I think I am to the atmosphere of
Dickens and his beloved grotesques and cari-
catures, but I cannot carry one Dickens
story on for one paragraph, whether I leave
out 30 years or 300 between his finish and
my pen.’ Naturally, I can’t; I don’t know
the things that are unwritten in the book,
and that are necessary for my characterisa-
tion of the sons and daughters of the people
in the book. That is one of a multitude of
necessary things in my equipment for a
Dickens or a Charles Garvice sequel. Com-
ing closer to the job, I expect I should find
that the mind of Dickens or Charles Gar-
vice was my first *and last essential pos-
session for the feat.
Similarly, Shaw has made his job of the
tragic dilemma of “Mrs. Warren’s Profes-
sion.” Literarily, Mrs. Warren and her
daughter and Ilonoria Fraser have ceased
to be. They have served Shaw’s good pur-
pose of writing an excellent play, and that
is the end of them. The lives of Vivie War-
ren and Honoria Fraser carried on by Shaw
might be interesting as a stunt, but liter-
arily I think it would be valueless. In any
case, whether Shaw wrote it in holy matri-
mony or Johnston on the wrong of the
blanket, the result must be a dreary exten-
sion of climax.
HILARY LOFTING
Better Fiction and Less Ink
The matter of the long-winded novel was
recently discussed in reference to the pub-
lisher’s demand for quantity. I want to put
in a plea for shorter novels that take a
longer time to write.
In the days when some of the vast
romances were written the few people who
bought books had a lot of time and wanted
their fiction in masses. Quality was far
less important than quantity; and their
favorite authors gave them words without
stint. In the days of Dickens a new and
larger public with very little education and
an immense thirst for amusement bought
their novels in parts and devoured them with
tremendous eagerness. That set up a
tradition; and though the average novel is
only half the length it was a few years ago,
it is still far too long for its matter. The
educated world to-day is busy ; it has _ too
much to choose from in fiction ; it is anxious
to skip the padding of the book, and finds
the process difficult and irritating.
The vogue which play-reading has gained
in recent years is an indication of the feel-
ing of some of the best readers. Thirty
years ago single plays were rarely published
even when they had high literary qualities
and had made a big hit; now hosts of
plays appear every year, some of them never
intended for the stage at all. In fact, a
play is very ofteft a novel just as it ought
to be if all the padding were taken out.
There is probably not one feature of the
novel which cannot be served up in dramatic
form with truer literary effect. The
thoughts of the people are best developed by
what they say; and even as much natural
description of scenery and seasons and the
weather as the yarn will honestly hold can
be put in the mouths of the speakers. Yet
a three-act play is only equal in printed
space to three big chapters of a novel. Long
ago Kipling tried in “The Gadsbys” to
work out the full life-tale of a man and
woman in dialogue. The result was remark-
ably good, but it was not particularly good
for Kipling’s special public. “The Gadsbys,
however, is not a play. The dialogue goes
on through scenes that shift from place to
place, but there is all the necessary dramatic
condensation.
From a reading point of view there are
probably some advantages in using the nar-
rative method; but surely the same-material
when used in that way need not occupy more
than three times the space used by the
dramatist. One thing is certain: the novel
will kill itself if it goes on as at present.
(Continued on page 24.)


Vi
a
INTERESTING
POULTRY
VALUES FOR
FARMERS.
-~I_CrPHCEi>-^NCUBATDH~F® r ~| =J~=
Superior Incubators.
Superior Incubators, as illustrated above, made
by the famous Cyphers Co., well built, well
insulated, and up to the high Cyphers stan-
dard. Boiler and tubular tank of heavy
copper. It can be relied upon for entirely
satisfactory results.
65-egg capacity . . . . £7/7/6
130-egg capacity . , . .£lO/12/6
The first step in profitable
poultry culture —whether
taken up as a business or a
hobby—is to possess one-
self of a reliable and
economical incubator. Call
and inspect the assortment
at Anthony Horderns’.
Our expert will demon-
strate the mechanical
advantages of the various
makes.
Write for the Poultry
Catalogue. It will be sent
Post Free.
Reliable Hatchers.
The Reliable Hatcher (illustrated) is
a circular machine, made entirely of
metal, and is safe and dependable. A
thermometer is sent with each
Hatcher.
15 Eggs 15/-
25 Eggs 22/6
50 Eggs 45/-
Brooder, for 15 or 25 chick size 16/6
The Reliable Hatcher can be sent by
post anywhere in Australia, as under:
15 Eggs size, in N.S.W 2/3
Outside N.S.W 4/2
25 Eggs size, in N.S.W 2/9
Outside N.S.W 5/2
M. 1.8. Poultry Foods
at Anthony Horderns’
Experiments in modern, scientific feeding of Poultry have proved that a
properly-balanced diet of meat and cereal foods considerably increases egg-
production -and improves the stamina of the birds. Anthony Horderns’ have
accepted the agency for the Metropolitan Meat Industry Board's foods, which
are 100 per cent, animal matter, and of the highest quality obtainable.
Prices of Poultry Foods:
NOT ILLUSTRATED.
Columbia Incubators.
The Columbia is a well-tried hot-air
machine that also hatches well.
140-egg capacity . . . . £9/12/6
250-egg capacity . . . .£ll/10/-
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
of Poultry Supplies and Requisites. It
will be sent post free, and will prove of
interest and helpful value to everyone
interested in poultry culture.
A big
selection
of well-
designed
Chicken
Coops,
Grist
Mills,
etc.
1!
• BESS
mm?
Green
Bone and
Clover
Cutters
and
other
aids to
egg-
producing.
The Enterprise Shell and Com Mill 70/-
These mills are especially adapted for grinding
Shells, Corn, Grain, Chicken Feed, etc. One of
these Mills will soon pay for itself. Will not cut
Green Bone.
“Rock Island” Mills .... Nos. 2 3
18/6 37/6 55/-
POULTRY REQUISITES,
FOURTH FLOOR, GEORGE STREET.
New Buffalo Incubators.
New Buffalo Incubators are another
Cyphers triumph. They are sub-
stantial and well insulated —and
dependable hatchers, too.
No. 0— 60-egg capacity £8
No. 1 1 20-egg capacity £lO/15/-
No. 2—240-egg capacity £l5/5/-
No. 3—360-egg capacity £l9/18/6
T STANDARD 5= ,
ft
—_Jsf*
F
P
American Standard Incubator.
Approximate capacity 70 120 200 eggs
Weight packed .. 100 130 205 lb.
Cubic feet .. 8 12 20
Floor space .. .. 30 x2l 34 x2G 44 x 34 in.
£lO/12/6, £l3/10/-, £l9/5/-
Full directions, Tester and Thermometer with each
Incubator.
This machine is fitted with a fire- and
smoke-proof heater, both very essential
points. The lamp font is made with the
join on the top—result, no leaking. The
two bottom' diaphragms are covered
with canvas, and are removable for clean-
ing, etc.
The American Standard system combines
perfect ventilation and perfect heating.
It gives the eggs that natural warmth that
makes the perfect chicken.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
The House of Economy BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


1111 « 1 1 >
mi lira
n
Am*
m
V
x
? r
mini i!
r
HfIUIUUUWI
d
MMimMllNliin
|l| | | HWiuMU'titHH
4|
Ml 5
r;
'in j
’mini
P«
MHUwitM'ii
II' 1 jl
'" .III 1 '
ft ZS WiilKll
m
UJ (
III"
dll'
W
m
m
>i
«»k
MW
For Tobies eic.
lor Hotel-Bars
For Stair-rails
For Yachts etc
—best for every general purpose because
impervious to the action of everything
that usually affects a varnished surface.
Hot water, for instance, which will make
ordinary varnish turn white, has no
effect on BERGER’S “NEVAMAR.”
Rain-water cannot injure its surface;
acids and alcohol leave no mark upon it.
Therefore it is the ideal finish for
interior and exterior woodwork; for
Cafe-furniture, Table-tops, Stair-rails,
and the Cabins of Yachts and Boats.
Keep a tin of “NEVAMAR” handy and
touch up any surface which water or
acid has affected. It is easily applied.
Manufactured at Rhodes, N.S.W., by
LEWIS BERGER & SONS (Aust.), Ltd.
Offices : 16-18 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Founded at London 1760.
There is a Berger Agent close handy. Write to the
manufacturers if you cannot obtain supplies.
Berger’s
NEVAMAR
9
I


dsf
For Biliousness
When your tongue is coated all
over with a whitish-yellow color
and your breath is bad, if you have
constipation and headaches, the
chances are you are bilious. Your
liver needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate the
trouble. Gentle assistance is what
nature needs. Pinkettes, the little
pink laxative pills, meet the require-
ments admirably.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Or. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
• —your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
«:
m
mi*
m
m
m
376
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores in Aus-
tralia. and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genqine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
CELEBRATED
WL 3
m
The Bapid Cure tor Corut.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young:—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure— ■
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street
Perth, W.A. r j
€S>
A Morocco
Envelope Bag
with the Charm
of Novelty.
Its folds, its inside purse and mirror,
flap pocket on the back, and dainty silk
lining make this a bag which appeals to
women of taste. 21/
Mention X6l when ordering. Tost free
throughout Australia from
The American Bag Stores Ltd.
Comer King and Pitt Streets;
Strand Arcade, Pitt Street;
Sydney Arcade, George Street,
Sydney.
%
im
v->
C/iGN o/jmvict:
□
0L47
NOT an Experiment!
The Australian Wool Clip is not a thing tc be ex-
perimented with. It was with the fullest recognition
of that fact, and only after years of exhaustive tests,
that “Vallo”—an Arsenical Dip of the highest quality—
was placed on the market with a definite pledge to
the Government of its equality to the best Dip ever
offered the Australian Woolgrower.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is an ideal realised. The genuine confidence and
enthusiasm with which it is now being used all over
the Commonwealth is sound evidence that “Vallo” is
a Perfect Dip. When will your flock start enjoying
its effectiveness, its long-lasting protection? NOW?
Mt Stores Sett “VALLO"
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO*
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY - BRISBANE
36
The Aristocrat of the Pipe world.
S 3
:
&
m
The thoroughly seasoned
and matured French briar-
wood from which it is
made, the perfection of the
workmanship and finish
are the reasons why so
many men buy a G B D.
It is the cool, sweet
smoke that results from
these qualities that makes
GB D the final choice of
those who have long
sought “the perfect pipe.”
London-made.
Many popular shapes. On sale everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song in the Hills.
To-day my heart’s a mountain spring
As clear as diamond, rippling cool,
And if I ask for anything
Beyond the hour, I’m worse than fool.
Great shining clouds unfold on high,
Like one enormous flower whose stem
Is lost beyond the utmost sky.
My spirit’s leaves unfold with them,
Till its last petal is uncurled
And trustfully it lifts them up:
Then all the beauty of the world
Flows to these small flowers’ waiting
cup.
llow should I ask for anything
Beyond this swift and simple hour?
To-day my heart’s a mountain spring,
My spirit is a wayside flower.
n.s.w,
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.
Delusion.
We had exhausted every human theme.
Grown somewhat tired, “Give us the
End,” we said, .
“The unsolved, riddle of this rhythmic
dream,
And let us chant it to the speechless dead.
Boldly at first, then cautiously, we crept
To the chasm’s edge, gazing awhile with
fear ,
At the vast space. Then hand m hand we
leapt
Into the upward wind. Year followed
year.
And when the vivid dawn found fuller birth
We rose and watched our bodies as they
lay
Face-down and senseless in the slimy earth,
Hand clasped in hand among the yellow
, clay.
And so we came upon the cliff again,
Powerless to leap again—bereft of breath,
Nothing to question, nowhere to explore;
Tricked by the treacherous robbery of
death.
Then as we walked away we knew the last
Great riddle was solved, the paltriest
answer given,
And fear and power and pain had softly
passed
To leave us envying in an empty heaven.
n.s.w.
Leon LEON GELLERT.
Sonnet—The Poppy.
I came and sat beside a broken cross
Between a long-parched meadow and the
sea.
Shame sat beside me—shame and bitter loss
Garbed in the tireless ache of memory.
I know not if a Christ had suffered there.
The wood was splintered, but the nails
remained —•
One upright post and one arm pointing bare
Into the sunset. Little winds complained
In the dry grasses; but a poppy blazed
In royal splendor of its crimson dress,
Dancing its bloom to death the while I
gazed—■
A joy that, heedless, held forgetfulness...
I wonder if the Christ, hung there to bleed,
Let down one hand to plant a poppy seed.
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Home!
“Come in, good soul, to the fire,” they said,
“To the quiet hearth and the lavendered bed.”
I heard the wind in the storm-tossed tree,
And I cried, “The night, ah! the night
for me!”
“You have travelled far and the world is old.
You have journeyed long and the tale is told.
Come in, poor soul.” But I turned away.
Could a dreamer sleep? Could a wanderer
stay?
For the night is old and the world is young,
And their life at best is a song that’s sung,
Who sit and talk by the bright, red fire,
And sleep brown sleep to their heart’s desire.
But all the road is a new, new thing,
And the sky and the sea have a dream to
sing,
When earth and air wherever you roam
Cry, “Home, home, home, home, home!”
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Violets on a Ledger.
Where figures stiffly garrison each page,
Lies on the open book the scented spoil,
Purple and perfumed, as some royal dream
Lurks in a brain that seems the slave of
toil!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORRESST.
My Secret.
I did not know I loved you till love blazed,
As spark on tinder springs to instant light,
When in your hand you held my hand that
night,
And, knowing all you -were to me, I gazed
Into your eyes in ecstasy, amazed
The world could hold such heavenly delight,
And felt our wakened souls meet and unite,
Then from Love’s flame shrink quivering and
dazed.
Your eyes held mine a moment, but I dared
Not let* you know the thoughts conceived in
me,
For it was better that you should not guess;
If you had known my latent passion flared
Forth at the working of Love’s alchemy
Could I have faced again life’s emutiness?
VICTORIA.
A. B. C.


l
/
1
0
FRUITS
f?
£
<3°
A D. F.A.
M i tl oU^g
?A
<
f>
p a .
7-
A
i
m
&V%'.lt
CORRANTSj
/<«
£>»A./
A
K
m
-cr
«
u
ty
tcS
W, B. Chaffcy's Dream Fulfilled.
YEARS ago W. B. Chaffey, the founder of the Sunraysed
Settlements, prophesied that Australia would one day
produce all its dried fruits. To-day that is true; and the fine
thing is that Sunraysed Dried Fruits are equal to the best
grown elsewhere. Further, the Settlements have provided that
toothsome delicacy the Little Normey, on sale all over Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, as the finest thing in the way of
confection for young and old.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post, as a Newspaper.
Von. 41.—N0. 2110.
THURSDAY. JULY 22, 1920.
Price 9d.
OYSTEROPOULIS’S BUSY MORNING.
“A Greek official message gives details of further victories over the Turks. The enemy is reported to be completely disorganised.”
“Er—l came about an olive-branch”—
“Not-a time for you to-day. Come-a round when I finish this-a job.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
MusgTave and- McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
44 Kerk Street. Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4)1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 100 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 1849
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, 4% n d Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago ; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. lOoz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet- — otherwise: Boz., ljd.; Sioz. to lOoz
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3 id.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 22, 1920.
DISEASES, RESPECTABLE AND
OTHERWISE.
In Manly (N.S.W.) a few days ago a bull-
dog attacked a pair of horses and was
promptly destroyed. Sydney Telegraph
remarked next morning that “in a country
in which hydrophobia is present the bull-
dog’s brain would be sent to the nearest
Pasteur Institute, so that search could be
made for the dreaded germ associated with
canine rabies.” And the paper concluded :
“The necessity for eternal vigilance in our
quarantine becomes apparent, if our im-
munity is to endure.” All very true.
Hydrophobia is one of the oldest-known
diseases (Xenophon had witnessed cases)
and one of the most horrifying in its inci-
dence. Until about quarter of a century ago
it existed in practically every country that
owned members of the great dog tribe. The
civilised world then determined to exter-
minate it. In England, where the dog-
wealth per head of the population is about
double that of any other country, a drastic
muzzling law was passed a few years after
Pasteur made his famous discovery, and
.. long quarantine period was fixed for im-
ported dogs. By 1900 the disease, which had
been killing the inhabitants of Britain for
centuries before the English Conquest, was
to all intents and purposes extinct. In the
10 years which followed there were only two
deaths from it. During the past decade
there have been none. As late as the 18th
century an adult without small-pox scars
was the exception rather than the rule, and
hundreds of thousands of children died of
the disease every year. Cholera, malaria
and typhus have been banished from the
sanitary countries. Enteric gots its quietus
during the war. The bacteriologists are now
after the influenza germ, and thousands of
pounds sterling have been allocated to cancer
research, the workers in both fields being
inspired by the certainty that if they can
find means of cure their Governments will
quickly provide ways of enforcing them.
Every form of disease is as ruthlessly at-
tacked as the suspected Manly bulldog was
the other day—bar one. And it is a de-
mented fact that the set of complaints which
our administrations, though not our medical
men, disregard are the parent of fully half
the troubles to which mankind is still heir.
• • • *
Syphilis is as old as hydrophobia. It
didn’t develop into the pestilence which it
now is till shortly after the French in-
vasion of Naples under Charles VIII. in
the 15th century. But Solomon knew it;
and there is little doubt that most of the
“lepers” of the eai-ly Feudal period were
syphilitics. Syphilis, like hydrophobia, is
acquired by inoculation. Hydrophobia kills
more quickly: on the other hand, with the
death of each of its victims there is an end
of the horror so far as that case is con-
cerned. It does not produce an intermin-
able slaughter of the innocents. How dif-
ferent are the effects of the other affliction!
Blindness amongst children is due in 34
per cent, of cases to inherited syphilis, and
in 24.4 per cent, to gonorrhoea. Syphilis
predisposes to cancer and to consumption.
Dr. Macalister, honorary physician of the
Liverpool (Eng.) Children’s Hospital, said
recently in an addi-ess to the Liverpool
Medical Institution:—
Syphilis is responsible for 42 per cent, of the
abortions; and upwards of 60 per cent, of the off-
spring of syphilitics die before or shortly after birth.
Fortunate indeed that they do die, when we think
of the fact that of those who survive a considerable
proportion present the very organic and degenerative
defects which afflict the unfortunate creatures who
require segregation.
Without the aid of syphilis half of Aus-
tralia’s lunatic-asylums would be empty;
for all general paralytics and about 60 per
cent, of congenital imbeciles owe their con-
dition to this disease. If we set down in
one column the pain and shame, the ruined
lives and homes, and the public expense
involved in the upkeep of hospitals and
asylums which are to-day the direct out-
come of venereal disease, and in another
column placed the damage done at any
period of the world’s history by hydrophobia,
a comparison of the results would look
ridiculous. Yet the master-calamity which
is still with us is as avoidable as the minor
affair which has been banished. Venereal
disease is protected in a sense by its own
loathsomeness. Mention of it is tabooed
amongst the very classes which it ravages
most—the conventional and the genteel. No
rich man leaves a legacy to a Lock' ward
or a V.D. clinic. There is plenty of money
forthcoming for the ordinary sanatoria, but
the philanthropists would look coldly indeed
on anyone who suggested that they should
associate their names with (say) a home
of refuge for persons in the final stages
of venereal disease. There is no complaint
about _ which more is known, and there is
none in regard to which less is done.
* * * *
Imagine what would happen if one case
of hydrophobia made its appearance in Aus-
tralia. The panic that followed the influ-
enza outbreak gives a reliable line. The
daily press would print columns on the sub-
ject. Dogs would be exterminated by the
hundred; muzzling would be made compul-
sory for years; the importation of dogs
would be barred and Pasteur Institutes
created regardless of cost. And if the doc-
tors asked for more it would be eagerly
given to them by the Governments, as hap-
pened when the Australian States set them-
selves to deal with leprosy and the bubonic
plague. Some of the moves made might
be harsh, wrong, stupid, even illegal, but
in the final upshot the workers in the cause
would get there. No disease for which a
cure exists can stand for long against a
civilised people who are unitedly determined
to oust it. And that is exactly where
venereal disease scores most heav.ily. No
two sections of the community feel the same
way on the subject. The ultra-religious be-
lieve in leaving it alone altogether as a
manifestation of God’s annoyance at sin—
though about half its victims are too young
to be sinnei's. Others advocate an educative
campaign—letters in the papers, plays, pub-
lic'addresses and so on —though if a poison-
ous drain was causing diphtlieria in their
neighborhood they would not be satisfied
witlx academic measures of the sort. Still
another section believes in an elaborate sys-
tem of half-measures. It opposes prophy-
lactics (which gave such wonderful results
in France), but approves of medical atten-
tion after the disease has been contracted;
agrees with the provision of clinics, but re-
gards compulsory notification as an inter-
ference with the liberty of the subject;
admits that unlicensed prostitution is to
blame for an enormous percentage of V.D.,
but recoils at the suggestion that prostitutes
should be licensed —which is about as rea-
sonable as expecting to scotch an out-
break of hydrophobia by only muzzling the
dogs after they have gone mad. And, finally,
there is the section which calls for the same
whole-hearted, cold-blooded and united
assault upon this scourge as has proved effec-
tive in the case of others. An assault, that
is, into which neither religious prejudice nor
any form of sentimentalism shall be allowed
to enter. If the doctors, with years of
experience of this problem gained in the
Army in Egypt, England and Flanders, are
ever given a free run they may make many
mistakes. They may interfere with liberty,
scandalise churchgoei’S, cause the expendi-
ture of lai’ge sums of money, and create, like
so many other pioneers, an impression that
they and their country have gone mad;
and, with it all, it may be years before they
are able to show definite results. But it is
as certain that, given the opportunities, they
will show results as it is that under our
present laissez-faire system there can be
none. How many more lunatics, cripples
and monsters are we to manufacture before
the community awakes to the truth?
“GOING HEADLONG TO BANK-
RUPTCY!”
“Taxes are extremely unpopular, but I do not know
that loans are not more burdensome. It is a ques-
tion whether we should not say that we must not
live on borrowed money, but must be prepared to
pay for what we get. Any other course means that
the State is going headlong to bankruptcy .lt is a
question for us whether we are wise in allowing
our primary products to be speculated in and
profiteered in by people of other countries, and then
for us to go to the other countries and pay heavy
rates of interest for the money which has been made
out of our primary products.”— N.S.W. Minister
Mutch at the Shires Conference, Sydney.
If this really means anything at all, then
the chameleon Government of Janus Storey
is entering already on its third phase. Its
first or election aspect was that of the stu-
pendous and unconquerable builder. Solo-
mon and Nebuchadnezzar, and Baron
Haussmann who rebuilt Paris, and Fred-
erick who built Potsdam, and Cain who
built the city of Enoch-in-Nod didn’t make a
team like these absolutely unpractised ex-
perimenters in a State of 2,000,000 people.
The least of their promises, made by Storey
in person, was to immediately get to work
on all unfinished railways and on all rail-
ways authorised but not started; to build
an indefinite number of “light” lines and the
Sydney underground railway, and to elec-
trify the suburban lines; also to supply
new ports, new manufacturing centres, State
ferries and steamship lines, enough land for
settlers of all classes and for every man a
house. The Government’s activities would
“only be limited by the supply of labor.” It
was to be the first and only Government to
which the supply of money didn’t matter.
There had been wonderfully impudent .pros-
pectuses in Australia before, but the pros-
pectus of John Storey’s salted brass-mine
stood alone.
* * * *
Having sold its gold-brick successfully on
election day the new combination fell almost
on the instant into a condition of cold doubt.
It was shocked at the sudden discovery of
the disorder of the finances, though the dis-
order is published monthly and in full, so
it should have known all about the situation
when it was guaranteeing a new heaven and
a new earth, with a fresh sheol if desired.
It was disappointed at the condition of the
loan market, which was a needless and super-
ficial emotion, because the fact that the
Commonwealth was being dunned by the
British Government for an SJ-million instal-
ment of the huge sum due for the pay of
our troops in Europe, and was in desperate
straits to find the amount, had made it plain
before election day that there was very
little left of the London loan boom, though
our own paper money, good only in this
country, might still be borrowed locally in
moderate amounts at high rates. Now, be-
fore it has even faced Parliament with its
programme, the Ministry announces, unless
Mr. Mutch is to be repudiated, that the
loan policy, if persisted in, must send the
State headlong to bankruptcy. It stands for
the same party which took office in 1910
with the nearest approach to an anti-
borrowing policy that the State had ever
seen, and which “ratted” or “scabbed” so
violently that it had added some 38 or 40
millions to the debt by the time it lost its
job in 1916. It was a reform Ministry
which was twice as unreformed as the worst of
its predecessors, and it freely admitted that
it would have been worse still but for the
war, which interfered with its course of pro-
fligacy. It has shown no sign of repentance
until now, when Minister Mutch declares
that any policy save that of paying with our
own money for “what we get” is a headlong
rush to bankruptcy. And that, of course,
means that the policy which the party pur-
sued when in office from 1910 to 1916, and
which it resumed as soon as it got back to
office a little while ago, is the policy of fools
or scoundrels. But it is a pity that the pro-
nouncement wasn’t made before instead of
after the flotation of the £2,500,000 61 per
cent, loan in London which was so near to
being blank disaster, and the £2,000.000
paper-money loan in Sydney. It is still
more a pity that Mr. Mutch’s sane view
wasn’t presented as the reasoned and con-
sidered policy of the party before the elec-
tion instead of the painted riot that was
put forward, because then the Ministry
would not have been open, as it is, to a
charge of having obtained office by false
pretences. And if the great change which
the Minister for Education hints qt is really
coming it is a pity that there isn’t a better
man at the wheel and . a different crew on
deck. Any man or child or even dog can
leave off the loan-habit if loans can’t be
got. but it will require a high-class financier
and political economist to ijet over the in-
evitable change without disaster. On its
programme and its record the Storey-
Dooley crowd looks about as unfit for that
job as a bird-of-paradise is for heavy cart-
haulage.
•S * * *
In still another respect the N. S. Wales
Minister for Education threw a sizable brick
at the traditions of his party. He set forth
that our great profiteers are not here ready
to hand. Thanks to the policy of exporting
cheap raw materials to be made up abroad,
for the great gain of outside workers and
capitalists, and of buying back finished
goods at huge cost and borrowing abroad to
pay for them, our great profiteers are out
of our jurisdiction. They can be suppressed
by a laborious, patient, hard-working pro-
cess of building up Australian industries
so that we can do without Coats, the
thread man, and Inchcape, the ship
man, and the Bethlehem Steel Co. and
their kind; but mere shouts and eloquence
and programmes and elections and de-
nunciations are not the slightest use.
It is one of Australia’s diseased and care-
fully-fostered vanities that it is systemati-
cally robbed, like the people of England or
the United States, by its own great mono-
polists—its railway kings, like Gould ; its
oil magnates, like Rockefeller ; its steel
potentates, like Frick —the kind who die or
retire with something like £100,000,000; its
vast cotton and linen and silk and woollen
manufacturers; its thread people, like
Coats, with nearly £4,000,000 a year profit;
its great shipowners, with vessels in every
sea ; its international financiers, who fish in
the troubled waters of bankrupt kingdoms;
its ducal landowners and the like. It isn’t.
These people don’t grow in a land of paper
money and debts. Barring some importers
who don’t really belong to us Australia
hasn’t raised a decent-sized and really pic-
turesque profiteer. The alleged prevalence
of that person serves the turn of incapable,
lazy and non-constructive politicians. He
is their personal devil. He helps to ex-
plain away defeats. Votes are secured by
promising to slay the big myth at sight.
And a specimen really was caught the other
day—not Inchcape nor Rockefeller, but
a little corner store that had charged a
ha’penny too much for something. It was
satisfactory so far as it went; but, as
Minister Mutch hinted, these retail short-
range devices don’t go very far.
AUSTRALIANISM FOR THE
AUSTRALIANS.
According to the latest computation Aus-
tralia has five and a quarter million people,
of whom two and a quarter millions live in
six coastal cities. And about two millions of
the two and a quarter are undergoing a pro-
cess of Americanisation. They read Ameri-
can books and magazines, chew American
gum and wear American clothing. They
sing American songs, dance American rags
and import large quantities of American
music-hall performers to show them how to
do it. 1 They take an excessive interest in
the deeds of American bruisers. Above all,
they are munificent and credulous patrons
of American moving-pictures. In reality,
the Americans are poor film-actors com-
pared with the more emotional and mobile-
featured Latin races, particularly the
Italians and French, but thanks to the pic-
ture combine and its press-agents Australia
is flooded with the gaudy productions of
American “studios,” and it crowds the bio-
graph theatres to see self-conscious and flat-
chested American actresses, who get far
more adulation than is good for them, trail-
ing their robes through pretentious traves-
ties of art and life. There is an occasional
protest against this cult of Americanism,
especially when some whooping Yankee war-
picture happens to meet a crowd consisting
largely of returned Diggers, but the rising
generation has got it bad.
» ♦ * *
So great is the vogue of the American
novel and moving-picture that the youth
of urban Australia knows more about
outback life in the U.S.A. than it does
about outback life in the Commonwealth.
It is certainly more familiar with the
romantic side of Western America, as seen
through the media of fiction and motion-
photography, than it is with the romantic
side of, say, Westralia. Its mind is so
crowded with impressions of American
scenery and the phantasmagoria of the film
that there is no room for the imagery of its
own country. There are hundreds of young
Australians who could tell in a moment the
book from which the subjoined description
was taken and the part of the world to which
it refers: —
Venters led his companion to a shady bower and
showed hirp Amber Spring. It was a magnificent
outburst of clear amber water pouring from a dark,
stone-lined hole. This spring was the most beauti-
ful and remarkable known to the upland riders.
The spring gushed forth in a swirling torrent and
leaped, down joyously to make its swift way along a
willow-skirted channel. Moss and fern and lilies
overhung its green banks. Except for the rough-
hewn stones that held and directed the water, this
willow thicket and glade had beeil left as Nature
made it.
Below were artificial lakes, three in number, one
above the other in banks of raised earth; and
round about them rose the lofty, green-foliaged shafts
of poplar-trees. Ducks dotted the glassy surface cf
the lakes; a blue heron stood motionless on a water-
gate; kingfishers darted with shrieking fright along
the shady banks; a white hawk sailed above; and
from the trees and shrubs came the song of robins
and cat-birds. It was all in strange contrast to
the endless slopes of lonely sage and the wild rock
environs beyond.
It was written by Zane Grey in his Utah
novel, “Riders of the Purple Sage,” but
who wouldn’t rather view the original of
the following rugged pen-picture, and what
city-bred fox-trotter or “film-fan” could give
you its address ? —•
The road passes through two shallow but swiftly-
flowing streams in a forest of trees and bulrushes.
Two and a half miles from the station you come to
Deep Reach. It is two miles long, 200 yards wide,
and 68 feet deep. Through summer and winter,
wet and dry seasons alike, a volume of water esti-
mated at 25,000,000 gallons a day flows out of it.
No native can be persuaded to enter it. Their theory
is that centuries ago the reach was a great, dry
cavern and a meeting-place. In it they were holding
a corroboree when suddenly there was a fearful noise,
the ground opened, and the watef flowed in, drowning
most of the natives. Now they fear that if they
enter the pool the spirits of the dead will seize them
and drag them down. The theory of the wiser
white man is that the reach is merely the river
come to the surface from some subterranean passage.
Fish life is abundant and the water is fresh at all
times of the year.
Close to the homestead is another pool, probably of
similar origin. It is a quarter of a mile long, 80
yards wide, and 30ft. deep at its deepest part. Its
discharge is estimated at 15,000,000 gallons per day
—summer and winter, dry season or wet. From ths
pool flow si-x streams varying in width from one to
three yards, and in depth from nine to 18 inches.
All along the banks of these streams there is
rich black soil. Couch-grass grows in wonderful pro-
fusion. Bananas are in abundance, and in the
garden—which has been cultivated summer and winter
for 38 years—vegetables flourish amazingly. In the
pool and the streams are water-lilies of many colors
and great beauty. The streams lose themselves m
the earth about 12 miles from .the homestead, and an
along their course is this rich black soil. And the
bird life is as rich and varied as the vegetation-
blue doves and crested bronzewing pigeons; scarlet
wings and fire-finches and Java sparrows; galahs
and cockatoos, white and black; brolgas and peli-
cans and bustards, most graceful of large birds; blue
cranes and many descriptions of ducks, and, some-
times, black swans, although the swan’s home is i
the South.
That was the spectacle recently vouch-
safed to a party of Cockney tourists from
Perth (W.A.) ; it is to be seen on the
Fortescue River, in North-West Groper-
land, 75 miles from Roebourne.
* * *
The bush has scenes innumerable of
equal beauty, but, bemused with American
fiction of the reeled and written order, the
youth of the Big Cities is unaware of it.
There is romance a-plenty in Outback Aus-
tralia, especially the northern part of it.
but young Australia has contracted the
habit of looking to America for its
romance, and hasn’t time to consider the
superior attractions of its own country.
Moreover, the songs it sings are mostly
about Alabama and Tennessee, and its
fashionable dances come to it from nigger-


shanties on the Mississipi, with Barbary
Coast trimmings, and it is unpleasantly
addicted to foolish ejaculations like “Sure!”
and “Gee!” and there are other respects
in which it contrives to give a cheap and
depressing imitation of the cheapest sort
of Yank. America is a great country, but,
after all, it is a foreign country, and regard
for foreign countries can be overdone. To
think too much of a foreign country is to
think too little of one’s own. And a people
that relies upon another people to write
its books, songs and periodicals and make
its moving-pictures pays a poor compliment
to itself.
WHEN THE WORLD WENT DRY.
England was the first to follow the example
set by the U.S.A. The result of the Presi-
dential election had hardly established the
power of the anti-liquor forces when the
whole Prohibition personnel of the Republic
embarked for London. Their headquarters
were the Hotel Carlton, with subsidiary
depots at Claridge’s, the Savoy, the Hotel
Cecil and the Piccadilly, all of which were
taken over holus-bolus for the use of the
different staffs. Before the whirlwind cam-
paign which followed the forces of drink
went down with hardly a struggle. In the
course of one week-end 56 expert saloon-
smashers (at £lOOO a year apiece) destroyed
1700 bars in the southern counties alone.
r lhe sob-stuff specialists got wonderful
results at monster mothers’ meetings every-
where. But most notable of all were the
successes gained by the spell-binders, male
and female. Their business was to convince
the women and the drapers that less liquor
would mean more clothes. They drew im-
mense incomes, but they earned the money.
Simultaneously a bombardment was begun
in the oversea dominions; and preparations
were made for an attack on the continent
of Europe. Canada proved an easy proposi-
tion, and Australia and Maoriland soon fell
into line. Contrary to expectation, France
and Italy offered little resistance. With
hundreds of thousands of their most virile
men either killed or mentally affected, the
way was open to the women to act; and
they did so. The campaign over the rest
of Europe was, in the words of General
llibam K. Spkagge, Chief Director of Stra-
tegy, “a landslide.”
One nation alone stood out —Ireland. It
was sufficient reason that the other nations
had stood in.
The new policy was less ruinous to begin
with than the fuglemen of liquor had fore-
*n France, for example, though
4,000,000 acres under vines went out of
cultivation, resulting in an annual loss of,
roughly, _ 1,700,000,000 francs, yet there
was an immense increase in the production
of silk, laces, ribbons; hosiery and hats ; and
a tremendous trade was created in a cheap
cocaine substitute for which there quickly
arose an unlimited demand, both at home
and abroad. The majority of France’s mil-
lion and a half winegrowers turned to this
new industry, _ the only objection to which
was that it killed most of those employed
in it.
One of those malcontent agitators whom
England has never failed to produce when
the nation’s so-called liberties have been at-
tacked in its own best interests, made his
appearance. He was a Manchester solici-
tors clerk named John Bliggs. He took
the point that, an Englishman’s home being
Ins castle, no one had a right to stop him
making drink in it. His pamphlet, “Every
Man His Own Distiller,” sold in millions.
Convicted of carrying his theories into prac-
tice, he was fined, and on his refusal to
pay, cast into prison. A mob rescued
him, and he was elected to Parliament.
Being debarred from taking his seat, he
made a test case of his original conviction.
Kex v. Bliggs went right up to the Privy
Council, which established that a pot-stiil
in a private residence differed in no respect
from a stove; that the making of alcohol
under such. conditions amounted to a culi-
nary operation ; and that, provided the results
were not sold for profit, the Crown had no
right to interfere. On the day that Bliggs
took his seat in the House the fumes of five
million privately-conducted stills ascended
to the English skies as though in sacrificial
celebration. The deaths that night from
alcoholic poisoning ran into several hun-
dreds, and 47 policemen were killed in
brawls with persons under the influence of
raw spirits.
At about this time the financial position
of the professional Prohibitionist became
acute. Hundreds who had been taught no
other trade or' calling were starving: they
were unfitted for real work, and the churches
and the stage, to which they naturally
turned in their extremity, spurned them.
More to give them employment than any-
thing else, a crusade was begun against
tobacco. Expert abolitionists flocked to the
old standard. For a brief period the van-
ished era of high . salaries, luxurious quar-
ters, frantic revival meetings and dis-
tracted traders reigned again. And then
tobacco fell. The Prohibition experts went
bsck to . penurious unemployment. The
world, with sullen rage in its heart, re-
sumed such of its old ways as were still
permitted to it.
Ireland had at last found, in the drink
question, an issue upon which all were as
one, irrespective of class, creed or politics.
A skirmishing party, which broke off from
the main Prohibition army shortly after the
°f the great English campaign,
.sailed for Dublin. Its members were met
by a thoroughly representative body, com-
prising. prominent Sinn Feiners, Unionists,
Dominion Home Rulers and Nationalists,
and cast into the Liffey. Those who escaped
death were put on board an outward-bound
steamer and warned not to return. They
didn’t.
t n e » an a rush of immigrants to
Ireland, which was as embarrassing as it
was unprecedented. The situation which
existed between 1846 and 1851, when a
quarter of a million Irishmen emigrated. ivas
more than reversed: within less than 12
months over a million attempted to get in,
and many succeeded. As the House of Com-
mons refused to pass an adequate Alien Immi-
gration Restriction Act. Irish patriots—Catho-
lic and Protestant. Unionist and Sinn Fein—
came together and devised a scheme for com-
bined action. It was arranged to picket every
port with National Volunteers, and allow in
only those who could produce proof that
they were (1) of Caucasian extraction on
both sides; (2) fit and well, physically and
mentally; (3) financially solvent; (4) un-
connected with any Prohibition organisation.
Youthful American millionaires jostled able-
bodied English dukes and French and
Spanish men of genius in the effort to enter
this earthly Paradise of the West. They
were listened to coldly, impartially, and
where their cases failed, in however small a
degree, they were flung back. Still, many
hundreds of thousands of rich men passed
the required tests, and land values soared
accordingly; while the national industries
prospered amazingly. Ireland had 5,200,000
inhabitants when the 1921 census was taken ;
three years later there were between 10 and
11 millions in the country, with more pour-
ing in at the rate of 250,000 monthly.
Far different was it on the other side of
the Irish Channel. The condition of Eng-
land, Scotland and Wales bore an odd re-
semblance to the condition of Ireland in
Palmerston’s day. Instead, however, of
being half-starved for the lack of potatoes,
the British were being half-poisoned by the
produce of potatoes. Their wealthiest and
most virile citizens streamed towards the set-
ting sun, as Irishmen had been doing since
the Penal Laws and the Rebellion of ’9S: the
only difference was that the Britishers didn’t
go so far. The famous dictum of Queen
Victoria’s Unionist Prime Minister was
paraphrased; and the saying “Britain’s
Right is Booze’s Wrong” sped up and down
the music-halls of England like a flame.
Muttering discontent was everywhere.
It was an embittered Scotch distiller who
first conceived the idea of plunging the Pro-
hibition weapon into the bosoms of its
warmest devotees. Dugald M'cFatl had
been deserted by his wife when the destruc-
tion of his business no longer enabled him
to meet her monstrous millinery bills. All
that remained to him was his organising
ability; and he used that to reassemble the
mighty Prohibition engine and direct it to
the ruin of the drapers. The battalions
which rushed to the now worn and tattered
emblem—a pure white flag with a cup of
tea and a bun emblazoned in the centre of
it—were indeed strangely compounded.
Drunks, morphinomaniacs. cocaine-sniffers
and other victims of the new regime marched
side by side with clergymen, clerks, soldiers
and the respectable salariat generally—men
whose one hope of evading financial ruin lay
in checking the clothes-drunkenness of their
female dependants. A Sumptuary Bill \vas
brought before the House of Commons,
rushed through in record time and fired on
to the Lords. Women were thereby pro-
hibited from possessing or designing or plot-
ting to possess more than one black bom-
bazine dress and hat (without garniture),
one pair of cotton stockings (white or
black), and one pair of Jemima boots.
The Revolution, in which, at immense cost
in blood and treasure, practically every re-
straint upon human liberty, wise or the
reverse, was temporarily overthrown, fol-
lowed a few weeks later.
But across the narrow strip of water that
divides Erin from the west coast of Eng-
land the Irish race pursued the profitable
tenor of its way in peace and amity. After
700 years of strife a solution of the Home
Rule question had at . length been discovered.
J. B. D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Diseased Person Named Smith
at Ballarat.
When last Federal election disentangled
itself after much counting the Hughes Min-
istry had, so far as the Lower House was
concerned, a reliable workable majority of
one. Subsequent proceedings revealed that
the member for Ballarat was that one, and
he had himself been elected by a majority of
one elector —13,569 against 13,568. Nobody
can tell who that elector might be. Pos-
sibly he was a badly-educated and diseased
person named Smith. But whoever he was
he made the Hughes Ministry as it then
stood. If he had voted the other, way some
big change (possibly a complete new set of
rulers, or possibly only a compromise) would
have been necessary. If the lonesome voter
who did all this could be found he ought to
be stuffed or preserved in spirits as evidence
against the Party system. As matters stand
one more than half the House of Represen-
tatives supplies the Government, it being
the House that really counts; and Smith,
the possibly objectionable voter at Ballarat,
decides which half. Thirty-eight make the
requisite majority, which isn’t many to select
eight Ministers from, especially when these
special drawbacks are taken into account: —
Not one was elected to fill a particular post
or because of his fitness for a particular portfolio.
No elector knew what portfolio he would get, or if
he would get any portfolio, or if any of the 38
would get a portfolio.
No applicant was called on to produce his diploma
in political economy to show that he had some
knowledge of public affairs. (An election suggests
a long street with some doctors in it but no brass
plates or red lamps showing. The patient selects
the house that, looks as if it contained a doctor, and
appoints the inmate to look after his health for
three years and operate if he thinks fit.)
No member, even if he becomes Prime Minister or
any other kind of Minister, is the choice of the
whole country. He is elected as a good representa-
tive for Smallbeerville and rules the country by
accident. If he uses the country’s resources hand-
somely in the interests of Smallbeerville he is re-
elected by Smallbeerville, and as long as that hap-
pens he can, with any luck, keep hold of the Party
machine.
The 38, not elected because of special capacity for
any office, divide the offices among themselves.
Their limited choice may be guided by fitness (such
of it as there is among the kind of men who are
willing to dwell amid the dusty waste places of
politics for so poor a chance) or by something else.
Even if the verdict of the person named
Smith at Ballarat —the Smith who made a
Government for all the Commonwealth—was
upset on appeal, the fact remains that the
Smith system isn’t the sort which produces
strong or able Ministries. The Prime Min-
ister ought rather to be elected openly by
the people, for a fixed term, like the Presi
dent of the United States, but without the
foolish U.S. system which requires pre-selec-
tion by a two-thirds majority in a Conven-
tion, whereby the candidates with most votes
are generally left at the finish, a nonentity
being chosen as a compromise. Then he
would be the Member for Australia and the
one man in the whole deranged caboodle who
was elected for his job and didn’t attain it
by a devious series of accidents and via
Smallbeerville. After that he might be
allowed to select his Ministers as he pleased,
provided that they were men outside Parlia-
ment, the reason being that about a million
adult males outside Parliament are more
numerous and give a wider choice than 111
inside. These matters being arranged, it
wouldn’t matter much what complaint Smith
had at Ballarat —especially if it wasn’t in-
fectious.
♦
The Judicial Discretion Which Isn’t
Required.
The Aegus was charmed with Premier
Lawson’s defence of the importing prin-
ciple as applied to State Governors. Indeed,
at the stage where he “described the advant-
ages of having an able and impartial Gov-
ernor, removed from our party warfare, to
exercise his judicial discretion in political
affairs,” the dear old lady could scarce for-
bear to cheer. This notion of hiring a
stranger to prevent us making asses of our-
selves is one of the last faint survivals of
the theory that nothing of real worth is to be
achieved except by one from abroad. The old-
time State Governors stood for two things:
(1) that knowledge and sagacity which
could only emanate from upper-class Eng-
land, and (2) the Royal Prerogative, which,
though dead in its country of origin, was
supposed to be necessary in the benighted
colonies. In Britain the Crown has long
since ceased to assert any control over poli-
tics. It is unimaginable, for example, that
the present King should refuse a dissolu-
tion to a Prime Minister, as has been done
repeatedly by his representatives in Aus-
tralia. The House of Commons would
rightly look on itself as something less than
the nation’s Parliament if it stood anything
of the sort. The Prerogative still exists in
the United Kingdom. It was used to im-
pose conscription on the nation. But it
has passed from the King to the people. The
Sovereign is advised by his Cabinet, and on
that advice he automatically acts. In Aus-
tralia’s early days there was no question
about the status of our Governors. They
were bear-leaders pure and simple. But as the
country progressed it began to take notice
of the poor mental equipment of most of
its overseas satraps. It became apparent
that many of them were not fitted to advise
on the conduct of a dog-fight. Simul-
taneously the national sentiment grew.
Shortly before the Great War Premier Solo-
mon, of Tasmania, was defeated by one
vote. He asked the Governor (Ellison-
Macartney) for a dissolution. The King
would not have been able to refuse it to
Asquith : his representative refused it to
Solomon. He went further. Sending for
Opposition-leader Earle, he insisted on a
general election; and, despite Earle’s pro-
test and a hostile resolution passed by Par-
liament with only one dissenting vote, a
general election there was. The dispute
was referred to Downing-street, and in a
despatch to the Tasmanian Governor the
Colonial Secretary definitely laid it down
that the Governor of a self-governing
dominion “must follow the advice of his
Ministers in respect to any question of in-
ternal politics.” That eminent constitution-
alist, Sidney Low, wrote at the time: —
It puts the coping-stone on the edifice of colonial
self-government, and marks the final phase in the
emancipation of the oversea States from external
control in the management of their domestic affairs.
Apparently neither Lawson nor the Argus
has heard of the episode. Yet such is the
position; and the meaning of it is that the
men we import to act as imitation kings
for us are just that and no more. They
have no right to “exercise judicial discre-
tion in political affairs.” Their business is
to carry out the will of the electors as
expressed through Parliament by their Min-
isterial advisers. And that being so it is
immaterial what their political opinions
may be, or whether they are needy peers or
Parliamentary failures or merely Australian
Judges of the calibre of Griffith, Knox
or Isaacs.
—_
One Man 16 or More Votes.
One way of buying political support is to
do, or at least attempt, big things for the
benefit of the community, but of nobody
more than anybody else. The tariff and the
transcontinental railway to develop the com-
mon property in the Northern Territory
are such things in Federal politics, and the
reduction of the debt is that sort of thing
everywhere. Another way, much followed
by small, log-rolling men whose minds are
divided into water-tight compartments, is to
buy up an aggressive church here and an
aggressive union there with special rights
which are the wrongs of weaker or less
organised people, and rule by means of this
accumulated corruption. In pursuance of
the latter policy it is proposed in N. S.
Wales to give the railway employees repre-
sentation on the management—to give them,
in fact, a Commissioner all to themselves.
Some ardent spirits demand the whole man-
agement, but the Storey - Government hasn’t
got to that yet. So, as far as concerns the
State’s biggest asset —if a thing built en-
tirely with money borrowed from private
capitalists is a State asset—the railway em-
ployee is to be a man with two votes, and
one of the two will be much bigger than it
looks. He will have his vote "in the ap-
pointment of Railway Commissioners as a
plain elector like anybody else, and he will
have another vote as a railway employee.
In other words, he is to be an Upper House
or a property voter, his job being his pro-
perty qualification. The community is reallv
divided into three sections. The first, a small
one, has a double interest in the railways.
It is represented by the local bondholder
who has lent money on rather rocky
security to build the lines and has that
separate interest, as well as his interest as
a taxpayer, who pays to keep the lines
solvent. He has one vote for his two
interests. Then there are the mass of
people who are neither railway servants
nor bondholders, but just taxpayers. They
also have one vote apiece. The hand-
ful of railway servants would have more.
(1) It has the regular citizen vote,
though the bulk of them belong to a class,
which pays very little taxation. (2) It.
would have a third (if they get the appoint-
ment of one Commissioner out of three) of
the voting power of the State in this con-
nection, which is the one of most import-
ance to the whole community. That would
mean giving 34,240 people one-third of
the power, while 1,100,000 divided the other
two-thirds, so that one railway man would
equal 16 other voters—have 16 votes, in
fact, and his citizen vote as well. (3) It would
have all the benefit and advantage of the pull
which a powerful union, capable of holding
up the country’s business, has with timid
and corrupt politicians. If this equalled
another vote the railway servant would have
18. Yet the railway servants are suspected of
no amazing or special intelligence. There
are engineers, builders and financiers galore
outside the service who kn#w 1000 times
more about railway management than the
average ticket-seller, porter or shunter. The
railway worker, taking Australia all over,
is in the favored position of getting the full
product of his labor, apart from the interest
bill, and often a great deal more. The aver-
age citizen not only pays for the use of the
lines, but pays taxes to make up the loss on
the lines. In countries like Britain and
the United States the men who put up the
money to build and equip the lines are
openly described as owners, and have (or
had till the war) the whole management.
The employee had grievances, as all railway
porters and kings have, and having no voice
in the management as a citizen and a voter
he often claimed that he should have a say
as a railway emplovee and be represented on
the management. But in Australia the man
who takes tickets on the railway has as
much voice in the control as the owner who
supplied £lOO,OOO at 3$ per cent, in one of
the old, long-dated loans to build the lines.
So the proposal that he should have 16 times
as much voice is an outrage on the one-
adult-one-vote ideal, He can only get his
extra power or multiple vote by confiscat-
ing part of the value of everybody else’s
vote, which is plain, vulgar robbery.
■ -» • ■
Throwing Away the Badges.
The sectarian revival of the past few months
is by no means the pointless imbecility that
it looks on the surface. One of the effects
of the war was to destroy old values as be-
tween the .Churches. The padres of the dif-
ferent denominations worked together with-
out dragging racial or religious differences
into the association: and so did the Diggers.
The professional sectarian-mongers at home
were horrified at the tolerance displayed by
the men of the A.I.F. on demobilisation.
There seemed to be no righteous hate left in
them. Irishmen fraternised with English
pommies and Orangemen with Romanists.
On the one hand the Sinn Fein movement
and on the other the overthrow of Rome
were enthusiastically placed second to the
necessity of getting a fair deal for the Dig-
gers and their dependants, irrespective of
religion or race. In order to correct this
disastrous tendency one crowd has started
to talk Sinn Fein to the Diggers while an-
other yells for Empire. Let the returned
soldiers be warned : every man of them who
allows himself to be side-tracked by these
cries will help thereby to break up the spiri-
tual union which was cemented in camps,
in hospitals and on battlefields on the other
side of the world. It is a union of which not
only the living but the dead are members;
a sacred association not only of the men
themselves but of their womenfolk and chil-
dren. One of the sectarian papers, writing
of a recent disturbance in which returned
men took part, stated unctuously that many
“tore off their badges and threw them away
in disgust.” Probably apocryphal: but
certainly a case of the wish being father to
the thought. If the day ever comes when
any large number of returned men start
throwing away their badges, then will every
cold-footer and A.I.F. slanderer of other
years breathe again.
+ .
The Troubles of China.
There is no other country which so con-
founds the theories of the Internationalist
brethren as China does. With a history of
at least 50 centuries, a population which
has swelled through the ages till it now
touches the 300-million mark, and a patriot-
ism which, though chiefly expressed in a
bland contempt of foreigners, is yet strong,
the gentle Chow has never acted aggres-
sively towards any outside nation. On the
other hand, within the last 25 years Japan
has taken Formosa; Germany, Shantung
(now held by Japan) ; Russia, Port Arthur
and the adjacent territories and waters
(lost later to Japan) ; Britain, a slab of
territory adjoining Hong Kong, and France
Kuang-Chau-Wan Bay and the islands com-
manding it. And apparently the process of
partition is only just beginning. In 1912
China became a republic. It possessed
neither an army nor a navy in the modern
sense, and so there was no civil war on an
orderly scale, but there was plenty of loot-
ing and murder. In 1917 the Manchu dyn-
asty was brought back, and there was more
bloodshed and robbery; and so there was
when the republic was presently restored.
The Republicans have educated and in gen-
eral looked after the little ex-Emperor in
the palace of his forebears at Pekin ever
since, bearing no malice towards him or
his supporters. For that is the Chinese
way. The newest upheaval is nominally
between the monarchist North and the re-
publican South, but it is no different in its
manifestations and in its disastrous effects
on the lives and properties of the non-com-
batants from the innumerable outbreaks of
anarchy that have preceded it. And it is
the sort of thing that must continually hap-
pen so long as the Chinese plod along on
Brotherhood of Man lines. They are the
product and the victim of 2500’ vears of
Internationalism. The Confucian ideal boils
down into elaborate consideration for the
rights of man; and the theory is that, if
such rights are conceded, with honest dig-
nity, the courtesy will be reciprocated. There
is nothing more difficult than to be dignified,
yielding and honest when others are behav-
ing in an opposite manner. Hence China
is a land of brain-storms. The Confucian
endures for years the snectacJe of the wiioto


co^
nC
v
v^ s
WIRE ROPES
WM. JAS. GLOVER & CO.,
Iq
GO.
% *2*
Wire-drawing Mills and Rope Works, St. Helens, England.
Contractors to the Admiralty.
Australian Agents:
GUTHRiDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney .
IN STOCK.
“Glover’s Best” Steel Wire Ropes of Highest Quality for
Shipping, Mining, Hauling, Cranes, Lifts, etc.
WHEN NEW
••
•a
iV
&
*#
**
• ■*
••••
■*-e
«:*
r
•a
*»
»?♦
Jfti©
PARTLY WORN.
of the outside world, and many of his com-
patriots, breaking every rule of the spiritual
game, and then he suddenly goes mad. The
Russians did the same, under much the same
sort of impulsion, in 1917. They suffered
incredible miseries; and then they made the
discovery which China has still to make.
They realised that the moujik nation which
trusts in man’s humanity to man is in for
trouble; that there is only one prospect for
disorganised and unarmed countries in the
wild which is our world—to be exploited by
the strong. When the Internationalists of
Russia kicked aside their soap-boxes and
organised disciplined armies, led, not by
Committees of Comrades, but by generals
whose powers were absolute —when that
occurred things began to come their way.
Had it not occurred anarchy and starvation
would have reigned till Poland and the other
predatory border countries had decided how
much of Russia it would suit them to steal.
The Japanese are said to be behind the
present Chinese disturbance. It is quite
possible. Japan’s ambitions in Shantung
are the more likely to be realised if the right-
ful owner is in too distracted a state to
oppose them even by word of mouth; and
where a country is palpably incapable of
governing itself the act of seizing valuable
portions of it takes on the appearance of
something very like morality. But whether
the trouble is being caused by land-hungry
foreigners or by swashbucklers inside China
is immaterial to those who are ruined by
it. All they have to consider is the cure.
And the cure evidently 3s a strong central
Government as against anarchy; a real
army and navy ; and the development of a
national form of patriotism. There is plenty
of justice in the world, but those who say
that it shall be done must say it behind the
muzzle of a gun.
«.
Dust and the Worker’s Lungs.
The Bulletin consults a specialist in pul-
monary diseases and gets this: —
Workers with flintstone and sandstone are affected
in time by pneumoconiosis, while other no less
dusty trades are quite safe from a health point of
view. Plenty of dust is encountered in connection with
Portland cement, limestone, plaster of Paris and iron-
stone, but fibroid changes in the lungs are not met
with in workmen who have to do with these sub-
stances. As for coal-dust, though it sometimes
causes pneumoconiosis, it actually' preserves miners
from tuberculosis. Street-dust is harmless enough,
so long as it is dust, because the respiratory tract
is able to get rid of the offending material. But
when the dust is mixed with sharp siliceous or
metallic fragments which have the power of pene-
trating the walls of the air-cells, there is a different
story to tell. The protecting glands and the phago-
cytes are no longer able to deal with the intruding
particles, which are carried by the lymph stream to
the bronchial glands, and to the septa between the
lobules of the lung, where continued irritation causes
the formation of new fibrous tissue, which sets up
chronic bronchitis and emphysema, and prepares the
“soil” for tuberculosis. This disease appears to
eventually develop in some cases of pneumoconiosis,
and when this occurs the victims go rapidly down-
hill ; but there is a doubt whether the superadded
complaint is the real thing, or a non-tubercular
variety of phthisis. All depends on the finding of
the tubercle bacillus in the sputa. The Transvaal
Committee found it in only three cases out of
31 examined, while in an inquiry into pottery-
makers’ phthisis the bacillus was not found at all.
No mention is made of this in the Broken Hill
report; but the Transvaal conclusions on this pqint
are worth quoting. The Committee says that “while
in some cases a true tubercular phthisis may co-
exist, or may be superadded, the conjunction is
only seen in a minority of cases,” and it recognised
the “pure fibroid type as the commonest and most
characteristic form of the disease.” Mr. Brook-
field, the member for Broken Hill, who made some
sensational comments on the report of the technical
commission which has been working among Barrier
miners, has obviously read that report quite
wrongly.
+
A Gregarious Animal with a Mortgage.
This was on a recent day the barren and
hackneyed text of Macpherson, President
of the Chamber of Commerce (Sydney),
who is one of the official horn-blowers for
the £25,000,000 Federal loan at 6 per cent.:
The loan, being primarily for the purpose of
assisting soldiers to settle on the land, for the
building of war-service homes and for the repatria-
tion of soldiers generally, has objects which should
commend it to the support of every true Australian.
The crying need to-day is for population in our
rural districts; and the settlement on the land of
the best Australians, as our soldiers have proved
themselves to be, is a question that must appeal to
every business man and every taxpayer.
It is all as stereotyped as the agent’s advt.
of “this desirable residence for sale, cheap,
replete with every modern convenience”; as
familiar as the prayer-book is to an elderly
enrate who has lost all hope of promotion;
and as flat as the Nullarbor Plain. Any
steady old draught-horse politician could talk
like that for hours and do mental arithmetic
at the same time. And this is the other
view-—the one that the commercial city
Macpheksons steadily ignore amid the
feast of platitudes and the flow of tripe:—
Man is a gregarious beast—probably more so
than ever before. lie likes to be near a city or
a live town, and it is no use asking why. He just
does*. The tendency is hereditary; in this race at
all events. In the narrow British Isles there are
54 counties which, for some reason or other, don’t
possess a town with more than 20,000 people.
And 47 of them are losing the little population
they have because life has no attractions unless
there is a town more than twice the size of Bathurst
within a few miles.
The Australian is content with less than that,'
though he has been spoiled by the policy which
plants a huge city like Sydney—bigger than
Madrid or Rome or Washington—on the edge of
a great emptiness, and makes the choice one between
Babylon and a gum-tree. But in almost every State
even the very small towns are being systematically
destroyed by a vast system of faking in matters
of railway rates and railway and road and port
construction, which wipes out their little urban
industries and shifts their workshops to or near
to the capital. So it happens that in N. S. Wales
(which really isn’t so bad as Victoria or S. Aus.)
Sydney now owns nearly three-fourths of the factory
employees. Also tire number of country-town fac-
tory employees has been decreasing for nine years.
So the small towns empty faster than the country
around them fills. And thanks to the One Big City
policy the vastly expensive new railways only fetch
people away. And the more settlers are sent there
the fewer settlers are to be found there, and the
more anxious they are to leave. The farms that are
taken from the sheep men begin to drift back to
the sheep men.
They have to drift back under the One Big City
policy. The sheep men can at least pay their way and
are mostly able to settle themselves, while in the blun- -
during, benevolent State of N. S. AVales it now costs
£2500 to settle a soldier as a small agriculturist
and leave him in the wilderness far from a town
with a mortgage the size of an elephant. He could
be settled in a drought-proof, well-paying factory in-
dustry for about £250. And after he has been
“settled” he has to be helped, according to last
year’s N. S. Wales figures, by having his produce
carried at 3s. Bd. per ton per 100 miles, while the
THE JIB.
wool man pays 18s. 9d. The cost of carriage was
about Bs., so the wheat was carried at a ruinous loss.
The moral of all which is that to put a gregarious
animal with a mortgage on land where settlers must
be far apart (for 10- or 12-bushel soil can’t be cut
into very small areas) —to put him there with a
dying hamlet a good many miles away by a bad
road (it has no chance to be a bustling, growing
town when even the old gingerbeer factory, a shack
at best, has removed to the city), and then let
him hear Babylon a-calling at the end of the rail-
way line, doesn’t make for permanent settlement. If
Babylon was cut into eight pieces and distributed
partly along the coast and partly inland the call
wouldn’t be so lopsided.
These remarks are offered to Mr. Macpher-
son, of Sydney, and all Macpiieksons in
other States without much hope that they
will profit thereby.
Pentridge.
Reflections of > an ex-gaol-official:—
At the inquiry into the recent little affair at
Pentridge held by the Inspector-General of Vic. Penal
Establishments, “ah interesting feature,” according
to a printed report, “was the display of exhibits
found on the prisoners and in their cells”
Pinkus had, when searched, a suit of grey penal
tweed under his prison clothes, a pair of trousers,
and a shirt, each made of brown dungaree, a piece of
mirror, a bolt, a quantity of twine, a knife roughly
made out of a piece of steel and sharpened to a
fine point, and a sharpening stone.
Among the articles taken from TowKley were a
suit of prison tweed worn under his prison clothes, a
cloth cap, a coil of wire, a bradawl, scissors, a pen-
knife, two saws, a coat of black lining, a soft collar,
and a tie.
Gilmoub had possession of an automatic revolver,
a long steel jemmy, a steel ring with a handle a
foot long, a razor in a sheath, a suit of clothes,
and a cap.
The articles found on Boukke consisted of three
cloth caps.
Mclvor had a revolver under his clothes, caught
round his body with a strip of greenhide, two bombs
with match-fuses attached, which could be ignited by
being rubbed against a rough surface, 50 cartridges
in a cartridge-belt wrapped round his body, a small
knife, a coil of wire, a black coat, a canvas bag, and
a screw-driver.
The equipment of Mr. Mclvoit is really impressive,
and it is only to be wondered at that he had neither
a Lewis gun nor a trench-mortar in his arsenal.
That so much contraband should have been in
the possession of these men is of course due to
the inefficiency of the prison staff —possibly owing to
short-handedness —and the perfunctory nature of the
periodical searches of the cells and the persons of
prisoners. This is the way the N. S. Wales
Department sees to it that its guests do not provide
themselves with armories and aids to escape. It was
written by a man who did six months, in 1918,
under the War Precautions Act: —
Shortly after half-past four the doors are thrown
open and tins and spoons placed outside. It is
“search time,” and a warder enters to overhaul cell,
furniture and the prisoner himself. The latter,
fully dressed, except for his boots and the fact
that all buttons must be unfastened, steps forward
and stands with his face to the wall. Behind him
each nook and corner is ransacked... .A ladder is
brought in to allow examination of the ventilator
bars, and the walls are tapped with a long-handled
hammer. Eventually a gruff order is given, and
the prisoner faces right-about. ' Taking off the
upper part of his clothing, and throwing it, together
with hat and boots, out into the passage, he stretches
his arms out against the wall, while the warder
searches every inch of his body, and orders the
removal of what more clothing he considers necesr
sary. Another command is then given, and the
prisoner steps to the further end of the cell, where
he stands with face again wall ward till the searching
of clothing and headgear is completed, and the
articles turned in with the rattling sanitary tub.
It hardly seems likely that Messrs. Pinkos and Co.
would have been able to equip themselves so com-
pletely had they been residents of Long Bay.
In the 60-odd years of its existence Pentridge
has always been in some sort of trouble. For a
short period the redoubtable John Price wa3 its
superintendent, and it is probable that it was ai
least well disciplined in his time. But almost
ever since the tale of its mutinies, escapes, murders
and violent assaults upon officers has been eloquent
as to the slackness that prevails in the big prison.
In N. S. Wales the authorities regard those
whom they call “Pentridge men”' — i.e., prisoners who
have graduated in the Coburg establishment —as the
most dangerous and untrustworthy of any of their
inmates. It is reckoned that “Pentridge men”
are always worth watching very carefully, and that
little but trouble may be expected from them.
Some of the Sydney talent is not bad, but it is gener-
ally conceded that the advantages derived from a
Pentridge education place the Victorian criminal far
ahead in criminality of any of his contemporaries
in the other States. He has been to one of the
best schools for his training in villainy.
Perhaps if some of the officials of the institution
were to be sent for a course of instruction to, say,
Long Bay, it might be possible to find some means
of preventing prisoners in Pentridge from equipping
themselves with bombs, daggers, and automatic
pistols. These luxuries are not conducive to the
health of warders, deputy-governors and superin-
tendents —and it is at least up to the Vic. Govern-
ment to instruct its prison guardians in the art of
keeping alive.
♦
In Sydney last week two Americans were
convicted of maliciously wounding a hotel-
porter. On their victim’s body “were many
knife-wounds, and at the hospital 30 stitches
were inserted.” Judge Armstrong, in re-
manding the accused for sentence, said that
he was disposed to take a comparatively
lenient view of the using of knives, “as
sailors used knives in a way that other per-
sons did not.” If Judge Armstrong still
has that disposition it is to be hoped that
he will get rid of it at the very first oppor-
tunity. In the first place, it amounts to a
libel on sailors as a class. Certain nigger
and Dago seamen may make a practice of
knifing, but among white Britishers and
Australians the habit is next door to un-
known. How many people have been
knifed by members of the R.A.N. or R.N.
during the past decade? In any event, to
lay it down that members of a particular
class are, so to speak, licensed to commit
a given type, of crime is surely an inversion
of both justice and sense. Certain nurses
are abortionists. Should the practice of
abortion by the nursing profession be, there-
fore, condoned?
+.
Clemenceau and Wilson were mainly
responsible for the reconstitution of Poland
(Lloyd George, though acquiescent, was
frankly dubious), and the process of disso-
lution this last month has been so rapid
that there can’t be much of their handiwork
left. Under the Treaty of Versailles the
Poles got back nearly all Prussian and Aus-
trian Poland, together with the territory
comprised in the so-called Congress King-
dom established under Russia’s suzerainty
in 1815. It was a pretty good foundation
to erect a new Poland on, but the Poles used
to own Lithuania, the Ukraine and vast
tracts of the country now known as West
Russia, and, against Foch’s advice, began a
war for their recovery. Like Kosciusko
in 1794, they won brilliant successes at the
outset, but now, as then, they started
quarrelling among themselves, and before
the factions had adjusted their differences
the Red armies of Muscovy (so called be-
cause. they are largely brown and yellow)
had taken Lemberg and were making, good
time towards Warsaw. Within the last week
or so the plenipotentiaries of H uni and
swore anew to observe the Treaty of Ver-
sailles. But insomuch as the said Treaty
awarded part of their country to the Poles,
who have since been so whole-heartedly
licked, tlfe Germans must have had their
tongues in their cheeks, as usual.
♦
“Padjud” on telegraphic delays:—
Years ago there was a winter slump in telegrams.
Lines stood without a click for an hour or end.
Nowadays the volume of business increases so rapidly
that the records of summer (except perhaps the
Christmas rush) are eclipsed the following winter.
One Saturday recently Sydney had its maximum staff
at work. A monthly batch of about 25 men
returned from annual leave that day, and the
next crowd was held back till the Monday. This
big staff failed absolutely to hold the traffic. During
the busy morning hours (Saturday morning sees
the busiest rush—Monday comes first on an all-day
basis) the business simply walked away from the
staff, reinforced though it was. It was not till 6
a.m. on Sunday that arrears were cleaned up, and
as usual many hundreds of wires were not delivered
till next week. P.M.G. Wise recently gave permis-
sion for the appointment of 20 extra operators at
Sydney. But the trouble is not so much a short-
age of operators as a misuse of those already
available. What is true in Sydney is true from
Broome to Thursday Island. There are, for in-
stance, dozens of telegraphists in Sydney who rarely
handle a key. They attend to the inter-Statc
Wheatstone lines—work which does not require
telegraphic skill. Further, at evening, when all
lines should be manned and the day’s business
wound up with a rush, about a score of operators
are taken off lines and put to copying Wheatstone
messages (the AVheatstone messages arrive in dots
and dashes) for delivery to the public. Economy-
at-any-price Webster made it a point never to re-
place a departing Wheatstone copyist. Therefore this
staff, which in Sydney now consists of seven women,
is so inadequate that Wheatstone auto-messages
received from about 2.30 p.m. on are never delivered
till next day that is, about 1.8 hours after arrival.
This means that for about £2O per week (the
wages of seven typists) Wise can have in Sydney a
service more efficient than the proposed expenditure
of £lOO a week (20 operators) will achieve.
♦
From one of the old props and stays of the
Defence Department:—
If the Department aimed at driving the best
of our younger military staff-officers out of the ser-
vice, it could hardly do more than it is doing at
present; but as all Duntrooners have bound them-
selves to serve for 12 years, it is evidently thought
that they may be treated as bound labor is treated
all the world over—without any regard for justice.
When Duntroon was founded it was given out that
the graduates were to have positions carrying decent
salaries. Instead of that, after six years’ gradua-
tion, they are getting only laborers’ wages; in
fact, their pay is less than half what British Army
officers of corresponding rank receive. Why junior
officers’ pay is not increased no one but the Minister
and the Military' Board knows. There has been
no opposition from any outside quarter. Senior
officers, both Permanent and Citizen, cannot under-
stand it.
Statements were made in Parliament (1) that
there was no order stopping the promotion of Dun-
trooners at the Front; and (2) that every officer had
had an increase in pay of at least 40 per cent. These
false assertions have aroused bitter hostility. Nearly
all the juniors are seeking openings in civil life.
Many have positions waiting, and, 'gs soon as peace
is declared with Turkey, they are going to test the
matter of the 12 years’ agreement, for a barrister
of standing questions its legality.
One Duntroon graduate is having, and will for the
best part of a year have, £2 per week stopped from
his pay to settle a bill for horse-feed. The horse
having been used on Commonwealth duty in Eng-
land, when the bill was presented the officer refused to
pay it, and would have resigned but for the Depart-
ment requiring its pound of flesh. A'fet this officer
was refused promotion in France, and was thereby
robbed of increases in pay amounting to hundreds
of pounds. To deduct £2 per week from his scanty
screw is a thing of which Shylock would have felt
ashamed.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
Th e Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
who would earn over
£5,000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
After the current year’s renewals have
been arranged for, Australia will have about
£80,000,000 of State debts falling due inside
four years, mostly in London. It means,
of course, that, thanks
to past furious bor-
rowing—and nobody
has borrowed so furi-
ously as Labor Gov-
ernments —-the States
will have to accept
whatever terms the
foreign creditor lays
down. -Already Theo-
dore has had to aban-
don various measures;
in other words, Austra-
lia has to more or less
give up the idea that
it is free to govern
itself. Sp Queens-
land sees its Bill Len-
non turned out from
Government House to
make room for a
gentleman na m e d
Nathan; and if a
gentleman named
Cohenstein turns
Davidson out of the
premises in Ma c-
quarie-street. Sydney,
nobody need be at all
surprised.
CUNNINGHAM, the
new M.H.R. who
defeated the Poet
Webster for Gwydir.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The no-confidence debate just concluded in the
Reps, was remarkable for its sectarian bitterness.
Most of the talk was strained and foolish, and it
gradually involved members like Prowse, of Westralia.
That tame and placid citizen probably never dreamt
of opening his mouth on such an issue; but the
electrical atmosphere loosened his usually guarded
tongue, and he was soon directing a heavy fire on
a matter of R.C. doctrine and causing looks of
anguished wonderment in unexpected places. The
comment was quite uncalled for, but the West-
ralian’s responsibility was less than that of Hughes,
who had turned the whole debate into sectarian
channels by banal taunts in his reply to Tudor.
Nowadays the Priminister cannot mention the Labor
party without getting into a lather about Rome,
and his lumping of Mannix, Labor and Sinn Fein
has become a habit. How bad a habit the Ballarat
election shows: the enemy triumphed by a greater
majority than had been known since Deakin left
the seat.
The loss of their candidate’s deposit at
Ballarat seems to have demoralised the Cocky
Representatives. After speaking against
Tudor’s stillborn censure motion McWil-
liams and Stewart voted for it. The remain-
ing C.P.’s, who are supposed to follow
McWilliams, ranged themselves on the other
side. If they ever want to be a party —at
present they are only a group, and an uncer-
tain and wandering group at that—the
Cookies will have to assimilate the dictum of
cynical old Melbourne: “It doesn’t matter a
damn what we say so long as we all say
the same thing.”
Australia is learning a
lot of things from the new
members to whom it is pay-
ing £lOOO a year. One of
them, Lazzarini, diverted
his fellow-Representatives
on July 8 with the story of
an oppressed genius, “born
of Scottish parents in N. S.
Wales,” who was interned
for a year and eight months
because “he put forth a sys-
tem of financial administra-
tion by which the Common-
wealth could have met the
cost of the war, as the
British have done in the
past, without taxing the
people to the extent of a
penny or adding a penny to
the National Debt.” “Do
you really believe that?”
gasped the astonished
Jowett. “I do,” retorted
the mass of credulity from
Werriwa, “and I shall con-
tinue to believe it until a
Select Committee proves the
contrary.” When Lazzarini
moves for his Select Com-
mittee somebody is to sug-
gest that the tribunal should
also inquire into the possibility of paying off
the public debt by extracting radium from
horseradish.
It was suggested by one of the chief
speakers at the National Council of Women
Conference that when children are pen-
sioned in N.S.W. there might be a medical
inspection of the pensioners once a year.
But there was not to be any financial inspec-
tion to find out, if possible, that the old man
wasn’t simply taking an extra day off and
going to the races with the 245. or 30s. per
week he got for the four kids, and thus fur-
ther reducing production and making the
country more dependent on the profiteering
importer. “Inspectors are objectionable,
said the speaker. Yes, audit of the accounts
is a beastly thing. It has brought almost
as many people to gaol as drink.
North Queensland has been found and lost
again. Minister Fihelly has been Columbus-
ing up there, and after 4000 miles of travel
he reported quite truly:—
It is wonderful country about the Gulf, practically
an undeveloped and even undiscovered continent.
And it is never likely to be developed much
from Brisbane, which is outside the tropics,
1200 miles from the Gulf, planted in the
south-east corner of the big State, and with
its eye fixed on the loan market down south.
It is the Fihelly Government’s boast that
it has settled 3500 embarrassed soldier-
families on the land, lending them as much
as £l2OO apiece. But apparently not one of
the 3500 was planted in the wonderful
North, where white population must be had ;
nor does it seem that any of the 16,000 fami-
lies to be settled shortly are to go there
either. So the North falls back into the
old obscurity, and till it has its own capital
and its own Fihelly it will stay there.
The Argus warns those wretched people
who want to save the expense Sf keeping
two imported professional Governors to
tread the same ground, that they are play-
ing into the hands of “Sinn Feiners, dis-
turbers and rebels, who are watching and
assisting their efforts with malevolent and
sinister satisfaction.” A little while ago it
was the Bolsheviks who were profoundly
interested in our attempts at economy.
Earlier still it was just socialists and
anarchists generally. Presently it will be
the revolutionary party in Spain, or the
Nihilists in Yucatan. It is not sufficient
that the purely Australian agitation is a
fiendish inspiration of the Devil, and all
Hell is watching its progress with burning
interest, but every crook on earth must be
dragged in. The Bulletin, as a convinced
anti-prohibitionist, believes the whole busi-
ness to be the work of that notorious con-
spirator Pussyfoot Johnson.
Refused a rise of 33-J per cent, on salaries
up to £lBO a year, and on the first £lBO of
salaries above that figure, 2000 Westralian
civil servants have gone on strike. _ They
contend that they have just as much right to
the 33i per cent, as the W.A. politicians who
awarded it to themselves last year. Some
of them no doubt deserve it more. But their
demand works out, all told, at £250,000 a
year, and their State hasn’t paid its way for
10 years; since 1911 it has accumulated a
deficit of nearly four millions and a quarter.
Moreover, since the boom days the Westralian
civil service has been notoriously over-
manned ; and now by striking they deprive
themselves of the sanctuary of the Public
Service Act, which virtually prevents a Gov-
ernment from retiring superfluous officers
except for senility or misconduct. But if
the service is overmanned it is certainly
also underpaid. It couldn’t very well be
anything else, seeing that politicians have
been allowed to unload on to it importunate
and incompetent persons because they voted
the right ticket.
“MAN NEVER IS. BUT ALWAYS TO
BE, BLEST.”
“Oh, I thought meat would he cheaper alter
all the nice rains!”
“No, ma'am. You see, all the stock that
didn't die in the drought has got
drowned in the floods .”
From the Sydney Telegraph’s horse
column:—
The patronage bestowed upon Warwick Farm races
on Saturday was so large that the Leger stand
and enclosure were uncomfortably taxed, and the
muster in the grandstand reserve seemed to be a
record.
The same day as that was printed a woman
vainly appealed to a stipendiary in the Central
Summons Court to cancel an ejectment notice
served on her by the landlord. “I can’t get
a house anywhere,” she pleaded, “and I have
been everywhere looking for one. If I could
get a place I would go willingly. I have 10
children, and that is the reason I am turned
out.” If this sort of thing goes on Sydney’s
houseless legion will be reduced to seeking
shelter on the racecourse. Then the army
of sturdy unionists who cut out Saturday
work because they wanted more time for
intellectual studies will find the grandstand
and Leger more uncomfortably crowded than
ever.
The revolt against Bloated Capitals is
spreading. Separation motions have been
passed by the Rockhampton and Fitzroy
councils (Q.), and the Mayor of Rockhamp-
ton is summoning a convention of Central
Queensland local bodies to set the thing going.
Being unificationists, the Labor people ought
to support all these movements as so many
steps towards the goal. But all that the
separationists have got from Labor poli-
ticians thus far is either icy indifference or
sullen hostility.
“At the request of Mr. Arthur Henderson, of
the British Labor party,” Premier Theodore,
of Queensland, will “represent Australia” at
the International Labor Convention. It is
to be hoped that the gentleman who runs
the purely local part of the show for less
than one-seventh of this country’s popula-
tion will be content to represent his own
corner, or that part of his corner which
has the International craze. It should be
somebody’s business to make Theodore’s
position clear to the convention and to
Europe. Somebody might also ask Mr.
Arthur Henderson who it was that put Aus-
tralia, or even Australian Labor, in his
pocket.
From the Vic. Gallery -
After moving a reduction of £5 in the supple-
mentary estimates as a protest against insufficiency
of railway trucks for hauling firewood, newly-wedded
Martin Hannah took the chair in committee in
the Assembly as a deputy for McGregor. He was
thus unable to vote for his own amendment, which
Premier Lawson called a no-confidence proposition.
Moreover, he had the very rare experience of
declaring his own amendment lost—by over two to
one. A Ministerialist, recalling a tag from “The Mer-
chant of Venice,’’ said banteringly: “0 wise and
upright judge.”
The best that the Lawson Ministry is
offering Vic. Assembly members to induce
them to keep their noses to the grindstone
while their opponents are sweetening the
electors is a programme comprising a Hous-
ing (Advances at 6 per cent.) Bill, a Chari-
ties Bill (promised for 30 years) and a Uni-
versity (Better Management) Bill. On the
card appear also a Factories Bill (which
has no chance of passing in a short session),
the Nurses (Registration and Working
Hours) Bill, and a Gas Regulation Bill
(which the clutching hand of vested interests
is sure to paralyse by a touch, as usual).
The more the situation is studied the more
certain it appears that the session will end
in August, and that the people’s turn will
come in September.
From the Federal Gallery:—
If any man earns his salary it is Frank Tudor.
His loyalty to his job keeps him in attendance
every day, and only a fire or the spectacle of
Jowett jazzing with Oonsidine outside would
wrench him away from his place at the table.
Any Minister piloting a big measure through Com-
mittee can always count on Tudor to make a tan-
dem. Pince-nez on nose, the Labor leader follows
the dullest bill through, clause by clause, often
talking like a savant on technicalities he isn’t sup-
posed to know, while Ryan and other reputedly
strenuous members are heaving heart-rending yawns
into the tepid air. Tudor's freshness* and enthusiasm
after years of Parliamentary life are amazing in
a sphere where boredom is very easily generated.
And then there is his incredible good conduct! He
has never been more than hot under the most
exasperating provocation, and in a long experience
of his speeches I have never heard a wrong word.
I have often longed for the day when he would be
suspended, and, still unrepentant, would be grabbed
by the sergeant-at-arms and ejected. An episode
like that would brighten the Gallery, tired of the
jets of insult from the same dull quarters; but
we have a dark suspicion 'it will never occur.
Ultimately Tudor will finish with Parliament with-
out a black mark to his name.
On Tudor’s motion of censure Hughes
contributed to the waste of talk a capital
illustration of the sophistry that is a keen
politician’s principal stock-in-trade. Tudor
having complained of the high price of
meat, Hughes replied :
Mr. Tudor’s last charge seemed to be that Che
farmers are selling products here at a higher price
than overseas, and that the best way to help the
farmers would be to compel them to sell here at
lower prices than they do overseas.
Tudor did not suggest that farmers should
sell meat, grain or butter cheaper in the
local market than in England. Indeed, he
didn’t suggest
that a small
grazier has much
to do with the
price obtained for
frozen meat in
Europe. Nobody
knew better than
Hughes that the
high price of poor
meat in Australia,
as compared with
the much lower
price obtained for
much better meat
in London, after
it has been charged
with the expense
of getting frozen,
is one of those in-
justices to the
public which every-
body . sees at a
glance, but no
politician proposes
a remedy for.
'FRANK TUIJOR,
leader of the
Labor party in
the House of Reps.
Archbishop Duhig (Q.) has also been con-
sidering the vanishing apprentice. “What
inducement,” he asked the other day, “is
there for a young man to enter into a trade
apprenticeship, when as an ordinary laborer
he can command 15s. a day?” Precious little
inducement to become an apprentice, in view
of the hostility of certain union leaders to the
apprentice system, but any amount of in-
ducement to become an unskilled dirt-shifter
on vote-catching Government loan-jobs. And
to ensure that vote-catching loan jobs shall
continue, no matter at what cost, Labor
now proposes that the 18-year-old inefficient
shall get the vote.
THE MATTER OF POPULATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Australia needs population.”- —Any paper, any
time.
1 know not why so many men are born
Or why the cry goes up in any natioi\
For ampler mouths to eat the beef and corn.
Whence, comes the pressing need for population?
A hundred thousand miles of happy air
Is not concerned how ants and- men employ it;
A sunset landscape would be just as fair
Whether two eyes or sixty-eight enjoy it.-
What mirth is found in overcrowded trams,
In eager throngs that push and rush and scramble,
In multiplying Dicks and Toms and Sams
To raise the odds in life’s uncertain gamble?
The world is full of bits of rusty tin
And shards of broken bottles rudely scattered;
What these once held men strove with zeal to win
As if their beer and treacle really mattered.
Life on a planet dappled blue and green
Is mostly centred in a railway-station;
And nights made strange with blinking kerosene
Are labelled, as in scorn, “civilisation.”
With twenty-five or thirty folk I know—
And all the other millions safe in Heaven—
The world would turn upon its ends and grow
And feel as good at twelve o’clock as seven.
The sea would never worry, nor the hills,
Nor would the simple trees be heard complaining
That no one maddened over household bills
And all men stayed in bed when it was raining.
Trains, steamships, aeroplanes, boot-polish, ink —
What need of these from Charters Towers •to
Bashan,
Save that like telegirams and clocks and drink
They serve the futile fraud called population?
Increase and multiply! All right, but why ?
Do fifty men look pleasanter than twenty?
Old Adam, when first Eve came smiling by,
Felt rather crowded—one of him was plenty.
Give me an isle of fifty thousand acres.
Yes, you can como and watch me while I ponder
If throngs of sports, Jews, atheists and Quakers
Can make one moment brighter, richer, fonder.
The throng that daily treads upon my feet
Makes vain the leather I must duly polish.
Most of the population that I meet —
Here let me sigh—l’d cheerfully abolish.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


HANDS OFF TRIAL BY JURY!
THE FOREMAN: “Here! Here! We represent the People. We ARE the People. You mustn’t get rid of us!”
THE MINISTER: “Oh, blow the People! What did they want to find my friends guilty for?”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS> Brand.
r Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Kenned Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
. _ and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Hearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder,
nrchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
Tj : COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
rn^«v- S ,S^t ( ;^ LL ’ Mana s el ’- - T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
LOIS DON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
London Manager and Secretary.
SIDNEI OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROO KM ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
AL.li STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tiie Melbourne Trust, Ltd.: —
ec -' Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1909 .. £.25,183 20 p.e. = £06,944 £121,598
Book profit on purchase of Mercantile
Bank Assets Co., £28,782 .. .. 150,380
Other assets written up, £ 145,205 . . 295,585
Special distribution of assets in 4 p.e.
debentures, £246,559 .. .. 49 026
1910 .. 26,289 6i p.e. = 18,492 5c’823
J9ll •• ■ 34,910 8J „ ~ 24,656 67,077
1912 .. .38,009 8j ~ ~ 24,656 80,430
1913 •• . 34,717 8 i ~ „ 24,656 90,491
Premiums on new shares, £1032 .. 91,523
1914 •: 24,970 8 p.e. = 24,000 92,’493
Written off, £18,721 .. .. .. 73,772
1915 .. . 15,522 5 p.e. = 15,000 74’294
1916 .. 23,184 6 „ „ 18,000 79,478
1917 . . 33,441 8 „ „ 24,000 88,919
1918 . . 40,528 10 „ „ 30,000 ) Qfl Q ,„
Vote to Superannuation Fund, £2500 i JD,a4 '
1919 .. 34,510 8 p.e. = 24,000 [ inr =
Vote to Superannuation Fund, £2092 j igD,a o
This co. 17 years ago took over the remains
of three derelict boom-time banks—the City
Bank of Melbourne, the Federal of Aus-
tralia and the English and Australian. The
management apparently enjoyed its job so
thoroughly that it later purchased other rem-
nants of the bad old days. The process of
realisation proved so easy that about 10 years
ago the debenture debt of £891!,485 with which
the co. began had been wiped out and the
management was in a position to disclose
£148,709 of accumulated profits on sales.
Assets were also written up £145,205, and
£240,559 of bonus debentures carrying 4 p.e.
interest were passed out to shareholders. All
but £37,656 of this issue has now been re-
deemed. This shows how the two lots of
debentures have been reduced and also indi-
cates the profit or loss incurred by realising
old properties:—
Re- Profit on Profit
deemed Purchase, on Pro-
Debentures during of De- perty
Outstanding. Year, bentures. Sales.
Dec., 1906. . £189,579 £72,804 £648 £31,274
„ 1907.. 150,693 38,886 213 15,545
„ 1908.. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
„ 1909.. Nil 89,241 7 47,435
„ 1910.. 193,953 52,606 1654 1,874
„ 1911.. 151,057 42,896 1838 3,624
„ 1912.. 93,882 57,175 443 12,644
„ 1913.. 92,970 912 49 7,677
„ 1914.. 37,847 55,123 691
„ 1915.. 38,087 —•— 2 127
„ 1916.. 38,087 3, ’767
Loss.
„ 1917.. 38,087 _ 1866
„ 1918.. 38,087 _ 3'239
„ 1919.. 37,656 431 ? 1,842
During the past year £431 of debentures were
repurchased at a discount. The amount of
profit made in this way has not, however,
been disclosed, but has been used as a set-off
against portion of the year’s losses on
property realisations. Conditions for un-
loading this class of old asset have been so
favorable during recent years that realisa-
tions have been accelerated, with the result
that of J;he £241,000 book value of old assets
only £27,500 is in house and land properties.
The rest consists almost wholly of station
and sugar-farm holdings.
The directors set out the year’s profits as
£31,451, but that was after paying, on behalf
of shareholders, the English 4s. id. in the £
tax on dividends. Adding the £4900 paid
out in this way and deducting the £1842
loss on realisations gives the £34,510 net
profit shown in the table. Paid capital is
£300,000, and there are visible reserves of
£105,365. Since £241,522 represents the
book value of all old assets, the co. has
nowadays a considerable volume of invest-
ments of its own. This shows how the posi-
tion has altered over many years:—
Old Cos.’ New Purchasers’ Cash,
Assets. Investments.. Balances. etc.
1906. . £417,586 £8,034 £111,045 £26,664
1909.. 267,928 20,363 113,334 59,439
1916.. 329,207 68,480 58,976 1,485
1917.. 296,232 90,174 68,128 5,243
1918.. 253,571 113,680 78,048 30,369
1919.. 241,522 129,526 45,785 62,739
Practically one-half of the new investments
consists of War Loan. Apart from the gift
debentures they received, the people who
financed the purchase of the old derelicts
have done remarkably well. Deducting the
debenture stock still on the books there are
net assets of £426,557 to represent the
£300,000 of paid capital. Possibly the old
assets are worth more than the £241,522 at
which the books take credit for them, for
those figures are on the basis of a valuation
made nearly 10 years ago. On the other
hand the sheep stations and sugar estate do
not appear to be earning very fat profits.
Central Railway Palace Buildings,
Ltd., which runs the Hotel Sydney:—-
Loss. Deficit. Profit. Deficit.
Apl., ’14.. £ll5l £3089 Oct., ’17£176 £7,833
?<*., 4562 Apl., ’lB.. 2546 5.287
Apl., 15.. 10/2 5634 oct < lB . . 2623 2,664
Oct., ’15.. 1844 / 4/8 . , ’ , ...» , 01 w
Apl., ’16.. 584 8062 A P L > 19 " 1447 4 ’ 217
Oct., ’16.. 831 8893 Reserves.
Profit. Oct., ’19.. 7297 6,080
Apl., ’17.. .884 8009 Apl., ’20.. 8027 15,107*
*Subject to remarks hereunder.
Paid capital is £44,905, but all except £5OOO
of that represents 8 p.c. cum. prefs., and
though most of the cash was put up 74
years ago. no div. has yet been paid. For
the first four years the Hotel Sydney was
run at a loss, but during the 34 years since,
with the assistance of a liquor license which
was denied it in its infancy, the accumulated
losses have been wiped out and £15,107 of
profits have been piled up. This is more
than ample to meet the arrears of pref.
dividends from the beginning to April, 1918;
but the directors have more pressing demands
to attend to before wiping out this liability
to shareholders. The promoters had diffi-
culty in raising the capital necessary to
establish the hotel, and besides depending
upon substantial mortgages had to resort to
an issue of £25,000 of 8 p.c. debentures. The
management has been forced to devote profits
to reducing debts, and this shows the pro-
gress that has been made since the flood of
lOU’s was at its highest:—
Apl., ’l6. Apl., ’l9. Apl., ’2O.
Debentures .. ...£20,000 £22,420 £22,420
Mortgages . . . . 25,000 26,000 17,400
Overdraft . . . . 7,723 5,829 185
Other debts . . . . 4,799 4,456 6,528
Total liabilities £57,522 £58,805 £46,433
Liquid assets .. .. 2,220 5,963 9,335
Excess liabilities £55,302 £52,842 £37,098
Arrears of pref. divs. are not' treated as
liabilities in these calculations. First de-
bentures for £15,000 have now fallen due,
but the directors propose to wipe off the
whole of the debenture debt. When the
co.'was floated the vendors reserved the right
to take up a further £lO,OOO of ordinaries,
and since everything appears to favor their
chances of receiving good divs., after having
sat on the fence for seven years they are
now putting up the cash. The remainder
of the debenture debt is to be financed by a
bank overdraft, and the directors reckon on
saving £1193 per annum in interest.
But while the management is thus not yet
in a position to pay the prefs., the security
for their money is being improved by the new
capital provided by the ordinaries. While, as
a sort of apology for the delay in passing
them a bone, the directors propose issuing
three- and four-year 8 p.c. deposit receipts
in place of the div. arrears to April, 1918,
though they hope, and have reserved the
right, to meet the paper before the due dates.
What are the chances? Besides the arrears
shown above, a further £6385 has accrued
since April, 1918. The prefs.’ divs. call for
£3192 p.a., so if yearly net profits can be
maintained on the recent level (over £16,000)
—and certainly the prospects are much
brighter now a big swag of debt has been
shifted and the breaking of the drought has
removed some of the doubts about the imme-
diate future—the div. arrears and the accom-
modation from the bank should be worked oft
rapidly. Three years’ profits on the present
scale should meet both debts and current
pref. divs. if the whole of the surpluses go
into the cash-box; that is, if nothing beyond
what is independently provided for renewals,
etc., is required in the business. Whether
profits can be maintained is a matter the
investor must decide for himself; the hotel
business is an erratic one, depending on the
patronage of a fickle public. If everything
goes well the ordinaries should have a fine
feast ahead of them, though the prefs. follow
them to 10 p.c. before they can get anything
beyond that. The directors, however, are
smacking their lips over the omelettes before
the chooks have laid when they declare that
the 10 p.c. all round is a “contingency now
happily reduced to a certainty.” The Hotel
Sydney is on a City Council leasehold which
has over 40 years to run. Buildings, equip-
ment and a costly license represent £96,229
of the total assets of £104,165.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of foodstuffs:—
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
Apr/1, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
1908.. £2,234 24 p.c. = £3,648 £53,725
1909.. 9,696 24 „ „ 3,648 £6,048 59,773
1910.. 12,167 3J „ „ .5,473 6,694 66,467
1911.. 17,169 5| „ „ 8,209 8,960 75,427
1912.. 24,454 6# „ „ 10,034 14,420 89,847
1913.. 15,769 74 „ „ 11,214 4,555 94,402
1914.. 27,727 9 „ „ 14,749 12,978 107,380
1915.. 33,105 9 „ „ 16,523 16,582 123,962
1916.. 11,545 74 „ „ 14,594 120,913
1917.. 16,072 8 „ „ 15,832 240 121,153
1918.. 29,663 10 „ „ 21,426 8,237 129,390
1919.. 28,637 10 „ „ 22.580 6,112 135,502
1920.. 27,938 10 „ ~ 22,812 5,126 140,628
Profits have been steadier in this old con-
cern during the past triennium than at anv
other time for at least 20 years. Yet,
though they have been ample to provide
10 p.c. divs., there is nothing very fat about
them, for besides the £233,223 of paid
capital ±140,628 of profits have been accu-
mulated, which makes the 10 p.c. div. equal
to a return of under 6i p.c. on total share-
holders’ funds in the business. The past
year’s results are poor, too, by comparison
with practically the same amount disclosed
for 1914, because since then £91,783 more
capital and accumulated profit has been
put to work. Considering tbe rapid increase
in turnover and the substantial export trade
which is being built up, the figures are
rather disappointing, though no doubt
drought and high prices for raw materials
combined with steadily mounting costs and
fixed prices for some of the co.’s products
have made recent years’ operations difficult.
Swallow and ArielPs disclosed profits, how-
ever, are governed by something more than
actual sales. Everything depends on the
valuation of stocks, for at May 1 raw
materials and manufactured goods repre-
sented £176,209; and a slump of 1 p.c. of
their value would mean (if the co. could
not maintain its selling prices) a loss of
an amount equal to over half the past year’s
profits. These stocks have been included
“partly at market value and partly at cost,”
but whether any (and, if any, what) pro-
vision has been made to protect them is
not clear.
'V
With the fresh capital got in and re-
serves accumulated during the years when
only very mild dividends were paid the
business has expanded well over the past
15 years :—•
Liabilities.
1905. 1910. 1920.
Capital £145,953 £145,953 £233,223
Overdraft . . . . 46,875 50,453 81,488
Mortgages, etc 16,512 12,260 19,780
Other debts .. . f 11,844 20,871 104,513
Assets.
Original purchase .. 148,500 148,500 148,500
Other properties, etc. .. 28,756 37,282 112,255
Rolling stock, etc. . . 14,541 19,709 62,139
Book debts . . . . 25,470 35,352 90,411
Stocks 40,001 58,596 176,209
Cash, etc. .. .. 178 213 3,588
A curious entry is that “Original purchase,
at cost, of freehold lands, buildings,
machinery, plant, etc., £148,500.” For 32
years now that item has remained un-
changed. Thus buildings, plant and other
property at least a third of a century old—
and much of which has no doubt been long
discarded —is still shown at the full price
paid. The whole of the depreciation allow-
ances are deducted from “additions since,”
shown separately by the balance-sheets.
Why the directors maintain this entirely
unsatisfactory practice of displaying fixed
assets is beyond The Bulletin’s compre-
hension. Nor does it understand how
officers can testify that the balance-sheet
“exhibits a true and correct view pf the
co.’s affairs.” No doubt, in the bulk, fixed
assets are worth all the books say they
are, but that is another matter entirely.
Since an unspecified amount of goodwill is
included with the “original purchase,” re-
serves in the table are shown as nominal.
The present value of the very fine business
is no doubt much more than was
paid for the old one 32 years ago; but, any-
way, shareholders’ capital is well protected
by the very large reserves, which must
cover the book value of the old hypothetical
asset many times over. Since 1910 the tally
of assets has grown £293,449, but this has
been attained with the assistance of
£87,270 of new capital and by incurring an
additional £122,200 of liabilities. Assuming
that full allowances have been made for
depreciation, then over the 10 years to the
latest bidance the co.’s position was im-
proved by almost £84,000 after paying an
average div. of somewhat under 8 p.c. The
co. a few months back issued 20,000 new
prefs. and 10,000 new ordinaries, calls on
which will be spread over the current year.
Paid capital at May 1 was £148,410 in
ordinaries and £84,812 in prefs., the latter
preferential to 6 p.c., but following the
ordinaries point for point in any distribu-
tions over and above that rate.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1912.. £537,378 £349,985 £187,393
Nov., 1912.. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913.. 496,936 351,973 144,963
May, 1914.. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63,836
May, 1915.. 503,018 400,215 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478,395 168,643
May, 1916.. 617,754 499,616 118,138
Nov., 1916.. 643,990 602,475 141,515
May, 1917.. 657,387 489,697 167,690
Nov., 1917.. 625,161 500,317 124,844
May, 1918.. 608,822 480,917 127,905
Nov., 1918.. 548,485 462,000 86,485
May, 1919.. 426,466 401,310 25,156
Nov., 1919.. 495,982 402,648 93,333
May, 1920.. 517,779 479,297 38;482
The figures in that last line, or in any other
line in the table, do not give the precise
results for the period which they nominally
cover. Disclosed profits depend on the
facility with which the copper is marketed,
for until it gets its product through the
Electrolytic works at Port Ivembla to the
buyers the Mt. Morgan management con-
tinues its old practice of including stocks
at only £55 per ton, which is considerably
under cost of production. Owing to the
shipping strike and industrial disturbances
at the refinery stocks accumulated, and on
May 30 there were 4432 tons copper on
hand, compared with 2987 tons six months
previously. During the half 5880 tons
blister were produced, so only one-half of
the metal handled during the six months
was realised on. The latest accounts have
benefited, at the expense of previous terms,
to the extent of the difference between
prices received on old stocks and the £55
at which they were included in earlier
balance-sheets (Morgan, on this occasion,
does not disclose the average price actually
got) ; and, on the other hand, the past half’s
profits have suffered to the extent of the
difference between the £55 per ton credited
for the latest very heavy stocks and the
prices which are mow being realised. Hence
the comparatively poor little £38,482 dis-
closed as the term’s profit. What effect
the conservative valuation added to the
piling up of stocks had on the profit may be
viewed this way. At May 30 there were
1445 tons more copper on hand than there
was when the half-year opened. All pro-
duction and mine-smelting costs had been
met, but still it was regarded as being worth
only £55 per ton. Assuming, however, that
when marketed this extra stock realises
£B5 per ton net, a clear profit of £43,350
will be revealed which fairly belongs to the
past half-year.
Seven years ago Morgan, after exhaustive
experiments, discovered that by concen-
trating lower-grade ores before smelting
large bodies which had been previously re-
garded as unpayable could be brought into
the pay line. De Bavay’s put in a 500-ton-
per-day concentrating plant in 1914, aud
since then the co.’s smelting record, in-
cluding Many Peaks fluxes and small par-
cels of customs ore, has been as follows:
, Smelted
Ore Concentrates Copper Gold
tons. , tons. tons. oz.
1915.. 319,458 15,218 9074 116,505
1910.. 281,038 41,312 8306 120,130
1917.. 242,064 36,315 8590 99,135
1918.. 178,137 74,909 7618 86,218
1919.. 135,344 60,607 6267 92.952
1920.. 119,905 58,150 5878 80,578
That dissection indicates the large part
concentration now plays at Mt. Morgan.
Not only has it increased the life.of the
old pink-and-yellow wonder, but it has
proved a more efficient and cheaper process
than the management had reckoned on.
Since the plant was first installed it has
undergone various alterations, and three
years ago a jigging section was added to
extract early in the process the more miner-
alised portion of the ore, the coarse con-
centrates therefrom being fed direct to the
furnaces. Five years ago the concentrating
plant was recovering 88.81 p.c. of the copper
contents of the ore fed to it and 77.7 p.c.
of the gold. During the past half 93.76 p.c.
of the copper and 77.58 p.c. of the gold
were recovered, and these results were not
quite so good as a year ago. Put another
way: the 91,818 tons treated during the
six months to May 30 assayed 2 p.c. copper
and 5.52dwt. gold, and of the 1838 tons
copper thus contained all but 114 tons were
in the three lots of concentrates fed to the
smelters. Of the 25,3590 z. gold 56860 z.
went into the tailings, each ton of which
thus carried almost 2dwt. During the past
year general-manager Boyd and his staff
undertook extensive leaching experiments
with a one-ton-per-day plant. The process
treated the copper contents kindly, but the
pursuit of the yellow metal by chlorination
was evidently not so satisfactory. Having-
tried out the process with a 10-ton unit,
Boyd now declares that the large capital
outlay necessary to put down roasting,
leaching and chlorinating plants would not
be justified.
When the rule was put over ore reserves
in 1916, Morgan had 4J million tons, and
of that there now remain 3,437,687 tons,
assaying 2.59 p.c. copper and 6.lldwt. gold
—about 17 years’ life at the recent aver-
age rate of extraction. Besides these proved
tonnages other bodies beyond where the
yardstick has been applied are regularly
assisting output; for instance, during the
past year 185,205 tons came from known
reserves and 109,280 tons from elsewhere.
But the stone ahead of the picks is an en-
tirely different proposition from what has
been dug out in the past. In pre-war days
Morgan was paying divs. with copper fetch-
ing around £7O, b.ut since 1914 costs have
soared to such an extent that production
would no longer be possible at anything
like that figure. Even during the past half-
year increases in wages were granted which
mean an additional yearly outlay of £32,800
and further demands, now being made will,
if granted, mean another £24,000 p.a. It
is fairly clear that, without the gold pre-
mium, Morgan would require the copper
market to stand well over £9O to show a
profit.
On account of the magnitude of unreal-
ised stocks, when the accounts closed on
May 30, Mt. Morgan was leaning very heav-


C-AC
OA'C'
CAO
HIGH-GRADE SHEET
ll
BRAND
C -/VC?
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from a!l the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street. Sydney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell's Buildings. Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
OA-C-
CA-C-
C-A-C-
CAC-
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
The Shoe Polish Super-Excellent.
Bostock’s Shoe Polish is made from a highly scientific formula of purest ingredients,
is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish, it
PRESERVES the leather.
SIGN
'■ '
SHINE
A GOOD
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
ily on tlie Bank of N. S. Wales, overdraft
and oilier liabilities amounting to £262,265
—£135,000 more than at the previous bal-
ance. Blister alone represented £659,829 of
total liquid assets of three-quarters of a mil-
lion. Those assets, however, do not include
the £151,421 interests in the Electrolytic
Refining Co., Metal Manufactures, Ltd.,
and other cos. Apart from these hold-
ings, the liquid surplus was £487,933,
£56,000-odd less than in November last, for
whereas only £38,482 of profit was claimed
for the six months, £lOO,OOO was distributed
to shareholders, making aggregate dividends
paid since 1886 £9,379,167. Paid capital is
a million, in £1 fully-paids. Seeing their
mine gradually fade away, the Mt. Morgan
crowd are hoping to extend their attentions
to industrial undertakings, as the B. H.
Prop, did, and the ancient Articles are
being remodelled to give the management
the necessary authority to broaden the co.’s
intei’ests.
* * * *
During the past four years Nicholson and
Co., Ltd., has made music pay its share-
holders 10 p.c. divs. on a capital of £140,233,
assisted by over £50,000 of reserves. But
while passing out £49.000 in divs. under
£9OOO of profit has been accumulated. It
is now proposed to capitalise £52,587 of re-
serves, doubling nominal capital to accommo-
date an issue of £105,174 £1 shares paid to
10. s. Paid capital will then staxid at
£192,820, and since lxet profits during the
past four easy years have averaged under
£16,000 p.a., the chances of a continuance of
10 p.c. divs. fade away, unless the directors
have not disclosed the co.’s full earning
powex*, and there is no evidence that they
have not. If the co. should run into a
dull time such as it experienced just prior
to and during the early stages of the war, it
could not safely pay 5 p.c. on the enlarged
capital. Further, the capitalisation com-
pleted, there will be left only about £lOOO of
visible reserves to pi’otect £200,000 or so of
stocks and t.-p. balances. It is to be
hoped the directors have better reasons for
the transaction than appear on the surface.
* * * *
As the Wild Cat sees it:—
Yes, no doubt Director Ourchin reduced the cost
of Federal shipbuilding to £27 per ton against
a foreign private enterprise quotation of £36, hut
—well, there are several huts. The great fake of
public enterprise is to exempt itself wholly or
almost wholly from taxation. Of course it might
be foolish of it to pay taxes to itself. On the
other hand, when Socialism is so near completion
that everything in Australia save one man’s job is
nationalised and exempt from paying interest on
the public debt and so on, and that one man has
to find the whole £44,777,335 per annum, things
will go wrong. And it is foolish not to know how
far they will go wrong. Public enterprise as we
have it is the modified success it is only because
there is so little of it that it manages to pass its
share of the tax burden on to private enterprise.
Suppose the Government shipyard paid Bs. in the
£ income-tax as some rich men do, also local rates,
war-profits-tax, land-tax and legacy duty every time
an owner died, what would be the cost of building
ships? The Wild Cat doesn’t know, but knows
it would be different.
Suppose a Government railway, say the transcon-
tinental, was expected, over and above working
expenses and interest, to pay passenger duty (2
per cent, on the gross takings of town traffic and
5 per cent, on country traffic) as private lines do
in England, likewise land-tax, income-tax and local
rates, fares would be about three times what they
are, and wages much less. And when everything
is nationalised and national property has to pay
taxes, else there will be no revenue, things like
that will happen.
If every Government enterprise were taxed on
the regular scale, then the ways of great men like
Storey and Dooley would be hard, but they might
be honest. What is gained by professing that the
61 per cent, loan railway is losing only 5 per cent,
when it would be losing 171 per cent, but for the
fact that it makes other enterprises pay its share
in the maintenance of the cmmtry ?
Ex-Diggers and other recipients of the war
gratuity have responded well to the proposal
to establish a Returned Soldiers and Sailors’
Woollen and Worsted Co-op. Manufacturing
Co. at Geelong. Already bonds for over
£61.000 have been put into the enterprise,
for which £lOO,OOO is asked. The Federal
Treasury is holding the bonds in trxxst until
the co. requires the money, and they con-
tinue to earn 5 i p.c. net, which is probably
the highest rate of interest any new venture
has ever got on its capital before getting
to business. Brig.-General Smith and his
directors have so far done little organising
outside Vic., but they propose telling N. S.
Wales Diggers all about the scheme at Syd-
ney Town Hall on July 28. The, co. has.
already secured the services of one of Vic.’s
most successful mill managers.
* * * *
It has taken only six months for the
people who floated off Federation and Mt.
Owen, a merger of two gold shows in the
Gloucester district (N.S.W.), to forget what
they declared to be the “main object” of that
amalgamation, which was to “save overhead
charges.” They are now launching, a pup
float to take over several options the co. has
acquired in the same district. Craven
Plateau is the title of the new go, but it
is not proposed to take the float outside
present Federation and Owen interests unless
that co.’s shareholders are cold. The shuffle,
in effect, is merely a means of meeting the
purchase price of the IXL and other leases
and of providing those shows with some
working capital, which the Federation and
Owen on its present basis cannot finance.
Craven Plateau is to be in 80,000 shares of
55.; 40,000 are offered for subscription (to
be fully paid up on allotment), and of the
£lO,OOO cash got in £3500, together with
the remaining 40.000 shares, issued as paid
to 55., pass to the parent, which pouches
£l5OO cash, distributes 20,000 paids to its
holders (one for every three) and hands
around a further 6000 shares as a 15 p.c.
bonus to induce its shareholders to sub-
scribe. The lease-owners evidently get the
balance of £2OOO cash and 14,000 fully-paids.
Assuming that the parent co. had itself set
about meeting these purchase considerations
and getting in a similar amount of working
capital for the IXL, etc., besides reimburs-
ing itself to the extent of £l5OO, an in-
crease of its capital by 54,000 shares of ss.
each (of which 40,000 would have been
subscribed in cash) would have done the
trick and kept the promising colt in its
stable. Instead, Craven Plateau goes forth
on its own with an inflated register of
80,000 ss. shares, all issued and all. fully-
paid, but providing a working capital of
only £O5OO, which is also to finance the in-
evitable battery. It is not surprising that
it is “intended to apply immediately” for
the shares to be listed on ’Change.
Craven Plateau is new country and de-
serves investigation. Though the IXL was
discovered only a few months ago, work in
a 50ft. shaft has disclosed a fissure vein
containing a very rich shoot, giving promise
of length and depth. But as .T. B. Jaquet
puts it, the best that can be said of the
show to date is that it is a “most promising
prospecting venture.” In McGuiness’s, half
a mile away across the creek, indications are
also encouraging. So Federation and Owen
shareholders will probably join readily in
the Craven Plateau paper-chase.
Dorrie Doolette’s Ivanowna Bed Hill
(W.A.) is to be a 100,000 £l-share affair.
Ivanowna reefing has never been more than
a thing of patches, but the patches have
been rich. Doolette’s scheme is to merge
seven adjoining leases from which in the
past 3Q,5000z. were got from 18,721 tons.
Of the co.’s 100.000 shares, 28,500 paids
will go to the vendors, together with £7500
cash. Doolette’s syndicate has also to be
provided for, and ils little wad is 31,500
paids in return for the prospecting done and
for handing over the Red Polly and Mar-
quis claims. This leaves 40,000 contribs.
for the public. Of the reefs, which lie in
a big porphyry dyke, the Melba has been
the pick. Doolette, looking ahead to pos-
sible developments north of the fault line,
works out 30,000 tons as a mining possi-
bility. His runner-up is the Ivanowna reef,
which gives 16dwt. on a fair length of stone.
A feature is that the shoots have a flat
underlie, thus giving a good height of backs;
but the rock is hard and the veins generally
on the narrow side.
♦ * * *
Hampton Plains, Mt. Monger and St.
Ives (W.A.) speculators are now beginning
to view those fields in their true perspective.
The booms were created by a lot of simple-
tons who risked their money and were de-
ceived as to its distribution and employ-
ment. Here is one typical venture, nick-
named locally the Cormorant Consolidated:
100.000 shares at Is. were rushed by the
public, and out of the proceeds £lOOO was
paid to vendors. £3OOO was collared by pro-
moters, and £5OO was swallowed by legal
and preliminary expenses, leaving £5OO out
of the £5OOO subscribed for working capital.
The co. soon ran out of cash and succumbed.
There were instances, too, of the public being
invited in, but owing to the required num-
ber of shares not being taken, registration
was never effected. Scrip, however, was
issued, and things are now in a bad way.
Some shareholders, and bears whose transac-
tions in the open calls showed a profit, are
clamoring for a settlement, but those who
show a loss want to evade their liabilities.
In other flotations where shares were
rushed, promoters allotted themselves or
dummies big blocks of scrip and then un-
loaded them on the excited public at a pre-'
mium.
Westralia is still badly off for mining
labor, and the position is becoming worse.
At Kalgoorlie there is work for 500 men,
and in the country around that centre there
are jobs waiting for at least as many more.
A number of the old underground hands at
Kalgoorlie have come to the surface to stay,
many having gone on the land, and others,
tempted by good prices, are sandalwood-
getting. The new finds have also attracted
labor from the old Golden Mile shows.
«- * * *
Sons of Gwalia’s profit of £52,229 for
last year was nearly £40,000 better than for
the previous 12 months. The maintenance
of profits on this scale, however, is depen-
dent on the continuance of the premium on
gold, which last year amounted to £32,693.
The workings have • now reached a depth on
the underlay of nearly 4000 ft. The eo.'s
cash position is sound, and ore reserves
assure many years of profitable working if
costs do not upset calculations.
* * * *
At Murrin, between Malcolm and Mor-
gans, on the Alt. Margaret field (W.A.), a
venturesome co. has re-opened the old Pro-
prietary workings, and claims to have a
large quantity of payable ore available for
a battery which is now in course of erec-
tion. Years ago the original holder ex-
tracted a lot of gold, but prospective buyers
from the Eastern States decided, after a
little work, that the stuff left behind was
not worth bothering about. Alany West-
ralians who knew the show will he surprised
if it proves to be as good as now represented.
* > * *
North of Afenzies, at Aft. Ida (W.A.),
the Sand Queen Co., which recently worked
out its mine at Comet Vale, has acquired
some old ground which is declared to be
worth 4oz. per ton over a length of 100 ft.
at a depth of 50ft.
Tyrconnel North does not seem to have
gained much from its third move, which led
it from Westralia to Blackwood (Vic.). The
attraction was a yarn that the old diggers
had done little more than scratch the show.
So a tunnel has been extended to 2831 ft.,
and on the way one or two excursions have
been made into side country. Faults are
in plenty, but there are spots where a good-
sized reef shows, though gold is so short
that it takes imagination to see it in the
dish-tails. Ahead of the tunnel is the line
of the Homeward Bound shoot, but if that
does not produce something worth while the
co. will hav-e to go back to prospecting at
2399 ft. and 2719 ft. With the water
out of some of the old surface work-
ings, the search after a bit of good stuff
there has brought to light the fact that the
old hands scooped out more stone under-
foot than records showed. As crushings
came from an lift, reef the co. proposes to
search for the make at the tunnel level.
During the March half sd. per share was
called up, making the 72,300 ss. shares paid
to 3s. 6d. The co. opened its current term
with about £3OO in the till.
* * * *
Since the Victorian-owned Goal, Ltd .
shifted from the Appin area to Alt. St. Vin-
cent it has put in two parallel tunnels and
exposed 6ft. of coal. Meantime, one Fraser
has been trying to coax Bull to put a bit
into the enterprise ; but financial stringency
in London has dashed all hopes. So, with
liquid assets of only £2OOO in hand, it has
been decided to refloat. The scheme is to
reconstruct with 300,000 shares of 10s. each,
giving 50,000 paids" to the Aft. St. Vincent
holders for their claim, and 52,500 paids
going to the holders of the 105.000 £1 paids
in the present show. This will cut their
interest down by half, thus letting in the
contributing crowd, on the basis of two
shares paid to Bs. for every one now held.
It is a drastic writing-down, but with New
York and London cold something had to be
done to stave off what secretary Byrne
terms “the only alternative.” The 2s. call-
able on the 44.930 contributing shares will
not be enough to get even Aft. St. Vincent
into form, but the cash will certainly keep
the auctioneer’s bell quiet for a time.
Afclver, Vic. Sec. for Lands and Director
of Soldier Settlements, euchred the fellows
who pegged out gold-mining claims under
miners’ rights on the compulsorily-acquired
Trawalla Estate. Beaufort.' by getting
through an Order-in-Council excepting the
land from occupation for mineral-groping.
For years miners have believed that t ll ere
is a lead or something gold-bearing on Tra-
walla, but they were not game to back tbeir
faith by -paying surface damage and doing
the other things attendant upon mining on
private property. As soon, however, as the
43,000 acres (which are to be used as sheep-
farms for dinkum Diggers) became techni-
cally Crown land, in came the grctpers with
their pegs, which will now do for kindling-
wood.
Rawang. a two-million-dollar concern
(dollar - 2s. 4d.), is the latest Pratten-New-
man Malayan tin venture. The property
comprises 420 acres alongside the railroad
onlv 20 miles from Kuala Lumpur, the
F.M.S. capital; and in 360 acres Malcolm
Newman estimates 24 million yds. from
which recoveries will average slightly over
lflb. Newman declares that Rawang shows
a bigger yardage of high-grade ground than
any other property he knows. A syndicate,
mostly the two Prattens and Newman
(though Senator Pratten was bought out
some time ago). has been at work on the area
with a 12in. sluicing plant for a couple of
years, and they get half the shares and
$200,000 in cash in the float. The new eo.’s
first job is to equip the proposition with two
14in. electrically-driven pump dredges, simi-
lar to the plants operating at Cock’s Pioneer
(Vic.). Newman, who has returned to Aus-
tralia for a while, estimates that the three
plants will be capable of handling 160,000
c. yd. a month, producing a 36 p.c. profit per
annum with tin at only £2OO London, and
every £5O over and above that price should,
he thinks, add 19 p.c. The Rawang shares
were snapped up before the prospectus left
the presses.
• * * »
Ruwolt’s, of Melbourne, are putting the
finishing touches to Ulu Yam’s dredge, and
the plant is to be sent in one parcel to
Malaya in September. But practically 12
months will elapse before the outfit gets to
work on the 134 million yds. of fib. ground
which A. W. Freeman declares is in the
property.
* * * *
The liquidation of the Tasmanian Copper
Co. has been hung up because the Tas-
manian Metals Extraction Co., of London,
has been fighting for £14,000 compensation
for the nipping off of its ambitions through
the sale of the mine to the Read-Rosebery
crowd. British horsehair has been strug-
gling with the tangle involved in the old
pre-war contracts between the two cos., and
now the liquidator—Tuffin, of Launceston
—breaks the news that the verdict went to
the Tas. Copper Co. However, as the Ex-
traction Co. intends to appeal, liquidation is
still held tip; but Tuffin declares that
the distribution will not be so large as was
imagined when the Read-Rosebery agree-
ment was signed.
* * * *
Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very, little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grksoe'd close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney.; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. —Aim’. [2
* * * *
All buyers of Copper Wires, Copper Cables, Copper
Busbars, Copper Rods, etc., are notified that, as
agents for Metal Manufactures, Ltd., Port Kembla,
N.S.W., we are now in a position to fill all orders
for same promptly. Send to-day for particulars,
prices, etc., to Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydm ,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Advt. i. 2
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.—Advt. [4
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August. 1914 : “The five miles 60
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory.
They are giving good results. Yours faithfully,
(Sgid.) H. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all' State Govern-
ments.—-Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * » «
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Ceil. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.—Advt.
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson <Si Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt,
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.


ON THE HEALESVIIXE LINE.
TICKET EXAMINER; "You’ll hard to pay for that
child. Madam.. He is over three years of age-’*
LADY “He wasn't when we started, my good
man."
DOCTOR; “Yes,, you are much run down. You
need a long rest Try the Canterbury ‘express’
/three times a week.”
DUSTY DANIEL: “ ’Ullo, Smithy, wotchei
doin’ ’ere?”
SMITHY: “Oh, I’m doin’ a tour, of Victoria,
ole boy. All I *ad to do was to disguise
meself as a hit of linoleum'and consign
meself to Middle Park.** - ' ?
Our artist’s suggestion* for going the
pace and giving a rustic touch to travel-
ling on the Gembrook, line.
THE STATIONMASTER’S LOT,
STATIONMASTER (to Commissioner): "As
my hours are only from 6 a.m. to midnight six days'
of the week, and from 6 to 6 on the seventh, I’d ha
glad if yon would .give me a bit'of shuntin’.to fill tit-
me spare time The wife’s afraid that if I-don’t get
some wholesome recreation I. might fall into idle,
dissipated hablta.” -*>
./A pity that ln‘hunting for a new Railway Co m
JESS’" Tm "*■'* » Kit
THE JOYS OF TRAVEL IN VICTORIA.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
df
DEAF?
You can HEAR
by sending for an
Acousticon
ON 10 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
IN YOUR OWN HOME.
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, includ-
ing the Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
who has been using the Acousticon for
more than five years.
The Acousticon will safely and surely
check your increasing deafness and
enable you to hear.
•Lamsoft service Co.
102 Dakingr House, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, Collins St., MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, ZOO High St., dhristc’h.
W.A.: H. Little <& Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARGING ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHHESEMAN.
mSMM
■
)K
ssappw-"" ■
PUUG SLICE
THe
finest
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
UJ
as
UUI
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Edward P. met a namesake and connec-
tion of General Boulanger in Perth. For-
merly in the French diplomatic service, this
Boulanger married an English girl, and, his
health failing, sought a new home in South
Groperland, where he has built a house in
a lonely but romantic spot amidst the mag-
nificent scenery of the South Coast. A
Labor M.L.A. struck the maison de Bou-
langer on a walking-tour, and was so inter-
ested that he mentioned the fact in the
House, with appreciative references to his
host’s courtly hospitality and old-world fur-
niture.
Conan Doyle comes to Australia in Octo-
ber, partly to lecture on spiritualism and
partly to see the test matches. He is a capi-
tal cricketer.
Sydney Mayor Fitzgerald will have a
birthday party next week. He was born at
Essex-street, Church Hill, Sydney, on July
26, 1864, and attended the Marist Bros.’
School in the neighborhood.
The Prince has either a first-rate memory
or first-rate coaching—probably both. River-
ton is a quite unimportant town of S.A.,
and his train did not stop at it on the run
south from Port Augusta to Adelaide.. But
a day or two later, when V.C.’s were being
presented to him in the city, and it was
mentioned that one of them came from
Riverton, that Digger was asked, with all
the enthusiasm of an old-time politician, to
convey to the township the royal regret
at having missed it.
From beneath the Bar table
In securing a £2OOO libel verdict within a few
clays of taking silk W. A. Holman creates a Bar
record for N. S. Wales, if not for Australia. The
ex-Premier’s alleged unfamiliarity with the finer
points of law did not handicap him in the Ashford-
Land case. For one thing he was equipped with *a
junior, in Weston, who is an excellent lawyer. In
dealing with the jury and in “addressing” Holman
proved a ready-made past-master. Much heartened
by his experience the ex-Lands Minister is now
pressing on with further libel litigation, and Holman
will, of course, lead again.
Nicholas Lockyer, formerly head of the
Customs, and now, after 50 years’ public
service, retiring from the Interstate Com-
mission, was a son of that Major Lockyer
who founded the settlement at Albany
(W.A.). But the place was abandoned a
few years later. Nick, the son, got a
junior clerkship in the N. S. Wales
Treasury, and did so well that he married
the daughter of his boss, the Under-Sec-
retary, Geoffrey Eagar. Many years later,
being then a widower, he wedded the
daughter of his new chief, Dr. Wollaston,
head of the Commonwealth Customs.
W. H. Colechin, who by a fluke captured
the Geelong seat for Labor in 1904 and held
it for three years, died at his grocery-shop
in Collingwood last week. Trained in Col-
lingwood Council, he was a terror to talk,
and there was much relief in Parliament
when Geelong dropped him. On one occa-
sion he said, in the presence of the man who
wouldn’t be a telegraph messenger for
Hughes, that “if, f’rinstanee, a Chinkee
were named Ah Watt”— Watt did not let
the illustration get any further, as he
chipped in with the suggestion that it was
more likely the name would be Cole Chin.
Even Iceberg Irvine joined in the smile that
time.
When the royal train, going east, sped
by Ooldea, on the edge of the Nullarbor
Plain, a white handkerchief fluttered a
greeting from a sandhill near the line. It
belonged to the in-
domitable Daisy
Bates, who has
given years of her
life to the care
and study of the
blacks, and is
writing a book on
aboriginal life and
lore that will rival
the magnum opus
o f Spencer and
Gillen. One of
Mrs. Bates’s cor-
respondents is Rud-
yard Kipling. Rud-
yard once thought
of writing a Third
Jungle Book, with
Australia as a set-
ting, but after con-
sultation with Mrs.
Bates he dropped
the notion.
DETHRIDGE,
the new Vie.
County Court
Judge.
A knighthood of the Legion of Honor has
come to Ballarat, but the soldier who won
it, Rene de Tournouer, sleeps in the land of
his fathers. The French-Australian de
Tournouers have a unique martial record.
Rejected for the A.1.F., Rene and his elder
brother enlisted in the French-Colonial in-
fantry and were promoted on the battle-
field and decorated with the French War
Cro6s. They and their father likewise gained
the little wooden cross that is the crown
of the soldier’s sacrifice —the elder brother
in the Champagne offensive of 1915, Rene
at Verdun in 1916, and the father (who was
on Petain’s staff at Verdun) in a Paris hos-
pital in 1917. Another brother returned
to Queensland last month after serving for
the duration of the war, and a sister (also
a Queenslander) put in two years as. an
A.I.F. nurse. A paternal ancestor was one
of Napoleon’s first batch of military knights,
and there has been a Legionnaire in each
succeeding generation of the family.
Dr. George Ernest Morrison left estate
valued at £27,545, exclusive of his Chinese
property. That goes to the widow: the
residue will be divided among his three boys
after their education has been paid for. The
will directs that they are to go to some Eng-
lish preparatory school, thence to Oxford,
thence to Harvard (U.S.A.) or Magill
(Canada), and finally to some university on
the European Continent.
The morning a Sydney Digger named
Bond drew his gratuity the Stork visited his
premises with a daughter. She is to be
known as Ellen Gratuity Bond.
PUTTING HIM IN HIS PLACE.
SKYTE: “Yes, I am a great walker. I once
won a long-distance walking-race.”
FLYTE: “Oh, hut I know a boy who won a
long-distance motor-race.”
Died last week, at 70, Robert Bruce Wal-
lace, founder and editor of Murrumburrah
(N.S.W.) Signal, and town clerk of the
borough. Earlier in life he helped his bro-
ther, Peter Jefferson Wallace, to found
papers in various parts of N. S. Wales, and
most of them are good, kicking concerns to-
day. The brothers knew the game from A
to Z, and could do anything from setting
type or running a machine to getting in
ads. or writing leaders.
Flannery, K.C., who has been leading for
the Crown in the I.W.W. inquiry in Sydney,
was “called” in 1894 and had his earliest
criminal brief as junior to Jack Want (At-
torney-General) and C. G. • Wade (Crown
Prosecutor) in the trial of Frank Butler
for the series of crimes known as the Moun-
tain murders.
Of course Martin Hannah, the Labor
MiL.A. who has done more than any other
half-dozen Vic. politicians for the State's
timbers, had to show the Pripce what can
come from our forests. His personal gift to
H.R.11. was a fishing-rod, hand-made from
yellow stringy-bark and kanuka.
Vic. Police Chief Steward left £19,000.
Three-fourths of the estate goes to the
widow; the rest to her cousin, Beatrice
Lucas.
The luck of life! R.S.-M. Bloor went
from Fiji to the Front and fought all through
the war. He returned to his home with the
M.M. and the knowledge that he had been
recommended for the V.C. Last month he
ran a bit of a .needle into his hand, and
a day or two later the old R.S.-M. was in
his coffin.
When in Perth the Prince attached a
D.S.O. to Lieut.-Colonel Olden, of the Tenth
Light Horse. Olden—a dentist by profes-
sion and in appearance anything but robust
—was at the head of the troopers who were’
first into Damascus, and he received the sur-
render of that ancient aiiu aromatic city
from a descendant of Abd-el-Kader, who
fought the French for 15 years in Algeria
and beat them often. In Gallipoli and
Palestine Olden was the regimental poet,
and he is writing the history of the Tenth
for publication in a book.
“Rounds”: G. F. Bartrop, a former Vic.
P.M., who faded out the other day, was old-
fashioned and formal, but very courteous
and considerate.
Owing to coach-
delay I landed an
hour late in Black-
wood Petty Sessions
Court when a murder
charge was being in-
vestigated 29 years
ago. . I was a raw
junior at the game,
and had to wire my
stuff to a Melbourne
evening paper. Bar-
trop took in the situa-
tion at a glance, and
voluntarily handed me
over his own notes
containing a tip-top
summary of what had
happened before my
arrival. Peace to his
ashes!
Colonel MAY
EVANS, aide-de-camp
to the Speck’s new
Governor.
A. A. Dunnicliffe, who died lately at Croy-
don (Sydney), aged 82, arrived from Eng-
land 64 years ago, and was Sydney
Y.M.C.A.’s first general sec. Fifty years
ago he started an experimental farm at
Burrawang (N.S.W.) and for 20 years or
so produced two blades where none were
before —many of them better blades than
their fathers were. He joined the newly-
founded State Agricultural Department in
1888 and thereafter managed the Bathurst
Experimental Farm for some years.
James Delehanty, dead in Kangaroo
Island at 66, was S. Australia’s best-known
water-waggoner for years. Every visiting
pantomime comedian was instructed that the
mention of his name was a sure laugh. The
Irishman started his Australian career in
Queensland, being on the press in Townsville
and Rockhampton till the Mutual Life of
New York got him as its agent. In its ser-
vice he spent a year or two in Sydney, and
then opened an Adelaide branch. His push-
ful qualities got him the post of secretary
to the S.A. Temperance Alliance, and his
press experience was very useful. Of late
he had lived quietly as a Methodist preacher.
G. M. Down, who died last week, did a
lot of stubborn fighting for Labor in Syd-
ney without getting much thanks for it. lie
stood for Labor in North Sydney when the
residents of that quarter despised the very
name. Again, in 1907, he did spade-work
in St. Leonards, then a hopeless proposition.
Largely through his efforts the seat became
“possible” ; whereupon someone else desired
it, and Down was dropped. He got his
crust as a bootmaker.
Frank Downer and Rupert Ingleby, the
recent partners in the old Adelaide law-
firm of G. and J. Downer, are separating,
the former taking the old name. The
Downer family of the last generation had
four lawyer-brothers. Henry and Harold
were in partnership, but both died long
ago. George was a famed conveyancer, sel-
dom seen outside his office; John a brilliant
advocate and politician. Rupert Ingleby
is son of a K.C. of a former generation.
“T.P.”: Vic. Under-Treasurer Minogue
has a contagious wealth of language, too. At
one Cabinet meeting a Minister, known to
be wowseristic, amazecj, all by thumping the
.table and shouting “I’ll be d —d before I
consent to that proposition!” The then
Premier shook his head sadly. “I really
must speak to Mr. Minogue,” he said.
“W-ealsman”: The full-rigged sawmill
mentioned by “John Drayman” as operating
in the Cascade Co.’s gum forest at Hobart’s
back door has a Victoria Cross among its
portable ironmongery. It hangs on the work-
a-day watch-chain of McDougall, V.C., who
helped to erect the mill and now toils on
the job. So far the jewellery has not been
lost among the hills of sawdust that sur-
round the mill, but the catastrophe might
occur at any moment. Mac. was a sawmill
blacksmith before the war, and for recre-
ation went in for boxing. His people for
several generations were timber-getters at
the Polar end of the Speck, and had their-
own ships. A particularly smart- schooner,
the Annie McDougall, named after one of
the V.C.’s forebears, was wrecked at the
entrance to Macquarie Harbor while wearing
her first coat of paint, and the tops of her
slender masts remained for yea.rs above
water.
The youngest of three Pearce brethren is
a councillor and J.P. at Donald (Vic.), and
he pleads guilty to 82. Brother Dick is a
Ballarat J.P., aged 84; while the eldest, who
farms at Dean, near Ballarat, called atten-
tion to the toughness of the family by cele-
brating his 90th birthday last week. They
came from Cornwall.
Heathershaw, acting-head of the Vic.
police, is the son of a Methody parson,' the
Rev. Henry. Willie Heathershaw, of the
Treasury, is a brother.
SONG OF THE SALT-WATER SAILOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is pleasure on the rivers when the pallid
moonlight quivers
On the surface of the waters lying placid ’neath the
stars;
There is pleasure in the city, with its jact’ries grey
and gritty,
Though the sad sweet eyes of Pity are struct: blind
by bright-lit bars;
There is pleasure in the mountains, in the waterfalls
and fountains,
There is glory in mirages, camouflaging lake and
lea;
But a memory of pleasure — shore-joys quaffed in
fullest measure —
Is the sailor’s greatest treasure that he takes with
him to sea !,
When you’ve stowed your bit o’ dunnage in your
old round-bottomed chest,
And you’ve kissed your girl a sad but fond good-bye,
And you’ve promised in the future you will give the
booze a rest
And to save some cash you really mean to try ;
When your heart is only beating for the things you
leave behind
And for what’s ahead it’s little that you reck,
Then you stagger with your sea-bag to your vessel,
shickered blind,
And you dump your ten years’ gatherin’ on her deck.
Then it’s Here’s to the green sea, the grey sea, the
salt sea!
Good-bye to Molly Bligh, the girl with the ginger
hair !
Man the capstan and ship the bars, and sail away
’neath the Southern stars —
The blue sea, the true sea....and the d—l a truce
to Care!
When you’ve slipped the tug off Nobby’s, and your
throat’s as dry as coke,
And the burly Swedish mate is scowling hard,
Whilst you’re “sweating-up” the halyards, and your
heart is nearly broke,
And your head feels like a bladder full of lard,
You remember, when you’ve finished and the decks
are cleared a bit
And the watches set and running-gear coiled free,
There’s a bottle of the right stuff snugly stowed
inside your kit;
And you’ll drink Hell’s own confusion to the sea !
Then it’s Here’s to the hard sea, the gaunt sea, the
bleak sea!
Drink, dance and take your chance of supping with
Davy Jones!
Man the halyards and stretch the leech, block-
sheaves clamoring each to each,
The dim sea, the grim sea is waiting to claim your
bones!
When the owners on a Sunday to the churches take
a trip,
And they howl their canting hymns “for those at
sea,”
Though their mouths pray hard for sailors, still
their minds are “thinking ship,”
And their puny souls are steeped in blasphemy!
“God A’mighty, guard the sailors!”.... Of their
pious ways they boast,
And the “heads” get branded lords or baronites,
Whilst we starve and sweat to work their craft to
Chile’s distant coast.
And if we go crook we’re “worse than parasites!”
Then it’s Here’s how to God’s sea, the Devil’s sea,
the sweater’s sea;
Man made the ocean trade, but God made the ocean
free!
Hungry kids and hungry wives, so needs we must
when the Devil drives.
The rough sea, the tough sea made spoil to the
hurl o’ we !
You’re a hero when you roll home with your pockets
full o’ tin;
Then the pubs and boarding-masters know your
worth.
You’re a (you know!) drunken sailor when you’ve
done your boodle in, >
And you’re reckoned with the “lowest scum on
earth! ”
If you’re married, hear your missus growl: “Get
work !”,... and give no lip !
If you’re single, all the tabbies turn you down,
And your ears ring with the chorus: “Clear to
Hell and get a ship!”
Till from off its peg you take your sea-bag down.
Then it’s Here’s to the brave sea, the slave sea, the
g ave sea;
Sail, return, spend and earn—it’s all a part o’ the
game!
A spell ashore makes the mom.ents go, life’s one
bloomin’ variety-show. . . .
The green sea, the keen sea, it ever remains the
same !
’longshore.
ALBATROSS.


-JSC
TO B ACCO
iV
'm
m
//
K'/// 1 !! !
%
I
/ i
\\ s ;
\ \
m-
-7
m
HIGHEST / \ CUT
GRADE Kf# TOBACCO
M
« NET WEl&HTVtfarwV' WHEN PACKED
9
M
SMOKE-
4*.
I
I
A
W
"crvic
THE
STANDARD
PIPE
ieiYiS
o *


LADIES! Your Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
A PERFECTLY STYLISH ATTIRE FALLS SHORT OF ITS EFFECT
if your skin is not in harmony.
EVERY WOMAN CAN BE COMELY by attention to those little details,
which no one can afford to despise.
John $
TRANCE
Wi
INTER’S
TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP YOU.
They have proved the greatest friend to womankind.
Powder (3 tints), New Face Cream (2 colors),
Lakshmi Cream and Lotion, Soap, Hair Foods (Oily
and Non-Oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo, and Dental
Cream.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H.
Soul’s, Lassetter’s, David Jones’, Anthony Horderns’,
W. T. Waters’, Farmer and Co.’s, All Departmental
Stores and Leading Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for Booklet and sample of Soap, or
Powder (name the color), or Face Creams, to John
Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney
Office: 26-30 Jamieson Street. Melbourne Office: 218
Queen Street. Adelaide Office: Kithers Buildings,
King William Street.
£Q£KMarqui se.
Meltcmian
IY 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISPI
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
dsf
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath .
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
HIS VERBALIOU.
DOEA DREAMYEYES: “Ike, darling, will you
promise to love me always?”
IKE: “Veil, my dear, I’ll give you my vordt
but I won’t sign nodting.”
“Fag”; The Bridgetown (W.A.) people
tell it differently. Their version is that
when the royal car toppled over Premier
Mitchell’s permanent and reproductive 3ft.
6in. line and brought up on its side, the
train staff smashed the Heir-Apparent’s
window and suggested lifting him out. ‘ Oh,
that be blanked!” was the reply, spoken in
aggrieved accents. “Let me look round and
collect some of these dashed things first.”
But it had to be “gay insouciance” in the
loyal prints next morning.
* * * *
“M.E.”: “Hamer” (B. l/7/’2O) calls for
farewell speeches for casual deserting hus-
bands. Here is the tale of how one truant
came home. Forty-five years ago William
married Charlotte. Fifteen years later he
left her and five children. In the course of
time Charlotte obtained a divorce from the
absent one on the ground of desertion. Two
months ago one daughter decided to give a
party to celebrate mother’s golden wedding
(no mention of the Divorce Court was
made). Others of the family were invited.
There was much consternation when another
daughter casually mentioned. “I’ve brought
father.” Father walked in. Charlotte looked
all the things she had been thinking for 35
years. William walked up to her and said,
“Well, Topsy”—her old pet name—“do you
remember this night 50 years?” Last month
they married again. Both are over 70.
* * * *
A Sydney jury last week told ex-N.S.W.
Lands Minister Ashford to collect £2OOO as
damages for libel from the Land. The
amount probably astonished even Holman,
K.C., who led for his friend and late col-
league. Nobody knows what was at the
back of the jury’s mind, of course; but
somebody probably knew—and if one knew
the others were soon told —that Ashford was
invited to become leader of the party which
the Land was backing. He was at that
stage the man who ought above all others
to be in Parliament; when he decided tc
stick to Holman he apparently became a
different sort of person altogether. Still,
seeing that there was no suggestion at all
that Ashford was personally corrupt—
merely that he yielded to party pressure
and purchased certain admittedly good land
for soldier settlement —the damages were
piled high. Maybe the jury believed that
party politicians never think of votes when
they are spending the public money, and
that to suggest that one of them did so is
to mark him out as a singularly degraded
specimen. If so, the jury was never a.
politician itself.
* * X- *
“Dr. Nil”; An impression—before it
fades. To-day as the crowd of some two or
three thousand men in mufti and uniform,
horsehair and mortar-boards, poured down
the gravel walk at about the pace of a
glacier, the cinema-cameras clicked, and the
air was redolent of sunshine and cigarette-
smoke. The Prince was holding a lev6e, the
day after his arrival in Adelaide. I was in
the crowd. Acquaintances occasionally
hailed one another, generally in a church
whisper, over the shoulders of strangers.
Some, more fortunate, found themselves
alongside people they knew and were able
to put in the time talking flapdoodle. Any-
thing was better than standing still in
silence. At last there was a definite though
slow movement to the front. And just when
each asked the other, “Do we have to have
two cards or one?” and “Shall we carry our
hats or leave them on the lawn?” and
“Which hand do you shake?” we found that
the eight-abreast formation had dwindled
down to six, then to four, to two. to one,
and we were in single file walking through
a marquee past a young man in khaki.who
just stood and looked at us as we passed
by (no cards; no names; no nothing!), and
gave a friendly nod with the expression of
a pretty, shy girl at her coming-out dance.
As I passed him and made my bow, the
thought that struck me was; “I wish I
could have looked like that 30 years ago!”
* * * *
“0.1 v.” : There was a certain grim humor
in the longevity of ex-Empress Eugenie.
She was “poor Eugenie” when I was a
boy—the misfortunes of France and the
sadness of her exile were supposed to have
crushed her. Then she became “poor
Eugenie” the widow, with no consolation
left save her son—except, perhaps, the sure
knowledge at last of where her giddy hus-
band was passing the night. Then her only
son died, and the heart of the fond mother
was said to be quite broken. Having
nothing left to live for, she would now
proceed to die, bequeathing much of her
wealth to her young friend Princess Beat-
rice, it was said. Beatrice married a Bat-
tenberg, and departed this life long ago ;
but “poor Eugenie” lived on—lived on for
40 years more. The truth was that, though
charitable enough, the lady was shallow and
had no capacity for a great sorrow. His-
tory may now be more frank about her
part in that war with Prussia which gave
monarchy its death-blow in France. Louis
Napoleon had misgivings about the issue:
his smiling wife had none. In a letter writ-
ten to a friend she spoke of the physical
largeness of a party of Prussian swankers
who had lately been in Paris on diplomatic
business. “Such fine, tall fellows these Ger-
mans are,” wrote Eugenie. “When I re-
marked it to Louis he said, ‘They are the
people of the future.’ Bah! the future is
not yet.” But it was only five years off as
far as France was concerned.
* * * •*
“Mirza” : That’s a fine article by “Mac-
quarie Street” (B. 8/7/’2O), wherein he
shows the utter uselessness of Latin in his
profession. Introduced when. the off-
spring of Witchcraft and Alchemy masquer-
aded as the Art of Healing, Latin served a
useful purpose in differentiating the empiri-
cal charlatan from the unscientific, septic
and generally unsuccessful barber to whose
mercies surgery was handed over. _ It was
the cloak of ignorance and the platinum-set-
ting of pomposity._ But nowadays it is the
quintessence of futility to foster the coma-
tose language, when the student could be
learning bedside manners or motor-driving.
A good English education is a great asset,
RIGHT AHEAD.
“Are you sure this tram goes to the beach?”
“All the way, missus.”
“But it’s only got ‘ Junction ’ on the side.”
“Take no notice of that, mum —we ain’t
gain’ sideways to-day.”
especially when, as at exams., the student
has to place his profound views before pro-
fessors. Most of our exhibition-winners
have had a first-class training in English,
and I know one embryo med. who gave up
reading his physiology textbooks a week
before August in order to practise Ilazlitt’s
style. He headed the pass-list, too.
*-»«■*
“Memsahib”: I have long since' ceased to
be astonished at the amazing Diggers. The
other day a big Australian, a trifle under-
weight and hectic, waxed enthusiastic over
the fancy-work with which he was beguiling
the weary months in a sanatorium while
he fought T.B. He described in particular
a bed-spread into which he had worked 20
miles of embroidery silk. “What were you
before the war?” I asked. He was a
watchmaker, and that, I thought, explained
it fill. Next day another Digger with a
very sick heart told me all about his fancy-
work —drawn thread, silk embroidery, lace-
making, beadwork: it all came alike to him.
I asked him the same question. “Oh. I
was a butcher before the trouble started,”
he said airily. And that left me without
a stitch of explanation to my name.
* * * *
“S.P,”: A new pest is found in Melbourne
pubs. It is the undersized child of Slum-
dom who seizes hold of any
likely-looking customer’s boots,
spits on a filthy-looking rag and
makes some sort of attempt to
polish them. Before the unwill-
ing customer has time to decline
the kid’s services and saliva, a
grimy hand is held out for pay-
ment. My first acquaintance
with one of the bootlickers was
disastrous. Old Filmup and I
were just in the middle of our
third drink, and mutually enjoy-
ing some reminiscence, when,
feeling a fumbling at my boots,
I let go a kick. It landed in
the middle of a too-enterprising
bootlicker’s chest, and it cost me a couple of
bob to settle the charge of attempted murder.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” : The Prince is getting good value
for the 10-frane piece he “lent” to an ear-
biting Digger in Belgium. A tall, hard-faced
soldier who turned out to one of the functions
reminded H.R.H. of the money-lending
episode. “You lent me 10 francs in Belgium
—do you remember?” he said. “I’d like to be
allowed to repay it.” The Prince recalled the
incident, but refused to take the money. Ho
made a lot of the Digger, however, and
talked with him for some time —without men-
tioning that three other warriors had already
introduced themselves to him as the ldentica.
borrower.
* * * *
“Copabella” : Battling among the churches
of Southern Victoria just now is a little
weather-beaten enthusiast named Dyer-
of Groote Island, m the
Gulf of Carpentaria. He
is whooping up monetary
support for the Church
of England Missionary
Society in general and
machinery for his abo-
riginal plantation on the
island in particular.
Groote Island, unknown
to all but a few trepang-
fishers of Torres Strait
and the 300 or so “salt-
water” (probably canni-
bal) blacks which in-
habit its 400 square
miles, and unexplored
except on its edges, re-
presents a Common-
wealth experiment _in
dealing with the aborigi-
nal and half-caste pro-
blems of the Far North.
The Government has
handed over the island to
the C.M.S., and told it
to take what blacks and
brindles it wants (or can
get) and go ahead with
its reclamation, education
and cultivation of them
and their offspring. The
island’s isolation, it is
hoped, will keep out the
bad white man and his
firewater, while the mis-
sionary management
turns the abos.’ thoughts
to agriculture and right-
living—not forgetting a dividend or two
from crops, timber and manufactures.
ON THE SCENT.
“You don’t say you have managed to secure
a flat?”
“Not exactly. But we’re the first in after a
couple who have just taken it for three
years.”
(Continued on page 18.)
GLASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Without the glasses on my nose
I know not how the great world goes—-
Who sings for pride, who looks for trouble
Who flies the kite, who pricks the bubble,
Or how the play of pounds and dollars
Affects the market price of collars.
These simple lenses are to me
High windows over land and sea.
Strange are the uses found for glass.
Its tinkle bids the swift hour pass;
And through the tinted lens of wine
The coarsest threads of life grow fine,
Bill seeks one glass to drown his care,
And Agnes one to'braid her hair,
While crystal gazers conjure up
From glass the winner of the Cup.
Yet greater things shall men devise
Betwixt sure knowledge and their eyes.
For curve to curve the glasses lean
To show what smallest atoms mean ;
And ray on ray the far lights pour
To bright glass centres ever more,
Till, with some slight improvements, soon
We view men walking in the moon.
The cat has only eyes for night,
And blunders in the noonday light,
Yet this defect we.soon may cure;
And goggled cats of vision sure
Ere long may read with noddings sage
Plain words upon the printed page
©f fiction with a moral tone
That strikingly reflects their own.
And grander things shall come to pass
Before we leave the Age of Glass.
New spectacles shall grow to fit
The man and mood on which they sit.
No longer shall we blindly guess
Through mists of party blessedness
But see—and seeing smite with bricks—•
The hidden heart of politics.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
OTHER TIMES, OTHER SENTENCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A sentence of one month’s imprisonment was
imposed on the seaman Walsh, convicted of malici-
ously wounding. His victim had to be sewn up
witli 30 stitches.”
In bygone times the criminal, with callous contempt
of right, .
Would tackle the peaceful citizen in fair (or unfair)
fight; _ _
And as they struggled to and fro the citizen always
knew
The strength of things, when the other hissed: “I’ll
swing, you , for you.”
But nowadays the thug who wields a murderous
gun or knife
Is much more moderate in his threats. He still
makes bids for life,
Yet only needs to swear by Koran, Testament, Book
or Grunth:
“I’ll take my oath I’ll do for you —if I have to go
up for a month.”
N.S.W.
D.


iiiiiniiiiiHHitni
ZtZ.
il
iiiiiiuii»iiiiiiiiiiHtmiin»iiiiiiiiiiHiiuiiiiiii{ii»iii»HiiiiiH»iinmiiiiiiimiiiinnniiiinmiHiiniiimimMinimuiiiiiiiniinnmmi«numniiifiiiiii»tiiiinitminHimiumiiiiim
r
1
1
s.
Pd
sJihiiiiih
illinium*
n*v
WHISKY
Whisky is good whisky
if it is always
DISTINCTIVE—DESIRABLE-
DEPENDABLE.
Distinctive. The commonplace in life or whisky
never pleased man yet—it is the something different which
•always appeals. The flawless flavour of Dewar's instantly
tells of a worth born alone of peerless purity and dis-
criminating distillation. Nature's gifts or man's wit could
never devise a whisky of more decided distinction.
Desirable. Charm and desirability always go hand
in hand, for without charm nothing is desirable. Dewar's
is a fountain of fascination—its triumphant quality per-
sistently pleases but never palls. The matured merits of
its magnificent mellowness may be enjoyed year in and
year out with never a trace of tiredness of taste.
Dependable • The power to inspire confidence is
one of the greatest assets of whisky as it is of man.
But there must be a solid foundation of worthiness.
Dewar's is always the same grand and genial spirit
ever constant in its promotion of good-fellowship. So
unchangeable is its seductive charm that men rightly
call it
THE SPIRIT SUPERB.


Exclusive
Stewart Dawson’s
Outrivalling in Variety and Splendor the
Richest Displays of the World’s great
Commercial Centres.
Stewart Dawson’s rare Diamonds are set
in Pure Platinum, and are without doubt
the last word in Quality and Value.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
D992s—New Design
Single-Stone
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15-ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
KB24—Beautiful
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, £25.
KlB2 Elegant Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2l.
IvlBo—Choice Design Platinum Faced Dia-
mond Set Brooch, £B/10/-
KlB3 Artistic Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2O.
KBlo—Fine Quality
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15ct. Gold,
£3O.
K 997 —Dainty De->
sign Diamond Set
Circle Brooch,
Platinum and
15ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Mounting's
Rare Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember high-grade stones are a per-
manent investment.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
“Haurak” : Is it to be wondered that the poor
shipmaster occasionally makes for the wrong
side of the continent when a country is fool
enough to have two ports of the same name?
And that isn’t the only trouble. In the
Australian Pilot, a publication specially
issued for the guidance of master mariners
by order of the Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty, the following note is made under
heading .Innisfail (N.Q.) : “There is a wire-
less-station open to the public from 9 a.m.
to 11 p.m.; cal] letters Y I N.” True, the
local bodies at Cairns and Innisfail (for-
merly Gerald ton) have agitated long and
patiently for a wireless-station to keep them
in touch when, by reason of cyclones or
floods, the land telegraph is down. But it
isn’t there yet, and, as all wireless-operators
know, the call-letters YIN are those of
Geraldton (W.A.).
* * * *
“Stripes”: My friend was only an “unoffi-
cial soldier” as far as the A.I.F. was con-
cerned, but he was (and is) all grjt. He
stowed away in one of the early transports
and got to Egypt, where he bowled along
to a Q.-M. store and demanded equipment.
He was then merely 13; and as nobody knew
what to do with him he was “unofficially
attached” to the _.
Maori 1 a n d
A. S. C. Later
he got to Salis-
bury Plains, and
there was
“unofficially at-
tached” again,
this time to the
sth Brig a d e
SHE WAS NO GAMBLER.
E DITH: “When it comes to love I wouldn’t
give a thought to how much a man is
making.”
ETHEL: Neither would I, dear. What
you really want to know is how much
he has made already. There’s no use
taking chances.”
Machine-Gunners. The greatest trouble
that we had with him was to keep
him out of stunts. Fleurbaix finished
his gallop for a time; he got knocked
and was returned to Australia —still only
15. For a while he was engaged on the
recruiting staff, but was fired for speaking
too strongly to the men who hung back.
Failing to join the A.I.F. again, he pleaded
for a passage to Durban, which he man-
aged to alter to a trip to England. There
he joined the Imperial Forces, finishing the
war with the Royal Engineers in Mesopo-
tamia. He is only 4ft. llin., and is still
A PHILANDERER.
“Why have you quarrelled with Georget”
“Because he proposed to me last night."
“Well, there's no harm in that!”
“But I accepted him the night before.”
but 18; and because he never “officially”
enlisted in the A.I.F. —although he saw more
service with it than many a man who has
full benefits —he is regarded, for repatria-
tion purposes, as an Imperial soldier. Sent
to an employer he struck trouble, and was
cut out of all benefits because (this is his
version) someone sneeringly observed that
soldiers’ badges could be bought for six-
pence,” and the four-foot-eleven of fighting
instinct "passed him one.” After that,
until he found friends who took up his case!
the game youngster was on the verge of
sleeping in the Domain; and that is a fate
that should not be allowed to happen to a
boy who struggled so hard to do the fighting
that some full-grown men so successfully
dodged.
* * * *
“Spare Corp ’: Barely did an A.I.F. officer
roar at a Digger for failing to salute, but
it happened once at a high-class London
restaurant, where the prices matched the
reputation of the establishment. Two Dig-
gers passed the table of this officer, who was
just about to depart, and he rebuked them
publicly when they neglected to salaam. They
didn’t reply politely,
and the officer hotly
remarked: “I’ll soon
see about you. Here,
waiter,! There’s a
military policeman
just outside; go and
No, I’ll go my-
self !” And he stamped
out of the place. The
restaurant was sur-
prised when he didn’t
return. But he met
the Diggers a couple
of days later and
apologised profusely.
lIJs explanation was
that he had discovered
he had not enough
money with him to
pay the awful bill,
and to get out of an
awkward situation he
had faked the row which enabled him to
leave the place without facing the cash-
desk.
* * * *
“'Ben Trovato”: The reference to Hardt
Singh, a glass of Yan Yean and his oath
(B. S/7/’2O) reminds me of my visit to the
Sacred Cow at Benares. My mate and I
had just dropped in from Darjheeling, where
we were lucky to hit a clear day and see
the Himalayas. Our guide, Mohammed
Ali, roused us at 5 a.m. to go sight-seeing
on the Ganges. Our first halt was made at
the Golden Temple of the Sacred Cow, so
called because the dome was covered with
20ct. gold half an inch thick, and the temple
was the stable of a small, intensely fat
heifer, the result of relationship between a
polled Angus and an Alderney. The god-
dess stood up to her udders in her own
ordure, and was hung from nose to tail
with gardenias and tuberoses, probably to
drown the other odors. Every worshipper
brought the cow a wreath or garland of
flowers, where a nice carrot or a
swede turnip would have been more
use. _ The Sacred Cow wore golden
nose-rings and ear-rings and anklets, and
was closely attended by four priests of her
order, lightly dressed in a single cotton gar-
ment. Our guide had hired two Sikh
policemen to escort us through the temple,
because everybody belonging to the cult was
fanatical, and a smile from a visitor invited
a knife-thrust. One could imagine a sect being
formed amongst Gulf squatters to raise a
fane for the worship of a bull weigh-
ing 15cwt. that cost £3000;' but this
scrubby-looking warrigal heifer didn’t
seem to invite prayers or praise. Then
we left the temple and wandered along
the bank of the Ganges, and saw within
the space of 20 yards a corpse being burnt,
the ashes of another being cast into the
river, a dead body in funeral clothes launched
for its long float down to the Hooghly and
the sea, a Hindu bathing and drying himself
with a piece of string meant to represent a
towel, and a young girl, more than half
naked, taking a brass bowl of water from
alongside the bather. You couldn’t see all
that at Manly in a year.
* * * »
A practitioner sees the Millennium
The Maoriland branch of the B.M.A. has produced
an almost revolutionary scheme for the betterment
of the profession, and, incidentally, of the patient.
Doctors have to pay the grocer’s bill just as if
they were bootmakers, and the stringency of post-
war conditions has taught them that the hospital
system under which they have worked for years
is fundamentally wrong, and that the difficult and
often thankless services performed free of charge
are a magnificent mistake. Unpaid medical service
on the part of the visiting staff was the foundation
on which the system was built up, but it has out-
lived its usefulness, so the first plank in the new
M.L. platform is the abolition of the honorary staff
of public hospitals and the substitution of a part-
time paid service. The idea is to permit the doctor
to engage in private practice when he is not occu-
pied with his hospital duties. This, it is hoped,
Will prevent him developing into a machine as he
would be likely to do if he were a full-time State
servant, besides allowing him time for study and
making him a sounder practitioner, as well as help-
ing him to meet his profiteering landlord every
month.
Readers of The Bulletin will find nothing new in
the statement of the committee that “the enormous
development of specialisation has made the work of
the general practitioner burdensome, and the measure
of his success is his deprivation of leisure for
recreation and study.” Nor is anybody likely to
quarrel with the suggestion that a modified form of
national service should be initiated outback, the
doctors being under the control of a Health Depart-
ment and receiving a salary commensurate with
their ability and the services expected of them. Fur-
ther, the committee emphasises the need for the
erection of rooms for the reception of private patients
within public hospitals. This has been rendered
absolutely necessary by the continued abuse of
hospital privileges everywhere. The idea is, of course,
old, and is already, indeed, carried out to perfec-
tion in R.C. hospitals. There are flourishing private
wards and separate rooms within the grounds of
these institutions, where for a moderate fee (three
guineas per week, instead of the six charged by
outside private concerns) the patient can have his
own doctor and receive adequate nursing attention,
the fees collected going towards the upkeep of the
hospital. The doctor makes his own terms with
his patient. One would scarcely think that rational
people could have any objection to a proposition of
this kind applied to public hospitals in town and
country; but we in Sydney tried it 15 or 20 years
ago and got into no end of rows in consequence. We
had a couple of private wards in a suburban public
hospital, but were only allowed to make use of
them on the strict understanding that extra nursing
fees were charged and that we received nothing for
medical attendance. Times have, however, changed ;
and now that Maoriland has acted as a pioneer, we
may expect the mention of similar reforms in Aus-
tralia in the near future.
* * * *
*‘Lex”: One Septimus Holmes, the co-re.
in a Sydney divorce suit brought by a
returned soldier, exasperated Justice Gordon
almost beyond coherent expression. There
are two sides to Septimus. On weekdays
he is a racing man; on the Sabbath a
churchwarden. The evidence left no doubt
in any rational mind that misconduct had
occurred, and a rule was granted. Yet in
the middle of his. liaison and in a letter
making arrangements for their next meeting,
Holmes wrote:—
....I hope you went to communion on Sunday, as
I am going, so as to be doing it the same time as
you.
Is this really the nauseating hypocrisy
which the Judge condemned it for? Or may
it not be a manifestation of that common
phenomenon, the genuinely religious mind
divorced from ethics? The traditional
Spaniard who doffs his hat while passing a
church on his way to commit a murder may
be a sincere believer. And many an old Cor-
nish “chapel” service has been interrupted
to allow of a bit of wrecking to be done. On
the other hand it is indisputable that some
of the most moral of men have been agnos-
tics or atheists. What can it all mean except
that religion has little influence on morals?
And that Holmes was not a hypocrite at all,
but possibly a sincere believer?
* * * *
While Judge Ewing was employed on the
Noz'thern Territory Commission his salary
as a Tasmanian Judge was divided between
his brothers Nichoils and Crisp. This
arrangement was considered a fair thing,
as these two Judges had extra work to do
while Ewing was away. But the point was
raised that the salary of each of the three
Judges is fixed by statute, and that the
CURRENT FASHIONS.
“I’ve written to my dressmaker a dozen
times to send my new frock, and it
hasn’t arrived yet.”
“Perhaps you ought to enclose a stamped
addressed envelope for it.”
acceptance by any Judge of any other pay-
ment was a breach of judicial etiquette or
morals or something. However just when an
interesting row was promised somebody
remembered that the Prince was coming, so
the dispute was left in a heap on the table,
and was probably swept into the waste-
paper basket by the charlady next morn-
ing. There has been no notification in
the Gazette that the money has been re-
turned to the Treasury by two conscience-
stricken Judges, though it has been noted
that a similar arrangement is not in opera-
tion while Ewing is loaned to N. S. Wales
on the I.W.W. case. The' chances are that
he wouldn’t have been loaned at all had not
Tasmania been very short of cement, and
the N. S. Wales Government had a few
hundred tons it could oblige Premier Lee
with.
PAT AND GWEN AND FRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Norton lived contentedly at number forty-five,
Ull there came to live next door to him a humming
human hive.
There were but three sweet children, though they
sounded more like ten—
Three little orphan children, namely Pat, and Fred,
and Gwen.
Those darlings lived with grandmamma, and ruled
the ancient dame,
And Norton daily they involved in some destructive
game.
They tore the fence, uprooted plants, and killed his
Persian cat.
Three wild, untrammelled heathen were this Fred,
and Gwen, and Pat.
John Norton’s life they filled with fear and tribula-
tion dire.
They broke his bedroom windows, and they set his
shed on fire.
They tripped him with a clothes-line, scattered clods
about his head—
To John there were no demons left but Pat, and
Gwen, and Fred.
He sold his house and stole away to dodge his
mortal foes,
Lodged in a distant suburb, and became a boy of
Flo’s.
Flo served the drinks at Barton’s. John was hap-
piest of men
With darling Flo, and now relieved of Pat, and
Fred, and Gwen.
They married, had a honeymoon, and came again to
town.
With Flo in a new villa home John Norton settled
down.
Flo told him: “Dear, a widow I, when with my love
I wed.”
She brought her darlings home to him. They’re
Pat, amd Gwen, and Fred!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Raise Your Heifers and Save Your Milk
/
i
r
f i\
"S ///'-'"//A r ////'// ///^,
fj
w
m
K
ft
/
<2
is
ER
/ /
i
/./
I
rssw -
n
\
m
»10
i
v^J
J, , I
• ~».•<■»•♦;
I
r !
1
*>
TV.
MEGGITT L,
@sf
/
xJi
E
o
*0
C/ J/.F
1
By the Use of W CALF FOOD.
Calf Food is scientifically mixed and blended in proper proportion. It contains the
food elements requisite for rapid growth and proper development.
Calf Food is a perfectly-balanced ration that will raise thrifty calves at less cost.
By results is cheaper.
Calves raised on ® grow properly and develop sound constitutions. You will raise
better calves, and save money.
Agents:—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen
Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street,
Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Ltd.,
Sussex Chambers, Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
BOOKLET A, ON SCIENTIFIC FEEDING, MAILED FREE.
PNSKD«IMfI(.
/AEGGITT L TD
PARRAMATTA
OUeboyon ike bay
guarantees quality ”
jC&fUted
HEAD OFFICE KING ST SYJM-LY^ife-.PaiTamaita)
MEGGITfS
UNSEEOOUMfAI.
IMI
/AEGGITT L t .°
PARRAMATTA
boy on the baa
guarantees qualify


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
LADIES! GENTS! CONFECTIONERS!
Make Sweets at One-third the Price
you now pay for them.
The man or woman who has not the courage to
make a business venture, and the grit and determina-
tion to push it to success, will always be found
the underpaid servant of the fellow who did have
the courage to make a start. Home confectionery
manufacturing by our system offers the greatest
opportunity in the country to-day for engaging
in business for yourself with only a couple of pounds
capital. The following few lines may help many of
you who have been hit rather hardly by the new rise
in prices of confectionery to write for details of our
instructionKEEP A-GOIN’.
When you strike a thorn or rose
Keep a-goin’.
When it hails or when it snows,
Keep a-goin’.
’Tain’t no use to sit and whine
When the fish ain’t on your line:
Bait your hook and keep on tryin’—
Keep a-goin’.
For particulars write to
R. & E. CROAKER,
Confectionery Instructors,
UNIVERSAL CHAMBERS,
325 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
To those in Victoria. —Our Showrooms are open
daily from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Inspection invited.
King George IV
Iw^ U -m WHISKY
11
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
TOO MUCH FOR THEM.
ARTIST : “And this is my master-
piece. I'm going to call it
‘ Bushrangers Surprised at
Sunset.' ”
C RITIC: “Fes. poor beggars—no wonder it
astonished them!”
“Orara”: Sometimes the dog will not let
his best friend handle him when he is caught in
a rabbit-trap. Just throw your coat or a bag over
him, and he will be as quiet as a lamb.
* * * *
“Riom”: Saw an old hand picking the
best of a litter of pups. This was the procedure.
He carried the pups outside the shed. The mother,
after sniffing them, carried them in again. The
operation was repeated three times, the mother
always starting with the same puppy. “This one,”
the old’un averred, “is the pick of the basket.”
Anything in it, or is it another bush superstition?
* *• * *
“Leo Lear”: Bush superstitions? Right!
No. 1, the death-adder yarn—that the crawler stings
with his tail. Convince many bushmen to the con-
trary and I set you No. 2 —that young eels (or
elvers) are somehow derived from horse-hair. This
leads up to No. 3, that eels are born in fresh-
water ponds and swamps. If you survive these three
without a bung eye, try to prove to any scrubber
that his watch doesn’t keep the correct time and
you’ll stop one. Now, how about the natural-his-
tory superstitions of the town? I’ll give you No. 1—
that the politician bird feathers his nest.
* * * *
“Dido”: The police had been informed by
an excited voice, per ’phone, that Mrs. Diggs had
thrown herself into the sea off a small jetty at St.
Hilda. The excited voice claimed to be that of
Mrs. Diggs’s husband. Mr. and Mrs. D. had quar-
relled, and Mrs. D. had gone forth in the night,
rashly importunate, and hurled herself into the
ocean. The hysterical voice mentioned time and
place. The police took certain paraphernalia and
went to recover the mortal remains of Mrs. Diggs.
The night was dark, and there was no sign of any-
body about; but as they made a few preliminary
passes over the bed of the buy with a rake, a woman
came along, and asked the nature of the manoeuvres.
“We are dragging for the body of a Mrs. Diggs,”
said an officer. “Know anything about her?” “Oh, I
wouldn’t trouble if I was you,” said the woman.
But they continued to trouble for a quarter of an
hour. Then the woman returned and repeated her
sage advice: “I say, policeman, I wouldn’t trouble.”
The officer in charge suspended action. “Wouldn’t
you? What do you know about it? Why wouldn’t
you trouble?” “Well, if it’s Mrs. Diggs you are
after, I wouldn’t.” “But why?” “Because,” said the
female dully, “I’m her!”
* * * *
. “Bill R.”: “Baree” (B. 24/6/’2O) wants
to know why dog will not eat bandicoot. Has he
ever noticed that Towzer likewise gives the tilt of
contempt when offered pig? There is much yiddish-
ness in a dog, and anything with a porky flavor is
an abomination to him. The dingo, less fastidious,
will tackle anything coming in his way that hasn’t
the warning scent of human hands about it. Foxes
when hungry often chance it, and die for their sins.
“Azac”: “Baree” (B. 24/6/’2O) asks why
dogs refuse to eat bandicoot. This is something new
to me; but I have often tried to feed fox-meat to
them, and unless they were starving they always
refused it. Even when it was boiled they only
tackled it sparingly. If the bandicoot were a car-
nivorous animal, I could understand the dog's re-
fusal. One carnivorous animal will nearly always
object to be served with the flesh of another meat-
eating animal. The reason is not hard to explain.
Dogs, for instance, being carnivorous, do not like
the meat of other flesh-eaters, for already
the body of the dog has sufficient of the substances
that would be supplied by the eating of the flesh of
another carnivorous beast. On the other hand the
flesh of non-meat-eating animals is different in com-
position hnd contains certain substances which are
continually required for the building up of the body
of the dog.
* * * *
“Emma Emma Esses”: The formula
“Rox” gives (B. 17/6/’2O) for clearing muddy water
does all that he claims and a lot more besides. In
addition to making the water transparent, alum
imparts to it a sour taste, hardens it, and renders it
practically useless for washing purposes. Drop half
a pint of ashes into a bucket of dirty water, stir two
or three times, and allow it to settle for half-an-hour.
There’s the water pure and clear, and fit for all pur-
poses.
* * * *
“Mirza”: Before “Bill o’ Costs” and
“0.K.” cheat the grave by cremating one another,
let them come along to my funeral. The little 6
,x 2 I mean to inhabit is not an elaborate oak-and-
silver casket produced at the usual ruinous rates
of Crape Bros., but a huge bottle blown to speci-
fications by our local glass-worker. When they
have seen me “bottled” for the last time, our family
solicitor will pour over me four tins of absolute
alcohol, accumulated during a somewhat variegated
career, put in the cork and melt a couple of gallons
of sealing-wax over the top. The idea of cremation
leaves me cold. It may be more aseptic and sani-
tary, even more pleasant for a bloke. But, if the
executors do their duty, it can’t be denied that
bottling leaves one for ever in good spirits.
“Billy T.”: When I awoke on the first
morning on the farm, I imagined there was the deuce
and all of a row going on between Ramsey senjor
and someone whom I pssumed to be very little and
very old. Ramsey, evidently in a beast of a temper,
was saying: “I’m just about fed up with you, see. For
two pins I’d take an’ screw yer dam’ old neck, here
and now. See. Dam’ if I wouldn’t.” The very
old voice replied: “Rats! Rats! Rats!” “Who’s
took care of yer all these years, see! Who’s feedin’
yeh and keepin’ yeh—see!” “ Rats!’* “And what
does a man get fer it? Nothin' but dam’ impedence
—see!” “Who’s a d —d old fool?” piped the aged
m THE SHEEP COUNTRY.
“’Ullo, Bill; where y' been all th ’ week
“Me dory's been sick."
“Well, y' could ha' come to town, couldn’t y’?”
“Yairs, I s’pose I could; but a man looks such a fool without a dory."
voice. “There, take that!” Then gurgling cries
as of a very old person being strangled. “You
asked fer it and you got it —see! ” cried Ramsey. I
had jumped out of bed, and peering through the
blind discovered old-man Ramsey’s opponent to be
a patriarchal cockatoo, all claws and beak, a bird
of incredible age, who was gabbling at Ramsey with
an appearance of impotent rage absurdly human.
Ramsey senior was in an even more beastly humor,
and hurled a clod of dirt at the bird as he fled.
“Gerrout, yer brute! ” said he. “You filthy old
man/!” squawked the cockatoo. “Oh, you filthy old
man!” I remained at Ramsey’s a fortnight, and
discovered that this squabble was of daily occurrence:
sometimes there were three in one day, and always
they -'were conducted with incredible bitterness on
both sides. Ramsey harped on his forbearance in
not screwing the bird’s “dam’ old neck,” and the
bird retorted with biting reflections on Ramsey’s
dirty habits. “Why doesn’t he screw the thing’s
infernal neck and be done with it?” I asked Ramsey
junior. “Oh, I dunno,” drawled Bill —“they bin at
each other like that ever since mother died.” Bill
Ramsey left the farm shortly after I did, and took
a billet in Melbourne. I met him months later.
“I’m off back home,” he told me. Then in answer
to my surprised expression (for he had affected to
loathe the farm) he added: “Things have got too
lonely for the poor ole man. The cockatoo’s dead!”
* * * #
“Baba”: If knowledge is the true
measure of culture, then individually the simple
Papuan native is relatively a more highly cultured
person than his Aryan brother. His store of know-
ledge about the indigenous trees, plants, grasses,
shrubs and other natural growths, the birds, in-
sects, reptiles and animals of his country, as well
as the fishes, serpents, molluscs and mammalia of
its rivers and streams, and the sea which girts it,
is to be envied even by the scientific specialists of
our Universities. He has a name for everything,
and is acquainted with its history. Added to this
he is a student of astronomy, and knows many of
the heavenly bodies by name and is familiar with
their movements. He is also a good handicrafts-
man and husbandman, is an excellent sailor, a skilled
warrior, and can usually speak at least three or
four different languages. Can as much be said for
the average European?
“Gouger”: The huge scrub-clad bulk of
Mt. Finlayson rises before my North Queensland
tent. One solid day’s climbing, hacking through
innumerable lawyer-vines and masses of tangled
creepers, and a man only reaches the towering
granite rocks that are the bushmen’s landmark for
scores of miles around. Next afternoon the climber
nears the summit. The vegetation alters marvel-
lously. Gone are the serried ranks of the stately
scrub timbers ; their foliage appears only as a dim,
grey-green carpet far below. Up here is only
turkey-bush and stunted timber, bent like a bow
from the never-ceasing, roaring winds. A queer pad
made by wild pigs encircles the mountain-side. They
never go higher, the blacks tell. me, because of the
cold. Further on still, and as the air becomes pain-
fully cold, numerous climbing kangaroos make their
appearance, gazing curiously from tree branches.
Hair over four inches long, extraordinarily thick
and dark brown .in color, forms the pretty animal’s
overcoat. Then for miles the near-by summit is
clothed in forest mangroves, their branches beaten
to the ground by the wind, and forced to grow
like myriads of giant creepers. Their tangled roots,
growing about 3ft. above ground, and carpeted with
their sprawling branches, form tussocks. To touch
the ground is impossible, unless a man’s leg slips
through a weak spot in the mass of branches. The
rocks are overgrown with exceedingly long green
HE KNEW HIS GEOGRAPHY.
FIRST HOMING DIGGER ( sentimentally ):
“There’s the dear old Southern Cross!"
SECOND DITTO: “Don’t be a fool! We
passed them last night."
mosses of every shape, and creeping orchids abound.
For many miles, over the ranges to Cooktown, and
south to the ranges of Cairns, the .view is sublime,
and suggests to man what an insect he really is.
But a couple of wretched clouds come down over
the mountain top, and the black boys, terrified of
the “debil-debil,” grab the tucker-bags and hastily
begin the descent. I know of no man yet who
has got to the very summit.
(Continued on page 22.)
ME AN’ MACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mack an’ me was trampin’ mates from Mulga to
the sea;
I won’t say what I done for him, or what he done
for me;
But Mack an’ me was trampin’ mates on many an
outside track—■
I thought that we’d be mates for life, misunder-
standin’ Mack.
We tramped from Hell to Hungerford an’ shore on
the Paroo,
We battled on the tucker tracks, an’ done some
drovin’, too.
We poked up bullicks in the trucks from Hell to
Nevermine,
An’ worked from Mallacoota once to Eden, drovin’
swine.
The yows go gossipin’ ahead with all the lies they
hear,
The station scandals that outstink the old rams in
the rear ;
The pigs come gruntin’ up the track, old pig-mates
two by two,
An’ stick together ’till they’re pork like human
mates should do.
But pigs at large is gentlemen, an’ pigs at large
is clean;
They don’t go in for politics or treat an old mate
mean.
I little dreamed, the times we tramped by sandy
plain or beach,
That Mack, the days we didn’t talk, was makin’ up
a speech.
He’s travelled round the world to learn “con-
ditions” everywhere;
He ain’t bin down in Sydney slums to learn “con-
ditions ’ there.
He’s travelled sleeper and saloon for weeks, but,
I’ll be sworn,
His mind ain’t travelled half a mile from Glebe,
where he was born.
I’m weak an’ ill an’ down without the spirit of a
mouse;
I’m lyin’ in the hospital, he’s lyin’ in the House —
For Mack is now a Minister, the Minister for Slcite;
I read that he was dinin’ with the Prince of Wales
last night.
I wrote to Mack three weeks ago, and simply called
him Mack,
An’ asked him for a quid or two to put me on the
track ;
I said when I got out of here I'd soon be fit for
work,
An’ mentioned that I’d heard the drought was pretty
bad round Bourke.
I’ve got an answer from a bloke he keeps about
the place
To tell me that the Minister’s considerin’ me case. ..
Me an’ Mack was battlin’ mates, in battlin’ days
Outback—
And so I lay awake to-night considerin’ of Mack.
N.S.W,
HENRY LAWSON.


s&np —
■■■
WKRBBcZ'--
WmnM'lt '-Wh
l Ls:.'h
■. '-^vr'.
i
f ;■.
'V , •
§>s
Sf:
|b£v,' V •
■ 1
.
mm
"FORD CAR OWNERS!
Your Undivided Attention, Please!
Why not tfteuwifr equip your Ford Car for
Greater Convenience, Greater Satisfaction
and Greater Economy?
All other Cars have Speedometers, and 95 per cent, of them
v have the Stewart. It is the most dependable Speedometer
m ever built. There is a Stewart Speedometer made especially
for your Ford Car that will keep check on your speed, tyre
mileage, petrol consumption, etc.
It will also pay you to take off that electric buzzer, and install a
Stewart Motor-driven Warning Signal. The Stewart Warning Signal
produces a clear, penetrating note which can be heard at a great distance.
A Stewart V-Ray Searchlight installed on your Ford Car will add to the pleasure
and safety of night driving.
Thousands of Ford Car owners are Stewart equipping their Fords. Why not follow
Suit?
notice: to motor car dealers.
Stewart Motor Necessities are for sale by wholesale Motor Accessory Distributors
throughout Australia, including the following Interstate distributors: —
BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Hay Street, PERTH.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY. LTD., Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
MARTIN WILSON BROS. LTD., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
CORNELL LTD., Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
005
'BS
&
fu
dW£D
PIANOS for PLAYER PIANOS.
PERHAPS the one on whom you were dependent
for your enjoyment from the Piano has left
home, and the Piano, consequently, remains
idle; it saddens you to sit and look at the closed
Piano, and think of the enjoyment you miss because
of its silence.
IT NEED NOT BE SO.
We are prepared to take your Silent Piano in
exchange, and give you its full value in part
payment of a Player Piano, which YOU can play
PERSONALLY, and thus ensuie your own enjoy-
ment and relief from business worries.
Call for a demonstration, and valuation of your Piano,
or we will send, post free, Art Catalogue of all our
Player Pianos and Price List.
>\.SSE SOE
.
*. is
W i
WE SELL ON EASY TERMS.
ds
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at
BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA and ROCKHAMPTON.
SyMMHHH
s


PERMANENT
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
Before finally deciding on a Trustee and
Executor, consider the unique advantages
offered by the Permanent Trustee Company.
No individual could possess such qualifica-
tions to act in that capacity. As its name
implies, the Company is permanently at its
post, to save your beneficiaries time and
worry and to help them with sound, unpre-
judiced advice. The Company cannot travel,
disappear or die.
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager.
The Company’s whole time and attention
are given to the management of trust busi-
ness. Its wide and varied experience, its
specialised legal and financial knowledge
•safeguard your estate against the losses that
might result from the appointment of an
inexperienced trustee.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parlia-
ment to act as Trustee, Executor, Attorney
or Agent, the Company offers the maximum
service at very moderate fees.
Call or write for full particulars.
Literature on request.
The whole of the Company’s capital and
assets is in security for the fulfilment of its
obligations. As the estates under control
aggregate £6,000,000 and the subscribed
capital is £1,000,000, investigations will
show that the Permanent is the strongest
trustee company lu the Commonwealth.
Another special feature is the Company’s
unique practice of deferring Corpus Com-
mission charge till after estate becomes dis-
tributable.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
* * * *
“Horseshoe”: “Saxby” (B. 15/4/’2O)
reminds me, with his tales of poddy-stealing, of one
or two professionals the south-west district of Queens-
land has had. At the end of one of our frequent
droughts, when stock had been left unmustered and
unbranded for longer than usual, a well-known team-
ster suddenly became a cattle-owner. It was reckoned
by envious admirers that every one of his bullocks
had a calf that year, and one or two of them twins.
“Aldash”: Does any Abo. know of a more
spacious shade tree than the banyan fig ( Ficus
benyalensis), and can anybody produce a more mag-
nificent specimen than the one near the kiosk in
the Rockhampton (Q.) Botanic Gardens? It measures
165 ft. across, and the lower limbs stand ’ out almost
at right angles to the trunk. All the profiteers in
the Federal Parliament could easily be sheltered
from the sun under its spacious branches, and there
would still be room left for the self-sacrificing
members of both houses of Australia’s six other
Parliaments and their families.
* * * *
“Rox”: ’Way back in Western Queens-
land, in the one-pub town of Bungaroo, where the
horses have hollow backs from passing under the
sun, the local pedagogue, O’Kelly, was a man of
many parts. Besides running the local school, he
was ambulance, progress association, race club, police
court and many other things all rolled into one
round, fat, little, wild Irishman. He loved to dis-
play his eloquence at progress association meetings,
and was “our own correspondent” of the Sunset
Sentinel, published in the next town. And in
spare moments he pulled beer at, McGrew’s pub.
Apart from O’Kelly, the annual races, held three or
four times a year, were the only thing to cause a
commotion in the township. The judge’s stand was
the verandah in front of McGrew’s bar. O’Kelly
was an ardent promoter of these reunions, in the
celebration of which in McGrew’s beer he yielded
HIS MIXED TRADE.
The Washer Lady (speaking about her ‘wealthy connections) : " Yes, me brother-in-
law ’e earns good money. ’E makes eight or nine 'pounds a week an ’ sometimes
more.”
THE YOUNG WOMAN: “Gracious, what does he do?”
THE WASHER LADY: “ ’E’s a rabbit-an’-fish mongrel, mum.”
pride of first place to no man. This time the annual
races occurred on a Wednesday, a holiday for the
“carnival” being granted the local seminary at the
request of the Progress Association. The Association
was very ardent that day, one reason being that it
had had a win. Jerry Ryan’s mare (a dark horse
about which O’Kelly was in the know) floundered
in first, notwithstanding that she was torn between
conflicting emotions —that caused by the flagellation
of a Yankee slogger wielded by the hairy arm of
.Jerry on the one hand and motherly instincts on
the other regarding the welfare of her offspring
’way back on the course. So the Progress Associa-
tion celebrated. Next morning a gloomy pedagogue
put in a belated appearance at the school. The
younger scholars were- left to pursue their inclina-
tions, while the higher classes were directed to draw
a map of Queensland. The police court subsided
into a chair, its elbows on the table supporting a
head which felt very large. The pupils drew their
maps and sat waiting for further instructions. The
stillness woke O’Kelly, who lifted his head, stared
at the class with a grieved look and said, “Draw
map Queensland.” “Please, sir, we’ve drawn it,”
said the oldest boy. “Draw ’nother map Queens-
land,” said O’Kelly. His head toppled down into
his hands again. The class drew another map on
the other side of the slate, and again sat still with
folded arms, looking commiseratingly at the form
at the table. Once more the silence startled O’Kelly,
who jerked up his head, glared at the mute forms
before him, and said, “Draw map Queensland.”
“Please, sir,” said the spokesboy, “we have drawn
it —we’ve drawn two.” “Well,” said O’Kelly,
“draw map er Ilell an’ put Bungaroo capital of it.”
This time his head toppled down on to the table
and remained there.
“Yarraman”: After wallabies, near Gun-
daroo (N.S.W.), X looked over a rock and saw a
dingo prancing around as if he were bewitched.
Under cover, I crawled within 20ft. of the animal,
and saw a sft. tiger-snake stretched out on a rock
with flattened head raised to strike. After a bit
the wild dog took a flying leap, and landed a foot
behind the reptile’s tail. He was game, and ready
for fight. The snake flung itself back, struck, and
just missed; then the dingo nabbed it a couple of
inches below the head and held on. A few shakes,
a jerk or two, and a toss, and the critter’s back
was broken. The dingo looked up, saw me, and
trotted off leisurely into the scrub. He must have
known I wouldn’t shoot.
* * * *
“Ragar”: There was a shortage of food
throughout the islands in Torres Strait. The crops
were poor, and fish were shy. One Sunday morning
a turtle, sleeping on the surface of the water,
floated close in, right opposite one of the huts. The
owner quickly speared it and dragged it ashore.
Here was meat for himself and his missus. But
right there the trouble began. The teaching of
the missionaries, combined with the envy of the
less fortunate natives, raised the point that the
turtle had been caught on Sunday, when no work
should be done. “Besides,” declared the natives,;
“if a turtle is caught on Sunday, no more turtle
will come to the island, and we shall have no luck
in the fishing.” The old man argued that “de Lawd
’E see my belly and my missus’s belly too empty,
and ’E sent that-feller turtle for kaikai. What for
me no catch-em ?” After the leaders of the oppo-
sition had gone in a body to the missionary and
complained, and received praise for the stand they
had taken in the matter, the poor old mg' was
frightened into turning his catch adrift again and
going hungry. He complained bitterly to me after-
wards. The missionaries are more of a puzzle to
mOst of the niggers than anything else, and in spite
of all they can say to the opposite, their teachings
are looked upon as white man’s pourri-pourri.
“Dr. Nil”: “Dobritz Camp” (B. l/7/’2O)
combats my par. re Germans as horsemen (B.
3/6/’2O), and says it does not convince him. 1
do not want to convince him. I only express my
own opinion. And that opinion may be quite wrong,
But let us examine the statements of “Dobritz
Camp” in detail. (1) He says he was “rounded up
TRADE ON THE PAROO.
“What you want, Tacky?”
“Mine wantern boot.”
“What size?”
“Larstic size, boss.”
on the Marne in September, 1914, along with scores
of other cavalrymen by an inferior number of Prus-
sian and Saxon Uhlans, who completely outfought,
outrode and outmanoeuvred us.” Will our friend
tell us what cavalry unit he was attached to on
the date he mentions? Perhaps some British cavalry
were fighting on the Marne then (September, 1914),
but I have not read or he&rd of them. My mis-
take? (2) “During my 44 years in Germany after-
wards, I had opportunity enough to watch their
cavalry and other mounted men, and found them as
good on the whole as any other nation’s.” How,
during his imprisonment of 4 4 years (almost the
whole period of the war), had he the opportunity
of “watching their cavalry”? (3) Admitting that
he was “in Tripoli during the Turco-Italian War,”
can he tell us if he was in action with the bel-
ligerents, and on which side? (4) As to my opinion
that the Italian Cavalry is perhaps (my italics) the
best in the world, at the competitions in London
the year before the war the Italians took most of
the prizes. A member of my family was there and
saw it. (5) My question, “Can any one name a
first-class jockey or horsebreaker of German birth
in Australia?” has not been answered by Mr. “Dob-
ritz Camp.” Finally, I make no pretence to know
much about “cavalry or war.” But I do know a
bit about horse-riding.
* * * *
“Mirza” : What well of Truth has “Web-
foot” (B. 17/6/’2O) been paddling in? The prad
that was yarded ih “Banjo’s” song, instead of being
“a brumby of unknown quality,” was the colt from
old Regret, a notable Monaro performer, and “worth
a thousand pounds.” That was what brought Clancy
along from his cattle-station in George-street.
“141”: Had a glorious night-out up near
Moree (N.S.W.) recently. A steer had died in one
of the home paddocks, and we got eight youngsters
to lay trails to it from different points of the
compass.. The trails were pieces of meat saturated
with aniseed, and were dragged along the ground
from horseback. I and two others were hidden
about 50 yards to windward of the carcase. At
about 9 o’clock the dingoes began to arrive, and
when we turned the game up at 2 a.m. we had a
bag of 14 dingoes, 5 foxes, 7 tame dogs, 11 cats and
a few gohannas.
* * *
“Bright”: “L. and T.” (B. 20/5/’2O)
says that by spreading crude vaseline over your
water-supply you will retard evaporation by at
least one-sixth. My experience does not tally with
that. I poured vaseline into my dam at the side
fiom which a slight wind was blowing, hoping that
the breeze would spread it all over the tank. Instead,
it was merely piled up on the further edge. Each
time the wind changed it shifted the vaseline across,
and there it stayed. The treatment may be well
enough for a small tank with high sides, but it is
an abject failure with a fair-sized sheet of water
exposed to wind. I also noticed that the stock
moved away from the edge on which the vaseline
was lying, preferring to drink on the windward side
of the dam.
“Scottie Thrake”: Forty-four years ago
two herds of goats were lost by settlers on the
Upper Burdekin (N.Q.). Nothing was seen or heard
of them again, although everyone for 50 miles
along the river was on the lookout. In 1900 a
kangaroo-shooter reported having seen some wild
goats in the Canton Mountains. After the big
drought (1902) my brother and I spent some months
in these mountains panning for the color. We found
remarkably few colors, but around the little native
wells, high among the crags of rock, we found many
skeletons of goats and lots of old manure. The
bones were much smaller than those of the ordinary
goat, but the leg bones seemed longer than they
■should been compared with the ribs, etc. The
hair on the bits of rotting hide was dull-grey.
Failing to find any fresh traces, we concluded that
they had all perished; but Philip Sbhatzel, of Carse
o’ Gowrie, shot one a few years ago. It was a
nannie with a kid, and he got her among the big
boulders in the river. She had a small body, legs
very long and thin, large ears and eyes, and her
coat, except for the white under-parts, was the
exact blue-grey of the granite boulders.
“Barcoo II.”: Our Race Club was holding
its annual meeting, and the judge was enjoying a
more than usually hilarious time. Just before the
principal event, in which a grey and a brown horse
closely contested the position of favorite, it called
for some physical as well as moral persuasion to
lure the judge from the bar. At last, however, he
was safely installed in an upright position in the
judge’s box. During the calm which preceded the
race, while the jockeys weighed, the judge was heard
loudly arguing with the stewards, “Starlight, be
■! It was a piebald that won!’’
* * * *
“O’Kell B.” : “3556,” like thousands more,
confuses the terms “rough rider” and “horseman.”
It is like calling a baker a cook. The worst
poisoner” that ever damaged my digestion was a
champion baker who was elected shearers’ cook be-
cause of a similar misconception. Yet a shearers’
cook must be a baker, just as a champion horseman
(like old Lance Skuthorpe and J. Woods, the “stal-
lion king” on Retreat station) must be a rough-
rider. But “3556” has warrant for challenging
Carver’s claim to championship even as a rough-
rider. When I rode Connelly’s Honest Ned for a
wager at Bingara, half the town said that the old
grey had thrown Carver, and no one contradicted it.
Can “Rosalie” or “Timo” do so? I was putting
through a mob of youngsters at Keera station at the
time, and struck one very much worse than H. Ned,
and I rate myself as only second class at riding
buckjumpers.
* * * *
“G. Arden Hill”: Down this way (N.S.W.
South Coast) it is an axiom that the sun rises at
Shellharbor. It came about in this way. In the
early days a couple were born, reared and reached
adult age at Shellharbor, without ever breaking
away from that tranquil hamlet. Then they married
and went to Wollongong, a few miles up the coast,
for their honeymoon. On the morning after their
arrival the husband was awakened by his wife
vigorously shaking him and imploring: “Ned, Ned,
get up quick and see! Here’s the sun, as large as
life, risin’ beyant the sea there! I always thought
it rose in Shellharbor?”
MY BROTHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
brother S ” is prett >' easily led is my
RL“ d e W i tesS ; “He’s a man his leg to
pulled. Sydney law-court report.
He s easily led is my brother,
He s one for feis leg to be pulled ;
He don’t know his aunt from his mother,
And many’s the chance he has bulled;
He mixes with all the wrong people,
Because he is soft in the head ;
They hear he’s got bats in the steeple,
And so he is easily led.
He s got a good heart has my brother,
It’s only his nut that is queer;
As I’ve often remarked to his mother,
With most blokes it’s women or beer,
But Ike is just simple and silly ;
His brain isn’t one that keeps cool.
In fact, between you and me, Billy,
My brother’s a poor blanky fool!
N.S. W.
AARON O’MOSES.


BACK AGAIN !
“WINFRED”
Cigarettes.
THe World’s Favorite.
GOLD TIPPED.
lO for 9d.
SHIPMENTS JUvST LANDED.
Obtainable Everywhere.


v»*
esse
'sB®
x:
TTTT77
m
EVERY Drop of
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc)
A Plain
Fact!
W.G.Hearne&Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY. '
The people who seldom read fiction grow
and multiply because time is scarcer and
there are more things to do. Of course, the
readers of Charles Garvice and the devourers
•of “The Mystery of the Purple Bloodstain”
will still demand quantity; so will those
who live on a tedious diet of duchesses and
housemaid sighs. But the person with a
literary education is now both numerous and
defiant. To him half the words written in
the making of a modern novel are an in-
tellectual insult; and half of those that re-
main are of no consequence. Some books
have a right to be long—notably the two
recent historical satires by Sir Harry John-
ston—but their reason for length has nothing
to do with fiction. If the condensed novel
is all meat it will find an eager public; but
the facile lady whose punctuation is sup-
plied—generally in a casual fashion—by her
publisher must not get the idea that under
the new fashion she can write three books
a week. Novelists ought to be restricted to
one book a year, anyhow; one a century
would be a better rule for most, but more
than one a year is indecent to the verge of
obscenity.
MARY McC.
“The Celtic Strain”
The theory that all fine things in English
literature are to be traced to a Celtic source
reminds me of the English theory that
nothing solidly good was ever produced by a
Celtic artist of any kind unless there was
an English strain in the family. What
foundation there may be for these rival
theories I know not, but I am cocksure that
very few families in our civilisation have
even a notion as to the exact nature of their
breed. G. R. Sims, on being twitted with
the suspicion of Jewishness in his parentage,
protested that, although he was not aware
of a Jew ancestor, he honestly thought no-
body ever came to the front in literature or
art these times unless he had a little Hebrew
blood in his veins. When it comes to detach-
ing, as “MacUlladh” does (Red Page
1/7/’2O), Scotland, Wales and Cornwall from
Saxonland, and supposing that nobody born
Avithin the rest of England is at all Celtic,
nor anyone born in Edinburgh, Cardiff
or Penzance the least bit Saxon, I can think
of no remark more appropriate than “Rats!”
This is because I am professedly English, per-
haps, though I believe myself to be at least
a little mixed.
Accepting it as a fact, however, that “Aus-
tralian writers, with a few notable excep-
tions of those who acknowledge a foreign
descent, are nearly all of Scottish Highlands,
Welsh or Cornish extraction,” I would like
to add my theory to the partisan bunch.
The English— he., the least perceptibly
Celtish-tinged persons of my acquaintance—
have ever been indisposed to self-esteem as
regards their literary qualifications, whereas
the distinctly Celtish persons have ever been
gifted with a good opinion of their talent.
Also their friends and relations, if thqy
were Celtish, have been loud in expressing
admiration for their alleged fellow-Celt,
whereas you never find distinctly Saxonic
people talking about a young fellow's alleged
talent because he’s English. In short, my
experience is that Celtish vanity in artistic
achievement (including oratory) counts for
as much one way as Saxonish diffidence
counts the other. Honestly, I declare my
belief that had I been, with my mental out-
fit, born among Celts and infected by
exuberant self-conceit, I would have accom-
plished far better literary work than I have
ever attempted. Nothing has impressed me
more in my observation of life than the clan-
nishness of Irish, Scotch and Welsh, so-
called, in comparison with the non-clannish-
ness of the professed English. Nothing has
surprised me more than evidence of un-
developed artistic talent among English
people who have, as a matter of family
course, been discouraged from seeking their
living by it, whereas fellows of less obvious
talent, having Celtic connections, would
have been taught to regard themselves as
sons of genius. There are exceptions to the
rule, of course. Men like Shakspeare were
not deterred from adopting a literary career
by distrust of their merely English endow-
ments, nor did old Dr. Johnson religiously
hold his tongue because Carlyle was going
to describe the “English” as “of all people
on God’s earth the stupidest in speech and
the wisest in action.” In less ancient times
Dickens, the very English man, has won
the vote of posterity for popularity in com-
petition with Thackeray, of Cornish
ancestry. Even within the last 20 years
there has beep here or there an Englishman
of the Dobson, Wells or Pett Ridge type who
has written eloquently or humorously, or
both. The only intensely over-rated writers
I can thing of at the moment were not
English. I think of Andrew Lang and
Meredith and cry “No, by Heaven! they
were not English, or they never would have
been so talked about.”
My argument is, then, that there can be
no greater mistake for a child of artistic
temperament and literary disposition than to
have been born “English.” He gets naught
but discouragement, in most cases. Nobody
cheers him on, or pushes him on, nor is he
born with the capacity for self-admiration
which is the most valuable possession of the
average Celt-
E. F.
Tom Moore
Tom Moore went down to Derbyshire and
shut himself up from the world, in a cot-
tage, to write the great work which his
immense personal popularity made impos-
sible in the throng of men. The mere state-
ment looks almost humorous to-day in the
light of his thin but highly-colored achieve-
ment. Derbyshire was far away then, and
very quiet, and there was so great a public
waiting for Moore’s work that his publishers
were able to pay him to the tune of thous-
ands for projected books of verse that had
not yet seen paper. Moore died in 1852.
He had known Sheridan in his mature man-
hood (he was 37 when the dramatist died),
had seen the rise of the whole school of
“Lake” poets, had watched Byron, Shelley
and Keats flash out and pass away, and
lived on until Tennyson sang his top notes.
Scarcely any poet enjoyed during his life-
time a greater popularity than Moore; and
although his place in literature is not a high
one his songs are still very much alive, in
all his work there is not one stanza which
can stand comparison with the big music
that echoed about him all his days; and
yet there was something in his contribution
to letters that counted for a great deal. He
had no very great feeling for word-values or
word-music; yet he did in some way strike
sweeter chords than those who went before
him. The finer melodies of Shakspeare, Mil-
ton and a few of the Elizabethan song-
writers entirely missed him, but he got
effects by a different method; and a great
deal of our modern music is really a blend-
ing of that method with the older one. Far
as they surpass him, I believe that Shelley,
Tennyson and Byron owe him a great deal.
He set a fashion and they broke from his
fashion; but in the breaking they carried
away something that he had taught them.
Nor was his way altogether artificial and
commonplace. He trips over his own feet
very often, but there is a depth of feeling
and even of thought in much that he has
left us.
Yet it is his music chiefly that lives. That
music struck against vast cliffs of mind and
feeling and came echoing back from other
lips in sweeter and grander cadences. Take
a few instances of his melody :
When around the dying
Autumn leaves are lying,
Oh, then remember me....
Silent, O Moyle, be the roar of thy waters....
Oh, there’s nothing half so sweet in life
As love’s young dream
I was but as the wind passing heedlessly over
And all the wild sweetness I waked was thine 0wn....
Nature’s dress is loveliness....
Ere the emerald gem of the western world
Was set in the crown of a stranger....
Thou on whose burning tongue
Truth, peace and freedom hung....
A hundred more lines of the kind could be
quoted, and they are all of the sort that
have become threads in the garment of
modern song; but you cannot find two dozen
that even remotely resemble them in all the
writings befote Moore’s time.
It has been said of Moore that he misre-
presented the Irish spirit and failed to catch
the true bardic note of his country. This
is only partly correct. Moore missed a lot
of the finer tones, failed, as everybody failed
until 30 years ago, to get the Irish mythology
in focus, and was inclined to be a trifle
apologetic for his country. Still, there is
good, robust patriotism in his verses. For
instance: —•
But onward, the green banner rearing,
Go flesh every sword to the hilt!
On our side is virtue and Erin,
On theirs is the Saxon and guilt.
Pretty bad rhyme, but pretty good rebel
feeling. Stronger than that is:—
Unprized are her sons till they’ve learned to betray;
Undistinguished they live if they shame not their sires.
And this :—■
Oh, could we from death but recover
Those hearts as they bounded before
In the face of high Heaven to fight over
The combat for freedom once more!
Could the chain for an instant be riven
That Tyranny flung round us then,
Oh, it is not in man or in Heaven
To let Tyranny bind it again!
In prose, Moore’s “Epicurean” is the
father of a lot of fiction of the kind of Hag-
gard’s “She.” Nobody reads it now, but the
tale is simple and sweet enough, and has
lots of color; and it is easy to understand
how the grandmothers of the present genera-
tion loved it.
“The Last Rose of Summer” and “The
Minstrel Boy” will be sung for a long time
yet; but Moore cannot be dismissed too
lightly as a mere maker of words for draw-
ing-room singing. He was not a great poet,
but not even excepting Burns his was pro-
bably the greatest lyric-impulse between the
17th century and the big singers of the
19th. A good fellow, better loved perhaps
than any man of his generation, he came out
of a. grocer’s shop and rendered a genuine
service to literature. He is worth a place
in memory among those who found new
ways.
D. M. W.
Frifz and his Possessions
Stevenson’s Germany, otherwise The Case
Against Germany in the Pacific, by O.
Brunsdon Fletcher, expresses the writer’s
purpose in the sub-title. He is against the
return to its old square-headed owner of a
single inch of his lost possessions or of
enough soil to grow a primrose in a flower-
pot, whether in Africa, the Pacific or any-
where else; and the book is not waste labor
if there is even the tail-tip of the ghost of
a possibility that such a crime is possible.
It is hard to believe that it is possible; yet
it is well to take precautions. There was,
it isn’t wise to forget, a group of alleged
Laborists in Australia who preached the
doctrine of “no indemnities and no annexa-
tions.” A persistent argument these men
put forward was that the Prussian deserved
consideration because he is “efficient.”
Doubtless he is, more or less. Any man
with some education, a stern military train-
ing, a habit of discipline, and a tidy sort of
mind that has been swept and garnished of
all religion and sentiment can be efficient
when he has no labor difficulties to contend
with. And careful enslavement and judi-
cious flogging remove labor difficulties.
Wonderful things can be done with little
or no public debt —wonderful things in the
way of railways, bridges, harbors, Roman
roads and even pyramids, sphinxes and hang-
ing gardens —if there is efficiency plus
plenty of judiciously-flogged labor. Given
the labor, even inefficient people have done
things. , , .
In Africa the Hun was moderately suc-
cessful, but still there were borders that
the labor could bolt over, and big jungles
it could hide in, and annoying stramgers who
leaked in unexpectedly and saw things. _ On
the other hand, every Pacific island is a
compartment by itself, and the European
with his ships is mote movable than the
native, and the big ship’s gun can always
surround an enemy. So the Hun, with care-
ful censorship of news and that constant
vigilance which is the price of tyranny,
did well. But by the time the censorship
began to leak the accumulation of hatreds
was large and healthy ; and it is just pos-
sible that too much efficiency would have ulti-
mately made a scarcity in the Pacific labor
market.
Brunsdon Fletcher makes a god of the
fascinating, amiable, showy Robert Louis
Stevenson, whose career in Samoa wasn’t
so very long, and whose book, “A Footnote
to History,” is quoted often without much
that is definite emerging. Stevenson wrote
in constant danger of deportation, which
may explain a good deal. Another god is
missionary George Brown, and a third one,
who deserved all the glory that came his
way, is Governor William Macgregor. His-
torically the book is, however, rather scrappy
and casual; but, then, Polynesia and Mela-
nesia and Micronesia are all scraps. Most
of their component parts have no separate
or definite destiny, any more than Gabo
Island has. The Hun aimed at dotting his
part of the great sea with fortresses. He
intended it in small part as an immediate
source of profit, and in great part as
the groundwork for an efficient, well-regu-
lated, well-drilled, carefully spike-helmeted
and goose-stepped empire, which would in-
clude Australia, Maoriland and the Dutch
islands. Now there is a fair and colorable
imitation of peace and a considerable dis-
armament, and the nigger sits under his
palm-tree and awaits developments. Pos-
sibly there will be no special developments
and he will just go on being a nigger; for
there seem to be no potential makers of big
history (in. the Arab or Japanese sense)
among these folk.
A Satchel of Books
A Nation’s Heritage, by Canon H. D.
Rawnsley, is a pleasant little book about
Wales (where Prime Minister Hughes and
other fine scenery come from) and the West
of England. The roads, it seems, are good;
the foliage is rich; grass is plentiful; the
hills are picturesque; drought is unknown,
and some of the buildings are very old and
wonderful. A number of poets hung out
there, and it seems a good place for poets.
The Canon is not an explosive man, and
his dreamings about Nature are a change
from detective fiction. (Geo. Allen and
Unwin, London.)
The Water-Colors of W. Ttussell Flint
(“The Studio,” London). This is one of
the most attractive volumes of a fine series,
and lovers of pictured sunlight and dainty
bathing-girls should look out for it. The
artist’s delicate color sense is shown in eight
captivating plates. If ever you turn Bolshe-
vik, “June Caprice,” with its single green
branch catching the eye in the upper right
corner, and an arched boat-landing running
out into the misty waters of a lake,
is one of the first things you will want to
“expropriate.”
An Introduction to Sociology, by J. J.
Findlay, a professor of Education at Man-
chester (Longmans, Green). It is obviously
a book with a purpose, though the purpose
is not easy to define. But then Sociology
isn’t easy to define. It treats of man as a
social being, which he sometimes is not.
It deals with the origin of human society,
which is too far back to be traced by any
method yet known. The investigator can
get a glimpse of society as it was a minute
and a half ago, say, in Babylon, but that
isn’t origin. Also it deals with humanity’s
organisation, which moves so fast at times
that it is hard to locate, though a view
may be got in passing; also with his cul-
ture, which perhaps hasn’t started yet,
though sometimes there are hopes. Pro-
fessor Findlay is lengthy, and at least fairly
interesting.
YO HO, DEAR CHILDREN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When a good captain finds that the vessel under
his command is caught in a current which is carry-
ing him to disaster, he takes measures, before the
disaster occurs, to get out of the current. If, how-
ever, he does not take the steps required, and the
vessel strikes, the Board of Trade cancels his license.”
—lntroduction to a Sydney daily-paper leader.
The kindly leader-writer he takes us by the hand
And talks to us quite simply, so we can understand;
He crawls around the nursery our little hearts to
bless
And writes in easy English—one syllable or less.
The noble leader-writer sees things as clear as day,
And kindly treats his readers as little kids at play ;
Observe his style paternal to coax the infant brain.
No humor! No, it’s risky when there are Minds to
train.
Let’s love the leader-writer and check our childish
glee
When in the winter evenings we gather at his knee
To hear his explanations of seamanship sublime.
Dears, cluster round your uncle—three ha’pence every
time!
And as his dear voice echoes like wet fish east on
slate,
We see bewildered seamen come fumbling to the
gate.
“It’s some great captain, shipmate, that knows the
wind and tide!
It’s Oook ! No, it’s Columbus !... .It’s Noah there
inside I”
The deep-sea leader-writer would scorn to steer the
Ark ;
To steal a sailor’s living would write him down a
nark;
That’s why he can’t go sailing, but safely stays
ashore
Explaining navigation to infants on the floor.
BT.S.W.
KODAK.


I
!
5E
,
M
j
m
''•'A
r
m
as
kTED^I
z:
m
i
Q
1
/•
£
l
V'
>2
in
i
fi«
m
e:
:
/
ft*
s/
\
ESA
«■
sr
lr
i
/
f
r
v
,
*4B
6
ji\
till
I I u
60,000
Serve you
More than 60,000 persons make the products
of the United States Rubber Company.
Together they form theilargest rubber com-
pany in the world.
Long beforeihe shop-keeper serves you, this
vast army mechanics, chemists,
clerks, even coolie cultivators of the rubber
trees, indirectly yet conscientiously serve you.
This individual effort'hasmade world-popular
the good products of the United States Rub-
ber Company, -
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited,
Head Office: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Branches:—
130-2 William Street, Melbourne.
78 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand Branches:—
72-4 Jervois Quay, Wellington.
And Christchurch.


SKINGETTERS!
Your safest step is to consign RABBIT,
FOX, KANGAROO, WALLAROO, WAL-
LABY, WHIPTAIL, GOAT and all other
skins to—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD,,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Salesmen only. Not buyers or dealers.
Q
'
'turning
Bottle
de-mounted
Made in various
sizes and styles
from ]/ 2 -pint up.
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
bard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
8.6. A
MF’.ffti
k
4k<*kwa feOuJuM*...*** SA-4h
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR PLEASURE
More fresh air, more pleasant exercise,
And a realization of all the pleasures
that await you in the open country,
on a bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings, is a better tonic than any
doctor can prescribe. A constant com-
panion, and trusty servant, it is at your
service any moment, and will carry you
Anywhere with comfort, economy and
ease, away just where your fancy may
dictate.
To fully enjoy cycling be sure your
bicycle is built of B.S.A. Fittings, the
reputation behind the well-known
Trade Mark is a sure guarantee of
perfect construction, reliability and
long service. Send for Handbook post
free anil note the superior features of
genuina B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
□TINcs
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Australian
H
m
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
f
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
fdf
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES-Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PROPUCTIOt^Sj
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Svtlncv Airent: Adclftidd Ascnt •
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street. C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
“A.W.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
a»*ii . f i or> lij 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
vallbert Lodge OC LO. Ltd.,506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking- Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., 1(54 Edward Street, Brisbane. .
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Ktd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
sd
BY
APPOINTMENT
f
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
d
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
Used the
World Over
n
MOTOR
...CARS
•t?
9
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricsema.
PREPARED BY ETABXJSSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
From all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from Chatelain’s
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY; 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. fl
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Dolphin”: If the idea of generating
power from the tides ever comes to any-
thing there is more than one part of the
Commonwealth where the . conditions are
singularly favorable. The nor’-west of
W.A. and the Territory have easily our
highest tides, rising over 30ft. on some parts,
and there are sounds and openings with
narrow channels that ought to be the very
places for the job. In the Speck, Whirlpool
Reach and West Arm, on the Tamar, might
serve the purpose. The Launceston Marine
Board was asked the other day to hire
engineers to report on the idea, but didn’t
bite.
* # # #
“Ragar”: Years ago cotton —seed and
plants—was distributed on some of the
Torres Strait islands. The Government
Superintendent instructed the natives in the
planting, and so forth. The idea was to
see if the stuff could be grown commerci-
ally. That fact was proved. Cotton bushes
now grow wild, and beftr heavily. But the
islanders are too bone-lazy to do anything
in the way of cultivation, clearing or grow-
ing for export. The women and children
gather the cotton and stuff pillows and mat-
tresses with it, and, being sybarites where
personal comfort is concerned, there are few
among them now who cling to the old sleep-
ing mats —except to spread the soft cotton-
filled mattresses on. Some day cotton-grow-
ing up north and on the islands will be a
big thing. Kapok cultivation also should
and could be made a paying industry there.
The stuff grows wild all over the place.
* * * *
“D.F.”: S. Australia’s first recorded
mineral exports were the 20 tons of salt
from the natural saltpans of Kan-
garoo Island which the schooner Henry
(John Griffiths, master) brought to
Launceston (Tas.) in March, 1829 —
and that was seven years before the
Province was founded. The goods seem to
have come either from a salt swamp near
Pelican Lagoon, at the head of American
River, or from another lagoon half a mile
inland from Flour Cask Bay. Both Ameri-
can River and Flour Cask Bay have names
going back far beyond the orthodox settle-
ment of South Aus. It was at American
River that the Yankees built in 1803-04
the schooner Independence, a 35-ton craft,
afterwards lost on her way back from the
Penantipodes. Very likely, salt was col-
lected on the island before John Griffiths
raked up his cargo, but the record of it has
not yet been found.
“Wessel”: Since the buffaloes in the
Northern Territory are descended from tame
beasts introduced from Timor and other
parts of the Indies in the days of the Fort
Dundas and Port Essington settlements, it
does not seem impossible that they might
again be domesticated to a certain extent —
anyway, as much so as a lot of the cattle
in the Territory. Four citizens, led by
“Scotty” Gibson, are going to try the experi-
ment out beyond the Adelaide River. Buffalo-
shooters use very little of the wild animal
except the hide and the horns (and the
horns have not been good property
lately), but it is reckoned that the meat and
the fat should be worth something if the
beasts were brought up under suitable con-
ditions. The fat is pure white, and looks
first-class. As to the meat, it is very dark,
and there is a lot of argument about its
quality. But if people judged bullock-beef
by old stags and co_ws run down and shot
they would argue about that too.
* » * *
“Lex”: A Maitland (N.S.W.) magistrate
told the truth about the pawnbroking trade
a few days ago—a thing which isn’t often
done. He said in his wrath: “If it were
not for pawnshops there would not be half
the quantity of goods stolen.” Pawnbrokers
are like bookmakers and pubkeepers. There
are a few reputable ones, but more who are
straightout criminals and no bones about it.
Practically all the receiving that is done in
Australia occurs in mean pawnshops, most
of which are as well known by repute to
the police as to the professional thieves. Yet
one rarely hears of a pawnbroker going up
who has “lent” a tenner on a diamond orna-
ment worth a hundred or more to a furtive
individual with bag-snatcher written all over
him. The ancient doctrine of caveat emptor
might be applied in these cases with great
advantage. If the buyer omitted to look out,
then he should not kick at being treated as
a deliberate receiver where it was found
that the goods had been stolen. As it is,
many a ’broking establishment is nothing
more than a standing inducement to robbery.
FREE DRINKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Almost every beverage except plain water is
liable to develop alcohol.’’— Bulletin 8/7/’2O.
Old Nature’s brewery is wide,
Her vats are deep and full;
She nods her cap above a tide
Of liquids bright and cool.
She wreathes her bowl with flowers of spring
And calls her friends to drink;
The jolly choruses they sing
Have caused the moon to wink.
Shrill little streams for washing up
Go bubbling on their way,
But every blossom has a cup
To keep its spirits gay ;
And red and tipsy as Queen Ann
Old Nature leads the rout,
Nor worries o’er reforming man
With such good stuff about.
Yet she’s a sly and tricky minx,
This dame of cloud and rose.
The loud reformer gladly drinks
More pleasure than he knows.
Yes, she has drugged his simple cup
By stealth the while he sips,
And with a flake of foam tipped up
The pledge upon his lips.
Long is the fight with cursed drink.
The simple ginger-beer
With alcohol begins to blink
Ere one can voice his fear.
The cup is filled, the cup goes round ;
Earth owns her liquid sins.
In bud and bole, in leaf and ground
Old Nature laughs and wins.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


A Sotand
It is the fashion among'certain sections j
of the community to sneer at Proprietary f
Medicines, but in many cases there |
is considerable self-interest behind the
sneer. In spite of this attempt to discredit
all Proprietary Medicines, thousands of people are using, for
instance, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and get just the
results they are looking for; and no amount of sneering and
attempts to discredit them can alter the opinion of people
who know by experience that they are using a useful and
effective medicine, and at a fraction of what it would cost to
be running to a doctor or chemist. These pills are based on
a sound formula and produced by men of experience. There
is nothing known about pills that they do not know, there is f
no ingredient that is known to be effective for the Liver, for
aiding Digestion and purifying the Blood that they do not
know. It is their business to know. They not only know
these ingredients, but they know how to compound them so
as to secure the highest efficacy. Just as any cake, omelet, or any article
of food can be hopelessly spoiled because the cook is incompetent, and even
when given the best materials absolutely fails to make an eatable article,
when another cook, using the same materials, accomplishes a result that is
a delight. So it is in compounding Drugs, only even to a greater degree.
The ingredients used in producing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are of
the highest standard, and they are selected to secure the best results, and
in proportions to doubly secure this. Some people are always sceptical J
about a Proprietary Medicine, but does it not stand to reason that it J
costs as much for machinery and labor to produce a poor pill as a
good one ? In one case satisfaction is given because the article
is good, and in the other dissatisfaction because it is valueless.
DR. MORSE’.
ROOT PILLS
are a good Pill in every sense of the word, a fact that is abundantly proved by the thousands who continue to use
them year after year as their sole remedy for all the little ills of Life. They are prepared under the best possible
conditions, and there is no better Pill made iri this or any other country for Biliousness, Constipation, Liver and
Kidney Troubles, etc. The care taken in the production of these Pills is illustrated by the manner in which they
are packed. Instead of being put up in cheap wooden boxes —that absorb poisonous and other substances—they are
packed in glass bottles, at a cost of five or six times that of wooden boxes. The extra cost is more than made up in
the satisfaction of knowing that the Pills reach the public just as they left the laboratory, unaffected by moisture or
climatic changes, and free from contamination by contact with foreign matter. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills area
purely vegetable sugar-coated medicinal preparation, carefully compounded by experts, and are manufactured on the
premises under the direct supervision of the Proprietors.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA, BY AUSTRALIANS, FOR AUSTRALIANS.


A/LLE
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
THE 2-H.P. “BANTAM” ENGINE
for installing inside your boat.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Bore 2g, Stroke 23,
K.P.M. 500 High-
tension Ignition.
DIMENSIONS
OVER ALL.
Length 16in., Width
lOin., Height 16m.,
Weight 401 b.
fd
THE “BANTAM”
MARINE MOTOR
drives your boat
from 7 to i) miles
an May be
easily oi>erate«l and reversed without pre-
vious experience of gasoline engines.
Suitable for Canoes, Rowboats, Dinghies, etc.
Ideal for the Week=end Fishing
For particulars of Caille Perfection Inboard and Outboard. Motors
from 2- to 30-h.p., for Benzine or Kerosene fuel, write direct to the
sole agents for Australasia and the Pacific Islands,
BENSON BROS.
LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Also at Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
Hose of Luxite
is made in pour favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
. Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
ESSE
f
THE. WORLD'S
*/W BEST VALUE
ds
f
Propel lerßrand Rolled Metals
Australian Leaders in the Metal World
THE products of the Austral Bronze Company are everywhere recognised as equal,
if not superior, to imported metals. They are produced by an expert organisation
of Australian Metallurgists, and are the result of searching laboratory investigations
and severe service tests. AUSTRAL BRONZE CO.’S PRODUCTS are being used exten-
sively by leading Railway, Tramway, Marine, Motor and General Engineering Shops
throughout Australia.
Rolled Copper, Brass, Muntz Metal, Manganese Bronze and Tobin
Bronze in Round, Square, Flat and Hexagon. All usual Trade Sizes.
Highest Quality. Immediate Delivery.*
M)
“Austral” Plastic Metal adheres firmly
without tinning.
Phosphor Tin (Ingots), containing 5 per
cent. Phosphorus.
Phosphor Copper (Phosphorus 10 per
cent.).
Star Antimony (99.5 per cent, purity).
“Austral” Chill Cast Phosphor Bronze
(Sticks and Bushes) is close grained
without the hard skin common to sand
castings. Has increased elastic and ten-
sile strength and machines easily.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES.
“Graphine” Anti-Friction Metal, in a
variety of grades, for different loads and
speeds in all classes of machinery. A
distinctly high-class and thoroughly-
reliable bearing metal.
Babbitt’s Metal —Original formula.
“Austral” Navy Bronze, for heavy bear-
ings, high and low speed.
“Propeller” Brand Manganese Bronze
(Ingots). A high-class metal practically
non-corrosive.
dsf
THE AUSTRAL BRONZE CO. LTD.
vSelling Agents:
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501
Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from GEORGE KENT,
LTD., Perth; and CHAS. E. BERNAYS, Fitzroy Buildings, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
[8.703
The Townsville (Q.) Labor Convention
resolved lately that the Defence Act should
be amended so as to eliminate (a) all com-
pulsory clauses, and (b) the powers of offi-
cers, placing “the controlling power in
the hands of committees of soldiers and
sailors.’’ Russia, where this idiocy was born,
has now abandoned it, and is winning
battles. If White Australians have to
plagiarise the ideas of a semi-Asiatic people,
over 90 per cent, of whom were, till very re-
cently, illiterate, then in the name of com-
monsense let us steal the notions that
have proved a success rather than those
which have been thrown overboard as worse
than useless.
Listening to Hughes reading the cables
that had passed between himself and Watt
in London, the Gallery was amazed at two
or three things. One was the length at
which these great men harangued each other
across two continents. One cable from
Hughes, which took nearly 20 minutes to
read, suggested that he had mistaken his col-
league for a large public meeting. It had a
long historical introduction, reminded Watt
of most things that had happened while he
(Hughes) was in London, and ended with
appeals to public duty which would have
been loudly cheered in West Sydney before
the war. It was evidently too much for
the absent colleague, for he sent in his re-
signation by return cable.
Published that the local rep. of the Adel-
aide syndicate that proposes to bore for
oil adjacent to the spot on Bruny Island
(Tas.) where Captain Cook marked a tree
150 years ago, is W. 11. T. Brown, an
ancient sea-captain, and for a while a legis-
lator. Forty years ago Brown, alone, made
a dash through 'tilt; almost impenetrable
jungle between the Huon hinterland and
the south-west coast of the Speck, a journey
which but for the lucky capture of a badger
would have ended from starvation. Eventu-
ally the dishevelled explorer struggled out
of the wilderness near Port Davey, where
he lived on shellfish until rescued by a fish-
ing craft. The exploit appears to have been
undertaken without any clearly-defined
object, but Brown acquired experience and
an alliterative nickname to distinguish him
from the other Browns.
“Ex-Dig.”: Even before it was all over
London Evening News had found an ex-
soldier who had secured a full uniform and
equipment and had set it up in his suburban
home, “with all the pride of a knight of old
in his suit of armor.” It doesn’t take the
ex-Digger that way. When it occurred to
someone to ask why cadets were being used
as guards of honor, instead of returned, men,
the reply came that very few Diggers still
had their uniforms—at least, in condition
fit for the parade-ground. Bill finds the
tunic with the roomy pockets handy for fish-
ing excursions, and the lid that used to
charm the girls in the Strand has been con-
verted into a duck of a hat for the missus,
whilst his “strides,” being of material that
will resist the tendency of young Australia
to burst the seats of its pants, has been
turned into garments for young Bill.
Australia gets a look-in in the story of
England’s most famous hunting-song, “John
Peel,” which has had a fresh boom since
the British army of occupation was played
into Cologne to its strains. This year is
the jubilee of its public appearance; before
that it was a merely local affair. All par-
ties concerned were Cumberland men; but
John Woodcock Graves, author of the
words, left for Tasmania in 1833, soon
after writing it, and remained there till his
death at Hobart in 1886. “Very superior
mental attainments... .undoubtedly eccen-
tric, and once in a lunatic asylum career
little more than a series of magnificent
failures”—so runs his record. But he had
left the song popular in his old home, which
was also Peel’s. From 1863 to 1866 one
George Coward was corresponding with him
and getting the rough draft (originally in
Cumberland dialect) settled in its present
form, and copyrighted. The tune adopted
was much older, “Border Annie,” of un-
known origin. Eventually the finished
article reached London, and became an
immediate and world-wide success.
The plea of “Exeter Hall”: —
Lieut. Flora Sandes is not asking for money for
Serbia: she merely mentions that money will not
be refused. It is to be hoped that it won’t be
offered. While the war was on the British Empire
had to stand by this bloodthirsty little nation of
pig-butchers which landed the world in the great
trouble ; but the need has now providentially passed.
Consider Serbia’s recent history. Inside the last
40 years one king (Milan) had his life attempted,
was forced to abdicate, came hack as a sort of
A.D.C. to his son, Alexander, and had his life
attempted again. Shortly afterwards Alexander and
his wife were butchered, the regicides became the
idols of the country, and it was boycotted by the
civilised world. Peter ascended the throne amid
the execrations of Europe, and his lunatic elder son
presently murdered one of the palace servants and
had to forego his claims as Crown Prince.
Under Milan Servia forced on a war with Bul-
garia, got beaten, and was only saved from ruin
by Austria. The Serbs were largely responsible
for the wars leading up to the Treaty of Bucharest
(1913) which gave them an additional 15,241 sq.
miles of territory. Serbia’s r6le in the late
war is well known. The Montenegrins, who
all through history have lost the Serbians at their
own game —guerilla warfare —sacrificed themselves
to save the Serbian Army from Von Mackensen.
Their reward was invasion and villainous maltreat-
ment by that same army.
The Serb has only one real industry—war. Com-
pulsory service is universal and is undertaken from
18 to 50 years of age. He does not rely on arriving
at his predatory ends by his own efforts (though
slaughter is, so to speak, the national sport), but
rather on involving the rest of the world in trouble,
and then claiming a share in the proceeds. Vkb
Turkey practically pushed out of Europe, one of the
few remaining checks on the gory activities of all
the Balkan peoples departs. To furnish Serbs, or
for that matter any other Balkanese, with cash
the equivalent of subsidising fresh upheavals. The
upheavals will of course come in any event, so long
as the different Serbo-Croatian, Bulgar, Vlach.
Albanian, Kuman-.Jew and German-Gipsy tribes of
the Middle East remain unexterminated. But m
the name of gentle peace and sanity don’t let « s
help to stage the horrible old revival before it>


V
m
%
111
////////
////>
m v//
5=3
m*
\
i
m
Wi
yz
s
i
m
Goodyear Tubes—laminated structure
the air stays in—the pressure keeps up
Goodyear heavy tourist tubes are made
of many sheets of pure tissue-thin rubber, built up
layer upon layer until their full thickness is obtained.
Th en, the sheets are welded together by vulcanising.
In addition to their laminated structure, Goodyear Heavy Tourist
Tubes are made heavier by extra layers of rubber. The rubber used is
the best. It is pure grey rubber, without a vestige of coloring matter
or compound.
Most tubes of other brands are turned out of a tube-machine in one
thickness, and any particle of sand or foreign matter tends to make
such tubes leaky.
In Goodyear Heavy Tourist Tubes the thick laminated sheet is twice
rolled, giving double effect to the lamination —lengthwise as well as
crosswise. There is no danger of under-inflation through porousness or
pin-hole leakage.
Moreover, the laminated structure limits the damage of a puncture to the
wound made. Goodyear Heavy Tourist Tubes do not rip when punctured.
The valve-patches are vulcan-
ised in —not merely stuck on.
Branches & Agencies
All Principal Cities
BUILD BETTER ROADS
Service Stations and
Dealers Everywhere
•^yZy
gECTION of a Goodyear Heavy Tourist
Tube separated to show layer-upon-
layer construction. Under - inflation is
the great enemy of covers. Goodyear
laminated Tubes always keep the
pressure up.
ESS
-
GOODYEAR
Self-Cure
Tube Patches
Goodyear Self-Cure Tube Patches
are handy, die-cut patches— pure
rubber discs that stretch evenly
with the tube. They will not pull
loose at the edges. Cementless, easy
to apply, they are invaluable in the
emergency.
Packed 10 in a box
Price : 1/9.


L>3X
I M ~JSt
Baby Happy After His Bath
With Cuticara Soap
Nothing more refreshing for baby
than a warm bath with Cuticiira
Soap, especially if his skin is hot,
irritated or rashy. After bathing,
gently touch any irritation with Cuti-
cura Ointment. - They are ideal for
all toilet uses.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
PtT’Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
%
Talc
Powder
mi
gjg-.TSrr.IW=V
Williams’
Talc Powder
CARNATIO N
m
net wt 4 oi
You get b
wide choice
of Perfumes
when you
wive WILLIAMS
TALC. POWDER
your preference—Violet,
Carnation, English Lilac,
La Tosca Rose, Matinee
(new) also Baby Talc
(practically unscentecH
Your chemist 01 draper
should have WILLIAMS
TALC. POWDER If h*
cannot supply you send 1/9
in stamps to Williams, Box
98, G.P.0., Sydney, for ful)
size tin Post Free,
IV. 2P
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little ? way. He likes,
and most have, the best.
Mellin’s iFcxxl. is the proved
most efficadoios equivalent to
Mother’s <M3k.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Tr'nen, wfoat a boon to the
mother to> use a. food which requires
no tiresop or preparation.
1* made in aiflash—-needs no cookintf
Send for sample* of MelHn's Food and Hand,
took for Mothers* ‘The Care of Infants'—Free
Messrs. Goltcik &Co. Proprietary
LiTD., SIDNEY
It any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will ciuote yon price for it.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
.
50 Drops
of Oil
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 5° rmV 66 *’
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY.
I
Three
Times
a Year
is all that is required to keep an
ds
Self-aligning
Ball Bearing
in excellent condition. Think what your annual
saving would be in lubricant alone were your
plant equipped with S.K.F
ALWAYS SPECIFY S.K.F.
m i
powU 8, LIGHT ENGINEERS
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
©
IS
Shir
s
No shirts offer more in fabric,
pattern, color and style —no
shirts are better fitting —no
shirts are cut more accurately,
nor finished more expertly than
Thistle Shirts.
Give Thistle Pyjamas a trial.
Sold at all Clothing Stores.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
Se©
r hi s
bra.nd
CD n.
each
sbt rr
mm
%
m
36
as
mP,
"W/,
“Calsar”: You can never tell a man by
his tattoo. One in our crowd, charged with
double desertion and six or seven lots
of theft, had emblazoned on his right arm
in block letters, “Death before dishonor.
“R.1.P.”: During 1906 the late Dr. John
Edward Barrett, of international cricket
fame, came to Branxholme in the Western
District of Victoria to inspect the place
and see if it would support his red lamp.
Standing on the verandah of one of the local
hotels he saw two funerals pass during the
afternoon. He immediately wired his friends
in Melbourne: “Well satisfied with place;
two funerals to-day.”
“L.L.W.”: One more educational fad
busted! Investigations have proved that
forcing children to write with the right hand
when they naturally use the left produces
stammering, word-blindness and acute ner-
vousness : and drawing with both hands often
affects adversely the speech-centres of the
brain, which are situated very close to the
writing-centres. Yet in some Australian
schools left-handed kids are still walloped for
not persistently using the right hand I
Vic. Savings Bank commissioners have
won rounds of applause from Cold Tea for
buying up Champion’s Queen’s Arms pub
in the best part of Swanston-street for
£160,000. The pub is to go, and the bar,
abutting on Flinders-lane, will become
a banking chamber. As there are six
storeys on the hotel portion and five on the
rest of the building along a frontage of
136 ft. the bank will not want all; so
four shops on the ground-floor and the pro-
fessional chambers are to be continued.
There are still enough pubs in the block to
prevent death from thirst.
“Electoral” seems nowadays an unlikely
word for a sheepowner to use in commend-
ing his stock. Yet a century ago it was
the highest praise that could be given to
describe them as “of the full Electoral
blood.” The explanation is that the best-
fleeced of the period came from Saxony,
which was called an Electorate, rather than
a kingdom. Alexander Riley brought 200
of them to Australia in 1825, with the hope
—an excellent forecast—“of largely contri-
buting to lay the foundations of enabling
the territory to as speedily eclipse the Ger-
man as it has already successfully vied with
the Spanish wools.” Moral: Don’t export
your stud-rams.
On the doctrine of “peaceable possession”:
A Victorian Supreme Court Judge has temporarily
decided the issue between John Howe and Edward
Grogan. Howe rented Grogan’s house at P’ran and
received notice to quit. But before the notice ex-
pired Grogan fenced off a corner of Howe’s yard, to
run a pony in, and Howe kicked the fence down.
The furious Grogan summoned him to P’ran Court,
and the local Solomons fined him 205., plus Bs.
damages to the fence and 355. 6d. costs. On ap-
peal Justice Hood reversed the decision, plus £lO
10s. costs, and the P’ran Court costs. So far Howe
is on top, but as Grogan talks of appealing to the
Full Court, and as there remain after that the High
Court and the Privy Council, there is no telling
who will be boss dog at the finish —except Costs.
Costs will be all right. Incidentally, the fence
was worth precisely eight bob.
“Magnum”: South Aus., the premier wine-
growing State, is about to launch a film ad.
of its pet industry, which contributes Cus-
toms and Excise revenue amounting to
£500,000 annually, and directly or indirectly
employs 30,000 people. There was a pri-
vate Screening in Adelaide recently, and
in 35 minutes every phase of the busi-
ness was shown, the panoramic views of
Barossa, Reynella, Yalumba, McLaren Vale*
Nuriootpa and Tanunda (where the vine-
yards prodn Q grapes worth from £5O to
£lOO an acre), being particularly fine photo-
graphy. Grape-growing is a healthy out-
door job: its scope for expansion is- great,
and its workers have not yet discovered the
virtues of “go-slow.” Phylloxera is a dan-
ger, but not more dangerous than the pro-
hibitionist.
“Country Ped”: Lieut. G. S. Browne,
educated at Melbourne High School,
Teachers’ College and Melbourne Uni., was
a third master in a State high school when
he enlisted in 1915. After distinguishing
himself in the war, Browne was given a
Rhodes scholarship, and won high honors
both at Oxford and the London University
in the schools of education. Early this year
he was appointed vice-principal of a new
college for teachers in Lancashire under the
Lancashire County Education Committee.
His salary begins at £7OO and residence.
The college is an extra-well equipped build-
ing, accommodating 100 selected soldier-
students of strong personality. The course
is to last two years, and the students re-
ceive £l5O the first year and £2OO the
second as a personal allowance. (I have in
mind an Australian teachers’ college where
the personal allowance is £l2 per annum,
and even that is docked from the student’s
salary as soon as he or she is appointed to
a school.) These picked men are to be the
leaders in Lancashire for carrying out the
new Fisher Education Act, 1918.
About a man of many troubles: —
The cabled news that “past and present members
of Parliament, numbering 307, unsuccessfully peti-
tioned the Archbishop of Canterbury to exercise his
ancient prerogative and grant a doctor’s degree to
H. A. Barker, the noted bonesetter,” indicates that
this indefatigable self-advertiser is still pursuing the
good work. He is admittedly one of the most
skilful osteopaths (quack term) or orthopaedists (pro-
fessional designation) in the world. But he would
never have been so well known, and, consequently,
would never have made the immense amount of
money he has, but for the “persecution” of the
doctors’ union. He began as a specialist in hunting
and football injuries. Then came the war, and as
he knew, by that time, far more about manipulative
surgery than the ordinary medico (though probably
not nearly as much as the best), his‘ chief require-
ment was to get into the public eye. The B.M.A.
put him there by erasing h name of his anaesthetist
from the Medical Kegisti for the “infamous con-
duct” of- working with him. Since then he has
never looked back. London Truth and the Nine-
teenth Century published sympathetic articles about
his case, and ho has been the subject of debates in the
House of Commons. One of the narrowest escapes
of his life, financially speaking, was in 1917, when
some of his misguided admirers tried to force him
into the R.A.M.C. But the B.M.A. again proved his
friend.


ds
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
The people who buy this car do so for sound
business reasons.
We know this by what they say, and by the
way they approach the purchase.
They represent the substantial class in their own
community, and hold fixed ideals of value.
Buying Dodge Brothers Motor Car is, with
them, a matter of business—because they
seem sure they will get more out of it.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., ILtd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) iLtd.j
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
**erth.
Cheney Motor Co v L,td.,
Adelaide.
safeguard vow* health
pTJ»C®IIIS Brotfn^s
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checka FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/8 and 8/-.
Made in England.
m
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney—equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
are Sole Agents in Australia, is the Razor we have used in our Saloon for over
30 years. Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annually. Its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair in Double Case, 25/-
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
AITKEN,
654 Georgs Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
c allfn& •
To the Tourist, Scientist, -Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search'of Land.
Free Information on 1 . all subjects
available at once on receipt* of this coupon.
Name.
Address . .
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane,.
ensland
S.B.
f
-
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
fin. to 4 inches.
ds
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, f turers.
Engineering Requisites,! of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines I.^.C. 1 Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump#ylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.84 C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Trougrhbjgr, Cast* -.lron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Oab Winches,
London Pattern Blocks ©tc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses—4lB-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane. Worlds—Yeerongpilly.
(Trams pass near by.>
[l
Good Will Steadily
Spreading.
The Dodge Brothers Car has now reached
the stage where its sales are almost
automatically increased.
By this we mean that one sale is almost
certain to result in one or two other
sales.
The simple truth about how the car stands
with the public is hard to put into
words because it sounds like boasting.
It is a common occurrence with dealers
everywhere to have a man walk in
and drive out without wasting time
asking questions.
The fact is that the average owner is not
merely satisfied, but almost extrava-
gantly enthusiastic.
You must have noticed that the first thing
said about the car, in ordinary conver-
sation, is almost always a direct
reference to its quality.
People have arrived at the conclusion that
the Dodge Brothers give the manufac-
ture of the car an unusual degree of
personal attention; and that the car
is right, down to the smallest detail.
There is a widespread feeling that they take
an intense personal pride in perfecting
the product that bears their name.
Both of these conclusions are correct.
Dodge Brothers are the actual, active
superintendents, engineers, managers
and owners of this business.
Before they began to build their own car
they had built the parts for more than
half a million other cars.
All of this experience, and all that followed
it —coupled with intense pride in their
own product and love of the work it-
self beeps up a continuous process of
improvement.
They have concentrated on one car, and
one car only, in a determination to
make it as good as a car can be made.
For every part and every process that
enters, into it they have personally
established a standard.
The work done and the materials used in
each part, and each process, in every
car, must conform to that standard.
The factories' now cover over SO acres of
floor-space—and are still growing—but
there is no department so remote that
it does not feel the influence of the
Dodge Brothers personal direction.
This intense watchfulness accounts, of
course, for the remarkable things you
hear about the performance of the car.
In its first year it acquired a wonderful
hold on the good opinion of the Aus-
tralian people—and it has not developed
a single fault worth talking about.
There is a very pronounced and definite
public opinion now in this country con-
cerning Dodge Brothers car.
Nearly every man or woman you meet has
a clear-cut idea of the kind of a car it is.
How. friendly and how favorable that idea
is you probably know so well that it is
not necessary to go into details.
That it will steadily grow better under the
Dodge Brothers generalship goes with-
out saying.


\JLzu
tm
rr
■W >-
u
(
At Work or At Play
Indoors or out of doors—
Milkmaid Coffee & Milk
is the ideal beverage at
all times.
rs?
With a tin of Milkmaid
Coffee & Milk and
hot water only you can
enjoy perfect, creamy
coffee at any moment.
For your next picnic take
Milkmaid Coif ee& Milk.
Drink it, too, at break-
fast, lunch or supper.
You will be delighted.
LL^
t:
i J
WE
Remember ! no sugar—no milk re-
quired with Milkmaid Coffee & Milk.
Just hot water. It’s so simple !
MILKMAID
Coffee & Milk
<v j?
-funu. f€Ci
9f
TA
2k '
i/\
- &
11 Ms?,
'?2F%LvI)
J V.
A2e
1. Anticipation
o
O
2. Singing.
A
A
3. Pain.
4. Simplicity,
A
5, Impudence,
6 Importance,
(2) Singing.
A “progress” sketch of example I Vo. 2
showing how a simple design can he
huilt upon.
Read What Pupils Say:
“On Friday I received a cheque from
‘The Bulletin’ for one of my drawings. I am
getting heaps of pleasure in working with
you, and do not like to think of the course
ending. Everything has been so interest-
ing and clear. I know that I never ex-
pected to gain so much knowledge and
pleasure from a Postal Course.’’
“(Sgd.) B. Nind.”
“You’ll be pleased to hear, no doubt,
that I had a sketch accepted by ‘The Bul-
letin’ the other day, and incidentally
rustled a cl'ieque for £l. Considering the
size, quality and time spent on the affair,
I was pleased myself. This is the second
attempt I’ve sent into ‘The Bulletin,’ but
I hope it’s niiot the last.”
“(Sgd.) H. Armstrong.”
LEARN TO DRAW
NOT TO COPY.
If you can write you can draw. The same principle applies
in both cases. It is just a matter of knowing how and where
to put the correct lines. Our simple and efficient teaching,
combined with practice and observation, will quickly enable
you to turn out striking and original work—and it is original
work that pays, and helps you to make a name for yourself.
THE WESTON METHOD
embraces every department of drawing and painting for
pleasure or profit. Drudgery is eliminated and every lesson
is a real pleasure. Under the personal and skilled criticism
of Mr. HARRY J. WESTON, one of Australia’s most
prominent and successful Commercial Artists, you learn not
only how to draw but how to place your work on a market
that affords a handsome return for your original efforts.
our pupils say—we have dozens of similar letters
13
—and enclose 3d. stamps for our illustrated
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.” It
tells you all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
211 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, SYDNEY
fds
O. 5
W
f
(6) Importance.
A “progress ” sketch of example No. 6
showing the effect of a feiv alterations
to the simple design.
Read What Pupils Say:
“Having arrived practically at the end
of my course, I feel it my duty to express
my satisfaction and appreciation of the
Weston Postal Course in Commercial Art.
In the very earliest stages of these ex-
tremely comprehensive lessons I lost my
scepticism as to the improbabilities of such
an Art being satisfactorily taught per post.
Mr. Weston certainly is a Dual Artist, as
the art of conveying his meaning and of
instructions as to how to carry out those
meanings seem to come very easily to
him, and are as readily understood by his
pupils.
“So satisfied am I that I have already
recommended the course to several
acquaintances and even gone out of my
way in doing so, believing I was acting in
the interests of the party concerned.
“Please accept my thanks and heartiest
good wishes for the School’s future pros-
perity in carrying on its useful work.
“(Sgd.) H. Li. Jefferson.”


A. Saunders' Gent.’s High-grade, Open-
face, Keyless Lever, compensation balance,
£2. Extra Jewelled, £2/10/*, £3*
£3/10/-, £4, guaranteed. Double
jewelled, £4.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, 20/-. Heavier,
25/-, 30/-. 15ct. Gold,
40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set Pearls,
15/-
to
SN
w
01
CO
©
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Lever Wristlet Watch, Jewelled
Movement, 30/-, 40/-, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5.
m
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ei\ Gold,
£B/10/-
*
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Oct. Gold
Tablet Ring, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Returned Sol-
dier’s Prescr' t'on Medal, 9ct.
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Brooch, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine 3-bar Brooch,
20/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Boat-shape
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 3-
Diamond Ring,
lSet. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls
and Rubies, £3.
Pearls and Aqua-
marines. £3/10/-
A Saunders' Oct. Gold Curb Albert, £5. Lighter. £3/10/-,
£4 £4/10/-. Heavier, £5/10/-. £6/10/-, £7/10/-
’ l'fict. Gold, £B/10/-. Lighter, £O/10/-. £7/10/-
Ileavier, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Albert, “Lome pillar” design, £3/10/-
Heavier, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-.
15ct. Gold, £6/10/-. Heavier, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
SEND FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
WE POST ALL ORDERS FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George St., Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Bed Stone, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl Bar Brooch, £2.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
ISct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct:. Gold,
£B/15/-
A. Saunders’ C.ent.’s
Signet Ring, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-
15ct., £2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Football Medal, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Ccnt.’s Nickel Silver Hunting
Watch, £2/10/-. S-plate movement
£4/10/-, Extra Jewelled £5,
£5/10/-, £O, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Cirele Brooch, set Pearl
and Rubies, 12/6.
a Ulmßllli
A Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Watch, 20/-, 30/-, 40/-
50/-, 60/-, £3/10/-, £4, £5, £6. Guaranteed.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MciNTOSH.
“p IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
In the Musical Success of the Century,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-piVOLI THEATRE,’ MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. MciNTOSH presents
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE AND HIS LONDON
COMEDY CO. in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Prices as usual.
He It J 1 A.l E STY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
Bv the J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
c
It 1 T E It I O N T HEAT It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
By
Interpreted by J. C.
ORGANISED
lAIN X .
WILLIAMSON’S SPECIALLY-
COMEDY COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT have pleasure in presenting
MISS MARIE ILKA
in the great drama of Love and Beauty,
TIGER ROSE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
O
W N HALL,
Direction J. and N.
S Y D
TAIT.
N E Y.
The World’s Favorite Singer,
JOHN McCORMACK.
SECOND CONCERT, TO-NIGHT at 8.
Other Concerts:
SATURDAY, JULY 24; TUESDAY, JULY 27.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
y kion picture theatres
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements. ,
Hull MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOU RN It
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present a revelation in
revues,
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
Til EAT HE It OYA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Latest
London Success,
YES, UNCLE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 24.
J. and N. TAIT revive the remarkable American
Drama,
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
A Play with a Message.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge)..
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
SHIRLEY MASON in
HER ELEPHANT MAN,
and
FRANK MAYO in
THE PEDDLER OF LIES.
Prices as usual.
jy|A,TESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
AUSTRALIA’S FAR NORTH-WEST.
AUSTRALIA’S FAR NORTH-WEST.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE
GLACI ARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
gRITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
pHE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANIES.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
in
THE ROTTERS.
OPENING JULY 31, PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” Touring
South Island of New Zealand.
Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
Legal Notices.
TO RICHARD EDMONDS, half-brother
of Michael Edmonds, deceased, and last
heard of in Tipperary, Ireland, and all per-
sons claiming by, through or under him.
Pursuant to an Order made on the Bth
day of June, 1920, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of January, 1921, your
claim to the estate of the above-named
Michael Edmonds, who died intestate at
Martinborough. New Zealand, on the 10th
day of January, 1918, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this lltli day of
June, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO ARTHUR GORDON GOODRICH,
father of Gordon Goodrich, also
known as Arthur Gordon Goodrich, deceased,
and last heard of in Christchurch, New
Zealand, and all persons claiming by, through
or under him.
Pursuant to an Order made on the Bth
day of June, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of December,
1920, your claim to the estate of the above-
named Gordon Goodrich, also known as
Arthur Gordon Goodrich, who died intestate
at Hanmer, New Zealand, on the 10th day
of November, 1918. failing which the estate
will be distributed among those entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this lltli day of
June, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
'jMIE
SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
No. 89 of 1920.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes. BETWEEN
SUS\NN \H JANE STANDISH Petitioner, and
JAMES HOWARD STANDISH, Respondent.
To James Howard Standish, c/o Mrs. .T. Standish,
Dundas Street, Northcote, Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
fifth day of July, 1920, has issued out of this
Honorable Court citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Susannah Jane Standish of 23
Arundel Street Fremantle in the State of Western
Australia Married Woman praying for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of desertion.
IN DEFAULT of your appearing the Court will
proceed to hear and determine the said charge and
you will not be allowed to address the Court. There-
fore take notice that for the purpose aforesaid you ate
within 45 days from the date of this advertisement to
attend in person or by your Solicitor at the Central
office of this Court situate at the Law Courts, Bar-
rack Street, Perth, in the State aforesaid, and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
. Dated this 9th day of July, 1920.
C. A. SHERARD, Acting Registrar.
NICHOLSON & HENSMAN, of Surrey Chambers, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Public Notice.
RETURNED SOLDIERS’ BADGES are held at tile
office of the Staff-Officer for Invalids and Re-
turned Soldiers at Victoria Barracks, for those men
who returned since January, 1920, and have not yet
received same. They may be obtained by personal
application (bringing Certificate) or by
written application. In the latter case it is neces-
sary to forward Discharge Certificate, and the pie-
caution should be taken of registering the letter. It
is desired that those still requiring an issue of this
Badge should take action to apply for same as soon
as possible. .. ,
A sufficient stock of Badges is not yet available for
an issue to be made to those who have lost their
original Badge and are applying for re-issue on pay-
ment. Those who have applied for same are advised
that their applications are held pending receipt of
Badges.
Personal.
MRS SYKES, of the Paris Leave Club, is leav-
ing Vancouver on the 21st of July for Sydney
by the s/c Niagara. Letters can be addressed to
her c/o Thomas Cooke and Sons, Sydney. She will
be glad to hear from all who wish to meet her
again.
WIRELESS.
“EXPANSE” LOOSE COUPLER.
WIRELESS MEN! This Coupler is a record-
breaker. Only five guineas, and it’s an instru-
ment of such good design and workmanship that
everybody wants one.
Get one NOW and start right.
THE AUSTRALECTRIC CO.,
97 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
267 Swanston Street
MELBOURNE.
os
f
Increase
3 Selected Diamonds,
Set in Platinum,
£2O.
Our sales for the 12 months ended in June
show over 50 per cent, increase on the previous
year’s figures, and those figures were the
largest we ever have had.
Paper money was abounding. Yes; but our
customers are Squatters and the Wealthy
Classes, and drought and taxation and com-
pulsory loans hit them squarely.
No; we can only conclude from the figures
that our greatly increased clientele arises from
the conviction that we are giving only the
best of goods at the lowest possible prices.
We certainly strive to, and use our great
capital, over 80 years’ experience, our fine
organisation, and brains and energy to get such
results.
Last year the Public told us, in hard cash,
that we were succeeding in giving fine values.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Si," jgr* 825 Banter St„ Sydney


<577/ Unanimous
ABBOTS LAGER.
THE DRINK OF GOOD FELLOWSHIP
73r<?hp(/from
Pu/vfld/fiftopr On/y
5^
Sn
m
:
m
STYLE is delineated in
this "WARRIGAL" HAT.
Its distinctive shape, with medium crown, and
- 2iin. fiat set brim with bound edge, is the
approved style for to-day; and its excellent
quality of pure Australian fur felt characterises
it as a better-class hat that will give satisfac-
tory service.
Neatly finished with Him band, bow at side.
Colors: Cement, fawn, steel.
A Typical PEAPES HAT!
32/6
The registered “Warrigal” trade-mark is stamped
on the head leather.
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state size and color required.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Kissing Time”
riterion “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
ItyoLr “ Tiger KOSe ”
“His Little Widows”
' 8 Moving Pictures
Theatres Moving 'Pictures
a own Hall John McCormack Concerts
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Passing Show of 1920”
“ OYA i‘ “Yes, Uncle”
King s “The Eyes of Youth”
Tivoli “The Man from Toronto”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
JJ ELBA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciauium Dancing
♦
The exhibition of uncensored pictures,
arranged by the Australian War Museum
in aid of the National War Memorials Fund,
began at. the Sydney Royal on Saturday,
and a big audience was fascinated by
the story of Palestine fighting as
told by war-correspondent Harry Gullett.
The only interruptions came from a
group of Light Horsemen aloft, who
groaned when maps were thrown on the
screen; and as they had ridden and fought
over those wastes of sand, they were entitled
to recall their grief. A moving-picture
record of a machine-gun in action was
the only actual battle-piece; but there
were plenty of the next-best—clean-cut re-
cords of men, horses, camels and guns on
the move. On Monday night Major-General
Ryne, leader of the 2nd Light Horse Bri-
gade, yarned to another Royal audience
about the ride from Suez to Damascus. The
audience got a taste of the real “Old Brig.”
when the lanterni.st threw some mosque or
other on the screen. Glancing at it side-
ways, he dismissed it with, “Some people
care for this sort of thing: I don't.” No
d—d affectation about Rvrie. C. E. W.
Bean talks to-night (Thursday) and Friday.
& * * *
It is now suspected that Providence at-
tended the first Sydney performance of
“Tiger Rose” at the Palace, and modelled
the tremendous rains that followed on the
special stage-thunderstorm invented by J.
and N. Tait. The N. S. Wales State Gov-
ernment is now considering a proposal to
float a £2,000,000 loan locally and purchase
the thunderstorm as a pattern for use in
future droughts.
** * *
Sydney is so big now and the people are
so hungry for amusement that a show which
hits the popular fancy grows grey before
the hour comes to move on. Scientists who
have been watching “Kissing Time” at Her
Majesty’s record the opinion that the
chorus-girls are several weeks older than
they were when the run began. This is in
direct opposition to the theory that Father
Time mercifully passes by the chorus-girl.
* * -i: *
The faithful supporters of Sydney Tivoli
are now considering “His Little Widows”
a three-act frivolity which has rather more
plot than usual, a cheerful Mormon atmos-
phere, some music above the average and
enough clothes to go round. The peg on
which it all hangs is the petering out of a
copper-mme _ that is the earthly hope of
three young light comedians. When all seems
lost and there is a big dinner bill to pay, a
deputation of Salt Lake wowsers with
weeper whiskers tramp in and break it
to one of the firm that there is a fortune
of three million dollars waiting for him if
he will go and wed the 11 widows of the
late Samuel Lloyd. The two assistant
“Tilly of Bloomsbury ,”
at Sydney Criterion.
Frank Freeman as
Dick Mainicaring.
comedians drag
him to the matri-
monial sacrifice in
the wave of a tra-
velling revue co.,
and the rest is
cheerful lunacy.
** * *
Rex London, as
the reluctant bride-
groom, is a com-
edian of the hard-
working school
whom it is occa-
sionally wearying
t o watch. His
first A.D.C., Hugh
Steyne, gets his
laughs without per-
spiring for them.
The second gent-
help, Wm. Valen-
tine, is an honest
trier who hasn't
yet found his legs. Minnie Love, more
abundant than ever, smiles winsomely
and wears various 18-carat dresses;
but several of her songs don’t fit
her small voice. Marie La Yarre makes
a handsome Mormoness, and her comedy
work with Steyne lifts the show. Laurence
Hardinge is a likeable wowser in his family-
solicitor whiskers, and the Officiating Elder
bears a faint resemblance to the Norman
Lindsay devil. Muriel Cathcart scores well
as a butterfly widow. Harry Grist’s Home
for Widows in Salt Lake City would catch
the eye of any estate agent, and producer
J. W. Jackson as himself smokes a cigar
and bosses the players in a very natural
manner.
Those Sydney people who love delusion
are making the pilgrimage to the Playhouse,
where The Great McEwen is still pulling
legs at popular prices.
J: * * *
Oh, for an empty house or two,
And a flavor of the Bird!
Such are the opening lines of an epic en-
titled “The Monotony of Success,” which has
been written by a member of the “Tilly of
Bloomsbury” company, now operating at
Sydney Criterion. The poet’s sentiments
give an indication of the popularity of the
show.
v
The Catholic Art Assoc, of New York,
whose chief mission in life is alleged to be
to supply well-clad heroines, is responsible
for “The Victim,” a powerfully-acted story
written around the seal of the Confessionai.
In it the priest to whom a murderer has
confessed his crjme is accused and found
guilty of the blood-letting. Of course, the
priest cannot by the flicker of an eyelash
indicate the real murderer, so his riverence
goes to the chair. And equally of course
lie is saved by the timely dying testimony
of the guilty party and a headlong motor-
car journey. Sydney Crystal Palace and
Strand tell the story. At tjie Globe and
Haymarket “April Folly” is the big draw.
But it is not the “April Folly” of Cynthia
Stockley’s story. This is a badly-constructed
diamond-robbery yarn with none of the
sweet charm and sunshine of the other.
On the same bill “The Valley of the Giants”
transports you to the towering redwood
country, where Life and Love and Lasca
are still to be found in the raw. Wallace
Reid is the native of the valley who defies
the Lumber King from the city, and falls
in love with the enemy’s daughter. “The
Flag Lieutenant” keeps the British Navy
afloat at the Lyceum, and Sylvia Bremer is
the high-minded girl who disavows her wed-
ding-bells to save her Member of Parlia-
ment hero from hard labor on a charge of
bigamy.
** * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the management
“Tilly of Bloomsbury
at Sydney Criterion.
Mr. Stillbottle, the
bailiff (George Blunt),
calls.
continues to waste
a profusion of girl
on “The Passing
Show of 1920,” a
hotch-potch which
disimproves on ac-
quaintance, because
a first visit sets
one thinking of the
many things that
these things are
taken from, and a
second visit re-
minds one that the
other things were
brighter. The sketch
wherein Reginald
Roberts wears the
Eton jacket of boy-
hood and tl ; ap-
pearance of uncer-
tain age amounts
to a perversion of
the Tivoli story of
the man who took
a pill and flew back
to the past. Also
the character of a
young sassiety
matron is quite unsuited to the weird
querulous notes of Jennie Hartley. For
song or dialogue purposes the natty little
lady seems to have but one tongue, and
the oftener she appears the more she seems
like the Hemma of a previous occasion.
lies, Uncle, continues "to find openings
*° r ne charming and accomplished mouth
°e and the rich, fruity utterances
ot h leld Fisher. Grade Laver impersonates
gentleness, while Marie Eaton presents vig-
orous violence as before; and everything
that could possibly shock this paper’s
modesty is still conspicuous by its absence,
har be it from this paper to complain of
being insufficiently shocked. Better to suffer
in silence.
* its * *
At Mdbourne King’s the young woman
who inclines her heart to burglary for her
unborn infant’s sake will regret her indis-
cretion for the last time on Friday. Un-
necessary to remark that “Kindling” did
not catch on, despite the live baby in the
first act. The infant in question has played
to the gallery every night, but something
more than the vociferous prayer of a
righteous baby would have been wanted to
keep “Kindling” going. In “Eyes of Youth”
Emelie Polmi will be at her best for the
next three weeks.
* * A ifc
Supported by a small table and a bottle
of water, Norman Pearce entertained a fair
audiepce at Melbourne Assembly Hall on
Saturday. His programme included various
prose sketches and verses from overseas and
Australian sources, and revealed him as an
actor of larger dimension's than his recent
work with Emelie Polini suggested. One
gift he possesses is a good, flexible voice
with which he is able to picture a wide
range of literary characters. Probably the
hit of the evening was a bit of dialogue
between Bill Sikes and Fagin in “Oliver
Twist,” the Yid and the crook standing forth
in their sinister aspects by the sheer clever-
ness of Norman’s vocal photography. Many
other things, less difficult but equally at-
tractive, fell from his tongue during the
course of the entertainment. Conspicuous
in the procession were various carvings
from the pens of Tennyson, Adam Lindsay
Gordon, Q. J. Dennis and Edmund Fisher,
and _ the artist also realised with great
adroitness some of the humor of Mark
Twain, W. W. Jacobs and Harold Hansell.
3! * :S
The season of the Courtneidge Comedy Co.
will last another two or three weeks at Mel-
bourne Tivoli, and “The Man from Toronto”
“Yes, Uncle,"
Melbourne Royal.
Grade Lavers as
Mabel Mannering.
will see the season
out. Credit for the
success is allotted
in the proportions
of six for the
comedy and half a
dozen for the per-
formers. They act
with their heads,
hands and person-
alities in this play;
and in the case of
Margaret Swallow,
as Leila, the elbows
also go for a good
deal.
The Taits an-
nounce the long-
delayed concerts of
Daisy Kennedy in
Melbourne. ’ She
and her violin will
appear at the Town
Hall on Wednes-
day next (28th),
and the following
Saturday.
. The dinkum Aussie spirit is not in every
item perpetrated by the Digger Pierrots at
Melbourne Playhouse; but their show tickles
your sense of humor now and again. The
leading hand seems to be G. P. Hanna, who
scores off Billy Hughes with a stick of satiri-
cal charcoal and does diverting character-
work. Prank Perkins and George Pi’octor
keep sentiment simmering with soothing bal-
lads, and join up with Haslett Exton and
Roy Simpson in some tuneful quartettes.
Gus Dawson, the loveliest youth in the
party, is mainly notable for a Marcel wave;
and Stan Lawson’s colorless manner and
weak falsetto tend to deepen this paper’s
weariness of female impersonation. On the
other hand, Will Crawford gets nearly full
marks as a knockabout humorist. One of
his assets. is a rubber face that makes
Alfred Frith s restlesS countenance look like
a beginner.
** * *
Shirley Mason is the leading cash-gatherer
at Hoyt s Melbourne headquarters this week
As the jungle heroine of “The Elephant
Man, she causes heartache in a circus be-
fore settling down on the chest of the lead-
ing hero. “Peddler of Lies” at the same
theatre introduces Frank Mayo in a nest
of international crooks who own a female
Samson to push over policemen who get too
fresh At Hoyt’s Lyceum Dorothy Phillips
is establishing her “Right to Happiness”—
a proceeding that she is also repeating at
Hoyt s new Kinema at Albert Park. Con-
is fluttering her laces in
n l ? 6 iG- eiled at the Britannia;
and Mary Pickford’s ex-husband, Owen
Moore, is at the Melba thawing his frozen
heart in the society of a luscious flapper in
“Sooner or Later.”
❖ * sf: #
Another one-woman show :
Joan Weigall’s collection of landscapes at the
Decoration Gallery, Melbourne, is vorth a warble of
approval. She paints with an almost masculine
brush, laying down her color in broad, exuberant
masses that capture the essential features of a
scene. A characteristic effort is “The Porch,” with
its foreground pumpkin and its solid, well-realised
shadows, all suggesting the technique of a Brangwyn.
She is more reminiscent of Penleigh Boyd in “The
Willow Fantasy,” an insouciant rendering of droop-
ing yellow foliage over a dim and sluggish stream.
Elsewhere she shows a rich appreciation of Aus-
tralian sunlight and turquoise days. A captivating
cobalt sky is half the poetry in “One Sunny Morn-
ing,” and is a fitting accompaniment to the land-
scape that lies smiling in its sleep in “A Peaceful
Afternoon.” Yet in a less festive mood the artist is
equally appealing. “Between the Shadows,” with
its soothing greys, holds a permanent corner in
your memory, along with “The Clearing,” with its
swarm of cocoa-colored Saplings. Apart from her
brilliant promise in oils Miss Weigall is threatened
with a separate future in water-color. There are
only two or three examples in her show, but they
give the connoisseur an appetite for more.
“As You Were’’ was allowed but a brief
“The Man from
Toronto," at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Marie Rignold as
Ruth Wimbush.
season at Adelaide
Tivoli. It is a good
play with half a dozen
lines too many—they
should be censored.
Rex London bounded
through the centuries
untiringly, always
encountering Hugh
Steyne, Vera Pearce
(who looked great as
Queen Elizabeth), and
Marie Le Varre. Mcln-
tosh is now experi-
menting with a four-
nights run of Gals-
worthy’s “Silver Box”
by the Adelaide Re-
pertory. Carter, quick
and clever in all his
work, keeps the audi-
ence amused at the
Royal. When he be-
gins to efface himself
and his place is taken
by tons of machinery,
the proceedings tend to
become wearisome. The
third set of Diggers to
come along is the
Smart Set, brought by
Tait to the King’s;
they are strong in
girl - impersonators.
Pictures are on the humorous side—
Chaplin in the foolish-but-funny “Day’s
Pleasure” at West’s, Arbuckle making capi-
tal out of his weight at the Pav., and A 1
St. John on an unlikely bicycle at Wonder-
graph, where also Australian opera-singer
Leah Myers has a delightful turn. But the
illuminations and side-shows connected with
the Prince’s visit have been strong rivals all
the week.
Gladys Verna raised a power of music out
of her little body the other night at Sydney
Harmonic Choral Society’s concert, and the
audience didn’t fail to appreciate it. Con-
ductor William Bourne must have felt
nearly heart-broken at the faint response to
the Society’s appeal for funds to help it
to arise and smite all-comers at the Ballarat
South-street competitions. The choir was
in great form, and turned its numbers as
sweetly as running water.
“Old Pot”: The Australian has little
honor in his own country and so far as the
movies are concerned less in others, if the
treatment of Raymond Longford, producer
of “The Sentimental Bloke,” is a criterion.
In a notice of the American production it is
announced that “Wilfred Lucas directed the
photo-play.” But then, in a Yankee version
of “Singing Soldiers,” even Dennis has been
stood down. Apparently in America nobody
can do anything but an American. Still,
don’t let us throw too hard a brick. I wish
we had more of the same spirit in Australia.
“T. D. Emdee”: What some of the editors
of the plays have done to Shakspeare must
make William of Stratford squirm in his
houseboat on the Styx; yet even William
must own that some of his works would be
difficult to stage in their entirety in the
modern theatre. Jimmy Atholwood has tried
his hand at re-arranging “Hamlet,” and has
succeeded in concentrating the interest.
lan McLaren in his production of the play
in Melbourne used some of J.B.’s ideas, and
they were well received. One of Atholwood’s
convictions about the Prince is that he was
stage-struck ; hence the many allusions to the
theatre. Modern actors are said to be vain,
and analysts had already read that quality
into Hamlet’s character.
A lot of friendly people gave Theodore a
banquet by way of send-off from London, and
he disturbed the harmony with a violent
diatribe against the British financiers who
hadn’t lent him the £9,000,000 he asked for.
What Theodore’s friends should have given
him was a wet towel rather than a banquet.
Then it might have occurred to him that
there were several reasons for his failure.
For instance:—
(1) The flood of loose and unchecked talk about
repudiation among Theodore’s supporters.
(2) The awful wreck made of the Queensland
railways in which about £40,000,000 of loan
money is already invested. In five years these were
changed from an affair which paid expenses and
interest and showed a profit into one that little
more than paid working costs.
(3) The amount demanded was so enormous that
it suggested a last flutter. Nine millions for
Queensland would be equal, on a population
basis, to about £26,000,000 for N. S. Wales, and
its maddest spendthrifts never asked for new money
on that scale in one act.
Robinson, of Victoria, representing the most
solvent and self-reliant of the States, asked
for between £5,000,000 and £6,000,000 the
other day to renew an old loan which was
being partly provided for out of revenue—
not for a new razzle. That would have been
equal on a population basis to a mere
or Q ueens l an d—not Theodore’s
£9,000,000. And London, with very little
money to spare, raised difficulties even about
that little matter. But Robinson had more
sense than to fly off the handle about it.


BEAR AND PRINCE RIDING BUCKJUMPERS.
K
Vf
jV
U
y
\
/
a
p.
n
U'
1
&
*
Mi
a
■\
k PS
~-‘‘
mi
4^3
s
VY
~4*
\
\
>s
\
V.
MT.
m
iiw
sffeva 1
■
j-s-s
>-'vv.
''^&Bk
\
£5 S
»)
\
ass i
V\
ss
-
A V s -
, tr> £ ®*
ii
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
No buck jumper
Ever threw!
Here he watches
Prince and Bear
Sitting wild steeds
In mid-air.
Though the horses
Plunge and swerve,
And each back
Describes a curve,
There the smiling
Riders stay,
For that is
The “COBRA” way.


1
z ? >.
H
Special
Price,
12/6
The CO-SHIRT
or 3 for 36/*
Post
Free.
HERE’S ABOUT THE BEST BUY IN SHIRTS.
It s of good, strong Khaki—stand any amount of wear—besides being hard to soil.
For knocking about the Farm—in the Milking Shed or Boundary Riding as a
useful garment it simply has no equal.
Note the two pockets and well-fitting collar—good enough in appearance to allow
you to dispense with wearing a coat.
Special Price 12/6, or 3 for 36/-
FINNEY, ISLES <& CO. LIMITED,
The Store for Men BRISBANE.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Pish Tush”: “0.P.” (B. 15/7/’2O) is
over-sanguine in blaming the Williamson-
Tait coalition on to the Actors’ log. The
two firms have worried very little over the
log, but a good deal over the cost of print-
ing, scenery, costumes, etc., which might
be substantially reduced by joint manage-
ment. As a matter of fact, pourparlers for
the combine have been proceeding for nearly
a year, and the high contracting parties
have yet to sign the final agreement.
Naturally the combine won’t have any £6O-
--week a.ctors languishing on the unem-
ployed list. The cause of that unnecessary
expense has been removed by the amalgama-
tion.
Bert Ley wood writes from Calcutta:—
Eastern Tours, Ltd., is a Parsi concern, with J.
F. Madan and Co. as managing agents. The opera-
tions of the company are co’nfined to India, Burmah
and Ceylon. It will also devote attention to the
manufacture of purely Indian (mostly mythological)
films. Six camera experts (one English, one Ameri-
can, two French and two Italian) are at work with
native actors, and although the latter are a little
stilted, the films when completed have a wonderful
drawing power with the natives. Later on it is
intended to film Indian subjects for the world market.
Every town of any importance at all in the above-
mentioned territory has a Madan theatre. The com-
pany is not itself engaging theatrical cos. from Eng-
HIS QUALIFICATIONS.
THEARICAL DEADBEAT (to metropolitan
manager): “Oh, Mr. Winkelstein, Hi’d
be so grateful if it’s on’y a ‘walk-on.’
Hi useter play Romeo once!”
land, but leases the theatres. I am proceeding to
London at the end of May to engage a company for
the opening of the co.’s new Calcutta house, of
which I have obtained a lease. It will be ready
about November. It will be called the Excelsior
and will run in conjunction with the Bombay theatre
of the same name, which I have also secured for the
cold season. Bandman’s interests in India are now
confined to one theatre —the Empire, Calcutta; but
he has extended his operations in Egypt and Pales-
tine, and recently played his opera co. at Athens
and Constantinople. The repertoire (changed nightly)
includes “Maid of the Mountains,” “Chu Chin Chow,”
“The Boy,” “Arlette” and “The Cinema Star.”
A company of players from London at present in
India includes Jeanette Sherwin (daughter of Amy
Sherwin) and Charles Quartermaine, divorced hus-
band of Madge Titheradge. Daniel Frawley and
Reynolds Denniston are both here, each with an
American dramatic co., and there is an avalanche
of plays, good, bad and worse, fighting for bread
and greasepaint in the Indian summer of perspira-
tion and prickly heat.
Beatrice Miranda was the bright particu-
lar star at the London Lyceum when the
Carl Rosa Opera Co. took possession.
Beatrice inaugurated the season with a
splendid rendering of the title-role in “Aida.”
The press notices lavished praise on the be-
witching Australian.
“Showman”: Intrepidity, which runs in
all shapes, rarely takes the form of a
barber, life in an ill-ventilated shaving-
saloon not being conducive to the cultivation
of a cool, healthy courage. Yet the late
Charley Stephens, the Bristol barber, had
much more than passive pluck to risk death
by shooting Niagara Falls in a padded bar-
rel. He was addicted to parachute-descents
from balloons, and when travelling circuses
could find the customers he shaved them in
the lions’ den. Yes, Charley Stephens was
something more than game. He had the
dare-devil spirit, and his violent decease in
a padded barrel was a rotten finish to his
career. He didn't even die for* a new idea.
Years ago a man shot the lower falls at
Niagara in a barrel, or else diNl in the
attempt. One naturally forgets the name
of the silly man and what happened "to him.
C. B. Cochran,
the Anglo-Amori-
can play-producer
who divides hi s
time about equally
between London
and New York—
he has just intro-
duced the five-year-
ol d “M an Who
Came Back” to
London —tells a n
English interviewer
that plain theft of
ideas is rampant.
When last in
N’York he made
use of his hotel’s
resident shorthand-
writer, who “pre-
sently hinted to me
that he might be
very useful to me
in another way.
‘You see, sir, most
of the other Lon-
don managers who
come over employ
me to go around
our theatres taking
down the chief
comic songs and
scenes.’ ”
“Tilly of Bloomsbury,'”
at Sydney Criterion.
Abel Mainivaring
(Arthur Styan), the
henpecked husband.
“Two Pip”: I wish Hughes would swing
his War Precautions Act just once more
and prohibit the exhibition of inaccurate war
films from the U.S. Those now deluging
the movies -will give Australian kiddies an
entirely false idea of America’s part in the
war. That U.S.A. patriots think it neces-
sary to pull their countrymen’s leg in the
interests of the Great Republic is no reason
why the same efforts should be repeated in
Australia. We’ve got our own patriotism
to develop.
“Film Fan”: “Stargazer” finds fault (B.
8/7/’2O) with the bush characters in “The
Breaking of the Drought,” suggesting that
every man “has an air of having been
loaded into unfamiliar garb for the occasion.”
Then the inevitable comparison is set up
with a Yankee photo-play, and the Yankee
woodsman’s garb is loudly applauded. Here
we have an example of the uninformed
criticism which is greatest of all the diffi-
culties the Australian product has to con-
tend with. As a fact, of the three male
principals in “The Drought” who appear
in the country scenes two are farmers in
real as well as reel life ; and all the others,
men and women, belong to, and always have
belonged to, the great North-West.
“J.F.H.”: The song-writer who makes his
pile is a rare bird: the composer and the
publisher usually annex 99 per cent, of the
profits. T. J. Marzials, who wrote a score
of popular songs—“Twickenham Ferry” and
“The Miller and the Maid” among the num-
ber —has had his will proved at £l4O.
From Paris: —
This is the day of the aged. Sara Bernhardt, at
70-odd and with an artificial leg, has come back
to the stage to play the heavy part of Queen Athalie
in the old tragedy of that name; and she talks of
taking a music-hall engagement. A really old lady,
Daynes-Grassot, guaranteed 88, is playing a grand-
mother in a comedy at the Athenee. The two
Guitrys have scored another success in “Beranger” ;
Lucien is a clever Tallyrand, and Sacha has the
pluck to show the poet’s head as bald as (at 25)
it was. Paris thinks more of England in a
theatrical way than it did before the war. Bern-
hardt gets all her wigs from Clarkson’s, the Alhambra
variety-show has a cast mostly English, and the
Tiller Girls are a feature of the new Folies Bergeres
revue. The rest of this is mainly a display of the
undressed which even Paris finds pretty strong; the
one humorous touch is a scene dealing with the
present famine-prices for stockings, all the ladies
getting their legs painted to match their costumes.
Most of the time London swallows im-
ported American stuff wholesale; then it
gets a sudden idea that English “taste’ - re-
quires an adaptation to local conditions.
“Within the Law” might be supposed so
dyed-in-the-wool American as to defy any
alteration of that kind. Yet, at a recent
revival at the Kingsway (London), the
crooks and the “stool-pigeon” were all care-
fully made into English, the bullying police
became improbable Scotland Yard men, and
all Aggie’s wealth of Yankee slang was sac-
rificed to make her a Cockney.
“Peter”: Edmund Gwenn is showing fine
form as the senior tornado in Galsworthy’s
blusterous “The Skin Game” at St. Martin’s,
London. He is cast as a member of the
profiteerage whose pride turns to gunpowder
under the cold scorn of a blue-blooded neigh-
bor whom he tries to smoke out by sur-
rounding him with a forest of factory chim-
neys. His ferocity is richer and fuller than
his historical violence as Jeffreys when he
snorted at Sweet Nell in Australia.
Harry Dearth, the baritone who objected
to standing up straight on the platform, was
recently singing at London Trocadero,
“during afternoon tea.” And naturally the
very casual Dearth would himself be served,
whilst singing, with a cup of Pekoe, which he
would rest on the piano and put to his lips
when so dispoged. And there might even
be a spoonful of brandy in it.
Volinin. the elegant young Russian who
danced with Gen6e. and Halina Schinolz in
Australia, was lately performing with Pav-
lova in her ballet at Drury Lane. Pavlova
was a chrysanthemum broken from its stem,
and Volinine (he has grown an e) a
poet who at first tries to revive the dying
flower, but ends by falling in love with it.
A poetic lover who longs to live with a
chrysanthemum in ballet skirts is an advance
on the pallid aesthete of the Oscar Wilde
period who was content to sit up all night
with a lily.
“0.K.”: The labored ingenuities of revue
seem to have nearly exhausted the ideas for
bringing on a string of girls from unex-
pected places. In the Firm’s “Passing Show
of 1920” you get girls popping up fyom
behind a parapet, as though they emerged
from space. Still there are devices yet un-
tried. I’ve an idea of a demon brooding on
a housetop whilst 45 young ladies in grey
garments come stealing up from a chimney-
pot, like smoke, and circle round him until
he changes into a conflagration. Then they
would all disappear down the chimney,
leaving the fire to burn itself out.
“Hamfat”: The “Charles Wood, actor,”
who has figured in a Sydney case concerning
some domestic disturbances is a brother of
the robustious Alf Woods of the Woods-
Williamson combination. Charles stage-
managed that show for a long time,
and once at a rehearsal, when mem-
bers of the company were crowding
round the wings, he rebuked them with a
“Stand away from the obscenium, there!”
He played, amongst other parts, Lord
Robert Ure in “The Christian.” Brother Alf
and the Williamson lady have been doing
moderately well in the Cold Country and
Ireland.
“Double Bass”: The artist behind the
bassoon had been buzzing too loudly, so
veteran conductor Slapoffski leant sideways
and said : “Piano ! Piano !” The orchestral
bee looked reproachfully at Slap, and nodded
at his music. “But 'it says ‘Forte,’ ” he
protested. Slap, grinned savagely. “Yes,
but you needn’t play it with the cork out!”
“HousebiH”: “Bardi” (P,. l/7/’2O) is
wrong in saying Frederick Esmelton got his
first start with Maggie Moore. Esmelton
began with Tom Buckley, and soon after
joined Ward Lyons and Marian Willis, who
opened at BallaVat on Monday, July 9,
4894, playing in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” He
afterwards went as agent for Lyons, who
is now with Philip Lytton.
“Orb”: Mention by “T.C.J.” (B.
15/7/’2O) of the Little Willie who refused
to die conjures up a long queue of Back-
blocks’ angel kiddies I have met. With all
shortweight “East Lynne” cos. the custom
is to. snare the first youngster to hand, irre-
spective of age, sex, weight, color or religion,
as long as the makeshift is not too tall.
Millie has only one line in his first scene,
“Mamma, may I ride to town with you to-
day?” and generally manages to get this
off without accident. But for the more
talkative deathbed scene the mummer’s
darling merely poses on the pillows, while
Barbara Hare or someone babbles the lines
from under the bed. Meanwhile Willie’s
real-life ma usually deadheads in the front
seats, and makes ex parte remarks to the
audience about her offspring’s wonderful
talent. It is on record that old Ned Hollo-
way once got under the bed to speak up
for' the moribund Willie, but when his un-
mistakable foghorn voice boomed out,
“ANGEL OF HIS DREAMS ,” AT SYD-
NEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Collet Dobson, as the grand old fool of melo-
drama, swoons and loses a valuable key.
“Madame Vine, how long will it be before
I die?” even Mutton Creek could scarce
forbear to cheer. At Bungledoo our crowd,
arriving late, secured the services of a
dwarf from a friendly side-show. When
made-up he looked the part, but unhappily
our house had mostly paid sixpence a time
to see our prodigy during the day, and his
appearance as Little Willie wasn’t popular.
Three Little Willies I have stormed with
are now leading actresses—Lorna Forbes,
Ida Ingersoll and Beattie Holloway.
“Fax”: Marie Lohr’s latest production in
London presents her as the half-Jewish
daughter of a Christianised Shylock, who
curses her for having gone astray with a
young johnnie from Eton. When the old
man refuses to provide means for Marie to
marry the author of her unborn babe and
start housekeeping, she forges Dad’s name
to a cheque for a thousand ; also she flirts
incidentally with an artless curate and asks
him whether she wouldn’t be an appetising
meal for a hungry man. But a happy end-
ing to the play is procured by the johnnie’s
weakness for betting. He backs a winner,
refunds Shylock the thousand on the forged
cheque, and gets the parental consent to his
marriage with Marie. The moral seems
mixed: the audience gets no hint of what
might have happened to the heroine if her
boy had backed a loser.
“Silas” : He had made his money suddenly
on a Westralian field, and was living the life
of an independent gentleman at a 30-bob-
a-week boarding-house in Melbourne. He
had gone mushy, over 3 music-hall performer
he had seen in Perth, and followed her east.
His method of courtship was to sit well up
in the stalls, and throw bouquets at the lady,
with presents secreted among the blooms.
One night the girl’s he-partner drifted in
after the turn, and seated himself next
Jim. “S’pose you recognise me?” he said.
“Yes,” faltered Jim; “you appear with Miss
Fortesk.” “I appear with my wife,” said
the other emphatically. .Jim curdled up, ex-
pecting a shocking asasult; but the man
went on: “I just want to give you a tip to
be careful where you buy. That diamond
ring you gave her last week was a schlanter.”
Jimmie went away, and fell in love with
an unprotected chorus-girl at Her Majesty’s.
BALLADE TO THE FIRM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have a plea to urge on you,
A mild request from maidens fair
Who grow most weary of revue
And toss their crops of “buster” hair;
On such an army you can’t dare
To turn a cold reproachful glance;
Of chorus girls we’ve had our share—
Now, why not give the men a chance?
Here, then, you have our point of view:
We do not wish to sit and stare
For ever on a favored few
Bold cats who Walk with shoulders bare,
In dresses wondrous rich and rare
Their brazen beauty to enhance;
For sights like this we uo not care—
Now, why not. give the men a chance?
Our envious hearts they but imbue
With blank distress and dull despair;
Your men are frail, and very few,
And so we weary of the fare;
Of our rebellion beware,
’Twould make a raid on your finance
If we the theatre should forswear- —
Now, why iiQt give the men a chance?
Envoy:
Sirs, we may pause upon the stair
And go no further for romance,
But kiss the tall commissionaire—
Now, why not give the men a chance?
viCToniA.
THE HUNGRY FLAPPER.
AS OTHERS SEE US.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
James, as a fine, alert young man,
Near six foot high, and square of frame,
Pranced in the chorus with the clan,
And never felt a sense of shame.
When told to bob and simper thus
He did it, and he made no fuss.
He bent like this, and bowed like that,
He grinned, and nodded with his head,
Knelt on his knee, or tumbled flat,
Just as the fierce producer said,
And trotted in a foolish line
In common with the other nine.
The show was fixed up for the screen
Before its lengthy term was run.
The young man went with mind serene,
And saw himself, and he was done.
Next morning when our James awoke
He got a billet wheeling coke!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


/’T.v
Z' Y=
he'
>&*
' _V
~V
V
DEPENDABLE - EFFICIENT,
AND
nmiiiiiMnniiiiiiiiiiinißan
MILES CHEAPER and AUSTRALIAN,
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C? L-
Founders of the rubber industry in Australasia,
‘AXES Be NEW ZEALAND.
V
\*
*• f-


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redfern. Sydney.
LEWIS&
WtIITTYI
MAKERjj
.A; ... .>
\ 'A
m
m
■s';.’:
#ss3
wmm
S'fSfiS
'." I*r
/■sreESSt;
£B i
S*sS**
*****
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefai
can touch you
THE NAME OF
PARIS
is the endorsement of perfection, and
your guarantee of Garter quality.
RETAILED EVERYWHERE.
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
0
w
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mears’ Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.
We would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Guarantee Proves its Bonafides.
The Meats Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George Street, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPROTING
NEEDS
Everybody seemed to think that Pistolier
and Mountain God (with a stand up) would take
the Hurdle and Steeple at Caulfield last Saturday.
Everybody was right, especially in the case of the
chaser, for the big son of Mountain King was
left to come in alone, in a turf way of speaking.
All going well in the meantime, the God is bound
to be warmly fancied for the Australian Steeple
next month, notwithstanding that he made more
than one blunder in the National and eventually
tilted his jockey out of the saddle. As much may
be said of Pistolier. He has grown old in being
fancied for Nationals and Australian .Hurdle races,
and two years ago he was placed third in both. The
old -’un has been running into form lately, and his
fall in the National was merely an accident that
might happen to the best of jumpers; stijl, he
isn’t, a good jumper, and the horse that ran second
to him on Saturday—Sir Mnemon—is likely to re-
verse their positions next month. Remembering how
Sir Mnemon wore Beltane down at the end of the
long journey last year, one is inclined to fancy him
a little this time for both Hurdle and Steeple. But
it is early to fancy anything.
Bright Plume was given a chance in an 11-fur-
longs race on the flat at Caulfield, but, although he
finished third, the Bright' Steel horse hardly justified-
a stable plunge on him. The hurdle-racer was
slow off the mark, and for more than two-thirds of
the journey he was whipping in the field. Then he
put in a sprint which made his defeat in the
National look very unlucky. Sandule must have
caught him on one of his sprintless days, And now
the books have got Bright Plume at an absurdly
short price for the coming event at Caulfield.
Norman Godby’s capture of the Grand
National double recalled that the Miller stable
brought off the same double twice. In 1889 Red-
leap and Eaglet were the pair, and three years
later Redleap scored the double, following up this
success by carrying 14st. and more to the front
in the big steeple at Caulfield. There never was
such another good thing as Redleap, at 9st. 81b.,
in the first Grand National Hurdle he started for.
Another fine hurdler in Corythus was weighted at
list. 21b., or 221 b. heavier than the “dark” four-
vear-old, and the two came away from the field.
But the light-weight was only waiting on the crack
for a while. A day or two later Redleap went
wrong in his feet, or he would certainly have won
the steeple that year. Then came a three-years
pause, during which he might have run away with
a Melbourne Cup, under the weight ailotted to him
as a jumper, had his feet permitted of the gigantic
animal being trained when the ground was no
longer soft. In the winter of ’92 the champion was
fit enough to win the Hurdle and two Steeplechases,
as aforesaid, after which he went into retirement
for good. Redleap was always trained in private,
and he needed no gallops in public to shake him
up, like the fashionable non-triers of these days.
His one race in the G. N. Steeple was the first
time he had travelled the steeplechase course at
Flemington, and the first time he came to the
stone wall Redleap was evidently puzzled by its
appearance. The Millers’ private training-ground
for jumpers was a replica of the Flemington course
in all respects save the stone wall.
At time of writing it looks as though
both British Arch and Two Blues may have a go in
the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield next month. The
Tasmanian sticker has survived his recent falls, seem-
ingly, and British Arch, who did some hurdle-racing
two years ago, has been backed a little for the 34-
miles event. Both he and Two Blues are Waverley
Handicap winners, and between now and August 7
they may become fully qualified for the long, but
not-too-strenuous, jumping job at Caulfield. If Polyg-
amist could win, surely Two Blues or the Arch
might scramble home.
Tattersall’s Club in Adelaide got up a
hasty race-meeting for the Prince’s visit. Officially,
his afternoon was “free,” but he turned up at Vic-
toria Park for lunch; after Which he rode round
the course, climbed the stewards’ lookout, and
finally pressed to be allowed to start the principal
race, after he had shaken hands with all the jockeys.
It was won by Paratoo, belonging to Tattersall’s
chairman, H. P. McLachlan (this is the name of a
station of his, and his friends generally call him
by it, too). That the start was not a good one, and
that the starter had a good wager on the winner,
were points that did not trouble the crowd at all;
but naturally McLachlan had to stand a good deal
of chaff afterwards. Another day the Prince motored
to Morphettville, had three hard racing gallops, and
made a great impression on the handful of sporting
men who had the tip to be present.
* * * *
There are so few stayers racing round
Sydney nowadays that the sprinters are helping
themselves to 10-furlong suburban . handicaps.
Nautch Girl took one the other day, and on Satur-
day Jennie B. got home at Canterbury Park. These
things only happen, of course, when the first part
of the trip is taken at the leisurely gait of a
garden roller and the race boils down to a frantic
dash over the last four furlongs.
* * * *
Brattle’s daughter Clatter, having shown
some of her mother’s pace a week earlier, carried
much cash in the first division of a race for maiden
young’uns. She finished ninth in a field of nine. The
fine-looking filly will do better than that yet, though.
She was handicapped by a heavy cold on Saturday.
At Victoria Park (S.A.) on July 13 the
Prince extended his hand to Clem Hill, who is one
of the stipes. “I remember you at Lord’s when I
was a small boy,” said the heir to the Throne
and Purse, “and I also recollect the fast bowler
with your team—a fine, well-set-up young fellow.”
That was poor Tibby Cotter, who took the count in
Egypt. Incidentally, the princely punter backed two
winners and a second, and won £4O on the meeting.
* * * *
Buchan, Lord Aster’s brilliant Sunstar
horse, won the Eclipse Stakes last week with the
Australian F. Bullock up. He took the same classic
event last year, and was only narrowly beaten in
the Derby by Grand Parade. The one-time people’s
idol Tetratema hgd the assistance of Barney Cars-
lake at Sandown, but finished out of a place.
The fox as a dangerous beast to hunt is
something new, but one
that was found in a park
in the middle of Walsall
(England) sent a pursuer
to hospital with a badly-
bitten thigh. English cus-
tom bars the taking of a
gun to a fox in any pos-
sible circumstances; and
when the beast had been
chased for an hour through
the shrubberies and over
the ice on the lake, the
first man to come to grips
seized ’ him by the tail —-
and found he had a highly-
effective other end.
WALTON HUNT,
champion sprinter of
N. S. Wales, who is
to represent Australia
at Antwerp in
Olympic games.
The concluding matches of the first round
of Sydney Rugby League competition were played
last Saturday. Souths vanquished Easts by 14
points (two tries four goals) to 11 points (three
tries one goal). Within 15 minutes of the start
Snowy Norman, Easts’ skipper, was given his walk-
ing ticket by referee Dickenson for talking back.
Souths played only five forwards, and used the
spare man in the three-quarter line. Supporters
were bitter in their remarks about skipper Fuse-
dale, but, as things turned out, his judgment was
sound. Knowing that Sandy Pearce would prevail
over the Souths’ rake, he decided to strengthen his
back division and play a spoiling game. Easts’
defeat was due to Wally Messenger’s inability to
do better than hoist one goal in five attempts. ’ The
seasiders could do nothing with the nippy Souths’
backs. Smacker Blair made a hack of Caples.
Swinnerton was always superior to Moses Kaufman,
the tricolor serummer. Hobo Cubitt, who nursed
his bad leg all day, was a passenger. Thumbling
Wright and Rex Norman were the only East backs
to play up to form. Norman’s line kicking and
tackling were a treat to behold, and when Thumbling
did get possession he went for his natural. He
scored twice, and narrowly missed doing it a third
time. Easts’ forwards got the ball whenever they
liked, but their backs could do nothing with it.
Botsy Williams played the game of his life, and
waddled over the chalkline with the Surfers’ third
try. Souths’ best performer was Smacker Blair;
he was in every movement, and handed Caples many
comforters. The ancient Hallett was superb: he
tackled artistically, and his Marathon punts were
heartbreaking to the Eastern twelve. Boxhead
Horder’s try was the result of a glorious piece of
combined play. (Gordon Vaughan heaved to Blair
50yds. from Easts’ line. Smacker transferred to
Horder to Fusedale to Vaughan (who had doubled
around) to Lawrence, back to Fusedale to Horder,
who finished the job. The movement was executed
at top speed, and the passing was hip-high, two-
handed and sharp, Souths’ five ruekers were fine,
and McGrath performed like a racehorse. Oxford
bogged in in great style, and piloted four goals
from various angles. Constable Baker also shone,
arresting many of the Easts in their goalward
careers. The other matches provided surprises. Bal-
main, the premiers, only just lobbed home ahead
of Harold Horder and his Northern tribe. Scores:
seven to five. Wests (minus Gilbert and Farnsworth)
took a 10-to-5 hiding from the Dirty Reds. Univer-
sity lathered Annandale by 13 points to eight.
Duck-boards would have been in order on
most of the grounds at the finish of the twelfth round
of Sydney Rugby Union competition last Saturday.
Mosman produced a strong forward team against
Uni., and lost by only seven points. Nothling’s three
goa]£ with the' sodden ball were the most notable
feature of the match. Easts played a strong defen-
sive game against Manly, after being practically
presented by the villagers with the one point by
which they won ultimately. Mingay excelled for
the losers, and Eyre also shone. Beith, Easts’ last
line of defence, covered himself with mud and glory.
The rest, with the exception of Douglas and Marrot,
whose indefatigable efforts smothered the opposing
backs, were patchy. Newtown unexpectedly walloped
Wests by 23—12. They played the ball while their
opponents man-hunted. McKay was the real thing
for the winners, and Walters and Parry bogged in.
Wogan, as usual, was overworked for the losers,
although Prendergast and Wall gave him support.
Norths against Glebe-Balmain (0 —15) showed
wretched -form, and their tackling was of the affec-
tionate variety. The G.-B. forwards were always
top-dogs, and kept the backs continually on the
move. Mayne bumped his way through time and
again, and was most unselfish, and J. Grose and
Bond deserve special mention. Fox was the most
prominent of the Northern rabble, and Humphries
frequently handled the ball.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Union team to meet
the Maorilanders on Saturday lacks ruggedness. The
visitors, whose side compares favorably with that
of 1914 but is a long way below the 1903 invaders,
are always particularly strong in this department.
A. S. Walker’s inclusion, as half, is unfortunate,
Buchanan, from every point of view, being the man
for the position. The rest of the backs are a fine
lot, although it’s a pity Wogan had to stand out.
The forwards, except the two countrymen, Ormiston
and Dunn (who showed fine form on Saturday for
Mosman), and Watson, are not a particularly aggres-
sive bunch, but they are fast. Of course, the selec-
tion of the forwards is bound to be experimental
at this stage; there are so many with claims. The
eight picked to represent Metropolitan v. Combined
Country are very little inferior to the rep. pack.
* * * *
Under Australian rules on Saturday.
Railway hurled itself at Paddington at Hampden
Oval, Sydney. At half-time Paddington led 28-27,
and at * the third quarter Railway were in front
35-30. The final term was equally divided between
fight, football and the efforts of the police to main-
tain law-’n’-order. At the bell, Railway were ahead
by 37-36. The only double goal-kicker was Lee
(Railway). In the other match Easts defeated
Sydney by 54-19. For the premiership, Newtown,
Easts and Railway are level with 24 points each;
but Newtown has yet to play a deferred match.
* * * *
Carlton’s champion follower was missing
from Melbourne ’ball on Saturday, and against the
active little forwards of ’Roy the team failed splen-
didly^—by 62 points to ’Roy’s 75. (The absentee
—Boromeo —had put his elbow into an opponent
the previous week-end, and had collected one to go
on with in return, whereupon the League suspended
the aggressor for two weeks, and the retaliator for
one.) A 30,000 crowd cheered the combatants. Over
on Souths’ ground the Red-and-Whites argued with
Essendon as to which was better fitted to occupy
fourth place in the procession. A fierce discussion
raged till within a few minutes of the end. At that
time the scores were level. Souths roused them-
selves for a last effort; and the ’Dons couldn’t re-
spond, losing a fine game by 49 points to Souths’
62. ’Wood replaced a good man (hung up for three
weeks for stoush) with another equally useful, ahd
had no difficulty in keeping the upper-hand of Mel-
bourne. After a rather unscientific discourse, the
adjudicators awarded the Magpies' 75 points and
the Red Legs 59. Melbourne, like Geelong and St.
Kilda, may now consider itself out of the argu-
ment. These two latter teams held a picnic at Gee-
long, and there were times when most of one team
seemed to be ladling . out stoush to a good part
of the other. The seasiders walloped the Saints
by 113 points to 62 —most of the 113 being added
in the last 20 minutes.
The inter-college football match in Adel-
aide —there is only one —secured the attendance of
the Prince, as 19 years ago it had that of
his father and mother. He was able to give
it a few minutes only, and spent most of them
shaking hands with teams and umpires, and climbing
on a fence to make a short speech to the boys. The
match itself was won by St. Peter’s, through almost
uncanny shooting. Everything went home for them,
and at one time they had 13 goals and only two
behinds. The final score was 15 goals 6 behinds to
Prince Alfred’s 12 goals 8 behinds. The result
last year was much the same, but before that the
Princes had a run of six wins. The old boys of the
two schools met next day and the result was reversed;
Saints were still the straighter shots, but their score
of 8 goals 8 behinds was just topped by the others’
7 goais 17 behinds.
* * * *
The favorite, J. H. Kirkwood, won the
open golf championship of Australia all the way
at Kensington (Sydney) last week. There was
nothing sensational about his effort —no record
drives or hair-raising putts. It was simply a two-
davs’ exhibition of arid faultlessness. When he
didn’t beat bogey (and on one occasion he did so
by two strokes) he equalled him. His score for
the four rounds (290) was 12 better than the pre-
vious best in this event. Clyde Pearce took 311
to win the 1908 championship over the same course.
The record for the open championship of Britain is
291. D. G. Soutar was runner-up with 295 —a win-
ning total in nine years out of ten. He would have
come close to downing Kirkwood but for rotten
luck on the greens. The amateurs were out of it.
Ivo Whitton, the 1913 champion, was smitten by
’flu at the last moment. T. S. Cheadle did best
(he put up a round of 74 on the second day) ;
but the most creditable performance in all the cir-
cumstances was that of the sexagenarian, N. F.
Christoe, who totalled 321, including a remarkable
78 in the final round. *
Joe Symonds appeared full of confidence
as he faced Sid Godfrey (pale and anxious-looking, as
usual) at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. But
things were not as they seemed. Joseph was suf-
fering ’ from punch-shock, and in the first round
he had no block to the Australian’s famous right.
A dull thud, and Symonds went down for eight.
Another, and the gong saved him. Godfrey won
the second round on points, and in the third he
again put the enemy down twice. Then Symonds
began using the “shamrock” —a punch which he
employed with effect on Jackie Green at their first
meeting. It is a devastating foul if it lands pro-
perly, and referee Wallis cautioned him. In the
sixth round he almost outed Godfrey with a peerless
exhibition of the well-known hit, and looked pained
when he was once more warned. The Australian
was now rattled, and looked tired; which is a
way he has, anyhow, but which probably expressed
the state of the case on this occasion. He had had
to waste to reach the stipulated 9st., and Joseph’s
wrist had jarred his chin fully half a dozen times.
In the middle of the seventh Symonds, who was
now fighting confidently and at the top of his
form, shamroeked Godfrey so palpably that Wallis
stepped in and ended what had the makings of a
great go. The offender affected astonishment, but
he didn’t do it well. At the time the blow fell
Symonds had found a means of evading Godfrey’s
right, and he was dominating most of the situa-
tions. The gameness of both was admirable. There
were five prelims.—one light- and four feather-
weight battles.
* * * *■
Tommy Burns was never a first-flight
heavyweight. But as a ring financier he has had
no peer in the annals of pugilism. In his last
week’s contest with Beckett the stout and elderly
come-back was actually able to nail £6OOO as his
share of a £9250 purse, just as he left Johnson
a mere remnant of the gate when he went down
before the negro in Sydney. The much-boomed con-
test was evidently a frost, Beckett overwhelming
his middle-aged adversary in seven rounds. Pat
O’Keefe, who was Tommy’s sparring partner in Aus-
tralia in 1908, was again in his friend’s corner.
* * * *
When the Vic. A.A.A. brought off its
finals in championship events at Melbourne Athe-
namm Hall, it completed the most profitable annual
meeting of its young life. Nothing very unexpected
happened, though A. G. Carr,
in the bantam boxing class,
proved even a little cleverer
than Gannon, the clever
champion from last year; and
A. F. Kay,
a highly-
experienced
feather-
weight,
repeated
his previous win.
But the star per-
former with the
mittens was Kane,
who mad e all
other lightweights
look poor ama-
teurs. The oldest
habitu6s seem
agreed that Kane
is the cleverest
and most attrac-
tive boxer these
A.A.A. meetings
have had. In the
final he pleased
himself and had
everything his own
way. Among the
welters F. E.
Martyr received
enough punish-
ment from Pren-
dergast in the
final to justify his
ominous name;
and in the two
heavier divisions
W. G. Mclntosh
made a plucky at-
tempt to win
both. He got the
middles award
o n points, and
made a good
show in the
IVO WHITTON,
the golf champion,
whose illness kept him
from the Sydney
matches this week.
last round for the heavies; but meanwhile E.
Scott had conclusively out-pointed his - over-taxed
antagonist. The star wrestlers were the Jenkin
brothers, in light and heavy classes, neither of
them, however, getting an absolute fall in the final.
Hoy Jenkin, the heavyweight, renewed the champion-
ship he held for five years previously—l9ll to 1915
—and his distinction begins to grow monotonous.
*■ * ' * *
N. S. Wales A.A.A. five-mile open road-
race at Sydney on Saturday was a gift for the
rear-markers. H. S. Grandemange (15sec.) won over
the stiff Hurstville course from W. H. Sweeting
(lmin. lOsec.), and H. liayden (scr.). Hayden
(cross-country champion) and Grandemange (three
miles' State champion) took 2fimin. 30sec. They
meet Bob Fitzsimmons for the State title next month.
* * * *
George Towns, who died last week at
Dempsey Island, Hunter River (N.S.W.). was head
of the greatest sculling family under the Southern
Cross, some members being George and Charlie (ex-
world’s champions), Jack (ex-amateur champion),
and Walter, Arthur, Norman, Theo. and Edward.
The Yankee tennis-players have proved
their mettle by qualifying to meet Australia for
the Davis Cup. Gobert and Laurentz, representing
France, got only one set in the three matches
decided, Laurentz scoring 6-—4 in his first innings
with Tilden, but falling hopelessly behind in the
next three sets. Johnston, the Californian cham-
pion, had no trouble with Gobert, and in the Doubles
Johnston and Tilden lowered the Tricolor without
exertion, the final figures reading 6—2, 6—3, 6 —2.
Johnston and Tilden were a surprise-packet for the
Doubles, inasmuch as Garland and Williams had
been originally selected and had beaten their team-
mates in the World’s Championship Doubles at
Wimbledon. Despite their big win, however, Gar-
land and Williams are not regarded as a reliable
pair, Williams, twice Singles champion of the U.S.,
being comparatively untried in the Doubles game.
Holland having retired, the Yanks had only to
beat Britain to get a trip to Australia. This they
accomplished, but the Englishmen, Parke and Kings-
cote, gave them a good run for their money, the
Americans having to play all they knew to win.
It was suggested that the Henley (MelbA
Regatta Assoc, should engage Felton and Barry to
give a sculling exhibition on the Yarra next Regatta
day, but it seems that the rules won’t let it.
GOLD FOR GALES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Shamrock IV. carried a crew of 32, every one
of whom was paid a large weekly salary, with the
promise of a legacy for life in the event of their
winning the cup.”— W. M. Marks, M.P.
The crew of the speedy Shamrock IV. are differently
placed from most.
She does her best in a spanking breeze —or so her
designers boast.
And so when the wind dies down, and quietude
reigns from stern to stem,
The odd effect on the seamen is this: it puts the
wind up them.
In ’longshore circles, respecting cash, a highly popu-
lar phrase
Is “Whistle for it!”—implying scorn and an almost
hopeless case.
Aboard the Shamrock whistling for cash is a uni-
versal wheeze:
The seamen do it whenever they start to whistle up
a breeze.
On many a craft a gale of wind means terror for
life and limb,
It is not so on the Shamrock IV.: no tempest, how-
ever grim,
Appals her sailors. They greet the wind with
chanteys of joy and praise.
Since, as a result, all eagerly hope the wind them-
selves to raise.
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


You May Have to Fight Some Day!
Perhaps when you least expect it, the
urgent need to defend yourself or your
property may be thrust upon you.
That is the time you wish you had
learned to box—the time when you
would give most of what you possess
for the ability to deliver the good,
telling punch that would bring you
out a winner.
LEARN BY POST.
I will let you into the secrets of the game as 1
have learned them from the world’s greatest masters
of the gloves. I will show you how to deliver a
punch harder than that of an untrained man stones
heavier than yourself. I will take you through the
science of Boxing in easy stages, until, under my
personal advice and criticism, you are able to hold
your own in any company.
You ought to write for my illustrated Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which gives
fuller particulars and cost of tuition. Just write
your name and address on this advertisement and
post to me. Send three stamps for postage.
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
&
8
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
300 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
No Other
Lubricant
can be
' WAKEFIELD
%
MOTOR
OIL
“just as good” as
( XMICEFIELD
Reea.
MOTOR OIL]
C.C. Wakefield# Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, Sydney; 8 London.
£!j ■
m-
»
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 a.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
No Gold
is too
obstinate
for
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
Its wonderful penetrating
powers get right to the seat
of the trouble and destroy the
germs that cause the cold.
Greathead’s is no new-fangled
cure-overnight remedy, but a
reliable household medicine
of 45 years’ standing. It is a
sure cure for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat,
Croup, Quinsy, Fever, Ague,
etc.
GET A BOTTLE
FROM YOUR
GROCER
OR CHEMISt.
Think Well
Over It
and then make up your mind that
there is no longer any need to
suffer from Constipation—lack-of
tone, depression, Indigestion, Dys-
pepsia, Morning Sickness, if you
will only use—
GREATOIDS
—the Small but Great Liver Pills;
for these tiny little pills, so easy
to take and so simple and sure in
effect, are prepared from the finest
ingredients by an expert Chemist
with one object, and that is to
tone up the system, remove depres-
sion, and they
Will Cure You.
So whenever you feel a little out
of sorts and run down, just take an
occasional dose.
Obtainable at all Grocers’ and
Chemists’.
Small Size, 1/-; Large (Double the
Quantity), 1/6.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
12/- per lb. G/- per ilb. 3/- per 41b.
Postage—N.S.W: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Sd. for the first lb. and Gd. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/4, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, LTD 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importers. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
.Ltd.
AGENCIES:
RHODES MOTORS, DTD., Yorkshire, England.
(Motors and Dynamos.)
ELECTRICAL APPARATUS CO., DTD., London.
(Switch Gear.)
FOSTER ENGINEERING CO., Wimbledon, London.
(Transformers and Electrical Welding Plant.)
FAIRBANKS, MORSE & CO., New York.
(Alternators.)
VULCAN WIRE WORKS, London.
(Wires and Cables.)
Large Stocks Carried of Lamps, Instruments, Meters
and General Accessories.
Manufacturing Specialists in Elevators, Hoists, etc.
Installations Carried Out.
INQUIRIES RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Head Offices & Warehouse : 176 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
Gillette
1
Shave yourself—in comfort!
It is not sufficient for a razor to be “safe”—it must
be SHARP and sure!
The Gillette Blade is scientifically sharpened at the
factory—it needs no stropping, no honing, to make
it do its work. Once you use a Gillette it will be
your razor for life. You will realise the difference
between SHAVING and SCRAPING—you will
decide that the razor which gives you a clean, close,
bloodless shave in quick time is THE RIGHT
RAZOR FOR YOU!
STANDARD SET: Heavy triple silver-
plated Razor and one dozen
Gillette double-edged Blades in
neat leather case
28/6
Manufactured by
Gillette Safety Razor
Co.. Canada.
, ...
sd
K *OWW THC
''world over
Wholesale Agents,
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.


“ INECTO ” —Farmer’s, Sole Agents in N.S.W.
The World Famous, Permanent Hair Coloring.
OLD at forty! ” there is deep personal chagrin in this oft-repeated
discovery. The man of the world and the business man alike, recog-
nise the importance of keeping physically fit and youthful in mind and in
looks, in an age that sets such store by appearances. Grey hairs according
to progressive, modern ideas, are a sign of approaching age and, rightly or
wron r taken as evidence of decreased efficiency. Science however, long in
sear A some secret that might conserve youth in its outward form, at least,
has .scovered “ Inecto ” —the now world-famous hair coloring, a tinting
fluid chat reproduces the natural hues to perfection. It is permanently,
wash-ibie and perfectly non-injurious, whilst detection is absolutely impossible.
Farmer’s have made a thorough investigation of “ Inecto,” and the fact that
they have assumed the responsibility of Sole Agents in New South Wales
vouches for its reliability.
‘‘lnecto ” is procurable in the following shades:
No. 1 - Deep Black Nj. 2 - Darkest Brown No. 3 - Dark Brown No. 4 - Brown
No. 4i - Lt. Brown No. 4b Lt. Golden Brown No. 7 Reddish Blonde No. 8 - Blond £
Full Size “Inecto” Case, Price, 17/6
Full information concerning the application of " Inecto " is supplied with the ’* Inecto " Case contain *
ing four pairs of small bottles. This unique division reduces waste to a minimum, keeps
unused “ Inecto ” fresh indefinitely, in any climate.
Box 497, G.P.O.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
We Pay Carriage
within the State.
To Greet You
In Adelaide on July 26 Shave
open their Annual Display—Grand
Central Hotel. You are invited
to attend.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
f
The name
“Vanity
Fair” in Silk
Gloves is your
guide to Silk Glove
Worth at all times. The
guarantee with every pair pro-
vides for replacement free or
charge should finger tips wear
through before the rest of the
gloves have given reasonable
wear. .
Ask your draper for Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves. He should have
V.F.21
yj
ydfKitrJ'air
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Those who know say that the Prince has
secured a remarkable grip upon the char-
acteristics and peculiarities of leading Aus-
tralian politicians. Still, the report that
Low is to illustrate the Prince’s account of
the tour is greatly exaggerated.
Says a Melbourne matron upon whose
daughter Edward smiled: “Of course, we
realised from the first that she couldn’t
marry the Prince.’’ Another example of the
almost unnatural intuition of mothers!
Governor Allardyce, of Tassy, has just
come into the big fortune of his first wife.
She was one of the Greenes, of Greystanes,
Victoria.
Lady Barttelot, widow of Sir Walter,
G.-G. Denman’s military sec., who fell in
the early fighting, is now Mrs. Diggle, and not
even Barttelot-Diggle or Diggle-Barttelot.
She married Commander Diggle last month,
at Christ Church, Down-street, London, and
left immediately for Rome, where the Com-
mander is naval attache.
The Australian Women’s National League
is growing hysterical about the idea of abol-
ishing State Governors. At the last meet-
ing all the dear girls agreed to protest
vehemently against the move. The very
latest idea is that it isn’t their value
here that counts —it’s what they do when
they go “home.” Governors, after mixing
with the Very Naicest Australians, hurry
home, it seems, and assure the dear vicar
and all the rest of them that our table-
manners are excellent. It seems an expen-
sive way of getting a Naice reputation ; but
the A.W.N.L. dames think it worth the
money.
The Artie Staughtons’ eldest daughter,
Lorie, had to cancel a bunch of jazz en-
gagements and go into hospital for an
appendix operation. She is now at the
steamed-chicken stage of convalescence. In
a few weeks she will set off with mother for
a health trip to Java.
Melbourne people who knew Major Bar-
trop by name and by sight were mostly
under the impression that he must have
brought his military title from England or
India. All his soldiering was done in Vic-
toria, where he arrived with a letter of
introduction to Governor Latrobe in the
early ’fifties. He had long been clerk of
petty sessions at Bendigo before he joined
the local rifles, and he had come to be a
major ere lie was a Melbourne police magis-
trate. A harmlessly-vain old fellow, he did
his best to look the part of Majah, and
never attended a concert without leaving his
seat at the interval to call attention to his
natty old self. He lived to be 87.
The very day Major Bartrop died, his son-
in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Parker,
who are here on a visit from India, received
a cable telling them that their only child,
Reginald, a naval midshipman of 18, had
been killed in action in Asia. Mr. Parker,
who is in the Indian Civil Service, is a Tas-
manian, son of the late Captain Hastings
Parker, R,N., and a nephew of the Manifold
dame. He served in the Great War and
won a Military Cross.
Sickness is leaving gaps in the House of
Reps. Frank Anstey has not been on duty
since his collapse some weeks back, and
eye trouble has put Best and Jim Page on
to the retired list for a while. Minister
Massy Greene, who has just recovered from
an attack of ’flu, is again an absentee with
a heavy cold. Charles McDonald also con-
tinues to be missing from the Opposition
benches. The ex-Speaker is martyred by
neurasthenia.
Margaret Davidson, who died from the
effect of burns, sustained when her old-
fashioned home at Brighton caught fire a
few days ago, was a link with old politi-
cal history, as her father, Ambrose Kyte,
was a well-known member of the Assembly
in the interesting period (1861-7) when the
State was trying to find itself as a self-
governing colony. Sturdily independent, or
disliking human company, Mrs. Davidson,
who was T 6, lived alone —except for a couple
of pet dogs.
Little Molly Griffiths, a Tooraketty flap-
per, is making a stir in English golf. She
is “featured” in leading sporting journals.
One illustrated paper tries to claim her as
Irish, presumably because she had been hit-
ting hard on Dublin links. But she is Aus-
tralian through and through, and learnt her
early golf in Victoria. She has twin-sisters
—youngsters of 12 —and they are making a
young golf sensation, too.
Though the swankiest part of old South
Yarra is gradually turning into flats of the
umpteen-guineas-a-week variety, some of the
homes still cling. That which was Alfred
Deakin’s is yet untouched, and the Army-
tages still have a family stronghold. The
Fairbairns’ more recent palace, remains the
family nest; but their first big bricks-and
mortar effort is now a flattery. The Mac-
kinnons sit tight on a whole block. Waven-
don, the late Charles Emmerton's house, has
just gone under the hammer, and may re-
solve into tenements, too. Critchley Parker
bought the princely place, with its wonderful
old Dutch garden. It is at the back door of
his own home. Parker has sentimental
associations with all of that corner. As
early as ’52 his grandfather built White
Lodge, a house still standing on the hill,
but now bereft of most of its old garden.
Grandfather Parker’s original estate joined
that of fine old Fitzgerald. Both men
planted trees which still flourish in gardens
round about, and rival those of the Botanical
Gardens alongside. The fl. Becketts, back
from the war, with reconstruction ideas
uppermost, have pulled down an old family
cottage, and that means more fiats. The
home-loving Stewarts, next door, still cling
to their big white house and view with hor-
ror the bandbox invasion. Down toward the
river is an old house which Governor Ilotham
owned. It is still untouched, but the new
Riverside Drive is planned to run through its
garden.
Essendon built itself a new Town Ilall,
but had only just finished the place when
war broke out; so the first Mayoral Ball in
it happened only last week. There was a
great gathering of Worships and their wives
from other subbubs, and the Gaud Mayor
and Mrs. Stein were there as well to sample
the dancing-floor. Essendon Mayoress Kin-
near arrayed herself in orchid satin and
silver embroidery. From the hall you can
pass direct to a palm-garden. For the ball
this was covered with an awning and at-
tracted the crowd between dances. The
platform was for this occasion only a bit
of bush-scrub with a hut and a billy, real
water trickling over mossy stones and whole
wattle-trees blooming.
Though he had Joan Lazarus to help him,
Ozanne, ex-M.H.R., didn’t have the luck of
the N. S. Wales legislator in his libel case.
Not only did Ozanne not get a verdict, but
he was ordered to pay all the costs. It’s
worse than taking a ticket in Tatt.’s. Tatt.’s
at least never fines you heavily if you lose.
Hilary Rolls, who found so much favor
with the Prince as a dancing partner in
Perth, is the attractive chick of the lady
whom Melbourne used to know as Florrie
Green. And Florrie was the daughter of
that best-known of former Victorian danc-
ing-mistresses—Melba was one of her multi-
tudinous pupils.
Songstress Irma Caron is just flitting
away to Maoriland with her lofty husband,
M. P. Adams, who
is behind an Aus-
tralian movie enter-
prise that promises
both profit and
recreation. While
hubby is touring his
pictures, Maoriland
will have a chance
to realise the quality
of the voice
that has just been
leased to Robert
Courtneidge for a
star part in musical
comedy in London
next year. The dis-
covery of Irma’s
soprano was always
open to Australian
managements, bu t
apparently they
hadn’t the ears to appreciate an artist whose
engagement by the critical Courtneidge is
a satire on their importing policy. After
doing the Rieketty Isles Irma Caron will
travel leisurely to the Fog via America,
where she hopes to place an opera, “Mata-
Miti,” left by her late dad, Leon Caron,
and regarded by good judges as an extra-
ordinary achievement. The romance is told
in the island of Tahiti, whose magic is re-
vealed in the score. Not the least of its
admirers is the composer’s daughter, whose
unusual musical ability makes her a keen
critic. The brilliant Australian girl, who
is here presented by Langham, is a fine per-
former on the piano and violin, and can
warble without skidding in seven languages.
N. C. Lockyer, just retired after over 50
years in the Public Service, says that Bill
Lyne was the most casual Minister with
whom he came in contact. His rooted objec-
tion to mechanical labor was a heavy cross
which the permanent head of the Customs
had to bear. On sundry occasions Lyne
found Lockyer waiting like a lamb at Spen-
cer-street with a bundle of papers needing
signature. The Minister, with all his
thoughts on Sydney, would express his
wrath to the edification of the newspaper
boys, but the answer would be, “I’m coming
as far as Seymour, sir; you simply must
sign these papers.” There would be more
growling then, but the signatures were won.
When Lockyer started in the Ma State’s
Treasury, George Reid was a junior clerk
there.
Adelaide writes beneath a triumphal
arch:—
After a lowering morning the sun lent a hand,
and the Prince didn’t have to borrow an umbrella
for his arrival from the West. Just as the young
man was being met by the civic heads the vibration
set up by the Burra Ladies’ Band proved too much
for the platform, and at a most critical moment it
collapsed. The ladies had had a splendid view,
but the Prince got a better. There were no casual-
ties. One of the favored few who occupied a
comfortable seat in a bank window commented on
the very moderate cheering as the procession passed.
But many people who had waited on foot for hours
caught only a brief glimpse of his Ex.’s waving
hat-feathers. And only roosters could crow at
millinery.
Next day returned soldiers and army nurses,
crowding the Austral Gardens after the long dreari-
ness of the official levGe was over, cheered the Prince-
ling wildly for a very chirpy little speech. He had
previously invested Corporal A. P. Sullivan with the
V.C. at Government House. The Prince told this
Archangel hero that the King would have been
glad to have done the job. And the good Australian
replied that he’d been tempted to wait, but just
simply had to “hop off home” as soon as a boat
would take him.
Two of the most decorative figures at all official
ceremonies have been new Police Commissioner Leane,
in his blue and silver, and State Commandant Antill,
in his khaki and scarlet. The two big, hawk-faced
men have clung like brothers, making a contrasting
background to the pink-faced Prince and his rather
(is this blasphemy?) pasty-faced suite.
One of the jolliest spots during the hectic week
was tlie Cheer-Up Hut. Sailors crowded it from
early morning until the last trains, and all hands
appreciated the informal and friendly entertain-
ments arranged by the goodlOokers who did the waiting.
The V.A.’s and Port Adelaide and Alberton Cheer-
Ups attended to the sailors at the Outer Harbor
in a similar manner, and got a special vote of thanks
from the officers of the fleet.
The usual racegoers and a horde of casuals went
out to Tattersall’s special meeting, where an un-
usual thing happened—the Prince made money by
betting. He started one of the races, too, first
shaking hands (what do you think of this!) with
all the jockeys.
After the reception at Government House, to
which not only the Naicest but all official Adel-
aide was bidden, a few girls were asked to stay
on for a small dance. Adelaide Napier, Jean Mar-
ten and Joyce Morgan were the prize-winners. On
the following evening H.R.H. dropped in at the
Palais de Danse, looked rather bored with a viva-
cious damsel who was presented to him as the best
dancer in the room, and chose for the next one a
pretty, shy little person from a draper’s shop. Her
pitiful nervousness appealed to him—-he knows
about it—and they finished all smiles. The beam-
ing Weigall dame had arranged a small party for
him; but on his return from the Palais he danced
with her, did a stunt with the jazz band and went
to bed. There was a distinct shortage of men, and
as an entertainment it was hardly a success.
The usual crowd turned up at the inter-college
football match on Wednesday. Interest in the play
faded on the Prince’s arrival. Edward had been slipping
out most mornings for a game of racquets with
headmaster Bickersteth at St. Peter’s College, and
the blue and white lads took a proprietorial interest
in his doings. Before leaving he hung himself
across the netting barrier between the boys and the
mere public and informed them he’d secured a week’s
extra holiday for them next summer in remembrance
of his visit. The roar of applause nearly knocked
him backwards. The collegians were annoyed when
they observed that, as’ the Prince stood in his car
waving good-bye to the yelling mob, Admiral Halsey
clung firmly to the tail of his overcoat. One sym-
pathetic champion remarked, “I shouldn’t have
thought even a mother would have made a fool of
a chap like that!”
The Mayoral Mouldens gave the first of their enter-
tainments on Wednesday, when Edward P. attended
the official ball until 10.45, after which he fled for
home with a small party—presumably to dance
in peace. Mrs. Moulden wore mauve and
brought a small daughter in pink. The dour grey
hall with its awful little gold reliefs was trans-
formed into a charming bower with lights care-
fully managed to assist complexions. The small
Hackett —Mrs. Moulden’s chick—came in for much
Princely attention, aftor which seven damsels were
led in turn to act as partners. The following even-
ing about 700 of the younger generation had their
turn at a less formal but much more enjoyable dance.
It went with a swing from start to inisli. Joyce
Morgan again found favor, as did Josephine Ilard-
wieke from Perth, and Nancy Weigall from Mel-
bourne. Nellie Verco, in green, spent the evening
dancing with gold lace, the most favored partner
being Mountbatten. Pretty little Kathleen Butcher
from Perth also got many glad eyes from the suite.
On Friday the very small fry had their turn,
many hundreds of flappers and their male adjuncts
being entertained by the unwearied Mayor and his
dame; and on Saturday night the citizens were
bidden to a Mayoral concert. Little Deborah
Hackett is the proud possessor of a gold kewpie sent
by the Prince, who much admired the small person.
Adelaide’s most characteristic bit of Prince decora-
tion was an arch at the far-enj of Rundle-street,
between the two markets. The top part was the usual
thing, but the lofty square uprights were built up,
one of vegetables, the other of fruit, both the best
which the Torrens valley or the hills could produce.
The market-gardeners of Adelaide are a large and
well-to-do body, without a Chow among them.
South Aus. has never been able to see why growing
cabbages or apples should be a less honorable calling
than growing wheat or wool.
Syd. Kidman is back from his world tour. Of
course he took the first opportunity to make a speech
at the Abattoirs market. It is even better news
that he foretold cheaper meat before long.
The biggest squash the Prince has been in,
probably, in Australia, was at the door of our Grand
Central Hotel. Its big dining-room had been used
for a State banquet, and he was anxious to get away
to the Palais de Danse. The crowd that gathered
to see him come out was so dense that it jambed
the doorway. He got out, but in the few feet
between the door and the waiting car at the kerb,
Prince, Admiral, Governor and the rest were lost
in the crush. They never reached the car, and
were glad to get back into the hotel. While a way
of escape by the back lane was being arranged, the
Prince good-naturedly got out of a window facing
the crowd —there is no balcony—and did a balancing
act on the verandah roof to make a short speech.
Monteatli gives you
a picture of William
Hunter, who is pro-
bab 1 y Melbourne’s'
senior pianist. He
was playing in pub-
lic at St. George’s
Hall, now one of
Hoyt’s Bourke-street
screeneries, in 1866,
and he is still at-
tached to the key-
board for the best
part of his day. In
1876 he was chief
pianist with the Mel-
bourne Liedertafel,
and recalls the time
when Beethoven used
to be hammered on
six pianos at the
Town Hall, the soulful hall-keeper turning
down the gas for the first movement of the
Moonlight Sonata. In 1880 he went to Lon-
don and Paris to improve his music, and re-
turned with a new reputation as a pipe-
organ specialist, which got him the billet
of City Organist. About the same time he
began to officiate at the Hawthorn Presby-
terian Church, and the hymns still go aloft
wrapped in his wonderful music. Hunter
educated his ear for the work of organist
by constant attendance at Westminster
Abbey and St. Paul’s, London,' and the Made-
leine and Notre Dame, Paris. Incidentally,
as spectator or member of the orchestra,
he has seen, he believes, every opera staged
in Melbourne for over half a century.
The Glaci holds its own in spite of the
new amusement palaces that have arisen.
It has had to extend its dancing floor; and
now a new scheme of decoration is going in.
It consists of a ceiling of lattice with blos-
somy vines which will hide the high roof
and give the cosy effect that jazzers yearn
for. Sassiety finds such places very handy.
Here, for instance, there are boxes to be
reserved for feeding and dance-intervals, and
that ends the home trouble with mutinous
Mary Ann. Cards or ’phone messages fly
round for a revel at the old rink, and the
happy hostess has nothing more to do than
be there and hand over a cheque.
Tinkler, one of the best-known of the
Argus’s young men about town, and before
his Melbourne days a rising hope of Ben-
digo, is going across to Sydney and the
Sun. The Argus has been rather like a
training-school for the Sun these last few
years.
The popular pastime of pillaging table-
ware reminds one of the little joke of land-
lord Kerr, of the Queen’s Arms. Though
he has had his roof sold over his head and
will probably have to find another address.
his glass goods will hardly leave him.'
Blown into each of them is the legend
“Stolen from Kerr’s Hotel.”
Doris Hadden, a clever youngster -who
has just joined the staff of the Albert-
street Conservatorium, gave a piano recital
last week in the Athenaeum Hall. She
offered a programme delicately balanced be-
tween Chopin, Debussy and Liszt. Howett-
Worster, a baritone just coming into prom-
inence, helped with songs. The house was
crowded and enthusiastic. Fritz Hart was
well in the foreground, electrified with inter-
est in both pianist and singer. Young Mrs.
Howett-Worster listened with blushes to the
chorus of praise. Her husband had to repeat
an encore.
The Arthur Robinsons have been staying
with ex-Governor Stanley and his wife, at
Alderley Park, Cheshire. Mrs. Robinson
and her daughter were presented at the first
Drawing Room held at Buckingham Palace
since the war. The Countess Curzon of
Kedleston was sponsor. Mrs. Robinson wore
a wonderful dress of grey French brocade,
and her daughter blushed through the
ceremony in pale pink.


Hellesens Dry Cells
Unaffected by Any Weather.
|(4p|(CfVtO a
»# - v#rw/lGSfc.
ar
V
•7 ypfc ii
“BUTLEft
—“ • >•{>«
iSBBV
iW «.b»**s
For
Motor Ignition,
Telephony,
Telegraphy,
Electric Bells,
Induction Coils,
Emergency Use,
etc.
In these famous Danish
cells the manufacturers
have finally overcome the
tendency of dry cells to
deteriorate in the Australian
climate.
Hellesens Dry Cells can be
kept in stock without loss,
even under the most unfav-
orable climatic conditions.
Their high voltage and low
internal resistance, their
great steadiness and long
life in actual use have cre-
ated unique records.
Only the purest and best
raw materials are used in
their manufacture.
Others may be cheaper to
buy, but Hellesens Dry Cells
are cheaper to use—because
they are more reliable and
more lasting.
Full particulars and prices
on application.
WGWATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence Si Sydney'
sdf
IS
w
J.Y.29'
©
You Can Save all These
Save money, work and worn)
and Dec serve an enticing, satis-
fying and wholesome meal that
everyone will really enjoy with
“REX”
CAMP PIE
-the housewife's biggest help
in solving two big problems—
Ki.chen work, and H.C.L.
It is all ready to serve when
you buy it. A dainty, appetis-
ing meat delicacy, perfect y
cooked—invitingly prepared.
Try it to-day for all meals at
home, picnics, week-end camps,
and Sandwiches.
Sold bp all Stores
Everpwhere
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LIMITED
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
j 1216
jllV
ijfjjgQi-LtiiwmiiiHllf/iiHl'Trn
OP
Mam
BAC
ON.VEAL
E.
TONG
JfsYeß
British Bu\t^
m
ms-
‘And don’t forget, to fit the
Self-Levelling Crown Plate.”
THAT is the sentence which stands out boldly in dozens
of our letters every day. Practically every handpiece
that has been sent in for repairs lately has been
brought up to date by fitting this Lister Patent. The beauty
of it is that it can be fitted to other handpieces besides the
Lister, and so help to bring them a little nearer the Lister level.
This latest Lister feature is in keeping with the Lister policy
of designing all improvements to help the flock-owner as well
as the shearer and export. The old style crown plate causes
a lot of trouble through grit and cuttings being able to get
under it and throw it off the level. It is generally considered
one of the most difficult parts of the handpiece to adjust
correctly, necessitating special tools such as reamer, ring tool
and adjuster.
The Lister Taper Crown Plate simply falls into a firm, tapered
seat in the head of the tension nut. Once there it automati-
cally levels itself, and no grit or cuttings can enter to throw
it off the level. Further, as it is made glass-hard, it easily
outlasts ten old-style crown plates.
The Lister Taper Crown Plate is easy to remove, saves ninety
per cent, of fitting time, and in every way reduces the cost of
shearing-machine upkeep.
READ WHAT ONE USER SAYS.
Mr. N. E. SMITH, a well-known expert, says:—
“Re your enquiries about the Tapered Crown Plates. I used
two Lister Tension Nuts fitted with these crown plates for six seasons
in succession at the Coon amble Wool Scour.
“During that time these nuts shore over thirty thousand sheep
apiece. The tapered crown plates were taken out and reground
each season. The nuts have been expanded and re-threaded time
and again, until they were worn right out. I found that no matter
how they were replaced they automatically levelled themselves in a
few minutes’ shearing—and stayed level.
“I am hoping that these crown plates are now to be adopted as
standard, as they make things so very much easier in the shed, both
for the expert and the shearers.”
Let us bring your handpieces up to date by fitting this
improvement.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Townsville.
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD., West Footscray, Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO., LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MALLOCH BROS., 50-54 William Street, Perth.


Charles
Vintage 1911
(MM
HE PLUS ULTRA
K»' , r
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
North Pole Pram Tyring
The patented Pin fastening makes North Pole
easy to fit, and absolutely prevents the Tvrc
rolling off.
Cycle Agents, Perambulator Dealers and
Storekeepers are requested to write us for
quotations.
If you cannot obtain supplies in your town
we would be pleased to send you the name of
your nearest Stockist.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett & Barkel! Limited,
Meagher Street, SYDNEY,
$
When the period known as “the twilight of
Life” arrives, extreme care must be ob-
served to keep Colds, Influenza, and their
attendant i»ls at a distance.
IRISH MOSS
ss
\OO
IS BEST FOE COUGHS & COLDS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Dayid Jones
SYDNEY
France got into her gladdest rags last
week and called on her Consul-General and
her Consul for mutual congratulations on
the fall of the Bastille; and in spite of the
Customs duties and the pirate rate of ex-
change Campana and his colleague presented
a glittering shop-window to the other con-
suls. Their broadcloth and collars of gold
might have made Malachi’s Knights topple
off their Red Branch from sheer envy. The
two scintillated with decorations, and, the
wool sales forgotten on this day of great-
ness, almost embraced the embassies of Bel-
gium and Poland, Japan, Chili, Peru, Spain,
the Netherlands, Finland and Denmark. But
ifc was for the new Arab dynasty to carry
off from the reception the fullest measure
of honors. It was a thrilling moment when
Mockbell, as representative of the new Arab
hree State, entered the crowded room.
Campana poured compliments upon his head
-—compliments compounded of balm of
Gilead and attar of roses.. The little coffee-
man took it all modestly, and though cham-
pagne enough to float the Bastille or Fort
Denison flowed around him, true son of
the Koran, he lifted not the glass to his
hps, but honored the toasts by touching the
bubbling glass with his hand. At the mid-
day dinner at Paris House Campana made
a rattling speech, in which one glimpsed
something of the eternal youth and charm
that Miss Republic has for her lovers.
Solicitor-General Sproule paid homage to
h ranee for the fine manners of her neonle
and handed J. D. Fitzgerald a rose from
the bouquet by remarking that he had cour-
tesy enough to fit out a Frenchman. Yet
i; D Vn grC T le( VV true British-lion fashion
at the absent Hun. Holman, K.C., paid
rather hurried respects to his old love, La
Belle France; then hurried away to rake
in more guineas.
In the evening France and her best young
man had their fling at the Oxford Hall.
I.hei6 was Jazz and a concert programme
arranged by Yerbrugghen, in which the
heavyweight parts were strangely enough
borne by Belgian and Australian artists.
rj J e hit of the dance in aid of St. Vin-
cents Building Fund was Attorney-General
Mcliernan, McTiernan is an unassuming
young man of 28, an old Marist boy, un-
engaged, with the nicest manners in the
world, and two ideas about dancing—one
which leads him to get in the way of his
s °ther to get tangled up
with the couple ahead or just behind. And
yet there was as keen a rivalry to attract
his eye as a few weeks ago there was to
catch that of the fickle Prince. About 399
other jazzers took the floor in Sargents’ ball-
room and secretaries Nellie King (maize
georgette) and Mrs. Morgan O’Neill (pink
and gold brocade and georgette) felt a vir-
tuous glow when they got their, fingers to
work and reckoned it out at 7s. 6d. a head
Doctors young and old were there, and
nurses m tulle and taffeta, looking as though
they wouldn t know a temperature if thev
saw one. Olive Casey, in lavender taffeta
looked like Kitty Bellairs, with her fas-
cinatmg white hair and her pretty pink-
and-white coloring; and Mrs. Trefle trailed
an aigrette, a fish tail and a brogue.
Josephine Marks, who wore some beautiful
lace, and Dr. Calahan were treasurers of
the successful flutter.
Westralia is rather putting on airs he-
* °wns the first real Governor’s
tu U AT ter t( L dance w ith the Prince. Well
the Munro Fergusons have no chick or child
and Daphne and Diana could not be ex
peeted to lead off the State Ball in N. S
Wales. However, it isn’t all beer and
is J?Tet fh DCing ith HR H - His method
feer th ®, “ uslc so its own gait and his
Pelnni r . Thats his amiability.
Barber s two daughters also caught
the Princely eye, but Kath Butcher and
Hilary Rolls (whose mother runs Perth’s
most select dancing-school) were evidently
considered the pick of the basket, for afte?
Halsey had shooed the children home at
® dw ard and Mountbatten re-
turned and danced the night through alter-
nately with Kath and Hilary.
P/? e , of ,? ur - ve . r y swankiest families is not
publicly displaying the souvenir the taking
youth bestowed on it after the party in his
honor. In the Royal passage down the
room at the end of the evening, H.R.H. en-
countered a table on which were some unused
programmes. Picking up one the Prince
pencilled something across the back; then
with the famed smile he presented it to his
hostess. “A little souvenir,” he murmured.
Across the programme was scrawled
“Edward P.” And not even in indelible!
Duntruin, the temporary home of the
McCormack family, is pleasantly placed in
a wide garden—it has the tennis and garage
that John’s soul demands, but lacks the
steam-heated rooms that his small wife and
the singing throat have been accustomed to.
Mrs. McCormack ignores the fact, but the
throat objected, and for the first day or two
became quite raspy. Mrs. John has a viva-
cious Irish face, a pretty taste in clothes,
and some wonderful pearls. The string for
her throat is of large, well-matched purity,
but as every family has its black sheep, so
has this string its black pearl—and that
right in the middle. She has a ring to
match, and a bracelet with two gorgeous
black pearl drops. And it’s not every woman
whose jewels are bought with gold minted
from her goodman’s voice. Daughter Gwen
is a shy little girl who loves her “dools.”
»on Cyril loves the chauffeur. Adopted baby
Ivevm, a real beauty-show kiddie, round and
dimpled, has been joying the hearts of the
nurses at Lewisham, for the little chap had
*0 b ® ther « to have a poisoned nose
attended to.
. Incidentally, John hates dancing. “Isn’t
it the queer arrangement,” says he, “to see
a. large, plump man dropping the sweat of
his brow upon the unprotected back of a
girl he has never met before!”
Muriel Window drops Tiie Bulletin a
wedding-card announcing that the perfectly-
shaped shoulder-blades are now the sole pos-
session of Arthur S. Hanford, junior, that
the weddmg took place on May 5, 1920, and
that from now on her home-address is 2420
Jackson-street, Sioux City, lowa.
Here’s Doris Duane, whose good looks and
coat have made pop-eyes in the Australia
Winter Garden and other high places for the
past few weeks. Doris is shortly to appear
as Regina in Cosmo Hamilton’s “Scandal,”
which she played for nearly two years in
America. In addition
to her success on
the stage she has a
sparkling musical
record, having at
16 or so played the
Grieg Concerto in A
minor with the
Queen’s Hall
Orchestra under Sir
Henry Wood, charm-
ing the old boy so
much that he called
upon her to play at
these concerts twice
in the following
three months. She
had a necklace of
musical honors when
war broke out, but
discarded the lot to
make time-fuses in Woolwich arsenal for
two years; a third year she served in France.
Then Doris joined the chorus of “Very Good
Eddie,” afterwards understudied the leading
lady and, through the latter’s misfortune,
became the head-liner. From that onwards
she has played leading roles in musical-
comedy and drama: it was she who took up
Dot Brunton’s part in “Shanghai” when
Dot had to retire with ’flu. Doris is really
Mrs. Harry Cohen, and Harry is the son
of Mark, one of the ablest penmen Maori-
land has had the luck to retain. For 55
years he edited the Evening Star, Dun-
edin’s daily with the Liberal views and the
unsectarian leaders. Harry is in the theatre-
managing line.
Mrs. Searl, Dictator of Fashion at Far-
mer’s, is back in Sydney after two years in
1 ans and London, with an occasional weelc-
end in N ew York. The lady descended on
a bleak Sydney in exquisite black-velvet
tailorings, rich brown furs and a close-
fitting velvet and fur hat. Skirts, she
assures us, are to be short and still shorter;
so la belle Parisienne decides, and so the
world follows. New York already discards
the long hobble it tolerated for a space—
and does it gladly, for nowhere in the world
have the women such ankles and feet as in
America. (The American woman is per-
haps the only one in the world who can
dance in high boots and still present an en-
trancing foot to the onlooker.) Short skirts
and silken hose —not a well-dressed woman
m Pans is brave enough to wear cotton!
Colorings are almost yiolent, scarlet leading
b y \ furlong. Hyde Park, at the first
church-parade of the season, was positively
torrid from the numbers of tailored frocks,
costumes and trig little hats of the glowing
tone- Rafia in riotous shades is a craze
which leaped into sudden prominence for
millinery and dress-embroidery. The Man-
darin coat issues forth in glory once more,
and accordeon-pleating is the rage for skirts,
capes and cloaks. Large waistbows coquette
with evening frocks, whose trains spout from
any old place, cascading from a hunched-up
mass or tulle on the hips, or from one
shoulder; or a tiny rivulet of train may
sprinkle out from one of the aforesaid waist-
bows. The camisole is outski; princess pet-
ti®B take their place. Sunshades may look
like an air-cushion or a roll of music, so
freakish m design are they. The handles
are large, in some cases representing little
dogs, with heads—almost life-size— covered
with real dogskin. The home-made, badly-
knitted sweater and golfer have done their
dash. The stretchy, badly-hanging affair
has been replaced by whole-knitted suits,
tne coats long and distinctly outlining
the waist, the whole as carefully tailored
tor golfing as the wearer’s afternoon
suit. _ In France the heelless shoe or half-
11^1,the oniy footwear. Evening shoes
are built on the same design, but the straps,
instead of clamping the ankle, are across
f, *l, front of the shoe to accommodate the
buckles. Necklets are still of the knee-
reaching variety, with scarabs as large as a
tile from the hearth as ballast.
The Millions Club nearly set another
world-war going the other day by mixing
its guests. To begin with, there was Mrs
uran, who descended on us some weeks
ago with an immigration scheme as like any
other immigration plan as one pea is like its
neighbor. Mrs. Gran is petulant because
she teels Australia hasn’t realised her im-
portance. Unlike the native princess, she
has much honor in her own country, accord-
ing to the little printed pamphlets she dis-
tributes, bearing the titles of four books
and one play she has published. Well,
Mrs. Gran, who is a large lady with a
chin, arose upon her very English feet and
ripped long strips of skin off Australia in
general and the Sydney newspapers in par-
ticular. They had misrepresented her and
misreported her. Then she gave a smashing
left-hander to the American press, dismiss-
ing it with a British sniff and “Vulgar!”
I resident Arthur Rickard visibly cowered in
his chair and flung a wide, soft smile to
ins left-hand neighbor, Judge Borst, from
Amsterdam, U.S.A. After Mrs. Cran had
finished her flaying, the Judge arose impres-
sively, and made straight for Mrs. Cran’s
throat. “Vulgar we may be, but practical
we are, ’ said he. “And I hope the good
lady on my right is a practical person, and
tor the sake of the increased population she
urges, I hope she is Mrs. and not Miss
(.ran. It was the only spark the old boy
struck. He then told us how to run Aus-
tralia and be sure to keep out color—and
a few doors from him sat the inoffensive
little Japanese Consul! A pretty little
stew to set a-boiling all right! In the
hurly-burly of words, of course, a mere Aus-
tralian was overlooked, and poet C. J. Dennis
and his velvet-eyed lady passed out unsung
and untoasted.
Can it be that the Royal Youth has
dropped 75 per cent, in popularity since
he left Sydney? When he was on the
spot a small group of intensively-cultivated
Society leaders who have never even heard
the word “trade"’ talked of dropping a hun-
dred each into the hat to give the Prince
on his return a regular peach of a night.
But now the Mrs. John Gilpins have decided
to lengthen the list of hostesses, and thereby
lower the cost to £25 a head.
The Wentworth ballroom was all purple
and gold, the Wesley colors, the other night,
when the students chose the big ballroom
for the College dance. On. the dais the
music-conjurers, by changing the time of
the Peer Gynt suite, turned it into the irre-
sistible Peter Gink jazz; and even a Rach-
maninoff prelude became a tickletoe. Over
them were the college shield and “Wesley”
emblazoned in gold. Altogether it was a
fearfully academic atmosphere, bristling
with Masters of Arts and Science. The
Reverend and Mrs. Scott Fletcher, she in
black velvet, held out the hand of greeting.
Professor and Mrs. Wilson, who are bound
for Cambridge, looked in. Miss Williams,
of the Women’s College, displayed a silk-
shod ankle, not in the least blue; and every
educational bigwig and his son or daughter
helped to keep the ball rolling.
Toques off to the Housewives’ Association
and Alderman Whatmore! North Sydney is
to have its public markets at Mount-street.
Besides which there is to be a chain of
stalls linking Crow’s Nest to Milson’s Point,
where Queen Colly and her less exalted sis-
ter veggies will blush in the public gaze.
Only those of speckless reputation may find
a place, and the over-ripe banana and the
wormy apple will be things of the past.
Who remembers Agnese Gressier, the
small girl with the clever French-Austra-
lian brain and the beautiful singing notes
who went off to London with a big heart
and little else to keep her company? Well,
Mrs. Trefle, who was one of the committee
interested in the girl’s career, was issuing
forth the other afternoon when a cable was
thrust into her hands: “Arrange finance
Agnese Gressier; brilliant future assured.
Melba.” Dame Nellie had at any rate
paid for the cable.
The Bulletin man who got the news
rubbed his eyes with a frozen hand, and
then, as he explains, asked himself, “Well,
why not?” It was a letter signed “Ettie
A. Rout” —about the usual thing—but it
had a postscript: “I have just got married ;
but that won’t stop me from continuing my
work.—-Ettie A. Hornibrook. 1 ’ Not a word
about her frock; nor the bridesmaids (if
any) ; Aor the ’groom. Still, a hundred
thousand Diggers who know what this
Maordand woman did for them will sav
that if he is the best he’s none too good
for his wife,
The breezy personality of Will Ashton is
reflected in his pictures, Which are mostly
Waves and sunlight. He looks at Nature
With a clear morning eye, and insists that
the beautiful lady needs neither adornment
nor rearrangement. That is a very healthv
viewpoint, and just
what you would
expect of a bronzed,
outdoor man who, as
one art-critic re-
marks, “looks like n
British naval officer
in mufti.” Born at
York, England, in
1881, he came with
his parents to Aus-
tralia three years
later. His artistic
father, James Ash-
ton, set up his easel
in Adelaide, and in
1900 young Will,
having received a
good grounding in
his father’s classes,
set out for England,
where he studied for two years at St. Ives,
Cornwall, under Julius Olsson, the famous
marine painter, and A. M. Talmage. Then
he moved on to the Academie Julien in
Paris. Australia called the lover of sun-
light and open spaces back three times in
lo years. But the siren Sydney captured
him for keeps within the last year or so.
’Cellist Bryce Carter is on his way to
Java to play through a long engagement.
After a year or more in orchestra wells
watching the conductor’s beat and nursing
operatic singers through their solos, he
looks forward to arranging his own pro-
grammes and playing the stuff that is meat
and _ liquid refreshment to a finished
musician. It is a peculiarity of theatre
work that the instrumentalist in the pit
often can’t hear a single note of the song
that streams overhead. When, in addition,
he can’t see the singer, he has only the
conductor’s .hand to rely on. And with
young principals on the job there are
occasional emergency calls to drop a bar or
a whole hotel, or do a bit of lightning
transposing. Concert work is a dream of
peace after a season of such experiences.
c , parties on tlie Australia will hence-
forth have a hostess. Dumaresq’s wife
arrived by the Bremer last week. The same
boat carried Commodore Edwards, who is
to have charge of Garden Island, and
another bit of Navy Blue aboard was Cap-
tain Miller, R.N., who is to be in charge of
one of the light cruisers of the Port Jack-
son Fleet.
Over a Brisbane tea-table:—
Popular Alice Morgan, daughter of late Premier
Arthur, has been booked by Major Reg Robinson,
once of the 26th Battalion.
Amy Evans and Frazer Gange have been singing
to a packed Exhibition Hall.
Brisbane has gone flying-mad. Lieut. Roberts,
leut. Bird and Captain King each discover a choir
of would-be angels clustered round their aerodromes
every morning.
Cassie Cameron has just accepted the usual
diamond token from Harry Shepherd.
Miss Allen (Sydney) and Joan Taylor, of Bellevue
station, will be the guests of the Bell girls at
Coochin while the Prince is there.
Dinner parties, jazz teas and balls are billed for
every night and day of the Prince’s visit. Fifty
Brisbane girls are giving a dance on July 28, and
Royalty is to look in after dinner at Parliament
House. Mrs. William Collins’s roof at Nindooimbah
will cover the Princeling’s head for one night only.
A dinner and dance at Nindooimbah, and a dinner
at the Robert Collinses’ homestead, Tamrookum, are
the main items of the Beaudesert programme.
The decorations for the Shakspeare Ball are to be
elaborate. English hedges, a replica of the Eliza-
bethan maze at Hampden Court, and rose-pink lights
have been ordered. Young Edward knows English
hedges by heart, and will probably be bored stiff
again. Still, the snobs must have their day.
. Adelina Levey, who did much fox* our boys
in England, is now receiving the glad eye
from the Mothers, Wives and Widows’ Asso-
ciation. She has been made their presi-
dent, and they intend that her entertain-
ment at the King’s Hall on the 31st shall
be the success the big woman deserves.
Adelina is a raconteur, and her poems and
sketches are the work of a soldier-brother.
A little Australian pupil will recite a cycle
of child-poems by the same writer. The
whole of the proceeds are to go to the Alex-
andra Hospital for Children, Camperdown,
to endow a cot for a soldier’s orphan.
The Arthur Allens lent their ballroom at
Menoola on Friday last for a youngsters!
dance in aid of St. Luke’s Hospital. Two
hundred tickets were sold, and the ballroom
was gay with pretty and dainty girl-frocks.
Mrs. Wade and Mrs. Bullmore were the
secretaries.


Hardy Brothers Ltd
JEWELLERS*
Christening Gifts
in Solid Silver.
Hardy Bros, have a very complete range of Silver
Christening Gifts, those illustrated being but
representative of a most comprehensive selection,
all of highest quality and excellent value.
Silver Mug, holds J-pint,
£4 4 0
" ,V", OA»av J>w<sa Ur.»-
B mmmm*****
Silver Spoon and Pusher,
£2 2 0
Silver Spoon and Serviette Ring,
£3 10 0
Silver Egg Cup and Spoon,
£3 15 0
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY*
JI6-JJB Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BDTTERLAC
is a SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of all Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
BUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM,
INSOMNIA, KIDNEY and LIVER
HEADACHES, DERANGEMENTS
and All Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults and Children.
Btrtterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4(6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, LTD., Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO.,
Adelaide.
Tasmania: L. FAIRTHQRNE & SON, Launceston.
&e
i—'
y
PERPETUATE BY PICTURES
Not since the Ancients graved on stone, have pic-
tures been so important as they are today. It is
not enough that we read of great events but we
must see them pictured out.
So with the unusual and interesting things in your
own life—Preserve them with an
d
ANSCOV-P/NO:2
(The Modern Pocket Diary)
Easy to operate; quick in action; simple
in all its adjustments. So small it fits in
your pocket. Takes pictures 2Va, x 3*4 in.
Come in and see it.
PRICES
No. 2, Modico Anastigmat Lens, F/7.5 . . £8 0 0
„ Ansco Anastigmat Lens, F/6.3 . . £9 15 0
We also carry a full stock of Kodaks at standard prices, as
well as many other leading cameras which are not obtainable
elsewhere.
lIS
The House for GOOD Cameras
386 George Street, Sydney.
Also at
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
144 Queen Street, Auckland: 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale..
m m
mm
m
:r . •
1
888
■
fc*
A Clean SPARK PLUG
and a Clean Engine.
[There you have two valuable features of Texaco Motor OM.
No matte,r how long or how hard the run, you can take out
the plugs and remove the cylinder heads to find everything
“as clean as a whistle.”
There is no hard, flinty carbon trouble, and never a fouled!
engine, where Texaco Motor Oil is used. The burned product
from Texaco is soft and fluffy like soot. It blows away in the
exhaust, thus giving perfect cleanliness and enabling the plug
to deliver a fat spark every time.
That regular spark, together with perfect compression, which
Texaco Motor Oil assures, means full power all the time,
smoother running, and longer life from your engine.
Get a tin of Texaco Motor Oil from your garage and see the
difference. Write for Lubrication Chart—Post Free from
The Texas Company (Australasia), Ltch
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Newcastle, Perth, Hobart, Launceston.
South Aust. Agents: Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
TEX-ACO
TEXACO
MOTOR OILS
TEX'ACO
K3lB


BOND’S TRIPLE WEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
AN IDEAE HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance. v
FEflciflG Wire
w mi
w,
r.
a
m
r&-
This Tag Protects
Property and Pocket.
It guarantees Quality—Greater
Breaking Strain,, Bower Cost
—in fencing wire.
Every coil tested before leav-
ing the mill.
Write for Free Booklet Nl9.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. LTD.,
310 Flinders St., Melbourne, Vic.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
n
m i
s
y
riRTISN
AD
Perfection
RUBBER
Hotel c/e Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3Vz guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
§
• NewBiscuitSi
Special
Announcement.
We beg to announce to the public that we
have started the manufacture of Biscuits
-—at Camperdown.
The new Company now seeks the patronage
of those who desire the finest possible
productions—made in a clean, sunlit
factory under ideal conditions.
We propose to introduce better biscuits
than have hitherto been obtainable in
Australia.
One trial will convince you that Joyce’s
New Biscuits are worthy of your support.
Your Grocer Keeps Them.
JOYCE & CO., LTD.,
CAMPERDOWN.
the palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
fuh
Cannot
Cleans
R-egula
British
Ask for ONOro
ALL HOTELS AND
LICENSED GROCERS
WHISKY
MELLOWED with age
and primed with all the zest-
giving qualities that only expert
distillation can pro-
duce.
&
o-v-
McGill Atttopower
Attachment
for fitting to a Ford Car to
make it run any belt-driven
farm machine that a 12-h.p.
gas-engine will drive. It will
do it at less expense, and
positively cannot harm the car
in any way. Will operate
Shearing Machines, Chaff Cut-
ter, Corn Sheller, Feed Grinder,
Cream Separator, Milking
Machine, Pumps, Wood Saw,
Concrete Mixer, Electric Light
Plant.
When once fitted can be de-
tached in five minutes.
Canadian manufacture.
Price, complete with Automatic Governor,
Friction Clutch and Auxiliary Fan. . . .
£35
Country Agents wanted.
Sole Agent, also for FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCKS made in 1 ton,
li, 2, 31 and 5-ton sizes,
H. W. CROUCH, 26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
COMMUNITY PLATE
a o
m
-3tOSt!o-
Discriminating Hostesses
prefer COMMUNITY
CUTLERY for the grace
and splendour that it lends
to the table.
Its period Designs—Adam,
Sheraton, Hepplewhite and Pat-
rician, seem to breathe of the
romantic and historic past, and
give to COMMUNITY PLATE
that subtle charm that casts its
spell upon all lovers of the
beautiful and finds its way into
palaces.
Community Plate carries with
it the guarantee of 50 years
service and its designs are strictly
its own and are not duplicated in
any other quality. It not only
carries a very thick plate of
silver, but an additional overlay
of pure silver has been added at
the base of the bowl, more than
doubling the durability.
A few of " the distinguished
patrons of “Community" are —
The Baroness de Meyer, New
York; Lady Randolph Churchill,
London ; Mrs. O- H. P. Belmont;
Mrs. Oliver Harriman, N. Y.;
Duchess of Rutland, London:
Mrs. Honore Palmer. Chicago;
Duchess of Marlborough ana
Countess Cadogan, London; Mrs.
Reginald C. Vanderbilt, N.Y.
Have Community Cutlery in
your home.
On sale at the leading shops.
ONEIDA COMMUNITY LIMITED
The Banking House, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney
Established 1848, Incorporated 1881 at Oneida, New York, U.S.A.
Also makers of Oneida Community RELIANCE PLATE (Guaranteed 25 years)
Oneida Community PAR PLATE (Guaranteed 10 years)
wmmm
1
V/M
VM.
W/M
Patrician Design
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (.except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Hay: Discussion too technical; send direct
to the man who asked for the information. That’s
why his address was given... .H.P. (Buchan): Sorry,
but can’t reply by letter.... Blanky N.: Verse sub-
mitted no good. Minimum, 4d. a line... .W.D.: For
Heaven’s sake give us a bit of room between the
lines to push a pen in.... A.E.K.: It seems promis-
ing.... Ae. H.: “Cooks” a shade too rough....
J.M.J.K.: Send it to the paper that published the
offending yarn.... Zeb. J.: Forwarded in your name
to the Sydney Museum... .C.E.S.: Careless yarn
with plenty of horror and no point... .Luminous:
It isn’t. It isn’t even bright Darby: “Hopes”
and “Innocent” both fail. You’ll have to take more
trouble over both the matter and the manner....
Martha F.: Sorry, no use... .Aide-de-camp: Rubbish.
... .Damlia: Doesn’t move us much... .Marie A.: Not
enough there; and what there is could be better
handled.... Dick C.: Not the sort of thing we’re
hungry for N.S. (Tarcoola): We couldn’t take
that if we wanted to; and we don’t want t 0....
A.E.C.8.: Not good enough Homo: A bit loud
and raw... .Sheoak : Burn it... .Northern Cyclone:
See if you can put it in a fourth of the space
Malcolm M.: Not enough in it S.U. (Delungra) :
Can’t find any joy there.... Francis D.: There is
Promise in it Chick S.: Verse not up Nora
F.: Doesn’t strike us Suburban Warbler: Can’t
find any mirth or promise of it there W.R.E.:
That’s the most unkind thing done on the subject
yet....M.8. (Neutral Bay): A small point in tor-
tured verse.... G. 8.: “Green Stuff” won’t d 0....
1.R.M.: “Frosty Nights” has good stuff in it, but
it doesn’t make a good whole W.E.8.: Very
rugged... .C.G.C.: “Extremes” won’t pass....
R.X.J.: One might scrape through 1.L.1.: "Tin
Lode not for u5....J. McK.: “An Ideal” moves too
heavily... .R.W.H.: Suitable for the columns of “Thu
Curate s Guide” or “The Young Ladies’ Evangelical
Review”.... K.K.: “Wail” doesn’t thrill u 5....
7734: Thin, and without much interest Marie T.:
The “sonnet” gets nowhere near Edith S.: Verses
that begin “Oh, canst thou hear” are safely booked
for the basket... .C.T.F.: “Night in Summer” says
what it has got to say fairly well, but it is exactly
what has been said a thousand times E.M.P.:
Nothing there Celo: There’s an idea in the verse.'
But you will have to handle it a lot better Marie
A.: “Poppies” follows a well-trodden track to no-
where ; and the manner is bad Senex: Verse won’t
d 0... .G.C.W.: Very p00r... .Doris H.: “Well-
Being” gets very near; “Remembrance” doesn’t
Ptah-Hotep: Boil it down. This paper has to cover
a continent W. J.C.: “Unwritten Law” has a
chance; “Inconstancy” is too vague and unreal;
“Dorothy” is not up; and “Mater” is a poor hand-
ling of a theme that has been worked to death....
E.8.H.: Poor yarn poorly told J.A. (Welling-
ton): No use Sir Spen: Your drunk is a very
ordinary variety M.A.Y.: No good. The first
lesson you have to learn is that American slang is
not spoken here except by visitors, some picture-
show people who misjudge public taste, and a few
painfully imitative and misguided Australians from
waterside slums Reginald S.: Not our style
Woodicus: Yarn doesn’t convince. Doctors couldn’t
play tricks of that sort.... Peter the Second: Yarn
not improved R.W.M.: “Pulling an Oar”' not for
us Chick S.: Not nearly S.P.Q.: Childish yarn
absurdly written Clive H.: There’s promise.
Grow up and try again Huerakicks: -Let it go,
Iluerakicks:—■
Mock Turtle: It’s rather a feat to write twelve
lines that say so little Bagman: Not quite....
lestyn Mai: What sort of an ear have you got to
rhyme “four” with “jaw”? A.P.L.: “Atir”
doesn’t strike us... .E.S.T.: Poor work... .F.J.C.:
Doesn’t say enough.... Harry W.: Too rough
R.D.F.: “Morning Song” is pleasing; a touch and
it would have been something mbre....F.R. (Chats-
wood): Unpleasant statement in poor verse
M.S.F.: They don’t reach standard Parthenia:
Nothing in “Solitude” William O’C.: The verse
doesn’t carry it E.D.V.C.: Rugged and ragged.
. ...A.M.8.: Says some old things which are not
very true in a clumsy way... .Iturrawong: Doesn’t
do much more than state that there are bullock'
teams Hendy: Wretched Jack T.: Keeps the
old line of imitative commonplace... .Corkscrew:
The lines are too rough... .J.W.H.: No use....
C.S.S.: Verse doesn’t carry it... .G.H. (Mildura) :
Must go back N.H.S.: Nothing in it E.H.M.:
“Newnes” is too stiff and pedantic.... Folonius:
The verse has the movement of a drunken grass-
hopper... .Abel G.: Lacks interest... .Wayback: You
aren’t horrid, and it didn’t bore us a bit. But be
briefer, madam, next time D.D.: Being dull it
was rejected. Being unstamped it was destroyed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.G.S.: The lady’s figure is all on one side. Any-
how, we’re not keen on that type of jest.... Alex.
C.: The cart seems to be loaded with broken short-
hand. The man sitting dcfwn is not even interested
in the leg you have broken for him. All this is
unnatural... .L.A.H.: Cheer up ! As you say, “Rome
wasn’t built in a day.” The best authorities agree
that it took at least two and a half days F.C.K.:
You’ve only a vague idea of form and your line is
nervous... .C.E.J.: Some promise there. Keep peg-
ging away....A.J.McR.: Both figures suffering from
that fixed 100 k... .E.M.: Why has the barber got a
flat top to his head?... .0.5.: Tried it on two
patients and both groaned.... Scottie T.: No more,
thanks... .W.: Two little flat men made of scratches.
. ...C.8.: Some vigor, but neither near publication
1eve1.... R.L.H.: The wretched, onion-drenched bar-
ber is keeping his distance. Why didn’t you draw
him hanging over his subject? Also, why didn’t you
draw him better? T.S.McB.: Gloomy, ill-drawn
diagram... .E.S.: Your aeroplane seems to have been
built by a mad Chinese cabinetmaker.
“Loco”: Re electricity produced by escap-
ing steam (B. 8/7/’2O). Twenty years or more
ago _we Yic. jailway men were using loco-
motive No. 75, O class, for shunting in the
Spencer-street goods yard. When the safety
valves began to gently “simmer,” we could
get a distinct electric shock by touching any
iron part of the cab. This would cease when
the pressure lifted the valves and she “blew
off” hard. Old 49, which blew up in the
Sunbury smash, behaved in the same wa.w
And the bushmen are the truest
Of God’s creatures on this earth,
Facing odds when things look bluest,
Always happy, full of mirth.
Although the outside may be rough,
On his old hardened features,
The truest hearts are never tough,
And he’s one of God’s best teachers.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de -
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
■ rate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
-ates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
el.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
till: Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 18,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, CUFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
_ Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES. —Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THIS
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253'George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL EANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
DIBECTons —Geo. Edwd. Bunuing, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFTICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places Throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988 '
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,600,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224 _
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES deposits
at Interest for
fixed periods, and,
transact* all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Aiistraksian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, August 19.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 9.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, August 10.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney August 5.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
*
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES ~. 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons 1
First- and Third-class Passengers carried. _ \
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
f
Directors:
- £1,765,700
- 3,375,000
- 4,765,700
£18,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.CQI.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq ; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Heart Office — George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on* Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
» T
3M o( Sustralta
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches) and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3£% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on ..Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1520 Governor
Shipping.
*#ws wmbu*
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KUNAJIRI MARU, sailing about
22nd July.
MITSUKI MARU, end of July.
MADRAS MARU, early August.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
* Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker CiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. ct O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messsgeries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Mariit:), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane,


<*
I ,
ABBEY
SHOES
enable you to maintain that style standard
which the well-dressed man always
desires. The quality of our footwear is
absolutely dependable, and you are
assured perfect comfort, as all our shoes
are made on our own lasts and in three
fittings.
We illustrate a high-grade Patent Oxford
Bal., Dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 65/-
AII Patent
Tan
67/6
60/-
In Half-sizes, Narrow, Medium and Wide
Fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street*
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote von price fot it.
We Desire
to Buy
ds
PLATINUM, at £l2 per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Pine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd^iJSK* 1,
Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Casli Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Messrs. METHUEN'S
NEW BOOKS.
band your name and address to Messrs. Methuen,
and you will receive regularly their Illustrated
Announcement List.
GENERAL LITERATORE.
Dupleix and Clive: The Beginning of
Empire. By Henry Dodwell, M.A.,
Oxon., F. R. Hist, S., Curator of
the Madras Record Offices. Demy
Bvo. 12s. 6d. net.
The main object of this book is to show the
conditions under which the British Empire in
India came into being.
Scala Mundi. By Arthur Chandler,
Lord Bishop of Bloemfontein,
Author of “Ara Cocli.” Crown Bvo.
4s. 6d. net.
This essay is an attempt to trace an orderly
process of advance and development running
through the various gradations of being.
METHUEN’S POPULAR NOVELS.
Well-to-do Arthur. By W. Pett
Ridge.
“A genuine Pett Ridge product, compact of
uncommon wisdom as well as of his customary
wit.”— Morning Post.
Admiral Teach. By C. J. Cutcliffe
Hyne, Author of “Captain Kettle
on the War-path.”
The remarkable adventures of a modern
pirate.
The Code of the Mountains. By
Charles Neville Buck.
A splendid story of love and lawlessness,
with a very attractive hero and heroine.
Methuen U Co. Ltd.,
36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2.
THE MOORE 4-Speed GEAR BOX for FORD
Cars is now in use all over AUSTRALIA
There is plenty of proof that these Gears
are good and GIVE NO TROUBLE.
THE BEST EXTRA MADE FOR THE
FORD, providing—
AN OVERDRIVE GEAR,
AN INTERMEDIATE GEAR,
A FREE ENGINE IN NEUTRAL.
Send for testimonials.
WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO. LTD.
Suppliers of Motor Accessories,
=s
Now removed to 245-7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
where an up-to-date Accessory Supply Depot is being erected on property
lately purchased.
The Edison
Amberola
is a splendid
entertainer.
It will delight the musical tastes of every
member of the family, and afford endless
entertainment for the long winter nights, and
every night of the year.
\i
The Edison Amberola is made in various models at popular
prices, each being fitted with the famous Diamond Stylus
Reproducer, which plays the practically unbreakable Blue
Amberol Records—a combination ensuring a smooth,
mellow, even tone that will delight you.
You should certainly hear the Edison Amberola play. Call
on the nearest Edison dealer for a demonstration, or write
for details post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
I
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Jlb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26/-
f
"Simple and extra strong in construction
lilO. Winchester Single-shot Hide, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37iin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
60/-
d
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can he taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
Fitted with ladder rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 3/S.)
33/-
38/-
v''.'V
, , ‘
V
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Hain-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 611 b., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l3,
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
f
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sflb. ..
Freight paid,
£6/17/6
2b
New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Mttdel 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It has full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, five-shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target ff* ft O
work. Weight about 7-llb. Freight paid
=2s=
. .. t'..
m
■
“A suitable weapon for the hoy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
m
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight oilb. M CSi%C\ 1
Freight paid,
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water- and Moisture-proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
314*
mmoM
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, 20in.
round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid, '
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32,-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
£B/15/-
£9
£,7/17/6
c
TIUSnWJJfS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
nm TOBACCONISTS
ds
\ City Sports Depot
39 Kind 3t x also at
Tkyvcastlel Brisbane.


The REXONA REMEDIES
for SKIN HEALTH and
I
BEAUTY.
Dear Sirs, —
I am sending you my little daughter
Dulcie’s photo. She has been a Rexona
child since birth. We have found
Rexona Soap the best, and so have used
no other; likewise the same with the
ointment, and my husband finds Rexona
Shaving Stick the finest for shaving.
Hoping you will use this as you think
best,
I am,
Yours sincerely,
OLIVE DAVENPORT.
27 Stafford Street,
Paddington, N.S.W.
Little DULCIE DAVENPORT, a true
Rexona Girl (from a photo).
Try the Rexona
Remedies.
They consist of Rexona
the Rapid Healer, Rexona
Skin and Racial Soap, and
Rexona “The Triangular
Shaving Stick.” They are
all universal favorites with
everyone who values a
clear, healthy skin. Rexona
Ointment is the skin
remedy of the age, and quickly
heals all cuts, sores or skin erup-
tion of any kind. Rexona Soap is
a pure, medicated soap, and is un-
equalled for the toilet, nursery and
hath. Rexona Shaving Stick makes
shaving a pleasure; it lathers easily,
is economical, and keeps the skin in
perfect condition. You try the
Rexona Remedies for yourself, and
you will be delighted with them.
Sion\. nik
Om+rntfr*
p ( jrih* s ’ 4# Absolufely
i Htalj J ReircO>l*
b
'7Z"
/•■ . ~ —. I
J=»
Hi
fi£«s
SKIN
REFRESHING SOOTIIINI
HEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP
M’EOICATED ON THE SAME PRINCIPAL
AS THE FAMOUS REXONA OINTMENT
</0
m
Rexona,
1/6 & 3/-
Rexona
Soap, 1/-
Rexona
Shaving
Stick, 1/6.
Brush Painting' is too
Costly for Big Jobs
, , / »~i •
The extra time involved adds a heavy
increase to cost of production and also
causes unnecessary delays with reduced
output.
The Airostyle
Paint Spraying
Unit
supersedes painting by brush, It is
acknowledged to-day as the most effici-
ent and rapid method for painting,
varnishing, enamelling, etc.
The Airostyle is used extensively by
Admiralty, War Offices, Royal Flying
Corps, B.S.A. Co., Fletcher Russell Co.,
J. Lucas Ltd., as well as by manufacturers of lines which
require pointing* such os motor bodies, gos-meters, etc.
One Firm Reduced Number of
Operators from 200 to 90
after installing. The Airostyle gives a smooth, lustrous finish
with plenty of body. Uses ordinary paint. It is well
constructed to render efficient service, and is simple to
understand and operate.
The Airostyle is equipped for every emergency, and for this
reason guarantees the most reliable service of any machine.
Get Catalogue, Prices, etc.
British -Australian Engineering Co. Ltd.,
National Mutual Buildings, Cr. Queen and Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Agents: Austral Engineering Supply Co., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Parsons & Robertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A Ballade of Midnight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.^TTAS that the drifting wind?
\ V Was that the quiet rain
* f That stirred the dangling blind
Arid fumbled at the pane?
With every sense astrain
I watch the curtain’s fold
Rise, hear a voice complain:
“Oh, sweetheart, I am cold!”
Is it my brooding mind?
Sick fancies of the brain?
They whom the cerements bind
Come no more to the sane.
God, let the long night wane!
For still I smell the mould,
Still hear that breathed refrain:
“Oh, sweetheart, I am cold I”
Poor nerveless fingers, twined
About the latch.... in vain!
Blind arms still stretched to find
Where you so warm have lain!
And that low voice of pain,
That was so gay of old,
Crying again, again:
"Oh, sweetheart, I am cold!”
Envoy.
Oh, come, for I am fain
Still of thy clasp. Behold,
Death shall not rend us twain,
Sweetheart, I too am cold.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
A Night on the Sirius.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lieutenant-governor king
was up early on the windy morning
of Saturday, March 3, 1790, having
been called from his bed at dawn by the look-
out and was staring across the smother ot
foam on the reef, and over the heaving grey
seas, at two ships that pitched and rolled
out in the offing of Norfolk Island. It was
cloudy morning, with a strong gale blow-
ing from the south-westward, and the land-
ing-place in Sydney Bay was obviously lm-
practicable. Upon the hillside, behind the
little settlement that he had founded just two
vears before, the great pine-trees bent their
symmetrical tops to the wind and roared sul-
lenly as it tore through their level branches.
Six miles across the waters the tall pyramid
of Phillip Island —not red and bare as the
rabbits have since made it —loomed up
against the dull sky, as H.M.S. Sirius and
her tender, the Supply, curtseyed and dipped
past its north-western corner.
“Run up the ‘bad-landing’ flags, Smithers,
he said to the waiting signalman. “No boat
can get through the reef to-day., They 11
have to go round to the Cascades.”
So presently the string of bunting flut-
tered out on the flagstaff up on the high
bluff of Point Ross, and in a little time the
two vessels had passed out of sight behind
the pines on Nepean Island, as they ran
round to the north side of Norfolk, along its
eastern coast. Off Ball’s Bay the Sirius
hove-to and sent a boat ashore with Gover-
nor Phillip’s despatches, addressed to Lieu-
tenant Philip Gidley King, R.N., his de-
puty in the tiny outpost of New South
Wales—the colonial dependency of his own
precariously-situated kingdom at Port Jack-
Sydney was starving that year. No help
or assistance had arrived from England
since the First Fleet landed the thousand
souls that belonged to the pioneers of Aus-
tralia, H.M.S. Guardian, under “the gal-
lant, good Riou,” having been wrecked on
an iceberg to the south of the Cape of Good
Hope, when she was bringing the sorely-
needed provisions which, almost literally,
meant life or death to the settlement. So
Phillip, almost in despair, had sent. Major
Ross to relieve King, and to take with him
a large proportion of the convicts. and a
detachment of marines that there might be
fewer hungry mouths to feed at Port Jack-
son, and in the hope that the fertile islet
out in mid-ocean might prove more hospit-
able than the barren lands lying about Syd-
ney Cove. It was a desperate expedient;
but the situation was desperate.. Afterwards
the Sirius was to sail to China, seeking
foodstuffs.
In the afternoon the marines and convicts
were landed at the Cascades. Next day the
new Lieutenant-Governor came ashore and
walked across the island to the settlement.
He requested Mr. King to “carry on” until
his departure in the Supply.
Until Thursday the ships stood, off and
on, landing their stores and provisions at
the Cascades and Sydney Bay whenever an
opportunity offered. The wind went round
to the N.E., and on the Tuesday they were
blown to sea, and spent the next morning
Working up to the island, when the Supply
contrived to land some of her cargo. All
that night a heavy gale raged, and the ram
came down in torrents. And this is what
happened the following day, as Mr. King
Wrote it down at the time. The wind was
in the E.S.E., and he notes that there was
“a very good landing all the day” r
Moderate gales. At daylight made the signal that
landing was very good and that the large boats
could land. The Supply in the roads and the Sirius
standing in. Received everything from the Supply.
At noon the Sirius, having twice missed stays and
being embayed, struck on the outer part of the
reef. Received a small quantity of provisions from
her by the boats, but the surf being much increased
alongside her, and the wreck of her mast having
staved some of the boats, no more could lay along-
side. In the evening the weather having a very
bad appearance, and knowing that the ship would
not possibly hold together if the surf increased
more on the flowing tide, which was very likely to
happen, I made signs that remaining on board the
ship was dangerous. Having got some hawsers from
the ship, and a traveller to one of them, hauled the
captain and part of the officers and people on shore
and saved their lives with difficulty, having dragged
them across ve reef through a very great surf. Most
part of the officers and people remained on board the
Sirius’s wreck all night. The ship lies broadside
to the surf, which breaks over her cross-tree.
It is merely an extract from that plainest
and least pretentious of all literary remains,
a sailor’s log. and gives very little suggestion
of the excitement and interest that was
caused by what was easily the most excit-
ing and interesting thing that, had happened
in the island since human beings had come
to inhabit it.
And now we arrive at the diverting ex-
ploit of Messrs. Brannagan and Dring,
which is the reason for this story.
J°was y reSST Norfolk Wand SS
he hid been ca«ie° S enough to have been
iht with his hand in another gentle-
-3 ‘ pocket in Saekville-street, when the
Feiners of the period were holding a
innutrition Bill Dring was there because
of exactly the same misfortune having oc-
cnrred to him in Cheapside during the pass-
“ f the Lord Mayor’s Show of 1786. It
mfv have been that this similarity m the
Masons for which the Southern Hemisphere
was favored by their presence had msen-
SSfy drawn them together; but however that
Lav be it is quite certain that they were
ferv intimate friends, or, as we say deli-
cately in these days, cobbers. They lived
together in a little turf hut half-way up
the valley behind the settlement at Sydney
Bav shared their rations and their tobacco,
and ’ tilled their tiny garden during those
hours when they were excused from public
la They were engaged in cooking their mid-
day meal on the Friday-boiled pork for
Bill Dring, he being a Cockney Jew without
any prejudices, and a fish for Johnny, be-
cause he was a very devout Catholic.
“Johnny,” remarked William, as he
stooped over the smoky fire in thd dark in-
terior of the windowless hut, this ere
wood’s as wet as th’ Weedin' surf on th’
reef. See can ye git a dry stick or two
thin, an’ where’d I be after gettin’
i drv stick? There don’t be such a thing
in the whole island this blessed day, so
there’s not!”
His companion roared at lnm.
“ ’Ave a look for one, ye fat- eaded
bog-trotter. Look outside someveres. Dye
hexpect me for to do hall th’ vork, an keep
th’ fire a-goin’ too? Use y’ - heyes.
Grumbling a little, Johnny went out.
Almost immediately Mr. Dring was startled
bv a yell, and in his agitation upset the pot,
putting out the fire completely.
“God’s curse on ye, ye mad Irishman!
he shouted, springing out through the low
doorway, almost with murder in his soul.
Brannagan was staring down at the foam-
lined reef.
“Bill —Bill!” he howled. “Howly Mary,
’tis herself has gone ashore. ’Tis.tli’ Sirrus
is on th’ rocks. Oh, th’ murthenn misfor-
tune ! Come ye out, Bill, an see fry silt.
Howly Moses!”
Bill Dring forgot his just wrath as he,
too, looked down at the tragic spectacle
being enacted in front of the settlement. As
they watched they saw the stern lift up ana
settle with a crash that they could almost
hear, fast on the reef. Just in time the
two anchors —one of them is in Macquarie-
place in Sydney —had been let go, and the
cables stoppered, and this had brought her
bows to the great rollers that thundered on
the reef, and saved her for a few days from
being dashed to pieces, as she must have
been had she lain broadside on.
“Och, sure, ’tis th’ gret calamity!” whis-
pered Johnny Brannagan.
“Ye fool! ’Tis th’ best that’s ever
happened,” growled Mr. Dring scornfully.
Down at the shore, when Messrs. Branna-
gan and Dring added themselves to the ex-
cited crowd watching the wreck, there was
a good deal of confusion that was not long
permitted. Mr. King was, above everything
else, a competent seaman —one of those loth
century sailors to whom such a disaster as
this was merely an incentive to display the
knowledge of the craft that was theirs, lie
was not long in setting about the task or
making the best of this pretty bad job. And
those on board knew exactly what to do.
When she struck she seems to have broken
her back, and one of the masts went by the
board. The others were immediately cut
away. As soon as it was evident that no
hope remained for her, Captain Hunter, her
commander, had a light line made fast to a
drift buoy, which tvas thrown over the stern,
and was presently washed on to the beach by
the surf. Then a stout hawser was hauled
ashore, and made fast high up the trunk of a
pine-tree, while those on board the ship
tautened it with the capstan. On the haw-
ser was placed the heart of a stay—a piece
of wood with a hole through it — and to
this a grating was slung after the manner
of a pair of scales. Two lines were made
fast on either side the heart—one to haul
it on shore, the other to haul it on board.
On this the shipwrecked seated themselves
two or more at a time, and thus were drag-
ged on shore through a sad, dashing surf which
broke frequently over-heads, keeping them
a considerable time under water, some ot
them coming on shore half-drowned and a
good deal bruised. Captain Hunter was a
good deal hurt, and with repeated seas
knocked off the grating insomuch that all the
lookers-on feared greatly for his _ letting go,
but he got on shore safe, and his hurts by
no means dangerous.” (The Southwell
Papers.) .
On the following day everyone was taken
out of the Sirius, and on the Monday the
work of clearing her of her stores was pro-
ceeded with. Ever since the ship had gone
on the reef a heavy sea had been running,
which made the work difficult and danger-
ous, and it reached its height now. Dow
the ship held together was a marvel to thoss
who were watching her from the shore.
She was reputed to be a crazy hulk at tne
best of times, but in some extraordinary
fashion she died hard, and everything of
any value was taken out of her before she
finally went to pieces.
“Bill,” asked Johnny Brannagan, as they
sat before their fire on Sunday, “what made
ye to say ’twas th' best that ever happened,
the other day, when th’ King’s ship was
after a-perchin’ herself on th’ rocks down
below there beyond?” .
Mr Dring looked at the Irishman cun-
ningly. “Did I say that, Johnny?” he asked.
“Faith, ye did thin; an’ ’twas mesilt
cuddent th’ sinse in such a sayin’. How
cud th’ Sirrus bein’ all broke up, an th
good beef an’ porruk we do be a-wantm so
bad all to get spoilt be th’ say water?
’Tain’t in sinse or rayson, such talk as that.
Sure, ’tis no good to no one such a thing is;
an’ ’tis mesilf’s bin a-wond’rin’ what twas
ye might be after a-drivin’ at whin ye said
it. Come, tell me now —what’s in y r
moind?” ,
Mr. Dring rose, and went to the door,
making a great show of looking out. into the
(Continued on next page.)


%
4D
OTi
t
Rub if in
For Rheumatism, Sciatica, Cold Limbs, Cramp,
Stiffness and Winter Aches and Pains.
RUBBING Zam-Buk in is the surest way to rub pain, disease and irritation out. As an embrocation for
deep-seated pains, such as Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Neuralgia and other affections of
the fibrous tissues, Zam-Buk possesses many superior merits. The refined juices and essences
of which Zam-Buk is composed penetrate right through the tissues, get at the very root of the trouble,
and once there simply drive the pain out. Rub well in to remove stiffness or to get at the root of
any deep-seated rheumatic or sciatic pain.
Zam-Buk has been proved to possess unique virtue as a remedy for cold in the throat and
head. Rubbed well into the throat, chest and back Zam-Buk soaks into the tissues, soothing pain
and removing that “tightness” which is such an annoying symptom of a cold on the chest.
Great benefit is often derived by rubbing Zam-Buk between the palms of both hands and then
inhaling the pleasant odor of the evaporating balsams. This loosens the stuffiness in the nose, clears
the head and relieves that dull, heavy feeling. By using Zam-Buk in this way many a cold and sore
throat has been prevented from developing into a more serious trouble.
RUB ZAM-BUK IN TO RUB PAIN OUT.
REFUSE
SUBSTITUTES
SEE YOU
GET
ZAM-BUK.
RHEUMATISM IN FEET & ANKLES.
Mrs. D. Connolly, of 247 Franklin Street,
Adelaide, says:—“l contracted rheumatics in both
ankles. It settled in the feet, and was bad for
three or four years. The pain would be intoler-
able, and I was not able to get my shoes on. I
was confined to my room and could not get about.
I tried about eighteen different remedies, without
avail. At last a friend advised me to try Zam-
Buk. I took her advice and massaged Zam-Buk
in frequently. The inflammation was drawn out
like perspiration and the swelling went down, and
after using the third pot of Zam-Buk I was com-
pletely cured.”
Zam-Bub is proved unexcelled for chilblains, chapped hands, raw skin, cuts, bruises, scalds,
burns, sores, bad legs, ulcers, abrasions, pimples, blisters, children’s sores, abscesses, ringworm;,
barber’s rash, scalp troubles, sore feet, heat rashes, boils, sunburn, festering sores, piles, sprains,
scabs, barcoo rot, insect stings, sore heels, eczema, poisoned wounds, stiffness and injured and
diseased conditions of the skin generally. From all chemists and stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot, or
post free, direct from C. E. Fulford (Aust.), Etd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
hm-Bu
cc
RUB
IT
gathering dusk to see if any listeners might
be hovering near the hut. Reassured of
their loneliness he came inside again, and sat
down on his stool by the fireplace.
“Johnny,” he half whispered, “I’ve a plan
in me head. What’s in th’ Sirius, I
arsk ye? Ain’t there some o’ th’ very things
we’re a-wantin’ most for to make ourselves
comfortable here ? Any amount o’ things
that’d be good for us. They ’aven’t got the
’alf of it on shore yet. There’s rum, Johnny
—rum. Lashin’s of it. Why shouldn’t me
an’ you have some of it?”
“Ivry pint that comes to the beach is
marked,” said Johnny Brannagan, mourn-
fully. “ ’Tis not a sup that a mahn can
git for himself at all, at all—bad luck to
thim that’s lookin’ after it! ’Tis divil a drop
there is for the likes of us, Billy boy. Divil
a drop.”
“You just leave it to me. If ye’re man
enough to come off to the wreck with me to-
morrow we’ll get our belly-full of it. If
I volunteers for to go off, are ye game for
to come with me?”
“Game, is it? Faith, I’m game to do much
fer a skinful o' rum, Billy boy. I’d folly
ye to H—l for that same. Make y’silf
aisy on that score, me boy.”
“Then we’ll ha’ th’ time of our life to-
morrow, Johnny—if ye’ll do as I do. Leave
me to do th’ talkin’.”
Early on the following morning a cere-
monial parade of all the inhabitants of Nor-
folk Island was held on the flat behind
Sydney. Bay, below the flagstaff, upon which
the Union Jack was hoisted. “The troops,”
says Mr. King, “were drawn up in two
lines, having the Union at their head in the
centre, with the colors of the detachment
displayed, the Sirius’s ship’s company on
the right and ye convicts on the left, the
officers in the centre, when the proclama-
tion was read declaring the law martial to
be that by which the island was in future to
be governed until further orders. The
Lieut.-Governor addressed the- convicts,
after which the whole gave three cheers,
and then every person, beginning with the
Lieut.-Governor and Captain Hunter, passed
under the Union in token of a promise or
oath to submit and be amenable to the law
martial then declared.”
After this little ceremony came to an
end Captain Hunter and Mr. King were
standing by the tree to which the hawser
from the Sirius was attached, looking at
the wreck, when Mr. Dring sidled up behind
them and coughed respectfully. Captain
Hunter was speaking.
“Yes,” he f was saying, “’twill be a most
severe blow to his Excellency. You can
have no idea how badly supplies are needed
at Port Jackson. Why the Guardian has
not yet arrived I know not. Some dis-
aster I expect. But the Sirius was our
sole remaining hope—the only ship we have
to send away for the relief we cannot do
without. ’Twill mean nothing less than
famine, I fear.”
“ ’Tis most unfortunate,” Mr. King was
agreeing, when he became aware of some-
one close behind him. He turned, and be-
held Mr. Dring, his hat in his hand, and
a look of great apology in his sharp features.
“Well, wliat do you want?” asked Mr.
King, a little impatiently.
“If you please, y’r honor, me and my
mate we was wishful to be of some sarvice,
y’r honor. We’d be willing for to go off
to the ship, if your honor was to give your
consent.”
“Oh, ’tis you, Bring—well, but there’s
no one off on her to-day. The surf is run-
ning too strongly for the boats to go along-
side. Nothing can be done until the sea
moderates itself.”
“If y’r honor pleases, there’s all that live
stock still aboard —and maybe if the sea
gets up any more, and the ship breaks up,
they’ll be lost. We was a-thinkin’ mayhap
a couple of willing men could put them
overboard. We’d be willing for to be
hauled off along the hawser, and see to th’
job—if y’r honor’d keep our conduct in
mind for a remission of some part of our
sentences.”
“ ’Tis not a bad notion, King,” said Cap-
tain Hunter, looking towards the wreck.
“There is something in what the fellow
says. We certainly can’t afford to risk
the loss of those pigs and sheep. Do you
think you could stand being hauled through
that surf, my man?”—he pointed out to
where the curling breakers roared and
crashed just below the sagging line.
“Oh, I think so, sir. We’re both strong,
active men—and ’twould be a great con-
solation to men in our position to do our
best in mit’gation of this unfort’nit calam-
ity. A very great consolation.”
“Who’ve you got with you?” asked Mr.
King.
“John Brannagan, sir. He’s here behind.
I’m sure we could do it, sir.”
“What do you think, sir?” King asked
Captain Hunter.
“Well, yes, I think so—if they’re willing
to take the risk. If you do the work
successfully, my man, I think we can answer
for it that your conduct will be rewarded.”
“Very well, Bring. Get some men to man
the line and pull you across. But ye’d
better hang on tight. That surf’s no joking
matter. All right, get aboard if you can, and
put the animals over. They’ll swim ashore.”
All the forenoon a succession of aston-
ished pigs, two heifers and a steer, and
about a dozen sheep swam eomplainingly
through the surf, and landed on the narrow
beach behind the reef. But in the after-
noon the importation of live stock to Nor-
folk Island slackened perceptibly, and as
the evening closed in and neither Mr. Dring
nor Mr. Brannagan returned on shore, Mr.
King became apprehensive for their safety.
Clearly, something had happened. These
two zealous volunteers would not have been
missing had it not been so.
About 2 o’clock Johnny Brannagan voiced
a complaint to his companion that he was
both hungry and thirsty.
“Sure thin’, Billy Boy, I don’t be after
seein’ that this hard worruk is all we come
aboard this ould hooker for, is it now? Me
belly thinks ’tis me Croat is cut, an’ me
Croat can’t think at all, at all, for th’
rayson ’tis so dry. Can we not refresh
oursilves, th’ laste little bit? Sure we’ve
airnt it, haven’t we?”
Mr. Dring pushed a squealing pig through
a gun-port, and straightened his back.
“We’ll see wot we can find in the cap’n’s
cabin, Johnny, me lad. Come along.”
Almost immediately they found a jar of
rum—and that was the end of their labors.
The afternoon wore on, and, as dusk settled
down, the melodious voice of Johnny Bran-
nagan was raised in song, to an accom-
paniment of the seething splash of the surf
along the sides of the battered warship.
Mr. Dring did not permit music to inter-
rupt his long and eloquent monologue con-
cerning his interesting past. When it grew
dark he found a candle and lighted it, and
they continued to sing and speechify, dimly
conscious of the fact that this was the most
agreeable interlude that had come their way
since they had been carried into exile. What-
ever might come after, this glorious and
diverting adventure had been mightily well
worth it.
Mr. King stood on the shore, and gazed
anxiously out at the dark hull of the Sirius
lying amidst the white swirl of waters at
the edge of the reef. When the light
appeared he became impatient.
“Confound them,” he said, “have they
taken up their residence in the ship? We’ll
give them a signal.”
He sent for the guard, and ordered them
to fire several volleys from their muskets
into the air. There was no response from
the wreck. The light burned steadily, show-
ing through the stern windows of the cabin.
“If ye please, y’r honor, I thought I could
hear someone a-singin’ in th’ ship.” Mr.
John Arscott, the carpenter of the Sirius,
addressed the exasperated Mr. King.
“By Heavens,” he exploded wrathfully,
Til give them something to sing about.
Load the signal gun—-with shot —Arscott,
and fire at the light. Stand clear, every-
one.”
The little gun—a three-pounder—was
duly loaded, and presently flashed and
roared its unmistakable signal to the revel-
lers on the wreck. Those on shore could
hear the smack of the ball as it struck the
hull. But nothing happened.
Then the carpenter volunteered to go off
to the wreck and find out what was amiss.
They hauled the cradle back, and he was
lashed into it. He was pulled slowly out
through the surf, the hauling-line running
through a block at the stern of the ship.
It was an inspiring sight that met John
Arscott’s astonished vision when he entered
the cabin.
Mr. Dring lay along the table fast asleep,
whilst Mr. Brannagan, sprawling in Cap-
tain Hunter’s armchair, still feebly chhnted
the glories and the charms of Ireland. With
an enraged bellow the dripping carpenter
knocked him over backwards. Then he
picked him up, dragged him on to the poop
by the collar of his jacket, lashed him to
the cradle, and tugged at the hauling-line as
a signal to those on shore. In 20 minutes
or so the cradle came back, and he des-
patched Bill Dring ashore in a similar
fashion.
“Now,” said Mr. Arscott, as he descended
the poop-ladder to the cabin, “now ’tis my
turn for the rum!”
Mr. King had gone to his cottage for
supper when John Brannagan came ashore
—a little sobered by the surf. When his
comrade had joined him they were both, as
he had left instructions, lugged up to his
quarters. Drunkenly they 'swayed before
him.
“What have ye to say?” demanded Mr.
Kins: sternly.
“Flog an’ be d—d to ye,” hiccupped
Mr. Bring—“ ’Twas —-hie—worth it. Very
pleashant ev’nin’.”
“Sain’ Patrick wash a
crooned Mr. Brannagan.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Winner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE owner and trainer were looking
disconsolately at the dead horse in
the paddock when Honi arrived.
“Hullo, poss, what te matter —he dead?”
“Yes, Honi, he’s dead all right.”
“Py cripes, tat te pad luck to you. But
I give you £lO for him, eh?”
“Ten pound! He’s no good to you, Honi—
he’s dead!”
“Ne’mind, I give you £lO for him.”
Honi promptly paid over the £lO to the
surprised owner, and departed in haste to
the township. Entering the bar of the local
pub he met a number of his brown brothers.
“Py cripes, I puy te great racehorse —he
te best horse in Waikato. He win next
time he start!”
Iloni’s proud announcement caused great
excitement and not a little jealousy, as it
was the ambition bf every Maori in the
district to own a racehorse. Two or three
offered Honi £2O, but after much argument
and discussion as to the merits of the horse
Honi said:
“Werra, I terra you what I do, poys—l
raffer him, so everybody ket te chance to win
him. I have five ticket, and everybody erres
have one ticket each. One pound a ticket.”
There was a rush for the tickets, and Honi
collected £BO as the news spread through
the village that a racehorse was to be
raffled. An hour later everybody who had
an “interest” in the prize—and many others
who hadn’t—gathered in the bar, where te
poss drew the winning number from a hat.
“Py corry, Toa win te horse!”
After everyone had had a drink —at Toa’s
expense—Honi got him on one side and said,
“You get te pridle, Toa, and we go and
catch him!” Then they set off for the pad-
dock.
“Py cripes, what te matter wit him?” said
Toa when they sighted the horse.
“Oh, he tired and lie down, I tink,” said
Honi.
“Why, he te dead horse, Honi!” Toa ex-
claimed in dismay when they reached the
animal.
Honi looked horribly surprised, then said:
“Oh, tat te prurry pad luck, Toa. By cripes,
I sorry for you. Ne’ mind —I give you pack
your pound. Doesn’t matter about te other
ferrer—tey all lost, anyway!”
BROWN IRISH.


Bi®§l
I M
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierßton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
HD RUCK'S
MALTED MILK
/ >
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grain*
-—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to* the taste.
3^?
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson k Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
TVsk for Horficß\s
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wra Supply—
JAHR AH and Tasmanian Hard*'
wood Piles, Hearns, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders*
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HA-LL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STItEET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PTTT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALT. AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian.
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Beading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London. W.G.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
WRfGLEYS
This Flavour
is NEW-
You'll like .
it! A
a
ffl
JC
When you
are nervous or
tired* get this re-
freshment from any
storekeeper or confectioner
3d. per packet
Fine for the breath
after smoking.
Whether you work
or Play* WRIGLEy’S
is a friend indeed!
d 3d. for trial packet
to W RIG LEVS
Box 2376* G. P. Or
m
m
SQr.
m
5$
cl
Made 111
Australasia
4 A-22
The Flavour Lasrs
fil?
i prj
cQ;
to
■ BF 1
, — s
;£).
':•#! V
&r,
7
VAy\
IK i-'
o
mr
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully-
describing our PATENT AIK, CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It, will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what.rive
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
ail.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THS WINSLOW CO.,
3*9 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has ontlived the Centurfe*,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tire Remedy used by Army and JS'avy men.
Used since iftafi. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”’—refuse ail substitutes.
SUCCESS
To succeed in Jife good spirits and hopeful
are required. The man who is de-
irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both
your health and
business will bene-
fit No Dain. no
f
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
discomfort. 'Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and young—purely vegetable.
Small Pill-Small Dosa -Small Prica.
GENUINE must
bear signature
sdf
ii: any illustrative
Bulletin takes your ..
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
appearing in Tilt
fancy, write to the
y;
Z
/
TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge—•
Examine the brass base of the cartridge for
the company’s own marking.
emin
* l/M
fsd
REMINGTON
smokeless
powder
fd
NITRO CLUB
smokeless
powder
fds
ARROW
smokeless
powder
UM
NEW cum
blac!
powder
cm
śdf
ARMS UMC COMI
» Australian Represent* tiro
i O. P. 0., Melbourne


NGROVTT
LEATHER
LTI
HITCH YOUR PULLEYS UP
TO MAHCROVITE BELTING
and you automatically increase the efficiency
of your power plant. This ideal Aus-
tralian belting maintains a steady frictional
grip on the pulleys that eliminates all
power leakage. Its hard wearing qualities,
too, make it more economical.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowfol, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
S , ,'.^ l i Btralia: Bright & Co., Fremantle
S th Australia: John Reid & Bons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
m
n
Proved in Actual Work
>re convincing than pages of type is the
hiaiw do with our
“ULTRA-CAPITAL” HIGH-SPEED TWIST DRILLS
They are the result of 75 years’ experience. Leading engineers the world
over have proved their superiority in quick, clean, accurate cutting and
long life.
Stocked in all sizes, with round, square or taper shanks.
For prompt attention address inquiries to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., Sydney.
264 Xatrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Koad, Kalgroorlle.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Keid and Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul and Gray, JLtd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chemicals?
As Agents for the United Alkali Co., Ltd.,
England, we quote the lowest direct indent
prices, and from stock, for (bulk only) :
Soda Ash, Silicate of Soda, Bicarbonate
of Soda, Caustic Soda (lump, powdered
and tinned), Chloride of Lime (bulk or
tins), Chloride of Magnesium, Chloride
of Ammonium, Muriate of' Ammonia,
Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, etc.
ALSO—Naphthaline, Dextrine, Carbolic
Acid, Powdered and Lump Alum,
Borax, Bichromate of Soda, Hyposul-
phite of Soda, French Chalk, etc.
Aniline Dyes, Hematine, Fustic, etc.
Whale, Cod and Herring Oils.
James Hardie & Co. Ltd*
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
P.O. Box 2536. P.O. Box 2502. P.O. Box 428.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
■ —their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to »ive “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD. , Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
t
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. $ W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office— AGENTS—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD., ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. Adelaide Brisbane Perth
GARAGES! GARAGES!
In the Matter of Machinery for the COMPRESSING
and CONVEYING OF AIR FOR GARAGE USE
■
are
to
For your FREE AIR SERVICE which you are about to
instal consider for a moment this Specification of the
Mayo Combination Free Air Outfit.
SWANS LIMITED,
- JL
It consists of 1 AIR COMPRESSOR, 1 EXTRA-HEAVY AIR TANK, 16in. x 48in„ tested to 3001 b. per sq. in., 1 CHECK VALVE for use between
Compressor and Tank, 1 % in. DRAIN COCK for Tank, 1 TRIPLE TANK FITTING, consisting of ADJUSTABLE* SAFETY VALVE, 2001 b. PRES-
SURE GAUGE, AIRTIGHT NEEDLE VALVE and PIPE FITTINGS.
THE AIR COMPRESSOR has a 3in. bore by a stroke of 4in., guaranteed pressure 2001 b. to the sq. in. Speed 350 to 400 r.p.m, outlet for 94 in.
pipe, fast and loose pulleys 13in. dia., Flywheel 14in. dia., Capacity at 350 r.p.m. 5.59 cub. feet, at 400 r.p.m. 6.38 cub. feet Air per minute, Power
required at 1501 b. pressure l*4h.p.
THE AIR TANK filled to 150 pounds pressure will inflate approximately 20 ordinary-size Automobile Tyres.
PRICE OF OUTFIT, £37/10/- COMPLETE. TERMS if desired. Early application is necessary, as only a few are in stock.
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ms*
-
There’s a Knowles Pump
for every type of service
It needs a big flight of imagination to conceive at a moment the wide field success-
fully served by KNOWLES PUMPS. From the world’s greatest docks and industrial un-
dertakings to the humblest pumping job, Knowles Pumps are holding a rei>utation for
continuous dependable service. Particular care in design and construction build into them
an ability to meet overloads and to work reliably through long stretches that would
knock out pumps of inferior design and workmanship.
There is a KNOWLES PUMP for every class of service—for your
problem, supplied in SINGLE or DUPLEX, VERTICAL or HORI-
ZONTAL types. Ask us for particulars of BOILER FEED or PRES-
SURE PUMPS, TANK or LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS, MINE-SINKING
PUMPS, AIR PUMPS, CIRCULATING PUMPS, ETC.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Cable Address: “LACY,” Sydney.
A
‘A/, .JX - -
8 GENERAL ENGINEERS LTD.,
AE
Vj
Kingsway, London, W.C.2.
Incorporating:
AVELING & PORTER, LTD., Rochester,
Steam and Oil Rollers. >
BARFORD & PERKINS, LTD., Peterborough,
Water Ballast Motor Rollers and Land Rollers^
E. H. BENTALL & CO., LTD., Maldon,
Petrol Engines and Chaff Cutters.'
BLACKSTONE & CO., LTD., Stamford,
Oil Engines and Motor Tractors.
CHARLES BURRELL & SONS, LTD., Thetford,
Traction Engines and Road Locomotives.
DAVEY, PAXMAN & CO., LTD., Colchester,
Economic Boilers and Superheaters.
CLARKE’S CRANK & FORGE CO., LTD., Lincoln,
Forgings and Crankshafts, all types.
RICHARD GARRATT & SONS, LTD., Leiston,
Steam Waggons and Portable Steam Engines.
JAMES & FREDK. HOWARD, LTD., Bedford,
Ploughs, Cultivators and Baling Presses.
L. R. KNAPP & CO., LTD., Clanfield,
Seed and Manure Drills.
E. R. & F. TURNER, LTD., Ipswich,
Flour Milling Machinery.
Agents in all Capital Cities in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
Representative: J. W. GODFREY, Eastwood, N.S.W.
