

.v».
V.-;
; •* . • .
&
jfi
m
• i
-Steel Works-
i -X /P'
4
--3.
JM
Outcrop at
Iron Knob, S.A.
»/
fm
in 'in'
«• ft. uu<
mtst 71 \
■»
•* •€
wm
■o
fftTfc&Aw
Loading Jetty,
Whyalla, S.A.
15he
Broken Hill Proprietary
I Company Limited
' ' r? 1 <!
0
e
Manufacturers of
Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Ingots, Rails and Fishplates,
Plain and Bulb Angles, Channels, Beams, Tees, Rounds,
Squares, Flats, Wire Rods, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
Branches and Works:
LONDON, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE.
BROKEN HILL, N.S.W.; NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.; IRON KNOB, S.A.;
DEVONPORT, TAS.
HEAD OFFICE:
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2127.
Thursday, November 18, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD 4WS
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt
Bcllicourt—Nauroy^—Estrccs—Joncoort
ms riii
• i '-11
E*
l>n
'
r<
It can proudly inscribe these names in its annals.”
From Marshal Foch’s preface to
The Story of the
Fifth Australian
Division
By CAPT. A. D. ELLIS, M.C.
A complete record of its work from its formation to
the Armistice. With Illustrations, Charts, Roll of
Honor and Awards.
Price 18/- Postage 1/-
FROM YOUR BOOKSELLER
Melville
Pty.,
262-4 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
NOW ON SALE! .
■
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
(Without Clip,
SWAN
INK
A
.
m
>
v*:
• *• •••*'./
USE
SWANffiK
A
SPECIAL
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
'
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
•~v.n~
A 2
■ - m
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere “Vallo” is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
Vmri
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station. Its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it —and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
S-?
Look for the Trade Mark
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
* MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
IMUSTDIE.
non poisonous iwder.
THEGKKT INSECT ODTOJffiR.
Hies.
fleas.
Boqs.
fflosqoitaei
more effectively, and we
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Solti everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. [&
The Red Page
The Survival of Laughter
All men being human, a Professor of
Political Economy with a sense of humor
should not be as rare a thing as it is. The
saving sense must be there, dormant if it is
not active; the numbers of professorial
deaths in lunatic asylums would surely be
terrifying if it were not. The fond belief
helps towards the truth that laughter is more
important—more essential —than any form
of economy, political or honest. .»
Exempli gratia, Stephen Leacocx, Doctor
of Philosophy and Literature, Professor of
Political Economy at McGill University,
Montreal. This is a very remarkable man,
without, I think, prototype in letters. All
that mess of signs after a man’s nqme is a
pretty solemn thing—a starched, sublime
thing in its child-like confidence in theories.
But Leacock, his sense of humor in suspense,
swotted through it, and got the baubles and
the chair. Occasionally, presumably unable to
bear it another moment, he has burst out in
“Literary Lapses,” “Nonsense Novels,” “Ar-
cadian Adventures with the Idle Rich” as
protests. Some of this is plain farce, some
is satire; some a large humor, .some a large
and friendly castigation. All of it is laugh-
ter —good, sweet laughter, loud and long.
It may be that of all gifts the power to
make* laughter is the greatest. Not hysterical
guffaws, of course, but appreciative, artisti-
cally-induced laughter. I don’t see why pos-
terity, say of about a.d. 2420, shouldn’t
establish that the provisionally permanent
literary contributions of all the centuries'
are those which made the people laugh most.
One can trace a sort of gradual logic of
literary education. First, the meanings of
words; then, the shapes, of sentences; then,
ingenuity and color in subject-matter; and
now, all three. At any moment we may
suddenly find that we have been taught
everything, and that the surgical art of true
literary separation is free to descend upon
us. Quite good books have been popular
occasionally in the past 30 years, the occa-
sions growing less seldom with the years.
Still, the indications are that instinctive
literary selection will not bother us to any
heavy extent for some centuries to come. So
by 2420 there will probably be a pile of
matter, an unnegotiable mountain of stuff.
They may start by scrapping seven-eighths
o-f it under broad headings of “Negligible and
tedious effort, circa 1950-1955,” and so on,
whereby heaps of solemn copy will go up
forever in smoke, joyously unmourned. But
I can’t see any real laughter being burned.
Possibly the eighth left for the future will be
composed wisely and entirely of plain laugh-
ter.
But fifyout Leacock. In the haphazard
inspiration of laughter, style doesn’t matter
very much. The object,is simple and direct;
the . reader laughs or he doesn't, making
alternative success or failure. Yet in “Be-
hind the Beyond,” the fourth, I think, of
Leacock’s published books, a delicate artistry
took in a measure the place of the hearty
farce! of the first books. This note was
sustained in “Moonbeams from the Larger
Lunacy,” and “Further Foolishness.” Only
occasionally now one yelled with laughter,
but one was constantly grinning. Leacock’s
thin keen forefinger found every weak spot
in _ everything, pointing it out with a sane,
neighborly, all-in-the-same-boat smile. Every-
body bought; people who thought they knew,
people who didn’t know, and people who
knew they didn’t. And everybody got ex-
cellent value, and said so to the tune of
II and 12 editions. The books are mellow
and yet keen, merciless and yet kindly in
their wisdom of vision.
"Essays and Literary Studies” gave warn-
ing of possible constructive thinking on
paper. It is a curiously anomalous thing:
the man starts by being Professor of Poli-
tical Economy at McGill ; he welters in half-
a-dozen irresponsible absurdities, being at the
same time a Doctor of Literature and Philo-
sophy ; he casually dashes off the “Essays”
and Literary Studies” which strike several
entirely new notes in criticism ; and all the
time he sits in his chair at the University,
delivering, as occasion demands, his lectures
on Political Economy. This year he writes
“The Unsolved Riddle of Social Justice,” a
clear, direct statement of cause and effect in
post-war unrest and impending catastrophe.
It is political economy, of course, but it is
good. A fine, stabbing, short-sentence style,
a splendid example of the power of concen-
tration and reserve. In total separation from
the humorous books, the style makes the
hopeless matter most interesting, literarily
and generally. You couldn’t find a more
clearly stated presentment of all.the social
earthquakes of this year of grace, their
dangers and their remedies. So there it is :
a humorist, a new critic, a new and true
political economist; and all excellent. But
in 2420 the economy and the critiques will
be “Out of date” ; the laughter will perhaps
have a chance of survival.
L. J. H.
The Nation and the Song
The lyric poet is the most intimately
personal possession of a nation. The writer
of an epic or a drama uses the national
language in a broad sense, but only the lyrist
uses it in an intense manner. The words in
the dictionary are common to all three and
to the maker of prose as well; but the com-
bination of those words in their more delicate
and forceful grouping has nothing to do with
mere vocabulary. It is the very soul of the
language that is here touched, its finer
essence. The sweetest thoughts of a nation
for a thousand years are concentrated in the
phrasing; and the real meaning of a people,
the shape and purpose of its life, can only be
read in the magic of the lines. They cannot
be paraphrased into other words; volumes of
well-reasoned prose could never explain them ;
it is impossible to translate them into any
other tongue. All the lyrics of Greece and
Judaea and Rome are practically lost, though
some hint of them may be fitfully revealed to
a reader who is familiar enough with Greek,
Hebrew or Latin to think in the ancient
tongues. Even thinking in Greek, a man
might easily miss the wonder of Sappho, just
as many who have never thought in any
language but English miss the delight of
Keats; and turned into*the nearest lingual
equivalent in another tongue all lyrics grow
dull and a trifle wooden. Take, for instance,
the translations of Sappho. Here is one ver-
sion of a well-known fragment
The moon fiath sunk and the Pleiades,
Anti midnight is gone;
And the hour is passing, passing,
And I lie alone.
There is not much in that as English verse;
certainly nothing to keep the world hushed
with awe in speaking the name of the poet
who wrote it. Here is another rendering of
it:—:
The moon has dipt into the sea:
The Pleiad’s westering flight is flown:
Deep midnight’s pall hangs heavily
The time fleets by: and I—ah1 —ah me ! —-
Lie on my couch alone, alone.
I am daring enough to think I could better
that. Try •
The moon has-gone, tlie Pleiades have set,
Time passes.'and the midnight hour has flown;
Ah, heart, too heavy with ,a long regret,
I lie alone, alone.
But wliat use to pretend that any of these
give the heartbreak of the original—a heart-
break that stirred all that was best in Greece
for GOO years to a despairing worship of the
inimitable genius of the author! Try to
imagine the translation of “Tears, Idle
Tears/’ into Greek or any other language.
Make the best paraphrase you can of Milton’s
O’er the smooth enamelled green,
Where n& print oi step hath been,
Follow me, as I sing
And touch the warbled string;
Under the shady roof
Of branching elm star-proof
Follow me.
A very short struggle will show, that you
cannot translate that into other English
phrases and keep any of the magic ; and that
being so what hope of translating it into a
tongue which growing up on different soil
shaped itself to find delight in quite different
word-music? An epic poem may be trans-
lated with a measure of success because it
concerns itself-with deeds/though single, lines
of the great epics are often themselves com-
plete lyrics; while drama, because if it is
true to life its basis is the commonplace of
human speech, has a very decent chance of
being improved in a free rendering. Yet here
again the speakers rise to lyric heights under
stress of emotion, and the best lines can
never be represented by other words in any
language, though substituted lines may have
a similar force without attempting to convey
the same meaning. The play itself being the
thing, identity of action is more important
than identity of spoken detail." But the lyric
singer is the inner voice of the nation. You
will find England better in Falgrave’s
“Golden Treasury” than in any history ; and
if you want Australia you will get it far more'
truly in the songs of its singers than in any
book of statistics. The lyric cannot lie;.with-
out thinking about the tale, the singer tells
the whole subtle inner story.
D. M. W.
Literature and Advertisement
“When the complete set of Ballads lay
upon my desk, and I had carefully and criti-
cally read them through, I could hardly believe
my senses. Was it possible that to me, just
starting as a publisher, with doors not yet
open for business, such an unlooked-for piece
of good fortune had happened as the discovery
of this literary prize? I was amazed at my
good lucki’ These are the words of C. j.
De Garis in introducing' The Everlastin ’
Ballads by Harold Hansell; and from them
the reader is led to expect a feast. What he
actually gets, after nine ''pages of such
trumpeting, is a collection of poor
rhymes. The workmanship is crude, the
thought commouplace: there is no ! fresh-
ness and little color; the attempts at humor
never get to anything; the author has not
the skill to rouse real emotion; and neither
in manner nor in matter is there the true
Australian note. Yet around such work C.
J. De Garis can write in this strain
The history of “The Road to Glory'' is amazing.
To read it through, nothing seems to be forgotten—
it might well be the result of weeks of careful
thought and preparation.
Now 7 look at some of the wonderful thing
The kookaburra hunts the snake.
Lives, loves, and laughs with Life at stake,
He faces Death for Country’s sake,
And points the road to glory.
They tramp ! They tramp !
From way had: run and navvies-’ camp;
From, college, office, shop they stamp
And-pass along to glory;
Their jingling spurs and bayonets shine/
There’s laughter down the Khaki line.
The courage and the pace is -fine
Upon the road to glorm
That is the start; and it is not very much
worse as it goes along.' But C. J.
De Garis gets hysterical with delight over
things even cheaper than this. “Again and
again since hearing it,” he writes, “I have
studied those beautiful lines until the very
words seem to glow with living fire. From
whence came they? We only know, from
whose magic pen. but written with the pas-
sionate love within his heart for his ‘Angels,’
can we wonder that the words of this man
live?” That, as far as it means anything at
all, would be pretty extravagant if it re-
ferred to Victor Daley or Henry Kendall :
but here are the lines entitled “The Angels”:
Faithful to death!—you’ve said it!
Quick !- —as the lightning stroke,
Hearts—true as steel.
As they follow at heel,
, What do they care if you’re
Tired and footsore and hungry,
Gripped to the Boss like glue—
Say ! Wouldn’t'Life be living
With a woman half so true?
Look in their eyes for affection.
Knowledge, devotion and truth,
For the friends who won’t fade,
In Life’s sunshine or shade.
For the love that won’t leave you with youth,
Parsons, perhaps, don’t say it —-
Maybe ’tis beyond their ken, •
But—sheepdogs are angels from Heaven,
And save the souls o! men.
And that is claimed as the work of a “magic
pen”!
Harold Hansell seems to have had a vogue
during the war among reciters; and had his
(Continued on page 26.)


A
a
Saucepan,
Tinned
Enamelled
with Cover (No. 1251).
2 3 4 6 pints.
7/9 9/3 10/6 13/-
S 10 12 14 pints.
14/9 16/9 19/9 21/-
2 3 4 6 pints,
10/3 11/9 13/6 17/3
8 10 12 14 pints.
20/- 23/6 26/6 28/-
i-;
Cast-iron Oval
1252).
Tinned—
-26/6 32/- 43/6
1 8 10
63/- 72/- 86/-
Boilers (No.
5 6 gal.
51/- 58/-
12 14 gal.
102/- 117/-
Cast-iron Kettles, Tinned (No. 1256).
4 5 6 8 pints.
15/9 16/9 19/6 24/-
10 12 14 16 pints.
26/6 32/- 38/3 41/-
Cast-iron Kitcheners, Tinned (No. 1253).
2 3 4 5 6 8 10 gals.
56/- 75/- 111/-
Improved Cylinder
Churns (No. 1294).
No. 0 20/-
No. 1 22/0
No. 2 26/9
Syphon PocKef Fike
*»(,«) for theUM?* •
,rd *ellers, Ooq Stow rs ,
w *ltr in * dan
Pocket Filter —a
boon to the traveller,
man in the bush, boy-
scout. Purifies any
water. Drawn through
a mouthpiece... 3/9
0 j
Clyde Butter
Cooler' (patent).
Keeps butter firm,
fresh and sweet on
hottest days. Sizes—
lib., 3/.; 21b., 4/.;
Sib., 5/-
Preserving Jars —
Mason’s—Golden State.
Fruit season Special
Offer, lib. Jam Jars,
open top, 2/9 dozen.
(Send for Cool Com-
fort Catalogue.),
WATER
RICHT
AT THE
ROOTS
Intense Irrigator (Patent No. 6710/18).
A circular earthenware pot with per-
forations in lower half. Pots are sunk
in the garden beds at about eight-feef
intervals. Water and, liquid manure
are poured into them and thus fed to
the very roots of the plants by capil-
lary action. One gallon of moisture
applied by this method is better than
four gallons applied to the surface of
the soil, for EVERY DROP GOES
RIGHT TO THE ROOTS.
No. 1 No. 2. No. 3.
1/- 1/6 2/-
Angle Suspension Lamp, No. 262.
Antique Brass, 2 lights—clear globes,
opal tops . • 70/-
No. 392 —Oxidised Copper, etched
globes, opal tops, 3 lights.. 95/-
“The House
of Economy.”
Anthony Horderns’
for Unbeatable Values.
In addition to the opportunities this offering presents you to save
it gives you an insight into the varied character of our merchandise
and the unbeatable values that prevail at Australia’s largest retail
store. We would ask for no better advertisement than to have the
readers of this page really know our goods and the unequalled
values they represent. Make a comparison of our wares and values
with those of other stores—it will prove our claims to the utmost.
SHOPPING BY POST.
Anthony Horderns’ Mail Order
Department is organised and
equipped on lines that ensure of
complete satisfaction with every
order received.
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on Fashion Goods, aniily Drapery,
Men’s Wear, Jewellery, Electro-
plate, Boots, Shoes, and Fine Art
to any part of N.S.W., and to the
nearest port on Interstate and
Island orders.
Fowler’s Vacuum Fruit and Vegetable Bottling Outfit, No. 3.
Outfit Oval Steriliser to hold 18 bottles, and 18 bottles each Nos. 18 and 26.
Bottle Brush (1 bottle filled with fruit) 95/-
No. 1 Outfit, 55/-. No 2 Outfit, 72/6.
3
Enamelled Stew Pans
(No. 1257 A).
2 3 4 6 8 10 pints.
7/9 9/3 11/3 16/3 19/9 22/-
Air-O-Lite Lantern, 300
Candle-power. Protected from
the wind. Does not blow out
in a strong draught. Fount
capacity pint.. £4/12/6
Air-O-Lite Lam p —gives
300 Candle-power Light, burns
benzine, lights with a match.
Simple, safe. Gives steady,
bright light. Uses two small
mantles £5/5/_
Universal Food Storage Cooler,
designed to meet requirements of
householders outside the radius of
ice delivery.
No. I.—Overall Sizes —
Width. Depth. Height.
24in. 21in. 47in.
Provision
Chamber 22in. 19in. 26in.
£5/15/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
jTelephone: City 9440.


:
Of all Kodak dealers, and
Take a
KODAK
with you.
Extend your happy moments
into a lifetime’s pleasure by
saving them in Kodak pic-
tures.
Outings to the country and sea-
side, your holidays, pleasant
times amongst friends, your
home life, pets and pastimes,
all can contribute something
to a collection of happiness.
The 3a Autographic Kodak is for post-
card pictures 3% x 5j inches and is fitted
with every convenience for good picture-
making—-a camera we specially recom-
mend. Price £B/4/-. There are other
Kodaks from 54/6 to £2O/15/-;
Brownies, 14/6 to £5/15/-.
KODAK. ( Australasia) PTY LTD
• »
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queep- Street,
Brisbane ; The Valley ; '37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Delightful .music
delightfully rendered
His Master’s Voice” makes every home
an opera-house. Under its entrancing
spell the cares and worries of the day
are forgotten; the listener is swayed
by the stupendous art of the world’s
greatest singers and instrumentalists.
His Master’s Voice” offers the music of
the celebrities, and offers it in a way that
reveals all its original beauty.
It truly re-creates the tone, the volume, even the slightest change of
modulation.
Only the most perfect Instruments and Records bear the famous
‘‘His Master’s Voice” trade-mark. Look for it, therefore, as your
guarantee of the best that can be made.
J
His Master’s Voice
u
•^c-x
m
il
fli \
- H
4*l
»
V>
tin <((Q
K
•i/
3S
in
4L^ir^
9
Instruments range
in price from 11
guineas to 85
guineas.
His Master’s Voice”
Reg . Trade-mark .
Instrument Catalogue, complete Record Lists, and name
nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.


PINKETTES
_
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the teast
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.O.j Melbourne.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF
THE AGE.
37/6
-rv
37/6
Hand Embroiderer
See Daily Demonstrations at
MARCELLES, Pitt Street, and
W. T. WATERS & CO M LTD.
Free instruction given.
3
Change your
ageing grey
hair to a
deep wal-
nut color.
Simply ap-
plied. A s-
suredly harm-
less.
Get a packet to-day from your
chemist.
m
m
*
MEXICAN
WAINUT STAIN
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans fbe feetf) without scratching
lhe breath; hardens rbe gums
MADE
®s»
cv
IN
Mi
'xfJ
? Australia I
to Rocke
Ifyour or storekeeper
cannol" supply, send \/z> in stomps
ompsitt£ Co. Melbourne.
NEVER SAY DYE —SAY
i
1
■
m
m
mm
/•:;S
mmmMmk
O' ' •
n \W '(s>
«,.a V
f I I
THE ** TINTEX GIRL,” in her sporting clothes,
Is chic and pretty wherever she goes ;
At tennis or hockey or golf, the eye
Of the passing male she takes —and why:
Well, just because she’s bright and sweet,
Her clothes are old, but they look so neat,
She keeps them new, and the cost is small,
For TINTEX DYE transforms them all.
TINTEX,
the famous Cold Water Dye, is ideal for
Sports Coats, Mufflers, or other Woollen
Garments. It is clean, easy to use, and
lasting. It harms neither the hands nor
the material. It is<pSed exactly the same as
blueing, and is unequalled for dyeing Silks
or Lingerie. Obtainable everywhere in a
large variety of shades. Ask for Tintex.
Sold Everywhere for 9d. per packet.
The New Season’s Color, Old Gold, now ready for delivery.
DVTEX
the All-British fast boiling Dye,
for dyeing Silks, Cottons, and
Heavy Woollens. Does for heavy
fabrics what Tintex does for
lighter material.
DYTEX
Price : I 0y 2 d. per Packet.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reverie.
Turning my thoughts like leaves of light
In an old book of Night,
I dreamed I walked the magic ways
Of lost tumultuous days.
Soft sounds that crept along the dark
Paused on a murmurous “Hark.”
I heard the birds of Ilium sing
More sweet than Love in Spring.
And by a temple’s columned stone,
Tenderly pale and lone,
A poet musing of a maid
Lowered the lute he played.
I knew the maid. Her eyes, her hair
And the soft throat and fair
Bloomed at his song, t met his kiss
Of unimagined bliss.
“Most dear,” he whispered while I smiled
Like a dream-quickened child.
And up from Simois there came
The god-cry of his name.
And then I heard grey oars plash-splash,
Arms clang and clash and crash,
And, fugitive, through flying cries,
Kind sobs that shook chaste eyes.
The twilight tread of distance died.
Pure as a Eoman bride
I saw the Forum gleam amid
Old lies new lyings hid.
And in the Senate soul on soul
Breathed dreams of Rome’s great goal,
While Thought, fleeing the speed of Speech,
Tripped minds deep-trained in each.
I felt a hand upon my sleeve.
Dusk held a touch of eve.
My woman-being thrilled and stirred
At the fond voice I heard.
But sudden swords split into fire
The love-notes of the lyre,
And all along the Appian Way
Thundered a world’s dismay.
I heard the hard, sharp hoof-beats ring,
Blows crowd and bite and sting.
The smothering darkness folded in
Like a cloak, hot as sin.
And now I walked a .king-man’s queen,
Two rows of maids between.
Great tapestries that talked in thread
Of wars and ’heroes dead.
I dreamed I walked the magic ways
Of lost tumultuous day.
And all the storied ages through
I found my soul in you.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Magic Carpet.
I fell on bitter days, on times austere;
My friends had left me heartless and un-
true ;
The past had buried all I cherished dear,
And Hope had faded wholly from my view;
I lit my lamp one eve as darkness grew
And lo! like clouds that scud before the gale
My sorrows fled afar —I trod anew
The Magic Carpet of the Master’s Tale.
And that fair queen who fell upon the spear
To save her spouse by iEgean waters blue,
I heard her laugh in silver tones and clear
As in the days ere grief her smiling slew ;
I joined the Golden Hind—as brave a crew
We made as ever bade the Spaniard quail;
Far sped my cares the while beneath me
flew
The Magic Carpet of the Master’s Tale.
And midnight showed us haunts obscene and
drear,
Where warlocks wild their spells unholy
drew;
At morn the Sirens’ Isle swam singing near,
We heard sweet Portia rate the hapless
Jew; '
Through stately portals and in dark pur-
lieu
We wandered, lured by flashing eyes and
veil ;
How swift it cleft the air or skimmed the
dew —
The Magic Carpet of the Master’s Tale !
Envoy.
Why will ye prate of witches’ potent brew
That fills the soul with fancies wild and
pale,
To such as me? I tell you once I knew
The Magic Carpet of the Master’s Tale.
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.
My Mother.
He gathered all the dewdrops from the grass.
The silver-tinted shading of the skies,
The rays from sparkling pebbles from the
pass,
And made my mother’s eyes.
With poppies from fair gardens of the East.
Sweet honeysuckle golden at the tips,
A budding rose with petals shapely creased,
He made my mother’s lips.
From .green September’s whispering voice of
Spring,
When all the valleys waken and rejoice
Through laughing brooks and happy birds
that sing,
He made my mother’s voice.
He gathered kindness, hope and faith that
holds
Forever to the better, sweeter part,
And, wraDping all about with love’s clear
folds.
He made my mother’s heart.
N.S.W.
ADELE HONGSON.


DELGO-LIGHT
Electricity for Anyone Anywhere
The first Cost of
DELCO-LIGHT
is only temporary
while the benefits
are perpetual.
m
ON
U
■Pros
I; ■ ps® «
m
N-
80 CANDLE POWER
c or :
1
r
.
*3
*•>
\
m
»
■
MS
it*
■ :>
m
SB
11
HH
IMBSIXI
'
- Hi
i
*
: ■
wm
I
:
■3
r '"P
HR
I i
Ke
■I
re
A Quart of Kerosene used in DELCO-LIGHT will give
four times as much light as when burned in an oil lamp.
DELCO-LIGHT will furnish
plenty of clear, bright electric
light for any part of your home
or outhouses. It will also pro-
vide power for operating all
your small machinery.
hours saved turning cream separator
it » churning
v „ ironing
*t » washing
„ „ caring for lamp and tanks
18 hours per week
There is a trained DELCO-LIGHT man near you who can figure
your requirements and advise you as to the size plant you need.
N.S.W.—WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD., Kent Street, SYDNEY.
VIC—WARBURTON,FRANKI LTD.,BourkeSt.,MELBOURNE.
Q’LAND—SMELLIE & CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
S. A,-PARSONS & ROBERTSON LTD. Grenfell St., ADELAIDE.
W.A.-GEO. WILLS & CO., PERTH.
TAS.—W. F. &E. A. STEWART, Cameron Street, LAUNCESTON.
N.Z--A. D. RILEY & CO., Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON.
FARMERS’ CO-OP ASSOCIATION, CHRISTCHURCH.
W. A. CROWLE LTD., 161-163 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, Distributors.
ON
Qua
ro
M
ONE
CANDLE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post a* a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2127.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1920.
Price 9d.
MARS AND CUPID.
"The divorce courts of N. S. Wales and Victoria are suffering from the same congestion as those of England and France.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of . the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS. ,
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 l(ts. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part qf the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political , Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stumps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus : and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.Jj;
E. T. Hole, Hvlerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, l/2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York'City; Golden Gate News Agency, 719
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of Ttie Bulletin. ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands , 10os., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., tjd.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3id. ; elsewhere, I/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz,
j^e^xzHe^x//L.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1920.
THE GREAT BLOT.
the text.
If Bolshevism of the Russian type is estab-
lished in Australia the vote of the foreigner
Petek Simonoff, Bolshevik consul, once
gaoled here as a dangerous and disturbing
alien, will count for more than the votes of
all the doctors in all the streets of all the
cities and all the towns. It will count for
more than the voteq of all the clergy, from
the R.C. and Anglican archbishops doicn to
the bushiest Bush Brother. It will count
for more than the votes of dll the trading
classes, from the 2J{-storey universal pro-
vider to the one-storey dealer with a kitchen
behind. And it will count for more than
the votes of university professors, artists,
scientists, lawyers, book-writers, and many
other people. Peter, the alien miner, will
be qualified to rule, while all these real Aus-
tralians will be disgualified.
THE SERMON.
On a recent Sunday Brisbane saw a notable
gathering of Bolsheviks and other revolu-
tionists. Their attitude was defined when
the first speaker said: “I stand for the re-
volution ; it must come, whatever bloodshed
may ensue,” and when he and subsequent
one's held up Soviet Russia, as the model to
be followed. Quite a number of Russians
of the baser sort were there, gnashing their
various teeth as much as they dared at the
land which gives them protection, free-
dom of speech and a basic wage.
The State police didn’t interfere much,
which possibly suggests that the police
would be better under Federal con-
trol. The foundation of Soviet rule in Rus-
sia is that the ruling body, or the body that
registers the decrees of the Commissioners,
consists of Workers, Soldiers and Peasants’
deputies. Aliens and boys of IS have votes.
Wholesale disqualification of classes naturally
opens an otherwise impossible career to the
tub-thumper, the street-corner or Domain
bellower, and the teeth-gnasher. The only
qualified competitor for office against him is
the silent and ox-like toiler with no more
than the leader’s education, and wholly with-
out his volubility and dynamic energy, and
he doesn’t count.
The new gospel means power for a type
that yearns for power—the type which
evolves the captain of the push, the slave-
driver and the forecastle bully, and which
craves, like other people, for a wider sphere
of action. It is this instinct for power, in
a more, refined form, which makes N. 8.
Wales Attorney-General McTiernan leave
trial by jury out of his anti-profiteering
schemes. It is also the basis of the
policy of cutting down the taller intellectual
poppies by disqualification, in accordance
with which the Labor Caucus ejects its men
of brains one by one till, through the clear-
ing of the surrounding forest, mere herbs
like Lang and Storey and Edwards and
Huxiiam become features of the landscape.
And Bolshevism shows a sort of wisdom in
manufacturing billets for its friends; in fact,
the conviction that it will supply an easy
job for friend, provided he is violent
enough, explains to a great extent why it
has friends. In Queensland they found
places for thousands of new supporters on
the railways, which is the reason why the
railways ceased to earn money ; and in N. S.
Wales Ministerial positions were found for
no less, than 13 applicants, though one had
to be given the new Motherhood job and the
Premier had to be lgft without any job at
all.
Bolshevism was born in that great, black,
ignorant blot which forms a sort of stagnant
centre in the Eurasian continent. West of
the blot lies Scandinavia, which into
the life and history of the wftrld very early,
conquering, exploring, navigating, making
poetry of a sort and religion of a sort, and
sending soldiers like llarprada as far as
Constantinople before the Norman Conquest
days. West also lies-Germany, which never
lacked brains, even though it might be short
of table manners and conscience. South-
west, before the inroad of Bulgarian and
Turkish savagery, lay the Greeks, the most
dazzling race in history. Away to the south
is Persia, which at least made much poetry,
some art, some romance, helped to make
Scripture, supplied the world with a mag-
nificent example of impei’ial organisation
in very disorganised times, and invented a
religion which was an improvement on those
that went before. South also lies India,
which supplied the world with two great
creeds, the Taj Mahal and other sermons in
stone, which wrote religious books about
1000 years b.c. —books that still live—and
raced Egypt in civilisation in the days when
Antiquity was cutting its first tooth. And
to the south-east is China, which supplied
Confucius and crockery and canals, and
turned out religions and literature galore,
and, like Greece and India, had its own
schools of architecture, to say nothing of a
school of painting which dispensed with per-
spective. Within this semi-cir.cle of light was
the Blot which gradually consolidated into
Russia, but remained an ignorant, backward
Blot all the time. Among the things it did
not furnish to the world were a graceful
mythology, a religion, a definite school of
painting, sculpture, science, architecture,
philosophy-, medicine or surgery, or a new
departure in poetry or literature. It in-
vented no military or naval tactics,
nothing even so comparatively primitive as
the phalanx or the legion; and, unlike the
Australian aborigine, with his boomerang,
it didn’t devise one unusual or remarkable
weapon of war. Nor has it to its credit
that it enriched mankind with an example
of orderly government. It can’t even show
useless marvels like the Pyramids or the
temples of Karnak or the columns of Baal-
bec. Its contributions to useful invention
have been .almost nil. No other habitable
area in the world shows so little in the way
of letters, culture or interesting tradition to
the square mile as habitable Russia. It has
never even revealed any very definite desire
for better things, for though it has had palace
revolutions in plenty, and lately one city
revolution of a sort, popular upheavals have
been unknown. A very few years ago, in the
days of Father John and Rasputin— in
fact, up to 1917 —it was still a land of
monks and myths and miracle-mongers. Now
it poses, or it is posed, as a land without a
faith and with a "solid resolve that no other
place shall have one.
Three years ago the great Blot dated fur-
ther back, save for what it had borrowed
from live people, than Confucius in philo-
sophy, than Virgil in poetry, than the
Hebrew Assembly of the Tribes in the art of
self-government, and than the witch of Endor
in superstition. Now, after three years of
apprenticeship in debt-repudiation, famine,
compulsory labor, compulsory military
service, depreciated paper money, and
other unpleasant circumstances, it arro-
gates to itself tlie role of world
reformer and world teacher. That is to say,
its owners do this for it. The great passive
majority doesn’t arrogate—lit never did. It
would be absurd to suppose that there is not
some danger. The Russian, like the bulldog;
fights well for his proprietor; he always has
a proprietor, being a valuable animal. He
doesn’t inquire too closely how he got him,
and he doesn’t investigate his character save
under great provocation. He used to wake
in the morning and find that Petrograd had
supplied him, by reason of a murder, with a
new Czar overnight, and he always accepted
the situation. Lately it supplied him over-
night with a new Constitution and Pro-
visional Government, mostly made up of men
of foreign training and of partly alien race
-—a Workers, Soldiers and Peasants’ Govern-
ment of individuals who were none of these.
Though there was unusual flurry about the
change he accepted that also. The new
Government, being in some respects 1300
years behind the time, is possessed with
Mahomet’s idea of world-dominion and com-
pulsory world-conversion. In one respect
it is further back than Mahomet, for he had
a religion, while Lenin’s religion is the
abolition of religion as well as 1 of property
and personal freedom.
A possibility now lies in the fact that the
new creed may be adopted by races of more
initiative than the people of the Blot where
it Was invented, just as the Turks, some 1500
mifes away from Mecca, took up Moham-
medanism and carried it as a ruling faith
to regions that its original inventors never
dreamed of. It is with this end in view that
Leninism sends its missionaries to far places
like Australia and America. The inducement
they offer is exactly that which converted
the Turks —that the ignorant, dull, lazy and
ferocious (the Turks were all four) should
possess the goods, chattels and persons of
intellectuals like the Greeks and Persians,
should make the intellectuals work for them,
and should enjoy the pleasure, dear to brutal
minds, of insulting them, treading on them
and annexing their women. When one con-
siders how long and how widely a well-
organised handful of Turks trod on the best
lands in Christendom it is well to take de-
cisive measures with the new generation of
blood-drinking missionaries. A wide Bol-
shevik upheaval looks improbable, but the
break up of Europe, the advent of the Dark
Ages, the extinction of the lamp for 1000
years and the coming of the Mohammedans
looked' even more so to the world which
Diocletian left so neat and tidy and swept
and garnished.
IRISH BLATHER AND WELSH
ARROGANCE.
If it is right that a member of Parliament
should forfeit his seat for misrepresenting
public opinion and talking rubbish, then
Hugh Mahon might well be so disciplined
by his constituents for his recent assertions
(1) that he looked forward to an Australian
Republic, (2) that he rejoiced to read of the
violent death of certain “spies and informers”
in Ireland. There were plenty of republicans
in Australia in the days when George Dibbs
roamed the land. The policy was safe
enough to be reasonable then. But the only
active republicans in our midst at this time
of day are simply not Australians. They
may be Japs or Chinese or Internationalists;
but normal citizens with a personal pride in
Australia’s achievements and an ambition
to see it remain a free white man’s country
they are not.
* * * #
Mahon’s remarks about Ireland mis-
represent the sentiments of the Common-
wealth on that subject, too. They don’t
even represent Ireland, being precisely
the observations on which the “spies
and informers” referred to by him
depend for a livelihood. The type of person
who utters them is the despair of Griffith ’
and the rest of the responsible Sinn Fein
leaders; on the other hand they are the de-
light of the agents provocateurs and their
employers, who are looking for arguments to
justify reprisals. If the member for Kal-
goorlie had wanted to make out a case for
Irish freedom, instead of casting the largest
possible quantity of mud on the cause, he
need have gone no further than the current
English newspapers. A section of the Aus-
tralian press and a few Australian politicians
may view what is happening in Ireland with
equanimity, but England, as spoken for by
its great papers, from the Times downwards,
is ashamed of the situation. The Times has
condemned the “saturnalia of reprisals” in-
stigated by the Government. J. L. Ham-
mond, of the Daily News, wrote the other
day:—
Ireland wants liberty; we want security. Is it
impossible for statesmanship to reconcile the two, or
are we going to plead “military necessity” for dis-
honoring all the promises we made during, the war?
We have either to do the bold thing, as General
Maurice has urged in these columns, or to do the
odious things that have been associated with tyranny
at all times and in all places. .
And the Tory Daily Mail remarked
(29/8/’2O) :-
Ireland to-day is being governed by secret tribunals
and disciplined by organised violence. In this coun-
try of contradictions there is the strange paradox of
rebels represented by official Sinn Fein seeking to
promote law and order, and of the constitutional
Government represented by the military authority
using the weapons of barbarism to enforce the ethics
of civilisation.
Also a section of the Unionist party in the
House of Commons has broken away from
the Coalition on the reprisals issue. In short,
Maiion might have talked sense at Rich-
mond—reasonable protest with which most
Australians are in agreement—instead of
■soap-box fustian.
* * * *
But what, anyhow, has the Hughes Gov-
ernment to do with the matter? Only one
member has been expelled from a representa-
tive House in the whole history of British
Parliamentary Government for the crime
which the Prime Minister alleges against
Mahon, and in corresponding circumstances,
John Wilkes was ousted from the
House of Commons many times—and as
often re-elected —for seditious libel. But
he was a fugitive from justice and had been
convicted by the King’s Bench. Maiion
has not been convicted of anything, much
less outlawed. In any event it is not his
matter which is at fault, apparently, but
his manner. All he has! done, according to
Mr. Hughes himself, has been to get
between the wind and the latter’s new-found
delicacy in dialectical matters: —
Mr. Mahon naturally sympathises with Ireland,
and had he expressed his sympathy in temperate
language none xvould have taken exception, but when
he uses language which is so vile and shocking and
outraging to the feelings of those who do not think
with him, then he has done something which is in-
compatible with his membership of this House and
with his citizenship as a loyal Australian.
So that it comes to this: the electors of
Australia no longer enjoy even that limited
freedom of choice in the matter of their repre-
sentatives which party government and the
pre-selection system have left them. M's.P.
hold their seats, and draw the £lOOO a year
which Mr. Hughes recently obtained for
them, on sufferance only. If they forget
themselves and say in or out of the House,
or are reported by a possibly hostile' news-
paper as having said, things which happen
to shock or outrage the feelings of Mr.
Hughes, then the machine may be set to
work with fatal consequences to them. The
ancient principle of British justice which
pre-supposes the innocence of an accused
person till he has been convicted in a court
of law, is waived in favor of the much older
Venetian arrangement under which anyone
was liable to be condemned on the say-so of
a more or less irresponsible stranger. It
is the complement and natural corollary of
that government by regulation which the
Commonwealth has experienced at the 'hands
of W. M. Hughes for years past. The country
is to be dictated to by the executive in
respect not only of its private affairs, but of
its public men also. And that is a concep-
tion of government which has been swal-
lowed by no British community worth its
salt since Charles I.’s head fell at White-
hall. ~ , . - ■
LABOR AND AN OLD TRACK.
“Only about 8 per cent, of the votes polled at the
Queensland liquor referendum were for State man-
agement. In the northern township of Babinda,
where there is a Government hotel, 482 persons
voted and not more than 20 declared for the policy
of which that pub is an expression.”— Queensland
correspondent.
These are arresting facts, for nationalisa-
tion of the liquor traffic has been the policy
of the Labor party all over Australia for 20
years. The plank has been inserted in Labor
platforms with such unbroken regularity
that the adhesion of the rank and file of
Labor has been taken for granted. Yet the
first time the thing is put to the test it is
shown beyond possibility of dispute that
Labor policy does not represent working-
class opinion. Nationalisation is decisively
defeated, principally by Labor votes. Labor
electorates with experience of State hotels
register enormous majorities against “back-
ing the honesty of a man behind a beer-
engine.” Other Labor constituencies declare
with like emphasis that they don’t want
Government ownership in their own districts
or anywhere else. In effect, a body of elec-
tors who are supposed to be socialistic have
been offered a further instalment of State
socialism, and have uncompromisingly re-
jected it. It is a striking circumstance, and
may conceivably have important conse-
quences. It certainly warrants the belief
that the Australian worker is weakening
on State socialism as a policy—that is, if
he ever consciously adopted it.
* * * *
Since the Labor party came into promi-
nence a tradition has grown up that the toil-
ing masses had a craving for Government
ownership. In that faith fluent and ambi-
tious young men met periodically at Labor
conferences and demanded the “nationalisa-
tion” of this, that and the other thing.
Many of them got into Parliament and were
numerous enough to form Ministries. Then
began the process of “nationalising” meat-
shops and fishshops, pubs and sawmills,
brickworks and implement factories and a
swarm of other tinpot enterprises, in addi-
tion to railways, waterworks and other
public utilities, which are legitimate examples
of public ownership; and the process, car-
ried to riotous lengths, has had calamitous
results. The Labor party had not a mon-
opoly of this craze for State capitalism.
Liberal Governments practised it as well as
Labor Governments, though not to the same
extent. They, too, were under the impres-
sion that the wage-earners yearned for the
multiplication of Government inutilities —in
current jargon, “the extension of the econo-
mic functions of the State” —and hastened to
provide the article, actuated by the same
unworthy desire of votes. In the hands of
these mob-flattering Governments even rail-
ways and waterworks were degraded to the
level of considerations offered to pur-
chasable electorates in exchange for their
votes. These experiments in nationalisation
have been going on for a quarter of a cen-
tury, and the fruits are plain for all men
to see. They have added prodigiously to
the public debt. They have horribly con-
gested and centralised the business of govern-
ment. They have created huge bodies of
State employees whose mass-vote is a con-
stant menace. They have been a. fertile
source of strikes and other forms of discon-
tent, for in the nature of things some sec-
tions of the oyergrown. and unwieldy public
service can extort better treatment than
other sections, and in the prevailing impe-
cuniosity and demand for increases there
isn’t enough money to go round. The recent
strike of teachers and civil servants in West-
ralia and the present turmoil in the Com-
monwealth departments, where thousands of
capable officers are toiling for £3 12s. a
week, have removed •the last vestiges of the
pathetic superstition that the State is “the
ideal employer.” It is significant that the
solidest ana most financial of the States,
the State with the smallest per capita debt
and the most contented public service, is
Victoria —Victoria, which never had a Labor
Government, except for five minutes, and
has never gone in much for State socialism.
And looking back over the last 20 years the
conviction forces itself that the Labor party
would have achieved better results had it
dropped nationalisation in favor of co-opera-
tion and attacked land-monopoly, and sin-
ister accumulations of wealth in general, by
a scientific employment of the taxing power.
* * * *
The vote at the Queensland referendum
may represent a revolution' of opinion. It
is more probably the first authentic utter-
ance of a class which has hitherto been con-
tent to let others do its thinking and speak-
ing for it. In either case it is a radical
departure from the policy which Labor legis-
lators have been following since the nineties
of last century, and a broad hint that the
party has been travelling on the wrong track.
THE INDEPENDENCE OF MOSES.
To recover his homeland Israel has waited
for 2641 years since he lost sovereignty over
the biggest part of it; for 2507 jmars since
he lost real sovereignty over the small re-
mainder of it; for 1850 years since the final
shadow of royalty flickered out with the
eclipse of the last nominal deputy-assistant
spectral under-king Agrippa II.; and for
about 1200 years since practically the last of
the nation left for foreign parts to avoid
the Saracens. It has been a long wait. Now
the Kingdom of Judah—the patrimony of the
monarchs from Rehoboam to Nebuchad-
nezzar —is in process of reconstruction.
And already doubts are arising as to whether
the triumph was worth the trouble,


and whether the craving for it hasn’t been
rather artificial, after all, like the craving for
Ireland by Irishmen who weren’t born there,
and have never taken the trouble-to go there,
and haven’t the least idea what the place
is like. v
The Hebrew tradition isn’t all it might
be on close inspection. In a large, hazy,
golden, glorious way it means or meant the
restoration of the kingdom of David. David
ruled first over two tribes, those of Judah
and Benjamin, minus Jerusalem, which was
a Canaanitish principality till quite a late
day. His kingdom expanded till it spread
to or beyond Damascus in the north and
down to Egypt in the south. But this patch
of greatness, supported .by hired foreign
troops, lasted only some 30 or 40 years, and
the chance of recovering David’s ephemeral
conquests are small. Too many races have
better claims based on longer possession-
-20 times longer possession in some cases.
That leaves the very small territory of the
Tribes to squabble over —13 tribes when
Joseph was cut in two, but Levi was dis-
persed as a wandering priesthood, and Simeon
dropped through a hole and vanished, so 11
remained on the map.
Judah and Benjamin, the recognised map-
Hebrews of to-day, represented roughly one-
sixth or one-eighth of the area. (The east-
ern borders of the area were always shifty
and deceptive, especially towards the top of
the map.) It wasn’t the most fertile phrt,
by a long way ; but it contained Jerusalem,
and for 73 years (and no more) Jerusalem
was the capital of all the Tribes. Up to
the time of Saul each tribe managed or mis-
managed or neglected its own affairs, though
the big tribes doubtless bossed the small
ones. Dictators arose with intervals between
and ran the show during their lifetimes. They
appeared, like Mexican presidents, on no
fixed plan, and were of no fixed tribe. When
the Kingdom was established under Saul,
the man of misfortune, the ancestors of the
modern Jews had an interest in it as two
partners out of 11. When it broke asunder,
by divine command, after 120 years, they
lost the joint interest, but retained the free-
hold of their own one-sixth or one-eiglith.
They never permanently conquered the whole
of even that, for the Philistines, subdued by
David, reasserted themselves, and their .strip
cut off Judah from the sea. It is a question if
they aren’t there yet. The piratical long-
shoremen of Jaffa and their kin southward
are sometimes identified as the old lot, and
they look bad enough to be the real article.
There was a shadowy but picturesque revived
State beginning with the Maccabees' (166 b.c. ),
turned into a kingship by Judas llyrcanus
Aristobulus (107 b.c.), squashed or made
tributary by the Romans (63 8.c. ), and lin-
gering a while after that in a tributary or
subordinate condition. At its best its inde-
pendence was questioned. Even Herod the
Great received his crown as a gift, retained
it on sufferance, and never held the w'hole
of David’s property. And so far was the old
nationality from being restored that in New
Testament times the Samaritans, whose ter-
ritory (once Ephraim and Manasseh) began
a few miles north of Jerusalem, were
regarded as foreigners and cursed by devout
Jew's with a solid curse.
If the effective occupation of Jerusalem is
to be taken as a test, the Hebrew', since his
first advent in the land, has been much
longer away from it than in it. He wasn’t
the aborigine in the sense of being the first
known settler. He wasn’t to any great
extent the builder of the towns. And Pales-
tine isn’t even the birthplace of his religion
in the sense that Arabia is the birthplace
of Mohammedanism, or India of Buddhism,
or New York State of Joseph Smithism
which developed into Brigham Youngism.
Abraham brought the essentials of the faith
from Chaldea by the Persian Gulf, and
details were added at Sinai, which was in
foreign territory, much further south than
the terminus at Beerslieba.
A Zionist dream has been the recovery of
the brisk little empire-of-a-day which David
created with his standing army of foreigners
to aid the tumultuous local levies. Failing
that, the idea has been that the two remain-
ing and identifiable tribes out of the 11 on
the map (or 12 if the two halves of Manas-
seh are reckoned separately) should have not
only their own bit but that of the nine or
ten which passed out of history 2621 years
ago. The Allies, not caring to reopen so
old a question, with the possibility of having
to supply a standing garrison to prevent the
question shutting again, propose to recon-
struct the . old Kingdom of Judah and Ben-
jamin, with a bit of Dan and the port of
Jaffa (Jonah’s Joppa) thrown in by way
of interest, and say that justice stops there.
Even in that restricted area the struggle with
the non-Jewish folk is likely to be severe.
It has the Mediterranean to the west, the
wilderness of Judah and the Dead Sea to
the east, and the desert where Simeon dis-
appeared to the south. It isn’t specially
fertile, and looking from Jerusalem to the
Dead Sea (it is possible to look half-way
aci’oss the country) the bare limestone knobs
suggest terraces of skulls.
The place would probably afford a bare
living to 12| per cent, of the Race. Yet
more than one Government already talks
of intimating to its local Jew that, having
now a country of his ow'n. he has become
an alien in its country, just like any other
foreigner, without a vote or a Parliamentary
qualification, and liable to be sent home if
the space he occupies is wanted for other
purposes. If that sort of thing is liable
to happen to the Jew whose ancestors left
the Old Country perhaps 1850 years ago, the
establishment of the Irish Republic opens
a bleak prospect to the Irishman who, though
born out of Ireland, has obtrusively main-
tained his nationality. His parents, left
the Old Country much more recently than
1850 years ago.
J. E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Labor and Federal Reform.
A new Federal Convention is more or less
in sight, the object being to repair Aus-
tralia’s defective charter of union,, and in the
natural course of things Constitutions begin
to blow about. The Bulletin published
one of its own a few months ago. Nothing
very definite has appeared yet from any
National, Progressive or Country party, but
the Australian Labor party has issued a
draft programme. Doubtless it is better to
have a poor programme than none at all,
and some of the intentions are good; but
the bad ones predominate and. the document
bears signs of casualness, haste and lack
of a big Australian outlook. Some of the
proposals are as follows, if the party hasn’t
been very badly reported:—
The Commonwealth to take over all existing State
debts. The Commonwealth Government, as far as
possible, to collect all revenue, thus obviating the
expense of duplication in collecting taxes.
The second part is good. As regards the
first, which is also good, there is a shirking
of two important points: (1) If the Com-
monwealth takes over existing debts it should
also have power to levy an extra sinking-
fund tax on the States with big liabilities,
the tax to be continued till equality is
reached. A mere lumping together would
raise Victoria’s burden by £2l 10s. per in-
habitant and lower Westralia’s by £4l per
inhabitant. Three States would gain a good
deal. One would be little affected and two
would be almost ruined. (2) It is essential
that the separate borrowing powers of the
States should be stopped, else old State
debts would be taken over to-day and new
ones started to-morrow.
The Commonwealth to be divided into 31 States
(possibly 30 is meant), with uniform Constitutions
provided by and alterable by the Commonwealth,
and to have small local Legislatures elected on the
Federal franchise and electoral rolls.
It is all good save for two things. One-third
of the Commonwealth is practically uninhabit-
able through drought, just as one-third of
Canada is through frost. This section has
no more use for the frills of Statehood than
Canada’s North-West Territories have. It
should be a Federal property under a bronzed
Commissioner, some hardy police, and a staff
not for the purpose of counting votes, but
to look after condensers, tanks and relief
expeditions. The other 2,000,000 square
miles don’t want quite 31 Governments for
5,000,000 people as yet. An idea might be
to cut the habitable parts of the four east-
ern mainland States into 10 to start with
(Queenslaftd three; N. S. Wales three; Vic-
toria two; and S. Aus. two). Then the
north of the Territory and possibly a bit of
the north-west of W.A. might be a State
and southern Westralia two. With 14 self-
governing divisions to begin with (unless
Tasmania wanted to be divided, which is
hardly likely) a foundation would be laid.
To hack the country into States, desert and
all, is simpler on paper, but they would be
strangely-shaped States, like snakes and
salamanders, if the desert was fairly appor-
tioned among the fertile bits that would
have to administer it and pay its losses.
Abolition of the Senate. Federal control solely
by a House of Representatives containing 100 mem-
bers, each electorate to have as nearly as possible
an equal number of electors.
The Senatorial idea of equal representation
of States should be held sacred. It is the
only thing that prevents the overwhelming
mass of authority being concentrated into
about one-twelfth of the country in the south-
eastern corner. Under the proposed system
State Governments would have no powers save
such as the one Federal House didn’t take
away, and three-fourths of the power of that
House would centre round two or three cities
which have treated even the rights of their
own people outside the city radius with con-
siderable scorn, and would do the. same with
the rights (and also the finances) of other
States. Just now the burning desire of the
Grafton and Armidale end of N. S. Wales
is to get clear of N. S. Wales but to remain
inside Federated Australia. Under the pro-
posed system the burning desire and only
hope of three-fourths of Australia would pro-
bably be to get away from Australia alto-
gether. The official Labor seheme, despite all
its professed decentralisation, would make
Australia more centralised than ever. If the
division was even into 25 parts instead of
31, each with 200,000 people to begin with
and with four members in the one and only
House, then Sydney and Melbourne together
would count for about four times as much
as tliree-fourths of Australia —say, everything
from a little way west of Adelaide and north
of Rockhampton. And when this south-east-
corner Legislature collected all revenue the
chance of three-quarters of Australia would
bo poor. The plan would be the end of the
Federal system, which assumes that the
country has two capacities. In one it is a
solid body electing a Parliament. In the
other it is a body of States, each sending an
embassy to a bigger one, the suzerain; and
the size of the State doesn’t regulate the size
of the ambassador. It isn’t considered that
because Russia is large and Portugal small
the Russian ambassador should be Byd. high
and the Portuguese Bin. vertically. Hence the
idea of equal representation—an idea which
is universal save in two instances: that of
Canada, with its Senate of life nominees, and
that of Imperial Germany, which burst. In
the lack of better examples the project for
concentrating practically all authority in the
big places is unconvincing.
The Folly of Substituting Good Works
for Work.
Every now and then a clergyman bounds
into his pulpit and proclaims that the cities
of Australia are like unto Sodom and Gomor-
rah. Sometimes it is a mere general howl
unsupported by documents, but occasionally
the holy man mentions that lie has person-
ally applied his eye to the keyhole—at dance-
halls, theatres and the like—and is in a posi-
tion, accordingly, to speak with authority.
The conclusion at which all these divines
arrive is that the race, unless it stops sin-
ning and starts going to church, is doomed
to ruin and extinction. They point to/the
Cities of the Plain, to Pompeii and Her-
culaneum, and, most popular example of
all, to Imperial Rome. There are fallacies
that don’t matter and call for no challenge.
But the reiterated suggestions that a nation
can either become or remain great by being
moral, and that it is personal irreligion and
wickedness which hasten the downfall, in-
stead of laziness, extravagance and a disin-
clination either to fight or to prepare to do
so —these suggestions are untrue and can only
do harm. Rome fell, and it had been corrupt
for some time beforehand. It had hlso become
irreligious in the sense that the simple beliefs
and ceremonies of the Saturnian age no
longer appealed to the prosperous city-
people. But in hundreds of other ages and
countries the same manifestations have been
present without anything of a disastrous
nature happening. England has never been
so cheerfully licentious and pagan as it was
after the Restoration. France was never
so profligate as under Louis XIV. Nothing
untoward occurred to either country. In
the 18th century the cult of the virtuous
young girl was at least as remote from the
social life of England and France as that
of the virtuous young man is from our own
period. At the same time the national
church was a business in the one country
and a byword in the other. In England
after about a hundred years of government
by drunkards like the Pitts, thieves like
Walpole, and kings who paraded their
mistresses coram populo —examples which
were followed inevitably by members of the
rank and file of the nation to the best of
their ability—the path was open to the
Union and to the creation of the vastest
Empire in history. Simultaneously France,
after cremating its Feudal system in the fires
of Revolution, marched behind the first
Napoleon, who possessed neither religious
nor moral principles, to the position of the
world’s first military power. France was
deposed by Germany, then reputedly an
extremely moral and religious power; and
now Germany—no more immoral or irreli-
gious than it ever was —lies in ruins. What
was it that ruined Rome? Not that Rome’s
Pilates limited their religious practices to
a mild interest in the prophecies of some
Etruscan haruspex or the casting of a horo-
scope ; not that the morals of the people had
become almost as bad as those of the Greeks
in the latter’s prime. The ruin of Rome
began when it stopped working, relied on
wealth procured from foreign lands, and
finally lost even the will and capacity to
defend itself. England has held its head
up for 10Q0 years, through periods of corrup-
tion and virtue alike, because it has never
yet lacked national spirit—implying pre-
paredness either at sea or on land or both—
and' the energy to produce wealth.* The
moral factor had nothing to do with the
recent triumph of France over the hereditary
enemy, except inasmuch as Germany began
the war at a moral disadvantage. Not cor-
ruption but an inadequate navy and an un-
favorable geographical situation relatively to
the lines on which the war developed brought
disaster on the Germans in the .last resort.
Australia may become as virtuous as a young
ladies’ seminary and as profoundly religious
as Belgium has been during all the years
since it first became the cockpit off Europe:
but if its inhabitants shirk military service, if
they are too niggardly to own an adequate
navy, and if they are too languid to build
up those industries which will alone attract
population, then it is doomed. It does not
assist the cause of righteousness for the
clergy to misrepresent the position in this
connection. It merely helps to create the
fatal impression that to secure national pro-
gress and stability leisurely things like
churchgoing and good works are satisfactory'
substitutes for hard graft.
Confiscation in N. S. Wales.
The supremely clumsy N. S. Wales Land
Bill is loaded in so many barrels that it is
hard to say where it will go off first. These
are some of the explosive features: —
Every property in the Eastern and Central Divi-
sions except the really small one will be liable to
partial resumption. That is to say, the owner may
keep as much land as would be £20,000 worth if
it was improved to the utmost. A Court against
which there is no appeal will decide what is the
utmost. If it says the land is capable of being
improved up to £lOO per acre (and what land isn’t
if sufficient is spent on it?) then all that the owner
can be sure of holding is 200 acres. And he won’t
know which 200 acres.
All land taken under this law, even if it is taken in
1940, will be paid for at no more than its value
on the last day of 1920. Therefore the spending of
money on improvements after that date is throwing
cash into the sea. The more the land is improved
after 1920 the more reason there will be for (and
the more profit there will be in) seizing it at the
1920 figure.
No land liable to resumption is to be sold except
with the permission of the almighty Minister. If
the Minister is too cantankerous to give permission,
or too corrupt to give it unless he is bribed, or too
lazy to attend to the business, very little business
will be possible. And, anyway, hardly anybody will
know whether his land is liable to be resumed or
not, because some Court may decide that even the
little 250-acre farm may be so improved that it will
be worth more than £20,000.
An immense and undefined area will not only be
liable to resumption at the 1920 value (or at what
the irresponsible Court reckons the 1920 value, though
it may be only the 1870 value). It is also to be
paid for in low-interest-bearing, long-dated bonds,
subject to taxation, which will certainly bring far
less than their face value. Some Stock Exchange
people, considering present prices and prospects,
reckon they won’t fetch more than two-thirds of
their face value. Consequently, the man who really
owns only one-third or three-tenths of his land, the
mortgage covering the other two-thirds or seven-
tenths, may consider his interest wiped out, confis-
cated and obliterated unless he lias the luck not to
catch the baleful eye of the irresponsible Court.
Certainly the depreciation • is pretty con-
siderable when a big and uncertain area has
a silly death-sentence passed on it. the sen-
tence being that all improvements made after
1920 are liable to confiscation, as well as
nearly one-third of the value as at the end
of 1920.
♦ .
Political and Commercial Anomalies.
In the Anti-Profitgering business it is com-
petent for any dogmatic young city Minister
who buzzes along the path of progress to
enact that the profit on the sale of manu-
factured goods shall be not more than 10
per cent, on the cost. Or it may be enacted
that the profits shall not be more than 8 per
cent, on the capital. Then the local manu-
facturer’s books can be overhauled, and if
it is proved that the article cost £lO he is
allowed to charge £ll. On the other hand
the importer or other agent for the foreign
manufacturer may produce documents (any
one can produce documents) showing that
the cost to him in his own country was £2O;
and on a 10 per cent, basis he can charge
£22. The difference in price doesn’t neces-
sarily encourage local production to increase
and wipe out the alien and make Australia
rich and independent, for the figure allowed
to the local producer may be so low that it
pays him as well to put his money into the
high-priced debentures that the Government
is pouring on the market in order ’to raise
money for hopelessly unprofitable works so
that the fiction of prosperity may be kept
up. Something of this sort seems to have
come about in the N. S. Wales cement indus-
try. There isn’t enough N. S. Wales cement
turned out to meet the demand, and while
the price of the local article is kept down
by law to £5 Bs. per ton it isn’t likely that
there ever will be enough. In fact, there
may be less than thei*e is now. So the im-
ported article, made outside all N. S. Wales’s
profiteering laws, is selling at about £l2
10s. per ton. The N. S. Wales cement
people have the usual troubles —strikes (for
which, even if illegal, there is no redress),
go-slows, the general atmosphere of sus-
picion and dislike created by the preachings
of dogmatic young Ministers that all em-
ployers are a nefarious lot, and so on.
Therefore they are not rushing money into
new works; and so people have to buy
a certain amount of imported cement at
455. a cask or suspend urgent works. Syd-
ney City Council is wondering whether it
can face the racket, or whether it won’t be
forced to abandon its proposed electric light-
ing extensions and let Sydney freeze next
winter and leave more people wanting rail-
way-construction jobs. Possibly if the
cement people could, by closing up, get back
the money they have invested they would
close and put their funds into Government
securities also. When they started they
didn’t know two things—that they would be
required to sell at less than half the im-
porters’ price, and that Government securi-
ties would presently yield a return which
makes it almost folly for even a small capi-
talist to work. If there was a quarter as
much energy devoted to starting new indus-
tries as in starting new speeches the abun-
dance of commodities might help the Anti-
Profiteering law materially in forcing prices
down. Abundance can do wonders that way.
The other day, without any price-fixing or
regulation or inspection, mere abundance
sent the price of certain N. S. Wales Govern-
ment securities down from the original £lOO
to £54. It is the same if profits are regu-
lated instead of prices. A heated Commis-
sion may order a Ballarat or Bathurst con-
cern to pay only 8 per cent., but even if the
Commission was heated hotter than Nebu-
chadnezzar’s furnace the Coats cotton
people in England would carry on at our
expense in the same old way just as the
cement people do.
«•
Uniform Pishing Laws.
The fatal shooting of a Melbourne fisher-
man by a Tasmanian trooper ought at least
to lead to the prompt federalisation of fish-
eries and to uniform laws against poaching.
For some years Victorian fishermen are re-
puted to have been in the habit of crossing
the Straits and fishing with crayfish “pots”
( i.c ., basket traps) in Tasmanian waters,
where the use of such traps is illegal. Cap-
tures of the poachers is difficult and convic-
tions are even 'more difficult, for it is neces-
sary that the wrongdoers shall be caught
redhanded, so to speak. It is alleged by Tas.
fisher-folk, in whose interests the use of
pots is barred, that the Victorians are speci-
ally equipped with speedy motor-dinghies
and plentiful supplies of large pots (which
may be abandoned if the Law heaves in sight,
and thus become drifting destroyers of in-
numerable fish for months or years), and
that they are practically uncatchable. A
50-ton craft, probably a schooner with motor
attachment, crosses the Strait with a cargo
of pots and a couple of Speedy motor-launches
on deck. Arrived on the coast of the Speck
(usually around the lonely north-east corner)
she anchors or cruises just beyond the three-
mile limit, while the swift motor-dinghies,
stacked higli with baited pots, run into the
rocky crayfish grounds in the semi-dark and
inconspicuously moor their traps. There is
no launching-place near, and a police-boat
would have to approach along miles of open
water. And no Tasmanian police-boat would
ever overhaul the 30-h.p. dinghies if it
came to a chase; The only visible hope,
therefore, of the police making an effective
capture without firearms would be to lie
in wait among the rocks and lasso the poach-
ers when they come close in at dawn to lift
their catch. But a lasso does not seem to
be part of a Tasmanian water-bailiff’s equip-
ment, so Trooper Smith, seeing a motor-
launch close inshore, apnarently lifting sub-
merged crayfish-pots, while a larger vessel
hovered in the offing, used his rifle to enforce
his shouted but calmly-ignored announce-
ment to the crew that they were under
arrest. His story is that on the motor-dinghy
making off towards the schooner he fired a
shot across her bows without effect, and
that he then fired several shots in the hope
of finding the petrol tank. Burgess, at the
tiller, ducked his head beneath the gunwale
and met the fatal bullet. If that were the
whole story there would be little room for
comment. But there is the possibility that
the unfortunate victim of the zealous police-
man’s shot did not know he was breaking the
law. It appears that fishing with crayfish-
pots is only illegal on some parts of the
Australian coast. Who is to say that the
victim knew that fishing methods permitted
in Victoria might bring a man sudden death
if practised in Tasmania? And because it
is possible for a doubt to arise in this con-
nection, if for no other reason, uniform
control and uniform penalties should obtain
in at least all the sea-things of the Com-
monwealth.
Westralia and T. Atkins.
Amidst the thousand noises of Sydney and
Melbourne the plaintive voice of the dissatis-
fied soldier-immigrant is beginning to be
heard. Several hundreds of these time-
expired Tommies have been knocking round
the cities, looking vainly for land or work.
Their importunities in Sydney seem to have
got on the nerves of the Labor Ministers, one
of whom remarked the other day in aggrieved
tones that they couldn’t be accommodated,
and rather pointedly hinted that they were
fools to come. According to the story of
a Tommy sergeant, an equally frigid recep-


Ti e Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ stfalia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL --- £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmens Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Limited
tion is handed out to them in Queensland.
But things are ordered differently in Wes-
tralia, where the influence of the kind of
trade-union secretary who foams against
immigration is not great. The Westralian
Government is gathering in the Tommy
soldier with both hands. By arrangement
with the Commonwealth Government and
the British authorities (who start by paying
his passage and those of Mrs. Atkins and
the little Atkinses, when there are any),
it finds land for him and helps to keep him
going until the area is productive. But he
is discouraged from rushing on to his block
unless he has had farming experience or
until he has acquired it. This shows how
the Government takes him in hand at the
start
The immigrants who arrived by the R.M.S.
Osterley were, as usual, put up for 10 days at
the Immigrants’ Home. They were welcomed
to Westralia by F. Bagmn, M.L.C., the Mayor
of Fremantle and officials of the Ugly Men’s
Association. • All speakers made it clear to the new-
comers that they would find a great deal of hard
work and possibly many disappointments ahead of
them, but that the rewards to be gained were well
worth the winning. Armed wijth a list of between
two and three hundreds farmers who were prepared
to place immigrants, the Ugly Men’s officials seated
themselves at a table in the dining-room and made
ready to deal with the stream of applicants for em-
ployment. Next to them sat an official of the Immi-
gration Department, who issued railway warrants to
the immigrants as soon as they had been suited with
positions and had been handed letters of introduction
to their prospective employers. The whole batch
was disposed of in a little more than an hour.
These men are classed as assisted immi-
grants. There are others who find their own
capital and buy their own experience. And
the State is not neglecting its own soldiers :
3000 of them have been placed on the land
in 18 months. In this way Westralia is
beginning to be known as a country which
treats warriors with honor and considera-
tion, which doesn’t encourage scowling paci-
fists of the Farrell or- Bramston brand, nor
talk boisterously of tipping war trophies
“over the Gap” ; and partly for that reason
British money is coming with the British
immigrants—for such things as woollen
mills, coal, manganese and alkalis. Next
to the Australian baby, Atkins from the
British Isles and Mrs. Atkins and the
infant Atkinses are the best immigrants
that Australia can get. But Westralia is
the only State that is at all conspicuous
in recognising it.
+
In the Name of the Dead.
One of the papers remarked genially on
Saturday in reference to Mrs. Asquith’s
latest book: —
If there were no revelations, no veils withdrawn,
no intimacies made public, no insistence on the feet
of clay of celebrated characters, what publisher would
give its author £13,000? No novelist, however bril-
liant, could expect such a sum for a book. The
reason is that Mrs. Asquith’s book is a human docu-
ment, dealing with real men and women, and, for
that reason, its interest tremendously transcends the
novel whose characters are creatures of air and
imagination.
What an -example of patient acquiescence in
the doctrine that “whatever is is best” ! In
London recently, when a peer was sued by
the journalistic hack who had written his
“Memoirs,” it was stated that most of these
productions are faked by “ghosts” from
material supplied by the p'utative authors.
So the public, dead and alive, lacks even that
frail protection which illiteracy in the gossip-
monger might be expected to provide, And
the taste for “human documents” is not con-
fined to London. Any needy old social battler
in an Australian or Maoriland or Canadian
city who 'is willing to put his or her name
to an assorted collection of scandal about
well-known identities can be sure of a sale
out of all proportion to the literary merits
of the work. The recipe is simple. The
writer may be sensationally daring about
Governor A or Premier B and their wives—-
all of whom are dead—but must watch the
step carefully in reference to the living. On
the other hand, more notorious, and, hence, in-
teresting, people are dead than alive, so
there can never be a dearth of suitable
material. Heaven forfend that the libel laws
should be made more drastic than they are;
but in view of the developments of the last
dozen years they might well be extended to
offer some protection to the lately-dead. The
test of a criminal libel is: Did the victim
on reading it so lose control of himself that
he reached for a lethal weapon and
'announced his intention of doing violence to
his assailant? One of the reasons why such
cases are rare is, probably, that the average
man’s opinion of himself is not sufficiently
exalted for him to be inspired with uncon-
trollable frenzy when reflections are cast
on his character. But the very man who
might philosophically swallow a public attack
on himself —to the extent, anyhow, of rely-
ing on the civil courts for a remedy—would
probably cause bloodshed at the suggestion
that his dead mother had been an adulteress
or his dead father a swindler or a coward.
It may be taken as read that the old Pagan
injunction against speaking ill of the de-
parted has done its dash as a repressive
factor. The Christian world of fashion needs
something a good deal more drastic for the
preservation of law and order.
Wanted: A Charge or a Climb-down.
Pastor Ernest Davies has reverted to the
atrocities which he says are being perpetrated
in N. S. Wales convents: —
Let me say that, from an institution governed by
a so-called Christian Church, a young- girl of tender
years came to my home in a sad state. Witnesses
are forthcoming to say that her clothes were in a
shocking condition. Her body was vermin-stricken,
and her back was bruised so much that it indicated
that she had received a terrible thrashing. Her face
was also bruised. She stated in my presence she
had not seen any fruit for four years. If you think
this shocking enough to require a Royal Commission
you will join one of the societies which are working
for this end.
This is less stirring than the pastor’s
original claim that he knew of a girl who
“had been bruised from the nape of the neck
downwards almost to a pulp,” that “he had
information about convents which would
shock the world,” and that “he had heard
the cries of girls in convents and they had
made his blood curdle.” But any of the
cases cited will suffice. The N. S. Wales
Government, as Mr. Davies probably knows,
has hitherto refused a Royal Commission to
inquire into conventual outrages. The reason
is that while scores are prepared, as he is,
to make accusations in which neither names,
dates nor any other specific facts appear, no
one seems willing to level one concrete charge
against a named convent in the form of an
affidavit. Mr. Davies and his friends may
be under the impression that the libel law's
give these institutions some sort of protec-
tion. Any lawyer will, however, point out
THE BLUE BIRD .
THE BOY: Give me back my Bird of Freedom. You said you only wanted a loan of
it.”
BIRD-FANCIEER HUGHES: Go away and play, laddie. I've got to Wee your bird; and,
besides, it’s a dangerous thing for a youngster like you to have.”
that truth published for the public benefit
is a,complete answer to every charge of libel.
Take the case of the institution from which
the blood-curdling cries emanate. Let Mr.
Davies attend there with witnesses of repute
while one of these tragedies is in progress,
and let him then, go to the front door and
demand an explanation. If a satisfactory
one is not forthcoming the police should be
informed and the name of the convent
published. And similarly where girls have
been bruised to a pulp and so forth. The
immediate and inevitable results must be an
outburst of indignation from decent R.C.’s
as well as Protestants; the appointment of
the Royal Commission which must remain
in abeyance so long as Mr. Davies and
others who claim to be in the know confine
themselves to arid generalities; and the
punishment of the guilty. Those clergymen
who go no further than misty innuendoes
about anonymous convents create one of two
impressions in the public mind, and neither
harmonises with the character of a follower
of the gentle Nazarene. Either they know
of one or more nunneries where infamies go
on and are misguidedly shielding them from
the fate they deserve, or they don’t and are
merely sensation-mongering in the interests
of the collection-plate.
,—
The Royal Commission on Federal taxation
commenced badly by digging up Kelly, lec-
turer on economics at Melbourne Univer-
sity. Kelly, with that stereotyped preju-
dice against co-operation which afflicts so
many minds, proposed a special tax on cor-
porations because, as they don’t die of appen-
dicitis in the ordinary way, they don’t pay
death-duties! But as the people composing
them die, and as the executors pay full duty
on the market value of deceased’s interest
in any company he is connected with, said
value covering capital, reserves and good-
will, the argument is rotten. It merely repre-
sents the craze to favor the individual mil-
lionaire as against the man who has to co-
operate w'ith others because he hasn’t the
means to work alone. Kelly also proposed
a levy’' on wealth “for the specific purpose of
reducing the national debt.” But it is impos-
sible to reduce the debt if the States are
still allowed to pile up new loans faster than
any imaginable levy on wealth could repay
old ones. Loan prohibition is the first need.
And the levy itself is a difficulty. It can’t
be paid in gold, for the Government owns
most of the gold already. The foreign credi-
tor, who is the real trouble, scorns our notes,
and we can’t dig up land and send him that.
If the Government made out a long list of
things that must not be imported, and
stopped the outflow of money to pay for
them, then there might be something tangible
to reduce debts with. As it is, Australia’s
wealth, apart from land and houses, is paper
money, ledger balances, the bill that Smith
ow’es Bkown and the p.n. that Brown gave
to Robinson, goods (clothes, beer, iron-
mongery. etc.), mostly imported and which
it, wouldn’t pay to ship back again, small
change (though even coppers ran short last
Christmas), mortgages, Tatt.’s tickets, Gov-
ernment debentures (oceans of them and all
depreciated), wind, guff (sometimes mis-
called economics) and hope—especially hope
that the horse may win.
♦—
“Macquarie Street” : The law of the land
and the Courts which administer them having
decided that George 'Georgeson is mentally
incapable of managing his own affairs, the
N. S. Wales Government did the grossly impro-
per thing of pressing Justice Pring, the Com-
missioner on the wheat scandals, to put the
man on the witness stand. It was perhaps
fortunate for the Government that two doc-
tors came instead of their patient, and satis-
fied the Judge that Georgeson was not a fit
witness. There ought, however, to be a better
means of dealing with cases where medical
evidence is a deciding factor. There should,
I think, be a Board, whose decision would be
final in inquiries of a similar nature. This
Board should consist of half-a-dozen leading
doctors, and should be composed of two
physicians, two neurologists, an ophthalmic
physician and an alienist. A statement signed
by six men of repute in the profession ought
to satisfy the most ardent prosecutor as to
whether a witness was capable of giving evi-
dence or the reverse. Because of the absence
of such an authoritative body Georgeson
has not had a fair deal from the Government;
+wT heri h hi fj u Wli d ? ctors strongly advised
that he should have the benefit of a sea trip
and a visit to the hot springs at Rotorua
whose therapeutic virtues are well known in
nervous diseases, political influence stepped
m, and the needful passports for Georgeson
and his attendants were refused. A course
of treatment at . Rotorua might have in-
fluenced the course of the malady favorably,
and have enabled him on his return to give
the evidence which the Commission was
creaied to receive; but political expediency
having denied him this therapeutic aid, the
authorities cannot complain at the upshot of
the case.
Officer” (B.
oU/J/20) displays a lamentable ignorance
of the use of the long “M.L.E.” rifle in the
<jreat War. A much more up-to-date
authority than Lord Roberts, that is to say,
General Montgomery, Chief of Staff to Lord
Rawlinson, Commander of the 4th Army
says in his just-published book, “A Hundred
Days of Victory ” :
While it is now realised that the moral effect of
the successful attack of the 4th British Army on
August 8 directly influenced the fighting spirit of
the whole British Army in France, it is not gener-
ally known that this victory could not have been
won without the steady and continuous offensive of
the Austrahan Corps throughout the months of
Apn!, May, June and July. To its remarkable
achievements during these months may be attributed
to a very great extent the increase in moral which
was necessary in order to make the battle of August
6 a complete success or even a possibility.
This result was achieved largely by continuous
smpmg by expert riflemen during the hours
it find by trench raids at night.
All the snipers and observers of each bat-
talion in the Australian Corps were armed with
the rifle which “Ex- Permanent Officer”
’ erans > name ly tlie long magazine Le“-
Lnneld. It was fitted, by the way, with a
very fineiy-adjusted telescopic sight, which
cost Ordnancefll. In the months of May, June
and July, 1918, our snipers, each accompanied
by an observer, clad in camouflaged hessian
suits, crawled out into No Man’s Land be-
fore daylight, and stayed till dusk. The
daily intelligence reports of each battalion
usually showed from two to a dozen Huns
picked off. It might also be stated that
tor accurate- shooting the German Mauser
was tar superior to our short rifle and
on many occasions when ample supplies
or enemy rifles and cartridges were avail-
able m captured trenches, the Diggers
temporarily discarded their own rifles
and used the Mauser. Both Captain
IJakin and Ex-Permanent Officer” miss
the mark in their references to the Australian
Infantry Corps School. Practically no in-
dividual shooting was taught there. Ninety-
five per cent, of the likely shots were sent
to the S.O.S. (Sniping, Observing and
Scouting) School at Mont des Cats (Bel-
gium), where experts of the Allied Armies
imparted the instruction.
■ — ♦
“Griffith Moses” in a wondering mood:—
Sometimes I think that a naturally open and
generous disposition may have been warped by cen-
turies of oppression, though why a populous country
with a presumably brave and highly enlightened
population allowed itself to be oppressed I could
never find out. Especially the matter is difficult as
it had no land frontiers to make it vulnerable, and
powei ful and warlike friends such as Spain, France
and the Papacy came to its aid more than once.
Scotland had no Silver Streak to protect it. It
was a solid kingdom only from the English border
up to where a strange race began at the Grampian
Hills, so it was for practical purposes only half
Ii eland s size, and when the first census of tlie
three kingdoms was taken in 1821 all Scotland had
only a little over a quarter of Ireland’s male popula-
tion. Scotland was vulnerable both by land and
sea, yet Scotland was almost. as hard to oppress
as a porcupine and as bad to sit on as a thistle.
1 ortugal :s about the same size as Ireland, and
is vulnerable both by land and sea. Yet Portugal
threw- out two oppressors on their pink ears, the
Moor and the Spaniard. (The latter only got in
by a sort of claim of inheritance when the old royal
family died out, whereas the Irish kings hadn’t died
out at the time of the English invasion, and after
a mere 60 3'ears Portugal booted what was still
the greatest empire in the world off its premises.)
In between times the Portuguese amused themselves
by discovering and colonising a good part of the
globe. Little peoples, not a patch on the Irish
for multitude and all open to attack from various
quarters Hollanders, Serbians, Montenegrins, Swiss
(only a fragipent of what is now Switzerland) and
Greeks all tried their hand at being oppressed, and,
without standing it near so long as the Irish did,
said it was a failure and biffed the enemy real hard.
Even Wales, one-fourth Ireland’s size and accessible
by sea and land, kept up a sort of running fight for
900 years despite the handicap of leaders with names
like Bleddyn and Gruffydd and Gwynedd. And
in its downfall it grabbed the British Treasury, like
Solomon grabbing the Philistine Hall, and sent
Lloyd George to London to dissipate the Sassenach’s
money.
The Bulletin’s Christmas Number will be
published on Saturday, December 11. It will
include the work of 50 of the leading artists
and writers of Australia, and be as good
a ninepenn’orth as this'oflace knows how to
produce.


Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL. —Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS. —Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGlNES. —Stationary Steam, 20-30' .H.P.
ENGlNES. —Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING. —Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR. —S te a m-d riv e n
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGlNE. —Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL.
tl
CURRUMBIN PLANTATIONS ESTATE.
Banana Land Subdivision.
17 GLORIOUS UNIMPROVED BANANA BLOCKS 17
in convenient areas of from 10 to 15 acres, to. be sold by public auction, on
SATURDAY, 27th NOVEMBER, 1920, at 2 o’clock, in Thornton & Pearce’s
Rooms, Tweed Heads.
Undoubtedly the finest piece of rich virgin volcanic scrub country ever
submitted to the public.
Admirably situated in the centre of the magnificent and wealthy Tweed
District, on the famous Currumbin and Tallebudgerra hillside slopes, only 6 miles
from railway station (by good road), from w T hence the fruit is conveyed to
Sydney and Melbourne Markets.
It excels in quality, convenience, shelter and aspect. The scrub on each
block has been felled and burnt, so as to enable purchasers to obtain the advantage
of the Spring growth.
Easy terms, only quarter cash, no further payments of principal
for two years, balance extending over seven years with interest
at 6 per cent.
Write for illustrated lithographs and full information, to THORNTON
& PEARCE, and P. SMITH, SON & ELLIOTT, Auctioneers in conjunction,
TWEED HEADS.
Finney’s New Book!
This beautiful
Fashion book,
profusely illus-
trated in many
colors, brings
the newest
fashions right
into your home.
It also portrays
a fine collection
of Men’s and
Boy’s Wear,
Household' Dra-
peries, etc.
This Beautiful Book Posted Free
to Any Address in Australia.
Finney, Isles $ Co. Ltd.
The Drapers of Queensland,
BRISBANE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Too many men own a country as they own
a beehive —-with the idea of robbing it.
What sort of a tribunal the Federal Parlia-
ment is to trv a man and pronounce him
unworthy of a seat in the House may be
judged by the fact that the two votes taken
on the Mahon matter were both cast abso-
lutely on party lines.
MOTHER HUBBARD.
“A deputation of the unemployed which waited on
the Acting-Premief (Mr. Gillies) received a promise
of what help the Queensland Government could afford.
Mr. Gillies, however, informed the deputation that
there was very little prospect of starting public
works, as the funds would not permit of that.”
A letter alleging that Johnston, M.L.A.
for Bathurst, received £5OO from one Talbot
to influence the Labor party in closing the
N. S. Wales wheat inquiry, and that Dooley
(Chief Sec.) and Mutch (Minister of Edu-
catiori) handled some of the money, made
its appearance last week, and it has been
hard to see the Labor caucus for dust. The
two Ministers denied the accusation, pas-
sionately and categorically. Johnston’s
declaration completely exculpates Dooley
and Mutch; for himself he affirms that he
neither approached the Government to close
the inquiry nor took money for that pur-
pose from Talbot or anyone else. A remark-
able feature of the case is the statement
that the letter was in the hands of Bailey,
another Labor member, for weeks before it
was handed to the Premier, and that it
was shown to “many other persons,” but
not to the “comrades” aspersed. This singu-
lar circumstance adds point to Dooley’s
reference to “a plot to discredit me in the
eyes of the party by envious persons jealous
of my standing and integrity,” and to
Mutch’s threat that “the matter will not
end till the methods and purpose of those
responsible for the publication of these vile
rumors are exposed.” There is something
touching and early-Christian about the love
of “comrades.”
Justice Edmunds, secured by the Govern-
ment with enormous difficulty to report
whether the N. S. Wales M.L.A. should get
a rise, found that only one member was ready
to give evidence when the inquiry opened.
A Solomon would have taken the evidence of
the one, then closed the inquiry" and reported
that the other 89 seemed satisfied. Not being
a Solomon, but rather a man who knows
what is expected of him, Justice Edmunds
started, instead, to issue subpoenas whole-
sale. But every one of them was directed
to a member of Parliament. He took the
Assembly register and demanded the attend-
ance first of all the A’s. Now, to make the
inquiry complete, he ought to take Sands’s
Directory, and, after demanding the attend-
ance of all the citizen A’s, inquire of them
what they honestly think about each in-
dividual member. For it is not a question
of what the job is worth. The job has just
been filled, so it is merely a matter of what
the man seems worth.
A few years ago people interested in the
Latrobe (Tas.)_ oil-shale deposits tried to
secure from the Navy Department a contract
for fuel oil at £4 a ton. They failed, and
now, because there is no local product to
speak of, the Navy has had -to make a con-
tract with the Dutch company at £7 10s.
a ton f.o.h. at Borneo. And if it hadn’t
been that Laird Smith was able to play off
the Anglo-Persian against the Dutchmen, the
Government would have had to pay much
more still, for the price originally quoted for
• the Borneo fuel was About £l4 a ton.
From a man in another gallery:—
Yes, as your “Old Parliamentary Hand,” says, T.
J. Ryan, M.H.R., has arrived. He was bound to do
so. He is the typical arriver—the Getter There who
is quite different from the man who is of value when
he has Got There. In Queensland David Bowman,
his senior and his superior in statesmanship, patriot-
ism and finer feelings, was brushed aside by the
breath of the oncoming rhinoceros. Tudor in Federal
politics will go the same way. Typical Getters
There in politics and finance, in real life and fiction,
have included Cleon of Athens, Giolitti of Italy,
Trotsky, and Dickens’s Merdle, Bounderby and the
Brassfounder. Likewise there were Ernest Terah
Hooley and the original Salvation Booth. Their
quality doesn’t necessarily imply Staying There.
Ryan used up Queensland in 41 dreadful years and
then fled to a Federal constituency in a State that
didn’t know him. He probably won’t last over three
years as Federal Prime Minister, and it will take 20
years to clear up the debris. Ryan did hardly a
thing in his own State that wasn’t a failure, but it
was always a loud, brassy failure. As with the
elephant, his path can be traced by the ruins ; still
that doesn’t make the elephant any less interesting,
arid, in his own way, successful. Ryan’s contribu-
tions to the debates suggest no single big idea for
the benefit of the country ; but as a party tactician,
a tireless critic who can pick holes in the decalogue
and a Getter There he is in a category by himself.
The shortened day is having awkward re-
sults which some of those who howled loudest
for it didn’t foresee. For instance, to favored
shearing sheds, where they pen up thousands
of woollies per man, come
hundreds of applications for
stands. In the past preference
went to local men or regular
applicants; but this year the
squatters have had no use for
any but the big guns of the
craft. Slow men and learners
—and they are numerous—
found that there was no demand
for their services. Lesser hours
and bigger wads are fine things
in prospect, but to the man without a job
they are as satisfying as visionary beer.
Mahon’s expulsion was voted in the early
hours of Friday morning by a House half-
dead with weariness and emotion. Both
sides were animated more by party feeling
than by concern for the Empire, and argu-
ments really didn’t count. Thus when
Ryan and his following argued that Hughes
should have taken criminal proceedings
against Mahon, and when the astute
emphasis on this point drew from Maxwell
the remark that it would be difficult to get
a verdict in a court of law, the confession
of the front-rank barrister made no impres-
sion. From the start the position was
awkward for Mahon’s colleagues, and it was
made more than embarrassing by his casual
defiance. A more amiable disposition would
certainly have shaken the unanimity of the
anti-Laborites, and a smiling and contrite
Mahon might have captured the support of
Fowler, Marks, Maxwell and a couple more.
Wharf-lumpers in Adelaide who believe in
solidarity and such things are trying to col-
lect their thoughts. They got notice on
November 4 from the executive in Mel-
bourne that the “overtime” strike was off
and that they could go to work again—if
there was any to go to. The point of the
joke was that right through the strike —
since September '6 —overtime was worked on
vessels loading at Melbourne and Sydney,
THE ONE-EYED POLICY.
“The British Admiralty had received a deputation
from the lower ratings, and the man who heard them
was no less a person than Earl Beatty, the hero and
idol of the British fleet. Surely the plan that was
good enough for the British Navy was good enough
for the Australian Navy.” —Mahoney ( N.S.W .) in the
House of Reps.
When the lower deck growled, the Earl
asked “Why?”
But the Board just wagged his head;
He cocked his glass to his sightless eye
And “I'm damned if I see it,” he said.
so that overseas ships topped up there and
passed Adelaide by. All refrigerating ships
were cut out and a good many others. So
Adelaide lost a lot of business and thousands
of pounds of wages, to the advantige of the
eastern capitals; and Perth had a similar
experience. The habit of knocking off work
for months at a time, in Perth, Adelaide,
Brisbane and other distant ports, at the
caprice of hawk-like individuals in Melbourne
or Sydney, has its drawbacks.
Pennington and Livingston, the two whips
of the reconstructed Lawson team, got their
first lesson on the opening day of session.
Only by a majority of four votes did the
Ministry pull through on ‘an amendment
moved by Cotter (Labor) that the payment
for boarded-out children should be 10s. in-
stead of the Bs. proposed by Treasurer
McPherson. The Hayseed Party split.
Only one member, Cleary, of Wollon-
dilly, turned up when the Commissioner
opened the inquiry into N. S. Wales mem-
bers’ salaries. Cleary’s story was that Wol-
londilly electorate is large, hilly, holy and
only moderately supplied with railways. In
seven months or so he had bumped over
thousands of miles by rail and, at some ex-
pense, fiver 2000 miles where his free pass,
didn’t carry him. Therefore he thought £lOOO
a year only moderate. To which it might be
replied that Wollondilly didn’t engage or
shouldn’t have engaged Cleary to be a post-
man, a professional pedestrian, a Marathon
winner, a Murrumbidgee whaler, a Wander-
ing Jew or the unquiet ghost of Hamlet’s
father. As for road and drain inspection
the local authorities are responsible for that.
He was engaged as a legislator. If he is so
feverishly anxious about his job, though the
next election is 2£ years off, that he must
make a monthly inspection of every baby and
shake hands with every mamma in his dis-
trict, he should make room for a calmer man.
Watt was the Banquo at the feast for
Hughes while the latter was indicting
Mahon. The man who resigned rather than
be the, Priminister’s telegraph-messenger in
London glided into the chamber while Hughes
was going like a provincial barnstormer, and
kept gazing at his old chief as if he were
some new curiosity. Hughes was palpably
rattled. He begins to suspect that too many
people really know him.
The famous Coats cotton combine, which
Australia, not having big industries of its
own, helps to support, made £4,164,894 last
year, after paying income-tax, war-profit-tax,
local rates (which in Jno. Bull’s country are
three to six times
the Australian
average) and every-
thing else. That
was nearly 25 per
cent. It pays bet-
ter to go after
people like that
than to set the
bulky machinery of
State hunting a
suburban grocer, as
happened recently
in Sydney, for sell-
ing a fragment of
butter at in-
stead of Bd. Coats
profiteers out of us
just as he does out
of Bull, but Bull
gets the profit out
of the profiteer,
and we dcn’t.
Britain has fallen
heavily on the rent
pirate who exacts
a premium for the
key. “Requiring
the payment of a
pecuniary con-
sideration as a con-
dition of granting
the tenancy of a
dwelling-house” is
now an offence at
law, and in the first
case under the new
Act landlord and
agent were jointly
ordered to• return
the plunder; more-
over, the landlord
was fined £25 and
the agent £lO, with
costs in each case.
But that happened
in benighted Lon-
don ; in Sydney the
key-profiteer still
plies his nefarious trade in contempt of the
purblind McTiernan and his offsider feproule.
The Mahon matter is really another de-
mand for the Swiss system known as the
recall. If Mahon breaks out in a way
which shows that he no longer really repre-
sents Kalgoorlie, then Kalgoorlie should have
the means to at once throw Mahon out.
With such means provided a Premier would
have no justification at all for proposing the
expulsion of any member; for if a constitu-
ency prefers to be represented by—well, even
by a tyrant like Hughes, it has a right to
have Hughes, just as Kalgoorlie has a right
to have Mahon, and Broken Hill is entitled
to Considine, the gentleman who acted as a
sort of consul for the Bolshevik Russian
Government for a while.
Martin Hannah has got in first in the "V ic.
Assembly with a bill to legalise the tote. If
he had held off a day or two somebody com-
manding more votes would have launched the
measure. But there is nothing to prevent the
Government entrusting McPherson with
authority to move for an amendment of the
Betting Tax Act, so that the tote may be
substituted for. the impost on bookies’ tickets.
South Aus. is anxious not to repeat on
its western boundary the experience it had
with Vic. on the eastern. The border of
S. Aus. and Vic. is the 141st parallel, and,
about half a century after it had been agreed
where that was, a mistake was found to have
been made in favor of Victoria by well over
two miles. The disputed territory remained
a bone of contention till at last it was taken
to the Privy Council, which decided that
S.A. must abide by the old agreement, for
otherwise, if improved methods of surveying
come in, a fresh line might be called for a
century hence. So the old mistake has to
stand. Westralia meets South Aus. on the
129th meridian, and nobody pretends to know
precisely where that is. A strong deputa-
tion, of the University, Observatory, Insti-
tute of Surveyors and various learned socie-
ties, therefore called on Premier B'arwell in
Adelaide to get busy on the matter before
the East-West railway line makes land out
in the desert a thing worth disputing over.
If the Vic. Assembly passes the bill to
continue the Fair Profits Commission
(McCay, Hutchinson and Gray) for another
year, the measure will get short shrift in
the Uppah House. It is doubtful, however,
whether the Assembly will leave the under-
taking job to the Council.
MURDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the course of a raid by the ‘Black and Tans’
the houses of 400 suspected Sinn Fein families were
destroyed.”— Cable.
“The Government’s measures in Ireland now have
murder by the throat.” —Lloyd George.
With bloodhounds trained and twelve-inch guns
And savage persons loving strife,
We looked for Murder where he runs
Through darkness with a reeking knife.
If we should chance upon him there,
There must be doings dark and red;
We meant to catch him by the hair
And murder Murder ten times dead.
We meant to lift the heavy fear
That sits upon us day and night,
To jab his midriff with a spear
And tear his beard in horrid spite;
To split him into several parts,
To hang him nine-and-twenty times,
Then riddle him with poisoned darts
And boil him living for his crimes.
The thought we had was hardly new,
Seven hundred years had made it stale,
Yet we devised to add a few
Fresh tortures on a grander scale.
We felt that we were bound to win
Our teeth were set in strong content;
We yet would bring this land of sin
To honor our kind government.
Armed to the teeth, our valiant hordes
Slunk through the shadows drear and black,
The dark blood clotted on our swords
Proved how our arms could hew and hack.
Breathless we waited. Soon, ah, soon
His dreadful face we hoped to see ;
Wild Murder with the rising moon
Would start upon his horrid spree.
He came at last—a crouching shape.
We leaped, we gripped him by the throat.
His pockets bulged with crimson tape,
His eyes appeared to glare and gloat.
Then suddenly we let him go—
Keep this thing secret if you can.
Yes, he was Murder; but, you know,
We took him for a different man.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


MORE MURDER IN MELBOURNE.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS of
LEAD—Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER—(SoId through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
ZINC DUST—(SoId through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
Also of LITHARGE —(Assay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYEKS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-BEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie, South Australia.
Coke Works: P.ellamhi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK. Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS. E.C. 2.
- A. ,T. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
<BHAS>
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge*
Lower the cost of production by using the famous
PIONEER
E
LEATHER
HELTINQ
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions, and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI &l SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Fane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co., Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
W.A. i Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
S.A.: John McKell,
Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The United Insurance Co. (fire, marine
and accident), of Sydney :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907.’. 16,855 12* p.G.= 10,675 6,180 154,494
1908.. 13,531 121 „ „ 10,6<0 2,806 157,350
1909.. 11,353 12* „ „ 10,67 a Ho 565 157,915
1910.. 15,250 12* „ „ 10,6,5 4,5(5 162,490
1911.. 24,650 12* „ „ 10,6(o 1|,9'5 176,465
IQI2 24 020 ,» a 10,6/5 13,340 189,810
'‘Transferred to capital, £20,000 ••
1913.. 31,062 10 p.c.= 12,000
1914 30 302 10 ~ ~ 12,000 —■ 18,302 207,174
illt:: 3M1210 ;;;; 12,000 - 24,612 231,786
Transferred to capital, £20,060 • ■ 211-'B6
1916 37 619 10 p.c.= 14,000 23,619 230,400
191?:.' 43,662 10 „ „ 14,000 - 29,662 265,067
1918.. 66,272 10 ~ ~ 14,000 52,272 317,339
’ Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 277,339
1919.. 66,402 10 p.c.= 18,000 48,402 320,H1
Transferred to capital, £20,000 - • 305,(41
1920.. 90,906 10 p.c. = 22,500 68,406 374,147
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 349,147
For three years in succession the directors
have pushed out bonus scrip in addition to
the handsome divs., and in each instance the
surplus of the current year’s profit after
providing for the dividend has easily covered
the amount required for the new scrip.
Since 1918 £85,000 of bonus capital has
been issued; and yet reserves are £31,808
larger. The past year was a very fat one:
over £91,000 of new business flowed in as
a result of lively trade conditions and higher
values of insurable's, and because of the
former au exceptionally favorable loss rate
was experienced. Only in one other abnormal
year (1918) were losses lighter. The ex-
pense rate, however, moved up nearly—two
points, £9510 of additional taxation being
wholly responsible. This table sets down the
past year’s experience alongside the records
for a quarter of a century :
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £58,499 £32,855 £19,580 56.2 p.c. 33.5 p.c.
1900.. 70,779 38,589 25,296 54.5 ~ 35.7 „
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 47.7 ~ 40.4 „
1910.'. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 ~ 44.0 „
1914.. 170,819 77,427 74,370 45.3 ~ 43.5 „
1915.. 188.287 88,220 77,029 46.8 ~ 39.4 „
1916.. 263,942 91,259 87,055 46.2 „ 42.7 „
1917- . 209,004 91,664 91,512 43,9 „ 43.8 „
1918.. 210,947 66,204 98,954 31.4 „ 46.9 „
1919.. 260,367 103,662 114,170 39.8 „ 43.9 „
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
Insurance cos. do not disclose the extent to
which the various classes of business con-
tribute to their figures. But from the N.
S. Wales Statistical Register, and from the
summary of returns during the year to June
30 last, it is possible to present a compila-
tion showing how' several policy-groups have
behaved. The following table cannot be read
in conjunction with that for the United
given above, which covers operations through-
out Australasia and abroad. The percentage
figures accompanying the losses show their
ratio to net premiums:—
1914. 1918. 1920.
£ £ £
r - 5 Net Premiums 859,009 1,117,849 1.3797779
lre { Losses .. 662,381 415,707 730,298
77.38 p.c. 37.19 p.c. 52.9 p.c.
j Net Premiums 282,671 411,965 506,931
-Marine Losses . . 112,128 153,885 209,142
39.67 p.c. 37.35 p.c. 41.2 p.c.
. •, . i Net Premiums 119,879 53,616 70,970
Accident Losseg 40,284 22,706 37,623
33.6 p.c. 42.35 p.c. 53.1 p.c.
Work- f Net Premiums 65,573 206,448 257,989
" lens 4 Lossete .. 14,646 77.104 140,155
satiem"' 1 22.34 p.c. 37.35 p.c. 54.3 p.c.
i> i Net Premiums 5,338 7,331 15,785
Logses . 1503 1)915 n ;5 54
28.16 p.c. 26.12 p.c. 73.2 p.c.
From a fire point of view 1914 was not a
normal year, but note bow the comparatively
low ratios for 1918 and 1919 have helped
profits. Recent conditions have suited the
underwriters well, and luck has also been
with them. An interesting feature of the
comparison is the greater loss rate shown
for workmen’s compensation insurance since
rates were reduced, that business now being
much less profitable than it used to be. The
burglary figures are of interest in view of
the recent activities of Bill Sikes. Apart
from the improved loss rate in the big lines,
the underwriters have scored, as have other
traders, by the much larger turnover. For
1914 net premiums collected in N. S. Wales
by all offices totalled £1,437,823; for the
year to June last, £2,238,332.
The United’s £257.193 of net premiums
from business in N. S.' Wales and elsewhere
gave an underwriting surplus of £62,893
(21.9 p.c.). Interest and rents brought in
£28,113, which easily covered the dividend
requirements. That means that the whole
of the underwriting surplus and something
besides remained on hand to strengthen a
position which was already very sound,
judged by accepted standards. After pay-
ment of the latest divs. the United showed
total funds of £596,147, equal to over 207
p.c. of the past yeai-’s net premiums. Put
another way, without the assistance of in-
coming premiums the United at Sept. 30
was in a position to meet claims equal to
almost 6i times the losses experienced dur-
ing the past year. The directors see pros-
pects of further expansion, and since after
the latest distribution of bonus scrip the
whole of the authorised shares had been
issued (though only £5 per £lO share has
been called up) they are asking shareholders
to increase nominal capital “to provide for
future requirements.”
Big changes have been effected in the dis-
position of funds since the war began:—•
1914. 1920.
Govt, securities £74,697 19.6 p.c, £276,175 39.3 p.c.
Deposits, cash &
sundry debtors 162,624 42.6 „ 206,778 29.5 ~
Debentures . . 38,250 9.8 60,831 8.7 ~
Mortgages . . 34,944 9.1 „ 53,988 7.7 ~
Premises . . 72,244 18.9 „ 104,281 14.8 „
£382,759 £702,053
They are a very satisfactory lot, practically
seven-tenths of total assets - being public
securities, cash and book debts.
Usher’s Metropolitan Hotel, Ltd.(Syd-
ney), which started with a deficit of £18,067,
made up of goodwill (£16,573) and pre-
liminary exes.: —
To Re-
Writ- duce
ten De-
Aug., Loss. t Dividends N Off. ficit. Deficit.
’14.. £921 —£18,988
Additional goodwill items, £559 .. 19,547
’15.. 1,070 20,617
Pi'ofit.
’16.. 105 £lO5 20,512
Prefs.
(8 p.c.) Ordinary.
’17.. 5,774 Nil Nil ' £l2OO 4,574 15,938
'lB. .10,650£1320* 10 p.c.=£7775 1200 355 15,583
T9..13,256 560 10 „ „ 7775 2400 2,521 13,062
Reserves.
’20..25,013 560 121 „ „ 9737 1200 13,516 454
*lncluding accumulations.
If the “Wild Cat” post-mortemist was con-
cerned only with the figures in that last line he
could not fail to throw a bouquet or two at a
management which had got such splendid re-
sults in so short a period, even though
abnormal conditions helped it. The table,
however, does not explain happenings subse-
quent to the balance. At that date (August
31) paid capital was £85,000, in 78,000
fully-paid £1 ordinaries and 7000 £1 prefs.
But prior to the accounts being made up
shareholders were called together with a
view to arranging a reconstruction, as an
“expedient advantageous to the co. and
to shareholders,” by wdiich means the share
capital could be adjusted to “bear a more
fitting relation to the actual assets of
the c 0.,” the directors glaiming that assets
had “substantially increased in value.” It
was decided to pass everything over to a new
co. with a paid capital of £163,000, the prefs.
retaining their old £7OOO interest and the
ordinaries receiving two new shares for every
one previously held. In their circulars to
shareholders the directors did not disclose
how this two-for-one juggle was to be made
possible, or what there was to justify it.
And, evidently, shareholders blindly agreed
to the proposal, for until a day or two ago
no statement had been presented to them
explaining precisely whence the £78,000 for
the bonus issue was derived. It now appears
that independent valuations were made of
the various assets, that both the general
reserve (£4158) and depreciation reserve
(£6000), together with the £13,428 balance
of P. and L., were capitalised, and that
£54,414 of the £78,000 bonus issue repre-
sented the extent to which assets were writ-
ten up.
Before proceeding further a little of the
early history of the co. is worth recalling.
It was formed to take, over the goodwill and
license of Usher’s old hotel, which was dis-
placed by the Daily Telegraph building,
and to erect a modern residential hotel on
the old Trocadero Cafe site. The freehold
of the latter cost £30,000, the lease of the
Cafe £2247, the Usher goodwill and license
£17,132, the new building £80,633, and fur-
nishings, etc., £15,231. The original share
capital and £50,000 of debentures proved
inadequate to finance the enterprise, and the
co. had to fall back upon a £lO,OOO issue of
second-mortgage debentures, besides putting
out £7OOO of 8 p.c. prefs. By the time the
co. got to business the property account had
run up to £113,102, at which figure it has
stood between the 1917 and 1920 balances.
Now, however, because, for the time being,
at any rate, the figure which would be asked
from any prospective buyer who might turn
up would be considerably more than this
co. paid, the directors are tacking £54,414
to the £129,661 book value of property, fur-
nishings, etc., the value of the land alone
apparently being written up from £30.000
to £40,000. In other words, the directors
have taken credit for boom values, and the
prospective investor in this co.’s shares must
take that important factor into _ considera-
tion when weighing up the security for his
money. The Usher property will henceforth
be shown at a value which would indicate
that it was built and equipped at practi-
cally top cost.
Were the directors justified? To say the
least, the reconstruction savors of old Mel-
bourne land-boom days, Who can guarantee
that present inflated property values will
continue, and that during the years to come
conditions will not so alter as to bring values
down with a run in the same way that ab-
normal conditions sent them sky-high?
Many prosperous cos. refuse to undertake
construction programmes under present con-
ditions, let alone write-up the value of their
existing properties. In very few instances
have recent reconstructions disclosed such
doubtful procedure as that shown by Ushers
Metropolitan. Of course, to old share-
holders it matters little: the security for the
money they put in is unchanged. But to the
unenlightened newcomer, paying for his inter-
est on the basis of new book values, it
matters everything. The reasons which
actuated the directors in increasing capital
in this dubious way were, of course, the very
handsome profits which have been made
lately and the threat of a State grab. But,
like the inflated property values, those pro-
fits are the product of abnormal conditions.
Whether they will continue depends on many
things, and, as past experience has shown,
residential-pub. profits have always been
erratic. The recent good run has, however,
permitted Usher’s to show this change in
its position:—
1916. 1920.
Liabilities .. £69,944 £60,530
Liquid assets .. 4,869 22,323
Excess liabilities £65,075 £38,207
That shows a substantial improvement of
£26.808 in four years, but such progress in
a wholly abnormal period does not justify the
directors of a young co. practising the art of
the boomster.
* * * *
Port Swettenham Rubber Co., office in
Melbourne, plantations in the Federated
Malay States: —
Charged to
Profit. Dividends. Development. Deficit.
June, £1,465
1911.. £1,265 Nil £1463 200
Reserves.
1912.. 10,241 5 p.c. = £2875 1916 7,166
1913.. 4,312 10 „ „ 5750 1819 5,728
1914.. 1,047 Nil 641 6,775
Law costs written off, £3455 . . 3,320
1915.. 1,105 Nil 754 4,425
1916.. 250 Nil 1441 - 4,675
1917.. 1,297 Nil 1699 5,972
1918.. 1,541 Nil 1608 7,513
1919.. 1,429 Nil 1815 8,942
Premiums on new shares, £36 . . 8,978
Pref. share flotation exes., £1025 7,953
Prefs.
8 p.c. Ord.
1920.. 4,275 205 Nil 2652 12,023
At the 1919 balance this co.’s paid capital
was £57,500; but the management was_ lean-
ing on outsiders to the extent of £14,465, and
there was an excess of liabilities over and
above liquid assets of £9586. During the
past year 20.500 £1 8 p.c. cumulative parti-
cipating prefs. were subscribed and paid to
155., and the £15,375 thus got relieved the
position, so that at June 30 total debts had
been reduced to £2756. The co. also did
much better with its product, a net profit_of
£4274 being earned, of which only £2O5 —
a half-year’s div. to the prefs.—was distri-
buted. After meeting flotation exes, of the
pref. issue and spending considerably more
on development than in any previous year,
the former excess of liabilities had thus, at
the balance, been converted into a liquid sur-
plus of £6127.
The Port Swettenham Co. has been
interested in Malayan rubber a little over
10 years; but it has not had an easy time.
After costly litigation it was deprived of a
portion of its original estate, and then a
cyclone wrecked most of what was left. The
directors decided that insufficient ground
remained in the old holding, so they took up
790 acres —-the Australasia estate —70 miles
away. Most of the trees in the replanted
area at Port Swettenham have now reached
the tapping stage, but in the Australasia only
290 acres contain trees eight or more years
old, 200 acres are under two years, while
the other 300 acres are about to be planted.
Production for recent years has been as fol-
lows :
Port Average Price
Swettenham. Australasia. Realised per lb.
lb. lb. s.. d.
1915.. 41,270 2 2
1916.. 22,676 2 10
1917.. 30,422 36,458 2 74
1918.. 43,078 72,800 2 24
1919.. 52,600 105,690 1 5.3
1920.. 50,000 110,200 1 11.47
Though labor and other costs have steadily
mounted during the past year—-at the old
estate the f.o.b. cost rose 36 p.c. during the
past year, though at the Australasia the
manager, assisted by a larger output, has
got costs down to under Is. per lb. for the
first time —the improved market price resulted
in a better profit than had been shown since
the old troubles were passed. A few months
ago it appeared that rubber prices were about
to make a recovery, notwithstanding that
the world’s production is nowadays four times
what it was in 1913. But Europe is making
very slow recovery from its war-wounds,
labor troubles in Britain and America
have unsettled the rubber-manufacturing,
industry, and the disinclination of the
banks to finance stocks has given the market
a severe setback. London quotations
recently dropped to the record low price of
Is. sd. per lb., though only a few months
ago several Australian cos. had arranged
forward deliveries at prices exceeding 2s. 6d.
Stocks in England at the beginning of the
year were 23,200 tons; by the end of August
a further 10,000 tons had accumulated. But
there is a silver lining to the cloud;
once the world settles down again th-ere is
every likelihood of a keen demand for raw
rubber. Meantime the rubber planters have
decided on a go-slow policy, and have agreed
to curtail tappings.
It is impossible to estimate probable pro-
fits from the 177,0001 b. which the Port Swet-
tenham co. had planned to harvest during the
current year. Including the outlay on new
clearings and on areas not yet bearing, the
year’s total expenditure is set down at about
£12,400, practically Is. sd. per lb., and on
the basis of recent market prices that wvouid
leave 4’ery little margin available for divs.
To pay 8 p.c. divs. all round would call for
£5600, necessitating a net profit of 7d. per
lb. on a 177,0001 b. harvest. So the chances of
the ordinaries are for the present not over-
bright, and their future depends on a com-
modity market which even in normal times
was most erratic.
* * * *
Australian Distillery Co., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), manufacturers of tipples and in-
dustrial spirits. The deficit of £2366 with
which the co. began was made up of pre-
liminary exes, and a trifle paid for goodwill:
Net To Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£2,366
1913.. £135 £135 2,231
1914.. 1,232 —— 1,232 999
Reserves.
1915.. 3,673 3,673 2,674
Prefs.
(10 p.c.) Ordinaries. Deficit.
1916.. 3,670 * £6013 10 p.c.= £1449 1,118
1917.. 6,756 2000 10 „ „ 2905 1,851 " 733
Pref. shares become ordinaries.
1918.. 22,747 121 p.c. = 9,653 13,094 13.827
1919.. 11,758 10 „ „ 11,205 553 14,380
1920.. 23,695 121 „ „ 16,861 6,834 21,214
including accumulations.
The directors show the net profits for the
past three years as: 1918, £9247; 1919,
£11,758 ; 1920, £17,195; but that was after
deducting £13,500 for transfer to a contin-
gencies reserve in 1918 and a further £6500
at the latest balance. Another view of the
co.’s progress can be got from this compari-
son of gross profits :
1913.. £lBB2 1917. . £15,047
1914.. 2794 1918.. 41,997
1915.. 5338 1919.. 29,320
1916.. 7280 1920.. 47,566
A proprietary had launched the business only
a short time before the public co. took over,
and since under the Act spirits must be
allowmd to mature for two years before being
marketed, the earlier years of the co. showed
very little cash profit, though consider-
able stocks were accumulating. The co. had
started with a paid capital of £29,490,
£15,000 of which represented cumulative
prefs. Until 1916 no div. was paid, all
funds being required to finance extensions
and the piling stocks. The directors had
meantime also coaxed in £15,543 of new
capital. By the following year all arrears
due to the prefs. had been met, and as they had
then had half of their money returned, their
preference rights lapsed in accordance with
the arrangement under which they had been
subscribed, and they thenceforth became
ordinaries. Since 1917 the co. has done very
well; no doubt it would have done consider-
ably better during the years of shipping
shortage if it had had more saleable stock
on hand. Capital has now been built up to
£150,000 and the management has also
a £21,566 overdraft. The co. is distilling
whisky, brandy, gin, rum and fortifying,
rectified and methylated spirits.
This shows the co.’s progress in another
‘ way :—-
1913. 1916. 1920.
Paid capital . . . . £29,490 £45,033 £150,000
Liabilities . . . . 8,916 17,483 34,870
Freeholds .. .. 14,662 20,958 49.421
Plant, etc 5,595 8,164 18.818
Stocks .. .. 13,221 21,548 113,798
Book debts .. x.. 2,495 10,664 29,531"
Investments, etc. . . 203 63 5,126
Since the first balance shareholders have put
up over four times as much capital as the
co. started with. That was somewhat daring
in face of an uncertain future. However,
for some years to come, at any rate, there
seems little likelihood of general no-license in
the Commonwealth, and with a tariff which
gives local industry from 2s. to 7s. per gal.
protection there is no reason why the Aus-
tralian Distillery Co. should not do welh


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. — Advt. [2
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
* * * *
An extract from a letter to The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., from Amalgamated Zinc Limited, Broken
Hill, states “We have in use considerable quantities
of wood pipes. Long runs of 6in. and Sin. pipes
were installed in 1910 and are still giving every
satisfaction. They were adopted in the first case on
account of the ease and rapidity with which they
could be laid.” The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove; and at Footscray, Vic.
—Advt.
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate, and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits
are advised to communicate with this company.—
Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Ceil. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes front 1£ to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply . schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne. — Advt.
. * * ■* *
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (betjveen Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
BrooKhirst Standard
B. &t C. Motor Starters.
B. Type— \ to 100 H.P. 100 to 550 volts]
Write—
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD-
National Mutual Buildings.
Cr. Collins & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne.
’Phone. Central 4031.
Dalgety 8 Company
—Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
&
■
3 O
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
• Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
u
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
A pathetic little balance-sheet which
lately appeared was that of the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne Go., the owners of
the bunding where the bears and bulls herd.
This is one of the land-boom real-estate
investments which, has never been able to
recover lost capital or earn reasonable in-
terest. The original cost was £278,276, in-
cluding the land bought during the Broken
Hill silver boom period. Though £153,395
has been written off, the remainder,
£124,881, last year earned a profit of only
£617, after paying interest and other
charges. Subscribed capital was always ridi-
culously small at £23,884; and there is a
mortgage of £BO,OOO on the property. The
Stock Exchange itself invested only £17,000.
* * * *" *
“De Carteret” : The Vic. and S. Aus. State
Governments, the Vic. Electricity Commis-
sioners and, lately, the Vic. Railway Commis-
sioners have been feverishly wasting money
on research work and experiments with brown
coal. Yet the annual output of brown coal
in Germany is 100,000,000 tons, and is
rapidly increasing. The Germans have been
briquetting brown coal for nearly 40 years
for use as domestic fuel and as fuel for
freight locomotives. During recent years
German chemists have been most successful
in extracting lubricating and heating oils
from brown coal, and it is considered that
Germany will ultimately be able to reduce
the importation of petroleum to next to no-
thing. The extraction from brown coal of ben-
zole, oil and tar was well understood before
the war, and was undertaken on a large scale
in 1916, when the shortage of lubricants
threatened to stop the German war-machine.
Why don’t the Australian authorities stop
wasting money in laboratories and put up
plants to distil oil and make coke from
brown coal?
Brown coal has been “discovered” seven
miles south-east of Ballan (Vic.), on the
Yalloak property of H. Miller. A prospecting
shaft has been sunk for a few feet, and coal
occurs “all the way.” The fact is that the exist-
ence of the deposit in the creek-bed has been
known for 60 years, and the Mines Depart-
ment records tell all about an examination
in 1893 or thereabouts. Private Enterprise
has never thought it good enough to develop
the field. ■ But circumstances have changed,
and a syndicate is giving somebody a chance
to make or drop a bit. Naturally, Ballarat
is most interested.
* * * *
David Lumsden’s preliminary Mt. Lyell
budget makes sad reading for the copper-
share market: it discloses that the net profit
for 12 months’ work was only £76,007, com-
pared with £130,232 for 1918-19, and
£247,228 for the previous half. No pro-
vision is made for taxation; the directors
■were wise enough during the war to make
provision for any emergency. With sul-
phurous fumes always about and big fur-
naces running at high temperature, deprecia-
tion keeps close to the £50,000 mark, and this
year’s appropriation is only £3OOO short of
that figure. But the prospecting and de-
velopment vote has been cut down to £9500
—half what it has been recently.
*• * * *
Westralia’s gold output still dwindles.
This year’s 600,0000 z. or so will be more than
100,000 oz. less than the 1919 total, and not
a third of the production of years ago. Min-
ing men and politicians still talk about
breaking the fall, but can’t agree as to the best
way of tackling the problem. What seems
to be needed most of all is systematic, vigor-
ous and continuous gold-hunting within cer-
tain defined areas. This would be best pro-
moted perhaps by Prospecting Aids Boards
subsidised by the State. If such Boards were
created and were of the right character the
prospector of known ability and willingness
to work would be more or less assured of
assistance. Under the present blind system
the Department knows but few of those
soliciting aid, and, in most cases, absolutely
nothing of the country to be tried.
* * * *
Disgusted shareholders in Westralia want
to know what has happened to several golden
mirages floated in Kalgoorlie and Adelaide
during the Hampton boom and not heard of
since. One delusion was offered to the
public in April at Is. on application, and a
3d. call, which no one appears to have paid,
was made in August. Little capital appears
to have been subscribed, and the shares were
never listed on the Stock Exchange. Prob-
ably when inquiry is made it will be found
that after the cash deposit of £BOO had been
paid to the vendors there was practically
nothing left wherewith to start operations.
That was the experience of several Hampton
and Monger floats.
* * * *
Prom Westonia; —
During the past two years operations at the Edna
May Central have consisted chiefly of fixing bulk-
head doors, pumps and excavating sumps and pump-
chambers, and such work is still in progress at
No. 5 level. These costly operations have been
rendered necessary because there are four indepen-
dent pumping stations at Westonia instead of one
joint station. The money that has been thus wasted
would have paid several dividends, and the stupid
policy is directly responsible for the present parlous
position of Westonia. The assistant State mining-
engineer and the Edna May’s manager pointed out
that the Edna May pumps were controlling most of
the field’s total inflow, and that when those pumps
ceased operating the adjoining mines would be
swamped unless a joint scheme was installed. Had
commonsense been shown by those in control, West-
onia would to-day be a promising mining centre.
As it is, neither Central nor Deeps can hope for
success. A heavy inflow is constantly threatening
them, and though the efforts of the mine-managers
to deal with the flood are commendable all hopes of
divs. fade away. The cos. practically admit defeat
by looking elsewhere for properties. The Central
has secured one at Kanowna in which there is a
lode sft. wide, and estimated to be worth 18dwt.
per ton, but that co. will travel a long way before
it secures a property containing such fine ore-bodies
as there are in its Westonia mine.
* * * *
Hansel Mundy, having flitted from Bendigo
after failing, to strike gold on the Carshalton
|ine, looks like coming another cropper over
its Hampton Plains leases. The block along-
side White Plope cost it £4OOO, and it has
spent £2500 in trying to prove that the run
of stone parallel to the White Hope lode
has more than physical resemblance to that
formation. So far Bestwick has only proved
that a bit of a flat lens of sulphides carried
through No. 1 shaft. It was over this floater
that the boom burst. Nothing has showm up
at No. 2 and No. 3 shafts, but the Board is
undismayed and considers it advisable to con-
tinue “careful” prospecting.
Recent operations by the Golden Butterfly
on its Marvel Loch option have disclosed a
continuation of the lode worked by the
vendors. The show, which is known as the
Banker, has a sft. lode estimated to assay
18dwt. at a depth of ISOft., but only a very
short length of ore has yet been exposed.
The ground is hard, and water-level is only
100 ft. from surface. Much more work w!ll
be necessary before chances can be estimated.
At present the Banker, like many another
Marvel Loch show, looks as though it might
be a good proposition in the hands of a small
party, though not big enough for a co.
• * • - ft
Efforts are being made to induce the P. and
O. Co., Bill Clark and others to lend a help-
ing hand to Collie coalfield (W.A.). Boring
in various parts has proved the existence of
a number of new seams equal in quality and
thickness to any yet worked, and others are
being searched for. Preparations are being
made to launch at least one big flotation.
Badak shareholders will soon have the
opportunity of seeing prospector Orton and
director Scarborough face to face. Such a
lot has still to be cleared up about the early
prospecting and sampling. The encounter
should prove historic, particularly if Cap’n
Miles blows in. General-manager Raleigh is
still boring in Kedah “to fully satisfy himself
before finally abandoning the property.” This
is an ominous phrase, especially when
coupled with the news that another block of
ground is being looked over prior to
systematic testing.
* * * *
So sick is mining at Ararat (Vic.) that
the old gold-stealing wheeze is trotted out
to explain why everything looks so blue
there. But it is too thin. The gold does
not get to the machines of the Langi Logan
South plant, not because it is snapped up by
the staff, but because it never was there.
There isn’t sufficient staff underground in
the faces to carry, off as much gold as is
alleged to be lifted; and if miners are such
gold-stealers as is represented, the ‘very
trouble of getting men is sufficient evidence
that no rich patch exists in this mine. Work
is too far away from the last good ground
on the Cathcart lead for heavy gold to be
fed into the Langi big gutter. unless a tri-
butary to the south has enriched it unex-
pectedly, and there is no trace in the mine
that this happened.
* * * *
An effort is being made to put the old
Rawbelle silver mine, in the Burnett dis-
trict (Q.), into commission again. It was
worked for silver and copper many years
ago, but did not pay at the metal prices
then ruling. The old main-shaft has been
cleaned out and a new shaft sunk, but the
latter has not yet got on to the formation.
In the main-shaft at the 70ft. level a
foot of ore is exposed consisting of galena,
pyrite and copper pyrites. A small quan-
tity of ore has been raised, the firsts assay-
ing ldwt. gold, lOoz. silver and 25 p.c. lead,
worth about £9 per ton. The seconds carry
ldwt. gold, 2oz. silver, 5 p.c. lead, worth
£2 10s. per ton. The prospects are not
bright, as the show is about 50 miles from
the Gayndah railway branch, and the party
will need a very high-grade concentrate to
pay the high freight. Eidsvold, 40 miles
to the south-west, is the nearest township.
The Burnett railway, when built, should
gave an impetus to mining in the district, as
there are numerous small shows of silver-
lead and copper in the country lying to the
back of Mt. Perry, none of which' is rich
enough or big enough to tackle under pre-
sent conditions. Most of these shows are in
slate and schist country, and the Rawbelle
itself is right on the granite contact, which
is all in its favor, as it has been a notable
ore-bringer. The rich copper-mines of Mt.
Perry, Harper’s Hill copper and Wombah
molybdenite are all connected) with this
granite intrusion.
It is proposed to amalgamate the Sun-
down and Comet mines, Stanthorpe (Q.).
The Sundown a few years back was regarded
as a fine proposition, but a dislocated copper
market and the falling off of the tin values
landed it in trouble, and it has been idle
for a considerable portion of the year. When
first worked it was primarily a tin-mine, but
carried rich shoots of copper and a heavy
percentage of mispickel. The Sundown has
a battery and concentrating plant, as well
as an arsenic-recovery plant, and the Comet
recently erected a 10-head stamper battery.
The Comet lode is parallel to the Sundown,
and carries the same ore (tin, copper, silver
and arsenic), but it has never come up to
promise. Amalgamation might provide suffi-
cient ore to keep the Sundown treatment
plant going.
Bowen Consolidated Coal Mines (N.Q.) is
pushing ahead with 'development. This
£125,000 co. in January last took over 15
leases in the Bowen coal basin, and after
further prospecting (£lO,OOO had been pre-
viously spent on the field) the directors
acquired three leases and surrendered the
rest. They then put John McNaughton,
formerly of Newnes (N.S.W.), in. control.
On the Garrick seam one tunnel on a l-in-7
grade is already in 250 ft. on 7ft to Bft. of
coal showing no bands or faults, and a com-
panion tunnel has been started. Two shafts
are to go down on the Bowen seam, which
is 171 ft. thick. Work is proceeding on the
two seams at the State coal-mine, and the
machinery has been brought from the old
Warra mine (S.Q.). The construction of
the railway connecting the field with Bowen
is making slow progress, and will probably
not be completed inside 18 months. The
Garrick and Bowen seams are estimated to
contain at least 44 million tons.
The erection of the State Battery at Kid-
ston (Q.) is well under way, and the Percy-
ville battery is now on the ground. There
are three private crushing plants on the
Oaks field, comprising 30-head of stamps,
but only one plant is available for public
crushing, and it has recently been kept fully
supplied with Mountain King ore. There
are roughly 30 claims and leases in force
now, so the new battery will give the small
man some sort of a show. But it is not a
small man’s field by any means: economic
mining demands open-cut methods. Skin-
ning rich leaders only spoils the ground for
any future operations. Scarcity of water
is periodically a great drawback to the bat-
teries operating on this field.
The haulage plant at Mt. Mulligan coal-
mine (Q.) has been installed and is now
operating satisfactorily. It transports the
coal from the uit-bottom to the railway,
three-quarters of ao mile away, and will
materially increase production,' which last
year was 20.000 tons. A big seam is being
opened up half, a mile north of the present
tunnel.
* * * *
The A.U.S.N. Co., which recently pur-
chased the Caledonian pit, at Thagoona,
near Walloon ((}.), is installing electric
haulage and an endless ropeway. This
should aid production, which has been about
120 tons a day, wholly from the lower seam.
There is a 3ft. seam above the present
workings on which the management intends
to operate.
* * * *
The principal mine at Herberton (W.A.)
nowadays is the Empress, a copper show
owned by three local people who have done
very well out of its rich ore body. Tin-
mining in the district at present barely calls
for mention, though prospecting is proceed-
ing in the Gt. Northern freehold, where one
of the shafts is being sunk to tap the ore
body. If successful, Herberton should get
a lift. John Newell is the driving force
behind this enterprise.
* * * *
Some good alluvial tin patches have been
found in the gullies round Mt. Spurgeon,
Herberton district (Q.). and the news is
attracting hands from other parts of the
district. Head-and-tail races are being con-
structed, and a little sluicing is already
being done. The area is almost inaccessible
at present, and needs a good road.
» *
“Roman”: “G.D.M.’s” claim (B.
21/10/’2O) that the Anglo-Persian Co.’s
engineers “spotted the cause of failure at
Vailala (Papua) as soon as they saw the
seepages and bores placed on ton of them”
is nonsense. What about the famous Yen-
angyaung field of Burma, which was started
by hand-dug wells right on the seepages, and
has since proved to be the richest part of
the field, the seepages having denoted the
denuded crest of the anticline? Oil Springs,
Ontario (Canada), was started on seepages,
the Black and Mathewson well flowing 7500
barrels daily. Salt Creek, Wyoming
(U.S.A.), is only 1-J mile from the see-
pages at the outcrop, on a homocline at that:
I could adduce hundreds of similar instances.
Further, why is the Roma well “obviously
only natural gas”? And how do you find
anticlines under 3700 ft. of plain country?
Fred Tricks called in 11. D. Mackay to
measure up Ben Lomond tin, about which
the Speck has always had ambitions. The
old hands worked the Republic down to
■iooft., with the shoot said to be going strong
at the bottom ; but the Ben Lomond and the
Forman’s workings were full of bitter dis-
appointment. On the surface there is an
80-h.p. gas plant and a 10-head battery, so
if Nature has put the tin there man is ready
to get it out. But engineer Mackay, once of
the Bischoff, suggests nothing more than a
bold prospecting campaign. Ben Lomond’s
trouble has been that though the shoots of
tin are rich they never extend far. Thus
while in the long-ago profits may have gone
to small operators, nothing ha/S ever showed
up to allure the outsider.
* * * *
Lonely Reef, one of the Rhodesian big-
dividend earners—since 1914 it has paid 140
p.c. on its £271,007 capital-—recently struck
a freak formation in its No. 22 level. The
reef there (2675 ft. down) is almost wholly
oxidised. Geological opinion is that this
unique occurrence is connected with the
existence of an extensive crushed zone, con-
taining little ore, which the co. encountered
in levels above.


THE HOT-AIR REFORMERS.
FIRST WORM: “What’s all the trouble?”
SECOND WORM: “Oh. the ass polling the cart is getting ahead too slowly, and the others are dtscussing poss.ble ways and means of shifting the


1
£
<53
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage ?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear ?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone, is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management P. T. CHKKSEMAN.
IMPERSONAL
Dr. Davidson, Archbishop of Canterbury
and Primate of England, is 72 and thinks
about retiring; and the 57-year-old Arch-
bishop Donaldson, of Brisbane, son of the
first Premier of N. S. Wales, is said to be
in the running for the mitre. His elder
brother, Stuart Alexander Donaldson, a
Sydney native, is Master of Magdalen Col-
lege, Cambridge, and married into the
peerage.
The juggle over the filling of vacancies in
the N. S. Wales Pledgislative Assembly will
enable Theodore Hook Hill to succeed
George Briner as
one of the Oxley
group, and the
State Parliament
will thus achieve a
bank manager—a
rarity in the
Assembly, at any
rate. Hill, who is
65, has been 45
years with the
Bank of Austral-
asia, and he
regards politics as
a light and genial
occupation for his
declining years. He
is an Australian of
the Manning River
breed.
RITCHIE, the
new S. Australian
Treasurer, who
recently delivered
his first budget.
The member for Kalgoorlie, critically con-
sidered :
A sour, wintry sort of man, surcharged with
venom, Mahon has never been popular. In West-
ralia, outside the Hibernian circles in which he
moves, he has no friends. His journalistic career
at Menzies and Kalgoorlie was distinguished by
bitter feuds, notably one he had with Harry
Gregory, M.H.R., then Mayor of Menzies and pro-
prietor of the rival paper. Years afterwards
Gregory signally avenged himself by beating Mahon
for the Dampier seat in the House of Reps. Another
celebrity who felt the sting of Hugh’s acidulated
pen was Norman K. Ewing, at that time M.L.A.
for Canning, and front-rank lawyer; now Tas-
manian Judge and peripatetic Royal Commissioner.
In the early days of the Federation Mahon tried
to achieve notoriety by attacking Kingston. At a
later period Deakin became his aversion; and
there are still men in the House who, cherishing
Deakin’s memory, have never forgiven Mahon for
the mean slights and petty humiliations to_ which
their old leader was subjected during his mission
to the San Francisco Exhibition. A grim recol-
lection of these things was in many minds when
the Ministerial caucus met last week. In some
respects Mahon is unquestionably a man of ability.
But anything less like the traditional Irishman than
this bleak and unsmiling veteran could hardly be
imagined. His rage has the quality of a volcanic
eruption in a land of ice and snow. He reminds one
of one of those arid volcanoes in the Antarctic waste.
Tas. Parliament has passed an amendment
of the Medical Act. This, without naming
any names, gives Dr. Victor Richard Ratten,
surgeon-superintendent of Hobart General
Hospital, effective sanctuary from the
which is alleged to have pursued him vigorously
for upwards of three years. So the allega-
tion that Ratten’s Illinois diploma was no
good, and that
even if it was any
good it had been
f r audulently
obtained, doesn’t
matter any more.
And seeing that
this surgeon has
been practising in
Tasmania ever
since 1907, admit-
tedly with marked
success, and that
nobody questioned
bis diploma until
he took charge at
the Plobart Hospi-
tal when the other
doctors had de-
serted in 1917, no
great harm is
likely to be done if
the whole wretched
squabble is buried
a hundred fathoms
deep.
GENERAL
WHEATLEY,
Military Sec. to
G.G. Forster—lie
is married into the
Fairbairn family.
R. G. Watkins, who died at the age of
71 at Chatswood (N.S.W.), was one of the
merriest and kindest-hearted Welshmen that
ever came to Sydney. He had spent most
of his life in a comfortable old house at
Waverley, where he concerned himself out-
side business hours with municipal affairs
and bowls. He was a great Nationalist and
an unflinching Protectionist in the days
when George Reid was busy confusing such
policies, in the ffiiinds of tjiose who in-
habited the more genteel Sydney suburbs,
with disloyalty to Britain. But the florid,
round-faced, laughing Sydney merchant car-
ried on, making new friends of all political
shades and never losing an old one. For
that was the Dickensesque sort of man
he was. Pie had known for months that,
the end was near, and faced it with char-
acteristic fortitude. Two sons and three
daughters, all grown up, survive him.
Two sons of Hugh Mahon wore khaki
for “the bloody and accursed Empire”
that their parent has been denouncing. One
of them, a likely young surgeon, did a lot
of campaigning for dad at Kalgoorlie last
year. Without his help Mahon could hardly
have won the seat.
There was no opposition to Theodore when
the Queensland Labor caucus met to - sort
things out after the election, but Jack Fihelly
was deposed from the deputy-leadership by
the more methodical and less spectacular
Gillies. Fihelly has his eye on a seat in
the Representatives. Herbert would suit
him, but Oxley wouldn’t be despised.
Maoriland lost one of its hardest-working
and most efficient public servants the other
day when Robert Triggs, the Public Trustee,
went where all the good testators go. Triggs,
a Maorilander by birth, went over to West-
ralia as stores manager of the railways when
Thomas Romayne became chief locomotive
engineer of that State, and later was enticed
into the Federal Postal Service as custodian
of equipment. When Bill Massey wanted
someone to put the new Public Service Board
on its feet he sent for Triggs and subsequently
installed him at the Public Trust Office as
head of that organisation; and when the
Dominion became involved in transactions
involving millions over the sale of butter,
cheese and meat to the British Government
during the war-years, it was Triggs who
handled the big deals. He managed this job
with conspicuous ability and received loud
applause, but the noise didn’t interest him
much, for he was then a failing and doomed
man. He came over to Sydney last year to
consult a specialist, and the verdict was
expressed by a gravely shaken head. Triggs
was 65 at the end. The wonder is that such
a glutton for toil lasted so long.
From the Vic. State gallery:—
Lawyer Eggleston, new member for St. lvilda, is
the most intellectual looking of the new 13, with
Morley a good second. Eggleston, who was not well
posted up by old hands, spoke a piece in moving
the adoption of the Address-in-Reply that might
have done credit to the prelector of the Trin. Col.
Dialectical Society, but was rather trying for a
House of Parliament with traditions dating back to
1856. He was at his best for the few minutes he
was telling Henry Hayseed candidly what he thought
about him and wheat, and explaining that he got in
because St. Kilda wanted above all things to avoid
electing a wowser.
Ellis Dean has died at New Norfolk
(Tas.) after 46 years of real life and 20
in the House of Doddery. He was as con-
servative as the oldest fossil in the island,
but a rattling good speaker, able to talk at
any length on anything at any time, and
a good fellow to boot. Like Billy Hughes
he generally had a text of Scripture to back
up his argument. His half-brother Johnson
Dean was one of the Tasmanians who went
gold-hunting in California and Oregon in
1850, but Ellis did his digging amongst
the hops and apples of the Derwent Valley
and found it answer better.
Frank J. Kelly, the Argus pressman
whose report of the Richmond (V.) Yelp-
for-Ireland meeting played so important a
part in the undoing of Hugh Mahon, is,
by the irony of Fate and a reporter’s job,
himself a devout Irish R.C. He is “pro-
ducer” of Dr. Mnnnix’s official organ, The
Advocate, but does most of the Argus
Catholic reporting on a “specials” basis.
Kelly’s affidavit did not appear in the Mahon
barney in the Reps, on Armistice Day, but
he has the reputation of being an accurate
man. Before moving to Melbourne journal-
ism he was chief of staff of Geelong Adver-
tiser for many years.
Conan Doyle doesn’t confine his interest
in photographs to those in which spirits take
a hand. In his spare time he\is a vice-
chairman of the board of directors of
Raphael Tuck and Sons, the Christmas-card
people.
John McWhae earned much of the- credit
for smoothing out difficulties that stood in the
way of the consolidation of the Vic. Liberal
party. He had no axe to grind, as he wants
nothing: he would not and will not take
salaried office. Snowball, who is a much
more reasonable man in Parliament than in
his pet lodge, led the movement in the Liberal
party meeting which forced Lawson to seek
the good offices of Peacock.
The majority • for Mahon’s expulsion in-
cluded the three Westralian members pre-
sent in the House; the fourth, Gregory, who
paired for the motion, was away in Sydney
on business of the Public Works Committee.
Even Fowler, the freelance Nationalist, who
came from the West with Mahon in 1901,
turned his thumbs down. The only West-
ralian Representative with whom the expelled
member has ever been on friendly terms was
J. W. Kirwan, also of the 1901 vintage.
Ivirwan was defeated in 1903 by the 21-year-
old Charlie Frazer, and that was the end
of him in Commonwealth politics.
Y From the Federal Gallery:—
The speeches on Mahon’s expulsion were well worth
hearing. On the whole the ablest came from Fowler,
who maintained a fine spirit of impartiality, despite
the provocative sallies of the other side. Fowler
was further interesting for the fact that he did not
attend the party meeting that had agreed to down
Mahon. Though obviously partisan, Brennan also
spoke well, his Irish wit and expansive vocabulary
giving his oration quite a literary color. Hughes’s
opening yell and subsequent discourse on Tudor’s
amendment were the usual windy effusions without a
bright thought to excuse their passion. Ryan behaved
like an advocate who had been enlivened by fat
refreshers; yet his roar revealed forensic ability.
Makin tried hard to put himself right with his
conscience in defending a man whose sentiments he
publicly repudiated. It was a hard job, but his
pulpiteering manner gave his speech the appearance
of coming straight from the heart. Maxwell took
the prize for bathos.
Hugh Mahon comes from Tullamore,
King’s County, and is in his 63rd year. As
a young man he spent some time in Canada
and the United States, but got back to Ire-
land, associated himself with the Parnell
movement, and shared his • leader’s imprison-
ment in Ivilmainham Gaol in 1881-82. Health
giving way he was released and at once came
to Australia. For some years before going
to the West, in 1895, he did newspaper work
in Sydney.
The knightly David Hutchens, who died in
M.L. the other day, narrowly missed the
chairmanship of the Vic. Forestry Com-
mission. His age at the time (64) stopped
him. Owen Jones, the man selected, is only
about 34.
If Jimmy Cornell, M.L.C., is willing he
may be the Nationalist candidate for Kal-
goorlie. Jimmy is one of the Labor politi-
cians who seceded from the A.L.P. on the
conscription issue, and unlike most of the
others he didn’t suffer noticeably in personal
esteem. A former N. S. Wales shearer, he
hit the Chamber of Somnolence seven or
eight years ago, and
tickled the fancy of
his fellow-council-
lors with his rough-
cut speech and un-
conventional ways.
On one occasion
he gravely initiated
them into the mys-
teries of two-up.
Another time he
chided them for
their opposition to
the maternity
bonus, pointing out,
as a clinching ar-
gument, that “the
highest lady in the
land could get her
five quid and no
questions asked.”
Cornell went to the
war as a sapper,
and was aboard a
troopship in the
Channel when a
torpedo got' home.
Nowadays he is on
the executive of
the Returned Sol-
diers’ Association,
and is about the
most industrious
worker that body
has got.
CUNNINGHAM
one of the neicer
Labor members of
the House of Reps.
G. A. Moir, who was elected Federal
President of the A.N.A. last week, is head of
the legal firm of Gillott, Moir and Ahern.
He had to try a few times before getting on
the Vic. Board of Directors. Then he spun
to the top. Following his lead the Vic.
A.N.A. has decided to go baldheaded for
direct election of the convention that is to
revise the Federal Constitution.
James Wright Sawle, who died in Maori-
land recently, was a South Aus. pioneer,
and helped to grow part of the first ship-
ment of wheat that went from Croweater-
land to England. Afterward he was one
of M.L.’s early advocates of womanhood .suf-
frage and prohibition, but his attempt to get
into Parliament on this ticket failed. The
Southland Scot wasn’t ready to give up his
whusky in those days.
Charles Long, Dominions editor of the
Times, has been giving English readers his
impression of Australia. He records the
belief of Australians that politicians are
mostly insincere, “and are believed to be
playing a not too honest game for their own
advantage.” “Of this offending,” he added,
“Mr. Hughes, it seemed to me, is widely
regarded as the head and front.” And in-
stead of rushing to Hughes’s rescue the
Times throws this brick at him
In England and in Paris Mr. Hughes did not
seem when he was last here to matter very much.
His fondness for the merest fustian of 'rhetoric
destroyed a reputation for oratorical power which
he had gained, more, as it seemed, by some strange
good fortune than by desert, during his visit in
1916. He was querulous, platitudinous, vain, irrit-
able ; and his deafness made him, frankly, almost
unbearably tedious at the Conference table.
Ministers and others who lean on Hughes
feel the Times remarks keenly. After one
has gone to so much trouble and (public >
expense to surround one’s self with press-
agents to create the right atmosphere, such
things are most disconcerting.
An infant which refused to observe the two
minutes’ silence arrived in Paddington at
the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the
eleventh month. For this offence it is to
be burdened, so it is threatened, with the
name of John Armistice Hour.
THE UNKNOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The body of an unknown soldier was buried with
national honors in Westminster Abbey on the anni-
versary of Armistice Day.”
Lo, the heir of the ages comes
To his own in the beat of the muffled drums,
In the drooping of flags, in the cry of the pen
That sobs afar to the hearts of men.
Room for the conqueror ! Bare the head!
Here we honor our noblest dead !
None shall know his name,
Through the years of years;
None shall speak his fame,
Blind with pride of tears;
Battle wheels shall rust,
Pattle mists shall clear,
While the great man’s dust
Lies for ages here,
Calling still and calling
Through the new world’s youth:
“I, for honor falling,
Died to save the truth.”
The deed is done;
And the strong world swinging
Under the sun
Has songs for singing
All the white way
That never the gun
Nor the wild red fear
May silence away.
For his dust is near;
And the great red sword
Of his broken youth
Guards holy truth.
Laid in French soil in English land,
He sleeps that men may understand
The faith that in the last appeal
Is more than flame and flying steel.
The awful menace rose and fell;
Hate lit the world with fires of Hell,
Till unknown manhood, sealed to death,
Broke the grey legions with a breath.
His work is done.
Low let him lie,
While the children run
Unfearing by,
And the ages stand with uncovered head
To honor the noblest, nameless dead.
x.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.
THE LIFE-SAVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Acting Justice James was last evening pre-
sented with the gold badge of the Royal Life-saving
Society in recognition of his services.”
—S. M. Herald.
He never plunged into the sea
And saved from death by drowning
Some surfer, white from neck to knee,
Though elsewhere warmly browning.
No bolting motor-car he checked;
No frenzied equine halted ;
He never risked his life and recked
It cheap in mood exalted.
But he did leap on to the Bench,
’Midst curses loud and hearty •
(Insults at which he scorned to blench),
To save the Labor Party.
N.S.W.
D.


%Ik
• f
ft
POST-WAR.
FIFTEEN
'/■ ; •
'■{ >i
> ! 1: s
; i
3i. .?• ,
k lift / i 1
:
!■ 3 :i
:>-v
1/ \M~.A
»,*m> si !
Si >
: MM ‘lff'i I ~
i ; iff', mi: ',
j. f ; 7* y;,tf i
i : -am; i H'.:;
i•: i !;|: . ,? !>l7* . g
ll|] :
II
'. f L: 1
I
iil
nf
3:
/r/"
J-» &‘< Si
» i/fil
'S
£
w-fr
*r.
<&£&
sskss
X»»K
oOuvwvu
5®
y.s.s-
-:::S
■.-.rx^'we/ioc^.vjoK
compels
Admiration of Appearance and Performance
Even before you examine it closely you are quite carried away by
the beauty of its coachwork and the luxury and comfort of the
equipment of the “Wolseley” Post-War Fifteen. When you see
the perfection and exquisite finish of the engine and chassis, you
understand why this model was one of the only two post-war models
deemed worthy of mention by the British Engineer. Fuither-
more, when you realise that this same model has- successfully
negotiated an
Overland Run from Brisbane to Melbourne, via Sydney,
under the most appalling weather and road conditions, maintain-
ing an
Average Actual Running Time of 102 Miles Per Day
you are fully convinced that the “Wolseley” Post-War ‘‘Fifteen’
is indeed a leader among cars of the very highest grade.
Its complete weight is under 23cwt. whilst taken from thestripped
chassis weight of 16cwt. and brake-horsepower of 45h.p., the
power-weight ratio equals 3h.p. to the cwt.
Full Information respecting the “Wolseley ”
Post-War Model ‘‘Fifteen” on request.
VICTORIA.
D ' LG 6 ®S Y B?uSbe ! Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH W T ALES.
I)ALGETY treet, Sydney.
Representatives:
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
RICHARDS, LTD.,
64 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
•LTD., 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE ARMSTRONG MOTOR & CYCLE
AGENCY, LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
o. w. 2SS2T
WINTRINGHAM & MITCHELL, Blenheim.
WOLSELEY MOTORS, LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia, 125 William Street, Melbourne.
(Proprietors: Vickers Ltd.)
Works:
Adderley Park,
Birmingham,
England.


A Good Hat for Summer.
The Peapes-style Hat illustrated is one of the popular
“Warrigal” brand—an Australian pure fur-felt hat of
good quality.
It is light in weight, and its 2|in. flat set brim
affords ample shade. A practical, comfortable hat
for hot days.
The felt is fine and smooth in finish, the crown of
medium height, brim unbound. The band is lj
inches deep, with bow at side.
Colors: Grey, Fawn, Steel.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA: 30/-
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size and color required.
New catalogue just published—sent on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
If Worry or Overwork is Taking too Heavy a Toll try
A.B, WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
Pleasant and
Exhilarating:-
A.B
»))>
On.
SISTERE
(Registered.)
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD,, Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD.. Bazaar Terrace. Perth. Agents for West Australia.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., 85 Currie Street, Adelaide, Agents for South Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE REALLY IMPORTANT JOURNEY.
“I would go through the fires of Hell for
you.”
“Yes, hut how much of your hanking account
will you go through?
“8.T.”: When we first went to board at
Mrs. Spicer’s we were mildly interested in
the lady’s reminiscences of the person she
called the late Mr. Spicer. The late Spicer
was not dead, it seemed ; he was merely late
—so late this time that he had not come
home for five years. Mrs. Spicer’s great con-
cern, we gathered, was due to the fact that in
all that time she had not been able to Visit
retribution on her husband’s head —not once
been able to make him feel the weight of her
hand or the length of her tongue. Then came
the night when we heard a scratching at the
back door, and a plaintive voice appealing to
Ann to let it in. The appeal was so long and
so touching that at .length Miss Crive, from
the next apartment north, went down to
acquaint Mrs. Spicer with the circumstance.
She found her sitting by the stove. “I know,
I know,” exclaimed the landlady. “It’s him.
It’s Spicer.” “Well, what are you going to
do, Mrs. Spicer?” “I’m waitin’,” said Mrs.
Spicer significantly, “for the water to boil.”
She had a wash-up pan of water on the
stove. Meanwhile the appeal of the man
without continued in low, touching, insistent
tones. Then we heard the fanlight opened,
a splosh, and a howl. At breakfast we got
further details. “He’s sittin’ out in the yard.”
Mrs. Spicer explained. “I’ve done him up in
cotton wool. You see it’s bin all a slight
mistake. The lady that lived here before, it
turns out, lost her husband too. This one
ain’t Spicer!”
* * * *,
“II.”: Amongst the discomforts of the
French and Flemish trenches were the
midges that came over in clouds. Poison gas
didn’t seem to affect them, and their stings
were horribly irritating, though the itch
didn’t last long. One evening Ave greeted the
twilight with a sectional hopover. “Blime,”
said a big Queenslander to me, while we Avere
hanging on to our new possie, which had
been Fritz’s, “it’s a treat, ain’t it, to get
away from those blanky midges!”
* * *■ *
“Ex-Dig.”: I was in London when the
Armistice arrived, and had 3s. lid. in my
pocket. It wasn’t much, but it Avas enough.
Maroons gave the signal for all London to
throw aside its Avork and burst into noise,
and in the exuberance of the moment a publi-
can insisted upon shouting for me. Then I
met perfect strangers who also insisted upon
shouting. The day was a long dream of
revelry ; and I still have misty recollections
of many hotels; girls with ribbons, badges
and flags, whose one object in life seemed to
be to decorate Australian soldiers; an inebri-
ated Tommy colonel, who appointed himself
my host; Avild rides in stertorous taxicabs and
motor-’buses, and a brief sojourn in an un-
known theatre where vaudeville had become
delirious. In the end I caught an aeroplane
for home; and my landlady’s infant daughter,
a pal of mine, was picking the flags from
my uniform and decorating herself when I
awoke, fully dressed. And I still had the
3s. lid. London, usually hard on the Dig-
gers’ pockets, had forgotten itself.
“D. Empson” gets on the fringe of a
tnystery
It was 5 o’clock, the sun Avas vising and the
army of milk-ohs came roaring through the streets
of Bilgewater. Then it was that occurred that
mysterious episode in the life of Parch-
ment, our senior vestryman and respect-
able family solicitor.
I heard the shot fired, and Bill, the
dispenser of cow-fluid, gave me his evi-
dence as I reclined on my verandah-bed,
illustrating the ingenuous narrative with
our blue jug and his half-pint measure.
Said William: “I was cornin’ over the ’ill
(Parchment lives on the ’ill; I dwell in
the ’ollow at the end of the street), w’en
old Parchy ducks outer the front dore in
’ees perjamas, follered by Mrs. Parch, in
’er perjamas. ’Ed ’ad a rervolver in ’ees
right ’and. I ’eard ’im say: ‘ ’Ell,
woman,’ an’ ’e ups an’ lets fly—bang!
Then ’e gives an ’oiler groan an’ lies flat
on ’ees back. Mrs. Parch, sings ? out like
mad an’ falls on ’er knees, an’ starts
sinoothin’ ’er pore ’usband’s ’ead. An’
there they was for two or three minits,
with me screwin’ ’em a treat an’ wonder-
in’ if I oughter drive to the doctor’s or
telephone the p’lice, w’en suddenly the
dead man jumps on ’ees feet, chucks the
rervolver in the geranyum-bush, puts ’ees
arm round ’ees skirt an’ lugs ’er inside.
An’ before I knoo w’ere I was I was
screwin’ a shut door. Wotter y’ think
it was, mister —’tempted sooicide, re’ears-
in’ for the pitchers, or a game ’e Avas
puttin’ up on the ole girl,?”
I said I didn’t know, and I don’t know
yet. But at 9.5 that morning Parchment
walked by', pink carnation in buttonhole,
a picture of bourgeois contentment and
unctuous self-sufficiency. And the wife
tells me that Mrs. P. was more than usually voluble
in the afternoon at the ladies’ croquet club about
the blameless character of her lord.
* * * . *
“Audio”: The pitfalls spread for the un-
wary feet of foolish virgins do not always
take the form of motor-cars and chocolates.
In our street there lurks an economical
amorist who spreads a less costly web. He
owns a ham-and-beef emporium. There are
hundreds of girls in the neighborhood who
spend their days behind bales of dress
materials or typewriters or hurry home from
rehearsal to prepare for an evening perform-
ance and who buy their evening meals in
the made-up state. A maiden whose appear-
ance pleases the greasy Juan behind the
counter can be sure of getting her meat very
cheaply, and, after a couple of visits, he will
refuse to take any money at all, even adding
a few delicacies to the tiny order. It thus
came about that one careless wench on
examining her conscience found she had lost
woman’s chiefest jewel for six pounds of pork
chops, four ham and chicken sausages, a
quantity of c “li-beef and a bottle of pickles.
LIFE IS ONE PERPETUAL KISS.
“You only kiss me now when you want
money.”
“Gracious, George, isn’t that often enough?”
“S.C.": I cite as the most remarkable
“routine order” ever issued the following,
which was aimed at all ranks of the Aus-
tralian Mounted Division in the Judæan
hills:
Several oases have been reported of graves rifled
by natives. As the primary cause of such rifling is
the desire of the natives to secure boots for the rainy
season, burial-officers are to instruct their parties to
remove the boots from bodies before interment.
It was a typically military method of coping
with the situation. It didn’t stop the dese-
cration : it only annoyed the desecrators by
giving them a lot of digging for nothing.
* * * *
“Rounds”: A St. Kilda murder or man-
slaughter is a fine fat morsel for the Mel-
bourne police. The young men who
have made a certain confession were
arrested within two or three days of
the event, and there was nothing to prevent
the case being disposed of right away.
But such expedition does not suit the police.
They want to gleam in the limelight as long
as possible, and the absurdity of police-court
remands is necessitated by a ridiculous delay
in inquesting the late Mr. Davidson. Shot
on November 2, the inquest has been delayed
until the 19th. Why?
* * * *
“Nine-ounce Mug”: Knibbs’s figures
(B. 28/10/’2O) showing the convictions for
drunkenness per 10,000 in N. ,S. Wales and
Victoria 'respectively from 1913 to 1917 are
unfair to the Ma State. The Victorian
statistics of the morning after the night be-
fore are notoriously faked. In the Cabbage
State “offenders are generally discharged on
a first appearance and no conviction is re-
corded, a similar procedure being also adopted
in the case of those arrested on Saturday and
detained in custody till Monday.” The
urbane Knibbs adds the bland comment:
“The logic of excluding these cases from the
list of convictions is certainly open to doubt.”
I should shay sho.
* * * *
"Good Australian’s cry for help :
Is there no place where the vandals are at rest?
Now comes forward an official of the Yic. Botanical
Department who says the Grampians wonderland,
near Stawell, is being slowly and surely destroyed.
During 20 years this scientist has noted there 750
distinct specimens of native flora; but they are
yearly decreasing, because they are ruthlessly up-
rooted. One small area known as “The Wild Flower
Garden,” where the official collected 200 species of
native blooms, has lately been taken up by a
selector, who is ploughing in these rare Australian
flowers to plant apples. Can’t this beautiful spot
be made a sanctuary for native fauna and flora and
declared a national park for ever?
“Macquarie Street” on the latest craze :
I hear that a circle for the study and elucidation
of psycho-analytical problems by Freudian methods
is in course of formation amongst Sydney ladies.
They would be well advised to busy themselves about
something else; for this abstruse subject is full of
pitfalls for the unwary, requires expert handling,
and if experimented with by untactful and over-
enthusiastic disciples might
be productive @f much
harm to individuals who
have sensitive natures and
no sense of humor. One
would not like to be
regarded as a Casanova by
one’s circle of acquaint-
ances because one happened
to dream of flying, or
climbing, a high mountain.
Victims of hysteria or
neurasthenia might be as
chaste as Diana, yet a
Freudian interpretation of
their dreams might class
them with Messalina or
Theodora. Freudians aver
that all dreams express a
wish ('that’s where the
danger of amateur dab-
bling would come in), and
that our dream-thoughts
are too shocking and de-
praved to be expressed
otherwise than symboli-
cally. Dreams are divided
into a Manifest and a
Latent Content. The Mani-
fest Content, having had to
pass an Argus-eyed endo-
psychic censor, is innocent,
to all appearances; but a
clever and not too scrupu-
lous psycho-analyst could
make the Latent Content
horrible and unsavory
enough to satisfy the most
morbid fancy. Far better
not to mention your dreams
anywhere in the presence
of strangers. You may
stumble across a Freudian.
“Sangre”: I gather from my Melbourne
doctor that gentlemen willing to supply a
pint or so of blood for a consideration can
be found without difficulty. It comes in
handy when a patient needs transfusion of
blood, and his relations and friends lack the
power or the will to supply the liquid, to have
a professional to fall back upon. I
don’t know what the price per pint is, but
no doubt the cost of corpuscles has gone
up too.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket”: Bondi has furnished the
first surfing comedy of the season: it might
be called ‘‘Miss Snip Gets Even, or the
Dressmaker’s Revenge.” Miss Snip was
annoyed at the failure of a statuesque lady
to pay for her gay raiment, and stealthily
tracked her to the beach. There the impe-
cunious beauty lowered herself into a bath-
ing costume and paced elegantly into the
Pacific; whereupon Miss Snip stole into
her cubicle and made off with a parcel of
unpaid-for garments. She left a note to
say that she would hold the apparel until
the cash arrived : and when an exasperated
woman who had had to reayh home in a
borrowed kimono tried to have the sewing-
MOULTED.
THE BEAST: “You used to. sag there teas
something about me you liked.”
BEAUTY: “Yes, hut you've spent it all now.”
lady punished for theft, the magistrate was
disgustingly unsympathetic. What hurt the
lady most was that, in removing her own pro-
perty, Miss Snip inadvertently bore away
portion of Beauty’s splendid thatch.
(Continued on page 18.)
TOMMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see him as a youngster, English-bred,
Cheery and stout and fair and thick of head.
They took him from the place where he was born,
From the red poppies blazing in the corn ;
The swift, clear, pebbled river with its trees
Nodding and sighing in the valley breeze,
And the green slope- beside the old larch wood
On which his yeoman father’s cottage stood.
No hatred stirred within him, no romance,
When presently he walked ashore in France.
I see him reach the mud and shattered teak
Which formed a road of feat past Zillebeke.
His straight and friendly gaze rests here and there,
Empty of terror, empty, too, of care.
Bravely he trudges through the driving rain,
Until, by unimagined dread and pain,
And a black wilderness of noise and stench,
He and his mates win safely to their trench.
A thousand things that trouble and defile
He bore with his indomitable smile.
Fighting one day through what was once a town
Anguished, yet gay, the avalanche came down.
He who had never hated, never known,
Sees with clear, angry' eyes how life has flown.
He sees the vain old fools who failed to stem
A tide of death which never could touch them.
He went through Hell because they willed it so.
They built their fame on his unmeasured woe.
Those who mis-used him while he drew life’s breath,
They and their gauds are with him still in death.
I think, if such a one had had his way,
No marshal would have made a gala day,
And no diplomatist have walked in pride
Amongst the common ones for whom he died,
llather he would have had them lay him down
Amongst the dead of some small English town,
And, standing where the bugles blew his knell,
Such humble folks as mourned him when he fell.
N.S.W.
JOHN POLDING.


®S®3
’m
msl?::"-
= *:-r 2 5*-:
r^rironCp^^
ms
>-
Bg*ft
lujpnu'cnnajv^iuumiikiju
.r«vi-.V4
.- ’ -:
1811
mm
m
limiß ffTflTl Ismiiil (men
wag
fe'S
rtf
w:j
r..
[ring
J-5
Ui-
If p h..,_'
—pMapUlU^l!
|tti rr» I trj rn R nr* I*** 'v ■ fTl ri
ii|Hi|n«»w<ii»rmMwmwv»>rn«-UTOUCOtmw
Hir r f
r^r.-^<|rr/- CCCf^Crr f rfr;; - LCCCc CCCcc7
,;J:£; C -CC£Pcrr«\*.~_* ~ - C cr r rr C
CCffltt
u« Cl (I
» U «f t t
pi SS-V-S
t«tfF
i;i
rrm
etc
StTTi i ’ * !cscsS§i-’ :
|»l5 ?i c i
e c
SB
E«Slt
err
sil_! f( SE
. ;; = C c
fim-i
ll
nmlwif
188 §fc lw«*
mm Jiilld!
mt
i&sU
:
til®
4%5%m ■
Clfr
Lffti
Sis
t I
0
w--:
f.i •;:
rp
'rrn'-.fit! '-fra 1
[t -rt 1 - I 'S F - r ;^ s
t(>! >gn
i jj
fr r
fPSIs
ii I-
«S?r.*-.S
-.,-ffU
! 'rt!‘
MO:F?=
i.W *
M
pel"?-?
ptewr
'.'VH.
?-?-
H
P*
-r i J •
S±i3
Ci-:,il
:Rr«!
?
mmlm,
iliHi
«r.
mm
aUT!
mm
UJ
m.
i i
Pi
mmmmm
m
SS!
Mmk
m.
VV.iv'A.V
ays
p?p
ISS!
«-®S»
*• '.to v '^B
1
111103
f
jßo£MirJwu:i.
nft
i' r,r on
Cfirt;
T-'ff
AEOLIAN HALL,
f NEW YORK
HEADQUARTERS AND FACTORY ORGANISATION OF THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. L D
CONFIDENCE
is the corner-stone of the
entire commercial edifice !
PARTICULARLY in the piano business is confidence an essential to successful business.
Ninety-nine persons out of a hundred do not possess sufficient knowledge to appraise
correctly the comparative value of different player-pianos.
Therefore, when purchasing a player-piaip, the great majority of people are compelled to trust
somebody. The conspicuous success of the Pianola Company (in selling pianos containing the Pianola
as well as pianos without it) has been attained by the confidence inspired in the music-loving public.
This is due not only to the high character of the instruments produced by the ‘Pianola Company, but also
by the sound principles under which these instruments are sold. Our platform from the beginning has
been equal treatment to all.
There are no concessions obtainable by one purchaser that are not open to all. Every
price-tag on a Piano or a Pianola at Pianola Hall means exactly what it says.
In stores which have a secret, sliding scale of prices, you* can never be sure of any-
thing. It is not a sound business principle to price a piano so high that there is room for
an elastic system of special discounts and rebates. If you are offered a secret discount,
how can you know that some more favored purchaser is not receiving a much larger
discount ?
It is by- strict observance of methods which retain public confidence that
a chain of Pianola Branches, extending around the world, has been made
possible, and the largest business in the entire music industry has been created.
The Pianola Company ES:
(Trade Mark “AEOLIAN”)
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
436 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
Following is a list of the various musical instruments, the manu-
facture and sale of which 'are controlled hy The Pianola Company.
The Weber Piano
Tbe Steck Piano
Tbe Stroud Piano
Tbe Farrand Piano
The Pianola Piano
Steinway Pianola Piano
The Duo-Art Pianola
The Aeolian Vocalion (“Greatest of Phonographs”)
The Aeolian Pipe Organ for Private Residences.
Each of these instruments is standard in its class and represents
the maximum value anywhere obtainable for its price.
1037


Clerks! Qualify ant!
Win Promotion.
Don’t wait, for promotion. Earn it.
Master our Accountancy Course, win your
Degree, and success is certain. Thousands
of our students doubled and trebled their
salaries this way. You can (lo the same.
Write or call f-or a free copy of our book
“Accountancy”—shows you clearly how to
qualify —the cost, etc. Apply to nearest
address.
SEND FOR
THIS FREE
BOOK .
It
%
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings
Custom Street.
“FIRST IN 1887—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
[1
STM
LASER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Silas Snell’s” domestic catastrophe :
He walked up the garden path and encountered
Melling on the front verandah doctoring a wire
bird-cage. He was an undersized man. Melling
thought he bad seen him in Crighton’s store. He
raised his hat. “Good day,” he said. “It’s a nice
da3\” Melling thought they were going to have
some rain. The stranger believed it would do
good. “You are surprised to see me here,” he went
on, “but the fact is I want to marry your daughter.
I have seen her at the store, and I have been think-
ing it over for several days. Now I haye quite made
up my mind. I should like the marriage to take
place before the harvest, if you don’t mind.” The
stranger impressed Melling. His Martha was no
longer young ; the idea of her catching one had long
been abandoned. “Gome in,” said the housefather,
“and we’ll talk it over with mum.” The matter
was talked over with mum. Mum seemed pleased
with the bright idea, so the lady herself
was called in. “This is the young feller wants to
marry yeh,” said Melling. But the young fellow
had arisen and taken up his hat. “I am very sorry,”
he said in his brisk, business-like way. “I hope you’ll
excuse me, but I am in the 'wrong house.” And he
went away.
* * * *
On April 27, 1921, the jubilee of the
A.N.A. will be celebrated. The first meet-
ing called to establish the Association was
held on April 24, 1871, at Grim wood’s pub,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. Three days
afterwards effect was given to the proposal,
and the first title selected was “Victorian
Natives’ Friendly Society.” That was too
narrow, and so was the “Victorian Natives'
Association” substituted in the following
June; so on April 25, 1872, it became the
“Australian Natives’ Association.” Of this
MA KING DOUBLY SURE.
S HE: “I don’t like that young Simpson; I
wouldn’t trust him too far.”
JEALOUS HUSBAND: “No. Nor too near,
either.”
small concern J. W. Fleming, afterwards
Mayor of Brunswick, was president. When
organised on present lines, with a board of
directors for branches, Tom O’Callaghan,
then a detective and afterwards Chief of
Police, was made ruler for the first year.
O’Callaghan looked about 50 the other night
when he was at the A.N.A. Federal Council
dinner, although he must be nearer 80.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Even the Papuans, most con-
servative of peoples, are yielding to the in-
sidious influences of civilisation —not only in
the minor matter of eschewing cannibalism
(if there is a chance of being found out),
but in much more serious affairs, such as the
choosing of names for one’s offspring. This
used to be a matter of grave concern, for the
child had to be named after some concrete
WHEN THEY GOT OUT OF THE
STRAIGHT.
“Push off, brothe r— there's no place like
home.”
“Tha'sh a good job; sho it doeshn't matter
mush inhere we pull up, doesh it?”
object, and this had to be considered from a
magical and luck-bringing point of view
as well as with an eye to general suitability.
Such names as Ame (a stone club), Aina
(the white cockatoo), Bauwa (the dracsena
plant), Iwari (sweat) and Owa (the crow)
I frequently met among the Binandele, of
the Mambare. Now one hears of something
new. A native policeman’s wife presented
her John Hop with twin boys. In the old
days one of the two would have died suddenly,
but in this case the lady consulted the con-
stabulary officer, her official “head,” as to
naming the new Government kids. He sug-
gested Jalines and John, explaining the mean-
ings of the names as well as he could. The
lady returned later and with an air of finality
announced the kids would be called “Buki”
(the book in which the names of the native
constabulary are enrolled) and “Offisi” (the
office which is the centre of the local police
world). They made it so, and Buki and
Offisi will probably answer to the A.N.C.
roll-call about 1938.
* * * *
By the med.-officer of a mental hospital:—
Doubtless the uninstructed public should not read
books on psycho-analysis, on the functions of the
pancreas, on sputum examination and other medical
subjects. “M.D.” (B. 4/11/’2O) is so far right. But
he is wrong in thinking that “Freudism”—the popu-
lar term for certain modern theories of psychology —
is dead, even in conservative England. Some leading
alienists have been converted already, and the num-
ber is growing. It is recorded that when Harvey
announced his discovery of the circulation of the
blood, “he fell off mightilie in his practice, and
all the physitians were against him.” The “phy-
sitians” included the Allbutts and the Armstrong-
Joneses of his time. “M.D.’s” attitude is that of
the respectable female who said: “I won’t have my
boy learnt physiology. It ain’t no use, and, what’s
more, it’s rude.” We are getting away from that
point of view nowadays. Those who are trying to
work at the tremendously important problem of men-
tal disease should be grateful to anyone who will
show them a path out of the maze in which they
have groped so long. The Freudians may be travel-
ling in a wilderness full of devils, but at least they
are moving, and will get somewhere in time.
“Sixenate” : It is woman’s flair for romance
that leads to her undoing. A Sydney lady
who lately asked that a rusty and irk-
some matrimonial chain should be sundered
amazed the. Court by admitting that the
acquaintance began when the gent, snatched
her purse and was gathered into the arms
of the Law. Instead of prosecuting the
nefai’ious person she married him. Had Fate
been a novelist of the good old Garvice breed
it would have made the forgiven youth repent,
lead a virtuous life, become his wealthy uncle’s
heir, and inherit the property after uncle
had conveniently perished in a motor acci-
dent. In actual fact, the graceless ruffian
deserted the victim of romance, after annex-
ing all her portable possessions, and eloped
with a peroxided barmaid.
* * * *
“F.G.H.”: I support “Country Bed” (P>.
28/10/’2O) in liis con-
tention that the start-
ing age in schools
should be advanced a
couple of years—not'
only in Victoria, but
throughout the Com-
monwealth. The
medical profession is
pi’etty well agreed
nowadays that the
organs of a child of
six are too rudiment-
ary to adapt them-
selves without injury
to the requirements of
modern schoolwork.
Such afflictions a s
eye-strain and ner-
vous illnesses are in-
creasing, and many
adults can trace the
origin of their troubles
to 'the confinement
and application of the
schoolroom. When in
the teaching seiwice
my experience showed
me that children com-
mencing at six were
wasting two or three
years over work they
could comfortably
master in less than l 2
months by commenc-
ing at nine—an indi-
cation that it is
approximately at this
age that the mind and
organs-of a child be-
come sufficiently de-
veloped to support the
close application
necessary in school-
work.
“Solomon Malaprop” gives notice :
Now and then an elderly, sober and previously
law-abiding citizen commits a homicide so un-
accountable that the Law flushes all over its bald
and flustered head and says it was “temporary in-
sanity.” Yet very often the doer of the deed
was quite sane and had an explanation, but it
looked so unlikely that he considered it not worth
while to supply it. As a case in point I contemplate
three unaccountable homicides, and when they come
off I wish you to know the reason. Every morning
just before sunrise I am wakened by three men
running past my bedroom window. I have never
seen them yet, but I am going to. They run in
single file and the last one has the heaviest and
most clumpy boots and the biggest feet. They are
always late, so they never walk—they run and clump.
I suspect they have something to do with the adja-
cent tramway depet. I assume that they, all live
in the same house, which accounts for their accursed
simultaneousness. I think the son runs first and
the father next and the grandfather last. Life hav-
ing become a burden, I am going to stretch a rope
across the road on the day after next public holiday,
tying the other end of it to Judah P. Benjamin’s
doorbell opposite. When the three fall over it I
will shoot them from behind with an automatic and
then retire. The violent ringing of the door-Tbell will
bring out Judah P. Benjamin in his night-shirt to
remove the rope and the bodies.
“Copabella”: Hard-headed and wary, the
firm did not take much stock in spooks, but
when all means, natural, unnatural and
police, tad been taken to trace a confiden-
tial employee who had disappeared, it lent
ear to a suggestion of one of the faithful
that the supernatural aid of a medium should
be invoked; and a motor-car, two members
of the firm and a kitbag of the lost one’s
clothes were put at the lady’s service. A
preliminary trance in the firm’s office dis-
closed that the probable scene of the dis-
appearance was a lonely spot on the Port
Phillip bayside, and thither the research-party
w T ent. Recovering from a second trance
there, the medium, glassy-eyed and with
streaming hair, set upon a 12 miles p.h.
trail of the lost. She “cast” like a -hound,
doubled like a hare, zig-zagged like a tack-
ing yacht, always at express speed, always
without result, while at her fleeting heels
panted two well-fleshed pillars of commerce.
With a final burst of pace the prophetess
brought up in the middle of a half-grown
cx-op paddock, where she' collapsed at the
feet of the perspiring merchants and lay
groaning. “My. God !” breathed one of the
investigators, with some vague idea of blood-
hounding in his mind, “she’s lost the scent!”
He raced back to the distant car, tore open
the kitbag and came panting back with a
pair of the lost one’s pyjamas. He thrust
them under the nose of the reviving medium.
“Here,” he said excitedly, “smell these!”
The lady, was so incensed at his conception
of her mission that she gave up the search
in disgust. The lost is still lost.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: One of Sydney’s
best-known snuggeries, the Custom House
Hotel, in Macquarie-place, which presently
comes under the hammer, is built upon an
historic site. In the earliest moments of last
century it was granted on a 14-years’ lease to
Alexander Thompson, of The Hawkesbury,
the same who, dying, left Governor Mac-
quarie a part of his estate. The house built
by Thompson later became St. Philip’s par-
sonage, the home of Archdeacon Cowper,
father of Charles, the frequent Premier of tire
days, before Parkes and Robertson. As
civilisation progressed it was soon, of course,
far too valuable a site for a parsonage or a
church or anything of that sort; and a bar
took the place of the archdeacon’s study.
*** " *
In Ballarat the members of several unions
have solemnly resolved to drink water till
the price of beer has been reduced. This is
the newest application of hydraulic power.
**> * -
. “Stripper”: At a little tin tabernacle
away to Billykt in the malice, a mixed mob
of us used to attend divine service every
Sunday afternoon. The parson had to ride
20 miles to reac'h us, and always brought our
mail with him, taking a delight in delivering
it. before church. He must have been sur-
prised at the general interest shown in a
telegram received every Sabbath by Tim
Duggan, and must have wondered at the
demonstrations of joy or mourning it called
forth. He had a dead set on gambling, but
never suspected that we were almost all
members of a “syndicate,” or that the weekly
message gave us the results of a betting wire
dispatched per special courier every Satur-
day morning. And nobody was ever cruel
enough to tell him.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: One of the first volunteers
for the Australian Graves Section, now
combing the fighting areas for the unmarked
graves, of dead Australians, was a Digger
whose chum had been killed at Bullecourt.
To the Priminister he wrote that from time
to time he had made attempts to discover
where his friend had been buried, and that
he wanted his discharge in order to continue
the search. The Graves Section was then
in process of formation, and the faithful
mate eagerly accepted- an invitation to join.
His letter to Hughes mentioned Bill’s sister
ANOTHER VIRTUE MISSING.
“We girls are never understood.”
“Yes, but you never try to make yourselves
plain.”
in a way that hinted a romance. It will
be three years after the Armistice before
they can see each other again, and it is to
be hoped that she will be' as true to him as
he has been to Bill.
THE NEW PERIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
... R the parties in Emu Park, ‘known to me,’ who
think' they should meddle in my business and inter-
fere with what I wear, don’t mind their own busi-
ness, I know just how to deal with them.” — Mysteri-
ous proclamation in Rockhampton Gazette.
To those who meet in Emu Park
On criticism bent,
Whether by day or after dark,
And furtively give vent
To comments, on the clothes I wear,
I have but this to say: Beware!
Beware the word of cold dispraise
Expressed behind the hand;
The titter which contempt betrays,
The sneer, the reprimand,
The hollow laugh, the scornful stare—
Cut out all such! Desist! Forbear!
The spirit-form of Katie Guff
Has entered my employ ;
The lady having had enough
Of life as a decoy
For those who the confiding • trap
With wooden things which hop and rap.
Her job on earth for years to come
Will be to float around
Where slanderous suggestions hum,
And, without sign or sound,
Take down all libels one by one
For use when the attacks are done.
No longer will her earthly toil
Be done within a hall
Where futile persons tables spoil
At some dead stranger’s call.
She will be otherwise employed
And at the thought is overjoyed.
So let the folks of Emu Park
Be careful what they say:
The captious critic and the nark
Have had their 'evil day.
The spirits which around us lurk
Propose to turn to honest work.
N.S.W.
D. J.


R‘:W
m
tip 1
«b=SJSSCT^
A
!• "*#
4 \ !
t ■
a& J *■ if
— r v >:;-y; ■-? ■■■■>;.;
emgM swsf». . . ‘ ’
;
1
/
d #
1
sm?.
r\
-•I
ss
m
" ' • .' H; 'rX'Mi
k * y : y% - v ' f*s , j y|
Pt
V ,N
r
«£&
{pH
m
X
//,
> t
\
@H
*» -v -—*%
J
o
9


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
m
1] R. TOWNS & CO'., Sydney Agents.
t
Suffer from
Eczema No Longer
Greet with open arms the marvellous
discovery which eradicates every sign
of all skin troubles, leaving the skin
clear and fresh. This wonderful
curative ointment is
Recommended by eminent medical
men. Get a tin to-day from your
chemist, 5/6 and 7/6, or cut this
advt. out and send 1/6 with it for
special sample tin to
MALYON & SON, Chemists,
Sturt Street, Ballarat,
VICTORIA.
A Signal Soenss
4 * It
552
eorgelV
waanm'S'
The TQP-NOTCHScotck
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Chihuahua”: “Cooringa” on the subject
of humane rabbit traps reminds me of the shudder
I experience whenever I think of the devilish con-
traption now on the South Aus. market for catching
foxes. It consists of a number of prongs, each with
a barb on the end, which close together like the
tentacles of a cuttle-fish. The prongs are carefully
covered with old meat, and the trap is then sus-
pended about 4ft. from the ground. When Brer Fox
spots the meat he jumps for it, and as his jaws close
upon it the barbed prongs spring apart, prise his
mouth open and hold him hanging there until death
puts a merciful end to his agony.
“Nem” : In Gippsland, where rabbit-proof
fences are the rule, foxes, which are very plentiful,
take the 3ft. Gin. netting in their stride. On the
other hand, in the Northern districts, where netted
fences are rare, Reynard, with a dog in his wake,
throws in the towel on encountering a 27in. netted
fence. This is probably the reason why lamb losses
by foxes in the Northern districts are greater in
un-netted paddocks. Where the pest is bad some
graziers tie bells to the ewes’ necks to scare away
foxes, but a more efficacious method is to smear
the backs of new-born lambs with tar. Foxes won’t
touch tarred lambs.
* * * *
“Blacklip”: Very little seems to be known
to science about bGche-de-mer or trepang. At any
rate, I have been unable to find any systematic obser-
vations regarding the length of life or breeding-rate
of this slug. Apparently the reproduction is not
rapid. Reefs which used to abound with the fish—
beclie-de-mer is known as fish locally—now, owing to
constant working, show not a trace. That it is
a slow breeder is borne out by the “clean” banks
around Murray Island and Cape York. These banks
teemed with b©che-de-mer at one time, and, in the
case of Murray Island, have not been worked for
15 years. The only thing that is checking rapid
extinction elsewhere is that the good varieties, such
as deep-water black, teat and prickly, are seldom
found in less than five fathoms.
* * *
“F.I-1.R.” : That phrase “pursued his call-
ing” just suits my case. I’m a shearers’ cook, and
the shearers’ vote is my “call.” I left home one winter
a,nd travelled 200 miles to Moree (N.S.W.) before
I got a call. The next call was 40 miles nearer
home; the next one 150 miles closer still to wife
and kids. Four weeks later I hooked up the
old mare and drove as far as Ilillgrove—another
100 miles—before I heard the call. I pursued it all
right, and how much do you think I earned ? A
thousand? Hardly £7O. Of course, some years
the voice calls oftener and nearer. It would need
to, or I’d be pursuing some other illusion.
* * * »
“Zanthus”: Palms have a habit of setting
puzzles for the naturalist. There is a colony up
in the gorge of the Finke
River in Central Aus-
tralia ; they are the only
Ones for many hundreds
of miles. About two miles
up a creek that falls into
the Finke there is an-
other grove of the trees,
some of them 80 or 90
feet ’ high, growing at the
bottom of a deep gorge,
where there are permanent
springs. There are odd
palms in the Finke gorge
proper, and another big
bunch in Palm Glen, five
or six miles farther down
the river. In company with
them are cycads grow-
ing in the niches of
the rocks and not found
elsewhere in those parts.
The palms are cousins of
the Livistonias found on
the South Coast of N. S.
Wales. Apparently they
are a survival from a period
when Centralia had a
bigger rainfall —a period
when giant marsupials fed
on luxuriant vegetation in
the Lake Eyre basin and
the Macdonnells were a good deal higher than they
are now.
* * * *
“Mac”: The sugar ’possum is the only
animal I know of that builds a nest like a bird’s.
It is constructed of twigs and leaves, pieces of bark,
and any old thing that the builder can weave into it,
and is mostly-in the fork of a tree 20 or 30 feet
from the ground. The animal is about the size of a
half-grown cat —grey on back; under parts and
muzzle a delicate shade of tan. The head is small,
and the body is built on graceful lines; I think it
is the prettiest animal in the Australian bush. It
is easily tamed; even when captured full-grown it
is quite tractable in two or three days, and makes
an interesting pet. I have roamed the bush in three
States and have never seen it anywhere but on the
Lower Bellinger River (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Werrimee”: “Lignite’s” recent snake-
suicide yarn is very much depreciated by his follow-
ing statement that a lizard, - which had its tail
knocked off “in making its escape, ran against the
detached tail, was stung, and in about a minute
was dead.” There is only one poisonous lizard in
the world, and he doesn’t live here. If “Lignite”
can find an Australian reptile with a death-sting
in its tail and sends it to a museum or zoo his name* l
will be made.
therPsWAia n* ’ S , con tention that
is as Win! as S YY S / S em borsehandling
no feed ruts for ' ° UM b<!
ent rnternret/ious n g t S beCau ®,® so, « s squire diff er-
“Anvone P u P / ln temperament,
he continues vjJn 10 at ° P f al v d rides ’”
rules iust s's Hip ’- my 7 S a 1” bas hard and fast
mJpd t 7 h f 18 f hard . and fag t recog-
one’s nose vTS ® 3gal , nSt , Slnging through
e now people who acclaim such
HE JUST MISSED PERFECTION.
FIRST COCKY (on horseback) : “That cove ye've had wurrkin’ for yer arsked me fur a
job this mornin'. Was he a steady chap, Ryan?”
SECOND COCKY : He was. If he'd ha' bin inny stiddier he’d ha' bin motionless..”
singers as “champions,” and they remind me of
others who discover “champion horsemen.” Of
course no one will dispute the platitude that the
most successful horsebreakers are those who adapt
their methods to the peculiarities of the specimen
they happen to be dealing with, any more than they
will contradict one who says that the most successful
singers adapt their expression, etc., to the song
they' are singing ; but as the methods of some horse-
men are the exact opposite in principle and effect
to those of others, how is the Young Idea to be
guided when prejudice, ignorance, jealousy and con-
ceit make confusion ? Skilled labor and greater
production are the cries. Well, what about saving
75 per cent, of the time wasted by “methods” which
should be as obsolete as stone axes, and also saving
90 per cent, of those horses that are now crippled
in body and broken in spirit when they are first
handled ?
“Ragar”: There are pumpkins and pump-
kins, and here’s one of the others. Grown from seed
sent from England, it staggered the Papuans who
saw it, and they came from miles around to have a
look. It was planted in quite unprepared bush soil
not far from Moresby, the seed being placed in the
ground by the local missionary. The local trader
was noted for the wealth of adjectives he employed
when describing anything out of the way, but this
vegetable had him beat. It was carried up to his
store by six staggering natives, who slung it with
ropes to a pole which they bore on their shoulders.
It was sft. high and 12ft. lOin. around, and solid
meat all through, with very few seeds. The natives
cooked most of it, but it was too coarse to suit the
taste of the white men.
* * * *
“Te Pana” : “Malua,” in his par anent the
cheerful Fijian and his methods of killing a turtle,
might have hit the native to leg in respect of other
quaint ideas of animal torture. Sambula hates to
stir himself overmuch in the matter of tucker, and
before the poultry is due on the menu he catches
his chickens whenever they come in his way, and,
breaking their legs, slings ’em outside the door to
keep ’em fresh and handy. Straying dogs he deals
with in much the same way. Once he- used to tether
his missus by a sinnet rope woven through a slit in
the great toe; but Brother Mish shook his finger and
told Sambula he really mustn’t do that.
* * * *
“Deep Sinkin’ ”: Fresh vegetables are
a rare luxury on the Stuart Ranges opalfields, near
the heart of the continent. They have to be brought
by car 180 miles from the East-West ■ railway at
threepence a pound, and sometimes they fall off the
train or grow smaller as they near their destina-
tion. Our party was making out a list to be sent
up the thousand miles or so from Adelaide. “Order
a dozen bunches of spinach,” said someone.
“Spinach!” said the Old Identity of the district.
“Why, dammit, you’ve got acres of spinach all
around you. C’m’ere.” We came, and there, sure
enough, right under our very noses, after recent
bountiful rains were gardens of spinach growing
wild 1 We cooked it, and it turned out just the
.same as the cultivated variety in flavor, provided
you picked the young plants. We didn’t send our
vegetable-list, but ordered a couple of cases of lemons
instead. They don’t grow here. Not yet.
“8.N.J.”: As far as my experience goes
spraying or jetting sheep does not give absolute
immunit y> but it is easily the quickest, cleanest and
cheapest method yet devised for coping with the
blowfly trouble. One man with a good yard-dog to
help pen up and with a power-plant can spray 500
sheep properly in a day, and not a long day either.
The dip improves the wool, and the enhanced value
outweighs the cost of the operation. At Dalmally,
Roma (Q.), experiments extending over the past
six years with all dips and preventive measures show
that jetting with a mixture of 41b. arsenic and one
packet powder-dip to 100 gallons of water gives im-
munity for three months. At Orion Downs (Q.) they
have been jetting for nearly 25 years, and that seems
to prove something. I have given everything else
a good trial, and as- I have had to do the work
myself I know what I am talking about. This year
was one of the worst years for fly I have struck and
also the first time I have sprayed, and I give this plan
the palm. Even if it does not provide protection
for, say, six weeks (and it’s a moot point if crutch-
ing will) has anyone got a better, quicker and
cheaper way of fixing up blown sheep? If anyone
has I would like to know it.
“Alex.”: There’s a sparrow’s nest under
the verandah of my house. It holds six young ones.
On Sunday morning I watched the mother-bird
feeding her lodgers. In 30 minutes she served 2(;
meals consisting of beetles, flies and grubs. The old
man never once showed up during the proceedings.
Does father only work for himself? Or does he
go fishing on Sundays? •
THE PROSPECTOR.
HAIRY WILLIAM (just accepted): “Well,
what about it? Ain't you gointer kiss
a bloke?”
M AGGIE: “ Don't rusk me, Willy. I gotten
find a place first.”
“Wal”: Recent remarks on generating
power from the tides brings to memory the currents
of t}ie narrow waters of China Strait and the D’Entre-
casteaux Group (Papua). If ever there was a site
made for the project it is Samarai (Dinner Island).
I have seen an eight-knot steamer which should have
been going full speed ahead actually falling astern
at fully two knots when trying to negotiate China
Strait against the flood tide.
(Continued on page 22.)
HORSE O’ DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The road that runs through Greta Town
.... Runs on to Lochinvar,
And sometimes, when the night comes down
And fancy calls to me
To leave the beach Sv to leave the pines, to leave the
sounding sea
That wanders comfortless and wide,
I mount my horse o’ dreams and ride
Its miles ’neath moon and star.
My horse o’ dreams is fleet of hoof,
And windlike is his will;
Give him the ways that lie aloof
From mill and mart and stall,
The hills that climb, the deeps that gloom, lit lake
and waterfall,
And he will gallop, gallop far
From Greta Town to Lochinvar,
And on, and onward still.
Adown that northern road I ride
Upon my horse o’ dreams,
With farm and fence on either side,
A king of all indeed;
I have the whole world for my own—what more can
mortal need ?
By fertile field and field unsowed
Alone, alone I ride that road
Through all its glooms and gleams.
My horse o’ dreams he needs no spur,
No whip to urge his flight,
Nor do his hoof-strokes set astir
The echoes in the rocks
That thrice a night, and more than thrice, to owl
and prowling fox,
That hoot and bark, and swoop and creep,
Respond, like sleepers called from sleep
By sudden sounds at night.
SURE ’ NOUGH, HE 'ADN’T.
COUSIN JACK: “’Ave 'ee seen boy Matty
Reed 'bout anywhere?”
COUSIN JOHN : “No, I aren't seen un no-
where; un wha’s moore I wouldn’t knaw
un if I did.”
Perchance. I see some teamster’s camp,
W here, stretched beneath tall trees,
The teamster, from his long day’s tramp
Set free, takes toll of rest,
While stars creep on, creep ever on, above him to
the west,
And round about him silence dwells
Unbroken, save for bullock bells
Far-sounding on the breeze.
My horse o’ dreams he loves the roads,
And frets at bolts and bars
And narrow ways and cramped abodes;
His speed outstrips the wind;
With flying mane and flashing limbs and hoofs, he
leaves behind
The strife and clamor of the throng,
As down dark highways, broad and long,
He gallops ’neath the stars.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The FOREMOST AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS
are represented in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
OVER 2,000,000 COPIES ALREADY SOLD.
Volumes catering for every class of reader.
Write for a Complete Catalogue of
OVER 100 NOVELS.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the Commonwealth.
1/3 each All One Price — 1/4J posted
Novels by Some Popular Authors:—
AMBROSE PRATT:
“DAN KELLY —OUTLAW.”
“THREE YEARS WITH
THUNDERBOLT.”
“THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN
RANGE.”
EDWARD DYSON:
“FACT’RY ’ANDS.”
“LOVES OF LANCELOT/’
“BENNO AND SOME OF THE
PUSH.”
JACK McLAREN:
“THE SAVAGERY OF
MARGARET NESTOR.”
“RED MOUNTAIN.”
“SKIPPER OF ‘ROARING
. MEG.’ ”
DON DELANEY:
“THE CAPTAIN OF THE
GANG.”
“THE WHITE CHAMPION.”
“GENTLEMAN JACK.”
BEATRICE GRIMSHAW:
“THE CORAL QUEEN.”
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON.”
“QUEEN VAITI.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD:
“ALADDIN & BOSS COCKIE.”
“BILLY PAGAN, MINING
ENGINEER.”
“SILVER STAR.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT:
“SALLY: THE TALE OF A
CURRENCY LASS.”
“THE SIGN OF THE
SERPENT.”
ROY BRIDGES:
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S
SERVICE.”
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S
COMMAND.”
Now in the Press: —
The Bulletin’ 5 Book of Humorous Verses.
1/3 each; 1/41 posted.
Order Your Copy Now,
Published by
476 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Safe as a Bank!”
Gillette
The Gillette Safety Razor is built for
lifetime service. No cogs to wear —
no friction —because NO STROPPING,
NO HONING —and that means also no
waste of your time! Standard set in
leather case 28/6.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Gillette Stfety Razor Co-.
Canada.
5. Hofinong fit Co. Ltd..
Sydney. Brisbane,
k Adelaide.
m
>1
(\
•Jr
-*=7
Li
«h
\L
□
n
i \s
M
B
%NOWN THE
WORLD ove™
The above trade-mark
appears on every Gillette
Razor and Blade.
Styled, to the Minute.
Distinctive Patterns-
i
w
LEVIATHAN
Tailoring.
Write for Patterns
To-day.
The
“QUALITY”
SUIT
£7|ls|-
Made to Order.
A smartly cut and tailored Navy or ALL-
WOOL Tweed Leviathan Suit is a neces-
sity. Greater confidence in yourself
is assured when well dressed. The
“Qualitv” Suit is recognised throughout
the Commonwealth for style and distinc-
tive cut.
Soldiers’ Own Material.
Suit lengths obtained from the Defence
Department the Leviathan are pre-
pared to cut and tailor in similai
style to the “Quality” Suit, supply all
trimmings, linings and
buttons. Net Price ..
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Cr. Swanston
Pty. and BourkeSts.,
Ltd. MELBOURNE.
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/6
EACH
BRITISH-MADE
DOUBLE'
SIDED
3/6
EACH
Some Splendid British-made REGAL RECORDS
at 3/6 each, All Double-sided.
G-7447
J “H.M.S. Pinafore
l
Selections—ln Two Parts. _ . -
Wingate’s Temperance Prize Band
G-7466
j Quand Madelon March
I Till We Meet Again,, Waltz
The Silver Stars Band
The Silver Stars Band
G-7448—“ Patience” Selections—ln Two Parts .... Wingate’s Temperance Prize Band
G-7467
Missouri Waltz. (Dance Music)
Over There, Foxtrot
Regal Orchestra
Regal Orchestra
G-7452
j Roses of Picardy
[ Rove’s Garden of Roses
Alexander Prince, concertina
Alexander Prince, concertina
G-7453
j The Great Little
Armv Alexander Prince, concertina
j
( The Call of the Drum
Alexander Prince, concertina
G-7461
( Hush-a-Bye, Ma Baby (The Missouri) ..
(Everything is Peaches Down in Georgia
Fred Douglas, baritone
Fred Douglas, baritone
G-7015
} Weymouth Chimes
I Coronation Bells
Band of H.M. Scots Guards
Band of H.M. Scots Guards
G-6903
) The Campbells are Comings etc.
I The British Grenadiers,, etc. ...
Fifes and Drums
Fifes and Drums
G-7093
j Angels’ Serenade
l Simple Aveu ...
Violin, Flute and Harp
Violin, Flute and Harp
G-6875
j “Barcarolle,” from Tales of Hoffmann
l Over the Waves, Waltz
King’s Military Band
King ’s Military Band
.
G-6451
And a Little Child Shall Lead Them .
Please, Mr. Conductor, Don’t Put Me Off the Train
Charles Holland, baritone
.Charles Holland, baritone
G-6160
j Don’t Go Down in the Mine, Dad
( ’Tis a Faded Picture
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
Stanley Kirkby, baritone
G-wn
t oro Pro Nobis . Miss Annie Rees and Choir
l Ave Maria (Gounod) Miss Jessie Reeves
G-7118
Casey on the ’Phone
Casey’s Fight
Michael Casey
Michael Casey
G-7117
J Casey at the Wake Michael Casey
( Casey at Home Michael Casey
G-6007
J I Keep on Toddling Along 3XHJ? ams
( Cohen Billy Williams
Full Lists and Catalogues are obtainable at most high-class Music Stores, or
from the undermentioned firms: —
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Etc!., Baking House, Rawson Place.
MELBODKNE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Fty„,
Ltd.. 113 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q.— King & King, Ltd., Queen Street.
„ W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Cccoanut Oil
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in niqp condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,'
saponified but quite greaseless liquid) is
far better than the most costly soap you could
possibly use for a shampoo, for this cannot
possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and cleanses
both hair and scalp thoroughly. The lather
rinses out easily, and takes with it every trace
of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive oiliness.
The hair driest quickly, and evenly, and comes
out fine, and silky, bright, glossy and fluffy,
appearing to be heavier than it is. And best
of all, this colinated cocoanut oil leaves the
hair as easy to dress again, as though you
hadn’t washed it at all. You can get colinated
cocoanut oil at most any chemist, but be sure
it’s “colinated,” which is not expensive—a few
ounces lasting a long, long time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
Use Fingers to Lift Off Corns!
X
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses* Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns—soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes, —-
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful coin-
pound is named
Frozol-Ice, and is a
substance of ether dis-
covered by a scholarly'
* chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice. cost-
ing but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to the heart
of any tender, pain-throbbing corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn, “lock
st ° ck barrel <” loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
hrozol-Ice, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callbus.
Only fancy! No pain! No soreness!
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice, nor
afterwards. Make a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder or
compressed tablets—never liquid or milk—
and is not a laxative. Any first-class chemist
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia.
“Bung”: In the best axe-handle timber
dispute ‘‘Steve Hart” (B. 21/10/’2O) and “A.R.W.”
(9/9/’2O) got to loggerheads through a confusion
of names. Several .bush trees are wrongly named
“sally,” and amongst them is the one championed
by A.R.W.” His vegetable is in most parts known
as the water-gum. It grows rather sparsely along
the salt-water lakes and tidal creeks of the N.S.W.
South Coast and in Eastern Victoria:, and attains a
diameter at the butt of about lOin. It regularly
has a straight barrel, with bark of sombre grey,
and has whitish, spiky leaves that hold themselves
rigidly skyward. Next to a profiteer’s hide it is
the toughest thing that grows, and for any sort
of handle it will outwear American hickory.
* * * *
, “YaSfum”: The most difficult animal to
trap that I know of is the fox; and I was a long
time before I got one that was causing trouble at
Newbridge (N.S.W.). I buried the head of a rabbit
under the trap, and then watched. After a bit
the bad smell came along and sniffed at the bait from
A WORKER, TOO.
“Ah, my friend, are you helping to carry
on the good work? Have you been
doing anything for the cause?”
“My oath! I’ve just come back from a
month’s hop-picking!”
a safe distance. Then he circled around it a few
times, sniffing all the while, and trotted away. I
thought things out, and set three traps without
bait or the circumference of the circle. He circled
some more and got a leg into one of them.
“Starfish”: How long is William Goat
supposed to last? While living up in North Queens-
land a well-meaning neighbor presented my small
son with a four-weeks-old he-kid. My one-time small
son is back from the war, and William is still so
strong that it’s hard to breathe in the same paddock
with him. The other day one of his wives— file’s
Clara Butt —had twins. With kindly intent the
R.S. went over to the lady with a bundle of green
OLD BEFORE HIS TIME.
COLLECTOR: “H’m—looks pretty old for tinder fourteen!”
IKESTEIN, SEN: “Yeth; bud think of the trouble he’th gone through, pore poy!”
stuff, quite forgetting William’s disposition. There
was a sudden attack from the rear, a dull thud and
an R.S. retiring from the field of action in a manner
that he’d never have been guilty of in France. He was
going to grab the gun and give William the one-over,
but refrained when it was pointed out that William was
only guarding his own interests, and had evidently
picked up some gossip which caused him to mistrust
khaki. William is 19 years old, but is still as good
as ever he was in some respects, and his sweeping
chin-weeds seem to tickle the fancy of the lady-love
of the hour as he singles her out for his attentions.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “Hannibal” (B. 21/10/’2O)
puts a query or two re lightning-struck trees. Light-
ning is the result of a difference of electrical “level”
between a “thundercloud” and the earth. The flash
is the flowing of the current down to earth to
restore a balance. Though lightning is one of the
fiercest explosions of energy known (a volcano is
about its only rival), it nevertheless
seeks the easiest track down. The atmo-
sphere itself is a poor conductor; forked
lightning is the result of a flash twisting
and following better-conducting “shafts.”
Electric-current “sparks” more favorably
to a point, which explains why lightning-
conductors on buildings invariably end
in a two- or three-pointed prong. Now;
bring in the tree. It represents a point,
and thus tends to “draw” the flash. Fur-
ther, .on account of the preseuce of the
sap, it provides a comparatively favorable
track for the “juice.” Commonly the
bark is struck off. This is owing to the
fact that current of the nature of light-
ning tends to remain on the surface. In-
credible as it sounds, the sap in the bark
is boiled by the fiery heat and friction of
the flash, steam-pressure is thus pro-
duced, and the bark is actually exploded
from the tree. Where a tree is riveh to
splinters a long-sustained flash has
“soaked” further in and simply blown it
up. As to whether a tree dies or survives, that is
a matter of the severity of the burning, just as
after a forest-fire the less severely-burnt trees recover.
* * * *
“1241”: Inform “Howdy” that the hawks
he shot were mere chickens. On Oxley Park station
(N.S.AV.) I shot one that measured 9ft. lOin. from
tip to tip. Later on I was introduced to four
bigger still. The wallah told me in broken Arabic
that they were captured on the Blue Nile. And
he reckoned there arc much bigger vultures out in
the Sahara.
“Bureri”: “Bouragi” (B. 5/8/’2O) talks
of the Greek colony in the Trobriand Islands. It
really consisted of four Greeks, three Englishmen,
one Scotchman and a Dane. Of Greeks there were
Nicolas, his brother Peter, Mick, and George the
Greek. All ai'e gone; the last, Mick, died recently
at Townsville. The Greeks never at any time con-
trolled the pearl trade of the Trobriands. Nicolas
had little time for these islands. After one season
(five months) he cleared back, “up to windward,”
chasing the sea-slug and turtle, and he didn’t return
for 18 years.. -Peter cleared out the time of the
Russo-Jap war: he reckoned there was more money
to be made camp-following. George used to spend
the N.W. season pearl-trading and the S.-E. season
“up to windward” chasing beche-de-mer and turtle*
shell. Nicolas, after 85 years’ trading in New
Guinea, left an estate valued at £197. George)
passed out leaving a little over £3OO after 22
years’ trading. That shows. The Trobriand pearls
are not by any means “the finest in. the world.”
The best of them are cream-colored; the majority a
poor-quaility yellow. “Bouragi” also libels the
Greeks when he says that “they made the group a
hot-bed of venereal.” Venereal was introduced long
before by the French whalers, who worked between
there and lasi lasi. At the present time there is
only one case in the hospital, and it was imported.
* * * *
“South Coast”: Trout fishermen seem to
blame the cormorant (shag) fraternity alone for the
diminution of their dainty-feeding and elusive quarry,
but I think the fresh-water eels (the brown or
common eels in particular) are also to blame. From
certain large , ponds on the N. S. Wales South Coast,
once well stocked with estuary perch and sea-mullet
(usually immature), these fishes have almost entirely
disappeared. Immense brown' eels, some nearly four
feet long, also inhabit these ponds, and no doubt
dine on their fellow boarders. They are seldom
seen, but at times, with scarcely a movement of
the swimming apparatus, an enormous eel will glide
slowly and majestically through some open space in
the weeds. The cormorant, anyhow, dines not only
on young eels, but also on baby lagoon tortoises, the
adults of which devour fish fry and spawn.
“D.R.P.”: On the question whether the
branches ascend with the growth of the tree,
here is my contribution. When re-establishing a
corner-peg of an old freehold portion in the Bogga-
bri district (N.S.W.) a few Weeks ago I had occa-
sion to cut out the original reference tree marked
by a surveyor in 1880. The broad arrow was clearly
revealed in the old wood at sft. 6in. from the
ground, and as that is the usual height at which
the arrow is cut, it had not ascended with the
growth of the tree in 40 years. If a mark, such as
this broad arrow, does not ascend with the growth
of the trunk, it also follows that the branches are
correspondingly stationary. In the 40 years a thick-
ness of eight inches of new wood had formed over
the arrow, showing an increase of 16 inches in
diameter of trunk. It was a river gum, but was a
mile from the bank of the Namoi.
I\ Weed” : Are the people of the North
hardy? Sure thing! Was recently in a N.Q. coastal
resort, and decided to have a swim in the Municipal
Baths. Arriving there, a notice offering a reward
of £1 for the capture of a 9ft. shark known to be
inhabiting the waters attracted my serious atten-
tion. Decided to postpone the swim and try for
the quid. Caught a 6ft. specimen, but was declared
ineligible for the reward, my shark not being up
to specification. Swim still further postponed. While
I was angling for the shark saw a whale spouting
in the baths. Are they hardy? My oath!
“Kaikai”: Our chicken-coop was made
snake-proof, but a more than crafty crawler broke
in, and the hen and chickens sounded the alarm.
It was night, and the lantern revealed the snake.
The frightened chicks and their anxious parent
rushed out as soon as the door was opened—all save
two. One was at each end of the snake. A gun-
shot through the open door cut him in halves. When
the coop was lifted away each end of the reptile
still retained tightly a dead chicken. One was
partially swallowed; the other, throttled, was held
by three encircling coils of the tail.
*-* * *
“Mulga” : A bushman doesn’t have to count
his mob to know whether any are missing. There are
hundreds, boys and men, who will run up a mob of
horses or working bullocks and tell at a glance if
one is absent. Not by counting them; simply a
picture of every animat is engraved on the mind,
and some instinct instantly picks '. out the missing
one. There are scores of drovers who will lift large
mob's of cattle that are absolutely strange to them,
and in a couple of days will give a description
of every beast in the herd. To the ordinary layman
this may seem an impossibility, but to the bush-
man it is second nature.
* * * *
“Te. Pana”: Pride of place on the Tongan
menu is awarded to octopi. The sea fiends are caught
on long poles, and to clean them of their
poison the native massages them exactly like a
washerwoman does a shirt. They lather as if
soaped, and not until they cease yielding suds,
bubbles and froth does Mere give them a final
rinsing and peg them on the line. Stewed in cocoa-
nut milk flavored with chilis the octopus when it
reaches the eating .mat looks like Saturday-night’s
tripe and chews like cow-heel.
* * * #
“Silas Snell”: I used to regard the whim-
horse as the animal who knew his job best, but his
sagacity is no greater than that of the neddies,em-
ployed to haul the sawn stuff from the mills along
crazy tram-lines to the stations in various way-back
Gippsland districts. There are serious disadvantages
attaching to the position of being the horse next
the loaded trucks, and it takes even the dullest ass
of a horse only a little while to discover this, and
to begin to show some science in ducking and dodg-
ing. On the worst inclines it often happens that the
green timber will slip in its chains,, and there is
nothing an impressionable neddy hates worse than
being prodded behind "by a stick 50ft. long and a
foot square, or by a whole load of quartering. When
he has been subjected to such inconvenience, a few
times, he is willing—nay, anxious—to let any other
old boss have the berth next the pile, and will
squeal like a hysterical woman when he finds himself
being jambed into that position. The sight of four
old-fashioned, fiddle-headed, lugubrious, bony quad-
rupeds side-stepping to avoid the position and try-
ing to kick each other to the front, is one of the
humors of the' woodman’s life. The unhappy Clydes-
dale who gets the unpopular position resorts to tac-
tics in self-defence. When he comes to a sudden
slope where loads have been known to lurch he bites
the rump of the nag in front. This is to keep the
MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
“Vot an awful thing—Levi has made Cohen
his co-respondent!”
“ Veil, things might he vorse.”
“Vorse! How can they he vorse?”
“Veil, it might haf been me!”
line moving briskly while the brakes operate, so that
he can get as far as possible from the danger zone.
They have a big red nag on one of the lines at
Gembrook who will work like a tiger as leader, or in
second place in the line, but if put next the load he
simply lies down, and no persuasion on earth will
shift him. He has seen two nags killed next the load,
and self-preservation is the first law of Nature.
DRUNKEN DANNY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wind among the cedars blowing
Eerie pipes of melody!
Cattle seem to cease their lowing,
And the little, wild birds flee,
When, between the ghostly revels
On the lone, forgotten track,
Danny dances with his devils
Through the dreams that bring him back.
Long ago I saw him reeling
In a wind that winter sang;
To all gods and none appealing
While he shrieked and danced and sprang
With a mad and maddening motion
Round the stockyard and the bales,
Rolling through a shorthorn ocean
Wild with waves of legs and tails.
Winter laughed to see him swagger
Down that muddy, milking lane;
He would dance while he could stagger
In the singing, silver rain,
Till the boys came home from felling
When the short, grey day was dead;
And they carried Danny yelling
To the creek to cool his head.
Warm and sane again and sleeping
By the kitchen fire I made,
I have watched him, almost weeping,
While the red sparks danced and played,
Wondering why the world sent tramping
One so old and tired as he,
Thinking he should find good camping,
Somewhere, by some land or sea.
Poor old crazy, lazy Danny,.
Chopping wood and mending gates,
Muttering words and thoughts uncanny,
Beaten badly by the Fates,
I had kissed him, learned his story,
Coaxed his heart to hope again;
But they said a girl of glory
Lost in youth, brought all his pain.
Past the fern-sweet, shining river,
Where the long eels twist and swim;
Where the yellow reed-stems quiver,
And the gums stand straight and slim,
There’s a tree that keeps on creaking
All the long and lonely year;
And, maybe, it’s Danny speaking,
Warning those who loiter near.
For they found him there one morning
Hanging, silent, from a limb.
He had danced his last; the scorning
World held nothing new for him.
Drunken, lost—a burnt-out ember—
How the .brown leaves drift and fall!
Ah! but Danny, I remember—
Was the woman worth it all?
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


C ; " : V-
T 5 ,
m
.
* *
5
II
get
M
r.
fSttfilll
.. *
i. ■ .
>- v
it
,£o
..r> :
. ■ " -
■ 3;:,;
m
,
~v-i
' ■ *
** - ' >
■ >V"
... ~
:
■f
m
■
.
* -OV V
;
■
IP
■V:
r/« ■
'■El
.
m::.
m
3K
.
r
I ; :
K*as ■■
mm
NgMgj : | i
I
■ mg-
'
Wk'
rmmmsm
mum
i
ouying harden inio
Most hoses externally look the same, and in many instances
one has to take it for granted that the requisite strength of
cotton, and quality of rubber is incorporated in its manu-
facture to enable it to withstand hard use. Not so with
Dunlop Hose. To safeguard purchasers and assure them
that the quality and construction is right to ensure long and
satisfactory service, we brand
with one of our registered trade marks. We illustrate these
brands. Hose so embossed is our warranty to you of value
and service—it’s your guarantee that the hose you buy is the
product of an Australian house that has won a reputation in
this Country for high quality goods at a reasonable price.
We value our Trade Marks too highly to place them on goods
that do not give a fair return for their cost. Therefore,
when buying garden hose, order either “Dunlop,” Oceanic,
or “Federal,” according to the quality you desire, and
satisfaction will follow. Illustrated List on Application.
DUNLOP HOSE IS OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING STOKES.
# # *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Launceston, Hobart, and Wellington,
Christchurch,, Auckland.
*x»£


H
■
r;;.’ ■''.r-..
Wm
m
I
■
■
i
::
a
i
t//
/v££
wr
■
i
v \
a
\
■
:
n
r
o
y/' A
WM
m
m


for Light Cars
The best at the price and
the best at any price
THERE can be no doubt that
the Goodyear 30 x 3i All-
Weather Tread Tyre is the best
light-car tyre on the market.
It is unqualifiedly the best,
to-day.
Future years may (probably will) pro-
duce a tyre which, by addition or
elimination, is superior to the present
day 30 x 32 All Weather Tread. But,
then as now, Goodyear will seek to
(and be well equipped and prepared to)
make that tyre.
It is this instant readiness on the part of
Goodyear to meet conditions—to readjust its
ideas and plans to square with special needs
of price or service that gave birth to the
Goodyear New Single Cure Tyre, with the
Anti-Skid Tread. This latter is the lowest
priced quality tyre on the market and is the
best tyre for light cars at the price at which
it is offered.
Little need be repeated on behalf of the
Goodyear All-Weather Tread Tyre. But this
must be said in connection with the new tyre :
It is better value for money than any similar
small size tyre made.
Before being offered to the public, the New
Single Cure Tyre was subjected to the severest
trials and most exhaustive tests. The fact that
it is made by Goodyear, is branded “ Goodyear,”
and has the reputation of Goodyear entrusted
to it, should be sufficient recommendation.
In addition to the attractions of high quality and
low price, there is one other important fact to
remember—every Goodyear Tyre is backed by
the Goodyear Guarantee.
For Ford, Chevrolet, Maxwell, Dort and Overland 4 Cars
30 x ZVz Goodyear Double XUI A • A • A
Cure All-Weather Tread Tyre c£J-v/ . 1/ . U
30 x 3 # Goodyear Single _£Q .O . A
Cure Anti-Skid Tread Tyre ”
Goodyear Heavy Tourist Tubes are thick, strong
tubes that reinforce casings properly. Why risk
a good casing with a cheap tube ? Goodyear Heavy
Tourist Tubes cost little more than tubes of less
merit 30 xVA size in water- ri .11 •
proof bag - - - . obi .ll . o
SERVICE STATIONS AND DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
n
mm
m
!v\w>X
i (


Tke
Purest
Spirit
tritKe
UijrUL
rue
( y°IFES SCHNA^'::;^
A. Saunders’ Glove Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, richly-
engraved “Ribbon” design, Silk-lined, £3/3/-
Large size, £5.
A. Saunders’ Collar Box, pure Silver-plated* A 1
quality, beautifully burnished and engraved,
£4/4/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, hand-burnished,
finest-quality Instruments, 5 pieces, 55/-
7 pieces, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Photo Frame,
hand burnished, plain design. In three
sizes, 30/-, 50/-, 70/-
SEagr.ssp
Sj I
%
m
1
y
«B 5
a*
y
ia
flftvi
s, •■•■
ijnlill!
fife
111
33
SE
. -j&»>
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush, Mirror and Comb, in Silk-
lined Case, design, hand-burnished, finest-quality
\ Bristles, Bevelled-edge Mirorr, £5.
Others, £5/15/-, £6/6/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Brush Set, finest-quality
Bristles, in Silk-lined Case, £6/10/-
m .
Saunder
Puff Jar, pure Silver-plated lid Crystal
Glass Jar, 15/6.
Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Purse, hand-burnished,
engraved “Ribbon” design, £4/10/-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
verses been put out modestly he might have
been accepted as an honest but not very
successful trier. Mr. De Garis in attempt-
ing to boom his work holds him up to ridi-
cule. The advertisement is loud in its pro-
mise of the fine thing; and the goods are not
as they are represented.
Is “Paradise Lost” a Book for Boys?
“DJVI.W.’s” adventures into praise of my
own work, like the travels of Marco Polo,
are not to be trusted ; rather they represent
the sweet straw laid about the scaffold
before the head is cut off.
My friend scoffs at my taste in sonnets,
and turns, like the serpent in the country-
man’s bosom, even upon Milton himself,
where he puts the drooping question
“whether the fire is quite genuine.”
“D.M.W.” believes in divination by num-
bers and culls poems in the company of a
whole picnic party of Milton lovers. He
says, in effect, “Isn’t this a pretty one?”
They all answer “Yes,” and “D.M.W.” is
right. Why doesn’t he go up into the Alps
alone to pick the cold and icy blossom of his
own unbiased choosing? Is he afraid of
his selection being derided as mine has been?
“D.M.W.” tells me there are ten thousand
people ready to attest to the value of Mil-
ton’s sonnets, but he can only think of five
nameless children (infantile masculine Mrs.
’Arrises) who pretend that “Paradise Lost”
is a book for boys. So, if his self-chosen
oracle of Arithmancy can be said to hold
good, he is at once “hoist by his own petard.”
I have known good, well-bottomed readers,
grown-up men (and Milton lovers, at that),
who have laid down “Paradise Lost” unfin-
ished, with a sigh of despair.
In conclusion, “D.M.W.’s” arrows were
too angry to keep to the mark; the spot
we should all like to see him hit is where,
the proof lies (and we apprehend thatqt does
lie) of his interesting assertion that “Para-
dise Lost” is a juvenile sanctuary. “He
must succeed there, or go hang.”
HUGH McCRAE.
Gossip
To despise gossip is the hallmark of a
lofty mind. At least that is what some of
the best people in England are saying in
some of the very stodgiest journals. If the
theory is right it merely confirms an old
suspicion of mine that I haven’t a lofty
raind. For I love anecdotes about the men
and women who cut a wide swathe in their
time, and if this is proof of intellectual snob-
bery, then I cheerfully confess that I am,
Always have been, and (I hope) always will
be a confirmed snob.
But just look at the theory more closely,
consider its logical consequences, and you
will see it in all its pretentious folly. Ex-
clude gossip from literature and you rob it
of half its spice and color. Blue pencil it
from history, and you strip away the meat
and leave the skeleton. Who cares to read the
laboriously accurate compilations of German
pedants when he can taste the gossip that
Plutarch serves up so piquantly? Who
does not prefer Froissart to Freeman or
Stubbs or Hallam or any of the other
“scientific” historians? To whom do you go
for the real history of the Restoration
period? To Hume? No, to Pepys. Hume
will tell you what acts were passed, what
statesmen thought and what the army did.
But in Pepys’s company you meet the gay
beauties of the Court, assist at a fashionable
hanging and sit in the pit when Mr. Con-
greve’s latest comedy is staged. Weddings,
fires, riots, processions, bull-baitings, re-
views, funerals, amours and all the other
diversions, public and private, sacred and
profane, in which Pepys, like most English-
men of his and every other time, found never-
ending delight, pass before your eyes. You
breakfast with the King, spend the day at the
Navy Office, sup with a chorus girl, and
“then home, and well pleased, to bed.”
Scandalous? Of course it’s scandalous. But
so is human nature, and without men like
Pepys and Petronius and Rabelais we would
know only one side of the story of mankind.
And yet these are the men whose work
pious dullards would condemn as trifling and
of no account. The trouble is that some
people—-historians and editors, for instance
—often fail to distinguish between the things
that are important but dull, and the things
that may be unimportant in their immediate
consequences but intrinsically are highly in-
teresting. You may preach till you go
purple and then blue about the importance
of the Bill of Rights, the rival claims of the
houses of Lancaster and York, and the agra-
rian reforms of the Gracchi, and the world
will go on disregarding you with unanimity
and enthusiasm. But the cynical witticisms
of Charles the Second, the love affairs of
Napoleon, King John’s alleged weakness for-
practising dentistry on Jews, the rakishness
of Charles James Fox, the wondrous cravats
of poor Brummel—these things are familiar
to every child and relished by every adult who
has not shed so much of his youth that he
has become a prig. It is gossip of this kind that
gives history its personal, moving interest.
Eliminate it, and history drops from its
place ambng the humanities to the level of
a lawyer’s record.
This is not to say that all gossip is
worth while. If the touch is not light and
delicate you achieve only vulgarity, or at
best banality. Horace Walpole, with his
mordant, ironical humor, is incomparably
deft. He gives you the latest scandal and
chit-chat, tells you what he eats and drinks,
describes at length an adventure on a lawn
with madcap ladies who insist upon cooking
in a frail china vessel that may at any time
fly in pieces about their ears, but never for
a moment does he become silly or even dull.
Boswell, though infinitely less literary, cap-
tivates you by his sheer ingenuousness, his
extraordinary faculty of looking at the world
with the wide-eyed interest of a child. In-
tellectually, he is akin to Pepys, and if ever
a statue is raised to represent the spirit of
curiosity the artist need not look for a model
beyond the diarist or the smooth young
lawyer who contentedly trod Johnson’s
shadow and staggered him with questions
like “What would you do, sir,- if you were
shut up in a tower with a baby?”
By far the most distinguished gossip of
to-day is Mr. G. W. E. Russell, whose “Por-
traits of the ’Seventies” and “Collections and
Recollections” almost rival Walpole’s letters
in their graceful irony. Wilfred Scawen
Blunt is more daring, which must be counted
unto him for righteousness ; but his taste is
not so sure, and more than once he lays him-
self open to a charge of not playing the game.
So does Gerald Cumberland, whose “Set
Down in Malice” has been perturbing quite
a number of celebrities. “My friends tell
me that I am brutal, and I know I am ill-
mannered,” he says; and t-here is no need
to contradict them or him. His book is full
of indiscretions, thumbnail sketches and
irrelevant reminiscences, told in an incon-
sequential, feminine style suggesting an odd
combination of “Eve” of the Tatler and
the late Marie Bashkirtseff. All the same,
there are many interesting patches. Arnold
Bennett, for instance, he describes as a
“curiously, wrongly-dressed figure.... rather
short, thin, hollowed-eyed, prominent-
toothed.” Bennett looked at Cumberland
“drowsily, indifferently, insultingly indiffer-
ently,” which is very distressing/ and in-
stead of talking epigrams, as every novelist
is expected to do, spent an hour in ponder-
ing over the problem why a porter should
have gone past carrying a huge trunk.
Small beer, you say? Perhaps so. But
the gossip of one age is the stuff that the
next calls history. A few personal details
might revolutionise our ideas about Homel-
and Shakspeare, and in the same way the
student of the year 3000 may find the key
to the character of one of the leading novel-
ists of the Georgian period in Cumberland’s
picture of that thin figure with the untidy
clothes, prominent teeth and, indifferent eyes,
reflecting all through dinner on the selfish-
ness of a man who would own such a huge
trunk, and speculating abstractedly on the
effects of the strangulated hernia which the
porter was sure to develop.
G. C. DIXON.
A Satchel of Books
H. T. Sherringham is the angling editor
of that great sporting paper, London Field.
In Trout Fishing Memories and Morals
(Hodder and Stoughton), he rambles along
for 300 pages in the amiable and learned
vein which distinguishes his section of the
paper. He has caught trout in every part
of England and Wales, and with every sort
of fly, dry and wet. He is even big enough
to own to the occasional use of worms and
minnows. On the whole the lessons he has
to teach will not greatly benefit Australian
trout-fishermen. We have no streams like
the classic Test and Itchen of Hampshire,
slow and gin-clear rivulets where each fish
much be stalked with breathless care. The
Dove, which was immortalised by Izaak
Walton, is about half-way between a Hamp-
shire stream and the Snowy' or one of its
tributaries. The closest approximation is
found in parts of Wales, where the rivers
run fast over a granite bottom and are dow-
ered with a big hatch of fly- Mr. Shering-
harn is enthusiastic about baskets that would
appear pitiful to a Dalgety frequenter, much
less one of the growing band who fish the
waters of Maoriland. But it is the sporting
spirit that counts, and in this _ respect there
are few capable of showing him points.
Double Life, by Grant Richards (Grant
Richards, Ltd.), deals with a class which is
unknown in Australia. Geoffrey Pemberton
and his wife, at 36 and 34 respectively,
though “rich enough for comfort” and with
no social or religious prejudices, have never
been to a race-meeting, and they know no-
thing about betting. Mrs. Pemberton sur-
renders to the gambling lure, and the events
leading up to an astonishing denouement are
well told.
A pamphlet, by William Guy Higgs,
M.H.R., tells in detail the story, already
fairly well known, of his expulsion from the
Labor party. He had been a Laborite all
his adult life, a politician for 21 years, a
Federal Minister for some time, and up to
last January was deputy-leader of the Oppo-
sition. After the. last election Higgs criti-
cised, not any Labor principle or any act
of the caucus or the Parliamentary party,
but the management of the campaign by an
outside body, the Queensland Central Execu-
tive. That body promptly used its political
office to avenge its personal dignity, and
ejectment followed. There was no jury.
The accused had no formal charge presented
to him, and received no report of the pro-
ceedings. Twenty-one separate letters, one
to each of the 21 uncivil members of the
Executive, were hnanimously left un-
answered, and other letters and telegrams
were either left unanswered or were re-
turned. Of course, the Executive people,
many of them hopelessly unfortunate aspi-
rants for seats, get impatient with men like
Higgs or Holman or McGowen or Hughes
who block promotion for 21 years, and in
time any 'excuse becomes good enough. All
the present N.S.W. Cabinet bar Estell got
its chance by throwing the old man over-
hoard for living too long. Other parties may
feel the same way, but Labor has the
machinery with which to express its feel-
ings.
♦
“Uloola”: Re the handwriting of Henry
Kendall (R.P. 4/11/’2O). When Kendall
was a clerk in the N.S.W. Colonial Secre-
tary’s office, about 1866, he had his right
hand so seriously injured by the sudden
shutting of a door that he was unable to
write with it, and thereafter always used
his left hand for the purpose. He formed
each letter separately, yet was able to write
quite rapidlv, I have not seen the new edi-
tion of Kendall’s poems, and do not know if
Stevens’s biographical note mentions the
above fact; but from the Red Page review
I judge that it doesn’t.


mini
M
*56
m
MALTHOID
READY ROOFING
Built-in Quality
The only way to know the quality
of ready roofing is to put it on your
house, barn, or other building and wait
for two or three years. You can’t tell
the good. from the poor merely by
looking at it or feeling of it. It is the
hidden qualities that count. Ready
roofing must be carefully made from
the best materials if it is to stand the
test of time and weather.
Malthoid has attained its position
as the standard of ready roofing be-
cause quality has been built into it.
The Paraffine Companies, Inc., with
its complete organization, scour the-
world for the best materials. We make
our own felt from carefully selected
rags. We maintain our own refineries
in order to get the highest grade of
asphalt and similar products. The
manufacture of Malthoid is carried on
from beginning to end within the one
organization.
No effort or cost is spared in manu-
facturing Malthoid. Experts constant-
ly supervise every process. Tests are
made continually to see that all mate-
rial is kept up to the high standard
which has been set.
As a result, Malthoid has those hidden qualities
which give it an exceptionally long life. It will
not dry out or rot. It is the best quality roofing
that can be made. If painted regularly, it will last
for years.
When you think of building, remember Mal-
thoid.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES, Inc
(F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
The standard of its kind and “Not the same as others.’
PABCO
PRODUCTS
Roofings,
Felts,
Building Papers
Waterproofing
Materials,
Wall-Board,
Floor Covering,
Industrial
Paints,
Pabco Metal
Paints,
etc.
There can be only one best.
Malthoid has made a record
that entitles it to that
distinction.


I’ve worked out west,
Down south, up north,
For hours and hours by day.
My constant call throughout them all —Hey!
Get the Wool Away!
CONSIGN:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers, ltd.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
hold the secret of purity,
niceness and digestibility.
They can make your next
special tea-party vastly suc-
cessful. Try some Straw-
berry and Camille Creams,
Orange Creams or some
Keith Fingers—they will
look as tempting as they are
good. Sold in sealed
packets and 21b. and 41b.
tins as they leave the factory.
YOUR GROCER SELLS THEM.
s ~2xfy 'l/ctrielies
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
GENUINE
o
o
FITTINGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
With your Friends.
Cycling companions are the hap-
piest associations it is possible to
make. The healthy exercise and
pleasure gained make cycling the
one pastime -without equal. Relia-
bility and long service are specially
studied in the construction of
B.S.A. Fittings, and the purchase
of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
will ensure care-free cycling for
years. For business purposes the
convenience and economy make a
bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings a real necessity. Look
for the world famous Trade Mark,
the “Three Piled Rifles.”
v¥\\
A
.411 B.S.A. Parts
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
k
B.S.A.
A Sign ol
Quality.
Sendfor Illustrated
List and particulars
post free to
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
Australian
Wm
electrolytic zinc
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agrent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
S. STOKES, 63 Broolcman Buildings.
a
a
□
□
CONTINUOUS STAVE -WIRE WOUND j
Its lightness, strength and economy are amongst the reason's why wood pipe
is so increasingly popular with practical Water-supply Engineers; and
“PIONEER” WOOD PIPE, although it is manufactured to meet a specified
pressure, A FACTOR OF SAFETY OF FOUR, OR EVEN MORE, IS
PROVIDED. The Spiral Band is Mild Steel, with a tensile strength of
65,0001 b. to the square inch.
The size and interval of winding are regulated to meet the requisite pressure.
REMEMBER, Steel for Strength and Wood for Durability.
w
g ' wjsßKgi
Shipping 16in. pipes
for Mt. Lyell Mining
and Railway Co., Ltd.,
Tasmania (year 1910).
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
All enquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree),
NEW SOUTH WALES.
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Repr esentativeS.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURBT, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
V; S
•r. m
s \ -
Ini m
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.— (Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. Lu S. BOTAL.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABEISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELATN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
From London:—
Photographers here have found a new way ot
exploiting the vanity of flappers ana others. When
sending proofs the trader encloses h letter mention-
ing how impressed he has b'-en by the beauty of
his victim and the fact that she so obviously pos-
sesses the much-desired “film '.ace. ' He offers (for
a consideration) to send an enlarged photograph,
“specially finished,” to a well known cinema firm.
Very often the flapper bites, ant then sits back and
waits for the offer of a £IO,OUO-»-year engagement
which never arrives.
“Tradesman”: Unless you know reasons
to the contrary, the party in a furnished flat
is not to be trusted for a tin of sardines.
Too often she has not even a good intention—
she wouldn’t pay if she could for fear of
getting the habit. I had one such on my
books for five weeks, and when I began to
make sounds in imitation of a wild grocer
wanting his money, she had, it appeared,
never been so insulted in all her life. “Why,”
said I angrily, “did you leave Smith” (a
rival grocer) “to come to me?” To this she
replied promptly. “Because Ido not approve
of owing everything to one man,” said she.
“D.F.”: Over in the Speck, where square
miles are few, the buying of 150,000 acres,
including a few stray islands in Bass Strait,
by Geoffrey V. Chapman, a bright young
real-estate agent in Hobart, is reckoned about
the biggest land deal ever put through. But
most of the land is Crown leases, so the
value doesn’t run very high. It’s a long
way below the amount paid for Kidman and
Strickland’s Yambacoona run on King
Island, bought for repatriation purposes.
Chapman’s bargain is in the wilds of the
North-East, out towards Cape Portland, with
Preservation and other islands, and there’s
some fine sheep and cattle country in it.
* * * *
Local governing bodies in South Aus. have
been given a strong hint from headquarters
to go in for a tree-planting scheme, using
the roadsides at present neglected. It is
estimated that the roads in the State occupy
350,000 acres, half of which could be planted
with trees, thereby more than doubling the
present area of “forest.” The bait held
out is that the vegetables ought to increase
in value by £5 per acre per year, the esti-
mated total being “more than three times
the sum of the annual general rates col-
lected by all corporations and district coun-
cils, and more than sufficient for the upkeep
of all roads, main, town and district.” Shade
and scenery are thrown in as sidelines.
* * * *
“Ragar” : It was John Cowling, one-time
pearler in Torres Strait, who introduced
cotton-growing on the islands. In 1906 he
procured seeds of caravonica from Cairns,
and started a plantation on Moa Island.
The stuff did well, and proved that there
was another industry available to the man
with sufficient go and capital to get it
started. But luck was against Cowling.
That time there was next to no demand for
cotton; also difficulties were thrown in his
way, and the crop was never picked. Dis-
gusted, he threw up the project and cleared
out. From Moa the plant has been carried
to all the inhabited islands in the Strait,
the natives finding that it grew without any
attention, and that it spread all over the
place with no assistance from them. Cow-
ling is now T running a cocoanut plantation
of his own on Mibu Island, Papua, and mak-
ing a good thing out of it.
“Ex-John” : The Sydney dailies have been
publishing whimsical theories as to the way
pillar-box robberies are accomplished. A
favorite notion is that the missives are
extracted in broad daylight by means of a
winding-apparatus manipulated with one
hand, while the malefactor, his back against
the pillar, greets his friends with the other.
But why make a dangerous sport of the ven-
ture when it is possible to shoot the oof-bird
in the very nest? Pillar-boxes contain let-
ters at night, and in some of the wealthiest
suburbs a policeman is not seen once in six
months, unless he arrives on a special mis-
sion connected with a dog-license or the
failure of somebody to get on the electoral
roll. It might act as a check if the aper-
tures of the receptacles were so constructed
that nothing could be hooked through them.
But even then the pillars could be burgled by
their doors or removed in furniture-vans
while members of the force were resting after
the nightly two-up raid.
THE GRAVE MISCONCEPTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We gooed our eyes in mild surprise,
And gravest doubts broke o’er us,
When Arthur said that he had wed
With Flossie from the chorus.
They mooned ’way down at Hobart Town,
Then on a run he took her
To see her “par” and her “mammar”
Up north of Barrabooka.
They dashed that far in Artie’s car,
Inspiring great elation;
The ol’ man spoke of “Flossie’s bloke”
With warmest admiration.
He clapped her prize, and dashed his eyes,
And said he, “Well, I never!
I’m mighty glad Flo’s copped a lad
Tha’s won’erfully clever.”
He eyed the car, did Flossie’s par,
And rubbed his hands and chuckled,
And said “You beaut! A fox as cute
As you was never suckled.”
Art marked the admiration glad
He’d moved his new-made kin to.
On knowing why, Flo heard him sigh:
“What have I married into?”
Said par-in-law, with pointing paw,
“What’s that car wuth, young feller?”
“I gave a round six hundred pound.”
“What!” roared the stern bush-dweller.
“You bought it? Say, you are a jay.”
An oath terrific clinched it.
“Well, saints alive, >for three days I’ve
Bin thinkin’ that you pinched it!”'
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


A
O
1*
mb?
Do You Want to
Save Some Money?
Re-insulating a battery is about the
most expensive repair there is.
And there’s only one kind of battery in
general use that isn’t practically certain to
be re-insulated—or junked—within the next
year or two.
That one exception is the Willard
Battery with Threaded Rubber Insulation.
.llOfltL
STORAGE
BATTERY
f Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY


Holeproofs are made bp
scientific method s, de-
veloped only in recent
pears.
COearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of always having
perfect Ho sierp soft,
neatly-fitting, stylish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“HOLEPROOF ”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multi pig, their
durabilitg.
If gour dealer cannot supplg
gou, write us.
Indents and 1 Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
50 York Street :: Sydney.
It’s a Starved
Skin That Gets
Dry and Rough
that gives you lines and
wrinkles before you
know it.
CREME ELCAYA is the ideal
treatment for your skin during
the day. Itisnon-greasy—just
a harmless cream that the
hungry skin absorbs.
Follow this simple formula —
‘A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the (kin;
then if you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care*
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
powder over all.**
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, noil' greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
, makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/6-
All gocci Stores and Chemists,
or direct front
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Elcaya Co. Inc., New York, U.S.A.
hR:
Ji
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane's Leading' Hotel.
ilL-
m
«ssUi
OV»N-5 0y
$
wSu^
* hl *i
E
<MH«
JOHNSOKW®#
KACINf W.i __
•4*
ffifLLZ!
Just
Like New
ANY housewife can easily
ii keep her home clean
and bright by devoting a
little attention to her furniture, woodwork, floors and
linoleum. All they need is an occasional application of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax. This cleans, polishes and pro-
tects the finish, adding years to its life and beauty.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a hard, dry, glasslike
polishof great beauty and durability. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches—preserves the varnish—and
prevents checking and cracking.
Hi
li
Liquid and Paste
Johnson’s Prepared Wax contains no oil consequently it
does not gather or hold the dust and it never becomes soft
or sticky in the hottest weather or from the heat of the
body. It will quickly and permanently remove that bluish,
cloudy appearance from your piano and mahogany furniture.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made in liquid form as well
as paste. Use paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile, lino-
leum, etc. We advise the liquid for polishing furniture,
woodwork, leather goods, etc.
A Dust-Proof Auto Polish
Automobile owners will find Johnson’s Liquid Wax the
most satisfactory polish for their cars. It sheds water and
dust and makes a "wash” last twice as long. Protects and
preserves the varnish. Write for our folder on "Keeping
Your Car Young”— it’s free.
S. C. Johnson & Son
397 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Including Livingston, the whip, who will
attend Cabinet meetings, there are 13 mem-
bers in the re-formed Vic. Ministry; the
tally of the Hayseed party is 13 ; and the
number of new members elected to the
Assembly on October 21 was 13.
Launceston has taken a last farewell of
William Coultman Smith. The old man
came to Australia and joined the Victorian
railway service in 1861, but before that he
arid a brother grew sugar in Fiji, and they
afterwards received the Government bounty
for the first sugar grown in Australasia.
The veteran was stationmaster *at Launces-
-ton when the Duke of Edinburgh wandered
along there.
With Lawson and Peacock backing him
in the Ministry and Opposition-leader Pren-
dergast friendly, Peter Mcßride will be able to
get an extension of his term as Vic. Agent-
General in London next year—if he wants
it. The other A.-G.’s will certainly want him
to want it. When there is any joint enter-
taining to be done, it is Peter who has to
see to the menu and other abstruse prob-
lems.
John Bull is now busy on the first oilwell
in his own back yard. Complete ’Murkan
drilling plant was set to work a few weeks
ago at Kelham, near Newark (Notts.), and
the hole is to go down 2500 ft. to the oil-
source indicated by the trial boye. But, if
necessary, the plant is capable of sinking
twice that depth. A derrick is already up
on a second site, and drilling will commence
there when the first well is complete.
“San Fran.”: The furphies perpetrated by
film publicity agents have at last given even
Uncle Sam the tired feeling, and an order
has been promulgated that any person who
gives to an editor, reporter or other inno-
cent citizen employed by a newspaper “any
false or untrue statement concerning any
person or film-producing corporation, with
intent that same shall be published, is guilty
of a misdemeanor,” and may be fined or
even gaoled.
From the 20,000-odd horse-power already
developed by the Great Lake hydro-electric
scheme the Speck expects a revenue of
£74,000 this year, which should easily cover
all running costs and interest charges, and
leave a good margin for depreciation and
contingencies. General-manager Butters
declares that 216,000 h.-p. can be developed
from the five schemes already examined, in-
cluding a total of 70,000 eventually from
the Great Lake, but he says that he will not
be satisfied until he knows where to find
500,000 h.-p. The Speck has been kicking
about the duty on some of its machinery,
overlooking that a good high tariff: is the
chief factor in assuring customers for its
power.
From a Sydney barrister at work on the
press in London :
I suppose Australia wants to be advertised in
London; I don’t know why else it spent a million
or so on Australia House and pays £BOO a year to
an officer to run an Intelligence Department. Yet
I assure you that every time I have asked Australia
House or the N. •S. - Wales Agent-General’s office for
photographs to illustrate articles accepted by Eng-
lish papers, none were to be had. There was rather
an important article written lately for a London
magazine. The editor asked for an up-to-date picture
or two of Sydney Harbor. Neither Australia House
nor the N. S. Wales Agent-General had a single pic-
ture of Sydney Harbor. I got one for him from
a German picture agent. The editor, by the way,
had no difficulty whatever about getting pictures of
the other Pacific harbors of Auckland, San Francisco,
Vancouver and Kobe.
“Ragar” : Fancy beads made of stone,
shell, wood, coral, ivory, bone and tortoise-
shell are selling better than ever and Aus-
tralia has the shell—M.O.P., trochus, black-
lip, gold-lip, helmet, clam, and a score or
more of others that have not even been tried
yet, though for beauty of color and body they
are unbeatable. Most of the ivory beads are
made from the teeth of animals, and here the
slaughter-houses would provide an endless
supply. Also our Northern waters are well
filled with dugong, whose tusks are ivory
proper. Yet hardly a bead, stud or button
is fashioned in the Commonwealth. Some
time back I made beads of clam shell, black-
lip and dugong for the kiddies, though I had
only an old lathe and had never even seen
beads made. There’s money in it. Prices
are high, materials are to be had for the
picking-up, and a man doesn’t want a ton
of stuff to start on making a bead.
“Two Seas” on the “good old days” of
border duties:—
Mention of the sale of the old Customs station
that stood on the Albury-Wodohga road stirs a slug-
gish memory. In the ’seventies an old chap with
ginger whiskers used to drive a coach between
Albury and Wodonga. His name was Filmer. The
Customs officer was named McGillicuddie. He used
to bail up the coach in search of dutiable goods,
down to a paper bag full of fruit. Wodonga folk
did a lot of shopping in Albury, especially for cloth-
ing, which was much cheaper on that side of the
Murray. Mac would order everyone in the coach
to stand up for inspection. In vain one wore the
new hat and carried»the old one in a pocket.
Mac would ferret out the old chapeau and demand
duty upon the new. I have known him to invite
a passenger into his humpy and there charge ad
valorem duty upon the new suit concealed under the
old one. It was a simple transaction. Mac just
mentioned what he thought was a fair thing—from
pounds to pence—and the victim paid it. He wasn’t
above taking coppers. A nice snug billet; but in
those days public servants didn’t make the most of
their opportunities. Still Mac had his troubles —
chiefly women, who are always the keenest smugglers.
Sale time in Albury was a bad season for him.
Women hated to have a bit snipped off a “bargain”
by Mac. Consequently that conscientious officer
always fixed his eyes appraisingly upon the waist-
lines of the ladies as they stood up for inspection.
He knew most of their normal measurements from
frequent observation, and few got past him with
a dozen yards of flannel as a, liver pad. But one
day he met his Waterloo in a coach filled with women
who had attended a winter sale of drapery largely
advertised in Albury. “Kindly stand up, ladies,”
he requested. He looked along the seats, and then
“What have you got concealed there?” he inquired,
pointing to a rather stout lady. Immediately poor
Mac was poked and smitten hard with heavy gamps,
clawed and shrieked at indignantly by the whole
freemasonry of ladies. The astounded old bachelor
fled to his humpy and Filmer whipped up his
horses. Whatever it was that aroused old Mac’s
suspicion, there could be no doubt that the ladies
were, for once, unanimously agreed that it was
“duty free,”


More Miles on Plume
The speedometer is one of the most interesting
features of your car. The miles you have travelled
that day —the distance for the season—the pace you
are making at the moment—are things that you re-
quire to know in order to learn if your car is at its
best. By comparison you will realize how much
greater mileage you obtain from Plume Benzine.
Plume gives that extra mileage that makes such a
difference to the spirit bill at the end of the month.
Fill up with Plume next time, and check your
1 mileage. You will be pleased at the increased
mileage and consequent reduction of your running
expenses.
Don’t say Benzine—ask for
Plume.
Write our nearest Branch for free
booklet, ,<c Uhe Care of Your Car’
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd 1 .
(P£*JS>Z±S-
ESOOB
DEIS
seu«n
Tvtp
m
j
o
j
t
W'
m
Black FriarsDistiup
PlvnoutH
•ISH«
Cnclano
The purest spirit in
the world.
Coates’ Dry Gin is not
only mellow in flavor, but,
because it is rich in juniper,
possesses medicinal powers
of great value.
COATES’
Original Plymouth
DRY GIN
Ever since it was first distilled in
1793, this quality product has
maintained the same high degree of
purity and excellence.
Every bottle is thoroughly matured
at the famous Blackfriars’ Dis-
tillery, Plymouth, England, before
being packed and shipped.
All good hotels, clubs, wine and
spirit stores, etc.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Sole Agents, Sydney.
Interstate Agents:
H. J. LANGDON & CO., Melbourne.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
SEPPELT & SON, West Australia.
rrrmv*
mrTTTTn
AMP
The IMPROVED CHAMPION REVERSIBLE ROAD MACHINE.
The CHAMPION PATENT WHEEL EARTH SCOOP.
CHAMPION WIARD ALL-STEEL ROAD PLOW.
CHAMPION SCOOP, WITH FIXED HANDLES.
“CHAMPION” ROAD-
MAKING MACHINERY
Does the Work Better, Does the Work Quicker.
Saves Expense and Costs Little in Upkeep.
Our experience in road machinery dates back many, many years.
We have met and overcome the difficulties that presented them-
selves. Champion Road Machines are not in the experimental
stage. They have evolved through years of experimenting, until
to-day they have reached the . acme of perfection in Road
Machinery. Champion Road Machinery is designed to perform
certain duties which it does exceedingly well. Here we feature
four implements. The first is
THE IMPROVED CHAMPION REVERSIBLE ROAD MACHINE
which has an Bft. blade, enabling the user to do more work, than
with other machines having a 7ft. blade. The improved front
coupling relieves the strain on the horses’ necks.
The second illustration depicts the
CHAMPION WHEEL EARTH SCOOP, with patent shafts,
which greatly increase its efficiency and prevent all jar and
oscillation from coming on the horses’ necks.
THE CHAMPION WIARD STEEL BEAM ROAD PLOW
is light yet substantially built, and is ideal for ordinary road
contractors’ work. Our free booklet No. 13 describes it fully.
Send for it.
The bottom illustration is a
CHAMPION SEAMLESS SCOOP with fixed handles.* You can
use these scoops economically in ploughed or unploughed soil.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS OF
ALL THESE ROAD MACHINES.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.
Union House, 247 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Collins House,
MELBOURNE.
Union Bank Chambers,
BRISBANE.


Pimples and Rash, Would Nearly
Drive Little Girl Crazy.
*'My little girl broke out all over
with pimples and a rash. She could
not sleep with the burning
and itching and used to
scratch until she would be
nearly bleeding, and her hair
started to fall out. The itch-
ing would nearly drive her
mad.
"‘I sent for a free sample of Cuticura
Soap and Ointment and the first night
she seemed a lot easier. I then bought
more which healed her.” Mrs. M.
Brodie, Stewart St., Paddington, Syd-
ney.
Keep your skin healthy by using
Cuticura Soap daily for the toilet,
with touches of Ointment to the
first signs of pimples, redness or
roughness. 1
For sample each address : “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere. -
2WF”Cuticura Soap shaves without muz.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER 01 NTHENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
Pota strop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 30/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
. 76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE-
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
m
The Car for the
Owner-Driver
Comfort in keeping- with
its appearance of quiet
elegance are features
of the STANDARD
LIGHT CAR that has
won the favor of the
Overseas Owner-driver.
TRe
T
LIGHT CAR
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN 1. GLOWBEY, Proprietor.
r\
(Xr4 .3 b
Williams
Baby Talc
net o;
m
j sms
Talc Powders!
Has served to quieten babies the
world over. It cools and soothes
their easily chafed skins Under
the gentle soothing influence of
Williams’ Baby Talc. Powder the
fiery inflammation is quickly
soothed away and forgotten.
Williams’ Baby Talc. Powder never cakes
on tbe skin or becomes rancid. It is
packed in a dainty container fitted with a
convenient hinged cover, which prevents
waste or loss of fragrance. Sold by
Chemists and Drapers everywhere.
W 28
m
m
h
SUiniu
I
till
//
ill
bz
3)U&
OT
ft.
\V^
IW
o 5?
6
CpG^
'O'f'
tzzrii
look well-
fit well-
wear well—
Thistle Shirts appeal to a
man’s critical taste. They
have the workmanship,
refinement and finish appre-
ciated by discriminating shirt
buyers.
Every detail —every little thing that
makes perfection is attended to
with exacting care.
Always ask for Thistle Shirts and Pyjamas.
Sold in all leading
Clothing Departments
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
AS 53
Lloyd George has declared once more that
Archbishop Mannix will not be allowed to
visit Ireland, thereby establishing the pre-
cedent that the British Empire isn’t neces-
sarily free to a British subject. Let’s see —
wasn’t it Dr. Mannix who promised to do
all the mischief he could in Australia?
“Copabella”: There are pitfalls in the
path of even the best-conducted businesses.
A firm of butchers which opened a branch
in an up-south provincial town had among
its first customers the municipal clerk, who
desired an ox tongue. The new firm had
none in stock, but a town-clerk’s custom is
worth securing, and it sent to another shop
for the goods. The eagle eye of the pur-
chaser noted that the meat had not upon
it the municipal brand of abattoirs-inspec-
i.oii, anu.neXL uiing tne obliging firm knew
was Nemesis on the doorstep with a sum-
mons for a breach of the branding regula-
tions.
H. G. Wells returned from a visit to
Russia still trying to preserve his faith in
the good intentions —the hell-paving good
intentions—of the Direct Action leaders at
Moscow, but with a poor idea <pf their
capacity. In Petrograd, the newest of the
great Old World cities, with over 2,000,000
people, he found —
The streets are not like Bond-street or Piccadilly
on Sunday, with the blinds of the shops neatly drawn
down for a decorous sleep, reawakening on Monday;
for these shops will never open again. They are
dead and utterly wretched and have an abandoned
look. The paint is peeling off. The windows are
cracked or broken, or boarded up and covered with
Perhaps they still display a few fly-blown
relics', but the fixtures are covered with two years’
dust.
They are great shutters-up, these deafening
and place-hunting “reformers.” They closed
Darwin, Broken Hill and Petrograd, and the
overseas shipping trade of Brisbane. In parts
of Italy the workers “took over” the fac-
tories two or three months ago, and already
the great F.I.A.T. motor works, employing
100,000 workers, have closed. There have
been other closures, of course, as in Russia,
but the F.I.A.T. was big enough to get a
cablegram to itself.
“Copy Boy”: The American niggers have
discovered a new Moses in Marcus Garvey,
a British negro from Jamaica, who is start-
ing a back-to-Africa movement with the idea
of establishing a vast nigger Commonwealth.
For 70 years Liberia has failed to lure
black brudder from the haunts of the white
races, but Garvey refuses to think of failure.
He says there are 400,000,000 blacks in the
world, and if they would only make Africa
their home the whites would quickly realise
the advisableness of leaving the country to
them. Yankee niggers are pouring money
into the movement. Garvey has his head-
quarters in N’Yark and has organised the
Universal Negro-Improvement Association
and African Communities League, which
has 600 branches and a membership of more
than 2.000,000. The League has recently
founded the Black Star line of goods steam-
ers, exclusively owned, officered and manned
by niggers. At present it consists of three
ships. Garvey reckons he can organise fac-
tories and banks in Liberia under nigger
ownership and establish there a sort of Vati-
can for the protection of the black race.
“Dricky” : Lyctus brunneus, the furniture
borer, and his pal Anobiim, the pin-hole
bug, are very busy in the stuff which passes
these days for Tasmanian hardwood. Lyctus
holds court in the sapwood, being somewhat
fastidious in his taste, while Anoby, having
a catholic hunger and an overwhelming
inquisitiveness, will push info anything
handy. The sportive rumblings of Lyc. in
pre-war days were not much in the public
eye, because hardwood was so cheap, and
only good, sound timber was marketed. Since
the price of hardwood has soared, however,
there is no longer any selection ; consequently
sapwood, quickly-grown swamp-gum and un-
seasoned timber are avidly snapped up by
buyers. It’s a certainty that sojne unsus-
pecting Digger will raise a howl soon when
the floor-joists and roof-principals of his
Gratuity home collapse as the result of the
wanderlust of Lyctus. Like lovers and other
wrongdoers, he prefers to work in the dark,
and it is only time and inevitable disaster
which reveal his depredations. A dash of
creosote in his schweppes effectively lulls
him to slumber; hence all timber for use
in unexposed positions should be treated with
creosote or creosote and white arsenic mixed.
The peregrinations of Anoby are not so
prominent; nevertheless he makes his pres-
ence known —ultimately. Both pests, like
some of our forebears, were given a free
passage to the Speck early in the last cen-
tury, and, liking the climate, stayed.
“Stargazer”: When Jimmy Cathcart gave
“As You Like It” in the Goulburn River
district (Vic.) years ago, such a thing as an
outdoor performance of W. Shakspeare had
never been heard of in those parts. Cath-
cart’s trouble was an inability to get a decent
hall, but in the course of a stroll he discov-
ered in a convenient paddock a large, low
dam bank that was an ideal stage, with a
setting of gums and a tiny creek eminently
suitable for a perfomance of “As You Lise
It.” The weather was glorious, and Jimmy’s
mind was made up. Out went the intimation
that a matinee open-air performance of
Shakspeare’s most delightful comedy would
take place in Barr’s paddock on Saturday ;
admission, 25.; pay at the gate. For the
exclusion of deadheads, Cathcart hired two
of Barr’s boundary-riders, who cantered
round the 20-acre paddock, keeping n n-
paying spectators beyond the fences. Alas,
only the most wretched sprinkling of an
audience paid at the gate, while on the dis-
tant rails perched all the rest of the inhabi-
tants of the township. Having put two acts
through, Cathcart told the riders they could
advise the distant spectators that the,v were
welcome to enter and gather round. There
was no sign of any acceptance, and a bound-
ary-rider came cantering up with the
explanation. “They won’t come, mister,” he
said. “They’re afraid it’s a trick.” “A
trick!” cried Cathcart. “How could I trick
the fools?” “Well.” said the horseman cau-
tiously. “they think you might take up a
collection!”


COMFORT
IN
FOOTWEAR
is secured to wearers of
ABBEY SHOES.
They are specially designed and carefully
modelled to give the utmost in comfort
and long wear.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby
Bal. in a smart “made-to-order” style.
Price: 84/-
In Tan Willow Calf, 67/6
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Qeorg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Made in Australia from the English Formula.
Cures all eruptions of the skin. Is a sure
safeguard against infection. For the sick-
room. the nursery and the toilet. Ladies,
try it for your hair.
Large Tablets, 1/3.
All Chemists, or from
KAPPS’ SOAP AGENCY
Ryrie Ijane, off Flinders Fane,
Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
COUTH AUSTRALIA—IN THE SUPREME COURT.
O MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
No. 525 of 1919.
BETWEEN HARRIET DEMPSTER Petitioner and
PERCY DEMPSTER Respondent and JOHN ;
WARDLE Co-respondent.
TO JOHN .WARDLE at one time of Port Adelaide in
tiie State of South Australia Fireman and Trimmer.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date the thir- j
tieth day of March one thousand nine hundred arid I
twenty has been issued out of the Supreme Court of
South Australia citing you to appear to answer the j
Answer of the aboyenamed respondent PERCY DEMP- ;
STER praying for a dissolution of his marriage with
his write the abovenamed HARRIET DEMPSTER on the
ground of her having committed adultery with you.
IN DEFAULT of your so doing the said Court will
proceed to hear the said charge proved in due course
of law and to pronounce Sentence therein your
absence notwithstanding. THEREFORE take notice
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within sixteen
(16) days from the date of the last insertion of this !
advertisement to attend in person or by your j
proctor solicitor or attorney at the office of the said
Court Victoria Square Adelaide and there to enter
an appearance in accordance writh the rules in that
behalf.
CHARLES LEMPRIERE ABBOTT,
Scottish House, King William Street, Adelaide,
Proctor for the Petitioner.
« W. L. STUART,
Master of the Supreme Court of South Australia.
Auction Sale.
TUESDAY, 7th DECEMBER, at 3 p.tn.
TO MERCHANTS, WAREHOUSEMEN AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Auction Sale of
Magnificent Warehouse Site
in centre of the City of Perth.
W. A. LEARMONTH, DUFFY & CO.,
under instructions from
THE TRUSTEES of the ESTATE of the
LATE JOHN NORTON,
will offer
BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
at the
PALACE HOTEL, PERTH,
on above date.
Perth Town Lot P 9, writh a double frontage of 99
feet to Murray Street and 103 feet to Wellington
Street by a through depth of 402 feet, between
Government Mines Department Buildings and Mac-
farlane’s Stores, and is third block from Pier Street.
THIS IS THE ONLY REMAINING VACANT LAND
IN THE MAIN BUSINESS AREA OF THE CITY.
Amusements.
Harry Kickarils Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINiOSH.
T 1 VOLI THEATRE, SIDNEY.
■ EVENINGS AT 8.
Matin&es Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
HUGH D. McINTOSH PRESENTS
LEE WHITE,
in THE GIRL FOR THE BOY,
the greatest musical comedy since girls were made.
Interpolated: Feature Musical Turn of
BAILEY & COWAN, with ESTELLE DAVIS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
I VO I,I THEATRE. M E LISOU RN E.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents another Musical
Masterpiece.
MAGGIE.
Starring engagement of VERA PEARCE and
IVY SHILLING.
Prices as usual.
H
Klt MA.IES T V ’ S. s ' NK '
Lessees and Managers: J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays.
DOROTHY~BRUNTON in
SO LONG, LETTY.
A Star Artist in a Star Play.
Plans at Paling’s. __
,|{ITE R I O N I II EATIt E. SYDNEY.
’ Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LAST NIGiiTS OF
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
PAEACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON Ltd.
Farewell Season of MARIE TEMPEST and
GRAHAM BROWNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Last Two Nights of THE MARRIAGE OF KITI > .
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 20.
AT THE BARN.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
NION 1-ICTUJt E TIIEA T R E S
TIIE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KINO’S CROSS,
WESTS OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
u
<3. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 20
The Musical Comedy that exceeds the speed limit,
THE BOY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 20.
The Famous Traveller and Explorer,
LOWELL THOMAS.
Plans at Allan’s/ Prices as usual.
Kino’s theatre. mei,ro u r n e.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J C Williamson, Ltd., present John D. O’Hara in
SHORE ACRES, Plan at Allan’s.
A Comedy Drama of Laughter ami—
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
Last nights of Allan Wilkie and Miss Hunter-Watts.
To-night. HAMLET; To-morrow (Friday), IHH
COMEDY OF ERRORS; Grand Final Performance,
MACBETH, Saturday, 20th November.
Box plan at the Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge!.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES;
WILLIAM FARNUM in
THE LAST OF THE DUANES.
HARRY CAREY in
RIDERS OF VENGEANCE.
Prices as usual.
kLYJIPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIRTH BROS.’ NEW CIRCUS, LTD.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
T THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY.BE RESERVED.
|y|A,IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
GEORGE BEY AN in
THE ALIEN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
. KITANMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE
►
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
BVI
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
he productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,,
i'ORLD and SLLZNICk.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Used the
World Over
a
MOTOR
...CARS
*j}utte\bc
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
Invaluable for
Nerve Troubles, Headaches,
Kidney 8 Liver Derangements.
All Chemists and Stores—in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
-Absolute Dependability-
When the greatest accuracy has to be observed, you must
have absolute dependability in your tool steel.
“Kite” Brand Tool Steel
will meet your needs as no steel can. Its non-shrinkable
qualities ensure the utmost accuracy in cutting.
Supplied in rounds and squares of all sizes.
Particulars promptly supplied on request to desk “A.”
The Eagle and Globe Steel Co., Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Ratrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgroorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., X,td., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, litd., Newcastle.
SPORTS COATS
**
Golf, Tennis, Fishing and
Shooting.
Donegal and Connemara Hand-woven IRISH
AND SCOTCH TWEEDS, with Leather
Buttons.
£5/5/- to £6/6/-
Also Burberry Waterproof
Norfolks, £7/15/-
White and Grey Flannel
Trousers, Loose Fitting.
White Wool Tennis Socks.
Leather Belts.
JUST LANDED—NEW GOLF-COAT
SWEATER,
latest shades, extra light weight.
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
mm
For
All linen
TO ENSURE PROTECTION
AND INDIVIDUALITY . .
CASH’S WOVEN NAMES are in
World-wide favour, through Quality and
Utility. Any name is woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Colour. Easily
sewn to any article or garment whatever
Fabric.
Be Sure and Ask for Cash’s Names
Prices — 12doz. 4/6,6d0z. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
Sold by Alt Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
«K>9
G
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
We Desire
to Buy
PLATINUM, at £l2 per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS. PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd,”{SKjt


DO YOUR XMAS THINKING NOW.
Do not be like the multitude who wished they had.
Think Xmas —Think Chocolates -Think Golden Gate
and your Christmas worries are over.
We have gathered from the world’s markets a wonderful assortment of the most
BEAUTIFUL BASKETS AND SWEETMEAT BOXES
ever brought to Australia.
ihese are attractively decorated and most exclusive in design and exquisite in colorings, marvels of beauty
and absolutely new o, j
i>oxes and baskets are filled with our hand-made, hand-dipped Chocolates, each piece being a mouthful of
4^S ffulneSS__Creamy ’ fruity and nut centr es—smooth, crisp coating, in fact, GOLDEN GATE
L tIUvUIvA JL li^o.
Daintily and carefully packed.
Also our Blue and Gold Chocolates, in
boxes, from 7/6 to £l/7/6.
Various sizes from 6/6 to £6/6/- •
And SUPER CHOCOLATES. Milk and
Bittersweet assortments. Boxes 6/- & 10/6.
These prices include all packing and postage charges.
Golden Qfltc Sundae S hop, Pitt & Market Streets,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s 1 “So Long, Letty”
Criterion “Irene”
Palace “At the Barn”
Tivoli “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Boy”
Royal Lowell Thomas
King’s “Shore Acres”
Tivoli “Maggie”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
. Glaciarium Dancing
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
■ ♦
Not much fault can be found with “The
Pirates of Penzance” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
except that one is charged threepence for
a programme which, ascribes to Strella
Wilson the part of Edith when she is
notoriously playing the part of Mabel, and
doing it uncommonly well. The old Rule
Britannia tableau, which used to conclude
this sweetly and simply satirical Gilbertian
opera, and which the bulk of the audience
used to take seriously, is no longer attached
to the joke, but the old incongruity between
the poke bonnets and frilled frocks of
Majah-General Stanley’s daughters and the
merely 40-year-old uniform of the warrior
himself is repeated as of yore. The ana-
chronism is now time-honored, and the early-
Victorian bonnets are a highly becoming job
lot, anyhow. “The Pirates” ends a 15-
weeks’ season of the co., and leaves Miss
Wilson practically established as first favor-
ite in Melbourne. Her Josephine in “Pina-
fore” and Mabel in the present opera were
improvements on her earlier efforts, simply
because she has been on the artistic upgrade
all the time. James Hay, on the other hand,
was never quite, so good as in “The Yeo-
men,” because Colonel Fairfax is a straight
part, and Hay’s best histrionics are sombre
in tone. His mock heroics are capitally
elocuted —as the elocution of light tenors
goes—but the manner of them is a bit
hard and dry. Hobbs reaches his high-
water mark in “The Pirates” because the
broad caricature part plays itself; whilst
Ethel Morrison, acceptable in everything, is
less at home these last nights than Walenn,
Kavanagh, Arnold and Thelma Carter. Patti
Russell would be at home if she had a place
among the tribe of daughters, but seemingly
she hasn’t. On Saturday comes “The Boy”
from the Royal. ,
A depressing comedy-drama, heavy with
molasses, has come to Melbourne King’s
under the title of “Shore Acres.” The hero
of the story is a dear old lighthouse-keeper,
Nathaniel Berry, who with a swag of
Christian precepts and a heavenly smile
makes life beautiful for old and young. Nat
is first seen romping with the children and
passing honeyed comfort to his favorite niece,
who is forbidden by a brutal father to
associate with the brightest young man in
the village. Dad wants Helen for a
lugubrious land-boomster who eventually
“Shore Acres,” at
Melbourne King's.
John D. O'Hara loses
his temper.
leaves him in a
financial mess, but
when the girl flits
with her masterful
young man, who
has meantime been
charged with rob-
ber y, the ag e d
parent adjourns
a n anniversary
feed of turkey and
trifle to chase the
fugitives with all
available weapons.
Hereabouts Uncle
Nat doubles Jus
usefulness as a
guardian angel by
breaking open his
money-box for the
departed pair and
getting them a pas-
sage on the Biddy
Ann. Through a
neglected lamp in
the lighthouse, the
vessel goes t o
pieces in a dark
tableau of heaving
billows that left
room for explana-
tion on Saturday
night. There follows a great struggle
in the lighthouse between Nat and
his maddened brother, Martin; but the busi-
ness is fraught with absurdity, inasmuch as
the harrowed Nat wastes time in irrelevancies
whilst the Biddy’s gun booms for help out-
side. The fate of Helen and her Sam is also
left in doubt until they return on Christmas
Eve with a load of forgiveness for all con-
cerned. But before the curtain drops Uncle
Nat gets a chance to crown liis record of
philanthropy by lifting his brother’s mort-
gage with an unexpected windfall from the
U.S. Government.
John D. O’Hara’s Nathaniel hasn’t the
quality and humor of his Lightnin’. Per-
haps his acting only sparkles in grog-sodden
roles. Certainly, robbed of Lightnin’s brandy,
O’Hara doesn’t provide much light and shade,
and merely reveals the ghost of an engaging
personality. Frederick Esmelton has the
physical emphasis to back a forceful vocabu-
lary, but the part is such a travesty of
parental feeling that no one could be ex-
pected to make it convincing. Thomas
Lloyd is the next in importance as the Get-
Rich-Quickest in the State of Maine, and the
actor’s sideboards and hard square hat are
in keeping with his manner as a mortgagee;
and Robert Toms is Sam, about whom one
only remembers that when he returns from
his wanderings he has grown a Charlie Chap-
lin mo. Lizette Parkes, as Helen, provides
her usual heroine disclosing a shade of
shrewishness in her unbending propriety.
Margaret Sutcliffe, as her mamma, generally
gets a laugh by repeating the last phrase of
every sentence she utters, and her whole
mind seems concentrated on giving a ludi-
crous tone to the encore. Marion Marcus
Clarke, Margaret Maclyn and Lilian Mc-
Kenny pair off with Arthur Cornell, H. H.
Wallace and Fred Cambourne to furnish
enough appetites for Martin’s silver-wedding
anniversary ; and several youngsters, a couple
of horses, a colony of pigeons and a cat are
other ingredients of the sorry tale.
Marie Tempest and Graham Browne were
linked together in unholy matrimony on
Saturday night at Sydney Palace in “The
Marriage of Kitty.” Marie Tempest’s Kitty
“ IRENE ,” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
J. P. Rawdon (Henry Gordon ) assists Ms
proposal to Irene ( Dorothy South) with
a gift.
is so sophisticated a damsel that she sounds
like a real chip of the old blockhead —the old
blockhead being a dad who bequeathed to
his only child a sheaf of other women’s
millinery bills and £9B 17s. She goes
to London determined to do anything to
earn an honest living—except work. Good
luck throws a temporary husband and a
good settlement her way, but Kitty deter-
mines to take the temporary husband on a
permanent lease, and the second and third
acts show her doing it in a succession of
frocks and gowns that suggest a mannequin
parade working overtime. The last “crea-
tion” is a tea-gown in passionate pink
that makes Sir Reginald Belsize (Graham
Browne) see red and dash off with Kitty
in the very taxi that was intended to carry
him and the Peruvian widow he had en-
gaged to marry after he had divorced Kitty.
But, somehow, you felt at the end that such
an adventure couldn’t possibly happen to
Graham or Marie—their combined worldly
wisdom and avoirdupois would be proof
against such carryings-on. Dorothy Hamil-
ton’s Madame di Semiane was a hard-work-
ing young woman who excelled in hysterics.
Roger Barry’s office-boy was a delight,
Ashton Jarry made Kitt.v’s godfather a like-
able chap, and Doris Gilliam and Herbert
Millard were the discreet and capable domes-
tics of Kitty’s villa.
** * *
The matrimonial exchange experiment in
“So Long, Letty,” at Sydney Majesty’s is
proving just as unsuccessful as might be
expected. The initial step of marriage may
be a gamble, but it’s a loaded dice compared
with the risk attached to taking on your
neighbor’s bad spec. Still, they will con-
tinue to discover that the devil you know is
better than the neighbor’s wife you don’t
for another week. By that time they should
be convinced. The “So Long, Letty,” revival
gives Dorothy Brunton a splendid chance
as the vivacious, irresponsible wife of the
awkward, rather tiresome George Willoughbv.
and incidentally shows the chorus off to very
good advantage. It’s a good show and a
blessed relief from cheap Yankee crooks
and hollow revues. And there’s the pink-
and-gold ballet, of course
This page isn’t sure whether Conan Doyle
is a Sundry Show or not; but it turned up
at Sydney Town Hall on Monday night to
hear whether the inventor of Sherlock
Holmes had ever asked the spirits to find
out- from Will Shakspeare what he thinks of
Charlie Chaplin. Instead of getting any such
really interesting information, after a long
dissertation somebody merely asked Doyle
whether he didn’t think spiritualism was a
friend of the lunatic asylum’s. This aspect
of the matter will be discussed at a matinde
on Saturday.
•1*
The Verbrugghen orchestral concert drew
another fine house to Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday night. Amy Castles was the
soloist, and her audience enjoyed her “Waltz
Song” from Romeo and Juliet much more
than the ponderous “Ah! Perfido” of
Beethoven. The big orchestral item was the
Symphony Pathetique of Tschaikowsky, which
found a fitting place in an Armistice Week
programme that commenced with the Chopin
“Funeral March.” This time the tutored
audience forebore to make any glad noises
at the conclusion of (the number. The
orchestra also gave the “Nut-cracker Suite,”
now quite familiar to Sydney audiences, and
(very gracefully) the “Di Ballo” overture
of Sullivan.
* * Hs Hs
The blow has fallen. “Irene” is leaving
Sydney Criterion in a fortnight’s time.
$ $ $' *
At Sydney Tivoli “The Girl” is still in
pursuit of “The Boy” after the subtle
fashion of her sex. Lee White is the girl,
and the chase proceeds amidst a riot of rag-
time rhymes, syncopated melodies, Ethiopian
shuffles and other triumphs of American
civilisation. It is a good show of its kind,
and the offertories are satisfactory.
V JjS
Sydney Crystal Palace and Strand have
a winner this week in “The Red Lantern,”
with Nazimova as Mahlee, the fascinating
half-caste girl whose absconding father is a
flighty English baronet and whose mother
was a beautiful little Chinee lady. Poor
little Mahlee has a bad time all round, begin-
ning when her Chinese grandmamma turns
crusty, because her feet are so large, until
she flings all her talent and beauty into
the Boxer rebellion, and as the goddess of
the Red Lantern manages to get a cut back
at dad and the half-sister who has annexed
her young man. The Lyceum has Sylvia
Bremer chasing around for a lost garter;
also Mabel Normand is Pinto, the girl from
the big outback where conventions don’t
count and hearts grow as big as prize cab-
bages.. The English cricketers are thrown
on this screen to preserve the balance of
beauty. Pretty Molly Willoughby, with
Bendrodt supports, dances a prologue to
“The Dancing Fool,” in which Bebe Daniels
and Wallace Reid combine steps in a
cabaret scene; and “Behind the Door” is a
perfect submarine nightmare of German per-
fidy and a brave and loving husband’s re-
venge. These are at the Globe.
* * si;
t This week is Allan Wilkie’s Feast of
Shakspeare at Melbourne Princess’s. Any-
one who would prefer a banquet of boiled
herbs with tripe is advised to stay away,
but all who regard poetic drama as good,
wholesome fare at the price will be in-
terested to know that “Hamlet” is the
joint to-night (Thursday), “Comedy of
Errors” will be served to-morfow, and a
final performance of “Macbeth” will close
the season on Saturday. E. J. Carroll
brings a picture-show—“ The Confession”—
on Monday.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the harmony of “The
Boy” is still suffering one disturbance that
was inevitable under the circs. Maude Fane’s
part was insufficiently large, according to
ordinary managerial measurements of such
things, so they introduced an unpardonable
Chinese divertissement, or something to that
effect, in which gentle Maudie is introduced
whilst the lights are low, in order that she
may sing about her bamboo chair. The dis-
guised lady and her ditty have no more to do
with the rest of the musical comedy than
milestones on the Dover-road, but if you
let your mind wander and try to think that
a revue is in progress the picturesque
irrelevancy is rather agreeable than other-
wise. “The Boy,” as elsewhere mentioned,
moves to Her Majesty’s on Saturday.
At Melbourne Tivoli, where “Maggie” is
busting up her £3OO, an irate French lady
continues to shock the serenity of Marcel,
the costumier, by raising her voice within
earshot of the cr@pe de Chine, just when that
delicate material is in urgent need of rest
and repose. Also Vera Pearce continues to
act as ammonia on the color scheme of
Marcel aforesaid, and if Ivy Shilling were
not available in a moonlight sonata cloak to
dance with the distressed man-milliner he
would probably be seized with a navy blue
fit, and die in unbecoming drab convulsions.
As a matter of cold fact, the grace of Ivy
goes far to save the show, as well as the life
of Marcel.
Lowell Thomas, the man who talks of
Anzacs in Palestine and Arabia and gives a
new romantic interest to cinematography, is
to take possession of Melbourne Royal for
travel-talking purposes on Saturday, when
“The Boy” has moved to its new home.
Wirths’ Circus in former years has talked
of moving on from an exhausted Melbourne
when the last echo of Cup Week has died
away, but this year the Greatest Show on
Earth flourishes as never before, and the
departure of the racing season leaves the
Circus wondering whether it ought ever to
go away any more.
A Melbourne women’s show :
The annual show of the Women’s Art Club at
Melbourne Athenaeum contains nothing startling, but
“Shore Acres,” at
Melbourne King's.
Fred Cambourne as
the Captain.
there is some sound
work by Marion
Jones, May Butler
George and one or two
others. Marion' is re-
presented by a head of
W. M. Hughes, rather
sallow in color and
amiable of feature, but
otherwise pi esenting a
capital likeness. Miss
Jones’s head of an
Anzac is strong in
drawing, but her
pastels haven’t all the
usu a 1 dash and
piquancy. May Butler
George again hangs
her vigorous drawing
of Kitchener and deli-
ca t e portraits o n
ivory, but some other
exhibitors’ attempts at
portraiture are weak
and immature. Miss
It. Allan’s profile of a
lady in black (No. 78)
is not so bad, but
“Marjorie” and “Wait-
ing” by Miss D. Stone, the couple of
head studies by Miss Stephanie Taylor and
Miss B. Cade’s figure study put a strain
on a critic’s forbearance. In landscape Miss L. White
scores most marks for her bracket of three, whereof
“Cloudy Morning” is the most likeable. Miss G.
Hylton-Bravo’s style is slick and lively, but in
“Towards Evening” veracity is sacrificed to an
uneducated impressionism ; and Miss Holgate’s “Lost”
is a well-intentioned landscape marred by the struggle
to tell a story. There is the usual abundance of
vegetation painted by awkward hands, but Mrs. E.
Bates’s “Camellias” and a couple of other flower
studies deserve a small bouquet.
& *
The homicidal career of William Farnum
gets another advertisement in “The Last of
the Duanes” at Hoyt’s, in Melbourne, this
week. William overworks his trigger finger
in settling a belated feud and rescuing a
divinity from an outlaw’s lair. Harry
Carey, in “Riders of Vengeance” on the same
programme, is- given strong cause for thin-
ning down the criminal population. He starts
out with, the most violent intentions, then
meets the usual girl, who commits him to a
go-slow policy. The Majestic’s star for the
week is Clara Kimball Young, who spies
out the future in a handsome film-version of
“The Eyes of Youth.” The follow-on is
Meredith Nicholson’s “The House of a Thou-
sand Candles” under the inadequate title of
“Haunting Shadows.” “The Valley of
Doubt,” at the Melba, takes the sightseer into
the backwash of Canadian civilisation, where
the scarcity of female causes a rush on the
commodity.
Concerts and pictures are the chief Adel-
aide shows for the moment, though Wilkie
in a Shakspeare season is promised at the
Royal. At West’s are “My Lady’s Garter”
and a Blue Pearl, both dealing with luxury,
and more or less dishonest attempts to get it.
Wondergraph has a drama built round Hou-
dini, and the Pav. shows H. A. Jones’s old
“Judah,” Americanised as “The Cheater” for
May Allison. Eslick of the dance-palace talks
of moving to Glenelg for the summer months.
The South Aus. orchestra has given its
fourth concert, a big Town Hall affair, with
W. R. Cade conducting, Sylvia Whitington
as leader, and Myrtle Ingham vocalist, the
programme being popular but instructive —
Schubert, “Peer Gynt,” Litolff and so on.
From a critic in Adelaide:—
Van Raalte’s reputation as an etcher is gradually
spreading eastward from Westralia, where he settled
for the good of his health shortly' before the war.
Despite his Dutch name he was born in England and
was hung in the Royal Academy at 21: he is close
on 40 now. His present exhibition in F. W. Preece’s
gallery here shows the power of the man in more
diversified form than the dingoes and the Forrest
portrait, already well known. The Westralian
timber country provides most of his subjects. The
catalogue talks of the influence of Sime and Dicksee,
but Dore might rather have been his master in the
matter of sombre forests with background of a gloom
and darkness unaccounted for. Versatility comes in
with architectural detail, a few Dutch subjects, and a
powerful nude, fleshy but symbolical. Drypoint and
etching on zinc alike seem to come easy to him. Some
of his plates are exhausted, and orders for the others
are numerous.


Diamond and
Platinum Twist
Rin", with
shoulders of
choicest Brilliants,
£6O.
Emerald Octagon
Ring, Platinum and
finest Brilliants,
attractive design,
£75.
Pearl and Diamond Brooch,
£75.
Very exquisite
Emerald Ring,
with double row of
choicest Brilliants,
£lOO.
Choice Platinum
and Three-stone
Diamond Ring,
especially selected
Gems,
£lOO.
15ct. Gold Watch, on 15et. Gold Expanding Bracelet, Fine Movement,
£l5.
(Very large selection.)
The Firm’s Selections are always Replete with the
Newest and Choicest Designs in Finest Quality and
Workmanship.
Pearl Necklaces (ranging from £2O to £2000), Diamond
and Gem Rings, Gem Jewellery, Platinum and Gold
Expanding Bracelet Watches, Ivory Ware, Tortoiseshell
Ware, Enamel, Gold and Silver, Cutlery, Fine China,
Clocks, Fitted Travelling Cases, Presentation Ware, etc.
Srummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
&t, c
Coe*
?Tp
Sow
At
T?
Housa*. "«
iSsfe;
Tef
SYDKES
t*V,
t*
>°ui)
yjjM-
the
or r
Mi
r Oe<j
vvr e
M*
Hil}
V
ua'hoSS
aw
SIT
HELP o' GertetM
TpI U+s3
washtnfe
ED
Y HfcLr c «•■
Croydon. TcJ-*
goorJ
3 In fa
Clebn
CBNegl
Srfnt
**^3^3
-■—
fias
sri
Sti
A
COA4PET£*<T
Centra]
w-TaSk,
i-r
Tet.
*<*th
782.
Iftfc
V
'O
psi
EE
"P^OOK
~~i I >
ff&B
1
k V Or
lo * oti
AMMprtfn,
rVKro
l\WrC —* J1 ‘
a i
.**• »o
ot>^'
•PURE F°
'ST
52555
a
&
V
55
Think of the convenience of having a shelf full
of appetising meat delicacies—always ready to
serve at a moment’s notice, without preparation
or cooking.
That is the service offered to every woman by
the Rex Pure Foods.
In REX CAMP PIE you have the most
appetising' and wholesome Summer delicacy it
is possible to imagine. Serve it for lunch or
dinner, with any salad. Everyone will enjoy it.
Get a supply of Rex Pure Foods from your grocer
and save work and worry, time and money.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of Rex Pure Food Products
Curers of Rex Hams and Bacon
J393J
BUCKLEY’S
(THE SHRINE OF FASHION)
Beautiful and Distinctive Styles
in Voile Blouses for Summer.
In Buckley-made Blouses you will find true elegance temptingly
priced to suit a frugal purse.
Fine-quality material, charming designs and faultless workmanship
all play their part in the perfection.
LZl4l—Smart Shirt Blouse, in fine Ivory Voile, showing rever
collar, which may be worn high; fronts finely tucked, pocket
and collar hand-embroidered in self colors.
Price 16/11
LZI42 —Dressy Blouse, in Ninon Voile, buttoning
at back, round neck, finished with hand-veining.
The front and back of Blouse are finely embroi-
dered and veined in self color, smart short sleeve.
Price 25/-
LZI43 —Exclusive Blouse, in
Ninon Voile, showing smart
frill inlet with fine imitation
hand-crochet, edged
lace to match, crochet
buttons and button-
holes finish the front.
Price 25/6
?'4
/y
cPi
LZI4?
£142
am
fr.
L 7.144
LZI4S "
48. ,0
LZI44 —Dainty Blouse, in Fine Voile,
showing square collar, back and front
trimmed with fine Val. insertion, insertion
trimming on Blouse front and cuffs.
Price 14/11
LZI45 —This Dressy Blouse is in fine
Ninon Voile. The full frills are inlet
with medallions of hand-embroiderv and
edged with fine crochet lace, long or short
sleeves with turn-back cuff.
Price 18/11
WE
PAY
CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OFFICE,
RAILWAY STATION OR
PORT IN AUSTRALIA.
BUCKLEY’S
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.,
BOURKEST.,
MELBOURNE
I
1
4
Vv
i —l
>3
Mand^
/"CONTRACTORS—BuiIders —Shire and County
Councils favour this 2 ton type of Lorry. The
side tipping is a feature of great convenience enabl-
ing the Lorry to be driven straight into confined
spaces and the load tipped exactly where required.
wMm.
m
4>
BSv' _A
3*
Take this Tip. Let it
he a Ley land’
LEYLAND LOGIC
Leyland Tip Lorries are remark-
able not only for the service they
give but /or the variety of types
which are offeied. Steam or
Petrol driven —Rear or Side Tip —
Hand or Hydraulic tipping Me-
chanism—S'poke or Disc Wheels—
and to pull loads of varying
weights up to 5 tons. The
Chassis is Leyland standard in
every case and built to pull extra
loads on trailers.
IMMEDIATE DELIVER:
FROM STOCK
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD.,
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Pty., Ltd., High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.


The Mountain did not come to Mahomet, so Mahomet went to the Mountain!
TlThe glamor of a metropolitan season,
and then obscurity.
fThis is not the Alpha or Omega of
UNION THEATRE ATTRACTIONS.
l[They know no geographical limitations
and their message of good cheer is suit-
able for all from Sydney to Perth, from
the Leeuwin to the Line.
IfFrom the capital cities of the Common-
wealth this splendidly-keyed-up organisa-
tion is working to the people’s will by
giving every town, every suburb, every
hamlet an opportunity of seeing UNION
ATTRACTIONS presented in the
UNION THEATRE WAY.
coming your way—these up-to-
the-minute motion-picture theatre attrac-
tions, and when they hang out the sign
“A UNION PICTURE THEATRE'’
you’ll have your entertainment guaran-
teed.
UNION THEATRES ALL-AUSTRALIAN CIRCUIT.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Tasmania, and throughout the Commonwealth.
Managing- Directors: EDWIN .GEACH, W. A. GIBSON, STUART F. DOYLE.
a
a k
mw—BnM
ss
m
I
iVX \
mm
ass
15L3L
mi'
’iini!
"m
$
«y
ItaHpwTi
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
From The Bulletin’s old-established Mel-
bourne critic: —•
Florence Young made her first appearance 30 years
ago, at Melbourne Opera House, under a management
that was professedly the MacMahons, but was really
George Musgrove and Nellie Stewart. Musgrove was
breaking away from his partners, Williamson and
Garner, and this opposition venture started with
“Paul Jones.” “Boccaccio,” “Chilperic” and
“Madame Angot” came later. It was in “Boccaccio”
that Florence Young got her show; but before the
opera was revived by Musgrove the young novice
with the big voice had passed over to Williamson
and Garner at the Princess’s, and Florence Esdaile
took her place at the Opera House. Miss Young’s
recommendations at that time were a strong, clear,
mezzo-soprano voice, a straight, slim figure, a fine
pair of eyes and a pleasing smile. She couldn’t act,
nor was she graceful, but her voice—it ought to
have been captured at once for the world’s market
and trained for oratorio! It never was born for
opera-—like the voice of Strella Wilson-, who has, a
general resemblance to the old favorite who died last
week —but it was made to adapt itself to all sorts
of comic-opera parts, from the high soprano of
“HANDS ACROSS THE SEA,” AT
SYDNEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
John Kirby as a Franco-Cockney waiter, and
Henri Dore as Hiram Hickory.
Dorothy to the contralto of Katisha in “The Mikado.”
Under the Williamson management Florence Young
was the original Casilda in the first Australian pro-
duction of “The Gondoliers” ; also she was the girl
in “The Old Guard” whose top note used to be
caught and tossed back to her by Billy Elton. And
she was in “The Merry Monarch” when George Lauri
was introduced to Australia as heir-apparent to
Elton, who played the name part in that unprosper-
ous production.
In the early ’nineties Florence got a lot of comic-
opera experience with the Firm, which had now
become Williamson and Musgrove again, without
the Garner. She was the original Corisande in “Ma
Mie Rosette,” Yvonne in “Paul Jones” (in later
years she took the name part in revivals of the same
opera) and lots of other things. The first striking
evidence she displayed of a diminution of angularity
in her style was when she wore tights as Prince
Eucalyptus in “Djin-Djin.” She was beginning to
turn her figure to better stage account, and her voice,
not too well trained, was standing wear and tear
wonderfully. She was pantomime boy again in
“Matsa” the following Christmas, and after that
came a long silence, during which the Williamson
productions of “The Geisha” and “Floradora” knew
her not; she was in England and elsewhere for some
five years.
It was in “San Toy,” in 1902, that she made
her reappearance as a mainstay of J.C.W. opera, with
an improved voice-production: Thus began her long
series of leading performances in musical comedy,
varied by comic opera, <n which she is best remem-
bered by the modern world of Australian theatre-
goers. The people who saw Miss Young, the Mel-
bourne jeweller’s daughter, when she was a raw be-
ginner, are pretty considerably dead by this time;
but she will be long talked pf as Madame Sans Gene,
or . even the Runaway Girl, or the portly dame in
“The Pink Lady,” who complained that Dondidiet
had kissed her on the cheek —.yes, he did ! For her
smiling vitality, her ringing voice,. clear enunciation
and powers of “uplift” in a show that wanted her
force of personality to give it human interest, Flor-
ence Young will be very gratefully remembered.
Even though her hard-worked voice was beginning
to go she was a woman of importance to the end—
a personage whom the Australian stage could ill
spare.
“Fax” : The exceeding usefulness of Flor-
ence Young can be seen in the range she
played. In two famous comic operas, “Paul
Jones” and “The Merry Widow,” she
appeared at one time or other in both the
name-role and the woman part of next
importance, the former in one case requiring
her to wear knee : breeches and swank with
a manly stride. She was the jolly, middle-
aged Madame Sans Gene in “The Duchess
of Dantzig,” and years later she was the
“Cinema Girl” in musical comedy. At the
outset of lier engagement with Williamson
there was a pantomime job for her: in
“Aladdin” at Melbourne Royal 30 years ago
this Christmas she played Pekoe, a boy,
whilst Jennie Lee, Teddy Royce, Harry
Shine, George Walton and Violet Varley
figured in the foreground.
“Old Pot”: Florence Young had her
regrets that she had keen driven to use her
voice in musical comedy and comic opera.
Marchesi pronounced it a dramatic soprano,
and when the student sang at Madame’s
recital in Paris the critics said she was the
only one who had the equipment for a stage
career. Florrie chuckled : they weren’t aware
of her previous experience in Australia. It
was the Melbourne land boom which, finan-
cially ruining her dad, drove her on to the
stage 30 years ago. She had madd only one
previous public appearance—with the Mel-
bourne Liedertafel —when she joined Mus-
grove’s Comic Opera Co. And eight years
later it was under Muzzy’s management that
she opened in London at the Shaftesbury.
Next she turned to S’Africa, whither she
went as prima donna for Lockwood and
Leville. “La Poupee” was the star attrac-
tion. Florrie was the doll. After a tour
of the English provinces, and with some
money in her pocket, the call for better things
came, and she put herself under Marchesi
in Paris. A tempting offer to return to her
native land arrived at the wrong moment
and knocked all idea of grand opera out of
her head, and though it frequently re-entered
the idea never fructified.
“Row A.” : For 30 years Florence Young
had enjoyed a remarkable popularity with
Australian audiences, and in her own way
she was well liked, too, by all ranks in the
profession. Not as, say, Nellie Stewart has
always been liked. Nellie is the embodiment
of gentle femininity. Florrie Young had
the more virile Melba touch. But like many
women of strong character she was a
thoroughly good sort, devoid of professional
jealousy and always ready to help anyone in
trouble. Her colleagues knew this and took
advantage of it when she achieved affluence,
as by hard work and economy she managed
•to do before she was 40. Despite her own
success she struggled hard to keep a favorite
younger sister from going on the stage. Her
private opinion of it as a profession for a
girl was not widely different from that ex-
pressed by one of the Melbourne Judges a few
days ago. She had plenty of humor, and no
one laughed more genially than she did at some
of the roles that she was cast for in her later
years. The abiding admiration which she
aroused in a big section was a tribute neither
to her looks nor to a voice which had
hardened .considerably with age, but to a most
vivid and cheery personality.
“0.K.”: Ploward Vernon seems to have
left no particular mark on Australian memory
save in connection with the Firm’s produc-
tions of Gilbert and Sullivan. But apart
from his own managerial treatments of “Rip
Van Winkle” and other works he took a
hand in a score of successful J.C.W. shows
outside the G. and S. series. Some of the
forgotten operas—“ Pepita.” “Erminie,”
“Billee Taylor,” “Olivette,” “Vicar of Bray,”
“Marjorie,” “La Cigale,” etc. —were big
events in their day, and Vernon counted for
a good deal in all of them. He was the
one-armed, one-eyed warrior whom Florence
Young used to occasionally smile upon in
“Ma Mie Rosette.” But he never did much
pantomime work for J.C.W. Probably his
last panto engagement with the Firm was
when he played the old baronial parent of
the heroine in “Cinderella” as long ago as
1889, whereas his G. and S. services lasted
from the earliest days of “Patience” and
“The Pirates” to the first and only produc-
tions of “His Excellency.”
" J.W.”: J. D. O’Hara asserts that no
actor has been hanged for murder. Possibly
not; but John Wilkes Booth, who murdered
Abraham Lincoln, would have been hanged
if he hadn’t been shot in a barn. So also
would Richard Archer Prince, who murdered
William Terriss, if the jury hadn’t taken a
merciful view of the case. Prince, by the way,
is still an inmate of the Broadmoor Asylum.
“C. Ockney” : Lady Monekton, an amateur-
professional or professional-amateur who
SATISFYING THE PUBLIC DEMAND.
VANYK: “ Landscape doesn't seem to go at
all. People want -figure-stuff these
days.”
THEATRICAL MAN : “Just what I find, old
man. That's why I always give 'em
plenty of chorus girls.”
w T as much to the fore on London stages 30
years or so ago, died recently in England.
Her work was practically confined to the
ultra-West-End houses, such as the Haymar-
ket and St. James’s, where “distinguished
amateurs” were ever welcome in those days.
She was the original Mrs. Seabrooke in Had-
don Chambers’s “Captain Swift” at the for-
mer theatre, and pleased the Australian
author so much that later, when George
Alexander accepted his next piece, “The
Idler,” for the latter house, he insisted on
her being cast for Mrs. Cross. Her follow-
ing of those days did not do the astute
Chambers any harm. Lionel Monekton, the
composer of “The Country Girl” and
numberless other light musical pieces, is her
son. /
“Floater” : Allan Wilkie’s Falstaff reminds
some Melbourne people of their late Premier,
Tummus Bent, and others of the knight put
up in London years ago by Beerbohm Tree.
Tree’s Falstaff, instead of being padded, was
inflated, bladders being strapped to his body
and limbs. Irreverent critics were very glee-
ful at Tree’s expense. One cruelly remarked
that with a little more gas Beerbohm would
soar higher in his profession than he had ever
done before. And I think it was his wicked
half-brother, Max Beerbohm, who said: “It
is terrible to think that such a monstrous
theatrical fiction could be exploded by a pin.”
Bert Bailey is going to take “On Our
Selection” for a run through the English
“provinces.”
“E.F.”: Frank Cochrane, a small, keen-
eyed fellow' who assisted Asche in his “Chu
Chin Chow” production, has come to stage
the piece for Mclntosh. He played the part
of the Cobbler in the original “Chu Chin
Chow,” and will do it here for a few weeks
before returning to London to help the boss
with his new show. Cochrane, who rose from
the chorus, can’t say too much for the sing-
ing voices of the Australian girls. _ their
physical smartness and alert intelligence.
But they have one fault, he sadly admits.
Their diction is bad—-and “the worst of it
is they' like it.” They persist in thinking
that “blew” sounds more effective than
“blue.” But Cochrane ought to have heard
the Australian chorus-girl of 30 years ago, or
even more recently. She is now in a fair
way to be the sweetest of English-speaking
creatures. Already she is a more pleasing
thing to listen to than the average ’Murkan
girl, Heaven knows!
The old-established open-air pitch behind
the Jubilee Exhibition in Adelaide —generally
known as The Dandies’, from a tradition left
by Dampier—-is being taken in hand seri-
ously by the J.C.W. co. this summer. The
firm has given a free hand to local-manager
Herbert Myers, and he has arranged a large
stage with scenery and elaborate effects
instead of the usual curtains and chairs.
George Welch will be producer and chief
comedian, with Harry Graham, Grace
Lavers and others to sing, and Tom Preston
and Lucy Sullivan to dance.
“Snell”: When Bill Holloway was doing
turgid melodrama at Melbourne Royal he
figured as the lustly hero in a quaint dra-
matic hotch-potch, a stirring scene being that
in which he rushed on
to preserve the hero-
ine from the unwel-
come attentions of a
subordinate villain,
carrying in his hand
a stout walking-stick,
with which he gave
the insulting hound a
very realistic hiding.
This was all right as
long as he used a
“property” stick
stuffed for the occa-
sion, but more than
once he got it mixed
with the actual stick
the hero sported in
earlier scenes. Came
a night when the hero
bounded In to the
rescue as usual, only
to find the cad back-
ing down, and holding
off. “Cheese it!
Cheese it, Mr. ’Olio-
way !” the villain
whispered for all to
h e a r—“that’s the
wrong stick
you’ve got.” It was,
as a. matter of fact.
A moment Holloway
stood nonplussed;
then he roared “Any
stick will serve to
beat a dog!” and
rushed the bad man,
who fled, followed by
the intrepid hero, and the audience had the
satisfaction of hearing the yells of the mis-
creant.
“Norbell” : At ruling prices, what exactly
does “house full” amount to in cash at, say,
Sydney Majesty’s? Nellie Stewart’s
“Radium” matinee of “Sweet Nell” at the
Sydney Royal on September 5, 1910, realised
£1400; but fancy prices were paid all over
the house. In 1883 J. C. Williamson and
Maggie Moore revived “Struck Oil” at Mel-
bourne Royal, the prices being 55., 35., 25..
and Is. Early doors, preferential booking,
threepenny “hygienic” programmes, and other
devices of the Devil hadn’t been invented.
The Firm announced that “the receipts were
unprecedented in the dramatic annals of Mel-
bourne,” and published this statement of
seven nights’ takings :
Saturday . . £3OB 10 0
Monday . . 262 12 0
Tuesday . . 226 16 6
Wednesday . . 247 4 6
Thursday .. 215 3 0
Friday . . 205 6 0
Saturday .. 271 14 0
Total . . £1737 6 0
At Melbourne Majesty’s, at the same prices,
Nance O’Neil had a capacity house for her
opening in “Magda” on June 2, 1900. The
management published the account of takings
and made the total £398 14s.
One of the conductors in grand opera used
to make a tremendous show of reluctance
when invited to respond to a call, and it took
three or four members of the company to
drag him on. The other Dago musicians
grew a little weary of this, and one night,
when the audience was whooping, signor was
left to go on unaided and without visible
compulsion. He waited on the management
after the show in great indignation. “Vy I
no get ze push on?” he demanded. “Vy iss
nopotty drag me on? I tell to you if I am
not drag on I not go on at all.” After that
signor was dragged on. But he paid two
members of the co. to do it.
Eille Norwood, well known in Australia
30 years ago as actor and author, at latest
advices from London was prominent in two
ways at once. He was producer, at the
Queen’s, of “A Pair of Sixes,” the American
farce already familiar here, in which two
business partners play a poker-hand to settle
which of them shall obey the other’s orders.
And he was on the screen as hero of a
film-drama by Sabatini. As a “Tavern
Knight,” otherwise a dissolute but gallant
cavalier, Norwood, got full scope for the
fencing skill he is so proud of.
A SILENT TOAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A silent toast we stand to drink ;
The curtain’s down, the last song sung.
With misted eyes and hearts that sink
We lift our glasses—Florence Young!
The long applause dies slowly down ;
Lights fade o’er withered fiowers we flung.
She wore youth’s laughter as a crown,
Our queen of gladness—Florence Young!
The nights of merriment are spent,
The bier is draped, the low bell rung ;
Bright sweetheart of a continent,
We shall remember —Florence Young !
N.s.w.
D. M. W.


/
■
R
■
qP\
c
a
&
H
■-■
m
■
bljlliMli!
»5331
ji»LII|igillliiii|llll!!lllHI)!Il
X
- -
w?
S Eff*
/aka Sal Y
> for H
A regular glass of Sal Hepatica first thing in the morning is the easy, pleasant way
to perfect health Just a spoonful of this renowned Saline preparation makes a bub
blmg drink that is splendid to take.
Sal Hepatica should not be confused with Fruit Salines or Salts Sal Hepatica pro-
vides a sparkling, artificial mineral water, which possesses laxative and tonic properties
similar to the well-known natural mineral waters of Europe It cools the blood and
keeps the system free of irritating matter, which, if neglected, soon produces sickness.
Sal Hepatica has changed all conceptions of medicine-taking, especially where
children are concerned It is a pleasant and effective eliminant in all symp-
toms of stomach and liver disorder The medical profession throughout the
world prescribe Sal Hepatica widely as a safe, effective remedy for Bilious-
ness. Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, and other troubles arising out of
a disordered system. In the treatment of Rheumatism and Gout, bal He-
patica gives wonderful results.
Sal Hepatica is not a new-fangled medicine. It has been a family remedy m
millions of homes for a generation. It will pay you to get Sal Hepatica,
which assures continuous health for all the family.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES EVERYWHERE, PRICE 2/• & 4A
If you hare difficulty in obtaining Sal Hepatica it 'will be sent post free for the same price by
BRISTOL-MYERS CO. 49 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
ica every morruna
and "Beauty; d
Cjßteascrixt to t:cc£o
SAL HEPATICA


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Wett Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder -Soap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Helmets Sent Post
Free Everywhere
These Full-of-Comfort, Tropical
HELMETS
will take the temper
out of temperature
THERE'S something about the fit and “feel” of
Pikk Brothers’ Helmets that make them the
favourite among men—of every age and occupation
who enjoy physical comfort and freedom.
They have character 1 They are inexpensive !
THE “BENGAL” HELMET
B. 47—Made of Real Indian Pith, covered
with Grey Wool Felt, finished with Grey
Puggaree (as illustrated)
25/-
THE “GENERAL GORDON ”
B. 48 —A Hand-made White Helmet, cork lined, well
ventilated, fitted with chin strap. Brim
3&n. wide. Xbe ordinary style of Helmet
21/-
PIKE BROTHERS
BRISBANE limited
TOWNSVILLE
TOOWOOMBA
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Oweenee, who used to be a fair suburban
performer, and Golden Slipper, who was never any-
thing but a failure, were each the mothers of two
of Saturday’s winners. At Rosehill Golden Bronze
and Golden ’Cello helped to wipe off some of the
heavy wad paid by the Belltrees studmasters for
Golden Slipper. At the Q.T.C. meeting Ercanil
and the two-vear-ohl Owissa improved the ex-
Sydney mare’s stud record. At this, meeting Molly’s
Robe showed a surprising reversal of form on her
Spring Stakes and Chesterfield Plate running, and
beat the unlucky Sydney Damsel a head in the
King’s Plate. On the same' day the Derby winner
Seremist and the thing Syceonelle ran any-old-how
in the Sandgate Handicap. This event was won
by Fairy Bob, with the Bananaland Cup winner,
Ivaramu, out of a place, but just starting to catch
up.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Time that the V.R.C. seriously
thought about putting its Cup meeting back into the
middle of November. Since the long-ago days when
Melbourne Cup was fixed for the first Tuesday in
November the A.J.C. Spring meeting has been
brought forward from Sep-
tember to October and
the Flemington Agricul-
tural Show has been set a
little later in the year
with the idea of getting
better weather for it. If
the V.R.C. doesn’t follow
suit it isn’t because better
weather isn’t, as a rule,
wanted for the Cup. This
year it was bright enough
except on Oaks Day, but
not a little bit summery.
The fact is, the climate of
Melbourne (and perhaps
of other cities in other
States) has changed for the
chillier since the Cup date
was chosen, and the
annual racing programme
for both the V.R.C. and
V.A.T.C. should be read-
justed to suit the altered
conditions. Two genera-
tions back people used to
expect “a fine warm day”
for the Cup holiday, but
the modern young man
can’t remember a first
Tuesday in November
which was not either cool
and dry at the best, or
wet and chilly at the
worst.
LESLIE STUART,
Victorian horse-owner
and good sport.
Melbourne’s long-drawn-out raeing carni-
val had its last kick on Saturday at Caulfield, where
two of three first favorites that won started at 7 to 1.
Elmira the 7 to 1 winner of the two-year-old race,
divided favoritism with Sefton, but Accrington, who
captured the Armadale Cup (worth £lOOO to the
winner), was a little more fancied than about nine
others in a well-backed field. Seeing that Accring-
ton carried Bst. 41b. his popularity with punters
seemed to call for explanation in view of excuses
made for him after running a bad race in the Coongy
Handicap at Caulfield a few Wednesdays ago. In
the Coongy Handicap the gelding, with about Bst.
71b. aboard, was backed down to a short price, but
a newspaper oracle next day remarked that Accring-
ton never had run respectably when burdened with a
respectable weight, and might still be expected to
do better in the Caulfield Cup with only 7st. 21b. up.
This sounded a very fair apology for Accrington’s bad
defeat when he, three days later, ran second to
Eurythmic in the Caulfield Cup. Also it appeared
to explain some of his further defeats in minor
handicaps after he had run disappointingly in
Melbourne Cup. But this Armadale Cup performance
knocks all the stuffing out of the old argument. The
distance was a furlong further than the Coongy
Handicap, the weight was Bst. 41b., the time was
2min. 324 sec.—only 4sec. slower than the Caulfield
record for the distance —and the English gelding
won brilliantly by four lengths. Evidently he is not
so much a non-weight-carrier as a horse of moods,
like old Coronatus, the hurdle-racer, these times.
Coronatus has run so rottenly on many occasions
that he is again down among the nine-stoners —he
who used to be up among the 12-stoners in moderate
company. Last Saturday the veteran offered a clear
suggestion of his old self by taking the lead over
the last hurdle and winning handsomely. Price, 10
to one in a field of six.
♦ * * #
The Pendil gelding Dependence, though
rising eight, can still pay his way. Most of the
opposition being in Melbourne, he got past the
post four lengths in front of Minchinbury in the
Summer Handicap at the S.A. Tatt.’s meeting on
Saturday, with the Comedy King horse Stageboy
in the other place. The runner-up won one race
at two years, and two more at three years.
On the last day of the Canterbury (MX.)
Jockey Club’s meeting the populace had the unex-
pected pleasure of seeing Gloaming sprint over
four furlongs two lengths ahead of Rational in the
Electric Plate. The Absurd gelding won the Juven-
ile Stakes at Wellington just previously and jour-
neyed down not expecting such opposition. In the
Stead Memorial Cup Surveyor came to light and
beat the Derby-winner, Duo, by two lengths, with
the imported sprinter Arrowsmith—who found the
mile and a quarter much too long-—in third place.
* * * *
The English cricketers will go away with
lively recollections of barrackers’ sarcasm if they
don't improve their funereal batting. The absurd
Way that tried professionals like Hobbs and Hearne
poked carefully at loose, hittable stuff in Melbourne
gave the bowling an importance it didn’t deserve.
As a matter of fact, no bowler troubled the Eng-
lishmen, who had easily achieved a position in
which they could have safely given the crowd manv
more runs for their money. But Hobbs and Hearne
—and in a lesser degree Russell—mostly pushed
the score up with a series of cautious singles, play-'
ing, of course, the strict orthodox cricket that gen-
erally causes an inexplicable glow in the pundits
of the game. This writer waited nearly an hour,
and finding Hobbs and Hearne still postponing the
deviltry with which they were alleged to wield the
timber m England, he faded home. On the way-
out through the turnstiles he was much affected by
another embittered spectator asking a gate official:
“I say, my man, when does play begin?” Monday
floods of rain; and that ended the visitors’
chances of giving the home team a sensational
licking.
A. W. Lampard, who came to Vic.’s rescue
with 111 v. England last week and played the alleged
difficult bowling- with ease, is of the younger gener-
ation, with test-match possibilities.' He was in the
A.I.F. XI last year, and rattled up 821 runs, aver-
agmg 26.05 in first-class matches; also he knocked
over 69 wickets averaging 23.57.
* * * *
Only a great sixth-wicket effort by A. W.
Lampard (111) and A. E. Liddicutt (56) saved
Victoria from a worse fate than befel South Aus.
against the English XL Five wickets were down for
77 when they began to hold the fort, and with the help
of the tailenders the total reached 274. It was a batting
iailure of a strong-on-paper XI. Woolley (3 for 29)
i I’arkin (4 for 58) made the wreckage. The
Englishmen’s effort up to Saturday was two for 343
—Hobbs (131), J. W. Hearne (82 not out), Hen-
dien (/7 not out), Russell (49). Nine bowlers were
used in the attack; but fast-bowler McDonald and
Ryder alone got a wicket, each costing 57 runs. Rain
then went into bat and the match was swamped.
* * * *
South Aus. bowlers are a weak lot, so the
Cticket Association is looking despairingly towards
the country in search of a trundler. A. Willington,
of Mxlang, is promising.- Playing against Calling-
ton, he took nine wickets for three runs. The
bowler had two chances dropped, and two of the
*:hree runs were made off the chances. The tenth
batsman was run out.
The selectors for the N.S.W. team v.
England decided on Friday that they had to choose
for eleventh man between Tozer and Bardsley. They
had already caused dissent by substituting Oldfield
for Carter behind the sticks. If they had taken in
the big Gordon crack, another ex-A.I.F. man it
might have appeared that Collins was dominating’ the
situation. So they picked Bardsley-, whose future,
like that of Ransford, lies well behind him. The
absurdity of the position is that in the opinion of
nine students of the game out of 10 the doctor has
good claims to be considered for the Test XL
Sydney Grammar’s defeat of Scots’ in the
final round of G.P.S. cricket on Saturday, bv 210
runs, decided the premiership. It is the big school’s
19th win. The outstanding efforts of the round were
Newman’s (Newington) 123, and Salmon’s (C.E.G.S.)
106.
* * * *
In Sydney grade cricket on Saturday, the
wickets being good and the weather propitious, no
prominent player failed to achieve something. The
brilliant and consistent Tozer topped the list with
131. and another Gordon rep.. Macartney, put to-
gether a masterful 80. Also J. M. Taylor got 83
by forceful play. Yet the Paddington bowling was
fairly strong on paper, with E. Trenerry, Norman and
Winning available. The Waverley colt Ives showed
another side to his character by getting six of the
’Varsity team for 33, all clean bowled. Hendrv, the
usual mainstay, and Kippax batted well. Kelieway
started a procession among the strong Wests’ batting
side —five bowled and one caught behind for 35.
C. Cumberland with the exception of Cranney, un-
orthodox but reliable, who got 61 and 96 by sterling
play, gave up the ghost against Middle Harbor. Rov
Mmnett, for the Village club, got 8 wickets for 56
and bowled with the length but not the pace of
yore. Mailey showed fair form in taking 4 for 91
though he was very erratic in C.C.’s second knock!
Collins, m getting 93 for Sydney against Petersham
was impartial all round the wicket. Brown and
Rowe scored 66 and 64 respectively, the latter play-
ing most spiritedly. Given an earlier chance he
should have reached three figures. Pete’s fielding
was mediocre. Norths unexpectedly downed Balmain
Ihe River Rats were at their worst. Folkard “did
his bit” to the extent of 52, but the only other man
to emulate him was Ratcliffe (another first-class
keeper, by the way), who banged up 47. King
Hogue and Punch divided the wickets. Punch who
is North Sydney these days, bowls a wrong’ ’ U n,
thinly disguised, and got 98 without taking uncalled-
for risks.
* * * *
Governor Weigall gave the English XI
a scratch morning game at St. Peter’s College before
they left Adelaide. His Ex. brought himself
(stumped for 7) and two aides and private sec. Legh
winser, who is a first-class wicket-keeper and may
represent S. Aus. in the remaining matches of the
season. Also Clem Hill was induced to handle a
bat once more ; but
he is out of prac-
tice, and was
caught for 3. Most
of the players re-
tired after making
double figures, and
the College boys
who played did as
well as any. The
most important
thing about the
game was that fast-
bowler Hitch, just
arrived from Lon-
don a boat behind
the rest, split a
'finger, and will be
out of the field for
some weeks.
Dr. CLAUD
TOZER, of
Gordon 4
(N.S.W.).
over whose non-
inclusion in the
N.B.W. cricket -
team V. Eng-
land the
experts are
getting excited.
Jerry Sullivan, wore his emerald-green
pants to victory at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
Andre Dupre was his opponent, and he is the
hist ot the French invaders to collect the loser’s
end to date. There is a remarkable difference
between the first Gallic team that visited Australia
and the present one, and nowhere is it more con-
spicuous than in the qualities of nerve and rugged-
ness. These lads never know when they are
licked: the other lot suffered from the megrims or
the vapors or something, and frequently burst into
tears and left the ring- before the affray had properly
started. Though Dupre lacks the finished art of
some of his predecessors, and notably Criqui, yet in
gameness none of them is his master. He took a
terrific hiding from Sullivan, who was at the top of
his condition and full of confidence. In fact, Jerry
won every round. The loser got a great reception
from the crowd, and Sullivan tried hard to con-
gratulate him on his showing. Unfortunately the
official interpreter was busy removing the towels and
buckets at the time.
Though Norman Brookes forfeited his
two singles engagements in the annual tennis match
between Vic. and N. S. Wales in Melbourne last
week, the Vies, were well ahead at the end of the
argument. The Ma Staters, weakened bv the
absence of Anderson, didn’t trouble the locals to
any extent, though Horrie Rice celebrated his 50th
appearance in inter-State battles bv putting up a
powerful defence against Gerald Patterson. “Pat’s”
service, leaping sensationally under its load of top-
spin, was returned by the veteran in some beautiful
side-line shots, and, using his backhand with equal
grace and dexterity, he often had the champion
thinking hard. Rice actually led by 4—l and
3—l in the first and third sets (he captured the
second by 6—3 in first-class style), and only lost
in the first by the failure of his artillery and his
weakening in the last under the intensified fire of the
Victorian. Patterson, whose backhand has become
more certain and dangerous, served out some hot
stuff during the tournament, but he still nets a
good number of his first deliveries, and does the
same with returns of service with exasperating care-
lessness at critical stages. The best man on the
courts was undoubtedly O’Hara Wood, who, barring
a hard tussle with Neil (N.S.W.), which he won
at length (6 —3, 9 —7), came through his singles
and doubles matches with remarkable ease. His
brilliant low volleying and Brookes-like finish in a
variety of shots increased his already rosy chances
of representing Australia in the Davis Cup.
Brookes occasionally showed some of his old-time
pace and prettiness in his partnership with Patterson
against Marsh and Peach and Neil and Poekley, but
he was obviously a sick man depressed by his dis-
abilities. The N. S. Wales men produced no one to
compare with Rice, the next best being the elderly
Neil, though Peach and Marsh were close up for
their excellent team work in the doubles. Victoria
easily accounted for South Aus., the most notable
event being the defeat of the Vic. lady champion,
Miss Schlesinger, by Mrs. Molesworth in a well-
fought game.
* * * *
Mercantile won the four-oared champion-
ship of Victoria on the Lower Yarra on Saturday.
Mercs., leading all the way, cut out the 21 miles
in 17min. 25 l-ssec., three lengths ahead of Banks,
with South Melbourne another length behind. A
bit of confusion in the first start brought the crews
back for another, and the delay allowed an up-
coming steamer to get ahead and worry the lighter
crews with its wash. Mercs, had the weightiest
team, but in the aggregate they were only about a
stone heavier than Footseray, which, with two 18-
stoners in the boat, crept in at the tail of the pro-
cession.
J. L. Mounsey, who stroked the Mercs, in
their first four-oar championship win on the Yarra
since 1907, is a Digger, and a D.C.M. Incidentally,
he is a nephew of A. B. Sloan, the club’s super-
oarsman of over a decade ago, when Mercs, were
licking everything in sight.
* * * . *
The ’Varsity inter-collegiate eights at
Sydney Rowing Club’s regatta on Saturday provided
a great go. St. Paul’s lasted long enough to win
by a length from Father O’Reilly’s lot at St. John’s.
The little extra push which won for the Anglicans
came from the splendid stroking of H. F. Wilson.
* * * *
C. Crackanthorp (Manly) put up the best
100yds. sprint (60 4-ssec.) in Sydney club swim-
ming on Saturday, equalling Longworth’s figures of
the previous week. Crackanthorp was Sydney’s great
schoolboy swimmer of a few years ago.
Sydney Sailing Club decided an 18-footers’
handicap last Saturday. A hard nor’-east blow,
together with an ebbing tide, gave the crews plenty
to do in the heats. Second suits were the rule.
Twelve faced the Starter for the final, with Desde-
mona first away and the two Duncans, in Mascotte
and Kismet respectively, on the mark of honor.
Sydney streaked home a winner by 13sec. Moyana
was 30sec. behind Budwick’s craft, Mississippi.
Sydney Amateur Yacht Club’s A Class
Handicap over the Manly-Shark Island course last
Saturday was annexed by O. Backhouse’s slippery
Dawn. Most of the 10 starters, barring
Triton (Don Taylor), got away well. The
punch to the Village was made under reefed gear, and
Dawn, lOmin., was the first to place the mark astern,
followed by Winji-Winji (E. J. Bayly Macarthur),
Mischief (Stan Spain), Nereid, Waitangi, Athene,
Albacore and Triton, whose jib had gone by the
board on the way down. Backhouse’s charge was
jiever headed, and finished with 45sec. to spare from
Winji-Winji, which landed home 15sec. ahead of Stan
Spain in Mischief.
* * * *
Billy Longworth is training hard for
Kahanamoku and Kealoha, and his 60 4-ss’ec. for
the hundred at Sydney on Saturday, which he accom-
plished swimming well within himself, shows that
he is still very much in the championship class,
llis feat of annexing every Australasian title from •
220yds. to a mile for three successive years has
never been equalled, and his total of Australasian vic-
tories (18) has only been equalled by Dick Cavill.
In State championships Longworth has been vic-
torious 19 times. In four successive years he won
every event from 220yds. to a mile, and he twice swept
the board clean. His health has been indifferent for
some years, and it got no better on service with
the A.I.F. In fact, his future in the water is
largely a question of getting as fit as he used to
be on land.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : The end of the English Xl’s
first completed match makes it clear that prayers for
rain will have to lie part of the team’s training
exercises. Taking the engagement very seriously,
and probably not realising how weak S. Aus. just
now is, Douglas had put the home side in on a dry-
ing wicket, and let Parkin and Woolley run through
them unchanged for 112. But the seebnd innings was
a different proposition. Pellew (64) and Andy Smith
put up 51 before a wicket fell, and for the seventh
166 was added by Arthur Richardson (111) and
Rundell (75). With Douglas, Wilson, Parkin, Wool-
ley, Howell and Hearne all bowling, the best per-
formance was Howell’s 4 for 81, and a total of 339
was put up by a side of whom only Pellew has any
reasonable chance of being seen in a test match. It
does not look well for the visitors’ chances on any
hard pitch. On the other hand, they have any quan-
tity of batting—sound, not specially enterprising,
but there to stay, and hit an occasional loose one
hard. As Australia is suspected of being much in
the position, given fine weather, every test
match ought to last a week.
* * * *
“Plain Bill” : The war hasn’t changed the
tremendous etiquette of British cricket. Strudwick,
bowling at Douglas on the Adelaide Oval (the
wicket-keeper can send in a fairish ball), hit his
captain on the leg. “I beg your pardon, Mr.
Douglas,” said the little professional humbly. “All
right, Strudwick,” replied the amateur. And then
the old mud-ball moved on.
* * * *
Although Millieme won the Williamstown
Cup by the skin of his teeth only, his success clinches
the argument as to whether this season’s three-year-
olds are up to the average. Apparently they are
not. Millieme was a moderate third-best three-
year-old last season, and in the Williamstown Cup
he gave 291 b. to the colt —-Nautical —that ran
second in the V.R.C. Derby. Nautical, with 6st.
131 b. up, finished a head and a half behind Millieme,
whereas last year the second-best colt, Richmond
Main, carried Bst. 51b. to victory.
* * * *
It was on Steeplechase Day at Flemington
that he made his appearance in the crowd under the
elms. He was a very large, very young man, with
incipient gossamer whiskers and large, obtruding,
pale-blue eyes. He had all the features of a man
familiar with the great cow industry down to Mel-
bourne without his parent's in a spirit of desperate
adventure, and now there was a wildness about him
and a wide-mouthed haste that suggested a soul
beset by devils. He fought his way in the crowd,
entirely desperate ; and presently when he was going
through a push about a place-bookie, .all wings and
feet, like a decapitated hen, one big man laid
hold of him. “Hello, sonny,” said the latter,
“where’s yer hurry?” “I can’t find him,” gasped
the boy from the big dairv. “I bin searchin’ every-
where. I made a bet with him. I won, and I
can’t find him. He’s a spieler. He must be a
spieler. Look.” He showed the betting-ticket.
“See.” He pointed to the figures heading the card.
“He’s give his number, but not the street.”
* * * *
“Fountain Pen”: Like “Sentimental
Punter” (B. 11/11/’2O) I am distressed to hear
that the books were almost broke by Poitrel’s win.
I had the agony of seeing a fellow scribe handed
10 notes and his own quid back, while the 10 bob
I had put on Eurythmic was in the bag. But I
would extend my sympathy further than “S.P.” by
suggesting to the books that they should never bet
on the last race. The number of racegoers who tell
you they were all but cleaned out, .but just recovered
or made a bit on the last race, is legion.
THE FILM FIGHTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dempsey and Georges Carpentier are to fight for
£lOO,OOO. The former gets £60,000, win or lose,
and the Frenchman £40,000, no matter what hap-
pens. We do not need to be told that it is only
film values that render these big purses possible.
The filming of the big fight is to be in the hands
of one of America’s foremost producers.”
Ho, doughty champions, prepare!
’Mid thund’rous plaudits that arouse and
Inspire the fighter, you will air
Your elegance beyond compare
In reels worth, say, two hundred thousand !
So Dempsey do not harm the gracp
And symmetry of Georges’ face.
And Carp., your scientific style,
Your subtle deftness you’ll let them see,
But please allow no touch of guile
To disarrange the pleasant smile
Of charming champion Mister Dempsey.
Remember, if inspired to thrill ’em,
You both are heroes of the “filum.”
Since, possibly, you may forget
It’s well to print these timely strictures.
The fight can’t be a swift one, .yet
Must not be dull to make us fret
When we behold it on the pictures.
Since all depends upon the screen,
Don’t fight too much —just make a scene.
The ladies fair in millions may
Behold this epoch-marking battle;
So scrap like gentlemen, I pray, \
A gory nose, an ear astray
Will gratify the common cattle;
But something sweeter, cleaner, sprueer
It takes to please the Yank producer.
VIC TORI A.
DIDO.


ENCOURAGE PHYSICAL FITNESS —!
Physical Culture is to the body what Education is to the Mind.
It animates the dormant tissues, moulds and firms the undeveloped
muscles, exercises the internal organs, stimulates the circulation,
and culminates in that most desirable of all possessions—HEALTH.
The body is the storage battery of the brain, controlling the output
of mental energy according to its own condition of power.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will get you into condition to enable you to tackle the
physical and mental work you engage in with a surplus of
energy and the efficiency that spells “success.”
The Baker exercises are based on sound scientific principles
—they are adapted to suit your special requirements as
I judge them from the particulars you send on my special
form.
Send me your name and address, with three stamps for
postage, and I will send you FREE a copy of my interesting
book, “Health and Strength from Self-Culture.”
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
Specialist in Physical Culture,
370 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
No More
Blunt
RAZORS
With the aid of a Perforated Hone
you can put a keen edge on the
dullest razor in a few minutes.
A few strokes every week or so
and the razor is kept in perfect
cutting condition.
No barber’s skill or experience is necessary.
“It’s all in the holes” —they absolutely dis-
pose of wire-edge.
The Perforated Hone
lasts a lifetime. All Hardware Merchants,
5/., or Post Free from us for 5/6.
The Perforated Hone Co,
(Dept. No. 11), 123 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE Gl NERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
AIjL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Sydney; Queensland: Australian ]Vlachinery
Co., Ltd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris, s ® arf ®* ®o, *-td.,
Adelaide: West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co.,
ir, Beed & Co., Wellington; Malay States: Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
Kruses
1 paid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
KYNOCH
All-BritisH CARTRIDGES
TRADE
MARK.
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre=War Standard.
.'.vV'
in
1
Have Your Xmas Suit
“Lincoln Stuart” Tailored.
There are Reasons!
Reasons that will forcibly sway your
preference when rou grasp the full
significance of what “Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring in your Xmas Suit will
actually mean to you.
In the first place, it means your
almost limitless choice of the
Biggest Range of
High=Grade Suitings
under one retail roof in Australia —
the exact texture to suit you. in the
weight you want, the design you
fancy, and the shade you specially
desire.
(Secondly, you have the assurance of
Tailoring of the highest order, giving
full expression to the exact cut and
style you specify, in garments guaran-
teed to retain their shapely smartness.
The Third and Conclusive Reason
is the price-range—
£6/15|- to £l2/12/-
Considering the Quality of the
Materials and Excellence of the Work-
manship, this ' moderate price-range
will undoubtedly prove the final
point by which you will decide in
favor of Lincoln Stuart Tailoring.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR POST-
FREE PATTERNS,
which include samples of our Special
SCOTCH TWEEDS, in the latest
weaves and shades; TWEEDS and
WORSTEDS from famous English and
Australian mills, and PURE MERINO
WOOL INDIGO-DYED TWILLS, defi-
nitely guaranteed against fading and
of rare and beautiful quality.
Your Xmas Suit in these highly-
commendable textures will give you
the maximum of satisfaction at abso-
lutely bedrock cost.
Lincoln Stuart & Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Striking^Value
jdttache and Suit Cases
Attache Case made of grained fibre
on steel frame with corners capped;
two nickel locks. An excellent idea
for shopping, week-end, surfing or
school use. Length, 11 ins., 12/-;
13 in., 14/6; 15 in., 16,6; 17 in., 19/6
Suit Cases, for Ladies’ or Gent.’s
use, made of reinforced, hard, vul-
canised fibre on strong frame, each
corner capped with fibre; fitted
with two nickel locks. 22 inches,
37/6 ; 24 in., 42/6 ; 26 in., 45/-
Carriape paid to the extent of 5 per
cent on Trunks and heavy goods.
Farmer’s, s ox 49 ?, q.<?.o Sydney.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week . Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels. r Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
BARE FLOORS ARE SANITARY
MAKE THEM BEAUTIFUL.
USE
mi,
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working.
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Agencies tl rovghoui the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBOLOCK
Whence come\
all that is
exclusive
A crowd of women swarmed the balconies
of the Town Hall to watch, the new Mayor
eat his inaugural dinner and hear the
speeches. One or two men were conspicu-
ous in the pack. “Don’t the diners ever
throw you a crust?” asked one curious male.
He merely got haughty stares for answer.
Mrs. Swanson had fed-and-wined the watch-
ers beforehand. The council room was
spread with food; moreover, there were
forests of gold-topped bottles among the pink-
and-red roses. The women made . a welter
of best-dresses. Mrs. Woolcott might have
prepared for a Court drawing-room with hei
gorgous robe of georgette brocaded in silver
and blue. Mrs. Town-Clerk Ellery had her
first outing from the sick-room, and spread
an alluring dress of baby-blue and point lace.
A niece of the new Mayoress was tall and
dark and imposing in ivory color. The Best
lady was in black and bruise blue. The
widow Carty Salmon w - as martial in a jet
skirt-of-mail over some nebulous chiffon.
Mrs. Arnold Westley was plump and smart
in black and white. The Mayoress herself
chose black lace with a rose sash over white
satin. Ex-Mayoress Stein was a gorgeous
vision in old-rose and gold lace.
The diners, in the cavern below the bal-
conies, were disappointing. They turned out
in dull, ordinary dinner togs. Even the
aldermen. But the new Mayor was gor-
geous enough. His burly chest was covered
with yards of rabbit-skip and gold chains.
The speeches were many and long. Admiral
Grant pulled up abruptly on hearing a diplo-
matic cough from the rear. Pity—because
Grant can make an after-dinner speech.
Pearce, however, had bagged extra time for
his thunder and gesture, but his words were
drowned by their own echoes.
Roma Clarke and Colonel Harrison are
now honeymooning in the peace of Dream-
thorpe, Macedon. And surely it was blessed
peace after the turmoil of the wedding pre-
parations; for the affair at St. John’s and
afterwards was fashionable and elaborate to
the nth degree. Roma is of the W. J. T.
Clarke family of Mount Schank (S.A.) and
Toorak, and they have money to burn. Also
Roma has always loved to wear startling
toilettes. As a bride her dress was expensively
severe, but had two trains. The court train
was covered with grandmother’s lace, and
the minor train underneath carried lace be-
queathed by aunt. There was orange blossom
everywhere, and the church was decorated
with orange-trees in full fruit and blossom.
The ceremony bagged a double allowance of
vice-regal guests. The Governor Irvines were
there, and Lady Allardyce. Every title in
Melbourne was on the list. The breakfast
was spread in a rose-pink tent among pink
roses. The presents included one that was
valued greatly;, it came from the ’groom’s
brother officers of the R.A.A. There was also
a bracelet from Colonel Harrison's mother, at
Ex ley House. Tiverton, Devonshire. The
bride wore pearls magnificent enough for a
princess. She carried white roses sent to
her from the Prahran Creche, which she has
greatly helped, and there was the blessing
of the babies on it. Two sisters, Nesta and
Thelma, and Adelaide Napier, of Adelaide,
were bridesmaids. Small Davy Knox and
Diana Landale were at the end of the 18-
foot train. They were turned out in satin
and lace.
Sassiety is satisfied that at last it has
had a real wedding-—an old-fashioned spread
of great splendor.
While Roma Clarke was doing her Gaby
glide up the aisle of St. John’s, Toorak,
the very needy Alfred Hospital was having
shekels raked in for it at Myers’s tea-rooms.
Indefatigable Mrs. Barry Thompson, Mrs'.
Robins and Mrs. Geo. Tallis were chief
gatherers. Myers gave a sumptuous tea
and did everything handsomely. He and his
wife —they were married in America—stood
the battery of female eyes —hundreds of
them —well. (Melbourne knew’ her as a
Baillieu.) The bridegroom hid his years
and his Russian appearance under a short
military upper-lip arrangement. Gertrude
Johnson gave her services, and of course
Walter Kirby. Mrs. Stein brought a party,
so did Mrs. Carty Salmon, Dolly Castles
Finn left her baby for the time being, and
Mrs. .T. E. Mackey was one of a large
throng.
Little Lady Allardyce, of the Apple, Isle,
has left the Irvines and gone to Federal
Government House. Her son. Captain Good-
fellow, who is aide to the Tasmanian Excel-
lency, has disturbed his relations by having
to go into a hospital for a throat operation
- —the after-effects of gassing on the Somme.
Melbourne Club pals and others are giving
that inveterate old bachelor Colonel Selwyn
Campbell a warm welcome back. He blew
into Melbourne long ago for a brief visit
and liked us so much he stayed 18 years.
His regiment is the Royal Sussex, and in
his young days he went through the Nile
campaign.
At the Interstate Conference of the Vic-
toria League, a heavily-impressive affair,
some of the well-corseted dames got a shock
at Lady Forster’s attitude towards various
things; for the Forster lady, though grey-
haired, is very young in spirit. The dis-
cussion had raged ground the conduct of the
children of the day in relation to the autho-
rity of parents. Said Lady Forster: “Child-
ren have always criticised their parents—
in every generation. In earlier days they
had not so much chance of expression.
As for me, I criticised my parents. I should
not have done so, but I did. I tell my
children not to look on me as an Example
but as a Warning.”
At the afternoon welcome to Lady Forster
the Victoria League charged its members 3s.
per head for the tea they couldn’t get; it
was sparsely passed round the Town Hall,
the supper-room being too full of corks and
signs of past functions for present use.
Most of the women fled, as soon as they
could, for real refreshment to the Women’s
Club. Her Ex., who has shouldered her
responsibilities and those of her sick spouse
splendidly, spoke without notes, and made
her remarks quite human. Lady Allardyce
came in clay-colored georgette and tulle hat;
and the Arthur Robinson dame got a gliit
of color in her garb, which was rose jersey
cloth and finished a little below the knees.
Following on the head vicar’s garden squash
Mrs. Keating hostessed an informal, space-
limited tea-party for Tasmanian Senators
and politicians to meet Lady Allardyce on
the balcony 0 f the Queen’s Hall, Parliament
House. At the last moment her husband
was called away to the country, and college-
girl Tulla helped her mother at the tables,
which were decorated with fairy roses, and
there was an exquisite posy for each guest.
Mrs. Keating got into ivory georgette and
Maltese lace, and the chief guest wore a
cream coat and skirt. Afterwards they
strolled round the gardens. Laird Smith,
M.I-I.R. and eligible, escorted her Ex., fol-
lowed by those who didn’t have to rush home
to see to the chops and children.
Behind the scenes at Her Majesty’s they
were talking of the genial masterfulness of
poor Florence Young, and her influence in
promoting peace and goodwill. The .story
was retold of how she once arrived upon
the steene of a J.C.W. picnic in the golden
summer. She hadn’t gone down with the
party, and when she reached the picnic spot
one or two of the panto girls met her .with
a sad tale of dissension among the merry-
makers. Recognised couples had quarrelled,
owing in one case to the lady having smiled
too sweetly on a frivolous johnnie—a
mere gilded non-professional who had
been allowed to join the party—and
in another case to the fickleness of
the king of gnomes, who was inclined
to love-more than one ballerina at a time.
These misunderstandings were fully ex-
plained to Florrie, and as soon as she had
digested the facts she called the culprits over
the coals. Her sympathies inclined towards
the weaker sex. The tall and shapely fairy
with the once-gladsome eye was .seated weep-
ing and alone under a tree, deserted by the
gilded johnnie because her regulation sweet-
heart had given the young man one good
punch to go on with, and had promised him
more if he went looking for trouble. There
was the sad, penitent fairy bemoaning her
indiscretion in .silence, whilst her angry
swain—the hind legs of the donkey in the
panto—was making a thin pretence of
carrying on with a columbine. Florrie
summoned the animal impersonator and
asked him what lie meant by casting gloom
over the picnic. “Go straight to Clara and
give her a kiss,” she said. Whereuponl the
victim of jealousy did as he wa.s told, and
the frisky fairy remained as good as gold
for the rest of the day. Then the peace-
maker told the king of the gnomes he ought
to be ashamed of himself, and advised the
interloping ballerina to “drop it,” and
brought the other one and the gnome king
together again, waving her parasol over the
reunited pair with a “Bless you, my chil-
dren !” gesture. Somebody had been wanted
to clear the atmosphere and diffuse good
humor, and hearty Florence Young was the
picnic’s friend in need.
A girl who has never got past the chorus
—an old girl now —puts it this way: “Florrie
had such a way with her. And, you see, she
never got uppish, no matter how she was
getting on. Many’s the time since she was
a top-notcher she’s given us girls real cham-
pagne to drink her health in.”
Tennis-champion Gerald Patterson has
been rapped on the knuckles for his little
outbursts when he misses the ball. People
wonder whether he behaved so before the
French lady champion with whom he scored
both on the court and off. There’s a rumor
of the foreign lady’s admiration; but the girl
he left behind him in Victoria still holds his
heart.
The Tennis girl has taken to the jumper
with avidity, and pretty-colored parasols
made bright splodges of color on the stands
at the inter-State matches. Lady Swinner-
ton Dyer affected a yellow jumper and
swathed herself in a pink chiffon veil like a
rosy cloud. President Theyre Weigall buzzed
about in a grey suit with a sensible pair of
white, hot-weather boots. Rosie Lumsdaine,
of Sydney, in a yellow lid and jumper,
nestled like a gosling in the front seats;
and Mrs. Norm an Brookes and Mrs Tommy
Hawkes looked cool in blue foulards with
shady flower-strewn hats.
From Adelaide, wet but happy:—
New Treasurer Ritchie seems to have all “Dis-
mal Dick” Butler’s luck as well as his own. Provi-
dence delighted in spoiling all Butler’s budgets;
but no sooner had Ritchie, greatly daring, based his
estimates on an exceptional 15-bushel harvest than
general rains fell to assure it and add another million
to our great expectations.
Mrs. William Maeleod, of Sydney, flashed through
Adelaide lately, and the mayoral Hackett-Moulden
pair showed her the Crown Derby at the Town Hall
one morning. The Premier left his prosperous
country’s business for 10 minutes to aid the brilliant
Mayoress. Some of Adelaide’s other nobility, in-
cluding Talbot Smith, minueted along, and the con-
versation rose loftily. The smiling- visitor pulled
it down by remarking to the Mayor that the whole
country was dressed like a beautiful salad. In
truth, S. Australia is luxuriating in a wonderful
season.
Nellie, daughter of John Lewis, lias said “Yes” to
George Cowan, the last of a big family of sons to
marry, “Snowy” having taken the plunge with the
pretty Rischbieth widow the other day. The momen-
tous question was asked in England, where George,
having temporarily relinquished the pursuit of 6s.
Bd., went during the war, and did fine work as* a
Red Cross Commissioner. Defective eyesight kept
him out of khaki. And Kathleen Shannon has
given a promise to Hartley Williams.
The Armistice Day bells rang the knell of Dr.
Johann Carl George Jurs, of Adelaide. He came
to Australia from Denmark at 30, and had been in
Australia for just on half a century. One of his
four daughters is Carlien Jurs, the musician.
Mrs. Fred Caley Smith, who died on November’
10, was S. Australia’s leading woman horticulturist.
She was a scientist as well as a business woman,
and had travelled widely to extend her knowledge.
She was the daughter of Captain C. John Hill, of
Scott’s Creek, Mt. Lofty, and was only 38.
Dr. R. 11. Strong is the physician attend-
ing the G.-G., who is getting over his attack
of diphtheritic throat. What a flood of
recollections the very, amiable doctor’s name
tapped! The official bulletin provided the
Very Best with three topics—the patient,
speculation on the Gup-week visitor to Gov-
ernment House who was a diphtheria-“car-
rier” and infected vice-royalty, and the
physician.
Mary Katrine Langston, one of the “Lang-
dale” Langstons, of Longreach (Q.), has
said yes to Ron James, an aviator boy. Ron,
a son of Major and Mrs. James, of Mel-
bourne, was overseer on Westlands (Q.)
before the war, but has started growing
oranges and things on Northcroft,. an irri-
gated patch at Sea Lake, alongside the
Murray.
Some carnival gadders'still linger longer.
Mrs. Tooliey, very business-like in her Vic.
League effort, came to attend the twelfth
yearly discussion, conveniently arranged
for Cup-time. Her sister, Miss Egan, has
fled back to the Ma State and her post -war
work. Other Sydneysiders still here are the
Gordon Wesehe lady and Miss Edith Hill,
both. of them Victoria Leaguers. A Tas-
manian family that remains to cuss our
varied climate are the Eustace Camerons, of
Ross, in the Midlands. Mrs. Cameron and
her pretty Elspeth, once-removed from flap-
perdom, went through the festivities and all
the best jazzes. . Mr. Cameron arrived with
daughter Alison by the Malwa in time for
the final gallop, after depositing a son and
heir at Rugby.
A platoon of the Best People thronged the
tiny Queen’s Hall to hear ’cellist Adeline
Leon. Lady Forster, Lady Digby, Mrs. Pitt-
Rivers and a gent.-help formed the arm-
chair section. Everyone aired her best go-
to-theatre chiffonery, and on the male side
the gathering looked like a Medical Congress.
The They re Weigall son turned over the
music for his mother, who played Adelina s
accompaniments. After the recital the
Maudsley and Ryan dames held a glad sup-
per party at the Alexandra Club in honor
of the petite artist.
Viva Sommers, to whom Judge Sehutt
promptly gave a decree for divorce from
her Bohemian artist husband, is a daughter
of the late Railway Commissioner Francis.
The trio of Francis sisters used to be the
life and soul of the artists’ mask balls held
by the Victorian Society. One is the wife
of Hughie Callan, of Port Darwin.
Contralto Dorothy Murdoch got rather
roasted by the critics in London. They ad-
mit, nevertheless, a great quantity of voice.
She was rushed off rather hurriedly; but
probably she wanted to storm London while
Melba was there.
Billy Chisholm, a Digger who has just come
home, has made his voice heard in England
since the Armistice. He won every prize of
the R.A.M. in Lon-
don for the year—
that is, every prize
that was dangled be-
fore a man-singer.
His voice is a mag-
nificent baritone with
a tenor range. He
took R.A.M. prizes
in Australia before
they war —-that was
in his school days.
He jumped right into
successful concert
work in England
and Scotland when
the guns cooled, and
he has some fine con-
tracts calling him
back to London, in-
cluding one with Sir
Alfred Butt and another that means a tour
in Italy next year.
Chisholm’s voice got him the lead (with-
out any stage experience) in “The Lilac
Domino;-” and he was a success during its
six months’ run in London. Besides that
voice he owns a physique that can stand the
strain of hard study and work, and behind
that again are his fine energy and applica-
tion. The portrait is by Ruth Hollick.
The Clara Butts—papa, mamma and the
family—are preparing for another impress-
ive tour of Australia. There’s a mountain
of Saratogas to be got ready.
The Mermaid Play Society has overhauled
its ideas since Arthur Goodsall left
it to go to Allan Wilkie. Instead of
resurrecting the Elizabethans, it is going
to give some of the modern writers
a chance. The new producer is Mrs.
Apperly, of the Dublin Abbey Theatre, who
has taken good parts in different plays of
Synge and Yeats, and has also starred with
Sir Alfred Butt in London. The bill of
fare for next season includes Masefield,
Yeats, Milne and Oliver Goldsmith, and
looks attractive enough. It has been the
custom of all Melbourne Repertory move-
ments, though, to think they have' succeeded
when they have attracted the attention of
a Governor-General, and the Mermaid
Society s&ems to be going the snobbish way.
Mrs. Horace Benjafield, a daughter of W.
J. McWilliams, leader of the Country Party
in the Reps, recently had triplet sons, but
unhappily only one lived. Horace has an
orchard at Saltwater River, not far from
father-in-law’s farm and slieeprun.
The high silk hat is having an innings.
Men bought the ugly things for the Prince
visit, and then discovered that Edward P.
favored the soft lid or the tight little boxer.
The new hats must have an airing,- so races
and garden parties reap a crop of the toad-
stools.
Government House visiting list is still in
a state of effervescence. Crowds of the
Really Naicest have been ignored, so far,
and the battling Fringe has had a great
innings. The Fringe, however, must have
felt very ragged at times. “The wah is
ovah,” said the looks behind some lorgnettes
—“must we keep up with the mob of Red
Crossers?” -
The jazzers are insatiable. So Jennie
Brenan and sister Eileen are off by the
Osterley to collect the latest steps "from
London, Paris and New Yoick.
Concerning an annual visitor: —
The Bulletin's Christmas number will arrive on
Saturday, December 11. It looks all right. There
is a front page by Hop. who at 74 makes his pencil
produce “Christmas Supplements I Have Known”;
and there is a grin in every square inch of it.
Norman Lindsay has a page of bears; Leason sends
Dad Christmas Outback ; and Low, Alf Vincent,
Connelly, Minns, Souter, McCrae, Mab Treeby, Oswald
Pryor, Muir Auld, Percy Lindsay and a dozen others
are represented. It’s not all pictures, of course:
Henry Lawson, Bedford, J. H. M. Abbott and almost
every other front-rank writer in Australia are repre-
sented. With three or four exceptions the yarns
don’t look quite as good as last year’s; but the
drawings are “better, and the verse is fine.


Zt
a
A governing'
factor in the
economy of
motoring*
Car up-keep cost has never been
as diligently studied as it is
to-day. Motorists throughout Australia
have become keenly alive to values.
They are out to buy Service in the best
market; and one of the strongest indi-
cations of this keen demand for Quality
is marked by the heavily increased sales
of Michelin Tyres.
Michelin Universal Tread Covers
and Red Ring-shaped Tubes
are affording fullest satis-
faction to all who seek lowest
tyre cost per mile.
MICHELIN 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
31 KING STREET, MELBOURNE.
TYRES
P/ease Order
through yovr
Garage.
Obtainable only
from Bona-fide
Motor Dealers.
MICHELIN


Under
Royal
Warrant
&i£2Sk
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
Q »ariesncidsicdc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
•089
CENTAL
Hotel
Accepted as
Melbourne’s Finest
Achievement in high-
class Hotel Service.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
Phone Cent. 4984.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
s *>
hi
MMWMm: 5!
V/j/i
V.A ,\
a
Exhaltation
Every new creation she wears is so
adorably individual and chic, yet so
delightfully different from, the last, that
the capricious heart of Milady is filled
with rapture. Hence her timely visits to
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
r V ) anity’ c fair
miftaaKWiES
You can have that well
gloved look that appeals
to women if you wear
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
—the gloves of charm
and exclusive style.
They are truly economi-
cal, because of their
high quality and the
long service they give.
Ask your Draper—
he should stock them.
VF 35
pijiiiffr
lltif!!!BSRa«-
iiti'mtii*
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
Jones
Catalogue
Billjim came back to Sydney last week.
He came from France, from Gallipoli, from
Egypt, somewhat lean of face, swaggering
a little and jostling among the Armistice Day
crowd in Martin-place to see what the row
was about. The younger among him stood
upon the Post Office steps as they might have
done at 11 o’clock any November morning
watching the muslin-clad, slim-ankled -girls
ppss intent on work or shopping. They
caught sight of mum and dad in the crowd,
and of the sweethearts of that long-ago Spring
when the world seemed steeped in the scent
of pittosporum. And even while each of
that ghostly company pressed close to his
own, oblivious of the brass-hats, the notes
of the Last Post clove the air, and mum and
dad and the girl he left behind him bowed
their heads, and Billjim realised what had
drawn him from the long sleep in Egypt or
in France. The notes died into silence. The
pigeons wheeled in sudtfen alarm. The finger
was lifted from the pulse the city, which
flung itself feverishly into its own affairs
once more, as though to make up for the two
minutes of inaction. But mum and dad and
the girl he left behind him felt the living
presence beside them all day.
And at night-time, under a handful of
glistening stars flung high in a cold sky,
thousands once more thronged Martin-place,
where Sydney’s soldier-Dean mixed with a
master hand Rupert Brooke, “O God, Our
Help in Ages Past,” and two verses of the
Recessional.
A snowy bank of Y.A.D.’s bloomed upon
the Post Office steps; and on the usual bit
of platform sat Place and Power, including
Dame Margaret, the Dean’s Titian-headed
lady, dear old Hanbury Davies, much-
decorated Matrons Kellett and Gould, and
unobtrusive Vicar-General D’Arcy Irvine.
And in the crowd men stood bareheaded, and
women wept quietly for dreams that can
never come true.
The grounds surrounding the Ryde Home
for Incurables were beautiful in the sun-
shine of Saturday afternoon, and hundreds
of Sydney wellwishers motored there to the
fete. 'Miss Margaret Harris, one of this
ark’s most devoted friends, drove all the
long way in her barouche drawn by a pair
of plump bays ; she herself wearing the dig-
nity of soft black satin made with a rounded
train, a beautiful black lace coat and a real
bonnet; and if you know her you don’t need
to _be told that her afternoon was
taken up in visiting the cases that
even on this great day were confined to the
wards. Dame Margaret opened the function
in the old original way, with his Ex. and
the Lamb helping. Most of the stalls were
on the lower lawn, covered In from the
weather by a huge marquee, and they were
positively besieged by rows of women' whose
one complaint was that they could not get
nearly enough to buy. Kit and Jess, with
the other small patients, ran a toy stall,
organiser Maggie Thwaites sat watching the
fruits of her labors, and one busy and happy
old man sold garden chairs and seats. For
those not lucky enough to have a motor-car
there were coaches to meet the trains, and
one of them was as high as the conning tower
of a man-o’-war, a relic of Cobb and Co.’s
original outfit. It was great fun to see
a would-be woman passenger cast one look
at the Alp-like step, and another at her skirt,
and then decide that it couldn’t be done, and
make a dash for the overcrowded but nego-
tiable motor-bus.
Sydney is making another grab at the
nynig drapery of Repertory. Gregan
McMahons coo-ee has caused the lady to
pause and listen to the Taits’ proposition
to provide her with a roof-tree on condition
that she has 500 declared supporters by
December 15. Her best young man, Gregan
McMahon, and another old admirer, Profes-
sor MacCallum, have been calling her charms
with such a loud voice that she has gained
in three weeks 205 supporters.
As a result of his recent visit to Adelaide,
\erbrugghen has offered to join forces with
John Dempster’s Choral Society there, and
return next .May to give a great joint per-
formance of Beethoven’s Choral Symphony.
Dempster, who began some years ago with a
women’s choir, has lately taken in male
voices too, and is prepared to tackle any-
thing. Verbrugghen adds cannily, however.
f hat this time he would like a guarantee
ironi the Holy City that his visit shall be a
financial as well as an artistic success.
His Ex. and' Dame Margaret are off on
a western tour. From Gilgandra they go
to Coonamble to visit the Soldiers’ Memorial
Eaths, and camp with Mr. and Mrs. Buck-
nell at Quambovne. At Dubbo they look in
at the hospital and the headquarters of the
Eush Brotherhood, and unveil an honor-roll.
±hey then beam on the jubilee celebrations
ot the Bathurst Diocese, and unveil a mem-
orial to George Evans, once Deputy-Surveyor-
General of N. S. Wales, and, according to
the history books, discoverer of the Bathurst
flams. Mr. and Mrs. Jago Smith put them
up.
Miss Henderson, who has been one of the
bulwarks of the Friendly Union of Soldiers’
Wives, had. a cable-length of good wishes
Hung about her at Tresco, her old Elizabeth
x>ay home, last week, when Commodore
Edwards s wife hostessed the Friendly Union
and passed round the tealeaf of farewell.
Chaplain Hardie, of the Tingara, bloomed
into sott speech of appreciation; and Mrs
Edwards, in amethyst-toned frocking, handed
over an armful of pink roses. Miss Hender-
son, who is now aboard the Osterley—which
should land her in England just in time for
a hi lls h-up before Christmas Day—implored
all hands and the cook to stick to the Union;
and the band from the Brisbane supplied
musical outbursts.
Sydney, is simply bursting with Notables
and Mobilities. Sheila Lady Loughborough
and Sergeant Olive Ivelso King are back in
the bosoms of their families, and a bona-fide
Eussian Prince, Obolensky, discourses on the
Bolshevik horror which robbed him of the
family wealth and sent him out to look for
. work.
On December 11 the Sydney Hospital
Auxiliary is giving a real old-fashioned
Christmas party in the grounds of Ascham,
and the Navy has promised to look after the
kiddies at all the side-shows, Santa Claus
has been asked to drop in, and all sorts of
Christmas gifts are to furnish the stalls,
lliere is to be dancing on the green, and the
crisp, cool nurses from the hospital are to
be in charge of the tea tables.
Hijda Caro is arranging another cake com-
petition—this time the flour-sifter and the
egg-beater are going to put their heads to-
fCther to Help the Alexandra Hospital for
Children. Ben Fuller has donated a prize
or tor the King Cake, which will have
the blue ribbon attached to it by the Tech-
nical School authorities. Entries close Dec
can be had of Secretary Moss,
A.M i . Buildings, where the eatables are to
be deposited till the day of judgment. All
the cakes sent in are to become the property
e hospital, for which institution they
will be sold or raffled.
This is Olive Kelso King, who arrived
last week at Quambi, which her people
110U "‘ u from the Darley estate while she was
ii'vay, to find it en
fete with flags, Brit-
ish, Australian and
Servian particu-
larly Servian. She
has not been demob-
ilised yet by the
Servian Government,
and neither, of
course, has Flora
Sandes. In point of
fact, the Servians
never voluntarily
demobilise anyone.
The spirit of the
Masonic principle,
“O nee a Mason
always a Mason.” is
said to have been
plagiarised by the
craft from an earlv
dictum ol the Narodna-Skupshtina to the
effect that, as the country was always
either just finishing a war or just getting
ready to start one, demobbing would be
waste of time and energy.
Miss Soubeiran and Miss Gurney have
dropped back quietly into Sydney from
I ranee, where they have been disbursing the
last of the funds of the French Australian
League of Help. The Mitchell Library is
to be enriched by the Legion of Honor pre-
sented by Poincaire to Sister Julie, the
little elderly nun who flung herself, a flame
of living indignation, in the path of the Prus-
sian brute in the early horrors of Alsace.
Sister Julie, who sends her decoration
to Australia to express her gratitude for
what the Australians did for her country
has a brother who is a priest at Villa Maria’
Hunter’s Hill.
This comes with the new moon from
Brisbane: —
The funds of St. Martin’s Hospital (the Anglican
Church War Memorial) have had a fine lift from a
jazz party organised by silver-voiced Mrs. Gilbert
ilson at the Belle Vue. All Society arrived on
the mat, leading its husband or its best young man
or both. Leo Morgan auctioned a leather hand-
bag, the work of a returned soldier, on the snow-
ball principle, and £261 was snared this way. Eric
Aiming, one of the squatting tribe, bought the bag
finally for £47. Another day, in pouring rain, dozens
of females rattled collecting-boxes for the same hospi-
*al ’ avid ralsed £2500. And a big concert at the
Exhibition raised more good cash, £l5O coming
10m the sale of a flag on the before-mentioned
piratical principle.
Queensland Derby Day .began under weeping skies,
but cleared up sufficiently to allow the vainer sex
to show its new frock and its best hat. One of
the prettiest rigs was worn by Mrs. Waldron Taylor,
a new bride, whose costume of Fuji silk, patterned
in blue, was strapped with dark-blue satin. Her
georgette hat showed three big silk dahlias nestled
round the crown. Wednesday (Queensland Cup
ay) was so hot that voiles or muslins were almost
universally worn. Mrs. Jack Fihelly wore white,
and a floral hat. Mrs. (Brigadier) Irving inhabited
a navy foulard, and Mrs. J. T. Bell violet georgette.
Mrs. Waldron Taylor appeared in another trousseau
frock—sand jersey cloth, with a pleated skirt and
henna-colored embroideries on the bodice.
Doris Waraker, one of our minor poetesses, has
accepted the usual token from David Broughton, son
of Mrs. H. B. Broughton, of Edgecliff, Sydney.
Major Charlie Stodart, M.C., younger son of James
Stodart, many years M.L.A. for the Logan, was
married last week to Beris Nolan, elder daughter of
the Stanley Nolans of Toowoomba. Maude Wilcox
and Kathleen Nolan were the bridesmaids, and Gavin
Murray was best man. Also Dr. Marshall Allan,
M.C., elder son of James Allan, of Allan and Stark,
and Polly, Harry Bracker’s youngest chick, have
said their “I wills.” The veil for the latter event
was lent by Mrs. R. Marcus, who was Mila Braeker,
and one of Brisbane’s beauties. Another sister, Ilarrie,
and Flora Cran were bridesmaids, and Dr. Tarrant
Ferguson upheld the groom.
Ardoyne, Hugh Nelson’s old home at Corinda, was
officially opened by Mrs. Lennon on Tuesday as a
Red Cross refuge for t.b. cases. Ardoyne stands in
acies of land, and people who live in constant
fear of ‘catching” anything from croup to cancer
can all stop outside. The house overlooks one of the
prettiest reaches of the Brisbane River, and the ward
which the Railways employees gave to the Kangaroo-
point Hospital has been purchased and erected in the
grounds. Matron Macdonald, R.R.C., is in charge.
Dora Ohlfsen opened a small, interesting
and uneven art show at her studio above the
roar of Bathurst-street last week. It in-
cludes bronzes and portraits and some violent-
hued flower studies. The 1 small bronze
plates are fascinating and full of atmosphere
one small gem, “Oxen Ploughing,” brings
up a picture of days when the soil and the
fruits thereof were the only riches known to
man, and there are some dashing and aristo-
cratic-looking nantos that probably won a
bob or two for the Caesars. The younger
Earp girl looks out from a bed of roses, and
Bobbie, Macmillan chooses the same vegeta-
tion as background for her buster cut.
There s a medallion of W. A. Holman, done
tor daughter Portia, and there’s a portrait of
a lady of Borne with a perfect poem of a
throat. And, of course, the Anzac medal,
which is Dora’s reason for being in Austra-
lia. The opening afternoon was almost a
family affair. The Holmans dropped in;
and the Macmillan lady with her actress
daughter. Mrs. Earp and her pictured
one, and Hilda Caro, with one or two others,
made up the group.
Bene Maxwell went off to Melbourne last
week, and is already deep in rehearsal for
T{ ie Domino.” Hugh D. reckons
lhe Dommo” wilt , protect the Tivoli for
many a rainy day.
beautifully-mannered Lieutenant
D ley Hughes, who was one of the Navy’s
most popular adjuncts, is lost to Sydney
girls for ever. He was married in London
the other week to an English girl, Gladys
Crawford.
The Penleigh Boyd pictures at Gayfield
Shaw s _ rooms are so many little bits of
Australia that he has lured into frames.
There are 28 canvases, of which “Dawn”
makes the appeal of a world swept clean of
yesterday’s wrong. One can almost see the
“woodland things with beating hearts and
shining eyes” peeping through the dewy
freshness; and in “Morning Blue” there is
a singing radiance that might even massage
some of the wrinkles of State from Billy
Hughes’s satin cheek. Penleigh, by the
way, has been week-ending with Arthur
Allen at Moonbarra, which he has been com-
missioned to paint; and if he can transfer
only one-quarter of the honeymooning
romance of the place, the picture will be a
serious rival to Will Shakspeare’s “Borneo
and Juliet.”
Wagga’s most confirmed bachelor is taking
unto himself a wife. Be is Colonel Bennett,
fought in the Soudan, S’Africa, France
Egypt, and has five medals to his chest.
The lady is Miss Lawler, and the engage-
ment-ring seals years and years and years
of silent devotion on the Colonel’s part,
when not soldiering Colonel Bennett is
doing special work for the Education Depart-
ment. His dad was Basil Bennett, of
Wagga.
The new Mrs. Dalton dragged her Tom to
the Bose Ball for Mount St. Margaret’s
Hospital, Byde. The fair-haired lady, who
was president, was radiant in palest tones
of lavender, and carried a pot of money in
the hand-made flower trails' that festooned
the skirt. She was a sort of Flora, and the
background of long-handled baskets filled
with rose bouquets for the guests capped the
lJ i u s on ; the little dance was one
ot the best dressed of the season.
Pretty little Mrs. Reggie- Broomfield is
getting things together in a hurry for a
flight to America with her husband, to whom
a heart specialist has ordered a general
loaf.
At the Registrar-General’s Department
Armistice Day was commemorated by the
unveiling of an honor-board with the names
of the office’s 92 who went overseas; nine of
them were decorated, and 13 w r ent west. Gov-
ernor Davidson, supported by Dame Mar-
garet, did the unveiling, and the office choir
sang Kipling’s “Recessional.” Afterwards
the Excellencies, the heads and the mothers
of those who fell were given tea upstairs,
hostessed by the senior girls of the Depart-
ment.
“Bob” Watkins, who died last week, had
laughed with more people than almost any
other man in Sydney. He hrnli hnen in busi-
ness so Jong that
the memojy of man
hardly runs to the
contrary; and when
he wasn’t at work
for himsel he was
doing it for some-
body el»e. For
nearly a third of a
cemfeuay- he was an
al donum n, either of
Wavedey or of the
city: when politics
that- he didn’t know
came in', it was the
present Mayor of
Sydney who took his
seat. He was born
in Wales; but there
was' never a better
Australian.
Measles as well as diphtheria broke out at
Federal Government House at Cup-time; so
the family won’t be in Sydney this week as
arranged. The visit is indefinitely post-
poned.
His Ex. is as enthusiastic as a boy on
cricket. He knows the careers of all the
English players, and will entertain the
team next Saturday. It will be a man’s
show —a smoko with music.
Dr. Herrick Knowles will soon have his
chum home again. The wife who was Lilian
Titheradge is on her way back to Rose Bay.
leaving England “in a parlous state.”
There’s a window display in Pitt-street
that holds up the traffic. Behind the panes
models pose in the correct “bathers” essential
to every woman who values herself suffici-
ently. There are little things in stoekingette
(Royal blue and yellow is one combination)
priced as low as £lB for the working man’s
wife. But the Queen Peach of the beach
is attired in jade green, the very decollete
neck and under-arms edged with lighter
tones; shoes and stockings, a Pagoda-shaped
green umbrella, a monster puffed green
cushion capable of seating a Mark Antony
as well as his Cleopatterer, an ornate green
bag to carry home the pearls or the prawns ;
and a jade-green cape to finish off this little
lot —modestly priced at £lO9 13s. 3d. One
late night a week or two ago Mark Foy’s
had their live young ladies in Canadians
walking about a window set for a beach
scene. Unfortunately the night was chilly,
and after one shivering glance the late
shopper fled for her life.
Eric 11. Thompson, well known to the
medical and drug people of Australia, has
fallen upon hard times : illness has kept him a
prisoner for over two years, and he is still
unable to walk. His friends hope by means
of a jazz concert to raise funds to buy a
chair for him. Lindley Evans and Gladys
Ginsberg are arranging the party for Dec.
1 at Miss Bishop’s, Elizabeth-street (old
Concordia Hall). Plan is at Paling’s.
The William C. Uptons have furnished and
equipped two new wards at the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, and Mrs. Upton will say
the formal Open Sesame this (Thursday)
afternoon at 3.30.
To-morrow night the splendors of the
Balloon Ball will be revealed at the Town
Hall.
On Saturday afternoon the grounds at
Rose Bay Convent are to see its flapper
pupils and their mammas busied with a fete
which the local Governor’s wife will open.
The takings go to furnish a ward in the
Soldiers’ Memorial Wing at St. Vincent’s.
Beryl, youngest daughter of the Seligs, of
Christchurch (M.L.), is to marry Oscar
Lewis Gilbert Josephson, a great-grandson
of that N. S. Wales Judge Josephson who
was a music-teacher before he took to the
law, and died richer than any other man,
Jew or Gentile, who ever sat on an Austra-
lian bench.
They were back-country children and were
playing “being married.” Eldest sister,
aged eight, was officiating; small sister and
brother were the bride and ’groom. “Will you
love, honor and obey your husband till death
do you part?” “I will,” responded the
bride with such cheerfulness that a sudden
doubt that she was being let off too easy
entered the officiating one’s mind. So she
added this staggerer: “And do you. promise
to wash his cow-yard pants?”


ill
.
ffl
- ■ '
M
H
m
■ S
r ■
mm.
1
BH
H
mm
; :'
I
mu
V
Kl\
m
mm
.s*
■
. ■
r?i
w
5/2
1
s
i
::: ,*
a
ll c
wn
. ■
■
T=~
■
st»
0,
v—l
If
\N
lii
One
.Smihh&Julius
JS Audios
c T r wo Instruments in
The Beale Player-Piano is no less a beauti-
ful piano because its usefulness is increased
by means of a player action.
On the one hand, a superb instrument for the techni-
cal musician. On the other hand, a perfect playing
technique for those who are musical but have no
manual dexterity,
The trained musician finds inspiration in classical mas-
terpieces which are too intricate for any except the
very proficient. With the player-piano he is able to for-
get technicalities in the joy of personal interpretation.
The untrained musician experiences all the pleasure
of music any time, for any length of time. His re-
pertoire is the world’s best, and he plays as his
mood dictates.
Regardless of whether you want a piano merely for
those members of your family who can play—or are
learning—consider the advantages which very little
extra expenditure will bring in the way of a player-
instrument.
Our little booklet "Advantages for Yourself” covers
many points of interest in Beale construction. Write
for a copy.
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the c ßeale
Showrooms:
333 George Street, Sydney.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
Factories ■
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
BRANCHES:
New South Wales: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. Victoria:
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston.
South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. West Australia: J. A. Thompson Co. Ltd.,
Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED,
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Townsville and Cairns.


'mis
he largest setting
quality pencil in
the world
ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS 3IEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN”
1
The above
is ■ tlie
title of our
Booklet,
which tells ,
about the possibili-
ties of DRAWING
—both as a profes-
sion and as a
pastime.
It describes in de-
tail the Drawing
Course by Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
famous Artist.
Doubtless you have
a liking and a
talent for drawing,
yet because of your
limited knowledge
you are retarding
the talent you pos-
sess. Now is your
opportunity; an d
this Booklet will
show you the proper
course to adopt, ex-
plaining in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is and why
WESTON tuition
is most successful.
Send us three penny
stamps and we will
post you a copy of
our booklet- '
“THERE’S
MONEY IN
THE PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
7 Union House, Cr. George & Grosvenor Sts.,
SYDNEY.
KEEPKOOL
FOR COMFORT
m
€
KEEPKOOL is the
sensible summer
underwear.
It is porous for cool-
ness, absorbent for
health, and elastic for
comfort.
Sold by
LEADING MERCERS
Wholesale Distributors:
HILL BROS., Sydittey aud Melbourne
JVlissingr Friends.
I > ELATIVES of the late MARTIN
" IRWIN, native of Wicklow. Ireland,
please communicate with the undersigned
Property left. J. REID STEWART, Mor-
ijjisville. Aueldiu*!. Nv2„
181
Comfort
Written All Over It.
The LONGREACH
SADDLE
is perhaps the most comfortable we produce. Note how the flaps
are sewn direct on to the seat, doing away with the usual skirt and
V 'Vi g a n ® rrow Ilon 'Chafing grip. Note also the shape and position
ot the pads. They give perfect security. A high-grade saddle
making our unrivalled saddle reputation.
£l5/15/-
Freight Free for Cash to any Port or
Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Send your height and weight
with order.
Write for our Big Catalogue.
FLIES ARE BAD NOW.
Our No. 4 Fly Veil, with stand-back
throat and leather lace veil, 5/6
each, post free, for cash with order.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
393 George Street, Sydney.
fK\(7\\
(gm
m
UUUt
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
o->/o 1.
f=?
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND |j C--./VC- BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA —Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney -
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
C-A-C
H
Q C'A-C-
O-VOJ
SPARKLETS
are back, a^ain!
Refreshing, sparkling soda drinks at a
moments call when you have a Sparklet
Syphon. If your old Syphon is out of
orc *er through being stored away for so long,
we will put it right, Free of Charge. Simply fill
in the Coupon shown below, and we will do the
rest AT ONCE. All Chemists and Stores sell
Sparklet Syphons. Why not have one?
FREE COUPON
To SPARKLETS LTD., 4 2 Pitt St., Sydney,
C Pi ease sen d me Free of Charge new Rubber Washers
and Pin for Sparklet Spyhon bought about rp
Name
oAddress
~ S.B. 18/11/’2O.
ft*?
MS
: ** 4 «*»s»«Bm2EBaai
PORTLAND VICTORIA.
FOR PRIVATE SALE, “MARETIMO,”
CHARMING SEASIDE HOME.
Ideal Position, Magnificent Ocean View, Handsome, Substantial Stone Mansion, Twenty Room's
Wide Verandahs, Conservatory, etc. FIFTY-ONE ACRES LAND (Wire-netted),
Well-laid-out grounds, tennis-court, orchard, extensive outbuildings, stables, garage, five-roomed
gardener’s cottage, bathing-box, telephone, etc.
A GREAT OPPORTUNITY to Secure a Gentleman’s Seaside Residence, Furnished.
Particulars and photo, views of the property supplied upon application to
T. H. LAIDLAW AND CO., Hamilton and Melbourne;
and J. L WYATT, Portland,
From whom also permits for inspection can be_obtained._
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
ISame and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany .
E.W.S.: “Tragedy” is beaten out too thin.
■ •••Tin H.: We’re riot throwing any bricks that
way... .C.M.L.: Not bad; with a little more point
it would have pushed in Cutter: If the Herald
had said that prices in York-street had been often
cut of late there would have been no row. It was
only the allegation of a “general” reduction that it
couldn’t prove. .. .H.W.0.: Point out the discrepan-
cies specifically and we’ll see what we can do. ...
Lesam: Afraid your prof, isn’t original.... D.K.:
No space for more than an excerpt from your paper
on the thyroid gland: “The tryroid is merely a tonic,
and causes increased energy that simply results in
wearing out old carcases all the sooner, and dumps
them in the boneyard before they know who hit
them. When the carcase can be made young and
new from the South Pole (where the corns and
bunions live) to the North Pole (where baldness
lives), outside and inside, then life may be longer.
But who the wants to live longer these hell-
upon-earth times, when everything is just what it
shouldn’t be, and every gabbling, brainless brute on
two legs is busy making it Worse?” We offer no
comments on your qualifications as either scientist
or sociologist, but as a writer you don’t lack the
priceless gift of directness 1.T.C.: No use to
us.... Owen Linden: Nothing there... .D.G.M.:
Mesmeiism was too slight to throw a shadow when
we stood it up in the fish-shop yard down the lane.
....Xenon: Stiff verse that fails to make its point.
.. . .Aspiration: Horrible. .. .E.C.C.: “Agony Lover”
won’t do Peter Pepper: Why won’t plain Aus-
tralian do without that American stuff?... ,J.W.
(East St. Kilda) : Afraid a dull statement of your
attitude to things isn’t very interesting to others
John. In the Uninspired Stakes your prose beats your
veise by a nose. . . .L.C.R.: “Dad” needed to be a
lot better... .T.V.T.: Murderous yarn has no real
feeling in it... .R.R.S.: “Dinkum Doyle” is heavy
fooling. . . .M.T. (South Kensington): No use to us.
. . . . Vealia: Hop and jump lines of poor quality. . . .
Magda : Verse goes a bit ruggedly T.G.W.: “The
Return” is a theme too often handled. ... W.K.K.:
“Mike” wanted a touch or two to give it life. For
one thing, an Australian doesn’t talk like that
Agnes S.: Not well enough written Ida 0. •
“Microbes” doesn’t get near Elby: The verse is
very good, except for your rhyming “failure” with
Australia.” But it doesn’t say much. .. . Stormer:
Far too little thought Charles M.: “Trumper”'
verses don’t get above the pretentious commonplace.
W.W. (Napier): “Cowardice” doesn’t attract
us R.N.S.: Don’t like the yarns H.G.C.: Not
up M.F. (Dulwich Hill): Your verses go mad
every now and again Bellerive: Yes, the “things
the poets’ miss” are very numerous. Don’t know one
of them who has ever sung the song of the “Outcast
Glue-pot,” so here it is:—
Spencer C.: The makings of a delicate little
thing. Now get to work and make it Pte.
Broughton: N.Y. Police Gazette, which writes as if it
knows him, says he is half-Irish, half-Indian
Lester: We refuse to see “yon moon in beauty rise”
m such stiff verse.. .N.K. (Singapore) : Not up to the
mark Chick S.: Don’t know what the “power
of the moon” is, but the verse is neither lunatic
enough nor sufficiently sane... .P.0.P.: “Drunk is
the wine—within me throbs the fruit.” A bit un-
comfortable, isn’t it ?... ’Roo: Dreary stuff.. . Claro-
yamo: Bad verse stating that you would be better
dead. We wouldn’t go so far as that ourselves. Say
dumb... .W.E.G.G.: It hasn’t a gleam in it.'.-. .
N.G. (Tweed River): Some distance from pdrt
Marieda B.: “Reflection” is verv heavy.. Cyril G •
Not well enough done.. . . H.G.C.: Says nothing and
occasionally falls over its feet in doing it.. Tom
D.: Fails in the telling... .W.M.C.: Not so badly
done.. .Eric F.: No use... .F.A.M.: You don’t make
much of the fish yarn. Try again Louie H.: Not
the quality in it... . Caley: There isn’t enough in the
water-melon incident... .F.J.1.H.: Experience full
of dust and ashes, also wormwood and gall, has
taught us that verses beginning “Do you know?”
are no good. You merely furnish one more peck
of ashes....G.D.M.: “The World Maker” might be
a lot finer and more forceful J.P.0.: No use
here. Don’t think it’s any use anywhere... .W S •
The last stanza- as a sample:—
AftC taxation 6318 ° f struggling ’ folks are loaded with
rj.o'r™ as, “ tors
VSThouffVb™™? mrtm-
smother po^ic * ans an Y conscience they have they
They ead!' e other naUght bUt PIaCC and pay and abuse
“ ,sM
.... Louburke: You don’t get any humor into the
leavenly idyll... .Robert 0.: Not what we want....
By rig: All right. McMorrison got an M.C., too
after he was dead. Let it go at that Ku’ku: No
general rule. In N.Q. there is banana land which
having had no fertiliser, has been worked out by
Chinese in 10 years. Around Sydney there is
vegetaMe land which, after up to 40 years’ use by
Chinese, is fatter now than it was at the beginning.
....C. S. Curtis: Bulletin never said “a few
months agto,” or at any other time, that “liquor
is doomed,” “the handwriting is on the wall,” that
“alcohol has been weighed and found wanting” as
a beverage,” and “the next poll it will be finished.”
in this paper’s opinion the sentiments quoted are as
absurd as the grammar is rotten.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
October: All your people suffer from shocking
deformities....C.L.D.: You’d better let Norman
Dindsay have a monopoly of the Devil F.D.: Now
send us the birth certificate of the joke Ex-
Gympie: Thanks; but not an illustratable idea in
m h e ~ un c k - • • .F.M.G.: Both fail.... Raw Recruit:
mat s a 11... .Booster: An old ’un.. .A.W.B. : Feeble
pencilling... ,H.K.: S6me promise.... T.D.: The
joke does not justify the waste of ink.
Upon the refuge of a dust-bin,
In a narrow lane,
Lay a little glue-pot,
ltusty from the rain.
I carried home the glue-pot,
Not that I was mean,
To put in through a process
With rag and kerosene.
I laid aside the glue-pot,
For use some future time;
Then sat me down at twilight
To pen iny simple rhyme.


Shipping.
orient; line
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
till: Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 24,
VENTURA,
10,01)0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
the:
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, li.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . . . 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
Acting General Manager—M. G. DAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—Eondon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland. f
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. ~ .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. IT. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E,C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbaiiin.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 600,000
£1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. - 625,000
' £1,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with' 91 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on Loudon,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Caiudiait-Atistralasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 16.
R.M.S. MAKURA, January 13. ‘
And every 28 days thereafter.
HONOLULU SEASON—SPECIAL TOURS.
December to March.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. MARAMA, December 7.
R.M.S. TOFUA, JANUARY 7.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, Dec. 2, Dec.' 30.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
:: m
tmmr
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WA LES.
'
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, li.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas BucUland, Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq ; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager : Sir John Russell French, 1i.8.E.
Ilea<l Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London..
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
JM^Susttalia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Austraia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.0.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
SYDNEY LIMITED
COMPANY OF
iblished 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Huddart Parkci Ll^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended, tour can travel by S.S. !‘Amra,"
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Pliilp & Co. Ltd.;
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAV AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES. —Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/18/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.'—AII Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited,
iilackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian- Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —-at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane),
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.
WATCHES
MUST
3-plate Lever Gold Wristlet
Watches in all the new de-
signs from £6/6/- upwards.
15 years’ guarantee with each:
Watches must rise in prices greatly, and soon.
WHY ?
Because the Federal Government through the
Customs House are profiteering scandalously. As
monopolists they have jumped the Customs duty
on Watches nearly double: to be exact, from 25
per cent, ad val. to 42-i per cent, ad val.
Then, as gold is at a premium of 50 per cent,
in Europe, and costs of making have doubled
and the duty has to be paid on the greatly
increased cost, it is obvious that Watches
after Christmas will be —must be—very much
higher in prices.
Fortunately we have many hundreds that came
in prior to rise, and so we are able to sell
most lines at practically ONE-HALF of what
they will be next year.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 # 25 Hunter Street.
BMBTMWillMlil.lflifmiiMl
THE. WORLDS
yjm best value
HOHHi-CKStS’HORROtKSF.S'HCmnoCK.'SfS'MORROfHSP 1


GENUINE
NVlMlf///
•y.
BILLIARD &SNOOKE
ifiK
a
mtittiuttt
play they hre resilient faultless in running— true to angle and of perfect balance
Far and awav superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Si 2 “: Ifin. lfin. 2in. 2,iin.
17/3 21/- 25/- 32/6 set
(Postage on One Set-N.S.W., Sd.; Other States, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALLS
Sizes: If i n . 1 3 in. 2in. 2Ain.
£6/6|- £7/7/- £B/8/- £ll/11/-set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Bails).
•Sole Australasian Distributors
arc
Headquarters— Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
All y Address
by the Author
H. Ciav Glover Co. Inc..
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
PmidentSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2 070 000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. . £4l 000 000
Annual Income nearly £6*ooo^ooo
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
IT. IV. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
BOSTOCK’S BLACK LIQUID
SUEDE DRESSING
keeps shoeware soft, does not lay down the nap
and maintains their original perfect black.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, |>td., Sydney.
kLV'i, % S
m
“Just as though the singer
came into your home.”
The NEW EDISON
re-creates music
The, New Edison is certainly the inspiration of
genius. It literally Re-Creates the perform-
ances of noted vocal or instrumental artists
even the most captious critic cannot detect
the difference.
Imagine a New Edison in your home-on a summer’s
e\ ening after a tiresome da> —lounging in comfort, you
can hear, just as your whim inclines, the world’s greatest
artists as naturally as if they stepped into the room in
response to your invitation.
H you like good music-not paltry imitation-you should know
all about the New Edason. We’ll be glad to send you literature
post free. Write for it to-day. literature,
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
/• • , ■■■ „ ‘V ■ • . '■ v
' “• > mm
§S#*T%
-
.. ■ 1 1 i ■■■■■
/. ' m
The AMIS goes to New Guinea
Di\ Campbell Brown. Leader of the Commonwealth Scientific Expedition
which recently left Sydney for New Guinea, chose the “AMIS” single-
cylinder marine-type engine for his power-yacht Wattle on account of the
low fuel consumption.
The cruising range required was 2000 miles without replenishment of oil fuel.
The light weight, strength and reliability were features which decided in
favor of the “Amis.”
Burns Crude Oil or Kerosene at remarkably low running cost.
In Stock 6to 35 H.P. Send for further particulars to
NELSON (& ROBERTSON,
Oil Engine Department, 15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.


The Real Remedy for
Backache and Kidney Troubles,
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
Your Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for the back-
ache and kidneys have
given me such good re-
sults that i I cannot
hesitate to write and
tell you about their
health-giving proper-
ties. I have taken
only one bottle and
they acted like magic.
I recommend Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills to any-
one suffering from
backache and kidney
trouble, for I am surt
that they will cure
them, and once they
have used them they
will always keep a
bottle in' the house
to protect themselves
ag'ainst backache and
kidney complaints.
Yours very sincerely,
(Mrs.) M. TOOHEY.
Moira,
Grosvenor Street,
Neutral Bay.
liP,
©
m
m
Mrs . M. TOO HEY (from a photo).
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you feel that your kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your run-down
feeling begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble,
because as soon as your kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for backache and kidney trouble relieve the worst cases,
because they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the matter,
clean out the kidneys, and make them filter out all the poisonous waste mattersi
and uric acids that lodge in the joints and muscles, causing rheumatism. They'
soothe and heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They are a unique! remedy,
entirely different from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else to compare
with them. No matter how old you are, or how long you have suffered, the very
principle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically impossible to take
them into the human system without obtaining results. Dr. Gin Pills,
price 1/6 and 2/6.
D* Sheldon’s
51
BANISHES
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND UR I NARY TROUBLES.
HZpM
fill} Us
Canno
Cleans 1
ILegula
British
Aek for ONOTQ INK
lajh.
elf*
urc
all Pen*
said tfie step draws
lidEter- Goiorfflome!
%
His day’s work done-
Up smokes his <G£D>
A sweet,cooPsmoke, from parch and tongue-bite free.
A
m
Many Popular Shapes.
the perfect
pipe.
Sold Everywhere
Vision.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OIIIE wrote of sunshine, how it warmed
Tne white old corners of the world;
Of deserts where tiie mirage charmed
Till death unto its slaves it hurled ;
She wove in legends every one
Of her gold thoughts, with plus ot sun.
She wrote of red hibiscus flowers,
Of temples at the jungle's rim;
She wrote of blazing noontide hours,
Of crocodiles that brownly swim
In fecund waters, ripe with heat;
Of tropic fruitage, rotten-sweet.
She wrote of miles of open plain.
Where there was never plume ot shade;
She paused to dream, then sang again
Of dead upon a great roof laid,
Where the bald condor waxed so bold
He would not let the limbs grow cold.
She wrote of reefs of coralspun
From seas that were a blaze of light,
Even at dusk they held the sun,
Its memories were still so bright;
And here and there a black-finned shark
Was tipped with phosphorus in the dark.
She wrote of golden butterflies,
And throbbing nights with burning stars.
Of flaring down the skies,
Of flaming worlds and sparks of stars.
And all her narrow days were spent
In a tall, sunless tenement!
The greasy walls that could not coop
The soul of her were foul and drear;
The hallways smelled of soot and soup,
Of ill-cooked meals and long-spilled beer,
And frowsy was the sleep-filled air
That crowded all the dingy stair.
Her window showed a land of tiles,
Of chimney-stacks and creeping cats,
Of grassless back-yards, miles on miles
Of smoky streets and shuttered flats;
Because of hoardings frowning high
She could not even see the sky.
She wrote of love —of Anthony,
Who tnet his Serpent mouth to mouth ;
Of midnight trysting by the sea,
Of secret gardens in the South ;
She wrote of how a swart hand prest
The folded ivory of a breast.
She wrote of maidens in a tower,
Of lovers in the court beneath;
She wrote the splendid, urging power
Of that one thing more strong than death ;
She wrote of all the joys revealed
To women brave enough to yield.
She wrote of moons of, mystery.
Of lily pools and croaking frogs;
Of broken boughs of cherry-tree.
The clicking of the mousmee’s clogs—
So well she limned them in her gloom
Their tinkling laughter filled the room!
She drew the silken coverlid
From queens among the pillows white;
Stairways discreet and doorways hid
She bared to passion and to night,
And struck a trembling scarlet note
Of kisses on a pulsing throat.
She never spoke to any man —
A cripple on her bed she lay,
For life had placed on her a ban
And she must bear it day by day.
She painted sunshine she had missed.
And died a virgin and unkissed.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Seductive Susan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ABOUT the hour of noon, that eminent
ornament of Change Alley, a man
well and favorably known and re-
puted in Throgmorton and Lombard streets,
Mr. Isaac Golightly, came to the great gate
of St. Catherine’s Dock, hard by the grey
and ancient Tower of London. Here his
progress was barred by a red-coated sentry.
“But I have business aboard the Hilda,
my man,” expostulated Mr. Golightly. “I
am one of the owners —Golightly and Spar-
row, you know. Pray stand aside.”
“If so be ye pushes in, zur, I pushes me
bay’nit into y’r belly. Zee! ’Tes ag’in
orders. So be ye’ve business, I’ll call th’
sergeant o’ th’ guard, an’ he’ll attend to ye.”
Mr. Golightly did not like the look of
the three-cornered bayonet, nor did the
bucolic stolidity of the uniformed rustic who
opposed his entrance give him any reason
to doubt that the latter would assuredly,
probe his vitals with that weapon should he
persist in making his way through the
entrance to the dockyard. With as much
dignity as he could muster, and with the
redness of his countenance a little tinged
with purple, he awaited the sergeant of the
guard, whom the sentry summoned by means
of two quick blasts upon a shrill whistle.
“Cap’n Hawkins ye want, sir, is it?”
asked the sergeant. “An’ y’r name and busi-
ness? I’ll send aboard for him.”
Mr. Golightly, suffering a sense of out-
rageous wrong, but choking it down as best
he might, gave the sergeant his name, and
the name of his firm, and told a lie as to
his business with the brig’s commander
when he stated that it was connected with
the question of supplies for the voyage. Pre-
sently he experienced some small measure
of satisfaction when the captain came hurry-
ing to the gate, full of apologies for his
detention. But the apple-faced sentry gave
little sign of being impressed, and resumed
his march without .so much as a glance at
the Common Councillor of the City of Lon-
don as .he passed into the dockyard. Such,
reflected Mr. Golightly a little bitterly, was
fame and wide credit!
Over a glass of sherry and a biscuit in
the great cabin of the Hilda, Mr. Golightly
diplomatically enlightened Captain Hawkins
as to the reason for his visit to the convict
transport.
“You see, my good Hawkins, there was no
possible doubt as to the girl’s having appro-
priated Mrs. Golightly’s necklace —a very
valuable ornament presented to her by the
Chandlers’ Company in recognition of my--
ah—efforts on the company’s behalf in their
suit against the Tanners over some freehold
property in Ironmongers-lane. No doubt
whatever. And there was every likelihood
that the unhappy creature would suffer
death —especially as the case was tried by
the Recorder, Sir John Fullerton, who is
notoriously a .hanging Judge. My wife not-
withstanding—she was al| for the execution
of the young person—l spoke very earnestly
on her behalf, and I think that I may claim
credit for the jury’s recommendation to
mercy, and for having savqd her from the gal-
lows. At some cost to myself. Of domestic
peace—you understand? It seems that my
wife was a little jealous—a little suspicious
that I had taken an undue interest in the
young woman. Quite groundless, of course.
Absolutely unworthy suspicions. A pleasant
voyage to New South Wales, Captain!
As Mr. Golightly held up his glass, that
astute mariner Nathaniel Hawkins fancied
that his owner’s left eyelid fluttered, but he
hastened to assure that important person-
age of his agreement with him as to the
undoubted groundlessness of such suspicions.
“So ye’d like to see her, sir? Well, .’tis
easy enough. A word to Ensign Cumming,
and we’ll be admitted to the ’tween decks.
I can get ye his permission. Will ye follow
me, sir? She’s very handsome, I think ye
said? Dark eyes, fine hair, small hands and
feet —a trim figure? I think I’ve noticed
her. This way, if you please, Mr. Golightly.
Mind the deck beams.”
They went out upon the quarter-deck and
there encountered the officer commanding
the guard that was to escort the Hilda’s
frail, and mostly unfair, passengers to the
Antipodes—a callow youth with a good con-
ceit of himself. Talking with Ensign Cum-
ming was burly Dr. Hastings, surgeon-
superintendent of the transport. Captain
Hawkins introduced the two gentlemen to
Mr. Golightly and explained his mission.
Both expressed themselves as being agree-
able to the visit of the city merchant to
what Mr. Cumming facetiously alluded to
as the doctor’s harem.
So they went down the main hatch, and
came to the prison quarters. The sight of
the young sentry at the entrance, so intent
upon a flirtation, which he carried on through
the wooden bars, that he did not hear the
approach of the party as they came down
the ladder, moved the surgeon to wrath,
“Damme, sir, what d’ye mean?” He
clapped the astonished sentry on the
shoulder. “Look at- this, Cumming—this
won’t do. ’Twon’t do at all! Get back, you
hussy,” he shouted to the woman in the dim
interior. “Ye’ll suffer for it, my lass, if
ye go in for this sort of thing.”
Mr. Cumming murmured some mild rebuke
to the susceptible sentry, whilst Dr. Hast-
ings unlocked the stout oaken door. He stood
on the threshold of the prison and bellowed
a name.
“Susan Halliday !”
The woman who had been making love
to the sentry started and turned. She dropped
a demure curtsey and came forward. .
“Oh, you’re the one, are you?” said the
surgeon gruffly. “See here, my lass —you let
the soldiers alone. Damme, yes —let ’em
alone! Do you want to get the man two
dozen? Come out here !”
Young Mr. Cumming smirked his approval
of her. The captain’s face lit up as he
looked greedily at the girl. And Mr. Go-
lightly turned a deeper red. Only the doctor
surveyed her dispassionately and with grim
disapproval, shaking his head and grunting
enigmatically as she came out into the light
from the dim cavern behind, gloomily lit by
two horn lanterns hanging from the low
deck-beams.
The girl was very beautiful, and had that
curious sexual attractiveness which so . fre-
quently distinguishes the compulsorily virtu-
ous woman as the successful courtesan. She
was of the sort that turns young men’s
heads, and causes old ones to make grotesque
fools of themselves. Dark-haired and dark-
eyed and well-eomplexioned, full bosomed
and strong, and with a gracefulness that even
the clumsy prison clothing, ill-fitting and
corsetless, could not mar, she looked at them
with a little questioning smile as she came
forward.
Behind her was the dim perspective of the
’tween-deck’s prison, filled with the strange
medley of femininity—old and sexless hags,
lusty viragoes, decent matrons and as yet
innocent young girls—which went to make
up the convict complement of any average
female transport' in the early years of the
nineteenth century. A smell of new calico
underclothing, of cheap scent, of two or
three suckling babies, of food and of soap-
suds mingled with the tar-and-bilgewater
odor of the ship’s interior.
The daylight dazzled her a little, and it
was a moment or two before she recognised
Mr. Golightly. Then she laughed audaciously,
and pointed at him a slim forefinger.
“Oh, you old fool!” she cried mockingly.
“Oh, la,'la, la- — do go home to the mistress.
Oh. do —you silly old man. ’Tis your own
little fairy-duck tells you to!”
The gallant alderman grew purple. He
gasped something inarticulate, and blindly
sought the ladder—with the result that his
foot slipped, and he fell on the deck, bumping
his nose so that it bled. With great difficulty
the soldier and the sailor restrained their
mirth as they helped him to his feet.
“Back inside, ye trull!” exclaimed the sur-
geon, as he took her by the arm, and forced
her roughly into the dark prison, whence
emerged a din of laughter and of giggles.
“Good girl. Sue,” screamed a shrill voice,
“ye’ve put th’ old in his place.
Good girl!”
As they assisted the discomfited Mr. Go-
lightly to the upper-deck, Captain Hawkins
and Ensign Cumming, each independently of
and inaudible to the other, muttered below
his breath : “She’ll do for me!”
* • * *
Whenever Dr. Hastings came to Sydney
during the term of office of Governor Mac-
quarie, he was always sure of a warm wel-
come and a comfortable bedroom at Govern-
ment House. He and Macquarie were much
of an age, and had been members of the same
regimental messes in both North America and
India, long before his Excellency had at-
tained Uo the dignity of field-rank or the
doctor had undertaken the supervision of con-
vict transports.
(Continued on next page.)


1
Cvtrj
TrU,
Storj
m
&
Too Young to Feel
So Old!
Don t let that bad back make you old! Get back your
health and keep it. You can detect kidney weakness
in its early stages, from the morning lameness, dull
backache, dizzy spells, nervousness and kidney irregu-
lari ties. Taken early, a short treatment with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will usually correct it. Kidney
Practise moderaf-inn 1 u weakness is too often brought on by irregular habits,
practise moderation. Keep regular hours. Take regular exercise. Cut out useless worrying Avoid
and nerves makef work®’ ° ver ' W ° rkln « l and f other excesses. A perfect balance of brain, muscles
at anv It. n 38 ."T , & f P l^- , You en life, radiate good cheer, and feel young
at any age. Doans have helped thousands. Here are some local cases'-
A MAN’S CASE. *
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, sen., 93 Bourke Street, Redfern,
* Jtney, sajs. I suffered for over forty years from kidney
cisease. had dreadful attacks, and had to stay in bed for
f 1 suff ? red intense agony with my back,
Min i ? .° f , pound8 * on doctors and medicines, but
take Boonß W^ at r/T A friend of “ine advised me to
Snce?n^L B fh kaChe Sidney Fills, so I got som e, and com _
not have C - are fu y following the directions. I did
without simcess H m em > having tried so many remedies
witnout success. However, Doan’s Backache Kidnev Pills
proved the exception. They cured me, and I cannot ± sav
benefit 1 h° praise of , these wonderful pills. I hope many wiil
Piflfa t b riar y Shofilfi 1 n nCe ’ a £ d sive Doan’s Backache Kidney
to ff i V e fuller mrfimi s ? fferer call on me I shall be pleased
give lullei paiticulars of my thorough cure.”
Kidn^PiSrnnvf/me^ I’'i 1 ’'i Adral . lams says '‘‘Doan’s Backache
,rouble — nine
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
****"•, St °Z’ , 19 Y incen t Street, Balmain,
£>yaney, says.— 1 was suddenly seized with «Wn
pains across the small of my back. At first I thought they
would soon go away, but this was not the case • they got worse
instead of better, and I soon found I was suffering so acTitelv
that when I stooped or moved quickly I could scarcely help
screaming out. Dizzy attacks began to trouble me and I
always felt tired and languid, having no energy for anything
My rest at night was disturbed, as I could not He n one
position for any length of time on account of the constant pS
Nothing I took did me anv good but at W t .An .
Backache Kidney Pills, and they acted splendidly! four bottfes
restoring me to perfect health. Several years have elapsed
since my cure, but I have had no return of my old compSnt
so I feel safe in saying lam cured for good ” 1 ’
Mrs Briggs confirms the above four years later •— “T
have had no reason to« alter my good opinion of
Backache Kidney Pills. They permlnently P C ured me and I
strongly recommend them to other sufferers” ’ d 1
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Pricfe 2/0 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
A few evenings after the brig Hilda’s
arrival m Port Jackson, and when her un-
willing passengers had been disposed of
according to the quaint usage of the period—
having either been selected as housekeepers
of bachelor establishments, or sent to tfie
hactory at Parramatta—Dr. Hastings sat
with Macquarie in his study after dinner,
lheir chairs were drawn up in front of a
bright fire for it was June*, and midwinter—
and the comfortable ingredients of a bowl
of punch stood conveniently near at hand.
Ihe doctor smoked a long churchwarden pipe.
111 t e Jl ye what, General,” he was saying,
this business of conducting ladies round the
world is almost too much for your humble
servant. I vow and declare that I’d sooner
make three voyages in charge of the worst
cut-throats and villains of our own sex than
one with females. Ye’ve no* idea. They are
the Very Devil, sir—the Very Devil.”
‘At any rate, my dear Hastings,” smilingly
returned Macquarie, “you have been verv
successful with the Hilda’s prisoners. Only
one death and five births! Dear me, I re-
gard you as a most valuable person, in this
capacity. These little strangers, whom you
il ave r l , int . roduced . in suc h excellent fettle to
-territory, will, no doubt, make good and
useful Australians. I think the Board of
transport should make some special recogni-
tion ot your zeal and care in its service. Thev
entrust you with 140 frail creatures for safe
delivery here, and—pardon *my little joke—
you make safe delivery of four more! Ex-
cellent, my dear Hastings—ha, ha !—excel-
lent!
,P r ; Hastings merely grunted. He was
still too sore from the recollection of his ex-
periences with Susan Ilalliday to rejoice over
the mainly successful issue of the voyage
Macquarie went on:
. By-the-way, I have had two letters to-
d;'V wrth regard to th e voyage of the Hilda,
which I would like you to read. You may
be well able to qnlighten me on the subject
matter of them, and —-er—guide my judgment
m dealing with the complaints they contain
dust glance over them, will you, Doctor, and
tell me what you think. Here they are.
Ibis is from Captain Hawkins—a rather
quaint style, but very earnest.”
The doctor took the letter, and held its
crabbed writing to the light.
‘Looks as though a spider had crawled
out of an inkpot, he growled and read :
Your Exlenzy, I have the honor to lay before
of F^fJP°wn- ynt c°nsarning ye unseemly Behavour
ot Ensign William Cumming during ve Vyage of ve
bngge Hilda to Port Jackson under my Command
wh as just come to an end. I doe hoan th’t for vp
honor of ye Sarvice to wh. Mr. Cumming belongs
Lntio XlenZy if 11 - be plesed t 0 Censure th’t youfg
gentl ema n. During ye whole Vyage from ye time of
getting cl ere of ye Channel Mr. Cumming did engage
himself m Trifling with a Young Female a convicted
nJcfThnt a n oa n d a f e Brigge ’ 1 have Reason to sus-
pect that he hadde ye woman in his Cabine on more
him" fn°r lie hiJ )C ni lS i" n ' a Y p ? n “F expostulating with
telT ? 111 Conduct he was so Impartnint as to
' !" e *’! s ° >’ e D evil. I neede not point out
to y r Exlenzy that such Conduct is prejuditial to
a Transport or that it sets a bad Example
not only to ye Souldiers but also to ye Crewe. I
ohu 6 I the . l Honor . t ? *>e. SR, with Great Respect, y’r
obd. umble sarvmt— Nathaniel Hawkins. J
“H’m,” commented the doctor. “The not
and the kettle! What’s the other one?’’
T . “Gumming versus Hawkins,” said his
Excellency drily.
To his Excellency Major-General Macquarie, C. 8.,
with vm.v ~i r ’ —T, 1 have the honor to lay a complaint
vith your Excellency regarding the undue iannliar-
HM m wfa St + ed ' by 9 ap t ain Hawkins, commander of
li.M. hired transport Hilda, towards a young female
P I ' I ' s “ ler , ° n board that vessel during her recently
terminated voyage tp New South Wales, when I had
tne honor to command the military guard on board.
1 have reason to believe that, on several occasions,
Mr. Hawkins entertained this person in his private
on thp J,. f nee A, hal ' dly point out that such conduct
nrpi,mi P - i* the ™ aster of a Transport is extremely
prejudicial to good order and discipline, or that
the navigation of the ship is likely to suffer when
the person most concerned with it devotes his time
to such unworthy pursuits. I address your Excel-
lency solely from a sense of duty, and trust you may
be pleased to signify to Captain Hawkins the dis-
pleasure which your Excellency must experience upon
the receipt of such information. I have the honor
Ensftn, 73’rd y Regt Dt servant - WM '
“ Well, the d—cl young pup !” exclaimed the
aoctor. lhe pair of specious humbugs ! God
my sou lThe infernal impudence !”
Well, what do you think?” laughed the
Governor. “Had I better take no notice of
them, beyond a formal acknowledgment?”
Oh, certainly, certainly, my dear Mac-
quarie—take no notice. An old fool and a
young ass, jealous of the favors of a d—d
hailot; That’s all it is. That girl has
given me more trouble in the last live months
than any other prisoner, man or woman,
that Ive ever brought to the colony. She
can get over most men—she has a way with
her. Damme, I believe if I’d been a little
younger she d have got over me, too. Slie r d
outrage a St. Anthony!”
“Dear me!” Macquarie smiled at his
triend s rueful countenance and the heat of
his language. “A formidable addition to
Hl® r . a . cs ° £ Sirens we already possess.
W hat is the name of this Circe, my dear
Hastings? Do you remember it?”
. Her name? By Heaven! ’Tis graven
in my memory, I’ll promise ye. Her name
is Susan Halliday.”
Macquarie instantly sat bolt upright in
his chair, scraping his heels on the matting
as he drew them under him. He stared at
the doctor with wide-open eyes.
. “pood Gad, sir—good Gad! Why, that
is the name of the young woman whom Mr.
Campbell engaged as a lady’s maid for my
She had the written recommendation
of Mr Alderman Golightly. Selected her
himself, upon the Hilda. There was some
competition for her, he tells me—but, of
course, my secretary had the preference.
Good Gad, Doctor —you astound me!”
The doctor roared with laughter. He
shook a finger at the Governor.
“Oh, ha, ha, ha! Have a care, Mac-
quarie, have a care! Ye’ll need to! So
she got over Campbell, did she? Be very
cautious, General— she is not above making
an attempt on you. Guard your virtue, mv
friend—be careful! Oh —ha, ha, ha!”
I shall interview her in the morning—in
your presence, Doctor. Indeed, she is a
seductive creature. I had observed that,
myself. But, in the light of what you tell
me. she is. hardly a proper person”
“Seductive! She’d seduce the Devil!”
* * * *
“If you please, your Excellency, I’m sure
Dr. Hastings will say a good word for me,
and help me to realise my happiness.”
Miss Halliday confronted the Governor
with serene confidence. Her glorious eyes
—full of innocence, full of challenge and
full of he-did-not-know-what—bewitched
Macquarie. The dark hair, swept back from
a white brow, the fineness of her complexion,
the red fulness of her lips, the supple grace
of her vigorous body, full-bosomed and strong
made him classify her mentally as a Splen-
did Creature. Which she was, and which
she knew.
By the table sat the grim and burly sur-
geon of the Hilda, fingertips together over
his waistcoat, and a severely critical look
upon his .stern face, as he contemplated the
girl from beneath knitted brows. Mac-
quarie turned to him.
“What do you say, Doctor? Shall she
marry the sergeant-major? Of course,
if he takes her to wife I can do no less
than grant her a conditional pardon. What
do you think?”
“See here, my lass, ye gave me a deal of
trouble aboard the transport. What did
ye mean by your goings-on with the cap-
tain, and Mr. Gumming, and the bos’n, and
the chief-officer? Bless my soul —ye took
toll of all the men aboard !”
( “Oh, Doctor,” she languished at him,
“they were but kind to a poor girl in dis-
tress. The same as you were yourself.”
“Ah!” said Macquarie, drily,' looking at
his friend.
“Ye baggage! Had it not been for me
ye d have ruled the ship.”
“Oh, Doctor, I'm sure you have a kind
heart ’Twas only your goodness made that
dreadful voyage possible.”
“Indeed, Doctor !” murmured the Governor.
He turned to the girl.
“Now, my good girl, how long have you
known the sergeant-major?”
“But three days, your Excellency. ’Twas,”
she dropped her eyes modestly, and smiled —
’twas love at first sight, if you please, sir.”
, i l ] h l”. S runt ed Dr. Hastings. “Another
d—d fool!”
“Is the sergeant-major here?” asked Mac-
quarie, after a pause.
• , ur Honor pleases—he is waiting out-
side. May I call him in? He will speak
for me.”
The Governor tinkled his little table-bell,
and the secretary appeared. Mr. Campbell
smiled when he saw Susan. The doctor
chuckled.
. “Just see if Sergeant-Major McGillicuddy
is outside, will you, Mr. Campbell ?”
Yes, your Excellency.” Mr. Campbell
carried himself with unusual jauntiness. In
a minute or so he ushered in the sergeant-
major a tall, red-headed, raw-boned n.c.o. of
the Highland Light Infantry.
“Good morning, S’arnt-Major,” said Mac-
quarie, with a twinkle in his eye, as he
acknowledged the soldierly warrior’s salute.
Ihe sergeant-major stood stifflv to attention.
ne yer so much as looking at Susan.
S arnt-Major,” the Governor said seri-
ously, “I understand that you have an
application to make to me—that you wish
to marry this young woman?”
“’Tis so. y’r honor—by y’r honor’s leave.”
Ihe lady is said to be a flirt!”
?° Air-rtin’ when she’s Mistress
M'cGillicuddy,” said the sergeant-major
grimly. &
Why, my man, how’ll ye stop her? ’Tis
“ature,’’ interposed the doctor.
\V 1’ yon, sir-r!” he said simply. He
slowly extended his great arm, at the end of
which was a clenched fist like a small leg of
mutton. “W i' yon, sir-r!” he said simply,
-tie turned to the Governor. “Mister-r Mac-
qUar-r-rie,” he birred, “Ah’m thinkin’ ’tis
time Ah wuz weddit. Man an’ boy, Ah’ve
been i th’ regiment twa-an’-twenty year, an’
Ah ve no bin marrit afore. Ah’ll engage, if
y r honor will gi’ me per-r-mission for to tak’
yon bit lassie, tae pit th’ sense o’ discipline
intil th’ cr-r-eature.”
“And will you love, honor and obey the
seigeant-major !” Macquarie asked kindly,
turning to the girl.
But she was dumb. She trembled a little,
and her fingers twitched. Her eyes were cast
down, and a rosy flush had come oyer the
handsome face.
“By God, Macquarie,” whispered the doc-
tor, I think I should. I believe she’s met
her match. At any rate, ’twill save many a
poor victim, if ye give her to him.”
. think so > too,” said Macquarie, as he
picked UP a pen. “And, my dear Hastings,”
he added in a lower tone, “and what of the
future ot the race, sir, the future of the
race!
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Sinister.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A dreadful, monotonous, throbbing drum,
Beating afar on the still, hot night,
When the world is hushed and the world is
dumb,
And the stars in the heavens are pale
with fright;
Black banks of thunder-clouds piled on high,
And a lightning flash like a serpent’s
tongue,
The leaden atmosphere fierce and dry
And the soul of a man is wrung!
A wild, level sea with the threads of foam
I hrashed by the sighs of the coming gale ;
A molten sun in the sky’s dark dome
Where the damned as seagulls wail;
A long ciy in the gloom which strives
Against the light of the coming day ;
The glint of a fire on the threat of knives
And the soul of a man is grey!
A handful of whirling leaves and dust;
The sob of the wind in an empty place ;
The sharp teeth of the hungry rust
Gnawing iron to cotten lace;
The solemn cry of an evil bell,
With steady persistence tolled and tolled ;
The foetid breath of a slimy well
And the soul of a man is old!
But a rose glows and a breeze blows ,
And a small pink baby chuckles and crows
And the birds sing and red lips cling,
And the soul of a man dares anything!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


.
.
■ ■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIWCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellmgrton.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
MALTED
IH m>
ra
sSiss**
k-HS
is needed.
k
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). Keeps 1
for years and never
becomes stale or loses !
any of its admirable j
qualities. It is made]
in a moment, any- 1
where. Only water/
In hot climates it
invaluable.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Companyjjmiied
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A,
OUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S| PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
shohld read tlie British Australasian,
6d weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit trie
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.L.,
where • they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
n
ii
'
■■■' *
m.
is the
Razor for Me!”
This noted Razor is no new inven-
tion —thousands are sold annually.
The ‘'Plum” requires hut little strop-
ping', as its finely-tempered edge keeps
keen against the stiffest beard, and
gives just that smooth, velvety shave
which . every man appreciates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case ••••• 257-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle.. 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present)
“Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 & 10/6
“Plum” Stop Dressing* —• 1/2
All the above Post Free.
Send jor
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
he
%
i
A
Si
m
m
Think While
You are
Choosing
It is just as easy to
buy the best braces
as it is an ordinary
pair of braces.
Just remember the
name “Shirley
President” Braces,
look for that name
on the buckles, and
bodily comfort is
yours.
You do not have to become used to tins brace, because it adjusts
itself to your figure and becomes used to you.
Shirley President Braces serve the wearer.
Guaranteed by the Makers.
For Sale By Good Dealers Everywhere.
Ccmftanf/
Shirley, Mass., USA. . Established in 1870.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRQ PTY., LTD.,
50 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
BEEGHftfli’S PILLS
the famous digestive medicine, have proved during three generations,
to be an unfailing friend to dyspeptic sufferers. They have brought
relief to men and women in all parts of the world for more than
seventy years, This is so unique a record that due importance should
be attached to its real meaning. This may be expressed in the one
word—Satisfaction. The people who have taken this medicine have
been satisfied with the results which have followed. Only in this way
can the continuous demand be explained. An important point arises
here. A medicine which has given such long-continued satisfaction to
those who have taken it must have properties of remarkable reliability.
And this consideration should prove of the utmost encouragement to
those who have yet to try Beecham’s Pills for the first time.
They have given satisfaction —general satisfaction —after the most
thorough test ; why should they not give the same to you ? If then,
you suffer in any way from the distressing troubles arising from
impaired digestion, sluggish liver and irregular action of the bowels—
seek the aid of this great remedy at once. Give Beecham’s Pills a
fair trial. They will not disappoint you. They will relieve and remove
your digestive troubles and abundantly assist you in every way to
SKFEGURRD YOUR HERLTH.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10Jd., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
lug of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all. , „
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 16/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 5/- and upwards. Cards of Tarift
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will'Quote you price for it.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life —to think out
schemes which will bring success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigue. Headache, Las-
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head-
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills* the
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousands .
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meals. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dosa—Small Price,
CARTER'S
■ ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
r
GENUINE must
bear signature
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
c-in
Safe—Accurate—Compact
The Remington Model 51 Automatic
Pistol protects YOU against acci-
dental discharge.
It is impossible to fire
a cartridge without
simultaneously grasp-
ing the stock and
pressing the trigger. Two
other safety devices insure
against accident.
for.Shootin*sßi§hi
SPECIFICATIONS ali b e r .3801
length, 6 5/8 in.; thickness, 9/10 in.;
weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish, dull
black; magazine holds seven cartridges,
one extra cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless automatic
standard metal cased or soft pointed,
the same cartridge as is used in other
Automatic * Pistols t,of this
caliber./^
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY,'Inc.
D. D. Bryant, P. 0. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
DreadnoughfWire Strainer
12/6
each
(Patented)
Thousands in Use.
12/6
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
, lightness and excellence of ths
dnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


//
KRr
OF THE
3
0
SWANS k T -»
3fie Tamovs
SCHEBLtRV
For All Garage Necessaries.
fie *3%mbs
S^CHEBLEP^
Model “R” Car Type.
Prices from £5/10/-
each.
Swan Phosphor Bronze.
Unequalled for tough-
ness and close grain.
Every stick guaran-
teed. Sizes: f to 2
Solid. 1 x i to 4in x
2in. Cored., 2/10 per lb.
White Bearing Metal, “1.C.E.,” 5/3 lb.
“No. 11 Nickel Hardened,” 7/3 lb.
“5.A.E.,” 5/- lb. “Ibis,”. 3/6 lb.
Petrol and Oil Squirts, 7/6, 10/6, 15/-
eaeh. Also Grease Guns, 10/6, 16/6,
18/6, 21/- each.
English Piston Cast-
ings. With elon-
gated Gudgeon Pin
Boss 56mm. to
10Tinm. dia, 8/-and
10/6 each.
i i
English Piston
Ring Castings,
53mm. to 135 mm.
4/3 to !)/!) each.
Ratliator anti Petrol
Tank fillers, i'or 89
different ears, from
iin., 1/3, 1/6, 1/9,
2/-, 3/-, 5/9 each.
Model “D,” Marine or
Stationary Type.
Prices from 67/6 each.
“5.R.8.” Steel
Ball Races, cor-
rect in design.
All sizes in single
and double row,
JLowest Prices.
Quality Guaranteed.
Service Unsurpassed.
■—
lilll
Kaybestos Brake
noted for uniformity of qual-
ity and reliability. Full list
on request.
Swan’s Extra Air Cocks.
Favorably known from the
Fen insula to the Eeeuwin. fin.
18/6, Jin. 22/- Complete with
all connections and hose.
Mechanical Motor Horns.
A sure road clearer,, 37/6
each.
.1 br
'■
pe
5«l
sir
THE
OF
o
o
CD
r--~
oJ(ie
VSCHEBLER/
Model “AJL,” Single-
cylinder Motor-cycle
type. Prices from 55/-
each.
□
n
Sis
Q
°C3
Q
031 SP
□
1
D
o O O (R) o o O
0
(2
000 o © o o©o
Some of our Stock of Copper and Asbestos Washers.
“C. and A.” Washers, in round or oval, from id. each.
Cylinder Head Gaskets for Ford, Hudson, Kssex, Dodge, Overland, Hup..
Maxwell, etc., from 8/6 to 10/- each.
<v* vir
hU
THE
OF
oJde
CHE
£7/90VP*
Model “
cycle
twins.
E Motor-
ior
big
from 75/-
<*SJC-
Valve Forgings,
3 p.e. Nickel
Steel. Sizes from
lin. head to Sin.
head, 1/4, 1/6,
1/8 to 6/- each.
The Celebrated
Kotherham
Grease Cups,
Hex. pattern,
1/3, 3/-, 3/- ea.
Hi
The Celebrated
Rotherham
Grease Cups,
Knurled pattern.,
1/1, 1/6, 1/9, 2/-
IN-
| PIECE
NO
PISTON
RING
Inland RingSj keep
in the gas, keep out
the oil. They’ve
made good every-
where, 6/9 each up
to 3jin. dia.
Mm. and fractional
sizes in stock also.
The C'elebrat
Rotherham
Petrol or
Vacuum Tank
Cocks, 3/6
The Celebrated
Rotherham
Priming Cocks,
3/3 each.
British Magnetos, 4-cylinder, £l9.
Radiator Neverleak, small 3/-; large 4/6 tin.
Callipers, Sin., 3/-; 4in., 3/9; 6in., 4/9 each.
Dividers, Sin., 5/3; 4in., 5/6; 6in., 6/3 each.
“Kasenit” for case hardening, 4/- ib.
The Celebrated
Rotherham
Dash-hoard Oil
indicators, 10/-
eaeh.
A FEW MORE PRICES THAT MAY BE INTERESTING
Spring- Washers, from Jin. to 2in., 4d., 5d., 6d., 7d., Bd., l/~ dozen.
Split Pins, all sizes. Prices from 1/6 to 3/6 gross. In tins, 100 assorted,
1/6 tin.
Copper Brake Lining Rivets, with Counter Sunk heads, 3/9 per lb.
Best English White Felt, jin., 5-16 in., fin., Jin., thick, 15/- per lb.
Spark Plugs. Ask for our Comprehensive Catalogue, which fully
explains the why and the wherefore. Free with pleasure.
Twist Drills, in Straight Shanks, from l-32in. to Jin., increasing by
l-64ths.
Twist Drills in Bit Stock Shanks, from l-16in. to lin., increasing by
l-32nds.
Twist Drills, in Taper Shank, from 3-32 in. to 39/64in., increasing by
l-64ths.
Soldering Irons, lib. to 31b. weight, 1/6 to 10/6 each.
Cold Chisels, 6 x Jin.. iOd.; 7 x Jin., 1/-; 8 x Jin., 1/3 each.
Boyce Moto-meter. Tells yon when your engine is overheating, Ford
Special, 28/9; Universal Model, 48/-; Standard Model, 67/6 each.
Oil Cans, 1 pint, 4/3; 3 pint, 5/3; 1 pint, 6/- each.
Shifting Spanners, in all sizes and breeds, from 1/- each for a 6in. to
12/6 for 12in.
Mascots—
Kookaburra, 20/-; Aeroplane, 25/-; Kangaroo, 21/-; Boomerang, 8/6 each.
Write us for what you want —to-day. You’ll be pleased with our treatment. We thoroughly know your requirements—that’s why we style ourselves
“THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.
99
/v
OF THE
.fl-
U Q
- r M l tn
OF THE
LU S
WM
r,
SCHF E!L i R
s
r--
|| Y 0
■ ■ :
f'
O
tow 1
•'■:**■>• JlllS. K Mfetftfe -f 0 -
. \'hi"
cr'“- M toxizz
SWANS LIMITED.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
£7Sie. ©tf amous"
ojftie famous
. SCHEBLER .
Model “B.” Two-cycle Type.
Prices from 55/- each.
M
otor-car and High-speed Marine Type.
Prices from £5/5/- each.
