

DE'WjSk.XS 7 S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. <3r. WA.TZS.mrS «*£ 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Ken. t Street:, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N'S V' MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
~V4> St-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
HJKJHK
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
liilililiuiiiit.
[{jillliitniummiuiti
frj/tdres<3t 2IS-I7Sv/anston Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
29 King St.,Hevicastle. st,& 159 George St.,'West, Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000
Joseph W.N/1/,
Gene i
‘Phone City 932 5
?ral Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
JHKJHK
Mad and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
V/ h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS,
R. L. Scrutton 8 Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
<r-
&
Nothiiio
to Arcuc
About!
6 BN C
\re the Best
o
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN'S
k
unJket?
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
WOLFEC
SCrtNAPft)
. .
mi
ia#^:
til
iHSW
—prevents Iron Roofs from rusting.
The Tramway Department has purchased hundreds of gallons of Pabeo Paint—
this is an extract from one of their letters to us:—
“With regard to the inquiry of your Mr. Hiscox, I beg
to advise you that we have used ‘Pabeo’ Paint, and given
it a severe test, which shows it to be a paint of very good
quality.”
The Paraffine Companies Inc., (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
Q
MJ
>“
■ ■ 1
UUI
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings . Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Arthur
6 Q
MACHINERY.
SYDNEY.
The “Robey” Patent Uniflow Engine
Represents the LAST WORD in Steam Engine design, and gives
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMY IN STEAM CONSUMPTION with
SIMPLICITY OF CONSTRUCTION AND CONSEQUENT DOW UPKEEP COSTS.
Write us for particulars and Catalogues.
Queensland enquiries: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., LTD., 218-220 Mary Street,
Brisbane.
“A.W” “T.Y.R”
“A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHI
RTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole An
Representatives:
Gilbert I add* U Cn I til ns pitt street, Sydney.
Uliocri LOOgC 0 I/O. Lia., 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Worands Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Ktd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
by Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD., Manchester, England.
HKJH
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every ,
Prevents Decay.
JHKJHK
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2084.
Thursday, January 22, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CASSELL’S MAGAZINE
THE QUIVER
THE STORYTELLER
THE NEW MAGAZINE
ie Best Magazines for
LITTLE FOLKS
NEW SERIALS
COMMENCING
CHUMS (lOd.)
ONE SHILLING EACH.
AT ATT, BOOKSELLERS and BOOKSTALLS.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY RECIPES COLLECTED
FROM VARIOUS EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “BLACKHEAD” SECRET.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads,
oily skin, and enlarged pores.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which
will then o* cou*e “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stymol-charged water and then
dried with a towel. The offending black-
heads, of their accord, come right off
on the towel, the large oily pores imme-
diately contract and efface themselves natu-
rally. There is no squeezing, forcing or any
drastic action. The skin is left uninjured,
smooth, soft and cool. A few such treat-
ments should be taken at intervals of three
or four days thereafter in order to ensure
the permanence of the pleasing result so
quickly obtained.
GREY HAIR—HOME REMEDY.
An old-fashioned home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But,
on the other hand, there is no reason why
you should have grey hair if you do not
want it. To turn the hair back to a natural
color is really a very simple matter. One
has only to get from the chemist two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair
with*a small sponge for a few nights and
the gre'vness will gradually disappear. Ihis
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula. :
TO KILL ROOTS OF SUPERFLUOUS
HAIR.
“Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pkeininoi may be
applied directly to the objectionable "hair
growth. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to instantly remove the hair,
but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
THE REAL CAUSE OF MOST BAD
COMPLEXIONS.
“Health and Beauty.”
It is an accepted fact that no truly
beautiful complexion ever came out of jars
and bottles, and the longer one uses cos-
metics the worse the complexion becomes.
Skin, to be healthy, must breathe. It also
must expel, through the pores, its share of
the body’s effete material. Creams and
powders clog the pores, interfering both
with elimination and breathing. If more
women understood this there would be fewer
self-ruined complexions. If they would use
ordinary mercolised wax instead of cos-
metics they would have natural, healthy
complexions.
ABOUT HAIR TONICS.
“Novel Recipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some
wonderful discovery for improving the hair,
and although this paragraph may seem a
little superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe
may come as a welcome change. One thing
about it is that, it will grow hair, and also
prevent it falling out. From your chemist
get an original package of boranium, to this
add |-pint of bay rum; allow it to, stand
30 minutes, then add sufficient water to
make half-a-pint. Rub briskly into the
scalp with the finger-tips, and you will im-
mediately .experience that .dean tingling
sensation which is a sure sign ot healtny
action. *
W HENEVER
YOU SEE A SWAN, OR
A PICTURE OE A SWAN,
OR THE WORD SWAN-
THINK OF THE VERY
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN—
%
Self-filling
Safety, and
Standard.
Like the bird —it sso clean,
smooth-gliding, easy-flowing,
and lives to a good old age
Use Swan Ink.
HJKJH
m
ytssj
Prices from
1216 & 151 *
Catalogue free from tlie makers: xu c
MABIE TODD & CO., Ltd., 79 & 80, High Holborn, London, W.C.
Australasian branch (Wholesale onlyh J. A. BURKE, 255 a, George Street, Sydney.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
II any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, 'write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are Cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking p
in the Great War. . Goodpnces will l*
paid for good material. Address Mitche
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
CONTAIN no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old andEfmntion.
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption
What the Medical World says :-The>!««*£
“Proved to be as effective bactei'cidall. „® AN _
UNDOUBTEDEVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin
Sold at Chemists. Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole
Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
nn r>f 1 /fi in stamps of any provm
JUJ
utprucUMn Gtnuqef
»w»
SON
HUD
*S
The Red Page
Jacky Fisher, Admiral
- Jacky Fislier, Admiral, is entitled to brag
a bit. He was brought up' in the British
Navy, he flayed a big part in his day, his
policy at the Admiralty was highly success-
ful, and he is now 70. His book of
Memories (Hodder and Stoughton) consists
of a rambling expression of his feelings and
opinions, dictated rapidly and without re-
gard for chronological order, interspersed with
extracts from his letters. In this form one
gets a better impression of the man’s person-
ality than any biography could give. Every
page shows that there is a man behind this
book—a blunt, shrewd old egotist whose busi-
ness has-been action and who is impatient
with words. He knew men and picked good
ones for promotion.
Fisher’s standing advice for fighters was:
“Hit first; hit hard ; keep on hitting.’’ He
favored promotion for such men as Percy
Scott because he could hit the target oftenest;
it didn’t matter that he broke half the rules
of naval etiquette. Fisher would abolish
scholastic examinations for boys entering
the Navy. If they were physically fit and
seemed to have nerve, they should “have a
lecture on optics in the morning and make
a telescope in the afternoon.” The true
democratic principle, he said, is Napoleon’s
“The tools to him who can use them.”
It seemed amazing to Fisher that anyone
should believe in maintaining an aristocratic
service in a democratic State. When in
charge between 1904 and 1910 he introduced
the nucleus crew system and swept out naval
“parasites” -costing 19$ millions. For such
drastic actions he earned the nickname of
"The Mole,” whose presence is recognised by
upheavals. Long before he reached the Ad-
miralty he had warned the authorities that
“some day the Empire will go down ‘because
it is Buggins’s turn.’ ” He tried to prevent
the continuance of that policy in the Navy,
but the War Office he considered hopeless. In
an official message to Windsor Castle he con-
cluded with a riddle and its answer: “Why
is the War Office like Hell? Because it is
paved with good intentions.” And during
the Zeppelin attacks on England he declared
that the War Office was safe, the Germans
would not think of bombing it; they were,
however, trying to get the Admiralty.
In 1907 Fisher wrote to King Edward that
the only thing in the world England had to
fear was Germany. Two years later he was
accused by Von Tirpitz of having engineered
a German naval scare in England in. order
to get bigger naval estimates, to which he
replied through the German naval attache:
“Tell Tirpitz, using the immortal words of
Dr. Johnson,—‘You lie, sir, and you know
it.’ ” When Tirpitz was dismissed from his
job, Fisher wrote the following letter (being
himself then out of work, as he had resigned
over the Dardanelles affair) :
Dear old Tirps,—We both in the same boat!
What a time we’ve been colleagues, old boy 1 How-
ever, we did you in the eye over the battle-cruisers,
and I know you’ve said you’ll never forgive me for
it when bang went the Blucher and Von Spee and
all his host. Cheer up, old chap! Say “Resurgam.”
You’re the one German sailor who understands war.
Kill your enemy without being killed yourself. I
don’t blame you for the submarine business. I’d
have done the same myself. Well, so long.—Yours
till Hell freezes, Fisher, 29/3/’l6.
Tliis'frank statement by a fighting man was
unpalatable in England just then. The letter
was printed in one edition of an English
newspaper, but did not appear again, and no
other newspaper copied it.
Fisher had believed for a long time that
England should keep Turkey as an ally,
chiefly because England is a great Moham-
medan Power and the Dardanelles could
easily be made impregnable. He opposed the
Dardanelles campaign, but acquiesced under
pressure from Kitchener ; and fit the Darda-
nelles Commission he told a plain story, and
insisted on the responsibility of the politicians.
For the support of Andrew Fisher, Mackenzie
of Maoriland, and Rock, M.P., who took the
same line on Ministerial responsibility, he ex-
presses his -eternal gratitude.
From the Naval point of view Fisher will
be remembered for the laying down of Dread-
noughts, the introduction of’ the destroyer,
the turbine and the water-tube boiler, and
the concentration of the British fleet in the
North Sea. He had no opportunity of great
naval engagements until too old; but he
established a policy at the Admiralty which
should be worth several victories at sea.
While a navy is necessary.it would be well
for it to act on his maxim: “In war you want
-Surprise. To beget Surprise you want
"imagination to go to bed with Audacity.”
And don’t give a job to Buggins because it’s
his turn, if there is a better man.
Fisher was invited to Australia as adviser,
but refused to come in any other capacity
than dictator. He thought Kitchener made
a mistake when he treated Australia as a
continent and not as an island. Australia’s
defence, he says, is submarines.
The Gymnastics of G.B.S.
At the dress-rehearsal of “Fanny’s First
Play,” by ******* ****, Shaw turned to
James Carew, Ellen Terry’s husband, and
said: “Well, James, who wrote the play?”
James, who acts well—sometimes very well —
was of no consequence whatever as a ci'itic
or publicity agent; but Shaw couldn’t
pass him or me or any other humble man in
the street without slipping us the oppor-
tunity to tell about Shaw.
It is a strange sin, this love of the lime-
light. So many men who in their several
ways are nearly great miss the “quite” for
the sake of the spotlight. Men of the type
of Wilde and Shaw have no business down
centre, or on the stage at all. Charles James
Fox and Winston Churchill did and do half
their good work in the centre of feverish
applause —their good work as builders on
foundations already and possibly badly made.
P>ut Shaw is not a builder; he is a creative
artist, sharing with all the others the truth
that his ultimate and only serious critic is
himself. And if Wilde had sat in his room
and put “black on white” as he said (he,
couldn’t leave even the word “writing”
alone), instead of fooling about London show-
ing off before Ms social betters, he Hught
not have got into such ghastly trouble. He
might even have written the good stuff for
shadowed in his promising' efforts.
Shaw is 63; there is nothing in that, ot
course, unless you think it is a good ®
which to be grown-up. Since me
Irrational Knot” of 1880, he has been gor-
geously funny all over Europe and the
United States. He has John Bull
over the head with his balloon, day in, da 5
out, for 40 years. He has capered before
the crowned heads of Europe, until, tired
out, he has found that he is an institution,
a man who writes prefaces and screamingly
funny plays, who pokes fun at us and our
foibles, brings the classics down to eartn
and tears the veil of romance from them.
He has chucked good plays at the people and
bad plays; bad novels and very bad ones;
papers, lectures, sermons, tragedies, farces
everything in the world he has thrown at
them, telling them to take it and be damned.
He has said that he is a better dramatist
than Sliakspeare. He has said that woman
is the pursuer, the superman; that Unglanu
was responsible for the war, and that a
chivalrous man is a fool and a liar.
In all that, he has kept full centre, well
down. On some pretext, if it were only
Jaeger underclothing or the need for more
wife-beating, he has kept that position, with
the “spot” on. Fifteen years ago every tea-,
table in Boston was wet with the tears of
the cultured trying to decide if they should
take him seriously as an artist, a humani-
tarian or a hygienic expert. And four
years ago, when he became over* the odds by
that tactlessness about England and the war,
the cultured and tne uncultured decided to
take him no way at all. .
There is enough half-truth in it all to
make the public whom Shaw describes and
treats' as a fool, sit up and take notice,
which is the desired result. Any man skil-
ful enough to write a successful play can
prove that he is a better dramatist than
Sliakspeare if he can say what he will and
there is no one to answer him. Any man look-
ing down into his mind will find the fear
lurking there that the soft, fair-haired thing
with the musical voice is no more of the
weaker sex than he is of the stronger; run-
ning over the details of the early days he
may wonder who was the aggressor. All old
women have counselled the use of Jaeger
underclothing since its invention ; and almost
everyone knows some women who would be
the better for an occasional thrashing. In
that matter of Shaw’s ultimate treason, the
Avar undoubtedly fulminated upon the slug-
gish content of the European Powers, of
whom Great Britain is the most important.
And courtesy (which is what Shaw means—
not chivalry) is enough of a camouflage for
Shaw to call it a Mar. Its softening of the
hard, generally quite ob-vious, truth is not
a lie any more than its companion cleanli-
ness is; but that is enough for ShaAv, getting
his complete argument in first. The silent
knowledge of these half-truths is an old
possession of every man’s. The new thing is
a man rude enough to say them : Shaw, in
fact, bounding down the last years of the
century, yelling with laughter and saying
them at the top of his voice.
It doesn’t matter now ; Shaw the dramatist
has been “done in” by ShaAV the publicity
expert. There is no chance now of the miss-
ing essential of humility being added; that
is my reason for mentioning the 63. Fifteen,
or even 10, years ago it Avas possible to
refuse to take Shaw at his own cheap valua-
tion ; but not now. He hasn’t time to get
from under. He can’t let James Carew or
me look at a very good play in comfort with-
out butting in about Shaw. That good play
is the last kick of the dramatist; all the
rest is journalism—a running, screaming
commentary.
In the tender, natural beauty of the lover’s
scene in “Mrs. Warren’s Profession” there
was a great dramatist trying hard to break
through, as there was in the poetry and
clear vision of “Candida.” All the weapons
were there, sharp and bright for the good
work. Wit, speed and color; the sixth-sense
that picks out the dramatic line and the
good and inevitable curtain: above all,, a
miraculous gift of dramatic characterisation.
In three short speeches, Ann, Henry Strakcr,
the Waiter, John Farmer, Marchbanks,
Gloria, Fanny, all of them stand up com-
plete characters, with only their work in
the story to do. “You Never Can Tell” is
not short of a beautiful comedy in spite of
Shaw’s tricking out of the dentist, and
Gloria, and the ineffable Waiter. The full
richness and brilliance of “Man and Super-
man” put it in modern current plays in a
place of its own. And “Arms and the
Man” is the rare thing: quintessential farce-
comedy which never descends to plain farce.
Shaw Avro’te that in a hurry for production,
giving himself no tyne for publicity pre-
occupations; I think # it is probably his best
play. He has a magnificent mind, as quick
as a weasel’s, as tireless and comprehensive
as a politician’s, as vivid and strong as a
poet’s. But he murdered the quality of
humility, the hard taskmaster of the other
three. And that seems to be the sum total
of Shaw.
If he commits suicide one night in full
centre, or starves for a year in silence and
writes a great play, or somehow gets into
the limelight of history, his literary position
there will become that of a master of pathos
in prefaces. These are heart-breaking docu-
ments. In the guise of explanations of the
methods of Shaw, little histories of the De-
cline and . Fall of Shaw, and so forth, each
one apologises anxiously and tearfully to
Shaw for the fact that he is. not the artist
that he should be. All the old rags of
argument are there: the need of writing
popularly-arresting matter to get a hearing,
the public being a fool and a Briton to boot;
the subtle essence of inevitable truth in
strained and commonplace farce;, the proof
of the pudding is in the eating, and so on,
ad nauseam. But between the many lines
there are Shaw’s pleading, eyes, imploring
Shaw to believe hint that' he is really doing
his best in his damnably tight, motley, and
that nerhaps soon he win be able to drop it
all and do some real work again. Fifteen
years ago anyone would have- believed the
truth of the possible greatness; but not now.
The noise of the cackle and. clamor will not
die down in time.
HILARY LOTTING.
(Continued on page 28.)


m
vee
*
€
O
*
JXGOS.
«•
rjr * \
Ti X >//////.
■«*
P3^W
KJHK
HJKJH
1111
m
!!!!
JsT
J
ECONOMISE !
Shop at Australia’s Largest Emporium.
Consider the benefits!
Practically a township under one roof. Fifty-two depart-
ments spreading out before you the choicest and most
varied stocks from the markets of the world.
And every department influenced by the same policy,
offering you
GOLDEN OPPORTUNITIES
TO ECONOMISE.
The buying of enormous stocks at favorable prices, earlier
buying in view of rising costs—all contribute to the splendid
values you receive at Anthony Horderns’.
There are numerous free illustrated Price Lists. Send for the one
you are interested in!
A Few Selections from the Departments-
Fascinating Fashion Displays.
Two examples from the brilliant array of smart and
exclusive Modes.
A Graceful Model Gown (D 1237) fashioned in
Pale Champagne Crepe-de-Chine, richly embellished with
Filet Lace, hand embroidery and hemstitching. The
loose Panel at back and folded waist forming an attractive
finish in Satin-de-Soie.
This is value that could not be surpassed.. .10 Guineas
A Charming Assam Wrap.
This Smart Coat (JX6OS) is made in extra-quality
Assam and features a smart effect in the smart painted
collar and pockets, daintily trimmed with Silk Cable
Stitchings.
Anthony Horderns’ low price 84/-
Crockery.
The largest and most diversified collection in Australia.
This illustration depicts the representative of a Hand-
some Tea Service, Copenhagen design, 21 pieces.
Excelled value at 16/6
A Handy Forge.
Our Agricultural Implement Department stocks everything
for the man on the land. Here is a strong Silver’s
Portable Forge, handy for all outside work and
useful for the farm. Embraces many special features in
design. Described in our Implement Catalogue. Send for
a free copy. Only £4/10/-
When You Travel
tak,e a Kit Bag in keeping with the good appearance of
your travelling attire. Here is a Kit Bag, good looking
and of great strength, made in specially selected cowhide,
lined with cloth, strong side lock and ring clips.
14 16 18 inches
PRICES.. 25/- 27/6 33/-
Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough
as illustrated. Specially designed to turn hillside or level
land, without leaving dead furrows or ridges. Will cut
from 5 to 8 inches deep and 8 to 12 inches wide. Weight
1181 b. The famous “Wiard” make £B/10/-
A Handsome Teapot.
The Silverplate Department exhibits many charming
examples of the Silversmith’s Art. This Teapot (CX234)
is heavily Silver-plated on Britannia Metal and is designed
on lines of charming simplicity.
Two-pint size. PRICK 40/-
Splendid values in plain and richly-engraved Tea and
Coffee Sets.
The Famous “White”
Sewing Machine.
A Real Boon to the Housewife! It represents perfection in
machine design and embodies special labor-saving features
found in no other make. You will be charmed with the
beautiful work executed on the “White.” Handsomely
finished in Golden Oak on Walnut, richly carved and
polished. PRICES :
74V., with two drawers £9/12/6
75V., as illustrated £lO/2/6
77V., with six drawers £ll/2/6
Packing for country 2/6 extra. Complete set of King Steel
Attachments free with each machine.
A Bright Light
can be obtained with a low oil consumption!
This strong Suspension Lamp, representative of an
extensive range, is fitted with No. 30 Vestal Burner, and
can be relied on to give a brilliant steady light: holds
three pints oil. 14-inch Opal shade. PRICE .... 25/-
Long-service Wringers.
When you contemplate buying a Wringer consider the
merits and low price of this American machine —the
“Colonial!” It is made with high-grade rubber rollers,
* galvanised-iron frame and relief pressure screw. Will fit
any size wood or galvanised tub. PRICE 35/-
Buying a Power Pump!
Anything from a needle to an anchor at Anthony Horderns’.
On the fourth floor may be seen The Bulldozer
Bowel* Pump (as illustrated), double acting, capable
of pumping 2000 gallons per hour with a 2-inch discharge,
or 5800 gallons with a 3-inch discharge. The Agricul-
tural Implement Catalogue will tell you all about it.
Send for a copy. BULLDOZER PRICES: —
To suit 2-inch discharge £26/10/-
To suit 3-inch discharge £47/2/6
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons Ltd.
605 Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
CX234
o
ytTi.A#/
1 1
V
D 1237.
M
Will C.OU3N\AL it


Meg'gitt Limited’s
STOCK FOODS
give proportionally g'reater results with
"ows, Calves, Horses, vSheep, Poultry and Pig's,
than their famous
JHKJHK
Linseed Oil Meal.
FURTHER PARTICULARS FROM DEPARTMENT A.
Agents: Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay, Limited, 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton &
Brisbane; Messrs. Clarkson, Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street
W, Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart, or
Co., Queen Street,
, Perth; Messrs. F.
nNSEEOOIim
/AELGITT £°
• PARRAMATTA
O/veboy on the bag
guarantees quality''
iS ORIX 97, 3DLLIO CiySH
jy*pn*?gr m
D
MEGGrrrs
UNSEEOOUM9I
M
/AE3XITT L 1
\ PARRAMATTA
°/Ae Jboy on thefoaq
guarantees quality


After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help your di-
gestion and take care of the over-
load, by taking one Pinkette, the
little sugar coated laxative pill after
a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative, are
greatly superior to old fashioned
medicines which over stimulate the
liver and, when their use is stopped,
leave it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the stomach
or cause griping.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for fr ee trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Or. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when . Visiting Sydney
Gronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., liogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
GOUT
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHLIJMATISM, GI3UT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/.. •
Prout & Go., 229, Strand, London,
HOTEL
METHOPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per clay, or apart-
ments ma y be secured separately by . the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
tr> The Manager.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. lit is the most scientific appliance yet
invenfcnd for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
condit ions.
To prove what we state
WE* OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothii ig. It is suitable for men, women and
childi en, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILUJSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CELEUKa. a JC.D
23
The Rapid Cure for Corn>
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young-—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
lemores the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cuie—-it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
tour or five days does it. It is a handy cure
- no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
u w „ ra ?, ley ’ w °rando Buildings, Adelaide.
k. w. Bradley, Fitzroy Bui dings, Adelaide Street
Brisbane.
DrU fnJ B Sunrtries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L- Susman&Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 14 Royal Bank Chambers,
rertn, W. A. j-|
BOSTOCK’S Shoe Dressing
NOW OBTAINABLE IN TINS,
The Government having lifted the embargo, Bostock’s Shoe
Dressing is again obtainable in tins, as heretofore.
The increasing popularity of this brilliant polish is due to its
remarkable leather-preserving qualities. Containing ingredi-
ents that nourish and preserve the leather, it lengthens the
life of footwear, in addition to imparting a bright and lasting
polish.
COLORS —Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, and White.
In tins, bottles and tubes.
SOLD ANYWHERE.
Ml
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Bostocks Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
Noxious Weeds
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES, DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
It
VAI
LO
BRAND
. 'Weed, scrub
% TREE KILLER
[poison]
5®
YOUR STOREKEEPER
CAN SUPPLY
Every square foot of land is valuable
now-a-days—far too valuable to be taken
up by scrub and weeds. Why should
they sap the vitality out of ground which
should contribute to your storehouse or
granary ?
Have you a clearing problem—is any
of your land being usurped by undesir-
able weeds ? Then there’s no earthly
reason why they should remain there
any longer. You have a speedy, sure,
and economical means of cutting short
their existence.
"VALLO” Brand Weed
Scrub and Tree Killer
will clean them off like a bush fire, with
the difference that they go for good.
“Vallo” is not an experiment. It is an
absolute exterminator of any and every
kind of Noxious Growth. It’s demon-
strating its efficiency every day. Whether
your trouble be giant trees or common
sorrel put “Vallo” on the job and you’ll
be impressed by what it can do.
Prices: 561b5., 70/-; 151b5., 21/3; 7lbs., 10/6;
1 lb.. 2/-; } lb., 1/3
Manufactured by A.Victor LeggO 8C Co
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
Business Notices.
'T'HE “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
and made in Australia, beats all the imported
lures. Irresistible for perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting jov. Send
2/-, P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” 561' Dowling
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.AV.
Wanted.
Motor mechanics wanted.—
Good wages and prospects for capable
men. Up-to-date workshop.
LONGREACH MOTOR CO., Ltd.
Longreach, C. Q’land.^
The NEW EDISON
re-creates voice and music.
mm
m
That is no idle statement; actual tests have
been held many times and experts are agreed
that it is impossible to detect the slightest
difference between voice or music and the
New Edison’s re-creation of it. The New
Edison is the perfect instrument—re-creates
by means of a smooth Diamond point—no
bothering or scratchy needles to change.
Write now for details of this wonderful instru-
ment —post free to you.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
REPUTATION WATCHES.
Our reputation for watches (we know from numbers of letters
we receive) is a very fine one.
WHY? HOW?
Eighty years of watch selling has given us the knowledge of
watch construction.
Our great capital enables us to secure the best.
Our enormous output permits large buying. Large buying
secures lowest quotations and finest qualities.
THEN—
Every watch is tested by experts before being stocked.
Every watch is examined and tested when sold.
Every watch is guaranteed for 15 years.
Every watch carries our good name, and so we are careful that
the best service is given.
And our prices—for the best qualities only—will be found to be
the lowest.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
w
Gent.’s Full-size Open-face
Oxidised Steel Super “Fx and
R” 15-jewelled Lever, G3/-
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Drought.
I have known parched and desolate land,
Scarred by the sun, bleached by the drought—
A tawny waste of blistering sand
All pocked with gnarled and twisted trees —
Turn to a rich, tumultuous plain
Aglow with green life’s ecstasies
Suddenly in a night of rain.
I have known this, and now I know
In my own self the tortured thirst
t>f life that lets no green shoot grow:
Know, too, how cooling rains make whole;
For, come from that death-haunted place,
T felt the deserts of my soul
Blossoming when I saw your face.
VICTORIA.
VANCE PALMER.
The Sailor.
The sailor climbed to the mountain-top,
Where the snow-clad summits rise
Above the line where the earth-sounds stop
And the last earth-echo dies.
The white clouds soothed the sailor’s cheeks:
He saw the wide lands roll,
Like oceans poured from the mountain-
peaks,
And the beauty thrilled his soul.
For peace, of which he had only dreamed,
Was there, for the heart of man,
Where never a harsh-tongued seabird screamed
Or a white-topped roller ran.
The sunlight died over vale and hill;
The farms in the shadows dimmed;
Rut the mountains glowed in the glory still
lake gods whom the sunset hymned.
As the sailor watched the shadows come
Like ghosts up the mountain-side,
It seemed to him that a world long dumb
Had turned from the light and died.
Grey loneliness in the twilight grew,
Vague awe with the starlight came.
There was no life in the endless blue.
Nor love that a man could name.
No comfort dwelt in that silence strange.
The heart could only feel
Those dreams that drift to the high snow
range
From realms where the slow stars wheel —
Vast dreams, too deep for the mind of man
To truly understand.
His thoughts turned back to the seas that
span
The earth from sand to sand ;
Past trembling lights of the farms below
He looked for a lighthouse star,
Some landmark such as the sailors know,
Where the forts and the beacons are.
The sailor came to the shore again,
To the barges at the quay,
And heard rude, rough-tongued sailormen
Tell tales of the hard-lipped sea.
The smell of the ships was everywhere
And the odors of the land.
The dreams and the thoughts that stirred
him there
His heart could understand —
Even those lonely thoughts that go
Where never a ship has sailed.
By ’berg and pack and drifting floe,
And never a sea-voice hailed.
The sea is mother and more to those
Who love and curse her, too.
There is life and more in the gale that
blows
The roaring, black night through.
And there is no peace in the world at all
Like that of the landless tides.
When ocean voices to murmurs fall,
And sigh past a steamer's sides.
The sailor climbed to the mountain-top;
He dreamed pure peace might be
Above the clouds, where the earth-sounds
stop-^
But peace is in the sea.
MAOBILAND.
Will Lawson.
A Chaplet.
I treasure the faery phrases that unchain
The ivory-fretted doors of fantasy—
Words to be strung upon a silver skein,
As carven beads upon a rosary;
And there, as beads upon the silk are told,
With sound-approving relish to be rolled
In sonorous refrain.
And mostly I adventure on the sea
That sings about a Caribbean bay;
For “Caribbean" is the Devil’s key
To Treasure Island, and the roaring way
Down pirate paths; and many a pig-tailed
horde,
Most swart disciples of the bloody sword,
I hear in “Caribbee.”
“Haroun Alraschid” —words of potent thrall:
Singing of Eastern moonshine, and the
spark
Of rosy lanterns on the Sultan’s wall.
Where looms the purple palace, shadowed
stark
Against the spinning stars and silver-grey
Of lustrous minarets, where moon-fires play
About each tapered ball.
And “Pompadour’’ is lit with memories—
Blue evenings at Versailles; the olive-
box ;
Green-bronze of Tritons, through the cone-
cut trees,
And slender swords a-tilt to scented frocks;
The stone canal, with sleepy carp a-swim,
And patch and powder by the fountain rim—
Forgotten ghosts of these.
The ghostly gallants of the ’Forty-four
That linger in the sound of “Holyrood” ;
And “Araby,” and “Bath,” and many more,
Brave cobwebs of a wistful minor mood —
Oh, these are Devil’s cabala to me,
And every letter is a magic key,
And every word a door.
N.S.W.
KENNETH SLESSOR.
Poverty.
Poor! He is poor who neither meed nor
dower
From the miraculous dawn or eve receives;
Who fails to find rare treasure in a flower,
And misses the rich largess of the leaves.
QUEENSLAND.
ALEX, WHYTE.


k
Three-Spindle Ball-Bearing Drill.
Machines are made with one. two, three and
four spindles, any or all of which may be: —
Hand Feed Plain
Auto Feed Plain.
Auto Feed Geared.
A SUGGESTION
Get a three- or four-spindle Ball-bearing Drilling Machine, fitted with one-geared
spindle and the others plain. Have our patent self-engaging, self-releasing automatic
feed motion fitted to the plain spindle (it is always furnished with geared spindles)
and specify the improved open channel lubrication system shown in the illustration.
Now, with the addition of a few Coit Ball-bearing Drill Chucks, a Dorman
Tapping Attachment and some real high-speed drills, all of which we can furnish with
the machine, you’re ready for any work within the following limits:—
Drilling holes up to 1 in. diam. by 5 in. deep.
Tapping holes up to Whitworth.
Facing and counterboring up to 2 in. diam.
All in Steel, mind you.
The machine is equally suitable for manufacturing or general use, and will prove
a welcome addition to any shop.
Further details and specifications on request.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent fop
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: ABC, Lieber’s, Western Union and Private.
Machine Tool Makers and Importers. Coventry, England, ......
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR OUAY, SYDNEY.
YOU UP-TO-DATE
STOCKOWNERS
Cut your stock losses right down to
bedrock by having on the spot the
necessary Veterinary items to in-
stantly meet trouble when it occurs.
Write for our Catalogue and infor-
mation matter showing and describ-
ing Modern Instruments and Applian-
ces that can be successfully used
without extensive Veterinary know-
ledge—and which return their cost
over and over again. Write to-day
—sickness or accident may happen
to-morrow.
(cS
Denyer’s
Milk Fever
Outfit.
Sterilised Air Treatment
This treatment for Milk Fever has
proved successful in 96.7 per cent, of
cases treated. Complete outfit, consist-
ing of Patent Pump and all Accessories,
with full directions for operating,
packed in neat case and priced at
ONLY 15/-. Postage 9d.
DENYER BROS.
VETERINARY SPECIALISTS,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
%
&
ham
bac
W
/S7]
i
$
C 4
KK
OHt'3
Sometimes y tis a pleasure
to be hungry.
A real pleasure to feel that healthy
hunger that follows exercise in the
great outdoors —and to know that
a good meal of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
awaits you.
There's nothing more tempting or
more satisfying than this canned
delicacy.
It is always ready for instant use.
Be sure and take a tin away
with you on your holiday trips.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 1177
GOODRICH
SAFETY XVD IT
TREAD A A rVlvvJ
Cost the Least Per Mile!
u
BECAUSE THE
RUBBER IS THE
TOUGHEST, AND
MOST WEAR-
RESISTING EVER
PUT INTO AN
AUTOMOBILE
TYRE.
LET YOUR NEXT
TYRE BE A
GOODRICH—
YOU WILL BE
MORE THAN
PLEASED WITH
THE RESULTS.
DUVAL ca CO.
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
124 Russell St., Melbourne. Adelaide St., Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41. —No. 2054.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 1920.
Price 6d.
THE ORGY.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Mnsgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have Tiie Bulletin
sent regularly do you every week for a year , to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
r ef used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Bditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
30011 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will bt regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bill
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these,
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that,
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
C.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 1849 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
TJ.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York.
Honolulu. — Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Hoang, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Pei'era and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Kulamadan.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (reenstered as a Neivs-
paper). Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id., United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 80s., l\d.; Sioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
Iffi^S&aHelzm,.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 22, 1920.
THE POLICY OF KILLING THE
INLAND TOWNS.
The great ironworks at Lithgow (N.S.W.)
lately closed, and 3000 men were thrown out
of work, all by reason of the avalanche of
the new railway rates. The works stood for
a very big industry, though, their product
being on the free import list, it was, at Aus-
tralian wage rates, an exceedingly precarious
one. Certainly it received something in the
way of a bonus, the Federal authorities pre-
ferring to pay out some of the taxpayers’
money rather than receive money in the
form of a duty and annoy the importer. A
bonus is a thing which is always liable to
he withdrawn in a spasm of economy, and
is always liable to be thrown up at the
recipient as being a form of charity. So
when the stoppage of the Lithgow works
was announced the Holman Government
assumed a damaged expression, and, after
referring to the bonus, said that the big
inland firm should have entered a polite pro-
test and then proceeded to lose immense
sums of monev while the Government gave
the matter profound and protracted con-
sideration. In other words, it should have
o-iven notice though it didn t get any. Hut
” concern which has to send all its goods by
rail and which deals in very heavy goods,
and’ is suddenly fold that it must pay £203
where it formerly paid £lOO, can t afford to
wait the Government’s learned and leisurely
consideration. It might lose the accumula-
tions of years in a month and dissipate its
capital in three months. The basis of com-
plaint is that an all-round increase of 10
per cent, in freights was foreshadowed to
meet increased wages, increased interest bills,
the cost of subsidising the wheat industry
and the losses on wild-cat lines, and that
in these circumstances the increases, running
as high as 153 per cent., that were planked
on the Lithgow manufactured goods, was an
outrage.
■it it- w *
Of course, almost every goods rate
in N. S. Wales is an outrage. The policy
which charges some classes of manufactured
goods eleven times as much by weight as
the rate on that bulky article wheat is a
notable instance. In the Lithgow case there
is the possibility of a design to wreck local
industry in the importing interest by loading
it with an absurdly large share of the rail-
way burden. That would be quite in keep-
ing with the old Sydney tradition, and though
a mere State Government has no power to
fake the tariff its power to fake railway
rates answers just as well. In fact, as it
doesn’t involve Parliamentary argument, it
answers better. But it is more likely that
there is no desire to wreck the industry—
merely to shift it to Sydney or as near
there as possible, by making work impos-
sible at an inland town. The Lithgow firm
seems to take the lat ter view; anyhow, it
complains bitterly that it should have had
long notice of the avalanche so that it could
have removed to the crowded bosom of the
metropolis or adjacent to that bosom. It
further points out that the new rates con-
vey a very definite warning against the
inland habit, for they provide that lime-
stone, a heavy raw material which iron-
smelters use in enormous quantities, shall be
carried to a rival firm on the coast at half
as much per mile as to the Lithgow people.
A firm that couldn’t see a hint like that
would be too obtuse for business. This, of
course, is the mere elaboration of a general
policy. Thus greasy wool is carried to the
city at a much cheaper rate than scoured
wool; and while wheat coming from, say,
Tamworth. to be ground at Sydney or ex-
ported in its raw state from Sydney, is car-
ried for almost nothing, there is no such
rebate on wheat going the other way to be
ground at, say, Armidale.
The policy pursued looks contradictory,
but it works on two coherent ideas. One is
to depress country towns and country-town
industries for the indecent and dropsical en-
largement of Sydney; the other is to build
a railway at any cost to any town no matter
how depressed, provided it is one that can,
even by making 200 miles more railway than
is necessary, be hitched on to Sydney. So
it is quite in the contradictory order of
things that Lithgow should have been pro-
vided at great cost with a better railway,
the Zig-Zag being cut out, and that there
should at the same time be a whole-souled
willingness to drive Lithgow’s big industry
to the coast and destroy the earnings of the
improved railway. The process of depress-
ing or extinguishing country towns, includ-
ing railway towns, has been marvellously
persistent and successful. The census of
1911 showed 53 counties out of 141 as losing
population, and 56 country municipalities out
of 152 as doing the same. The Statistician
has now issued an estimate for municipali-
ties up to 1917. He finds 145 municipalities
surviving, for there have been deaths in the
family; and he returns 55 of them as being
on the down-grade. These include such rail-
way towns as Bathurst, Blavney, Bourke,
Goulburn, Narrabri. Nyngan, Yass (on one
side of Canberra), Queanbeyan (on the other
side) and Cooma (which completes the tri-
angle round the Dry Capital in Two Pieces).
More remarkable still, the Statistician found
42 cases where the total unimproved value
of the land in a municipality bad diminished
—--42 cases where the loan railway-building
policy had Ted to a decrement instead of
an increment, and where the business of the
loan line was to carry values as well as
people away. Quite important places like
Wellington, East and West Maitland, Gun-
nedah and South Grafton are on the Pst
of places where values are going down de-
spite all the loan money that is spent to
make them go up. If careful adjustment of
rates can show the Hoskins firm that it
must move nearer Sydney or perish, Lith-
gow will be a big corpse in the satne grave-
yard.
The loan-railway policy and the One Big
City congestion policy and the raw-material
and anti-manufacturing policy, after a long
journey, have arrived at the edge of a pre-
cipice. This paper does not know one spot
in N. S. Wales where a railway can be built
that will pay working expenses and interest
when lines are built with money that costs
nearly twice what it did, and with materials
that cost twice what they did (which
multiplies the cost by four), and all lines
point to a city which is on the average twice
as far away as it was from the lines built
with cheap money and cheap materials 30
years ago. This, with the other things
thrown in, multiplies the gloom by eight.
And if the railways on which the gloom is
multiplied by eight are to be worked with
labor which costs twice as much as it did
30 years ago, then there are mighty few
possible lines that will anything like pay
working expenses let alone interest. If the
Government insists on floating more rail-
way loans at present rates the best thing
it can do is to tie the borrowed, money in a
bag and tie itself or an anchor to the bag
and drop the lot in the deep, wet sea. Then
the principal and interest will be lost but
nothing more. There won’t be in additior
an eternal bill for loss on working expenses
and there won’t be the obliteration of towns,
which seems to be what Holman builds rail-
ways for.
THE GOLDEN GIANT HOLDS OUT
THE HAT.
It is the new and not very graceful custom
for a State Treasurer, when he has a spare
moment between loans, to compile a pam-
phlet setting forth how his State has been
wronged, injured or robbed by the other
States in their Federal capacity and has
a just claim for compensation. When all
the returns are in it will probably be found
that every State has been robbed by all
the States, including itself. From Perth,
the very last place where such a thing
might have been expected, comes the latest
official pamphlet, and the name of it is
“Financial Relations Between the State of
Western Australia and the Commonwealth.”
The position is that the war has made things
worse, which couldn’t be helped; and that
(a matter which could have been helped)
shuffling, incompetent State politicians
have spent the 20 years of Federation
in piling up a greater debt burden
than had accumulated in the . previous
50 vears, and that the long-suffering camel
has broken in the middle. If there had
been no Commonwealth the State financiei*
could only blame themselves or each other.
There being a Commonwealth they follow
the time-honored fashion of the shuffler and
blame it. As regards the special dealings ot
the States with the Commonwealth, the
matter mav be summed up thus: —
(1) Westralia was allowed, alone among the
States, to run a special Customs tariff of its own
for six years. This produced £868,963. It got a
grant or special allowance of £2,050,000 spread
over ten vears and expiring this year. And it got,
at a cost'of about £7,000,000, a Federal railway—
the only railway of any size that the Common-
wealth has built—which costs £286,000 a year to
cover its losses. The other States pay, roughly,
£268,000 of this. No State save Westralia was
in a hurry about this railway.
(2) Tasmania got an aid of £900,000, which is
also about at its final instalment. .
(3) N. S. Wales got the advantage of the expen-
diture of about £1,000,000 on the Federal capital
and the expenditure of about £30,000 a year out
of taxes to buy hay for the white elephant.
(4) Victoria got the benefit of having the Federal
legislators lodging and brawling on its premises.
(5) Queensland got nothing.
(6) South Australia got swindled. It handed over
523,620 square miles of territory—a property which
would have been highly saleable, say, to the Gov-
ernment of India with nigger labor conditions at-
tached—and 624 miles of railway, on terms that
the line would be finished. So far no attempt has
been made to finish it, and there has even been
talk of breaking the bargain and building instead
into the eastern States.
It is on this basis that an urgent claim is
put in for special consideration for the
Golden Giant of the West. The Treasury
man who writes the pamphlet suggests that
when the present agreement, by which each
State receives 255. per inhabitant per an-
num from the Commonwealth, expires next
June. Westralia should receive 365. per
person per annum. The Federal proposal is
that when the agreement expires the allow-
ance shall be 225. 6d. for one year, then
205., 17s. 6d., 155., 12s. 6d. and 10s. Even
if this should happen to the other States
Westralia wants 365.
* * * *
The plea advanced is that the big Gold
State contributes much more per head than
the average in Customs revenue, partly be-
cause it has a larger proportion of men in
its population than its neighbors, and partly
because it manufactures less than the aver-
age despite its large male population, and
so imports more. The first plea is based
on a temporary condition which will pass,
and the various donations the State has re-
ceived look like very fair compensation.
The second isn’t so much a plea as a dis-
grace. Certainly Westralia’s manufactures
have languished under Federal rule, but
when they are compared with something else
that hasn’t languished a sort of light is
thrown on things :
People Employed in Factories.
1901. 1917. Increase.
New South Wales . . 66,135 117,997 51,862
Victoria . . . . . . 66,529 116,970 50,441
Queensland . . . . 26,172 40,446 14,274
S. Australia . . .. 19,283 26,010 6,727
Tasmania . . . . . . 7,466 8,079 613
Decrease.
Westralia 12,198 12,168 30
It looks disastrous enough, and Westralian
politicians always explain that the trouble
arises through Federation and the removal
of internal tariff barriers, though the other
States also federated and removed their
internal tariff barriers. Another table puts
a different view of the matter
Gross Public Debt per Head.
1901. 1918. Increase.
Queensland .. £76 9 8 £B9 19 11 £l3 10 3
Victoria .. 41 12 5 56 3 5 14 11 0
S.A 73 6 0 92 9 6 19 3 6
Tasmania .. 49 11 4 74 12 7 25 1 3
N.S.W 49 9 4 79 16 3 30 6 11
Westralia .. 67 8 0 135 19 5 68 11 5
Queensland makes a better showing than
might be expected, but then in the sober
pre-RYAN days there were three years in
which the debt per head actually diminished.
The steady tendency has been towards the
dogs, but Westralia has gone dogward
fastest. In other words, it has steadily
bogged in at the policy of taking every pos-
sible man out of the factories to build loan
works —good, indifferent and awful works —
and therefore its industries have suffered.
And because it made less it imported more,
and paid more than its share of Customs
taxes, and its wharf-laborers —the men who
dragged imported goods ashore—became so
important that they mistook themselves for
gods and began to run the State. Westralia
always points out that it has as big a sink-
ing fund as all the other States put.
together, which ought to be set against its
debt, reducing it to £llB-odd per head. But
the accumulated deficits now almost balance
the sinking fund and wipe it out of con-
sideration,
* * • *
The case against Westralia is that it has
had eight outrageous deficits and announces
that it expects a ninth and doesn’t propose
to do anything to meet it—merely to let it
come. Also it is charged that it appears to
want deficits, to hunt for them and create
them and nurse them by keeping its direct
taxes down so low that in four years of
deficit (1915-16-17-18) it was by far the
least-taxed of the States. Also it is charged
that on two occasions it reduced the amount
of tax collected per inhabitant and made the
deficit worse. The idea may be to make out
a case for bankruptcy or repudiation. Or
there may be simply an idea of leaving the
financial infant on the Federal doorstep. It
may be that Westralia has manufactured
eight deficits and is busy building a ninth so
that the Pauper Giant might do just what
it is doing now—face the expiration of the
period of its dole with an appeal for a big-
ger dole. That means that Westralia.
charging its people (said to include a larger
proportion of sturdy males than other
States') about 30s. per head, may ask for
aid from Queensland, where they pay 80s.
and have a blessed prospect of being asked
to pay 105 s. There may be also an idea of
making out a case with the public creditor
for a suspension of the sinking fund con-
tributions, though that would be a mere
drop in the bucket of the trouble. And
there may be no idea at all—only drift. Which-
ever it is, Westralia anticipates a new de-
licit of £593,000. It may also expect to
receive £160,000 less from the Common-
wealth next year, for its special grant ex-
pires in June. It is probable that the
Federal grant of 255. per inhabitant per
annum bo all the States, which is also about
to expire, wall begin an all-round process of
reduction. So it looks as if the Golden
Giant who got the special tariff and the big
donation and the big railway, and is now
holding out the big hat, will have to take
a new view of things. At present he is
busy as usual floating the big loan at very
big interest.
THE CASE FOR THE TURK.
“Tiie departure of the Turks from Europe
has been irrevocably decided upon”; “it is
certain that the Ottoman seat of Govern-
ment will be transferred either to Brusa or
Konia in Asia Minor” ; “the Allies are deter-
mined to remove the Ottoman Government
to Asiatic Turkey”—such are the cable mes-
sages which have been pouring into Aus-
tralia for the past month, let none of
these things is likely to happen.
As a matter of workaday politics it is
impracticable “to spurn tne blood-stained
hand of the enemy for all time” or to “dis-
member” countries like Germany or Tur-
key-schemes which appeared feasible to
thousands in the heat of warfare. The eject-
ment of Turkey from Europe has been
talked of many times during the past cen-
tury, and for the most part in the casual,
almost lightsome, spirit in which a land-
lord discusses the ousting of an undesirable
tenant. The idea that the case for the
Unspeakable One possesses any merits what-
ever has provoked pitying smiles on such
occasions. Everybody knows what Turks
are. Proprietors of harems and eunuchs;
infidels; persons who play no games and
hence get obscenely fat in early youth;
murderers ; oppressors of the weak; swind-
lers who do not even pay their own soldiers.
During the late war they ranked second in
the matter of moral obliquity to the Ger-
mans. They were as bad as the Boers at
the end of last century, or as the French
at the time of the Fashoda incident. What
does it matter that the Turk has what he
considers a powerful moral case against us?
Besotted drunkards, unbelievers, a race
whose women scorn the first principles of
modesty—we are these things and worse hi
the opinion of the Orient. It only shows
the Turkish person’s pagan ignorance. All
right-thinking folks are aware that our
morality is the only genuine article.
Why, then, is the Turkish Government
likely to remain on the European side of
the Bosphorus?
For one thing, because expulsion would
look a good deal more like revenge than
justice. People who might have warmly ap-
plauded the step a year ago begin to-day to
feel uneasy about it. When Lord Elgin
destroyed the Pekin Summer Palace in 1860
it was considered a reasonable expression of
England’s scorn for Chinese atrocities. Ten
years later most Englishmen had come to
deplore it as an act of idiotic vandalism.
Suppose the Papacy were guilty of all the
crimes charged against it by every Orange
Lodge in the British Empire; it would
still be poor statecraft to exile the Pope to
Galilee. An action may amount to insan-
ity, in fact, even though it is arguable in
principle. The Sultan, the criminal ana-
chronism whom so many have clamored to
have booted unceremoniously across the
Bosphorus, is the Pope of Islam; there are
72,000,000 Mohammedans in India alone;
and it is no more likely to nay the British
Empire to outrage their religious principles
than it would pay it to insult the same
number of Catholics or Jews or Methodists.
In point of fact, the first faint rumors of
the possibility of the removal of the Cali-
phate caused a panic in India. A Bombay
cable (17/10/’l9) mentioned that “the
Mohammedans had set a day apart for
prayer for the permanence of the Khalifa’s
temporal power” ; and the Hindus used the
occasion to strengthen the bonds between
the Mohammedans and themselves by re-
maining indoors fasting and praying.
Meanwhile Bolshevism has reached India;
another Afghan War has occurred (Afghan-
istan is exclusively and fiercely Mohamme-
dan) ; and the Middle East generally is boil-
ing with rage and distrust. From their
point of view they do well to boil, then-
assumption being that the capital of their
religious world (a world which numbers
300,000.000 inhabitants) is to be torn from
its divinely-appointed ruler, and that all else
which goes to make the Ottoman Empire a
power is to be confiscated. They might be
able to bear the sacrilege better if Britain
had not repeatedly promised that nothing
of the sort would happen. Only two years
ago this month Lloyd George, as Prime
Minister, said: “The Empire is not fight-
ing to deprive Turkey of its capital, or of
the rich and renowned lands of Asia Minor
and Thrace .”
There are other considerations besides the
tranquillity of India and the nation’s pledged
word. Every reasonable human being wants
a just peace. No one but the extreme Jin-
goes of the different Powers desires that his
country shall benefit to a conspicuous extent
at the expense of any other country, large
or small. There is danger in aggrandisement
on such lines; and the whole world is suffer-
ing more or less from war-shock. Britain
has done perilously well, from a territorial
point of view, already. The Turk is out. of
Egypt for good. Mesopotamia and Palestine
are for all practical purposes British, and
not a yard has been yielded up anywhere.
The exile of the Sultan and the establish-
ment of a British mandate over Constan-
tinople and Turkey-in-Europe (and it is
absurd to think of any other Power effectively
exercising such a mandate) would put the
British Empire in exactly the same position
in reference to fertile Turkey as it stepped
into in Egypt after the defeat of Arabi by
Wolseley at Tel-el-Kebir. That is to. say,
in a false position in the eyes of its friends
and in a sinister one in those of its enemies.
It is on just such issues that the Dominions
have a right to be heard. Australia and the
rest leapt into the recent fray with eager-
ness because they were persuaded that. the
fight was for freedom and justice. It is a
fact, even though it may not be the fault of
the Lloyd George or any Government, that
there is rather less freedom in the world to-
day than there was in 1914, or earlier, and
no more justice. Ireland is under martial


law. So is much of India. Egypt is being
held down with difficulty ; and the army of
.Mesopotamia is never entirely idle. Persia
is nominally independent. It was so before
the war. The difference is that it has ex-
changed the lax supervision of defunct Rus-
sia for the active, business-like control of
Downing-street. The position is an excel-
lent one for a small class of Englishmen, who
chiefly do their business in the City of Lon-
don ; but there are many Australians, Cana-
dians, Maorilanders and others who would
not have fought, and maybe died, in the
years that have fled if they had suspected
that the chief fruit of victory, all said and
done, was to be oil concessions in Persia or
the exploitation of Constantinople.
It is axiomatic with certain Imperialists
that the Turk is an unmitigated blackguard,
and as incapable of governing himself or any
one else as the Indians—or the Irish. But
why should the Turks’ villainy involve the
virtual theft of his property? Like the use
of tanks in Dublin, the chasing of the Cali-
phate into Asia and similar measures suggest
ulterior motives. They are the methods of
the old-style predatory Jingoes; whereas
most of the inhabitants of the Empire are
looking to the new diplomacy not for provo
cativeness, but for more equity and peace—
above all things, peace. The decision to leave
Islam uncrucified will be welcomed by thou-
sands of those who helped to win the war if
only because it makes other wars a good
deal less likely.
D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cost of Educating' Theodore.
The Premier (Mr. Theodore) said that Ministers
sympathised with the unemployed, but they must
remember that most of them had been employed by
Private Enterprise. Now because work was slack
they expected the Government to find them employ-
ment. The Government had put men on railway
construction and other public works involving an
expenditure of £1,000,000. The expenditure from
the loan fund this year would be £4,000,000.
Obviously the Government could not continue
THAT SORT OF THING.
The plaint of the sorrowful Premier of
Queensland is that men are leaving or being
shoved out of private employment where they
were engaged on work that was self-support-
ing—it had to be self-supporting because pri-
vate employers aren’t allowed to charge their
losses to the taxpayer—and are coming to howl
by hundreds and thousands at his door. And
such insufficient work as he can offer them
ont of his dull imagination is the building,
with money borrowed at well over 6 per
cent., of railways which pay 13s. 9d. per
cent., so that every million spent that way
adds £50,000 a year to the tax bill and will
soon add more. Of course men are being
pushed out of self-supporting private employ-
ment and coming to howl by hundreds and
thousands at Theodore’s portal. The whole
policy of his Government has been to destroy
private employment by loading it with taxes
such as were never dreamed of in Australia
before; by encouraging strikes; by lending
countenance to the idea that the private
employer is an enemy to be injured in every
way; and by setting up a standard of wages,
paid out of loans and charged to posterity,
with which the private employer can’t com-
pete. The very last great effort of Ryan
before he fled was a Bill providing that a
sort of tribunal should be created with
power to order the private employer to do
any old thing at his own expense to provide
work, useless or otherwise. All this would
have been good policy if a public employer,
who had sense enough to run enterprises
that would pay and not live on taxation and
loans, was there to fill the private man’s
place; but tfie Theodore crowd is a mental
blank in a constructive sense. It has been
4J years building Paradise, and the result is
that, even after raising the loan expenditure
to £4,000,000 a year to provide work, it is
still surrounded by an unhappy-looking
crowd of workless folk. Every time it gets
two or three hundred men and their families
away from private employ it has about 1000
more people to keep out of loans (for it can’t
put them all in the State meat-shops) and
1.000 less self-supporting people to pay the
loss on the loans. Theodore says this
“can’t continue.” But unless the whole
Theodore policy is reversed and cursed and
denounced and discredited it must continue
on a bigger scale than ever, or half the
population will starve. There aren’t enough
loans now to keep the Ryan-TheodorE
policy going, as is evidenced by the fact that
the unemployed are far more numerous in
Queensland than in any other State, and
unless £6,000,000 a year can be found real
trouble may be looked for.
The House Famine Promoting
Movement.
If all goes well the House Famine Promot-
ing Movement will start on February 1.
The proposition is that, on and after that
date, builders’ hours of work in Melbourne
and Sydney at least should he reduced to
40 per week (five eight-hour days), and that
wages should be 2s. 6d. per hour minimum.
The matter was expounded by circular from
the Building Trades Council: —
There never was an opportunity in the whole history
of Australia when those employed in the building
trades had such a chance.... Work was never so
plentiful and labor never so scarce. This is the great
opportunity for getting the too-long-talked-about
week of five days.
The demand for more pay is reasonable
enough—in fact, there can’t be too much
pay if good and intelligent work is done
to earn it; not useless work like spending
loan money on putting down bits of railway
that will never pay, nor mere animal work
like dragging about loads on a wharf, but
something profitable and necessary, with
brains in it. The ambition for a minimum
wage of £5 per week really isn’t much of
an ambition, after all. Men of the upstand-
ing sort should aim at something higher.
But the demand for Less Work, on which
the chief stress is laid —Less Work when, as
the circular alleges, there was never a time
when so much work was waiting to be done
—is base and stupid and cruel. ’The 44-hour
week doesn’t increase production to a point
at which the worker is liable to be stranded
in a glutted market, and by working 44
hours men at 2s. 6d. an hour (if 2s. 6d.
an hour is feasible) would earn £5
IDs. By the Building Trades Council’s
own showing 44 hours per week is not
nearly sufficient to keep pace with the de-
mand. Yet it is proposed that the employees
should work only 40 hours and put up with
a minimum of £5, taking out the other 10s.
in the joy and satisfaction of making other
people, mostly their fellow-workers, miser-
ably for want of decent house-room, and
helping to kill a few’ babies through lack of
the sort of homes that babies ought to live
in. Labor leaders of a poor sort, men who
were wholly devoid of constructive ability
and had no gospel to preach save that of
strike, have elevated loafing—loafing, not
leisure —into a cardinal virtue, high above
patriotism, honesty, courage, truth or charit-
ableness and miles ahead of intelligence.
But it is something beyond mere loafing
when other workers are admittedly in dire
straits for want of w y hat the building class
supplies and that fact is put forward as
a reason why the supply should be dimin-
ished and the position made worse. That
comes under the heading of brutality.
Modern Developments and Aboriginal
Views.
A few years before he died Lawrence Har-
grave offered what he considered the best of
his models to the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment. The official reply was that there
ivas “no room for it.” He tried the British
Government. London said, in effect, thi.t
it wasn’t particularly interested, but, if the
inventor would pack and ship his contriv-
ance himself, it would be housed some-
where on arrival in England. So he com-
municated with Germany. The Huns’ reply
w r as to send an expert to Sydney to remove
the precious offering—for Hargrave, be it.
remembered, was even then a European
celebrity. Australia is still officially blind
to the arrival of the flying era. Not so
England, however. It was thoroughly
schooled in the significance—beneficent and
the reverse—of aviation during 1917 and
1918, and it is taking no more chances.
General Sykes’s report of the first six
months’ working of the Air Navigation Act
is just to hand. It has justified itself as
fully as any marine navigation laws that
were ever passed. Flying has been made
safer for the public as well as for the
pilots, and as a direct result the industry is
forging ahead in a wonderful manner.
During the half-year after the civil regula-
tions came into force 303.000 miles were
covered in the air, mostly in short flights;
no passengers were even injured (52,000
were carried), and only two pilots were
killed. But the business is still going for-
ward too slowly for the national safety.
The Government intends therefore to sub-
sidise it. Sums may be paid annually to
firms which build aircraft; or pilots may
be subsidised on a mileage basis. But the
strongest incentive to induce private citizens
to train as pilots, and to break machines
in the process, at their own expense, is ex-
pected to be that which has long existed in
France. That is the provision of aerial har-
bors- —aerodromes and hangars in which
machines may find safe anchorage. There
is one of these places handy to every decent-
sized town in France; one man suffices to
keep them in order and collect the fees; and
most, of them are already paying the
municipalities which own them. Such js
the trend of things on the other side of the
world. And, it may be mentioned, in Japan.
Only in Australia is there absolute inertia
The Federal Parliament can’t pass a valid
Air Navigation Act unless the States hand
over their powers in the matter of aerial
legislation—powers which the States can’t
effectively use and which they never would
have acquired if the flying era had been
foreseen when the Australian Constitution
was framed. As to aerodromes and their
appurtenances, the country is practically
devoid of them. The different Governments
are as disinterested in them as they were in
Lawrence Hargrave ; as the aborigines in
the 18th century were in wharves. An
attitude of primitive incredulity in regard
to modern progress is unedifying in a
Government in any circumstances. Applied
to flying, in view of the strides in the
business that are being made by some of oar
potential enemies, the thing amounts to a
crime.
«.
The Pacific Islands.
Dear Bulletin, —There are no cheers
from the Pacific Islands for Burns-Philp’s
record profits. We in the Solomons have
vivid memories of between £lO and £l9 per
ton being paid for copra during the war
period, and of copra being sold for God
knows what in the U.S.A. —B.P. admit to
about £4O per ton as an average for 1917.
It is admirable to extend Australian trade;
but don’t ask us poor battlers to pay for
the trade fights! A pound or two per ton
extra during the war would have made all
the difference to us. We were smitten hip
and thigh by the great increase in our costs
for goods and labor, amounting to practi-
cally 300 per cent., whilst our copra averaged
less than that obtaining during the pre-war
year. The Commonwealth should realise
that there are interests in the Islands out-
side B.P. This should be borne in mind
when the question of Island Administration
is under consideration in Melbourne.
“Tevoro” and a Rabaul correspondent, writ-
ing to The Bulletin from different parts of
the Pacific, have struck the apprehensive
note which is vibrating throughout the
Islands. Whilst their affairs are in the
melting-pot, immature groups like the
British Solomons suffer from lack of repre-
sentation at headquarters. Our distances
and sparse, scattered population are against
organisation. Despite these great natural
obstacles we have built up a Planters’
Association which is thoroughly representa-
tive, and which is the only political force in
the group! It has received recognition from
the local Administration, and it should re-
ceive Commonwealth recognition when Solo-
mon Island matters are under discussion in
Australia. There is a latent antagonism in the
Commonwealth which is difficult to define. It
apparently has its roots in the disposition of
Australia to hearken to the voice of B.P. on
Island matters as to the voice of a god. The
islands want to speak for themselves. They
don’t want to use any harsh words about
the big company. But they do insist that
the interests of the men who must be looked
to to make of the islands an asset of value
to the Commonwealth not only are not
identical with B.P.’s interests, but often are
in conflict with them.—Yours, Gizo.
The Liquor Referendum Swindle.
Announcement has been made of the terms
of the Liquor Referendum which is to be
submitted to the people of N. S. Wales some
time within the next 18 months, and it is
the fraud that was expected. The ques-
tions proposed are two:—
Whether prohibition with compensation shall come
into force throughout New South Wales ?
What hour licensed premises and clubs shall close
(if prohibition isn’t carried) ?
The second question is of small importance,
but in the first one there is suppression of
a most essential fact. It ought to read: —
Whether prohibition with compensation paid out
of loans to an indefinite amount shall come into
force throughout N. S. Wales?
The scheme is that an immense and quite
indefinite sum shall be borrowed at high and
indefinite interest for a purpose that won’t
provide a cent of revenue towards paying
interest, but will actually reduce the revenue.
And, in addition to raising loans to reduce
revenue, it is proposed that it shall be law-
ful to_raise loans to pay interest on these
revenue-destroying loans. This comes at
a time when there is open talk about the
possibility of charging some of the railway
men’s wages to loans and the building of
new schools out of loans, and when the Gov-
ernment has a £13,000,0u0 loan policy on
hand for the year in addition. When the
full iniquity of the proposed Liquor Revenue-
Destroying Loan is known among the people
who lend money, it may be the last straw
which will break the back of credit. There
always is a last straw. It is not a question,
then, of prohibition. It is a question of
simple honesty and national solvency. On
the first point, a nation has no right to
charge its drinks to posterity, and not a
shred more right to charge posterity with
the cost of swearing off.
The Port in the Wrong Place.
Melrourne is in trouble again, and there is
talk of spending another £6,000,000 to deepen
the absurdly long channel between the Heads
and the absurdly inaccessible city, and
qualify it to accommodate modern vessels.
But it is added that the great work will
take 30 years in addition to a lot of money,
and the port is already five years behind the
times, so that ocean monsters sometimes go
away only part-loaded lest they should be-
come too deep and bump. If, then, the last
fragment of the work can’t be finished for
30 years, the harbor, so far as that last frag-
ment is concerned, will be 35 years behind.
And if the ocean monsters have grown bigger
all the time, the end of the 30 years may find
the whole job another 40 years in arrear.
Melbourne was born with a bad omen, said
omen being Batman’s (real or legendary)
remark that he had found “a good place to
build a village.” It always was the right
place for a village and never the right place
for a seaport city. It was recognised early
that the Yarra was a ditch, and despite a
vast amount of costly patching it remains
a ditch. Port Melbourne and Williamstovyn
took a lot of expensive construction, and the
long channel across the shallow inland sea
of Port Phillin has been a sink for money.
Despite all expenditure they were always a
bit behind the times, and now, with the reck-
less growth of ships, they are further be-
hind than ever. Yet Melbourne, founded be-
cause it was so high up the Yarra that the
river was drinkable and because it was a
promising place for a village, secured a lot
of voting power before its hopelessness be-
came apparent, secured the Governor, Par-
liament, Government offices, the whole
control of things, the railway terminus
and all the political pull. It has
lived on them ever since lik-e a duke
on his ill-gotten title-deeds. Within
a few miles is the almost deserted inlet of
Westernport, over a great stretch of which
there are 42ft. of natural water at low tide,
while Melbourne struggles at vast expense
to maintain 32ft. of artificial slush. Western-
port lacks the necessary population to make
a fuss —the vested interests which accumu-
lated round the Port in the Wrong Place see
to that. So does Portland, at the other end
of the State, worth a dozen of Melbourne in
all that makes a harbor city, but with its
railway and shipping arrangements so crip-
pled bv Melbourne devices that its ponnio-
tion numbers about 2500. The closure of these
fine harbors may look like a gain to the
Great Mistake called Melbourne, which goes
on the policy that the commercial work of
the State bad better be done badly or done
ruinously or not done at all rather than
done by any place save itself. But it is a
loss to Victoria and the Commonwealth.
.
The Eternal Remedy.
Within a day or two after the stoppage of
the Lithgow ironworks (brought about by
4| years building Paradise, and the result is
on the N.S.W. railways) and the consequent
throwing of many men out of work, almost
every State Labor candidate said that the
event carried a great lesson. The lesson
was that the iron industry must be nation-
alised—-put under the control of politicians,
the said politicians being their infallible
selves. Hardly one of them had managed
an important industry or any sort of in-
dustry in his life, but because they had
secured the nomination of a small crowd of
admirers called a league—possibly, as in one
notorious case, by the aid of “mysterious
postal votes” which were loudly declared to
be more or less forgeries—they put it forth
as a self-evident proposition that they could
control a vast, intricate, highly-technical
business better than anybody else. If art
instead of iron had been in question they
would doubtless have held that the local
league nomination as candidate for Balmain
or some place qualified them to nationalise
the job of Rembrandt, and paint master-
pieces. Painting masterpieces is also a
specialist’s job, but to a man with a turn
that way it is no more intricate than run-
ning a foundry. The fact is that the com-
munity grows a little tired and more than
a little alarmed about trusting vast interests
to people who won’t take the trouble to
learn the ABC of their business. The dictum
or rs. to. waxes wabor-ieader Storey that “it
is easy to run the country if one is honest”
(and most dogs and lunatics are honest) is
the keynote to the attitude of the new men
who are busy making Public Enterprise a
disease and a disgrace. The kind of manage-
ment they supply is easy enough, and the
community has their own word foir the
honesty. Nationalisation began as a device
for eliminating the private shark and reserv-
ing the profits for the people. Now there
are no profits to reserve except in such rare
cases as the Commonwealth Bank, where
an autocrat of the “capitalistic class” is in
charge and politicians are rigidly excluded.
Elsewhere Public Enterprise has become a
vast circumlocution office where the
Barnacle family has a vested interest to
give little and poor work for outrageously
high pay—outrageously high in view of re-
sults. The fact that the Barnacles are of
John Storey’s class instead of the British
peerage class makes no difference. They have
the same contempt for “the Public” —a word
which the famous Barnacle of fiction pro-
nounced with difficulty and a shudder—and
the same profound belief that “the Public”
exists to support Barnacles. The trouble
in the matter of the N. S. Wales nationalised
railways, and the Lithgow works which it is
proposed to “nationalise,” begins with the
interest bill. It is twice what it was when
John Storey’s party first attained office in
1910, loan money having been spent like
muddy water on nationalised works, not one
of which really pays for its maintenance.
The money was spent to a very great extent
to keep Barnacles, and the burden which
Storey and co. heaped on the country in
nine years equalled the record of the 57
preceding years. Fifteen N. S. Wales
nationalised railways don’t even pay work-
ing expenses—the State didn’t want them,
but jobs had to be found for Barnacles.
It is the needless interest and the loss on
needless railways, and not the increase of
wages, which drove the railway management
to that violent rise of rates that temporarily
shut up the Lithgow works. The remedy
blandly propounded by Labor leaders of the
new school is to take over the works and
run them a's an additional Circumlocution
Office or preserve for their own Barnacle
family—to run them with the same wealth
of ignorance and lack of principle which
characterises other works, and charge th
annual loss to the community for the benefit
of Barnacles. This is nationalisation of a
sort—the works would belong to the State
just as Lotus XlV.’s palace of Versailles be-
longed to France or the Crown Jewels belong
to Britain. But that sort of Public Enter-
prise is far more costly and less efficient
than Private Enterprise, and it is no more
national.
«
Sudden Discovery that the N.S.W.
Nationalist Flag is the Jolly Roger.
Some of the crew of the N. S. Wales
Nationalist ship have been making panic
rushes at the boats of late, and have also
made many attempts to push the skipper
overboard. There is a powerful odor
of cant about the proceedings. Men of the
type of J. Macartiiur Onslow only real-
ised the other day apparently that Holman
was not a “true Nationalist.” God only
knows what a “true Nationalist” is, but it
is certain that Holman has been nothing
different from an old-style State Laborite
ever since he took the helm. The voice, in
some of its inflections, might have been that
of Dives, but the hands were always those
of Demos. Yet Onslow, Ley and the rest
of the righteous ones messed with him in
outward amity for years. Only when doubts
began to arise as to his popularity with
the owners did they begin to discover that
he was not an Honest British Salt at all,
but a Pirate King. In similar vein the
Farmers and Settlers’ party is now making
a lugubrious noise about the Wheat Scandal.
It would be highly edifying but for the fact
that the wheat scandal is as much the
Farmers and Settlers’ property as anyone’s.
They were concerned in the administration
of the Wheat Pool from the beginning. Their
president, Trethowan, was the Govern-
ment’s first nominee. “At a later point,” to
quote Justice Pring, “Mr. Drummond, who
was strongly recommended by the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association, was appointed by
Mr. Grahame as manager.” The Farmers
and Settlers in their eagerness to purge
their old offence of association with Hol-
manism are doing as idiotic a thing from the
standpoint of their supporters as Onslow,
Ley and the rest. They are forming a sepa-
rate party. It can never, in the nature of
things, be a centre party able to employ
third-party tactics to wring concessions from
the Government. It must simply be a Tory
wing of the Nationalist organisation whose
chief work will be to act as a brake on all
progress. This is said on the assumption
that the bucolics are not going to turn
from the party which contains Holman,
his views and his supporters, to the party
which features the fantastic schemes of
John Storey. There would be some justi-
fication for them if they had cut adrift from
Nationalism on an Elective Ministries
ticket. But most of them are hostile to
anything of the sort. What they seem most
likely to do, in the name of sound govern-
ment and the political virtues generally,
is to put the Storey party where it can
effect at least some of its demented pro-
gramme. Failing that they will prevent the
other side from achieving anything at all.
Such are the calamities which follow when
the common or hedge-politician suddenly gets
integrity-conscious.
♦
The Rahab Amongst the Professions.
The J. C. Williamson firm furnished the
public, with the managers’ case against the
Australian Actors’ Association last week:—
One of the strongest reasons of the managers’
opposition to the registration of the federation has
been in consequence of the appeal made to them by
eminent actors and actresses. These ladies and
gentlemen, while deeply appreciative of and sym-
pathetic with all the objects of unionism, maintain
that their calling, which ranks high amongst the
intellectual professions, does not synchronise in any
manner whatever with even the most skilful of *
modern crafts.
The ladies and gentlemen who decline to
“synchronise with” (a genteel idiom, pre-
sumably, for “have no time for”) modern
crafts are, as they might put it, setting


T h ? Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA us M‘ a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
“springes to catch woodcock.” More collo-
quially, they are barking up the wrong tree.
Thousands are unionists without being
laborers in the conventional sense. For ex-
ample, journalists, doctors, barristers, solici-
tors. dentists —in short, members of prac-
tically all the “intellectual professions.” A
few days ago there arrived in Australia, on
an 18-months’ engagement, a Yankee cleric
Aho calls himself "The Singing Parson.” His
main object in coming here is to “direct pub-
lic attention to the absolute inadequacy of
the pay of the average minister of the
Gospel.” He does not advertise the starva-
tion wages of salvation in the U.S. by prac-
tising in this country as a lawyer or a
doctor: he would be excluded from our Courts
by the Bar Council even though he had the
eloquence and learning of a Choate ; and the
B.M.A. would rule him out if he were another
Barker. It is to the stage he turns like
every other amateur. If a John L.
Sullivan or a Jack Dempsey attains
eminence in the business of knocking people
insensible, he at once enters into com-
petition with actors. The same applies to
prominent divorcees. The murderer Crippen
had an offer of “a princely salary” for six
months —subject to his acquittal. The
Tivoli management recently offered a num-
ber of young women three times the salary
of trained show-girls; and one of the
stipulations was that they should be un-
trained. It is, in part, to put a stop to
this sort of thing—that is, to the pros-
titution of the stage at the hands of pub-
licity-mongers—that the Actors’ Associa-
tion has been formed in London and the
Chorus Girls’ Union in New York. Some
of the most distinguished players in the
world are, or have been, proud to belong to
such organisations—men of the type of
Norman Mclvinnel and the late Sydney
Valentine ; women such as Lilian Braitii-
waite and Marie Dressler. They are
proud because the objects are as much ethi-
cal and artistic as they are material.
Firstly, it is desired to give show-girls
and the like who may wish to “go straight”
at least a sporting chance to do so. Not
until this is achieved will the inebriated
pavement-nymph begin to desist, on being
interrogated by the police, from describing
herself as “an actress.” Later it is in-
tended to train actors and actresses, as is
done at the Theatre Frangaise in Paris;
and to issue diplomas and degrees in the
same way as the accredited controlling
bodies of the other professions. And so
at long last shall acting come into its own
as a reputable calling. The pathetic asses
who are standing in the way, from a snob-
bish dread of being confused with unionists,
may play the managers’ game for a little
while longer. But it can only be for a
little while.
The point of view of a “regular” :
The proposal to thank Monash at the bar of the
House (B. 8/l/’2O) and ignore Chauvet, is just an-
other example of the unconscious prejudice against
regulars; for though Monash's record is wonderful,
Chauvkj/s is the better of the two. Both became
lieut.-generals and commanded corps, but Chauvej,
got there first. Chauvel’s command was the largest
body of horse used in modern war, and its leadership
was coveted by the greatest cavalrymen of all the
Allied nations. Monash's force was only one of
scores of similar formations. Chauvel’s capture of
Damascus probably had just as much to do with
ending the war as Monash's breaching of the Hin-
denburg line. History will, I believe, have much
more to say of Damascus, the taking of which was
a unique event, than of Monash's feat, which was
almost unnoticed out of Australia. Chauvel had
only one man over him. He was to Allenby what
Murat was to Napoleon. Monash was down on the
fourth step, with Rawlinson, Haig and Foch higher
up. Some Americans were attached to Monash for
a short period, but Chauvel had British and Indian
troops for years, and it was largely because he
treated all alike and refused to favor his Aussies that
he became unpopular. Australian methods suited
the Yanks but not the Tommies and Indians. The
fact that Monasii was a citizen officer should make
no difference. He has been a soldier for 30 years
and the citizen officer has quite as much time to
study the higher phases of the art of war as his
permanent comrade. The latter’s days are taken up
with the petty details of administration, while
Monash (originally an artillery officer) in his pro-
fession of civil-engineer was constantly studying
ground and getting the best training possible for
the European war, which was almost entirely gun
and spade work. Both are the same age, but
Chauvelj is the senior both in the A.I.F. and in
Australia. He has the longer service, including 10
years as a citizen officer, and he served in South
Africa, which Monash didn’t. The writer has worked
with Monash and yields to no one in admiration
of him, but contends that, had Chauvel been still a
citizen officer, he would have been much more
boomed and feted. The present ungracious attitude
is a slight not only on the General but on the whole
of the Australian mounted troops, whose performances
are unequalled in history.
“Bromide”: “Sixo” (B. 8/l/’2O) app-ears
to have had a rough spin in connection with
his V.D. treatment. But he has only him-
self to thank for his apparent neglect, for
the A.I.F. offered plenty of opportunities to
men with V.D. to receive proper treatment.
and tlu-v were always encouraged to take
advamage of them. Before leaving Blighty
the M.O. held a Y.D. examination of every
man on the nominal roll of the transport.
Many men, anxious to return, bluffed
through this examination —quite an easy
matter. In addition the S.M.O. was required
to sign a certificate that each man suffering
from V.D. was offered treatment before em-
barking. Arseno-benzol (606) was supplied
to some transports but not all, but was fre-
quently looted from those that did receive it.
Another medical store to suffer in this way
Was the blue-light (prophylactic) outfit, for
which there appears to be a ready sale—a
certain indication of its utility. “Sixo’s”
statement that just prior to arrival in Aus-
tralia all cases were discharged from hospital
and no more notice taken of them appears
exceptional. The practice was to hand over
Y.D. cases to an escort for further treatment.
At the final Medical Board, held at the port
of disembarkation. “Sixo” had a further
opportunity to obtain treatment, but evi-
dently failed to mention his complaint. In
conclusion, the number of admissions to No.
1 A.D.H., Bulford, show that the majority
of the sufferers from Y.D. took advantage
of the arrangements made by the A.A.M.C.
for their cure before returning home.
At the moment of writing something over
20 doctors want to put their case for the
ruling-out of German practitioners. There
is room for two: —
“No. 9.”: Randolph Bedford (B. 8/l/’2O) pleads
for the German doctors, and particularly for Herz.
llerz’s success does not in any way prove that
there are no other equally skilful orthopaedic sur-
geons in N. S. Wales. Let Bedford study the records
of the bigger hospitals and he will there find
equal marvels recorded. Perhaps, if it were proved
CANUTE and the waves.
ANTI-PROFITEERING.— THE NEW ACT. —COMMISSISION Has Unlimited Powers—S. M. Herald headings.
THE COMMISSION : “ It may be true that I've got unlimited powers, but evidently these
leaves haven't heard of it.”
that no one else in Australia can do the work with
the same ability, Bedford might in part (and only
in part) be justified in his otherwise incomprehen-
sible defence of an unnecessary Hun. But such
proof is not possible. Herz has not been to the
war. Is it likely that he is as completely in touch
with the later .developments of orthopaedic surgery
as those men who have had the opportunity of
first-hand study of the remarkable march in this
branch? The war showed that the doctor is as
much a necessary part of the army as artillery is.
It is a national duty therefore to give all possible
encouragement (which means the available work) to
those doctors who can be depended upon to do
medical service for the country in case of war —-
which is liable to be in these days a struggle for
life.
“Wickham Terrace”: No one denies that Herz
may be smart. But he is not indispensable. Ortho-
pat die surgery has advanced tremendously since the
war started, and even before that we had some first-
class orthopedists of Australian birth. The big
thing is this: Why should we in Australia, with our
own well-equipped universities, license for practice
here men from foreign countries who will not recipro-
cate or recognise Australian diplomas? I would like
to see Bedford, supposing he had an Australian
degree, try to start practice in, say, Berlin, or Italy
or Spain. He would get short shrift. Yet here our
Governments welcome all sorts of foreigners, and
if they speak more or less broken English and sur-
round themselves with a little mystery, their “cures
are lauded at the expense of the good work done
by the Australian-born practitioners.
N. S. Wales Minister Hall, unfolding to
a Sydney crowd of State employees his plan
for acquiring houses by a sort of magic,
spoke the usual piece about the wonders of
the time-payment system. His own father
and mother, he said, in the course of 50 or
60 years had paid away a lot in rent, and
supposing they had devoted the money in-
stead to buying property on the instalment
plan they might now have owned a
street of houses. They might, and the
chances are that if tlfey had they would now
be trying to sell them on time-payment
rather than let them for rent. The rentlord
is supposed to be a thirsty bloodsucker ; yet
there are so many people who are ready to
forego the bloodsucking and give you a
chance to grow rich by becoming your own
landlord that there is hardly a man or a
dog in Australia that isn’t being pressed to
buy a house on long terms, while people
who want to take you down on the rent
dodge are almost as scarce as Presbyterian
Jesuits. Possibly they lack faith in the
boom, and note the vast possibilities of
future taxation, and know that when a
house grows old (and some houses grow old
very young) the repair bill is like the
awakening of a boa-constrictor after a long
rest. Certainly an inspection of their noses
doesn’t suggest that philanthropy is the
only thing wrong with them.
In the U.S.A. it has been the custom to
allow a territory which hadn't enough people
to qualify as a State to have Federal repre-
sentatives who could make speeches but not
vote. It was found that a man who could
stonewall and lobby and buttonhole was
almost as useful to his constituents without
a vote as with one. When Australia fixes
up its territories on some such plan the
people at Darwin ought to hunt for men as
like Bigjohn Forrest as possible-—not Bol-
sheviks or red-flaggers, but big, ox-like pullers.
Bigjohn went into Federal politics for a
State which, if it had possessed 7000 less
people, would have been the baby of the
Commonwealth. He had very little visible
backing, but he dug .all his hoofs in and
pulled. And on the bland plea that W est-
ralia had the richest goldfield in Australia
and one of the richest in the world, and was
in less need of aid than anybody else, Big-
john dragged out a separate tariff for his
State, a grant of £2,050,000, and a
£7,000,000 railway through the biggest desert
in the British Empire —a railway which
loses £286,000 a year and doesn’t m_eet with
a reliable pint of fresh water in 1050 miles.
With a man like that pulling at Darwin the
North, with its vastly better prospects,
would have had a double line of rails through
long ago and a jewelled cow-catcher on the
engine.
Webster discovered in the course of the
Gwydir campaign what most laurel-wreathed
politicians have found out in Australia, the
folly of mixing poetry and politics. At
every turn he met with reminders of his in-
discretion. He couldn’t hold a meeting with-
out the foe appealing to him for a recita-
tion, or entering a protest because the ora-
tion was not in rhyme. But the horridest
blow of all came to the P.M.G. in a far cor-
ner where, under a hotel verandah, he found
himself being introduced to a dozen electors
by an ardent admirer, with the words: “You
know Mr. Webster? Of course you do.
Wrote ‘The Sentimental Bloke,’ you know.”
Randolph Bedford writes :
I suppose you know how W. M. Hughes helped
Walkers, Ltd., of Maryborough (Q.), to build ships.
Walkers chased a job of that sort for two years,
and about two years ago Hughes gave them an order
for four steel vessels. They built the ways and gear,
and then they waited for plates. The- first lot came
to hand a few months ago —all of 30 tons! And after
that supplies stopped again. Other misused iron-
masters are Morison and Bearby, of Newcastle.
Weeks before Britain came into the war Morison
and Bearby were repairing the German steamer
Wotan. If they had thought only of their money
the Wotan would have won safely to sea, but the
good Australians held back on a new funnel long
enough for the Wotan to get pinched. The Com-
monwealth Government promised to pay for the
repairs on the interned ship (which, since then, has
earned barrels of money), and the Commonwealth
hasn’t paid up yet. She was injured by a torpedo in
the Mediterranean, and the Italian shipyard that re-
paired her was paid highly and quickly; yet this
Australian firm has been out of its money for nearly
51 years. It is still promised, of course; but 51
years of chasing a deferring Government maketh the
heart sick.
Bill has always been a popular chap in
Bananaland Assembly. Back in 1884 Bill
Groom was Speaker, and in the last 10 years
the following other Bills have been in the
chair; Armstrong, McCormack, Lennon and
now Bertram. Bill Forgan Smith has jus
been appointed permanent Chairman of Com-
mittees, while Bill Hamilton presides over
the old fellows in the nominee House.
The tribute of Vic.’s oldest gallery-man:
Barton as leader of the Federal Convention at the
Melbourne session in 1898, as Prime Minister at the
opening of the first session of the Commonwealth
Parliament under the dome at the Exhibition Build-
ing in 1901, as one of the three Judges when the
High Court sat for the first time in the Banco
Court in 1903, and as a mourner at the funeral service
for Deakin in Queen’s Hall, will never be forgotten
by those who saw him. He comported himself in the
manner in which they would have a great Australian
do it. It mattered not whether the best in Australian
democracy, or royalty, or the proudest of British
aristocracy, or the smartest of Americans applied
the tests. He would pass them all. To become a
partner with N. S. Wales in the ownership of Barton
was in itself an argument for Federation.
“0.L.”: A section of Melbourne’s train-
travellers has started an agitation to exclude
women from smoking compartments. Some-
thing should be said on the other side. Per-
sonally, I prefer to have a lady or two of
the right sort in my smoker. They prevent
loud arguments and tend to keep herding
males above the hog-level to which, for some
inexplicible reason, they are prone to
descend when mobbed together in a smoker.
Besides, why deny woman the undoubted
satisfaction which lots of her find in the com-
pany of a pipe? If she can get pleasure or
comfort from tobacco without actually
smoking it, what less right has she in the
smoker than a' man who is merely seeking
the same pleasure or comfort?
In politics the popular thing at the
moment is to be a farmer. The days when
the lawyer sat for every second seat is gone:
in the new House of Reps, there are only
nine lawyers as against 10 users of the other
sort of harrows. There are six agents, live
graziers, four journalists of sorts, two each
of doctors, merchants, miners, engineers,
storekeepers, auctioneers and members of
Parliament. Likewise seats have been
marked by one (each) produce merchant,
traveller, hatter, tailor, laborer, shearer,
plumber, artist, clerk, plasterer, watch-
maker, selector, greengrocer, contractor,
pattern-maker, ex-railway officer, electrician
and manufacturer. One manufacturer!
But there is also one “Minister of the Navy.’
That is Jokook’s description of his occupa-
tion.
“Hamer”: All communities of the John
Bull family are commencing to hand out
authority to women, in recognition of the
rights about which Mrs. Bull and her
daughters have been talking during the last
decade or so. But the method of distribu-
tion is crude. A large proportion of the
jobs are simply passed over to the wives of
men who have made themselves notable.
Thus Mrs. Lloyd George becomes one of
England’s first female magistrates just be-
cause she is Mrs. Lloyd George. England
also chose for its first woman M.P. the wife
of the previous member. Even in Australia
the same principle is recognised: a woman
gets public positions because she is the wife
of somebody or another. It is very nice and
polite; but does this sort of thing satisfy
the feminist demand? Where does the
equality come in if the woman gets recog-
nition not for herself but for what her hus-
band has done?
“ J.E.”: One feature of Edmund Barton’s
life-story that hasn’t been much emphasised
is that he was a pioneer. He did something
that was never done before in all history
and is not at all likely to be done again.
Therefore he was more unusual than Alex-
ander the Great or Julius Caesar and- more
surprising than Moses. He was the first
Prime Minister of a continent with one
Government and one speech. There may
one day be a first Prime Minister of Europe
or Asia or Africa or America, but if the
one-speech difficulty isn’t got over he won’t
be another Barton. Later the language prob-
lem may be got over and there may be a
Prime Minister under the new conditions,
but not being the first head of the Govern-
ment in his continent he won’t be Barton
either. The unassuming Justice of the High
Court who has departed was, when one
comes to think of it, the most lonesome
figure on earth ; the most lonesome in His-
tory ; the most lonesome, so far as we know,
in Time. I say nothing about Space, not
being acquainted with it.


[James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and Edmund Fisher, Old Exchange.
Melbourne. ]
CSSS
cil3
mu
»
IS
(i
.1 -
n»
WALNVJ
Imitra ans Floor^Varnish.
Taubmans Extra Hard Floor Varnish
Stains give floors a subdued gloss finish in
Oak, Walnut, and Mahogany, that endures
hard wear, is heel-proof and non-slipping.
These Stains are designed to give floors just
the correct finish, and their special qualities
ensures them against wear and may be freely
washed. Easy to apply and easily kept clean.
TAUBMAN S FLOOR VARNISH STAINS have become, by virtue of their unfailing
wearing qualities, the foremost floor finish of the present day.
YOUR STOREKEEPER WILL SUPPLY YOU
nH
il
-V “I WHOLESALE ONI,Y AT
aubmrms Ji, Sydney: Vti rnislv Marvufaictnr er*S.
VlC'i Ok IA NF RA NO* COLLINS STR EET. MELBOURNE
Q’LAND AGENT C has, IK. Riley, CHARLOTTE ST., BRISBANE
S. AUS. AGENT: L: G. Abbott & Co.. CHESSER ST.. ADELAIDE
NZ. AGENT: Wilson 6- Sha-w - HARRIS ST.,WELLINGTON
POLITICAL
POINTS
An inquiry into the administration of
Papua wouldn’t uncork so many bad smells
as Justice Ewing has discovered in the Nor-
thern Territory ; but it would unearth more
waste in the service at Moresby than at
Darwin.
Though the peace treaties have mostly
been signed the Federal Government still puts
rigid restrictions on imports from late enemy
counti’ies—Germany, Austria, Turkey and
Bulgaria. The idea has much to recom-
mend it, and if it was backed up by more
restrictions on imports from friendly coun-
tries it would be still better. For instance,
last year N. S. Wales bought so much from
affable U.S. bagmen, and found its efforts
to sell things in return treated with such
polite scorn, that it had to dig up £7,357,403
of scarce coin to square the bill. This country
has to export a lot moi’e than it imports, in
order to pay interest on its debts, and two
friends like the U.S. would make it bank-
rupt.
When Senator Pearce and General
Monash met at a reception to the latter, a
“jarring note” is said to have been intro-
duced because the Senator extolled profes-
sional armies, which wasn’t the kind of
army Monash led. It is difficult to see
what there was to jar about. The profes-
sional armies held up the first rush of the
enemy. Britain’s Old Contemptibles were
strictly professional, and the Frenchmen
who were doing their three years’ term in
barracks and the Serbians similarly placed
were equally professional for the time. The
new armies of Kitchener and Monash. no
doubt, won the war; but if there had been
nobody there befoi-e them there wouldn’t
have been any war left to win. It is the
old contest of the eyes and the nose over
again.
Prominent Liberals are already speculat-
ing upop their chances of falling into the
safe Parramatta seat, it being reckoned as
a foregone conclusion that Hughes will
smooth his own path by offering Cook the
job that Andy Fisher will leave when he
goes to America as the Commonwealth’s first
official representative.
Cook is not a represen-
tative Australian, and
Hughes’s poor opinion of
his capacity was well
shown when they were in
England and France
together. But a small
thing like that is not
going to stand in Wil-
liam’s way.
THE BITTER TRUTH.
GO-SLOW ORATOR: “Their latest slogan is ‘Produce , Produce, Produce.' And what does
it all mean ?”
DISGUSTED VOICE (somewhere in background) : Work!!"
Though Australia has >a mandate over
most of the ex-German territories in the
South Pacific, less trade is coming this way
than before the war; and the effort to find
a market for copra, the main crop, in
U.S.A. and Singapore is growing all the
time. Something or other is so badly ad-
ministered that the average grower will not
let his copra into Sydney if he can help it.
The story is that, once the copra reaches
there, great difficulty is experienced in get-
ting it out unless for sale to Britain ; and
the delays and the narrowing of the market
are driving the trade direct to America, while
other growers are busy establishing a con-
nection with the Straits.
On December 31 Britain had 3,000,000
tons of shipping under construction. On a
mere population basis Australia should have
had between 300.000 and 350.000 tons. On
any other reasonable basis it should have
had twice that much, because it has
a dreadful amount of leeway to make up,
having got so low that in 1018 this con-
tinent put on the register, of its own con-
struction, one locally-built wooden steamer
(257 tons) and three oil-motor craft (349
tons, or 117 tons each). Australia just
now wants 1000 ships 1000 times worse than
it wants any more railways pointing to
obscure hamlets in the dry country. No
foreign syndicates are enabled to blackmail
us for 100 per cent, profits because the rail-
way from Griffith to Hillston isn’t yet built,
so why should we rush in needlessly at vast
cost where rabbits fear to tread while neg-
lecting matters which are of life and death?
Let us build ships galore, and if the P. and
O. and Nippon Yusen Kaisba are angry, let
us offer them free the concession to build at
their own cost and work at their own loss
the line from Griffith to Hillston, or even
to Broken Hill.
In the natural order o*f things the Holman
Government has made it easier for munici-
paities to loaf on Israel. Under the new Act
they may, without taking a poll of the rate-
payers, borrow up to 20 p.c. of the unim-
proved capital value of rateable land in their
jurisdiction. Before the new Local Govern-
ment Act became law loan proposals had to
go to a vote of ratepayers; now the ballot
is only taken upon a demand being made by
the ratepayers. The freedom from the old
restraint is filling many councils with high
hopes; and, unless Cohen himself provides a
brake, roads in need of repair all over the
State will be paved with expensive loan-
money.
A Bill before the United States Congress
proposes death as the invariable penalty for
Direct Action against the Government. For
inciting to Direct Action it suggests 20,000
dollars fine and 20 years’ imprisonment, the
convict, if an alien, to be deported when the
20 years are up. It is
strenuous; but anybody
who attempts to super-
sede the Government of
All the People by an
oligarchy of nobles or
cardinals or One Big
Unionists or anybody else
commits the sin for which
there can be no forgive-
ness.
Already there is a clamor that the new
Defence Minister should be a member of the
Iloiise of Reps., not of the Senate, and Dr.
Arthur, M.L.A., has written on the subject
in addition to writing about everything else.
In Britain there is a natural objection to
portfolios being held in the Upper House,
which is nominee and hereditary. A bad
habit of copying British traditions applies
the same objection to Australia’s purely
elective Upper House. It isn’t surprising
that our Ministers are frequently such
make-weights, seeing that, with us, the
selection is confined to (1) members of
Parliament, in contradistinction to the
U.S. practice which confines the selec-
tion to the millions outside Parliament; (2)
to a section of Parliament; and (3) as far
as possible to the section of that section
which- sits in one House. To further ensure
good service some countries allow a Minister
to conduct the business of his department
(but not general business) in the House he
doesn’t belong to as well as in his own
premises, though he can only vote in his own
premises. This saves the Finance Minister
the agony of knowing that th- Minister for
Mines is explaining the fine points of his
Budget in “another place.” In Australia,
however, we adopt no device to save ourselves
from getting the worst possible Ministerial
service.
Ryan has been ascribing his party s fail-
ure in part at least to the new system or
voting and the great number of informal
votes. When Ryan claims that the less
intelligent people were on his side he is a
clumsy man.
It is greatly feared that for want of ships
to bring coal and carry away meat there
may be no cow-killing season in the Northern
Territory this year, and if so there won’t he
much Territory left. The need of the rail-
way as a second string to the Territory s
bow is urgent. Even if the railway struck
half the time and the ships the other hair
it would be rotten luck if they both struck at
once.
The Queensland Government has made a
beginning at restoring the German names
which disappeared during the war. Marburg
became Townshend in the course of that un-
pleasantness, but it was re-christened with
its old Hun moniker on New Year’s Day.
Maoriland Parliamentary Labor party is
growing. Last session Harry Holland led
a team of four; next session there will be
eight. The amalgamation of the Labor
party and the Liberal rump was last week
hinted at; but “I don’t know a member of
the Liberal party who would be an acquisi-
tion to Labor,” was the cold comment of
Holland.
The Commonwealth Government asked for
further power to regulate and discipline the
profiteer; and at the urgent request of Ryan
and the Farmers’ party, it was refused. Now
the “worker” and the cocky are yelling
the loudest about the threatened further ad-
vance in tobacco, and are calling upon
Hughes to do something drastic. It is a
horrible discovery that the Constitution has
something to do with the price of a smoke.
“Digger”: Many of us hope that Hughes
in his wisdom will not waste an Hon.
Ministership on Burchell, M.I1.R. Burch'
is a political and social opportunist who
went to the war with a railway unit and
was struck with a Military Cross during a
shower of the decorations, and somehow the
young man has not been any more adored
on that account. He has been mentioned as
a Repatriation overseer, but it seems absurd
to regard him seriously when a soldier like
Ryrie is probably ready to dedicate his ex-
perience to the job.
Sydney Telegraph publishes an estimate
of the market value of the last six N. S.
Wales wheat crops (1915 to 1920). In the
one supremely good year it little more than
paid for the importations of soft goods. In
an ordinary year it doesn’t half do it. This
year it seems that it will just about pay for
the importations of silk and leave a little
over towards paying for imported umbrellas.
It seems almost a pity that we don’t con-
centrate more on making our own soft goods
and umbrellas, seeing that they don’t require
the building of so much expensive new rail-
way which doesn’t pay even working ex-
penses.
Richmond (Yic.) Council, with a Labor
majority, lately decided to rescind its ukase
condemning certain insanitary dwellings and
to allow them to be occupied, there being a
great scarcity of houses in the suburb.
Simultaneously, or thereabouts, the Building
Trades Council decided that, because of the
scarcity that compels workmen’s families to
live in insanitary dwellings, this was just the
time to insist upon a five-day week. The
merchant who, seeing a scarcity of food,
grabs the chance to put up his price, is a
heartless brute with no thought except for
himself. But the unionist who, seeing a
scarcity of houses, grabs the chance to go
slow, and condemns his fellow-workmen *o
continue to live in insanitary hovels —oh.
he believes in the brotherhood of man!
Every Victorian fruit season the same
thing happens—there is an outcry because
peaches which are sold for fifteen-pence a
dozen in a city shop return the grower, 50
or 100 miles away, less than threepence.
Treasurer McPherson has just been shocked
to learn that returned Diggers at Sheppar-
ton have been netting only Is. 3d. per case
of 501b., and he was implored to find out
who was profiteering. Probably nobody.
There was the handling of the stuff at
the station to pay for and the rail-carriage
to the bloated city which is the only market
of any consequence. The more bloated the
city the further its food has to be drawn;
and the more it bloats the further the food
has to be carted after it arrives at the rail
terminus, and the more complicated the job
of distribution. And the more handling and
cartage and delay the more waste; and in
the end, though the consumer gets only dear
fruit and the grower gets next to nothing,
nobody in between makes more than a living.
Plain dirt, that cost nothing to produce,
couldn’t be sold in the suburb of a bloated
city at less than 3d. a pound if it had to
be handled as much and was as liable to
decay.
AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Whose are those bold expectant eyes
That shoreward pierce the misty morn?
What sails on the horizon rise
To mark an era newly born?
’Twixt leaping wave and firmament,
The outgate of the wind of day,
What bold and blotching continent
Lies o’er the empty waterway ?
Here come the rovers in their barque,
Hulled deep with shell and tropic weed,
To cleave new waters that the shark
Held for his gaunt oviparous breed.
Not dead to wonder yet are those
Who pirate wealth at cost of blood,
Inured to famine and to blows,
And murder-proof on field and flood.
Aloft, a-low, bronzed watchers stand,
While the long creamy line they scan
For some dulled opening on the land
To mark a port for coming Man.
Who knows what eyes were first to flame
With lust of cities new to sack ! 4
Who knows the first bold rover’s name
Who blazed the southward ocean track !
Her birth provoked no sound of bells,
No roar of guns, no flags elate ;
She rose from salt, abysmal wells,
This Ocean Illegitimate.
Long sensed by virile man, at prime
She throbbed to meet the bold caress,
And maddened for the mating time
Within her sterile loneliness.
As unto ancient Sinai
The priestly Moses led his band
By flame aid smoke upon the sky
Pillared by God Almighty’s hand,
The Spirit of Adventure flamed
That led our fathers, strong and proud,
To rivers, marching plains unnamed,
And hooded mountains grand with cloud.
The Golden Fleece long since they won,
And over Eldorado’s gains
They toss their horns against the sun,
The countless cattle on the plains.
As Romans felt old Tiber thresh
Within their veins and called him god,
Her patriots felt within their flesh
The grain and fibre of her sod.
Yet still she lacks amid the throng
An Orpheus with a luted mouth
To mould in grand melodious song
Her Hallelujah of the South.
By some bold berserk singer wooed
Through all her keen responsive earth,
Soon shall she yield her maidenhood
And quicken in tremendous birth.
The olive tint beneath her eyes,
The red and dusk upon her cheek,
Tell of age-old Egyptian skies ,
And Cleopatra seems to speak,
Who knew of night and Cfesar’s tert,
Love and the Army’s hive-like hum,
Of galley and land battlement
Alive with arms at Actium.
Who knew of Nile and nenuphar
And where the secret lover bid
Couched with a warm and trvsted star
Deep in a chambered pyramid.
Lives there a Roman of the South
Who sees her dream and dares make free
With the warm kisses of her mouth
And live and die her Antony !
MAORILAND.
DARIUS.


THE LONE HAND COMPANY.
“Albert Gardiner constitutes the whole fighting force of the Labor party in the new Senate.” News note.
THE LONE HAND: “Now, how am 1 going to play all the parts in this war drama or comedy, or whatever it is.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Rearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicions Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD Oi l ICE: COLLINS STREET. AIELBOCRVe—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN URIAHS, E.C. 2
A. J. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEV OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
E. X. KIRK £ Agent i.
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOK MAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
g. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PI RTF. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBT. N.S.W.
'PIONEER' Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
k f K! ;s:
j. e. ludowici <a son ltd.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC STEEL
“THE STEEL OF IHE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies. Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring- Dies, Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” , ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney : —•
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
19u8. .£137,975 10 p.c. = £90,000 £47,975 £248,708
1909.. 139,495 10 ~ ~ 90,000 49,495 298 203
1910.. 149,712 10 „ „ 90,000 59,712 357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 257,915
1911.. 207,565 10 p.c. = 100,000 107,565 365,480
1912.. 219,706 10 „ „ 105,000 114,706 480,186
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 380,186
Assets written up, £295,195 .. 675,381
Transferred to Capital, £550,000 .. 125,381
Ord. Pref.
(10 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1913.. 221,544 110,000 38,500 73,044 198,425
(10 p.c.)
1914.. 268.963 116,875 55,000 97,088 295,513
Transferred to Capital, £1.37,500 .. 158,013
1915.. 254,795 123,750 55,000 76,045 234,058
19p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1916.. 159,922 111,374 38,500 10,048 244,106
(6 p.c.)
1917.. 138,653 111,374 33,000 238,385
Written off Extensions Reserve,
£70,000 168,385
1918.. 150,574 111,374 33,000 6,200 174,585
1919.. 145,007 111,374 33,000 633 175,218
These reserves consist of a formal reserve
fund £100,600. depreciation fund £20,000,
dividend equalisation fund £40,000 and the
balance unappropriated. In addition there
is an employees' benefit fund which has
received £12,000 out of profits during the
past two years. Though considerably
drawn upon for special grants to dependants
of men who lost their lives at the war,
it still amounts to £40,196. This fund is
also chargeable with pensions to dependants
of war victims. In addition to the amount
appropriated out of disclosed profits to
cover depreciation an unspecified amount is
charged to working account for wear and
tear of properties, plant and machinery.
The disclosed reserves are no doubt, there-
fore, very solid; and there is no visible good-
will among the assets.
Yet there may be considerable goodwill
for all that. Of the total assets of
£2,200,343 no less than £1,507,369 is repre-
sented by brewery, plant and freehold pro-
perties; and, though leaseholds (if any) are
apparently not valued, it is pretty certain
that some of the value of the premises, not
to mention plant, depends on the continuance
of the licenses. These are being attacked
as they were never attacked before; and
the next 18 months will see a campaign
that will at any rate cost the brewers, win
or lose, a lot of money. How the poll will
go nobody knows. The defect of the scheme
is that compensation is to be paid out of
loans; and, unless the public can be got to
realise the inherent viciousness of this, it
is going to mean thousands of votes for pro-
hibition. The argument will be: “Oh, well,
these people are to be compensated, so n 1
body is going to suffer hardship; and it is
not going to cost us anything to be virtu-
ous.” Besides swaying many who haven’t
any strong opinions one way or the other,
the scheme is going to dope many interested
people who, if they had to provide the com-
pensation fund themselves, would be active
anti campaigners. The mania of the Hol-
man Government for loans is thus not at
all unlikely to make the Ma State dry.
_ Early closing certainly hasn’t caused any
visible shrinkage in the liquor supplied. This
co.’s gross profits on brewings and from sales
have been far in excess of those of any pre-
vious year; and in Victoria, where there is
a licensing fund fed mainly by a percentage
on cost of liquor purchases, the Board lately
reported that for the current year (to June,
1920) the income would be larger than
usual. The public has. of course, had an
exceptional amount of loose change in its
pockets, and money has been flung around
as it never was flung befoi’e. So. in spite
of the high cost of materials, Tooths show
gross profits just in excess of those of the
pre-war year. But as management, salaries,
wages charged to P. a >'' nrd tex-it on
have, increased by over £lOO.OOO, profits are
nothing like they used to be :—-
Profit on Management,
Brewings, Wages, Balance
Interest, etc. Excise, etc. of Profit.
1908 .. £368,139 £220.162 £147,977
1913 . . 595,514 348.970 246,544
1914 . . 666,510 377,846 288 964
1915 .. 652,360 367,566 284,794
1016 .. 568,597 366.674 201,923
1917 .. 521.202 348,54 S 172 654
1918 .. 532.403 369,827 162.576
1919 . . 607,547 450,539 157,008
After the 9 p.c. on ordinaries and 6 p.c.
on prefs. are paid there isn’t enough profit
left from last year to buy drinks all round ;
and in view of the recent strike and the
general advance in costs, last year’s divs.
may take some scratching for this year. But
it is possible that the co. put by a bit extra
last year to provide for contingencies.
Heaven knows there are enough of them.
If there were not a sword hanging over
the business shareholders would be able to
fold their hands across their waistcoats in
great content. Here are the balance-sheet
figures:—■
1909. 1914. 1919.
Liabilities.. .. £23,195 £46,866 £108,481
Assets: —
Breweries, etc. .. 630,029 1,347,893 1,507.369
Book debts .. 190,009 224,263 298,735
Stock .. .. 138,444 189,854 221,515
Liquid . . . . 312,916 326,745 172,723
Liabilities, though £62,000 larger than they
were five years ago, are still very modest:
and the increase is all represented by book
debts, whose growth is a natural result of
increased turnover. Very nearly three-
fourths of the assets are, however, in
property, which, as mentioned above, depends
for more or less of its value upon the con-
tinuance of the licensed business. Seven
years ago assets were written up nearly
£300.000; but, in spite of that, it is certain
that book values are still very low. And if
the worst comes to the worst three things
will help: (1) the compensation; (2) the
high price ruling and likely to rule for briek-
and-mortar property; (3) the urgent de-
mand for residential hotels licensed if pos-
sible, but unlicensed if there are none of
the other kind. And while prohibition may
not thus mean such a catastrophic capital
loss as might be expected, there will still
be some work for Tooths to do. There is
near-beer; and did not one of Uncle Sam’s
big breweries turn to ice-cream to break the
fall?
The awkward thing about these prohi-
bition votes is that, though a country may
say No a dozen times, it lias only to say
Yes once to settle the matter. It recalls
that other referendum which the A.M.P.
used to take with regard to extending nnera-
tions to Britain. Nothing was surer than
that, if the directors asked for authority
often enough, an accident would happen some
time or other and they wbuld get it. And
so they did. There have been no less than
four appeals to the Maorilanders since
1911; and, the accident very nearly happened
last, month. The vote in favor of State con-
trol had to be added to the continuance vote
to put the Prohibitionists in a minority:
and even then they were less than 3000 short
in a poll of nearly 550,000.
Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., formerly
Australian Kodak. Ltd., which began as from
June, 1908. with a small deficit representing
preliminary expenses : : —-
Written
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1969.'. £12,984 10 p.c. = £7,500 £358 £14,840
1910.. 25,273 10 „ „ 15,000 3869 21,244
1911.. 24,346 10 ~ ~ 15,000 3067 27,523
1912.. 36,227 121 18,750 5219 39.781
1913.. 36,890 124,, „ 18,750 5238 52,683
1914.. 40,640 12),, ~ 18,750 6240 68,333
Transferred to capital, £30,000. . 38,333
1915.. 54,228 15 p.c. =: 26,250 5852 60,459
1916.. 76,132 20 „ „ 36,000 6538 94,053
1917.. 66,517 20 „ ~ 36,000 6657 117,913
1918.. 66,673 20 ~ ~ 36.000 5942 142.644
1919.. 62,763 20 „ „ 36,000 5956 103,451
In the past 10 years (the co. hasn’t been
formed quite 12) shareholders have got just
over 150 p.c. on their capital (including
bonus capital—one share in five) ; and the
undivided profits amount to more than was
originally put up in money and otherwise, as
shown by the accounts. But there was
something put up that the accounts didn't
show, and that was the goodwill of the old
Baker and Rouse and Australian Kodak'
businesses'. This intangible but none the
less valuable property was not included as an
asset, and the old proprietors took nothing
for it. Another sort of promotion would
probably have loaded the co. with £75,000
on this account; and that would have made
the rate of dividend look smaller. The good-
will is still there, and probably worth more;
and, though directors do well not to show so
imponderable a thing in a balance-sheet, in-
vestors are entitled to consider whether it
figures there or not. When it doesn’t they
have a right to assume that the co. owns a
bit—much or little—beyond what it shows.
But Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., goes
further than this in cutting down its figures.
Freehold property as well as plant is steadily
written down, buildings being depreciated by
2 p.c. p.a. As for plant, including fixtures,
while it cost (less sales) £47,399, it stands
at only £l6 533. the balance having been
written off. This comparison shows the vari-
ous movements: —
1909. 1918. , 1919.
Liabilities .. ..£28,015 £76,886 £85,221 >
Freeholds .. .. 7 2,100 100,637 118,828
Plant, etc 28,120 18,295 16,533
Stocks 33,185 181,745 163,361
Shares in other cos. .. 77,071 12,430 12,430
Book debts, cash, etc. . . 9,880 95,423 126,520
Of the last item half is cash and War Loan;
and the £12.430 in shares is all but £4OO the
cost price of Eastman Kodaks of U.S.A.
The co. formerly had a larger holding of
these, but sold at a good profit. One can’t,
of course, tell what the future of any b'usi-
ness is going to be. There is none in all the
world that doesn’t call for some brains; and
when a business can show profits like this
me it is always liable to attract the com-
petition of good brains and uncommon enter-
prise. And whether this or a competitor
will have the better brains and the more
knowledge and experience 20 years hence
nobody who hasn’t a prophet’s license can
say. The sale of the New York Herald
last week set people recalling how one man,
Gordon Bennett, took hold of it and made
it famous, and how, when he fell out, the
circulation gradually dropped from 500,000
to 80,000. The Bulletin has no in-
formation about the co. at present
under discussion ; but it remarks on general
principles that the investor doesn’t as a rule
take enough trouble to ascertain, where
profits depend largely upon management,
what the arrangements are for the future
and whether they are promising or not. As
for what these accounts tell you, nothing
could well be more satisfactory! Not only
are the assets an exceptionally sound lot (for
it isn’t too much to assume that the stock is
well bought), not only are the reserves alto-
gether exceptional, but for the past five years
the net profits in excess of the dividends
have averaged nearly 15 p.c. p.a. on the
capital—and that is a margin wide enough
to sleep very comfortably on.
11. McKenzie, Ltd., timber m .reliant*,
etc. (Sydney) :
, Dividends. ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. lOp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Mar., ’12..12,910 2000 10 p.c.= 2899 8,011 59,590
( Deferred Ordinary div. 7176 —52,1 it
Sept., ’l2 ( All Shares.—\
( 14,409 10 p.c.= 4,899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares .. 252 62,176
Mar., ’l3. .13,577 10 p.c.= 6,500 7,077 69,253
Sept., T 3. .11,369 Nil 11.369 80.622
Mar., ’14.. 6,594 Nil 6,594 87,216
Sept., ’14.. 7,737 Nil' 7,737 94,953
Mar., ’15.. 9,026 Nil 9,026 103.979
Sept.,’ls.. 4,744 Nil 4,744 108,723
Mar., ’16.. 9,044 10 p.e.= 6,500 2,544 111,267
Written off, £543 . . . . 110,724
Sept.,’l6.. 6,974 10 p.c.= 6,500 474 111.198
Mar., T 7. . 4,427 10 „ „ 6,500 109,125
Sept.,’l7.. 9,866 20 „ ~ 13,000 105,991
Mar., ’lB. . 10,398 20 „ „ 13.000 103,389
Sept.,’lB. .14,188 20 „ „ 13,000 1,188 104,577
Mar., T 9.. 15,280 10 „ ~ 6,500 8,780 113,357
Transferred to capital, £52,000 .. 61,357
Sept., T 9. .14,212 lOp.c.- 9,100 5,112 66,469
Bonus shares to employees, £2698.. 63,771
Of course, everyone admits, if he’s in the
timber trade, that timber cos. have been and
are hat ing a hard time. And so, with an
aching heart, they put fid. a foot on to show
how they’re suffering. Various things have
combined to make this class of co. exhibit
profits it wouldn’t have dared to dream of
four years ago. Firstly, the boom in build-
ing has made the demand on their material
very heavy. Land and property values are
abnormal, and instead of slackening down
intending builders are rushing on with the
work. Secondly, wages are going up, and
pushing prices ahead of them. Supplies are
not equal to the extraordinary demand, and
companies in any building line are taking
advantage of the occasion. , Certainly this
state of affairs must end in time, but whether
it will take the form of a gradual weaken
ing or a slump remains to be seen. If a
sudden slump does happen, this is how the
McKenzie co. will face it: —
Mar.,’l2. Mar.,’ls. Mar.,’l9. Sept.,T9.
Stocks & advances
to cutters .. £99,077 £208,124 £145,874 £146,976
Liabilities .. 46,796 103,787 26,532 25,418
Of that £146,970. stock represents £95,218.
and that is no doubt put in at high prices
But the co. has very solid reserves. Of its
total of £63,711 no less than £57,733 is a
Reserve for Depreciation, but what deprecia-
tion isn’t mentioned. Property, plant and
machinery are valued at only £77,741, and
mote than liberal allowance has always been
made for wear and tear, and repairs and
renewals have been paid for out of profits.
What it should be appears to be “Reserve
just in case anything happens to prices,
and we are left with big stocks and a poor
demand.” But this is harder to say than
neserve for Depreciation, and might tend
to make shareholders uneasy when they
wake up at three in the morning. Although
sales are not as large as they were
during the previous two half years, the co.
was able to show a profit of over 10 p.c. on
the sales. Stocks no longer lie idle on the
co.’s hands waiting for builders, and this, in
conjunction with high prices, lias enabled the
co. to put up another good performance.
The company is now in a much improved
financial position. Liabilities amount to only
£25.418, and liquid (or more or less liquid)
assets are over £200,000. As to future
profits: (1.) How long will this building
boom, with its high prices, last? (2) Will
the Government some day become a serious
competitor in the business? On the latter
point it has to be noted that there is now a
Minister for Housing in N. S. Wales; and
that is an avowal that the cheap housing of
the people has become a matter of prime
concern to the State.
The County of Bourke Permanent
Building and Investment Society (Mel-
bourne) :
Busi- Net Pro-
nesri fit on To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends, serves, serves,
1908.. £10,870 £l5OO 10 p.c.= £9,667 £2703 £39,721
1909.. 10,702 2000 10 „ „ 9,636 3066 42,791
1910.. 10,512 4000 10 „ „ 9,636 4876 47,667
1911.. 11,768 3000 10 ~ ~ 9,636 5132 52,799
1912.. 13,297 3550 10 „ „ 9,636 7211 60,010
1913.. 13,425 1500 10 „ ~ 9,868 5057 65,067
Premiums on new shares . . 1923 66,990
1914.. 15,006 1000 10 p.e.= 12,064 3942 70.932
1915.. 15,370 750 10 ~ „ 13,750 2370 73,302
Transferred to Capital .. £ 25,000 48,302
1916.. 15,620 95 10 p.c.= 14,819 896 49,198
1917.. 15,721 77 10 „ „ 14,910 882 50,080
1918.. 15,652 209 10 ~ „ 15,000 861 50,941
1919.. 15,339 —lO „ ~ 15,000 339 51,280
Profits have been shrinking a little,
notwithstanding that money has been
nominally getting dearer; and because a
shareholders’ 10 p.c. dividend isn’t worth as
much as his 10 p.c. was a few years ago,
any more than a workman’s 10s. a day is,
the co. isn’t, from that point of view, doing
as well as it did. But there are other points
of view. There is risk as well as return to
be considered ; and in a business of this kind
the risk is largely a matter of the amount of
other people’s money accepted and put out
on loan. The next table shows that deposits
are now down to a very modest £24,10(5; and
advances themselves have shrunk in the last
five years, notwithstanding that another
£25,000 of capital has been got in;—
1900. 1910. 1915. 1919.
Capital . . . . £98,150 £96,361 £125,000 £150,000
Deposits . . 6.211 21,275 40,265 24,196
Other liabilities 1,897 4,347 6,062 1,868
Foreclosures . . 66,536 17,837 1,662 600
Advances . . 49,339 157,273 249,655 227,440
Other assets . . 5,907 563 811 6,803
Still, though the advances are less than they
were five years ago, apparently rather more
business has been done of late, the new loans
made having been as follows: —
Repayments
New Loans. (inc. interest).
1915 .. £38,220 £62,263.
1916 . . 49,799 75,158
1917 . . 37,479 71,267
1918 . . 64,232 77,633
1919 . . 53,303 82,122
On the basis of combined reserves and capital
(as reduced and written up in part again)
the present earnings, after making an un-
specified provision for possible losses, is
£7 12s. p.c.; and taking into account the
very small amount of other people’s money
at risk that is pretty good. Of course, ns
past experience has shown, there is a risk
also in making advances of the shareholders’
own capital; but losses simply mean bad
management in this sort of business.
Naturally, with values rising all the time,
nroperties are not falling into the society’s
hands at present; and others have taken over
the babies which were dropped into its arms
when the great boom burst. No doubt, if
they are to get . any business at all, societies
such as this must make advances which a
few years ago would have seemed almost
mad. But, though cost of building (and
therefore values) may fall—certainly will
fall sooner or later—there is not likely to
be any sudden crash ; and meantime money of
a sort for paying instalments, and thus re-
ducing the mortgagee’s risk, is plentiful. 80.
while the return of £7 12s. is good, the risk,
assuming reasonably sound management, is
mild.
* ' * * *
Melbourne Ice Skating and Refriger-
ating Co.; —
Writ-
Sopt., Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
1908.. £1245 Nil £l5OO £1735
On pref. shares.
1909.. 2067 7* p.c. = £232 1500 2070
1910.. 2366 '7-1 „ „ 375 1042 3019
1911.. 1963 71 ~ „ 375 4607
1912.. 1325 71 „ „ 375 1500 4057
1913.. 2768 71 „ „ 375 1101 5349
1914.. 2950 7-1 ~ ~ 375 2359 5565
1915.. 3524 71 ~ „ 375 2715 5999
1916.. 2070 7-1 ~ „ 431 1518 6120
Pref. Pref. Ord.
lOp.c. 7-ip.c. 21 p.c.
1917.. 2085 154 431 613 2425 4582
•1918.. 2444 213 431 613 582 5187
3| p.c.
1919.. 3542 213 431 919 1000 6160
Though there are 10 p.c. cumulative pref.
shares and 71 p.c. ditto there are fortunately
not many of either—42so of the former pai l
to 10s. and 5750 of the others fully paid to
£1; so the business would not have to d >
any wonderful things to give the ordinaries
a decent return. Thus far, however, it isn’t
rushing to do it; and, though nearly £9<
of profit in excess of dividend has been
available in the past five years for reserves
and depreciating assets, the mortgage
(£12,656) has not been shifted an inch. The
cash position has been improved by about
£4100; the rest is in book debts, stocks and
sundries. That is satisfactory to this ex-
tent—-the machinery and plant are not prov-
ing sinks for money, and though the revenue
is not booming ahead, it is being at least
maintained without additional capital outlay.
But of course that can’t go on indefinitely :
refFgeratinc plan's are by no means immor-
tal. During the war years the co. ought to
have done well, especially out of the cob',
storage part of the enterprise—the only part


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Make the water supply for your stock safe. Use
Aluminoferric in the proportion of lib. to two to
three thousand gallons of the most turbid w'ater. In
about three hours all the sediment, mud or fine veg-
etable matter will be precipitated to the bottom, leav-
ing the water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferric
is quite harmless and has no deleterious effect on
the water whatever. Sold by storekeepers every-
where. William Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt. [2
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
• * * •
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Letter received from
Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th February,
1919: “Re yours of the 19th instant, in regard to
pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have been
and arc still in every way satisfactory, and are quite
suitable for our requirements. The cost of mainte-
nance during the six years of service has been nil. If
we were putting in any further pipe lines, your firm
would certainly be favored with our orders. (Sgd.)
S. Southam, Secretary.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.
(H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State • Governments. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. f>o3s. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City. 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Mclb. ITniv.) : M. Ins.
C.E. (London) ; Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne. —AnvT.
The manufacture of Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, botli marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
Tlie Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set. and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson A Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * * #
The ever-increasing wages for labor are causing
more attention to be given to mechanical appliances
for saving labor whe.ever possible. Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, who
maintain a special engineering department for this
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates of
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pro-
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austra-
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Comuson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Feb Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”:— Advt.
• tt*
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus. Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, Weights; Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or.write for particulars. IT. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
t ah t Born tp
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital • £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital . 122,000
Income (Cross) 191 S .. 457,852
/■; lnhlishe.il I'.ftO.
ACENTS WANTED.
ISranchcs in every Sta'i
Write for particular.-.
w. K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Sydney.
A NEW ELECTRICAL DEVELOPMENT.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT,
* ■■ ' " '
The British Westinghouse
Elecftric <O. Mfg'. Co. Ltd.
will henceforth be known and carry on business as
METROPOLITAN-VICKERS
ELECTRICAL CO. LTD.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:—
MELBOURNE: 84 William Street. SYDNEY: 12 Martin Place.
AGENTS:— ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane.
METROPOLITAN- VICKERS ELECTRICAL CO., LTD.,
Trafford Park, Manchester.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from *Flre, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Bates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED. toiws
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOM NS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.
wnwAun papp General Manager.
that is worth considering—and the fact than
it hasn’t is not very comforting for the
future. On paper the business looks good.
But there is something the matter with the
performance.
There is a prospect that something worth
while will be done at last with the Occi-
dental, Cobar (N.S.W.). For years it
hasn’t known what real economy is. It may
have worked hard, but it has wasted harder.
Its surface equipment has been a patchwork;
and though good enough recoveries have been
got, costs have been as high as Kosciusko.
The old co. hung on as long as it could, but
it has at last accepted an offer of help, and
a new co. is to be formed in 150,000 shares
of 10. s. each. The idea is that the public
shall pay 10s. apiece for 75,000. The
£37,500 will go this way : £5OOO to pay off
present co.’s debts; £2500 or thereabouts for
brokerage and oddments; £30,000 for sur-
face equipment, including a new battery
and a new winding engine. Estimates made by
Godfrey, of the Mines Department—as good
a man for the job as any Australian Mines
Department owns—put the reserves at
120,000 tons worth lOdwt.; and with gold
worth £5 or more per ounce and costs esti-
mated at 265., there is a thumping profit in
it. And the costs should not be 265.; for
the lode is wide (60ft. at the bottom), and
very easily worked, and mining costs ought
to be very low.
Through not carrying heavy capital Mel-
bourne-owned Adelong Creek (N.S.W.) has
comfortably paid two Is. divs. in the last
six months and wound up in tip-top financial
trim. Judging by balance-sheet figures the
policy is to wipe out £5OO of debentures
along with the payment of each div. But
it won’t be necessary for long, because bonds
now outstanding tot up only £2BOO. With
that liability out of the way the path should
be smooth, especially as current debts are
only about £lOOO, with cash and gold £2511
and stores £4300 to set against them. The
plants are of yesterday, but the new broom,
James George, has spent the winter in sweep-
ing things. Costs would make a Bright
dredge-owner weep, for with No. 1 they aver-
aged 4.79 d. per cub. yd. against ground
values of 7.18 d., while the bigger No. 2
plant averaged 5.68 d. with costs at 3.66 d.
per cub. yd. As both have fair ground
ahead, and as the soft impeachment is ad-
mitted that the gold sold abroad nets a nice
profit, the Creek might even creep up to a
ss. distribution for 1020.
The prospects of the Cobar field are
brighter. Apart from the promise that the
Occidental will be handled with more spirit
and less waste, it is said that excellent
results have been got from some of the
Great Cobar co.’s ore by Minerals Separa-
tion. Hitherto, while fine crushing has
given high copper recovery, the gold losses
have been heavy ; but this appears to have
been overconje. As to quantities available,
there is no question. In Great Cobar drill-
ing has given most favorable results ; in fact,
in practically every mine on the field there
is evidence that the lodes continue to great
depths. Slack management and indifferent
labor have been the trouble for years past.
* * * *
Federation and Mt. Owen, Gloucester dis-
trict (N.S.W.). have been floated with a
capital of £15,000. On the banks of Mum-
mell River a hole 12ft. deep was this time
last year the only indication of what was
to come. Two miners then happened along.
They saw prospects, and induced a syndi-
cate to provide £lOOO to prospect. Six tons
carted to the railway at Mt. George, and
thence sent to Cockle Creek, assayed Ooz.
4dwt. gold, plus some silver. Now share-
holders have huge hopes.
From Hampton Plains :
Clark and Robinson have added to their risks and
chances by underwriting a big wad of shares in a
Scottish co. which they have floated in London to
work the Ayrshire lease next to the Celebration, on
the north. It had nothing to show' until the other
day, when some good prospects were obtained by
loaming on the east side. This combined w'ith the
fact that the property was next to the Celebration
was apparently considered good enough to justify
flotation. No work has been done on the Celebration
since the holidays, but some check-sampling carried
out by Herbert Daly for Clark and Robinson at
Christmas time gave better average results than those
guaranteed by Hamilton and on which Clark and
Robinson bought the lease. Poor values are still
being obtained on the Celebration Junction, and the
lease adjoining, known as the Celebration South,
though a good deal boomed, has not furnished payable
gold to date. So far most of the other shows on the
field are merely prospects. The next few months
work will make or break them- —and, judging by
indications, it will be mostly break.
Perth Mining Association held another
annual roll-up on January 8, when the work
of Dyason, of the Gold Producers’ Associa-
tion, was warmly praised, and that of the
Federal Government in regard to base-metal
restrictions cursed. President Morgans de-
clared that the lead, tin and copper possi-
bilities of the West were greater than its
gold resources, but so long as Hughes in-
sisted on interfering with the production
and disposal of metals the fields of the
State would remain undeveloped and be of
no use to anyone. The only hope of a change
for the better was the growing strength of
the Producers’ party in Federal politics.
He questioned the legality of the Govern-
ment’s action in preventing the free export
and disposal of metals, and thought that a
test case would probably be taken to the
High Court.
From Westonia: —
Notwithstanding the special Act of Parliament
that was passed in record time to deal with West-
onia water difficulty, and notwithstanding the advice
of Prof. Whitfield, of Perth University, who was
appointed by the Government to investigate the
position, the water problem is more menacing than
ever. Practically all Edna May pumps have been
withdrawn from the workings, and now, at this
late stage, everyone admits the great service the
Edna May Co. rendered the field by its pumping
operations. Since the withdrawal of the pumps a
serious accumulation of water has occurred in Edna
May, Central and Consolidated, and so far as the
latter two are concerned the matter of extracting
ore is of secondary importance, that of dealing with
the water being paramount. The most serious
feature is that the inflow’ is sure to increase as the
workings are extended and further country opened
up. Central is now raising 35,000 gallons hourly
and has practically suspended ordinary mining and
treatment. It has been suggested that the shallow
levels of Central and Consolidated should be let on
tribute, and this is probably the best that could be
done with them.
So far Whitfield has not accomplished much in
the direction of simplifying the problem. Roughly
there are 1000 gallons of water to be handled
per minute, and a pumping system is the only
means of dealing with the inflow. Does the ore
which may reasonably be expected to be obtained
from Central and Consolidated justify the expen-
diture? For reply look at the financial performances
of the two cos. during the past five years. They
have in that time disbursed in dividends less than
£15,000. So far Deep Levels is not seriously
threatened, but it has other troubles, a falling grade
being the most serious. Generally, however, the;
position of Deeps is incomparably better than that
of the other mines.
* * * *
Arthur Moline, running Bendigo Amal-
gamated while Dyason is away, sums up the
co.’s doings for 11119 as a monthly crushing
of 4000 tons, or half what the plants can
handle. But the grade for the last six
months was up 25 p.t*., which means that
the co. has been dealing with better material
than ever before. Constellation has been the
plum, though Moline counts the striking of
pay-dirt in the extension of the Carlisle run
of .spurs in the Unity mine as the hit of
1919. So far the full probabilities of this
spurr.v system are not determined. If it
carries gol4 overhead several years’ work
awaits the pick. Alongside in the Carlisle
is plenty of quartz just below the pay grade.
A change of contents on the right side would
make the fourth development of moment the
co. has had. Besides this possibility early
crosscutting off the Sea and Koch’s shafts for
the Unity reef may bring in more grist to
the mill. There are also chances off the
McDuff shaft on the South Moon run of
stone beyond the Constellation, as well as
probabilities on the Derby and Sheepsliead
saddles. With the 25 p.c. increase in out-
put for the half-year good profits show in
the books, and on top of them is another
£15.000 to £20,000 assured from the sale of
gold through the Gold Producers’ Associa-
tion. Moline has pretty well finished the
remodelling of the organisation and plant,
and as he testifies that labor is no less
efficient to-day than in 1917, he now has a
clear run, with free cash in hand, for the
first time since he came into the show.
* * * *
George Ivlug gives Tasman and Crown
Lyell a bit more than a sporting chance.
Otherwise he would certainly advise the co,
against spending cash on development, see-
ing that it has got through the big wad put
up by London and Melbourne dunng the
happy days of the Lyell boom. Klug ac-
cepts Prof. Gregory’s generalisations about
the field and the genesis of its ore deposits.
So, as the Great Lyell “fault” exists in the
co.’s lease, and as that fault is there butted
into by a cross-“fault,” he finds that the
claim has the conditions favorable to ore
deposition. When Klug used the tape in
the tunnels underground he found he had to
measure up an enst-and-west copper-bearing
formation as well as the main galena lode.
With a length of 300 ft. at No. 1 level and
190 ft. at No. 2, and with a width ranging
from 10ft. to 30ft., the galena lode gives
the co. 20,000 tons of ore carrying 14 p.c.
zinc. lOoz. silver and 20 p.c. lead. Sampling
the copper lode proved it to be poor stuff,
worth under 1 p.c. copper and low. also in
s’lver. zinc and lead. Klug’s idea is to let
the co. hunt for the downward continuation
of the galena lode by winzing and sinking
from No. 2 level. If the ore goes down
his expectation is that another 20,000 tons
worth 26.9 p.c. lead. 10.30 z. silver and 20.6
p.c. zinc will be added to reserves under his
plan of attack. He also advocates driving
on the copper formation to see if a lens of
ore makes on its course to the Comstock
boundary. When all this has been done Klug
offers to again review the situation. If the
mine doesn t respond he will then no doubt
turn it down. But he thinks a thousand or
two should be raised for the final flutter.
* * * *
“Fitzroy”: The discovery of a rich gold
pocket at Tungamull, 10 miles from Rock-
hampton. has provided Central Bananalaud
with its first mining sensation since the Dee
rush. The report made to the Rockhampton
warden was that a leader followed to a depth
of Oft. ended in a “png” and 301 b. of the
stuff yielded 5220 Z. gold. Not bad going,
and the finders (Eliott and MacFaydyn)
wouldn't want more than a few thousand
tons to buy cars. Rich as the find is there
is as yet no reason to build much on the
opening up of a new and extensive field.
For Tungamull is situated within half a
dozen miles of the old Cawarrel field, which
boomed and fizzled away in the early mining
days of Central Queensland. As an alluvial
field Cawarrel was right enough for a time
and the New Zealand Gully rush in the
’fifties helped to prop it up for a season.
But in the end it is pretty certain that
more money went into the field than ever
came out of it. There are more defunct
[.one Stars and Mount Surprises to the
square mile here than in any part of the
Commonwealth. That ghastly failure Mt.
chalmers is in the middle of it, and Taran-
gaba, where so many plungers were skinned
alive 30 years ago, lies on the seaward
fringe.
Climbed his last ladder, at Brisbane, Cap-
tain A. S. R. Osborne, aged 84. Since his
arrival under engagement to the old Moonta
(S.A.) Copper Co. in 1802, thi,s Cornish-
man had explored and developed more min-
ing shows than any other man in the game.
He had prospected in every State bar Vic-
toria. Over 50 years ago he preached the
gospel at Mount Perry (a Cornisn mining
eap’n in those days was no mild curate),
and showed the miners how to make a rise
out of the mine. As far north as Papua, south
to the Speck and west unto Whim Well, he
had followed the lure of the metals and left
his mark. Whatever he took out went back,
lie believed in mininer and he believed in him-
self. He was right both times —in the long
run. Shortly after he became 80 he decide 1
it was time his family settled down in the
city while he went prospecting. Even then
lie was the youngest man in the business,
and up to within a year of his death was
able to show miners of one-third his age the
way up the ladder. For close upon 50 years
in the tropics he allowed the other chap to
do the drinking. He delved and thought, and
simply did not grow old. Until his 83rd year,
when pulmonary trouble necessitated a rest,
his mind and body were those of an enthusi-
astic youth of 28. He will be genuinely
missed. He is survived by a wife, two
daughters and a son. Last named. R. P.
Osborne (Ballarat School of Mines), is man-
aging Laloki and Dubuna in Papua.
Badak. of which T. W. Orton is the pros-
pector, sent up one W. Wilson to do check-
boring. Letters from him told that he had
been delayed by floods and bad weather.
Next came a wire that his No. 1 bpre put
in to check Orton’s No. 24 bore had bot-
tomed at 31ft. and given a sample that
averaged 191 b. tin oxide against Orton’s
18ft. bore not bottomed that went 221 b. The
area to be bored is 100 acres out of a pos-
sible 5000 acres. So the problem presented
is, if a bore gives a "sample that averages
191 b.. what will 100 acres yield? It all
brings back memories of Teddy Miles’s
famous estimate of Puket Harbor resources,
on which Tongkah Harbor rests to this
blessed day. But there is another problem.
Why. if 100 acres had to be bored, send
one* bore result? However and notwith-
standing, the market jumped from £l7O to
£4OO per share almost at a bound. Within
24 horn’s there were sales of shares at £750.
which means £300,000 for the lot. If Wilson
gets a second bore of the same value the
market will probably say the show is worth
£080.000; and what would happen if a
third and a fourth said the same thing
imagination can’t describe. But later bores
may slip down to lb. ground, and what then?
* • * •
“Driller” : Reasons respectfully submitted
why Charlton Dod, B.Sc., field superinten-
dent of the oil bore at Tantanoola (S.A.),
should not be cheered for what has been done
in two years. In the first place it is without
precedent to attempt to penetrate a large
body of loose sand in such a casual way as
was done at Tantanoola; that is, by work-
ing only two eight-hour shifts and shutting
down on Sundays. Most of the trouble
arises during shut-down periods. In the
second place, when an inrush of sand caught
and nearly buried the drilling tools, if they
couldn’t be loosened by a few days’ incessant
jarring they should have been said good-bye
to there and then. There is only one way
of recovering tools properly embedded in
wet sand and below the casing, and that
is to “wash” over them with a rotary string
of pipe. This not being available, side-
tracking of the lost tools should have taken
place six weeks sooner. The money spent in
useless fishing would have bought several
new strings of drilling tools. The whole
point is that most of the troubles, though
valiantly fought when they arose, should not
have arisen. So, summing up, there is no
reason why the superintendent should have
the D.C.M. suggested in The Bulletin
8/l/’2O.
(Continued on page 22.)


HOW MURPHY
GOT TO
HEAVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DAN MURPHY’S cows had stumbled
into Heaven,
Breaking the olive fences thin and
hoar;
They chewed the asphodel beneath the
seven
Tall palms that stood beside the wash-
house door.
There through the light of everlasting
-f morn
The laundress angels wring the soop-
suds faint
From shining robes boiled meekly to
adorn
.A The sad, slow virtues of the latest
\ saint.
Y There rose a clamor on the wind of
joy,
A holy flutter round the place of soap—
“ Behold the milky beasts of earth destroy
With cloven hoof the lily blooms of hope !”
Upsprang ten thousand warrior angels flight
With sword and panoply for battle proud ;
The twelve broad banners glittered in the
light.
And silver trumpets sang a challenge loud.
And there stood Blossom with the erring five
Unmoved amid the tumult of the morn,
Heedless of all the flutter in the hive
As when she stood breast-high in Ryan’s
corn.
Sticks, stones and words had moved her
slowly then
Out of the corn into the lucerne green ;
She had a large contempt for boys and men,
And these were the first angels she had
seen.
One halo on her lifted horn was caught,
She sent the startled doves to left and
right;
The five large following cows for shelter
sought,
And tore the holy washing in their flight.
One down the gully, three across the hill—
And all the blessfed from their windows
gazed—•
Amid the silver trumpets blaring still
The cows, scarce ruffled, paused and slowly
grazed.
Heaven’s legions o’er that jungle of delight,
Where every scent was sweet as maiden
vows,
Wheeled back and forth in hurried, eager
flight,
And could not rout the six unshaken cows.
Twice three were mustered at the rainbow
ends,
Four times a pair were stayed by wisdom’s
well:
But Blossom and her five deep-
uddered friends
Had quiet tricks that might
have conquered Hell.
Perspiring in their armor and
their wings,
The beaten angels staggered in
their ranks;
Some paused to drink by little
nectared springs;
Some lay and panted on the
flowery banks.
And some, the lustiest of the
shining throng,
Made noises undevout within
their throats
Like luminous oaths obscured
with mystic song
Sung by a candidate ’mid fail-
ing votes.
But Blocsom had the halo on her
horn
When Abraham, awakened by the din,
Shook his wide beard across the clamorous
morn
And smiled as at some memory of sin.
“Cows! Real cows!” the ancient patriarch
cried.
“Hebron ! Jerusalem ! This does for me .
His feelings he was impotent to hide.
He raised his voice—“Ho! Sarah, come
and see!”
Swift was his going. In his eager eye
A new, bright flame was burning large and
clear.
He turned and saw a sweating angel fly
Close up to him to try and gain his ear.
“What! Cows?” the hoary saint said with a
roar.
“You want to drive them out and save
the place?”
“Yes,” said the angel. “All the years before
The High Guard has not known so much
disgrace.
“We chased the creatures here, we chased
them there;
The havoc wrought to shrub and bloom is
great—
As easy might we the entrenchant air
Invite to sit upon a dinner-plate.”
“Gadzooks,” said Abraham, “the smell is
good.
I was a dairy farmer in my day.
Heaven’s grass was wasting as the matter
stood
And milking cattle pay but as they stray.”
“Great sir,” the angel said, “what shall we
do?”
“Do?” asked the patriarch. “Where’s the
man who owns
The first good cows that Heaven ever knew?
Bring him in flesh and blood or dust and
bones!”
Softly the angel answered and salaamed:
“The Court of High Inquiry clerk has
found
A person long and well and truly damned ;
His name is Murphy, tiller of the ground.”
The word of Abraham went forth with might.
Great seraphs winnowed down the yielding
air;
And in the middle of a summer night
Thev lifted Murphy by his radiant hair.
Up, up, they bore him till the stars and sun
Were as a dust of gems beneath his feet;
And with a final flutter and a run
They dumped him limp into a heavenly
seat.
Poor Murphy trembled. Clearly he was dead.
Wild thought of judgment filled his aching
brow;
And then he saw a patch of simple red
That grew to placid outlines of a cow.
“Blossom!” he cried and wondered. There
she stood
Sniffing the golden paths with easy scorn,
Deciding that the blossoms were no good,
A halo tilted on her off-side horn.
Behind her came a mass of hoary hair
And a deep voice across the silence spoke—
“ You Murphy?” Murphy took himself to
prayer,
But managed just to murmur, “I'm the
bloke.”
“Abraham here.” The patriarch gripped his
hand.
“This place was never decent until now.
Light up! See all those sweeps of dairy
land.
Well, till to-day we never had a cow.”
Faint in the distance bugles sang and died.
The cows remained ; the angels passed to
rest.
The asphodel was -trampled far and wide,
The thornless roses crushed from east to
west....
"My Chaldee bull,” said Abraham, “iwas
great.”
“Jersey for me,” said Dan and slapped his
migh....
Blossom began to eat the Tree of Fate
And found the sentences a trifle dry.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Eat a
De Enxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
KAeltcmian
jSPEfIALTIES .
Creams
and
Pastes
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
B. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL. • OVER • THE • WORLD
ĤJKJH
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
2o NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A STRANGE FACT ABOUT
INDIGESTION.
A strange fact about indigestion with
which comparatively few people are
acquainted is that nine times out of ten pain
in the stomach after eating is due to food
fermentation and acidity, which, as any
doctor or chemist can tell you. is almost
instantly relieved by taking half a teaspoon-
ful of Bisurated Magnesia (powder form) in
a little water immediately after eating or
whenever pain is felt. Your medical or phar-
maceutical friend could also inform you that
the reason of the efficacy of Bisurated Mag-
nesia is simplicity itself. Bisurated Mag-
nesia is a natural neutraliser and most
deadly foe of acidity. It abhors acidity as
nature abhors a vacuum, and seeks, in-
stantly it comes into contact with an acid,
to nullify it and render it impotent, power-
less and totally incapable of the slightest
harm. That is why so many thousands of
people have good cause to praise Bisurated
Magnesia, and why you should commence
taking it to-day. Bisurated Magnesia is
obtainable of chemists everywhere, and full
instructions are given on every bottle. If
everyone would adopt this simple plan, indi-
gestion, dyspepsia, sour stomach, gas and
flatulence would soon be unknown. — Auvt.
SOCIETY
“Croson”; The newest charge against
Victoria’s remarkable railway management
is that it did, on or about September 15,
1919, receive at Hamilton one musical in-
strument, to wit, an organ, for delivery at
Ballarat; and that it did, on or about Janu-
ary 15. 1920, deliver one musical instru-
ment, alleged to bo the same organ, but in
fact a pianola, at Ballarat aforesaid. Where,
ON THE BEACHES.
UNCLE: “Look at that huzzy walking the
street in a bathing costume .”
AUNT: “Gracious, yes! Which of them is it?”
bow, whence, why or whaffor no man knows.
All that is certain is that an organ was
despatched, and four months later a pianola
turned up. Nobody has as yet sent his
friend a case of whisky and had a decom-
posed barracouta delivered instead; but
there is still a chance.
* *
“Artist”: “Palotta” (B. 8/l/’2(>Von the
brewing storm nt tiio Melbourne
Gallery Art School comes as a delightful
shock 'to me. While I was a student there
discontent among the students was
but never a word of it ever reached “Barney
Hall. The moment he appeared the Bol-
sheviks were 1 ike mice. I never saw
students so cowed by any master, lie has
been director for 25 years, and, despite the
fact that he has £7OOO a year to buy work
with, the only decent Old Master well rep-
resented is Corot. A great many pupils have
thrown up the course in disgust. The year
1 left about 25 went out in a bunch. The
number of students who have turned out
good painters is practically nil, though
“good sellers” are not rare; and I know of
no student who has made any use of the
certificate handed to him on the completion
of his training. “Palotta” wonders when
a younger man with new ideas will arrive,
lie will be appointed when the artists of
Victoria take command of art affairs instead
of flunkeying to the strangely-assorted
trustees.
* * * *
“Pioneer”: As “Henry Horseeollar” says
(B. 25/12/T9), Captain Cook may not have
been the discoverer of Australia; but he was
a very great man, nevertheless. When he
made his famous voyage in 1770 to record
the transit of Venus, his instructions were
to then strike westward and endeavor to
locate the Great Southern Band, which, in
the opinion of geographers, existed there-
abouts. This lie did, and after sailing some
weeks from Maoriland
the lookout in the barrel
aloft cried “Land ahoy!”
This spot has been defi-
nitely located as Cape
Howe, although it was
first named after the
lookout ma n II ick s.
Cook then struck north-
wards, landing at Botany
Bay. He passed Sydney
Harbor, ran past More-
ton Bay, and from there
sailed northwards an-
other 1000 miles, closely
surveying every mile of
his voyage along the Bar-
rier. It is to his ever-
lasting honor as a navi-
gator that his sound bigs
have never been chal-
lenged, and stand to-day
absolutely corr e c t in
every detail. Then it
was to Cook’s excep-
tional skill in marine-
surveying that Wolfe’s
landing at Quebec was
made possible. When
the expedition was des
cided upon Cook was re-
commended for the task
of sounding the St. Law-
rence, and it was on this
basis that Wolfe made
his adventurous dash to
the Heights of Abraham
that won Canada for the
Empire. Another of
Cook’s claims to fame is
the fact that he was the
first English navigator
to successfully combat
the ravages of scurvy.
Prior to his time inar-
iners were rotten with the disease after si:
months at sea, and it was his conscientious
interest in his men’s health that showed the
world how the scourge could be controlled.
“R.”: Being a member of the A.T.N.A.,
perhaps it is natural that I don’t agree with
the doctor’s view of the recent increase in
nurses’ fees (B. 8/l/’2O). My own opinion
is that the £4 4s. a week decided on is still
less ’than a fair thing, for these reasons :
(1) The training is long (four years) and so
arduous that at least a third of those who undertake
it are unable to complete it; and during the period
of training the pay is a mere few shillings a week.
Even in the fourth year, in the public hospitals,
it is only 12s. or 13s.
(2) To say that because a nurse may charge a
private patient four guineas a week her income is
therefore £2lB Bs. per annum is preposterous. As
a rule the nurse is employed only so long as the
patient’s state is alarming. When danger is passed
recruits are generally called from the relations, and
the family does the nursing. It is only in seasons of
serious epidemic that continuous work offers.
(3) The nurse must pay her subscription to a
nurses’ home, whether she occupies the room contin-
uously or not.
(4) The private nurse has to face the domestic
problem in its most acute form. No sooner does a
young Australian threaten to put in an appearance
than the maids depart; and the minute that infection
arrives, domestic help, as a rule, vanishes. So
far from having her own washing done, nurse in
many cases cooks and washes for the whole household.
(5) She can have no guarantee that she can collect
her fee when her work is done.
(6) The fact that the matron of the Orange
Hospital gets duly £l3O per annum is not such a
“blazing anomaly” as it sounds. Many of my col-
leagues would prefer the certainty, the privileges,
the comparative ease of a country matron’s life to
the precarious struggle of a, private nurse. The
trouble is to get the country matronship.
The Bulletin’s medical ( correspondent
suggested that what the community needs is
an abundance of private hospitals, especially
in the suburbs, to protect the public from
our rapacity. We would welcome them, for
they would furnish us with havens of refuge
which most of us would seek rather than
endure the discomforts of our present most
irregular employment, even though the pay
for it were much beyond four guineas.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — I used to know slightly
those Government pubs at Darwin about
which so much was said at the N. Terri-
tory inquiry. That, I suppose, was before
they utterly degenerated. The only thing I
could notice to complain of was that they
were rather dirty, rather neglected-looking
and untidy, the liquor was inferior (not
poisonous, but inferior) and hard to get
(for the High Commissioner had to be
searched for), and the officer, when found,
while not abusive, was rather hostile and
ostentatiously indifferent. Also, he was
slow and slovenly. His attitude was that
of the civil servant of the old school when
disturbed by the common public, and with
that was combined the suspicion of the
semi-Bolshevised toiler that the stranger
might be feeling, or intending to feel,
superior, which conduct he was prepared to
withstand to the death. I felt that if I
called him Bill he might resent it as pat-
ronage, and if I didn’t call him Bill he
might object to my aloofness. Possibly he
wasn’t so bad as he looked, but the most
THE LAST TRIP TO THE WELL.
“Well, when arc you going to let me shew
you a ou o’ life; Don’t be too long
thinking about it!”
“I suppose I better not —else you'll be too
old to .”
untidy publican at Bowen (you may pos-
sibly know Bowen) was his superior, hav-
ing neither his civil-servant aspect nor his
“class-consciousness.” I believe that if I
went into the head office of the Bank of
N. S. Wales and asked for a rum hot I
would be received with more enthusiasm
than I was by the Federal publicans of
Darwin.—Yours, etc., Northern Drinker,
Adelaide land-agents are smacking their
lips. The Peake Government has suddenly
condemned Government House, promising
the big central space it occupies for a sol-
diers’ memorial and park. So agents are
busy securing options on every suburban
house likely to be large enough. The rich
men of the last century mostly built them-
selves homes at the foot of the Hills, and
the domestic-service difficulty now makes it
impossible to keep them up privately. Tor-
A GOOD WORD FOR A FRIEND.
"Brawn's profiteering is scandalous. He
seems to hare lost all regard for right
and wrong.”
"I wouldn't say that, old man. I think he
still weighs them to find out which pays
best."
rens Park, the old Barr Smith home, has
just been secured for a Scotch College, but
there are plenty of others. The trouble with
most of them is that, built half a century or
so back, they are not up to modern ideas of
what a house should be.
* * * *
“Karim Khan”: “Clancy’s” Syrian meal
(11. 18/12/Y9) reminds of many which we
were obliged, for political reasons, to attend
in Persia. First the guests sat round the
festive board tailor-fashion, and on the word
made a grand tour of the various dishes,
eating in silence. A feature always present
was a big common dish of sour milk and
water, flavored with finely-chopped herbs,
from which the guests drank in turn, with
the help of a wooden ladle. After dinner
the host took a couple of pulls at his opium-
pipe and told a few well-spiced stories. That
done everybody was expected to curl up and
sleep off the effects of the meal.
“Tylden”: When Dean Hegarty, who has
been promoted to Carlton, went to Kyne-
ton 25 years ago, he started to shake up
backsliders. As he approached a house the
conscience-stricken missus spotted him, and
enjoined her 12-year-old daughter to say she
was “not at home.” As the priest knocked
she hid behind the wooden frame on which
the clothes she had just ironed were airing.
After listening to the child’s white lies, stam-
meringly told, the Dean said: “Now, look
here, my gurrl, you tell your mother that the
next time she goes out she should take her
feet wid her.” The clothes-horse screen,
like present-day skirts, began some distance
from the ground.
“Wally T.”: An Egyptian sunrise over
old Port Said. A multitudinous array of
excited Frenchmen, gesticulating wildly,
their eyes aglisten beneath a massive statue.
A grinning group of Diggers 20 yards away.
“Oh, ze Australyons, ze Entente Cordiale,
ze bon De Lesseps,” cries one Frenchman in
a sharp crescendo. Cause of the. excite-
ment : the massive statue of their beloved
De Lesseps garbed in two Digger tunics
sewn together and topped by an Australian
felt hat with emu plumes. The labor of
some steeplejack Croweater on the previous
evening.
* * * *
“Araminta” : When I see how hard it is
for some of us women to make a crust, the
way a lot of men do it gets me wild. I went
into a big city shop yesterday to buy myself
a cheap palm-leaf fan. “Fahns?” murmured
the exquisite he-creature behind the counter.
“Oh. yess! Now, we have a naice little
thing heah —very naice.” He dipped his silly,
lily fingers into a pile of stock and brought
forth a small box. from which he took a
spangled trifle, unwrapped it from its tissue
and spread it coyly under his chin. “Oh.
not what I wanted at all,” I said. “I
wanted something suitable for —for taking to
church. That’s for a ballroom.” “00, but”
he began to expostulate. “How much is
it?” I demanded. “Eety shillings,” he purred,
“very naice.” When I came-to I was in a
little shop three blocks away taking delivery
of what I wanted at 74d. —and, at that, a
50 p.c. advance on pre-war prices. It seems
an unhealthy state of affairs to keep a young
man in braided coat, plastered hair and a
Brummagem polish selling dainty things to
women, while plenty of reasonably-bright
girls are mucking about in jam factories.
AT KURNELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dutchman’s hour has ended,
And the Spaniard’s day has gone,
And the Rover waits no more
For the homing galleon.
Since they had their hour and day
Time has added grey to grey.
Rut they built a ship in England
That shall live and live for aye.
I watch the cloudy mangroves
Through a brooding she-oak’s tress,
And the tide that lifts the weeds
With a soothing tenderness;
And a spell comes over me
And I see, or dream I see,
Through the night that ship of England
Sweeping inward silently.
In silence drops her anchor
And her sails in silence fall,
And I hear no sailor’s chant,
And I hear no bos’n’s call;
Though she sway from left to right
In the star-mist of the night,
Yet I see no life upon her,
And she shows no riding light.
Of old the dark tides knew her,
And the watchful Southern stars
Knew the teak and oak and pine
Of her hull and deck and spars
As she moved on even keel,
With her steersman at her wheel,
And her captain, her great captain,
He that was of oak and steel.
There was great talk in England,
When she homed with tattered sails,
Of the new lands she had found,
And her sailors told strange tales
Of the 1 ocean’s mystic powers,
And of how they spent sweet hours
On the golden-sanded beaches
Of the Bay of Trees and Flowers.
At night, when magic vision
In the darkness casts its spell,
And the stars shine large and clear
On the white sands of Kurnell,
To the seeing eyes of some,
As to me, that ship will come
With the ghost of her great Captain,
And her sailors, dead and dumb.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


A Cool Suit for Hot Days.
“NO-VESTE” STYLE IN GREY FLANNEL
The Sports Suit, always comfortable because of its loose, light
make, is more than ever appreciable when obtained in one of
the distinctive “No-Veste” styles introduced only by Peapes*.
It is made of Light Grey All-Wool “Warrigal” Australian
r lannel, and has no lining except in sleeves. The shoulders are
unpadded. Three-button front, 2 patch pockets outside, yoke
and half-belt at back. Trousers: Side, hip and fob pockets and
permanent turn-up.
Ready to wear . . 65/-
An ideal holiday and week-end travel suit.
Please state height, chest, wait and inside leg measurements.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
JHKJHK
Men’s Stout 7/6
„ Light 6 1-
Ladies' - - 4/-
Soles and Heels’,
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2 -
Ladies' ■ 1/3
(Heels only
per pair
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN
M anujacturers —
/-HILL IPS'
rAT ENTS Lta.,
London. Lng.
Mil THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Austral! an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymoutb Street, Adelaide.
“Coola” : Diggers on guard-duty were gen-
eially pretty human and gave their cobbers a
good spin. During the winter of 1910-17
we were having a few days out of the line
near Albert. It was bitter: if a man tried *o
talk the words froze in. his mouth. Just across
the road there was a big dump. It con-
tained sufficient coal to last the whole army
thereabouts for months; but we couldn’t get
enough from the Q.M. to keep our little
braziers going. There was an Aussie guard
in charge, with orders that no coal was to
be taken away without proper authority as
per Routine Order No. Z 2840. One evening,
just about dark, we sneaked across with a
couple of bags and reached the edge of the
heap without running into the guard. Bluey
said there were some bonzer pieces near the
top, so he climbed up. Then a quiet, pinned
voice came out of the darkness; “Get down
off the skyline, you dopey cow! If yer
wanter pinch er bit er blanky coal pinch it
from the bottom.” Then, as an afterthought,
'l'm on blanky guard here!”
* * * *
“Ex-273”: Advertisement for which no
charge was made was given to the loose
medical arrangements in N. 8. Wales prisons
by a coroner’s inquiry into the death of a
man at Long Bay Penitentiary. Long Bay
is the reception-house for most of the men
in the metropolitan area who have pressing
invitations to become Government boarders,
and “short-distance” prisoners stay there.
A certain amount of isolation is given to
Y.D. cases and men suffering from other
diseases that are contagious and unpleasant;
but unless a man is a self-admitted sufferer
the isolation may not .start right away—
because there is no medical examination
when prisoners arrive at the gaol! They
may enter as the man who died did, in a
THEN THE CAT PURRED.
“Dora says her husband absolutely misunder-
stands her.”
“Yes, what luck that girl has! He would
never have married her otherwise .”
condition bordering upon collapse, without
receiving any attention until the time
arrives for the medical examination. Un-
doubtedly a medical inspection should be the
very first thing to happen to any man who
reaches the jug.
A DAISY BY THE SAD SEASHORE.
THE ARTIST MAN: “Some day I hope you'll pose for me ?”
THE ARTLESS GIRL: “Oh, I couldn't —I'd he too shy!"
“Stripes”: If those people who insist
upon introducing the ideas of countries that
run spectacular armies on circus lines really
think it necessary to make the Prince of
Wales an officer of the Australian Army,
why not form a special brigade and make
him G.O.C. V We could draft into it the
hundreds of bogus star-wearers who held
army rank without doing any army fighting
and fill up the ranks with n.c.o’s who
fought battles with pay-books and records.
Frankly, we don’t want any of these shams
in the real Australian Army, whose glory is
its fighting record. Let those who want
an army of show and mummery have a
separate affair which they can run on their
own lines.
«• * * *
“Centurion”: “Camelero’s” complaint of
the poor stopping power of the .303 bullet
was first made, I think, when Lee-Enfiolds
came into action on the North-West frontier
of India. The bullets were about as effec-
tive as hailstones for breaking a Ghazi rush,
and the long Pathan knife had a merry
innings. Urgent appeals to the ammuni-
tion factory at Dum Dum, near Calcutta,
resulted in the invention of the famous
“dum-dum” bullet, guaranteed to stop the
most persistent nigger. The old Martini lead
bullet was never excelled for this purpose.
I met one in S. Africa, and thought a 15-
pounder shell had hit me. The Snider, too,
with all its low velocity, was a heavy hitter.
A Papuan cannibal on the Musa River, hit
in mid-thigh by a bullet from a police rifle
of that type, only required the snick of a
sheath knife to ease him of his leg.
* X- *• *
“Tas” : The recent burial of an armchair-
officer with “full military honors” emphasises
the farce of this kind of thing in these da vs
of Home Service, Pay Corps and Comforts
Fund generals, colonels and so on. In this
instance the orncer had never left his arm-
chair and desk; yet,
to complete the solemn
farce, a permanent
artilleryman padded
the hoof behind with
the customary
“c harger” fully
saddled, in the stir-
rups a pair of jack-
boots which had cer-
tainly never been
worn by the deceased
any more than the
horse had been ridden
by him. It was very
impressive for awhile.
But as the day was
warm most of the
mourners soon got
tired and took to
vehicles. Then the
gunner in charge of
the horse thought lie,
too, would give up walking. He waited
until the cortege got along a little; then,
mounting the charger, he galloped to rejoin
the procession, the jack-boots bouncing gaily
at the horse’s sides.
* * * *
“Dial Sight” : I hope that when the next
war comes along the Defence Department
will keep all politicians at home. Khaki,
M.P., is, as a rule, too keen on making
political capital out of the ghastly business.
With an eye to the hustings, he endeavors
to ingratiate himself by searching for small
grievances and building them up into moun-
tainous injustices. The continual practice of
“making representations” to the heads by
these spare field-marshals is apt to have a
disintegrating effect in any army. One noisy
champion of the Digger’s rights did nothing
more helpful to the cause for months than
to parade sick Billjims to the quack at a
base camp. At the same time he was doing
infinite harm by filling gullible Diggers with
his reasons for voting against further help
from home. We had hardly learnt with
astonishment that he had gone up the line
when he turned up in London. Shortly after
that he sailed home to spread his notions
about an officer-class, practically all his
SOUND TESTIMONY.
FIRST GIRLIE ( discussing a poisoning case) :
“But there isn't any doubt he tried to
do. it. They found the poison in her
medicine.”
SECOND GIRLIE: "How do you know?”
FIRST GIRLIE ( decidedly ): “Well, that was
the evidence of the Government Ana-
nias!”
knowledge about them gained amongst the
last hopes at the base. In one or two other
cases the politicians'took the other side, and,
though they did just as little to win the
war, they came home with distinctions.
“Harrison O.” : The howl raised in Mel-
bourne against the clause in the new Fac-
tories Act which closes chemists’ shops at
6 p.m. on four days a week is being exploited
by the Argus, which delights to picture
citizens dying in agony owing to the diffi-
culty of obtaining soothing syrup to ease
their last moments. The Act does not pre-
vent the dispensing of urgent prescriptions
after hours, and as chemists in the suburbs,
where the majority of people have a habit
of dying, mostly occupy houses attached to
their shops, they will be able to do their bit
for shuffling humanity as in the past.
Chemists’ shops have always closed at sotnc
time (recently at 8 p.m.), and people are
just as liable to be seized with an attack of
ingrowing freckles after eight as between
six and eight. The writer mis-spent the
days of his youth in a drug emporium which
remained open until 9.30. and the late sales
usually failed to cover the cost of lighting
and attendance. The evening customers
were mostly young men requiring sen-sen
and other aids to amorous dalliance, and
persons in urgent need of scented soap and
rat poison, not to njention citizens who
wished to be obliged with a penny stamp or
the use of the telephone. In nine cases out
of ten the people who desire to keep
pill-punchers and their assistants in their
shops when other workers are smooging
with Ermyntrude, sleeping in a theatre or
mending the youngster’s pram could make
their purchases during the day. There is
no more reason for the drug-seller to be
kept at work (and incideritally allowed to
compete in certain lines with the grocer and
fancy-goods vendor after these have had to
close their shops) than there is for the
tobacconist being similarly enslaved. Tin*
new Factories Act merely gives legal force
to the result of a referendum of metropolitan
chemists on the subject of early closing taken
in May last, and the wail anent Lawson's
inhumanity to man is an attempt to exploit
a sentimental gag upon the part of the fac-
tion which predicted dire calamity when it
was proposed to give persons employed in
the ribbon-selling industry a weekly half-
holiday.
# * * •
“Short Crop” : I read it in the barber’s at
the end of a half-hour wait: —
The Echo djs Paris understands that the British
Cabinet favoro M. Cletnenceau’s proposal that the
ex-Kaiser should be condemned in conlumacAam,
instead of being tried in person, thereby avoiding
difficulty with Holland in connection with his
extradition.
Wish to Heaven I could get my hair cut in
contumaciam!
* * # *
“II.M.”: What old humbugs we are!
Here we are trembling with pity for the
wild birds and beasts of Macquarie Island
that Frank Hurley tells us are being
“slaughtered” by the handful of sealers who
go there for oil. yet we don’t flick an eyelid
at the knowledge that cattle and sheep by
the thousand are daily herded into the
slaughter-yards to be turned into meat! If
man has a divine right to be a brute in order
to satisfy his necessities, honestly what is all
the trouble over?
* *• * *
llow an old Melbourne Court reporter
feels about it: —
The deputy-coroner in an illegal operation case last
week unloaded the usual sententiousness' about race
suicide and the way women assisted one another in
arranging these little domestic events. The sub-
ject of his remarks was a wife, aged 24, and the
mother of four children, not including the one she
killed (with herself) in her attempt to escape from
the Slavery of it all. I reported a case the same
week in which a woman of 39 had 10 single-birth
children; a few weeks ago another where a mother
of 32 had eight-—and
by an imbecile father!
Think of it —year after
year, and always the
dropping of the not-
long-born baby to take
up the nursing of the
only-just-born, with the
drag of the not-quite-
born filling in the
months between! No
wonder the willy-nilly
heroines grow desper-
ate under the strain and
try the complacent
midwife and the knit-
ting-needle. And then
some old male flutter
burbles about race-
suicide ! Instead of
covert sneers for the woman who stops at one, there
should be a D.S.O. for every mother of more than one.
When the Bombala jambed herself on
Salamander Reef several weeks ago, and
stayed there in spite of lightering and tug-
ging, most of us thought the old inter-Stater
had earned her last bob. But, though badly
holed and battered, she refused to break up.
Then portion of the reef was blasted away
and, with a whole aquarium in her hold and
a sickly list, the familiar trader crawled
into port. Last week, with official permis-
sion to proceed only to Brisbane, she limped
past Cape Moreton and came on to Sydney
for a major ship-operation that is going to
take six weeks. The salvage was due in
the first instance to the fine work of the
engineers, who built a coffer-dam round two
damaged stanchions and worked some minor
miracles below. But it wouldn’t have been
possible if the English builders hadn’t used
a lot of first-class cruiser plates and beams
that were lying by in their yards because
the Naval Estimates of 1904 had been re-
dvccd.
STANZAS WRITTEN BY A BARD WHO IS MOR-
BIDLY’ ANXIOUS TO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
PROFESSOR EINSTEIN DISCOVERED
ABOUT NEWTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
v' ! eH me ’ ' e professors of the higher mathematics,
' e ’ Varsity disciples at the feet of Mr. Wellisch,
' o ogle the parabola, philander with quadratics,
And dissect the harmless cycloid with a scientific
relish:
iaj tell me, all ye pundits of collegiate renown,
Did what went Up come Down ?
Surely somebody was chosen in that ’Varsity election-
"ho can P«t the matter clearly to his fellows
°n the Senate ; 1
What the Hades is the good of all this stuff about
‘deflection”
And its horrible effect upon the great Newtonian
tenet ?
IV hat 1 should like to know at once, and know for
once and all,
Is do or don’t things fall?
Don’t leave me in this flutter of suspense and
agitation,
Hut tell me, tell me quickly, what the devil in the
matter■
1 orget the fevered formula, relinquish the equation,
And (for the sake of Michael) cut the scientific
patter:
Is Newton squashed? Has Cambridge come an
academic flop ?
And did (ah, DID) the Apple drop?
N.S.W.
KENNETH SLESSOR.


THE
Onion Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE —15 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
KPMG AI.L.C. (Chairman). Hon. James
Ashton MLC, Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
MTP ’ F B. s Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd, W. 'H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V G WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
34*
deaf?
You cart HEAR, and
we prove it by posting
you an easy-to-wear
Acdusticon
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit, obligation, or expense. Over
330,000 delighted users, including the Priipe
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has heen using
the "Acousticon” for more than five years!
Lamson Service Co.
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB.
y.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Christo’h.
1P.,4.; 11. 'Little & Co., 85 1 Hay Street, Perth.
The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
tifiWOßfh
If EXTRA HIGH GRADER
READY-RUBBED
3]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARTIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNED
LINSEED
OIL
“Billy” Bertram, just elected Speaker of
the Queensland Assembly, might have been
more at home as Sergeant-at-arms. In
1899 and 1900 he was the State’s amateur
middleweight champion, and he has refereed
more fights perhaps than any other amateur
in Australia. llis appointment brings to
mind the old prize-ring champion, John
Gully, who became Speaker of the Mother
of Parliaments.
“D.” : Edmund Barton was an epicure in
a country that has few of them. Once he
was late at an important meeting of Minis-
ters, and a colleague several times made
apologetic excuses. Time dragged on, and
still there was no appearance of the Prime
Minister. Then, as there were signs of im-
patience, his most intimate friend intervened.
"I am sure,” he said, “matters of importance
must be keeping the Prime Minister. At
such a time as this I know he would not
allow himself to be detained by anything but
a dinner which it would be a shame to
neglect.”
You couldn’t get them much more mixed,
while still professing to be members of one
party, than the three Nationalists, sent to the
Senate by S'. Australia. Benjy Benny is a
true blue, a city solicitor, hitherto in public
no more than a suburban mayor and the
husband of the State's first woman council-
lor that’s a t
Bright on, too.
Newland, No. 2 on
the list, was a
Laborite: he used
to be a sleeping-car
conducto r and
reached the*’ State
House through a
rail w a y-m e n’s
union. And Vic.
Wilson, No. 3, the
son of a country
storekeeper, made
enough money him-
self in a store at
Broken Hill to set
up as a speculator
in real estate in
Adelaide, and now
is a good farmers’
man.
SURGEON-
GENERAL
CHARLES
RYAN.
Australia has mst its oldest Methody
minister, Joshua Foster, of Adelaide. He
had just turned 90, and had been preaching
for 70 years. He was the first parson of
any kind at Moonta mines in the ’sixties.
W. G. Stretton, just dead in the Northern
Territory, was as good an advertisement as
the tropics ever had. Like his friend,
Adam Lindsay Gordon, he was in th.e S. Aus.
Police at Mount Gambier in the ’sixties, but
exactly half a century ago he was sent to
the Territory, and there he stayed, living to
be 76. From mounted-trooper he- became
Customs officer, S.M. and everything else
at Borroloola, on the Gulf; Chief Warden
of Goldfields; Collector of Customs (follow-
ing Alfred Searcy, author), and S.M. at
Darwin. Stretton reared a large, healthy
family in the tropics; one of them, police-
sergeant in charge at Anthony’s 'Lagoon, was
prominent the other day in the relief ol lioss
Smith’s party.
Thomas Taylor gave up the struggle
against the climate of Brisbane the other
day allegedly at 103. He lett the Ould
Sod so long ago that dates became hazy.
Most of his life was spent timber-getting,
and 70 years ago he was pit-sawing at what
is now the busiest part of Brisbane s main
street. He did a lot of work after that,
which all goes to prove that the North is
not a fit place for white men.
When “Mint Sauce” Jones, Vic. Minister
of Railways, was charged with corruption,
the nominal plaintiff in the libel action that
followed was M. A. Alexander, then sec. ot
the Vic. Constitutional League. The old
man. best known otherwise as a tobacco-
broker, died last month at Hawksburn.
“Baarmutha”; Moses Baritz, the stout
little Hebrew lecturer from Manchester,
who lately went across to Maoriland, has
been sent' back to Sydney again. A little
thing like deportation doesn’t trouble him:
It is just what he
expects. Educated
for a rabbi, Baritz
fell to the worship
of Marx, and is
now, like so many
of .his race, con-
sumed with a pas-
sion for social re-
volution. He is a
stern critic, and his
scornful denuncia-
ti o n of “F ou r
F lusher s” and
“Labor skates” in
Sydney Domain is
worth going miles
to hear. His audi-
ence didn’t melt
away when Ilyan
came to town on
that famous Sun-
day last year. A
capable musician.
Baritz was at one
time on the Man-
chester G U A IN-
DIAN as m u s i c a 1
critic.
GEORGE
FOSTER, one of
the Speck’s newly-
elected Senators.
11. H. Champion defends his old friend
I notice in your last issue a paragraph decrying
Tom Mann’s methods, saying that he was “very
pale but carrying a flag,” and winding up that he
“never cut any ice” after he left Broken Hill. I
have known Tom Mann very intimately since 1882,
have travelled with him, fought elections for Par-
liament in Britain beside him, won the great Lon-
don Dock Strike of 1889 with his aid, and heard
him deliver the most effective epeeches ; and, owing
to his ability as an organiser both in Europe and
in Australasia, I say without hesitation that he is
the man who has done the most for the Socialist
movement. During the last 40 years 1 have met
and known the men of all countries, including the
U.S.A., and I would sooner have him with me when
in “a tight place” than anyone I know, and I have
tried him time and again. As to his “not cutting
any ice” since he left Broken Hill, he was chosen
last year by a large majority of his fellow unionists
to be the secretary of the Amalgamated Society of
Engineers, the richest and best managed trade union
of skilled workmen in Great Britain. Moreover,
though I have known him personally through a life-
time, I have never heard from him a word of self-
defence. Surely it is time for his great work for
his class to be recognised.
W. G. Goddard, of the Norwich Union, in
Sydney, who died lately, was chairman of
the North Shore committee which probed
the Dean case, with the result that a Com-
mission was appointed, Dean was released,
and Richard Denis Meagher’s troubles began.
Dean these days is in the Far West
(N.S.W.).
The first Tas. Senator elected in the
recent count was J. D. Millen, formerly
manager of Mt. Bischoff, president of the
Loyalty League. He is quite new to poli-
tics, a' good deal past middle age, kindly-
faced and chubby-bellied, and probably owes
his election to his affabilitv when talking
on most subjects and the quick-change
artistry with which he assumes a gravely
portentous tone when referring to the machi-
nations of Rome. The second man to reach
the top of the poll was George Foster,
formerly M.11.A. for a brief period, one of
the earliest arrivals from Gallipoli and parts
adjacent, and for a while sec. of the
R.S.A. He campaigned in co. with Millen
and swapped Number Twos with him. lie
carried the endorsement of the Nationalist.
Farmers and Loyalty organisations, and
shared with O’Keefe (Labor) and Mulcahy
(Nat.) whatever favors were m the gift ot
Bung. The third of the Speck’s new Sena-
tors is Herbert James Mockford Payne, ex-
and formerly a terribly conscien-
tious Treasurer in the Solomon Ministry ot
half a dozen years ago. He is a lug fellow
with the remains of a curly head of hail
and a cheery ogle acquired in the drapery
trade. ,
Gone west, at 96, James H. Stewart, of
Mount Pleasant, near Bathurst —a large
landed proprietor and nothing more. 1S
father, Major-General Stewart, came here
in Governor Brisbane’s time with lne
Buffs.” While in Sydney on his first stay
he was for a few days acting-Governor
between the departure of Brisbane and the
arrival of Darling. He found about a dozen
men lying under sentence of death. Ihese
he reprieved, holding that the worst use you
can put a man to is to hang him. An old
legend, which still exists, is that during Ins
acting-Governorship Colonel (as he then
was) Stewart ascended Mount lleasant,
“selected” all the land within view, and
granted it to himself. The truth is that
Stewart was entitled, for military services
rendered, to 3000 acres. These he selected
on the Macquarie, and purchased IJ,OUO
acres at the then upset price, us. per acre.
It was, by the way, at the instance of Dar-
ling that the Colonel made his selection
where he did, the Governor being anxious
that the lands beyond the Macquarie should
be opened up. The Buffs, after four years
service, went to India, where the Colonel
remained until he became a major-general.
He came back in the first ’thirties to look
after his property, and built himself a house,
which still stands, opposite the present man-
sion, which was built by the son. At this
time his wife and family were in Scotland,
and hearing that Stewart had returned to
Australia, his agent packed the lot
off to this country. The most sur-
prised man in N. S. Wales, on that day in
1333, was the General when it was notified
that a family awaited him in Sydney. They
all crossed the Blue Mountains in 1833,
and there J. H. Stewart resided all his life.
The General died in 1845, and, at his own
desire, was buried in a vault on the top of
Mount Pleasant. A team of bullocks was
needed to convey the coffin up the steep
pinch to the top, which was reached, as a
Chronicler of the time said, with much
swearing and sweat.”
Cricketer Frank Laver’s Victorian estate
was sworn for probate at. £18.154. . And
there is something also outside Victoria.
There is one woman in Bananaland As-
sembly Miss F. McMorrow, who takes her
turn along with the other Hansarp men.
She does it well, too. And Hardacre, who
lately jumped from the Education portfolio
to a seat on the Land Court Bench, had a
lady as private sec.
Dean Hegarty, who succeeds Father
O’Connell in Carlton parish, narrowly
escaped becoming first Bishop of Sale 32
years ago. He was the runner-up when
Dr Corbett got the selection. After suc-
ceeding Dr. Corbett in St. Kilda parish, the
Dean went to Kyneton in 1895. and is still
a youngster of 73 with the bells of khan-
don in his voice.
“Bishop” Barnes, who was recently sus-
pended “for the remainder of the week”
from the Bananaland Assembly for refusing
to withdraw an allegation of disloyalty
against Lennon, the new Lieut.-Governor.
was the central figure in a fine old row in
the same House in Wullie Kidston s time.
Barnes electrified the House one day by
declaring that Kidston had been drummed
out of Falkirk. There was plenty of evi-
dence forthcoming to disprove the statement,
but if Barnes ever retracted nobody noticed
it When not in the House he is president
of the local Y.M.C.A.. and has just emerged
victorious from a couple of real good sciaps
with some of the old Board of the institu-
tion.
Jim Vaughan, ex-Attorney-General ot
S. Aus., who enlisted as a private, is back
in Adelaide at his law work. He lost his
seat while away; and now lie has sent
(“in fairness to my constituents,” lie says)
a challenge to the Official Labor party,
which he used to belong to, but from which
he broke away on the question of conscrip-
tion :
Your party having declared its acceptance of the
principle that the jobs of the men who enlisted and
fought in the war should be. made available for
them upon their return, I desire to offer you the
opportunity to carry it ont in my own case. In
1918 when I had no opportunity to defend my seat
in the Leg. Council, the elections toolc place, and a
member of your party has since occupied the seat. It
would he grossly unjust not to-give the constituency
an opportunity to express its will now that I am able
to contest the district in person. The contest can
tul-" n'lace as soon as the member of your party
resigns. .
Ex-i’remier Crawford Vaughan, his brother
says, may very likely go for the House of
Commons, but is too busy for at least the
next year to think of Parliamentary life on
either side of the world.
Alec Poynton has retained his seat in
the House of Reps., and if he completes the
present term he will have done 30 years
continuous Parliamentary service in btat#
and Commonwealth. Of the 13 originals sent
to represent S.,Aus. in 1901 Poynton is the
only one left in Parliament.
A tough old son of the sea is Captain H.
E. Greenstreet, formerly commodore ot the
New Zealand Shipping Co. Two years ago
he retired after 90 voyages round the world;
and now he’s back in Maoriland from Eng-
land on a trip!
He has rounded
the Horn 75 times
and cut the Line
in halves 192
times. He has,
roughly, travelled
2,500,000 miles of
sea, without count-
ing going up the
combers and down
again, has never
been off duty
through illness for
a day. has never
had serious trouble
with a ship, and
reckons he could
start all over again
and do it just as
well.
GAVIN
HAMILTON.
Private secretary
to his Ex. o
Maoriland and
many times P.S. to
other cocked hats
of the Shaky Isles.
The shade of many a million-year-
old fossil waved greetings to a devoted
friend when Curator R. Etheridge, of
the Australian Museum (Sydney), crossed
the river the other day. Born in Glouces-
tershire (Eng.), he came to Australia
first to join the Vic. Geological Survey,
and then returned to the Cold Country as
paleontologist to the Geological Survey of
Scotland. Afterwards he was senior assis-
tant in the British Museum’s Geological De-
partment. In 3887 he was appointed pale-
ontologist to the N.S.W. Geological Survey,
and he edited the Department’s bulletins
until he became curator of the Museum in
1895. But he still retained all his old affec-
tion for his old love, " t hl in company with
Dr. R. L. Jack gained the Clarke Memorial
medal for learned remarks about the Ma
State’s mineral resources, and off his own
bat scored other distinctions for natural his-
tory research.
From an old Gallery hand: —
Considering his talents it is surprising how little
p. M. Glynn has said that you can remember. His
only speech that sticks in my mind was delivered at
the Federal Convention in ’9B, and (this is typical of
the man) it was in support of the incorporation in
the preamble of the words, “Humbly relying on the
blessing of Almighty God.” Some future Tay Pay,
delving for literary extracts, will serve it up as a
cameo from the classics.
“Veronal” : The passing of Edmund Bar-
ton recalls his brainy but unsuccessful
brother, George Bernard, responsible for
“Poets and Prose-writers of New South
Wales” (whereby he lost £4O). and the
earlier part of the uncompleted Botany Bay
history. While on the history, G.B. lodged
in Macquarie-street, and his figure, com-
manding though inclined to leanness, was
familiar in the Botanic Gardens, where he
often strolled. The early death of Herbert
Hammersjey Barton (son of G. 8.) robbed
Australia of an intellect of great promise.
G. 8., I think, ended his days in the Sheriff’s
office.
Plant-patliologist Daniel McAlpine reached
71 on January 21. He has been vegetable
pathologist to the Victorian Department of
Agriculture for the last 30 veal's, and en-
joys a world reputation for his investigations
of apple “bitter pit” and for his monographs
relating to fungus diseases of Australian
crops and native plants.
W. G. Mcßeatli, of Flinders-lane, who did
fine work in an honorary capacity for Aus-
tralia during the war, helping to put some
business methods into the Defence Depart-
ment, first at home and then in London,
has gone back to his old side-line job as
chairman of the Vic. State Savings Bank
Commissioners. George Turner held the post
for a few years before his death.
Lieut.-Colonel Beardsmore, just home,
served in New Guinea, Egypt and France,
whence he was Blightied into administrative
work. Before the war he was the Aborigines
Protection Board’s secretary and a National
Rifle Assoc, councillor. Last July he com-
manded the A.I.F. Rifle Team which in the
Kolapore, Mackinnon and Empire Cup shoot-
ing outed the other “colonial” teams and
lobbed home just behind J. Bull.
[John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and C. R. Bradish, Old Exchange,
Melbourne.]
(Continued on page 18.)
IN THE MORNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Since the war the Englishwoman’s objection to
paint and powder has been intensified. Possibly
ope..-air war-work is a contributing cause.”
If paint and powder are out of the play,
And set for a maiden’s scorning,
Shall the world be glad, can the world be gay
At nine o'clock in the morning?
l'or a cat may look at. a queen, they say—queen, they
say—queen, they say-
Oh, a cat may look at a queen, they say,
At nine o’clock in the morning!
The sun is happy the whole of the day,
And the brown of his kiss is charming:
And the freckled fairy who tosses the hay
Has a cuticle past all harming.
Oh, a cat may look at a queen, they say—queen, they
say—-queen, they saj—•
Yes, a cat may look at a queen, they say,
But her gaze might prove alarming.
Here we go gathering nuts in May
On a cold and frosty morning;
And the tilted nose of the prettiest fay
Is a rosy blush adorning.
For a cat may look at a queen, they say—queen,
they say—queen, they say—
Oh, a cat may look at a queen, they say,
And see what she’s like in the morning!
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


m
&
ai
Navy Cu t
Tobacco
In airligkl tins
W.D. & H.O.WILLS
LMN
400
PIPES
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
JHKJH
t „ery P 'P e Guaran, ee<l
LMN


HJKJH
Sunshine
Horseless
Harvesters
6ft. with 2-Cylinder
Engine * 3S *^ ustrate^-
Bft. with 4-Cylinder
Engine.
Work longer hours.
Strip any crop.
Low fuel cost.
More acres per day
with less work for
driver.
Engine Suitable for Chaff-
cutting, Pumping, etc.,
when harvest is over.
...... * ■
1
m
; V V J, ."L« ‘ ' /> ! ’ &* * 1 . v ll ' \
v . , v* . » \“■ j ' ■’.
’ : :■
,;i tl
; ■
v
?
V> '
1
< *t -
*? * •
' ■ i f ~ i*
if 1 * JS> rh l '4V
i
' , ’Si ! H 0
■ ' l lh ?r
v s. 1
' \ : * *
.'• */{I .* %»f * &T ,
K •
i,/ 9 ' 1
■
.- i *vV ’ i ? . . ' .
; V:
'
; *
..- *
H. V. McKAY, Harvester works, Sunshine.
Write to any of the following addresses for Catalogue of all Farm Implements (post free)
Branches
(Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
-J 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
[Corner Collins & Spencer Streets, Melbourne.
Corner York & St. John Streets, Launceston.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
With the defeat of Paddy Glynn, the
Reps, loses the one member who could quote
Greek to his friends for the pure joy of
the sound and without an idea of swank.
He is a Trinity College (Dublin) man.
Either the greatest insult or the finest
compliment Billy Hughes got during the elec-
tion campaign was flung up to him at his
own Bendigo. After a characteristic per-
formance, “Gawd, what a pantomime dame
he’d make!” came hurtling up to the plat-
form.
Just after Ryrie was promoted Major-
General he was, with a Tommy general,
watching the embarkation of a regiment for
Australia. A very happy Digger staggered
up and touched him on the arm. “S’cuse
me, General,” he said, “but my mate bet me
a quid I wasn’t game to come up and speak
to you.” Ryrie looked at him, whilst the
Britisher showed all the‘preliminary signs of
apoplexy. “You win easy, old man,” he said,
gently steering the joyous one back in the
direction of his mates.
The Blue Mountains townlet Ilazelbrook
has six residents who tot up 503 years
between them; and the babv of the bunch
is The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant.”
Syd Jackson, August Jensen’s successor
for Bass (Tas.), is a shining light of the
A.N.A. His father is one of the finest lock-
smiths in Australia, and all the Common-
wealth ballot-boxes are secured with Jack-
son locks.
“Cape Pork” : At a picnic race-meeting in
Cape York Peninsula I lately met one of the
principal characters in the great Australian
drama of the Kelly Gang. He was Sergeant
Kilpatrick, an old but well-preserved man
now, and partner in the big N.Q. business
of Grogan and Kilpatrick, cattle-dealers,
drovers and butchers.
When Duncan Gillies, in his day the giant
of the Yic. Assembly, was a lad he had to
work in his father’s orchard in Scotland
with helpers hired for the picking season.
Pickers were forbidden to eat the fruit, but
one named Penny was notoriously heedless,
and it was part of Dunky’s job to fre-
quently order Penny to “whustle” —to test
whether his mouth was full. After that the
boys of the village always baited Dunky by
calling out “Whustle, Penny.” Old politi-
cal hands still wonder what would have hap-
pened if, when Dunky was making one of
his withering speeches, some imp had inter-
jected "Whustle. Penny !”
Gunner Gilbert Taylour, organiser of
Brisbane Comrades of War League, and one
of the founders of the Returned Soldiers’
Labor League up north, is a young Tip-
perary man with a lot of push. A student
of medicine before' the war, he carries two
discharges from the A.1.F., and served in the
Army Medical, the Field Ambulance, a
Machine-Gun Section and the British Cav-
airy. While he
wa s convalescing
in England. Ram-
say M acdonald
heard hi m speak
and urged him to
stay and have a go
for the Commons,
but T a ylou r
wouldn’t. Coming
home on the troop-
ship Be 11 ana, he
published T ii E
Buzzer, mainly to
protest ag’in the
treatment of sick
and sentenced Dig-
gers, and kept it
going after land-
in g in Banana-
land. Last year,
w h e n Cuthbert
Butler, M.L.A..
Lab o r candidate
for Lockyer. fell
ill, Taylour jumped
in, carried on the
campaign, and won
for Labor a seat
that Cocky Arm-
strong had sat on
for 23 years.
DUDLEY LE
SOUEF, Director
of Melbourne Zoo.
A Bass (Tas.) candidate, Luke J. Bryant,
who persuaded 170 people to vote for him, is
the world’s champion deposit-loser. For 20
years he has been trying to persuade Laun-
ceston to give him a seat in either State
House, either of the Federal Houses or the
Municipal Council, and Launceston has de-
clined to put him anywhere but on the mat.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” story:—
The original Chirnside, Thomas, progenitor of the
Werribee man who has given £6OOO worth of his
estate for returned soldiers’ use, arrived in Adelaide
in January, 1839. Two months later he was in
Sydney, where he was much disappointed with the
appearance of the country. lie purchased sheep on
the Murrumbidgee in April, returned to Sydney, and
bought a dray and eight bullocks with the idea of
taking his mob to Port Phillip. Before he reached
Berrima four of his bullocks died of starvation;
and in consequence of heavy losses of sheep also, he
changed his mind, left what remained of his mutton
on the Murrumbidgee, bought cattle and took them
overland to Adelaide. Arrived there he got another
knock—cattle had fallen from £2O to £7, at which
price he sold. Returned to Sydney by way of
Hobart Town, he found the appearance of the coun-
try quite changed, a good deal of rain having fallen
in the interval. So he lifted his sheep and started
for Port Phillip, arriving on the Loddon in May,
1840. All the country north of Oapt. Hepburn and
Mr. C'oghill was unoccupied, and Chirnside took out
a license for the country adjoining; then sold that,
and formed another station at Mount William
(1542) ; next (1845) he formed a station 40 miles
from Guichen Bay (S.A.). A few years later he
settled on the Werribee, country previously occupied
bv Mr. Simpson, the first honorary Justice at Port
Phillip.
“Digger”: A Sydney paper has written of
“Mr. Bottomley, whose courage and inde-
pendence throughout the war were of ines-
timable public benefit.” At that a wide smile
runs through that part of the A.I.F. which
was in a position to follow the career of
Horatio and his paper. His courage is a
myth, and his independence a bluff that was
exposed every time it was called. A famous
Englishman remarked that “every man has
his price.” Bottomley’s is the toleration of
the highly-placed. He got on to a really good
stunt in 1918—the abolition of shooting for
so-called cowardice, desertion and the like in
the British Army. Rawlinson’s “Orders”
were never read without disclosing the names
of unfortunate Tommies who, finding
warfare too much for them, had retired from
the scene (it was the same, of course, in the
other British commands) ; and the Diggers
who, much to Haig’s disgust, were not liable
to capital punishment, were as keen as any-
body to see it wiped out. They had high
hopes of Bottomley when an English boy-
subaltern was shot for cowardice, and a
furious campaign was started in John
Bull. Haig’s response was to invite Bot-
tomley to stay with him at G.H.Q. From
then onwards the teeth of John Bull were
gone so far as that scandal was concerned.
Horatio’s “Hands Off Haig!” article was
about the most extravagant boost militarism
has ever had from a journal which set itself
up as an organ of democracy and the sol-
dier. The individual whom Bottomley usu-
ally referred to as “Tommy’s pal Jack” was
getting restive about the same time; and
with cause. None of the present pay and
messing changes had then oeen introduced in
the Navy. Bottomley uttered a howl or two.
Beatty invited him to make a trip on his flag-
ship. Exit Bottomley as a vitriolic critic
of the Navy! The Diggers summed up
John Bull as a loud-voiced “washout” at a
comparatively early stage of the campaign;
and long before the last Somme offensive most
of the Tommies thought likewise.
As a member
of the Vic. Tippah
H nnse Russell
Clarke believes in
attending to pub-
lic affairs- in a
regular way. If
he wants to know
something about
his constituency or
the State he does
not put it to young
brother Frank, in
the Melbourne
Club or in the cor-
ridor of the House,
but laboriously
writes out ques-
tions and puts
them on the notice
paper. Then Frank
lias to “fag” for
him to the extent
of shaking up a
colleague or a
public-service offi-
cer, and reading
out the answers
“in reply to the
honorable member.”
Yet they are great
pals.
CAPTAIN DYETT,
Federal President of
the Returned
Soldiers’ League.
The goldfields welcome a parson:—
Anybody who has been within coo-ee of the West-
ralian fields during the last quarter of a century
has heard of Archdeacon Collick (you can drop the
archdeacon if you’re in a hurry)—a man who is
known to more blackfellows, gins and piccaninnies
than any other white in the South. He first met
Binghi in the early Coolgardie days, and every
Christmas he rounded them up and provided them
with rigouts, as much tucker as they could stack
away, and a sports gathering to top off with.
During the war the blacks have been strafing the
Hun for keeping their benefactor away ; but recently
he came home a lieut-colonel with 41 years’ service
to his credit, so it’s all right again. As a young
parson Collick spent a few years in the London
slums, and on coming to Westralia headed for
Coolgardie. For 24 years he has been identified with
the life of the fields. Once in the early days he was
badly in need of a spell, and, the camp deciding to
give him a couple of months at the seaside, he was
packed off on the team with a weighty purse in his
pocket. Just when the camp was beginning to picture
their tourist splashing in the sea he turned up with
his legs dangling from a camel’s back. His money
had mostly gone on the trip down, for he could no
more refuse a deadbeat a bob than he could cycle
past a group of youngsters without grabbing a hat
and racing for the nearest lolly-shop.
POETIC LICENSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“‘I love you, dear!’ the maiden purred;
Her eyes were bright, her mouth rich-red;
And easily her blushes stirred,
"Which made her hang a modest head
To hide her cheeks aflame with fire.
Too well I knew a dunce was she
In love’s delicious mystery
New-wakened to a strange desire.
Of such loves lovers quickly tire ;
Her fond words did not flatter me.
“Of literature what do they know
Who hut a single hook peruse?
Do artists feel of pride a glow
To hear the eulogistic views
Of those who’ve but one painting seen ?
Give me a woman who’s my peer
In all Love’s arts, and does not fear
The bites and stings of passion keen,
With burning eyes of saffron sheen,
And let her say; ‘I love you, dear!'
“Then would I take her in my arms
And with hot kisses stifle her!
Love’s wild excursions and alarms
To undreamt ecstasies would stir
Us, and our Wood would he as wine,
Till one should pant at last: ‘Desist!’”—
The poet wrote. And maids who'd missed
As much as he of frenzy fine
Cried: “Would that such a man were mine!”
But still-—like him —remained unkissed!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


LLOYD GEORGE
In a speech during the war, Lloyd George told the Dominions that
the way in which they could best help the Empire was by becoming
self-supporting and self-sufficient.
Australian Engineers will assist in making Australia safe and self-
supporting if they use nothing but
AUSTRALIAN STEEL
Australian Iron and Steel have been proved by actual test to be the
equal of any the world produces.
AUSTRALIAN STEEL FOR AUSTRALIAN WORKSHOPS


LESLIE
SALT
LICKS
FOU/ILL ANIMALS
PURE STERILIZED
SALT.
ISN’T HE WORTH 1/6?
■ Are YOU salting YOUR animals the right
way —the sure way —the pure way —
with “LESLIE” —the Original Salt Licks?
Why endanger the health of your horses, cows, sheep and pigs
by giving them impure rock salt or inferior substitutes ?
“Leslie” Salt Licks, made in Australia, are the product of sea
and sunshine —wholesome sea salt condensed,sterilised and dried
in the bright sunshine at Port Augusta, South Australia.
“Leslie” Salt Licks bring fresh vital health to all animals—
glossy coat and energetic strength to your horses, splendid
condition and bigger supplies of rich milk and cream to your
cows, longer and heavier fleeces and better weight to your
sheep, and solid firmer fleshiness to your pigs.
“Leslie ’ Salt Licks are used in the stables of Biplane, Desert
Gold, Westcourt and many other famous racers.« Dairymen
and pastoralists all over the Commonwealth are increasing
their profits by the use of these wonderful tonic salt blocks.
Can you afford to overlook them? Why not order some to-day?
Each 5-lb. block is fitted with a loop, by which it can be hung
in any convenient position, away from all dirt and filth.
“Hang them by the loop/ 9
17/* a case of one dozen 5-lb. Licks.
Plus freight to Country Districts.
OBTAINABLE AT
All Storekeepers, Produce Merchants, Saddlers, and Blacksmiths throughout Australasia.
The Tin Scratchers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ABOUT eighty miles down the coast
from Cooktown (Q.), on the summit
of a great, lonely, scrub-covered
mountain, perched among almost inaccessible
ranges, there is a small camp of tin-
scratchers. When I landed among them ten
years ago there were twelve men and a
white woman married to a nigger. There
was another black man on the field com-
monly known as “the Coon.” I remember
the excitement when the first-mentioned
black man and his missus got out per the
monthly packer a gramophone. It was the
Coon’s hobby to while away part of each
lonely night by sitting at his humpy-door
and blowing away on an old tin-whistle some
tune which was evidently a studied insult
to the other nigger a little lower down in
the scrub. The night after the packer’s
visit the Coon had hardly got his whistle
to work when the silence of the mountain
night was rent by “Coon, coon, coon, Ah
wish mah color would fade,” rendered by
a shrieking gramophone. From that night
on the tin-scratchers swear the Coon began
to turn grey.
Once a week the mail reaches this lonely
place—that is, if the mailman has been
able to cross the turbulent rivers that lie
in the way. Then is discussed the question
of moment to the little settlement —the
price of tin. It has climbed up a unit, or
slid down a point. The great affairs of the
far-away, dim world are of little concern.
What matters it so long as tin is worth
enough to bring in tucker with the minimum
of labor?
I was away for a few years, and when
I again visited the field the same men were
there, altered only in that they had grown
older and more distrustful of their neigh-
bors. “Someone” had been “ratting” the
sluice races of their tin. Men sat up all
night on their claims, hidden among the
dense vines, the crooning creek voices in
their ears, a Winchester across their knees,
and grim, bitter thoughts for company.
Christmas, like most other Christmases,
had been a hot time for the jungle camp.
The packer had arrived well laden with the
annual order of whisky and rum. The two
black men had been the first to renew their
old feud. Well soaked in spirits, they had
stalked each other among the trees, sniping
at sight, one with a rifle, the other with
a double-barrelled gun. The gun had won
in the long run —with a flying shot when
the enemy leapt to cover behind a fallen log.
Then the whites waded in to settle long-
smouldering grievances ; and the aboriginals
about the camps, seizing the chance while
the white men were otherwise engaged, stole
their fill of rum and in their turn joined in
the furious mix-up which raged until Christ-
mas was long past.
While heads were still sore I was back at
the field again. The first liumpy-door I
knocked at was opened slowly, and a man
whom I had known well gazed suspiciously
at me, without returning my “What ho,
Jim —how’s things going?” Grey bristles
were thick in his beard, and his hair was
longer than I'd ever known it before.
Abruptly he said:
“You called in at them new blokes before
you came here. Why didn’t you come here
first?”
“I just bade them the time of day as I
passed, Jim,” I answered him. “Why,
what’s wrong with them?”
“A man’s got to be careful in this
place now,” he muttered surlily. “Things
ain’t peaceful like they was when you was
here last. Come in if you want to.”
He retired into the humpy, and after a
slight, hesitation I followed. I asked him about
the old hands and got angry v answers. It
appeared some of them were continually
“shaking” his tin. When he waited for them
on his claim at night they would steal the
“sweet buks” out of his garden, which was
a heinous crime.
“But I’ll get ’em yet,” he said. “You
see this!” And he moved a piece
of board from a slab. It showed a
two-inch auger-hole. He looked at me cun-
ningly. “Loophole,” he said. “I’ve got ’em
in every third slab. At night I run a
lawyer-vine round the humpy, about a foot
from the ground. Opposite each loophole
I’ve tied a tin to the lawyer-vine. I’ve
practised every night fer a month, an’ now
I know which loophole to run to by the
sound of the tin. You see, I picked tins
what each had a different sound. Let one
of these s trip agen that tin an’ I’ll fill
him fuller of lead than a cheese is of
weevils. I’ve got two rifles, an’ a shot-gun,
an’ a revolver loaded ready up to the muzzle.
See? Good idea, ain’t it?”
I admitted gracefully that his genius
would have been priceless in the great war.
He had turned to his loophole again.
Suddenly he faced me.
“Who’s that tulkin’ to the new blokes
now ?”
“Oh. I suppose that’s my mate.”
“Is he a good shot?”
“One of the best that ever enlisted.”
He grunted, and turned again to the loop-
hole.
I sneaked out of the humpy and joined my
cobber and explained matters to him. “Look
here, Dick, “I wound up, “all these fossils
are touched. The scrub has got ’em. If
we did strike a good claim we might settle
down here. And in ten years’ time I’d be
sitting up all night waiting for you with a
gun. And you’re a lot better shot than me.
No, I don’t like it. This scrub gets on a
man’s nerves. Let’s clear out.”
Dick laughed. “Can’t say I’ve fallen in
love with any of the whiskers around here
myself.” he said. “We’ll get.”
We got.
G[?]


S' f
f a''\
m
05
HE
L| ...
“
■ifi
m
mpj
*
I.
.
#8$3"J
m
Jl
M
UK
■
. .
itfl
««/>*»
wm
1
k\
>*•
:
M
' :
X.
mmM
MONTEREY
THE PNEUMATIC TOOL HOSE
OF PROVEN EFFICIENCY
PNEUMATIC tools equip man with the
strength of a giant for those multitu-
dinous tasks ot industry, in which the
old time man handled hammer and drill
once laboured in slow progress.
But the efficiency of this powerful device for saving
and aiding labour depends entirely on the length of
air-hose—the air-line—which transmits the force of
compressed air to the point of application.
And measured by every requirement of the most severe service
“ Monterey ” pneumatic tool hose meets these exacting
conditions best.
Built on what is known as the “ wrapped ply ”
principle, “ Monterey '* pneumatic tool hose has
an inner tube of exceptional strength, which
is reinforced with ply upon ply of the highest
grade friction fabric and a tough outer cover
3-32 inch in thickness to resist abrasion.
Finally vulcanised or cured into one integral
whole by the live steam process, “ Monterey”
pneumatic tool hose will resist pressures up
to at least four times the greatest working
pressures employed and retain the air without
leak or seepage, because of the non-porous
character of the rubber compounds.
Lighter, stronger and more resilient than wire-
bound hose, “ Monterey ” pneumatic tool hose
gives added service, because it offers a positive
resistance to oil and grease.
Ask to have these better service features
demonstrated to you. We have a representative
at your service in every State. Write or call
up any of the branches listed below.
ELDER SMITH & CO. LIMITED
■
iIS»
mmmm
« HOSE
PA.CKI N G * VALVES
'
Bn
O
: : V.
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ERISBANE
PERTH


■n
IlSlltil
ssa
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Gent.’s Hair Brush,
plain design, embossed edge, finest-quality
Bristles, 25/-
A. Saunders’
Shaving Brush,
solid Silver,
finest-quality
Bristles, 15/6.
’ : :r ■' v - ■ '•
El
Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure Silver-plated,
quality, hand burnished, silk lined, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Swan Fountain-pen, f)ct. Gold Bands.
Plain, 21/-, 23/6.
Chased, 22/6, 25/-
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Brush and Comb, highly burnished
and engraved, finest-qualitv Bristles, in Silk-lined Case,
50/-
m,
m
Sam tiers’ Lady’s Work Basket, fitted with every
convenience, £3/5/- Others, £2.
A. Saunders’
Amber Cigar-
ette Holder,
Gold-mounted,
in plain solid
jd
cv.
. I 'O
►f»f r >TY's:"-g *
**»M*r
-.r-
I^SZZZ
A. Saunders’ Nine-piece Manicure Set, solid Silver, highly
burnished, finest quality Instruments, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station),
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Tobacco Box, plain
design, gilt lined, self-acting spring lid,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-
A. Saunders’ solid Silver Photo Frame,
highly burnished, plain design.
Cabinet size, 40./-
Imperial size, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Pocket Fruit Knife, solid Silver Blade, carved
Pearl Handle, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 12/6.
■■■!■ |> Hl', , '
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, real Morocco Leather,
sterling Silver Mounts and Shields, 20/-
Others, 25/-. 30/-. 35/-. 40/"
Mosuiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dun-
edin, M.L.) :
Written To Re- Re-
Oet., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1908. .£7,073 5 p.c. = £4173 £2746 £154 £17,366
1909.. 7,230 54 „ „ 4590 2500 140 17,500
1910.. 9,845 6' „ „ 5007 4500 338 17,844
1911.. 8,466 6 ~ „ 5007 3000 459 15,303
1912.. 11,827 7 '., .. 5842 5500 485 15,788
1913.. 10,428 7 ~ .. 5842 4500 86 18,874
1914.. 9,450 7 „ ~ 5842 4000 18,482
1915. . 12,937 7 „ .. 5842 5000 2095 20.577
1916.. 24,607 9 ~ „ 7511 7510 9586 30,163
1917.. 10,012 9 „ „ 7511 6500 26,164
1918.. 22,828 10 ~ 8346 9719 4763 30,927
1919.. 22,959 10 ~ „ 8346 8338 0275 37,202
This co. has had another very good year, but
though disclosed profits were a few pounds
more than for 1918 it is doubtful whether
actual results were better. Gross trading
profit fell off from £56.185 to £52,480, but
there was a greater reduction on the expenses
side, chiefly, it seems, because less was spent
on maintenance of plant. During the past
five years the co. has done very well out of
war contracts, and because Maorilandcrs
have necessarily been more dependent on
home industry. This comparison gives an-
other view of the co.’s war record: —
Charges,
Manufac- Working Exes. Salaries
luring and Plant and
Profits. Maintenance. Taxes.
1914 .. .. £21,723 £2Bll £6,684
1915 .. .. 25,932 3162 5.452
1916 . . . . 40,307 4133 6,918
1917 .. .. 36,542 4231 16.959
1918 .. .. 56,185 7805 19,113
1919 . . . . 52,480 5750 18,691
The 1917 figures explain the small profits
shown for that year in the first table. About
that time the Maoriland Treasury began to
reach out, and taxation payments have been
heavy since, and are certainly going to be
stiff in future. But the fact that the co.
has been able to disclose the good results
shown in the first table, after meeting large
taxes, is eloquent of the very fine run the
concern has had since the war gave it an
opportunity. During the five years to 1914
the management showed £28.516 of net pro-
fits after writing off £21.500, and £27,540
was distributed. During the past five years
£37,057 has been written off. leaving £56,276
of disclosed net profits, of which £37.556 has
been divided. Compared with still earlier
times results show an even more remarkable
expansion; for instance, 13 years ago the co.
could not rake up enough profit to meet the
24 p.c. dividend distributed.
Here is a comparison of the balance-sheet
figures over the past 10 years:—
1909. 1914. 1919.
Liabilities .. ..£26,679 £12,719 £25,069
Plant and fixed property 74,179 66,590 46,447
Goods 49,492' 44,407 50,660
Book debts . . . . 8,430 10,303 29,232
Cash, etc 132 201 27,735
During the whole of the period paid capital
has remained stationary at £83,457 ; but for
some years prior to 1914 the management
had to lean on outsiders. Now, however, it
has in cash assets alone several thousands
over and above liabilities. In 1909 there
were surplus liquid assets of £31,375; in
1914. £42.192; and at the latest balance.
£82.558. Taking the book value of fixed
assets into the calculation the 1909-34
period showed an improvement of £3225;
and the five years since an improvement of
£20,223. though during the latter period
£8774 mere was divided among shareholders.
The book value of factories, machinery
and plant decreased by £7589 between 1909
and 1914, and by £20.143 since then. Be-
sides substantial allowances for replacements,
the accounts give clear evidence of hard
writing down. Having a solid holding of
cash wherewith to make replacements, the
co. is in a very comfortable position to face
the future —a future which should be very
bright for Australasian manufacturing con-
cerns. This Mosgtel co. is in a particularly
healthy position from shareholders’ point of
view: except for about £9OO, the whole of
the paid capital is now represented by sur-
plus liquid assets.
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends, signors, serves, serves.
1909.. £9,924 6 p.c. = £704 £9,186 £34 £1,124
1910.. 10,144 6 „ „ 865 10,403 --
1911.. 9,221 6 „ „ 946 8,244 31 31
1912.. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913.. 17,718 6 .. 1222 14,948 1,548 1,643
1914.. 15.522 6 .. 1446 14,056 20 1,663
1915.. 18,993 6 .. „ 1605 16,681 707 2,370
1916.. 1.9,557. 6 ~1892 18,325 1,710
1917.. 20,199 6 ~ 2170 18,118 -- 1,621
1918.. 25,993 7 ~ „ 2839 22,768 386 2,007
1919.. 25,233 7 ~ ~ 4320 21,279 1,641
Sept.,
1919.. 16,356 r 16,356 17,997
This co. continues to do fine work for the
farmers of N. S. Wales, and there is nothing
more hopeful in connection with primary
production in the State than the growth of
the C.F.S.’s turnover. Ten years ago the
co. —that is to say, the producers themselves
—marketed £042,127 worth ; three years ago
the total reached £1,810,539; for the past
six months it was £1,686,033. And that
doesn’t show the full extent of what this co.
has done for co-operation, because it has
promoted or assisted to promote subsidiaries,
one for making boxes for this co.’s mostly
co-operative butter-factory clients, and,
lately, the Co-op. Bacon Smoking Co. Also,
after repeated entreaties, the C.F.S. started
to handle fruit and vegetables; and in con-
nection with that business it is helping to
finance the Co.-op. Preserving Co. Nearly
as important, through handling such a large
proportion of the butter produced in the
State it has been in a position to insist upon
cash dealing. It is an almost amazing fact
that as at Sept. 30 its own sundry debtors
owed, only £205,073, or little more than a
fortnight’s sales, which enabled the co. to
pay its own clients so promptly that they
were owed for little more than one week’s
supplies; and the bad debts written off
totalled only £869, or less than Is. Old. p.c.
Of course this co. has to pay higher wages
like any other, and exes, have moved up
slightly; but they are still extraordinarily
low compared with turnover, and the pro-
ducer gets the benefit of that, too. For
many years this country had an idea that
its agriculturists of all sorts were in a
better position than those of almost any
other country. The fact was that early land-
owners who got tlieir areas for next to
nothing had made a good deal of money by
selling out at high prices; but Rom
production, apart from sheep, very tew
fortunes have been made, and as taxa-
tion increases there would be fewer
still if old conditions continued to
prevail. Ohlv by eliminating some of the awful
waste which has hitherto characterised the
rural industries, by reducing the parasites,
by putting more brains into the business and
by striving to create larger local markets
will the land offer reasonable attractions;
and because this co. is playing an important
part in securing some of these better con-
ditions The Bulletin once more gives it a
cheer, and suggests that those who have pro-
fited by its existence can give themselves and
their country a further lift by providing it
with more capital. In this matter the Maori-
landers are much more liberal than the farm-
ing co-operators of N. S. Wales have been.
* * * #
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dh blends. serves, serves.
1909.. £420 9 p.c.=£1162 £4,458
1910.. 1261 8 „ „ 1032 £229 4,68,
1911.. 1938 10 „ „ 1292 646 5,333
1912.. 1333 10 „ „ 1292 41 5,374
1913.. 1698 10 ~ ~ 1292 406 5,780
1914.. 2199 10 „ ~ 1292 907 6,687
1915.. 2067 10 ~ „ 1292 775 7,462
1916.. 2276 10 ~ „ 1292 984 8,416
1917.. 2942 10 ~ ~ 1292 1650 10,096
1918.. 4005 12.1 .. „ 1614 2391 12,487
1919.. 4380 15 ~ „ 1937 2443 14,930
During recent years money has been plenti-
ful—the paper variety unsupported by gold
altogether too plentiful. And with a feeling
of prosperity abroad some people hit up the
pace and had no compunction in asking
Uncle to finance their joy-rides and wild-
catting. So. though the management of the
Australian Mont de Pidtd ha,s had a cautious
eye on the barometer, it has had no diffi-
culty in finding work for as much money as
it used to—and at much more profitable
rates, judging by the growth of admitted
net profits. The past year’s profits were
equal to 34 p.c. of paid capital, almost
double the return shown five‘years ago. To
old shareholders, however, the 15 p.c.
dividend is not all it looks, for years ago
the co. was robbed of about £14,000 by
employees, and capital had to be written
down from £21,570 to £12,911, so on the
money they actually put into the business
the present distribution is really equivalent
to only 9 p.c. p.a. Still, with additions to
reserves considerably exceeding the amounts
passed out in dividends, prospects for share-
holders are very bright. The co. has now
reached the stage when reserves, after pro-
viding for current dividends, exceed paid
capital by a couple of thousands. During
the past year or two the directors have de-
veloped the idea of the co. owning its own
business premises, and in addition to the
city property, which was acquired for
£37,000 a year ago, premises have been pur-
chased in North Melbourne. With only
£21,841 of funds (shareholders’ capital and
reserves), and with £30.414 out in advances.
£-±0.92S invested in property, and other odd-
and ends of assets totalling £0524, the eo.
is itself necessarily a heavy borrower. At
October 31 the management was working on
£lB 835 of iixed deposits, and had other lia-
bilities amounting to £34.9Sst— acquired
mostly on account of the new properties.
* * * *
“Banker” puts a retired officer’s view :
The Bank Clerks' Union is now inevitable. The
clerks, particularly the younger ones, are joining
almost unanimously, while senior men, especially
branch managers and accountants, are holding "aloof
waiting- to see how Head Office views it. This means
that nearly all the positions in the Union are being
filled by juniors, while the senior and experienced
business-men, who will probably be forced to join
later on, will have to take a back seat and-be led
by the fiery youngsters. It is a pity, because the
management of the Union is going to be a delicate
business. The systems of the different banks and
the conditions under which their officers work differ
as widely as thieir rates of pay and scales of allow-
ances. Unless the Union is steered carefully there
will be trouble; wherefore the head offices should
encourage the senior men, as the thing can’t be
blocked, to take a hand in the management.
* » * »
“Banker”: The Federal note-issue has in-
creased by nearly £2,000,000 since the end
of November last. Another wad of paper to
push up the high cost of living! Until our
seven Governments learn that an inflated
currency is the chief cause of higher prices,
every attempt by controllers, commissions,
fixers of prices and of wages and rents, etc.,
is like threshing the air with a flail.
Squeeze the hot air out of the currency and
the water will run out of the high cost of
living.
* * * *
“G.A.” : “Cephas” (B. l/l/’2O) tells how
high freights disabled the marble-importing
industry and forced Australian masons to
find a concrete material to take the place of
marble for table and waslistand tops, etc.
And it is good to learn there is a greedy
market for another Australian product,
although it is imitation. But there is no
need of imitations. One of the world’s finest
deposits of marble —finest in quantity and
quality—exists at Bcnambra, in Gippslaui,
100 miles by crow express from Canberra.
Here lies "antico jellico. that beautiful
yellowish marble so prized by the ancient
Greek sculptors, the source of whose supply
is unknown. The Gippsland undeveloped
marble quarries contain stone of every shade
and grade, and given a railway or a con-
crete road they would be worked, to the
great gain of Australian architecture.
“Six and Eight”: “Gouger,” referring to
the invention of a method of preserving meat
by the late Peter Cochrane, of Bloomfield
River (Q.L fears that the secret of how it
was done lias been lost to the world. That
may be so as far as the plan adopted by
Cochrane is concerned; but a co. has been
formed in Grange (N.S.W.) for the purpose
of exploiting commercially a similar process,
the invention of a resident of that town.
As in the Cochrane method, the preserving
is done without salt, and lasts about two
months, and the meat after treatment tastes
just as it did before.


THE GREATEST WONDER IN AUSTRALIA TO-DAY is
t Little Wonder Engine
•‘■• 4 v£
m
am.
and the various Combinations built especially tor
it. Study these Combinations. Take any point
you like —price, quality, strength, utility, com-
pactness —nothing has been overlooked.
Take the “Little Giant” Pumping Outfit illus-
trated herewith. Utility and convenience of
operation are written in every line of its
construction. It is practically a household word
throughout Australia. From the Northern
Territory right around to AX/estern Australia it is
found on farms and stations working on wind-
mills, supplying the homestead, irrigating gardens
and pumping water for various purposes year
in and year out.
The Pump Jack is direct
driven through smooth-
running, machine-cut
gears. The gears are made
many times
stronger than
necessary,
ensures long life
and good, satisfac-
tory service. All
bearings are anti-
friction white
netal, and lubri-
cated through auto-
matic syphon oil-
wells.
f?
f
“The Little Wonder” 2-stand Shear-
ing Plant illustrated above is a standing
testimony to the merits and sterling quality
of the “Little Wonder” engine. The “Little
Wonder” shearing plant is known in every
country on the Globe where sheep are raised.
It consists o*f a “Little Wonder” engine, two
complete shearing machines, grinder and
everything complete, built into one compact
outfit ready for use. It has been found in-
valuable for shearing flocks up to 3000 and
for crutching on large stations.
The “Little Wonder” engine is four-cycle, which means the great-
est possible economy in fuel consumption. It has a large water-
tank, and is cooled on the thermo-syphon system. The carburetter
is the float-feed type, which ensures both economy ease of
operation. The magneto is the world-famous Liberty, which
never goes wrong. The Engine develops 2 8.H.P.,
and is a very popular size for pumping water, driving
a couple of shearing machines, operating a small saw-
bench or chaff cutter, and doing various work o c that
kind about the homestead.
JHKJH
The two illustrations herewith show
how the “Little Wonder” engine
can be used for cutting chaff or saw-
ing wood. Hundreds of clients
throughout Australia are using their
“Little Wonder” engines for oper-
ating Sim. mouth chaffcutters, 22in.
circular saws, etc.
JHK
Some of the “Little Wonder” Combinations:
Cooper “Little Giant” Pumping Outfit, complete with engine, pump-jack, rod guide, etc. £52/10/-
Cooper “Little Wonder” 2-stand Portable Shearing Plant, complete with everything_required ready for work £BO
Cooper Portable Sheep Spraying Plant, complete with engine, pump, tank, agitator and all fittings £9O
Cooper “Little Wonder” Saw Set, complete with engine, saw-bench, saw and belting, ready for work £56, 10/-
Coo Der “Little Wonder” Chaffcutting Set, complete with engine, chaffcutter and belting 3:54
Engine can also be supplied with Horizontal Force Pumps, Centrifugal Pumps, Orchard Spray Plants and other machines
Cooper
The “Little Wonder
requiring a 2-h.p. engine. - ......
If you have any work requiring a 2-b.h.p. engine, the Cooper “Little Wonder” is the engine for the job.
nearest Agent.
Everybody says so. Write us or our
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clark & Fauset. Ltd., Brisbane; N.Z. Loan &M. A. Co., Hughenden, Townsville and Rockhampton; Australian Implement
& H. F. Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth; Hart & Sons, Launceston; Buchanan, Davidson & Co., Hobart.


Ik Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST.. MELHOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
AVIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
JHK
Q »
Hotel
TARIFF
12'- pen Day
'6 Beds Break fash
C.R.KenP AsSwanstonSh
Melbourne f
King W
lw lw M WHISKY
4fr
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Widgee”: A few more words about the’
saltlu sh, the result of personal observation of this
highly-useful plant in cultivation. A triplex
seibaccala, or creeping saltbush, the kind most suit-
able for intense culture, grows in a thick, grey-
green mat. Seedsmen guarantee it to spread 2ft.
across, but it will do much better than this under
irrigation. Seed planted in autumn will provide
three summer cuttings before the end of the year.
It contains lots of protein, is a perennial, greatly
appreciated by all kinds’ of stock, and seems just
the succulent growth needed to offer a change from
the dry rations endured by most summering flocks
and herds in this country. llow is it that the
Australian farmer has not yet begun to make full
use of this admirable fodder ?
THE SPRINGS OF HOPE.
THE GENIUS: “ You’ve said ‘No’ to me now;
but do you think that there is any chance
that some day I may become a contri-
butor to your paper?”
THE EDITOR: “You may. I shan’t live for
ever.”
“Bilby”: Up this way (Thursday Island)
one hears many stories of how divers have narrowly
escaped death, and, having sifted them, here’s a
couple that carry the hall-mark of truth. A Jap
who was walking along the ocean floor suddenly
stepped down a chasm several feet deep. Dragged
to the surface he was found to be paralysed.
Another had his air-tube caught in a marine growth
and was on the verge of being suffocated when a
comrade came to his assistance. Perhaps the most
unusual accident of all happened to a Manila native
on the pearling grounds near the Aru Islands. He
was working below when his air-tube came in con-
tact with a piece of loose copper on the side of tiie
lugger, and the rubber was almost cut in halves.
The diver was hoisted on deck in an unconscious
condition, and died the following day. I’ve heard
yarns about divers being caught in the gaping jaws
of giant clams and gripped by the hideous octopus,
but the pub loafers who relate them to the stranger
at Thursday are, I fear, iflain liars.
“Ground Floor": Native bears have multi-
plied so rapidly under the protection given them in
the Vic. National Park at Wilson’s Promontory that
they have, by eating the leaves, reduced 2000 auvs
of blue-gums to dead timber. The trunks made a
struggle for existence by throwing out shoots, but
the bears mopped those up too. Recognising that
there was not enough of the pet food to go round a
large number began a migratory movement, and
several hundred perished.
“Moobitta”: Apropos weird Backblock
names. West of Lake Eyre, as we’ve heard already,
there’s “Cadibarrawirricanna.” On the east side
there is more euphony in “Kannamanawalkaninna”
or “Manuwalkaninnie.” But 1 always pinned my
faith on “Tidnacoortnarynyaninna,” or Blazes Well,
which is in the same district. I have reason to
remember the spot. Years back some rotter pinched
the rope off the windlass. We improvised a rope
of girths, surcingles, pack straps, bridle-reins and
saddle-straps, and with a billycan it took us six
hours to water three horses and use up all the
profanity fitting the occasion. Doolkaninna was
also dry. The next waterhole we struck had fully
100 head of stock dying and dead in it. That was
at Nantowarpinna. We thought it —well, not quite
nectar.
“Spcedo” : Unique amongst the hatters of
Australia was “the hermit of Carrum” (Vic.), who
died a year ago. He located himsel'f in a quiet
little patch amongst the ti-tree near the beach, well
away from the madding crowd of week-enders. He
was credited with being a sea captain run to seed.
Ilis humpy was made of bark, canvas and sundries.
It had but one room, and was barely high enough
to stand in. An old busted boat was the sleeping
quarters. The ancient affected a long patriarchal
white beard, and generally wore a shroud over his
other clothes. Many curious ideas possessed him.
He had a seat for every day in the week. The
Sunday seat was in the fork of a tree, I remember.
Cleanliness was a strong point with him. His only
occupations were reading the Bible, feeding the
birds (which knew him so well that they would feed
from his hands), and collecting the oIJ-f.ge pension.
He loathed charity.
* * * *
“G.S.” : Wouldn’t like to say who was the
best Australian horseman in Palestine. It might
have been Col. Fuller, who took a neat seat and was
a picture mounted. If asked about best rifle-shots I
would unhesitatingly put them this way: Sam Ccok
(Q.) Ist; Reg Graham (Kiama, N.S.W.), 2nd;
Sing (Young, N.S.W.), 3rd. Sing is a half-Chinese,
and was said to be responsible for 260 Jacko scalps
at Gallipoli. It was he who took prisoner the
Turkish woman sniper. These three men were all
crack kangaroo shooters and all enlisted with the
oth Light Horse.
“Cape Pork” : What’s the one-man record
for “cutting out” among hornies ? A mob of 1000
Cape York cattle were travelling south.
Some of them had never been handled since
branding. Four hundred fats were wanted.
A telegram giving the owner’s instructions
was received by the drover
two miles from the rail-
head at 4 p.m. and the
trail! and cattle-trucks
were to start at 7 o’clock
next morning for Cairns.
Cutting out was finished
in two hours by one horse,
a splendid upstanding
black blood animal, with
two hands taking over
from the performer, and
myself taking over and
keeping the mob apart at
a distance of - a few
hundred yards. The fats
were not cut out singly,
but in ones, twos, or
threes, as chanced, and
were yarded that night by
7 o’clock. I didn’t men-
tion the rider because the
horse did the job. inci-
dentally, the prad had
never smelt corn in his natural.
* * * *
“Cape Pork”: The best and cheapest
drought fodder for cattle that I know is the Portu-
guese elm, commonly called the berry-tree. It
lias a greenish-grey bark, with rich green foliage,
and I put it forward as Australia’s best drought
stand-by, although it’s not a native. Cattle fatten
quickly on it, and every beast I have fed it to pre-
fers it to lucerne or oaten chaff. It grows luxu-
riantly in almost any soil, but prefers to live along
the creeks.
* * * *
“Trebla”: “Dudlyngil” lately talked
through his lid when he said that all rifle tubes are
smaller at the muzzle than at the breech. As a
matter of fact, the Lee-Enfield (short pattern), now
so largely in use, is 303-thousandths at the breech
end of bore and 305 at the muzzle, and is thus a bell-
mouth to the extent of two-thousandths of an inch.
Also, any shotgun to make a decent “pattern” must
be more or less choke-bore. I’ve seen ’em tested,
and the choke barrel beat the cylinder to a frazzle —
both barrels by the same maker, too. So, on prin-
ciple, to force an obstruction out by the muzzle-
end of a shotgun is wrong. While I’m at it, to clean
a foul barrel of any gun (ordinary fouling) cork
up one end, fill with vinegar and leave for an hour.
Then use pullthrough and there you are!
THE STRENUOUS LIFE.
OLD LADY : “ But, my good man, don’t you get tired of doing nothing?”
CADGING CLARENCE: “ Orful, mum. I gets so tired I can’t do nothin’ else.”
“Pick” : On her own, when attacked, the
domestic turkey is the easiest prey. She buries her
head in a handy bramble, or tussock, and submits
to being chewed by a fox or torn wickedly by an
eagle without, any effort to escape or to defend her-
self. But abroad with the family Mrs. Gobbler is
a different proposition. 1 once saw a sft. brown
snake obtrude himself into the midst of a brood of
young turks, and then I was shown how maternal
devotion can change a timid and docile nature into
fury. While the chickens scurried wildly for
cover the mother headed off the enemy, sidling
towards him with a rigidly downstretched wing and
body quivering with fearless determination. The
snake, with evilly flattened head and whipping
tongue, drew up into springing attitude, but side-
stepping his onslaught the hen knocked him side-
ways with a wing-blow, and dealt him another as
he swirled over with a vicious back spring. For a
few moments there was a whirlwind of flapping
wings and darting coils, and then the turkey
trotted away, clucking for her brood, while the
enemy’s slow-squirming length remained. Examina-
tion proved that ma had crushed the back of his
head, and had sustained no damage herself.
* * * *
“Bright”: “Nor’-West” ( B. IS/J2/’l9)
says the little grey-speckled ground-tit of. the ridges
of the N. S. Wales tablelands is the only bird he
knows which lays an egg approaching the color of
red. Allow me to introduce him to the little field
lark, found in companies of five or six on
grassy ground in the north and west of Australia.
Plumage, olive brown, the feathers with darker
centres ; the under-surface pale yellow, each feather
with a dark stripe down the centre, except the middle
of the abdomen, which is white without stripes. He
is about 41 inches long, and very tame. Th 1
nest is domed, with an exceedingly small entrance
near the ground, in a depression of which, and over-
hung with withered grass, it is usually placed.'
Being constructed of dried grasses, and being so
much in keeping with its general surroundings, it'
is very hard to find. This little chap comes from a
bright chocolate-red egg. Three or four make a
setting.
* * * *
“I Say”: Can any Abo. verify this? I
believed it under protest. We were talking of high
tank-stands, when somebody blew off a yarn about one
he had seen erected many years ago up Echuca way.
It belonged to a millowner who wanted a good
water pressure. Sailors did most of the top work,
the tank being hauled up in pieces and riveted
aloft. When finished it stood 58 feet above the
ground. It seemed to me a bit high for a wooden
stand —-very nearly on a par with the price of
spuds.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : “Baigona” mentioned in a re-
cent Bulletin by “S. S. Severn,” is something more
than magic. It is a “religion” evolved by a people
who, in a primitive state, had no religious ideas
whatever. It arose among the natives of the
Northern Division of Papua about 10 years ago, and
the late Copeland King, who knew more of the
Binandele people than any other white man, gave me
an account of it. About 1909 a village constable
on the Ope River, on which the northern headquarters
of the Anglican Mission were situated, had a revela-
tion. According to him, Jesus Christ had arrived
by the Merrie England one evening and, carrying
him to the top of Mitre Rock, not far from the Ope
mouth, had imparted the mysteries of the new re-
ligion to him, and appdinted him evangelist-in-chief.
Anyone knowing the power and the glory which
the Merrie England represented to the native in old-
time Papua will see nothing strange in this part of
the v.c.’s yarn. The “religion” as expounded by him
was a tangled mass of mission-school teachings, the
nebulous Spook-beliefs already common to the native ,
and spells, incantations and “sendings” such as formed
the stock-in-trade of the regular purveyors of black
magic. These frauds welcomed the new idea, and
Within a few months missionary and Government
official alike began to sit up af.d i.-.i c notice. As
always in Papua, the scoundrel with accredited
occult power used it for extortion, murder and other
pleasantries. From the mission’s point of view
Baigona wiped out much of its work of 10 years,
and backsliders were as the sands.
* * * *
“Melos’’: Have been introduced to two
night-prowling crawlers, the broad-headed and the
brown tree-snakes. The former is comparatively
small, black above, with yellowish cross-bands; the
latter extends some 7ft., is reddish-brown on top,
PROOFS WANTED.
TOUGH MICK (to Rev. Bathbrikk, who has
ventured to reprove him) : “You re-
spectable! How th’ Hell do yer know
yer respectable? You've never been
acquitted in yer life! Hi've 'ad me
character cleared in ’undreds uv courts!”
with dark oblique marks. Both are alleged to be
harmless to man, but it is well to run no risks with
the broad-headed bloque. I have seen him paralyse
a dog in short time. This species is a terrestrial
prowler; the other keeps to trees on the off chance
of dining on a bird or dreaming lizard.
(Continued on page 26.)
THE MORNING LESSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sittin" on the house-steps,
Loanin’ to the porch,
Watchin' Day resplendent
Pushi n’ up his torch,
Notin’ how the sunlight
Steals across the land,
Like the soothin’ lingers
Of a healer’s hand,
Seems to me I’m gittin’
Somethin’ Life can give,
Sittin’ still an’ watchin,
Learnin’ how to live ;
Feelin’ big an’ kind-like,
Learnin’ love an’ trust
From the smallest sparrow
Peckin’ at a crust.
When a bloke is list’nin’,
Hearin’ everywhere
Nature’s sweetest voices
Mountin’ through the air
In a song of gladness—
Bird, an’ wind, an’ tree,
Flower, an’ insect joinin’
In the melody—
lie is surely learnin’
That there’s somethin’
more
In the way of livin’
Than he knew before—
Somethin’ more than fret-
tin’.
Somethin’ more than war,
Lust, an’ hate, an’ liurtin’;
Always somethin’ more:
Down there in the city,
Shapin’ steel an’ stone,
Toil my helpless brothers,
Crowdin’, but alone ;
Askin’ of each other
Less than each can give,
Missin’, always missin’,
Learnin’ how to live.
Sittin’ on the house-steps
Leanin’ to the porch,
Watchin’ Day resplendent
Pushin’ up his torch,
Seems to me I’m gittin’
Somethin’ Life can give,
Sittin’ still an’ watchin’,
Learnin’ how to live.
N.s.w.
TAL OR DELL.


7a
□
*>,
i**
****»»««««■»■»•*'*
..r
u;
Electric Power to
operate these
HJK
Make the New Year Bright with
Western Electric Power & Light
WESTERN ELECTRIC POWER AND LIGHT will make your home and farm the
brightest spot around.
The thousands of users of Western Electric Power and Light Outfits make their
country homes just like the best plac'- in a city—mother and the girls use an
electric washing-machine, electric iron, vacuum cleaner, sewing machine, toaster, or fan, just
as often as father uses the utility motor.
You can do all this with Western Electric Power and Light because the battery is big enough
—more than twice the capacity of that in any other electric-light plant. A few extra lights
or a sewing-machine going for an hour or two won’t make*any difference if your plant is
Western Electric —there’s plenty of current all the time.
And all of this comfort costs practically nothing because Western Electric Power and Light
also drives the farm machinery—does labor-saving work and soon pays for the whole cost of
the plant. Get this Outfit because it’s big and powerful—once you have the benefit of its
endless resources you’ll wonder how you ever did without it for so long.
Write for 20-page Book, Post Free, to
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (Australia) LTD.,
192 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 262 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
AGENTS:—T. Tonlts, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane; Newton McLaren, Leigh Street, Adelaide;
Medhurst Electric Co., 11 Argyle Street, Hobart; A. I>. Biiey & Co., Lainbton Quay,
Wellington, N.Z.; also at Christchureli, Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z.
Western Electric
qjjtlcL
Engine Power 10
drive these
1
m
if**
mm.
PALING’S PLAYER PIANOS
have brought happiness to thousands of homes.
ESTABLISHED 1853
Please write for Art Catalogue
and particulars of Easy Terms.
WHY NOT YOURS?
Do you realise the amount of genuine pleasure
you are missing by not having a PLAYER PIANO?
It, is the best musical instrument one can possibly
buy. Probably simply because you have the old-
fashioned idea that a PLAYER PIANO is a
mechanical instrument—nothing could be further
from the fact. Call in and let us demonstrate t o
you how human-like they really are.
O
338 Georg'e Street,
and at SYDNEY.
Brishan
Toowoomba
Newcastle.
Lismore.


Tty AIN SUE
WHISKY
As Supplied to
Royal Navy.
Dewhurst & Ha.Hora.ii Ltd**
Agents,
8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
M
55
/
i
i
The Brand and the
Texture, both protect you.
fp
44
Underwear
Is British through and through—the
Brand protects you against inferior
German-made goods
New ••Olympic** Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton —bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers :
Jason Underwear Co*, Leicester, Eng.
AU.66
NO MORE COUGHS AND SORE
THROATS.
AN EASY WAY TO USE PINE TAR.
Cold, damp weather invariably means
coughs, colds and sore throats for thousands
of children. Nearly all of this pain, suffer-
ing, inconvenience and attendant danger can
be overcome or prevented by giving to the
little ones several times a day half a tea-
spoonful to a teaspoonful of a pleasant sooth-
ing cough syrup made by dissolving half a
pound of sugar in half a pint of hot water,
and then adding 2ozs. of bitrate of tar, which
can be obtained from the _ chemist. Stir
thoroughly, pour into a pint bottle, and
when cool it is ready for use. In this man-
ner the well-known remedial and soothing
properties of bitrate of tar are made use
of in such a way that the children like it,
and ask for more. Grown-up people also
will find that in spite of its cheapness and
pleasant taste this cough syrup made from
bitrate of tar is one of the best things they
have ever used, because it brings the healing
properties of pine tar directly into contact
wp ’ inflamed membranes of the throat.
—Advt.
“Zabo”: Turned out one of the horses
with a bell attached to his neck with a strong two-
inch strap. Found him a few days afterwards
dead, with the heel of a hind shoe caught in the
bell-strap. The nag had evidently been scratch-
ing his neck when the projecting point of the shoe
clipped into the buckle. The poor brute’s suffer-
ing must have been dreadful; the skin was all rubbed
from his off-side, and six off-side ribs were torn
away from the backbone. After this experience
next time I put a bell on a horse it will be with
a strap that will break with an ordinary strain.
My luck was dead out that week. 1 found two
merino rams dead in the same paddock as the
horse, with their horns locked together. They had
been fighting, and through the horns locking had
starved to death.
HIS HAY-DRIVEN MOTOR.
FARMER'S FRIEND: “ That's a handsome car
you have. Knocks the old horse out,
doesn't it?”
FARMER HIMSELF: “Lord, I hope not! I
depend on hay to keep my car going.”
“Eddyson” : I had taken the short cut to
the Hungry Hills, where our coal show was, on the
say-so of an elderly inhabitant of Morwell, and had
discovered that the nearest way through is the
longest way round. There was the range looming
in front of me, but I was hopelessly fogged as to
the whereabouts of the entrance thereto that led to
our camp—a wide gorge carrying a small creek run-
ning out on to the level country. I was no bush-
man, and the uncanny sensation of being lost in
the wilds wa's upon me, when I butted into con-
vincing ‘.evidence of the proximity of man in the
shape of a square of sawn board nailed to a tree,
and bearing the inscription: “All Meals Is. Pianos
Tuned.” Looking carefully about me T could detect
no other sign of civilisation; but presently my ear
caught the faint strain of a musical instrument com-
ing, it seemed, from a clump of young growth in
a depression to my left. I followed the “scent
eagerly, and breaking through the sapling clump
came upon a small paling hut, with the accumula-
tions of years on its bark roof, and the skeletons of
a dead orchard forming a background. By the
door of the hut a long-haired, long-whiskered, grey
Rip Van Winkle of a man was seated on a stump
stool, playing a very wheezy accordion. My pre-
. sence was a matter of small concern to the musician.
“Is that your notice over there, ‘All Meals Is.’?’ I
asked. He nodded his head, and rasped out a sec-
tion of “My Grandfather’s Clock.” “Can get
a meal here?” said I. He shook his head. “That
was when the rush was on at Martha s Flat, a
matter of 10 years ago,” said he. Just beyond the
dead orchard flowed a creek that gave me all the
directions I wanted. I bade the veteran instru-
mentalist “Good day,” and moved off. When 1
had gone about 50 yards I heard a call, and the
CONDEMNED.
COW COCKY : “Quick, ’ ide it! 'Ere comes
the stock inspector.”
musician came hobbling after me. .“Hi, mister,”
he called. I paused. “But I can tune your piano!”
he said.
“Gagi” : All that “Damper” (B. l/l/’2O
has to do to stop his nag leaping from the shafts
whilst Jbeing unharnessed is to put a feed-box at his
nose. He’ll come out of his trappings then as
serenely as The Girl Who Took the Wrong Turning.
“Mulga”: In dressing a porcupine see
that the four small balls like marbles are removed
from the throat. If you do this the flesh will not
have an ant flavor. One way of cooking echidna is
to enclose it in clay and bake in hot
ashes. When done porky’s overcoat can
be easily taken off from the flesh, and
the entrails will come out as a small hard
ball. Another way to prepare the meal
is to first singe the quills off over a fire,
clean the body well in boiling water,
stuff with seasoning and roast in camp-
oven. It will then compare well with any
dish on the menu.
“Te Whare” : According to Lieut. Collins
it was Bass who first discovered the wombat, called
by the abos. of Port Jackson “wombac.” On
landing on Cape Barren Island a short thick-legged
animal “about the size of a turnspit dog” attracted
Bass's attention. He caught the creature and turned
it over on its back. Collins says that the wombat
“whizzed with all his might, struggled and scratched
vigorously, and, with his grass-cutting teeth, snapped
a piece out of the elbow of Mr. Bass's jacket.
However, the fine old surgeon succeeded in getting
his prize back to the boat. Governor Hunter de-
scribed the flesh of the wombat as “delicate meat.”
The first lyre-bird known to Sydney was got at the
foot of the Blue Mountains about 1798. The fowl
was set down as a “variety of the bird of paradise.”
“Widgee”: A bushwhacker tells me that
a brew of wild hops—a quart of dried leaves to
a quart of water —taken in limited quantities every
few hours, is a cure for indigestion. But bush-
whackers have told me so many tarradiddles that I
hesitate to try this remedy on anybody so long as
there is any bi-carbonate of soda handy. Talking
of the latter, how many farmers keep a box of it
on hand? Precious few, from my knowledge of
them. The lucerne-grower who is careless enough
to let his cows bloat themselves —and his name
is legion-—can save himself a lot of money by
administering a dose at the moment he observes his
animals in distress, while for green-feed scours in
sheep and other four-footed stock there is nothing
better. Yet mam- farmers are quite satisfied to buy
the same article as a stock remedy with a fancy
name and price.
“I*. Juggler” : Talk of severe head wounds
reminds me of old Jack G’ollis, of Pleystowe sugar
mill, Maekay (().). He had been a soldier in his
far-off youth, and had been badly wounded in some
frontier scrap in India.
The bullet entered just
above the bridge of his
nose and came out through
the roof of his mouth,
which it completely shat-
tered. The surgeons en-
deavored to rectify the
damage, fitting in a silver
plate, but during his ups
and downs Jack had lost
it or given it to the
daughter of a clergyman as
a keepsake or something,
and, as his lacking palate
rendered his speech unin-
telligible, he had made up
the deficiency by a cork
with a rag wrapped round
it. The makeshift occa-
sionally dropped out. At
Pleystowe Jack was the
cook, and one day was un-
able to tell us the bill of
fare, from which we
gathered that the plug-
had gone astray once more.
As the hungry men came
from the window where
Jack was dispensing the
stew the bottom of the
pot began to glimmer
through the gravy. Sud-
denly the poisoner gave a
grunt of relief, reached
forward and picked something out of the pot. Then
he burst into full-throated speech. The missing
palate was found!
# * » »
“Dinkum”: In the Riverina about 20
years ago I came across the remains of a jackass and
black snake locked together. Jacky had evidently
made a dart at the snake and missed; then the
latter must have coiled himself around the bird
and tried to swallow it. In the operation Jack’s
beak pierced the swallower's gullet and came out
through the skin. That must have been a classic go.
“Gecko”: “Kaylee” got bushed when he
wrote (B. l/l/’2O) that Ellis S. Joseph, Sydney’s
animal dealer, put up a record by holding a platypus
in healthy captivity for five months. It was nine
months, or six months longer than the next best I
know of—T managed that myself.
“The Pariah”: “Caloola” asks (B.
1 8/32/’l9) if there is a cure for the bite of the red-
back spider. Having been bitten twice I ask if a
cure is necessary. The first time was in the Otway
Ranges. As soon as the ugly thing nipped me all
the tales I had heard as a kid came into my mind,
and I asked the other fellows if the
bite was dangerous. They assured
me I would be dead in -24 hours at
latest. I treated the incident as they
did and forgot all about it till six
hours afterwards when I was attacked
by nausea, which soon passed off.
The second bite was acquired in
Gippdand, and was treated by those
with me as a most serious matter. I
rubbed the bite with a bruised brack-
en root to satisfy them, and going
to bed soon after fell asleep, only
to be wakened three times in the
night by inquiries whether I was
dead. The third time they thought I'
was delirious. In each case a hard
lump about the. size of a sixpence 1
appeared round the .puncture. Bush-
men are divided in their opinion as
to the venomous nature of the bite,
but scientists are positive the red-
back cannot kill a man, though they
admit it may cause a certain amount
of discomfort. As for “Cal’s” dead
rouseabout, I refuse to accept him as
evidence unless 1 get the coroner’s'
verdict backed by the certificate of
an analyst that there, was venom in
the blood. I can present him with
three dead men who died of imagin-
ary snakebite and produce the
authority of medicoes and analysts.
Binghi in fear of the pointed finger
is not more pitiable than many a
white bitten by a snake. I know.
Knocking about Asia I have more
than once kissed myself good-night,
but I was never in such a fearful state as in the
four hours after being kissed on the, knee l > a
black snake.
“Riverina”: Binghi’s “musical” instru-
ments were remarkable for ne'ther melody nor
variety. He never whittled a flute from the ‘-bin-
bone of a. defunct enemy, nor drew sweet sounds
from a ’roo’s sinews. The accompaniments to his
songs were played on a pair of boomerangs beaten
together or on a skin-rug tightly rolled, skin side
outwards, vigorously thumped by the fist of a gin.
Yet the blacks liked music and many became pro-
ficient on the accordion, concertina and mouth-
organ. In singing Binghi found real pleasure.
Occasionally the natives sang ballads of their own
composition in English—or thereabouts. These were
primitive ditties. Frequently they contained only
one line, repeated over and over by a singer till
the others took it up and so gave it a place in tha
tribe's repertoire. Any event furnished the iheme.
A blackfellow out mustering discovered an old ewe
bogged in a lagoon. The blowflies had found her
first. That night this version kept the debil-debils
away from the camp:—
Oh, the poor old ewe with the maggoty eye!
Oh, the poor old ewe with the maggoty eye!
The killing of a sheep by a hungry swagman was
'commemorated thus: —
That pfeller Charlie tell-it boss
Flurry trab-ler Idll-it sheep!
The use of swearwords was common in the com-
positions. A station-hand one evening piaved an
accordion to a circle of admiring natives. Later
he heard this song drifting along from the mia-mias
in the bend :
Puli away, my boy, pull away
At your big ’cordent, my boy.
Good morning! Come an’ ’ave a nobbier.
Here and there a pleasant voice was heard,
especially amongst the young gins. The males had
one peculiarity in giving these fragments. They
invariably dropped the last word and substituted
“tcha-a-ah! tcha-a-ah!” accompanying the noise
with a motion of the hands as if pushing some-
thing away contemptuously. The “tcha-a-ah"
sounded like an imitation of the swish made by the
bands of gum-leaves worn in eorroborees. The
hands action is common also in eorroborees. Occa-
sionally one heard abo. songs with a hint of form
and rhyme. The best I can remember was com-
posed in the year of a big flood. The rain (murti-
murti) amounted to a deluge, and the bullock-
waggon (Binghi called it wheelbarrow) carrying
the Government’s yearly gift of blankets became
hopelessly bogged in a swamp off the Murray River.
While Binghi waited impatiently for his covering
an angry poet burst into mixed profanity and
verse, and this vigorous poem was given to the
world
Murti-murti tumble down.
Wheelbarrow broke-it.
D—n and b Gub’ment —
No gib-it blanket!
“R.A.Y.”: I have proved that the jaca-
randa is injurious to health if its petals fall into
tanks or guttering that leads to tanks. They poison
the water to a greater degree than any other vegeta-
tion growing in these parts. It’s remarkable, by
the way, how some persons’ sense of taste is dulled
in regard to water, though keen enough in regard to
other liquids.
“Gelt”: It is interesting to note the vari-
ous sources from which the South Sea Islanders
derive their words for a white man. The New
Britain (Gazelle dialect) word is “paran,” which
means a large boat; but in Buka (late German
Solomons) the. derivation is more complicated. The
distant view of the approaching strange vessel which
FURTHER PROOF OF IT.
ARTIST: “From the (lay that picture icas
started to the day it teas finished was
exactly ‘five years.”
RETIRED CONTRACTOR: “Dear, dear; that's
day-work for you again. I've always
been against it.”
bore the first white strangers seemed to the Bukas
like an island bearing down upon them, and the
cry arose: “A tol a lana mayen” (an island is
coming here). From this cry originated their pre-
sent word “Tolala,” a white man.
THE HOME-COMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grass is green on the hills again,
It came at the call of the Autumn rain;
And up and down
Through the country brown
The jubilant stockwhips crack,
As over the range
From the places strange
The cattle come hurrying back.
The bails are clean, and the milking-stools
As white as the petals that star the pools.
Through the tall red gums
The thunder drums
Beat time to the roll of the rain,
When every creek
From the far-off peak
Brought life to the land again.
They come, they come by the old red Way,
O God, for the joy of this sunlit day !
Be done with tears
For a month of years !
The girls with a young, young laugh
Weave, skein on skein,
A daisy chain
For Poly’s little white calf.
Crack high the whips. They have reached
the rails.
Was ever such thronging- of horns and tails V
Look, Bess ar.d Rose!
There Snowflake goes!
But. Poly’s calf we may seek in vain....
What shall be said
Of the young white dead
Who never came home again?
N.S.W.
ZOKA CROSS.
“Bill Bowyang” : Here’s Nippon’s method
of catching the octopus alive in the waters within
the Barrier Reef. At the end of a long pole is
hung a line baited with a piece of red rag, and
this, dangled in front of the rocky hiding-places of
the octopus, is sufficient to tempt him from his
residence. In his efforts to get near the bait the
repulsive-looking creature is enticed towards the
boat, in which the .Tap awaits him with a harpoon,
and at the right moment the octopus is impaled.
On some of the islands in Torres Strait Binghi con-
siders octopus steak a delicacy, and catches the
creature with the help of a torch carried at the
head of a canoe. The light attracts the octopus in
the same way as the red rag. Should there be a
shortage of red rag a large supply can always be
procured from any union office at Darwin or Towns-
ville.


u
a
%
a
a
a
o
o
0
CIGARETTES
“An inspiration in Cig'arette Flavor,
Frag'rance and Bouquet.”
gJiubJ
m
C/Q
\3.
&
t\ bsolcf
e/
V/o.
J’Oi
<>
s®s
-v.
f 7 /*
ss
Gmßtfifc
w
&cZ«o
-V
o
#
®NUMBER™
o
VO
THE RED PACKET


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off ”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
'JJMMXB*
seljbl a j m iifnnm»iuuuiuimmniuu.miftntimntfmninimMnra;MMg«»Mi*-"»-^"
cnanfai * r?i\
OMt'l /
>K.
SNOII33JJV
i__>o
dnoaa
J>
50103
SHOfIOD
&
Branch Office:
2 BoaJ Street,
SYDNEY.
The Expansion of Europe
A very notable book is The Expansion of
Europe, by W. C. Abbott, Professor of His-
tory at Yale University. The defect in it
is that it stops too soon. That is to say, it
begins where Europe commenced to
.spread into the other continents in real
earnest (1415), but it stops at 1759 before
the division of Africa was well under way.
In early historical days (pre-historical
days are omitted for lack of space) Africa
fired its little gun in the battle for possession
of the world —if Egypt and Carthage, with
their Asiatic traditions, and cut off by the
desert from the thick-lipped, flat-nosed,
woolly-headed folks, could be called real
Africa. Then Asia had a long, long innings.
The Tartar came to Europe, likewise the
llun, the Mapvar, the Turk and the Saracen.
It is still said that the Ringstrasse in Vienna
is the dividing line between Asia and Europe.
The Arab might have owned the earth, only
he adventured too widely in one stupendous
act, and the Mother Country required ten
times the population to supply adequate rein-
forcements. He is to be found far south and
far west in Africa, also far east in Asia. He
even publishes newspapers in India, lie is
everywhere a sort of brown aristocrat. He
holds his own country, or the bulk of it.
against all comers, and is the backbone of
the Turkish Empire, and there are Arab
peers in the nobility of the British Empire.
But the effort to take the world with a cor-
poral’s guard of men was too much. Europe
had been out of the foreign empire-building
business since the end of the Creek and
Roman ventures, which were not so very
extensive outside Europe at best; in fact,
when Rome collapsed and a great part of
the empire divided into States the size of
hostile dinner-plates, Europe ceased even to
defend itself with much success. _ But when
its turn came again it took America, Air.cn,
Australia and a good part of Asia, and did
things in style. That was yesterday, in a
manner of speaking. What will happen to-
morrow is another matter. The European
■dominance of the world is an experiment or
a mushroom or the beginning of an epoch
■or something.
And two or three little States —not that
gigantic blot on the map called the German
Empire, which was out of the business—did
practically all the pioneering. Portugal, with
a million and a half peoole, spread itself
from the Amazon to India, and from India
to Australia. It failed, as the Arabs did,
for lack of reinforcements. Besides, it sent
so many stupendous fighters, explorers, navi-
gators and adventurers of all sorts abroad
that it began to fill up with nigger labor at
home, and the Portuguese swiftly became a
sort of mulatto, and that spoiled the quality
of the reinforcements. Spain, with more
resources, but still hopelessly insufficient
ones, at home, did better. France and Eng-
land did pioneering of their own in a sort
of way in Canada and New England. Biff
England’s pioneering was of the humblest
sort, little more than a trudging in the foot-
steps of the great men ahead. JJ ranee did
better. Holland was a gleaner and a fol-
lower and a picker-up of other men s goods
rather than a finder. Russia pioneered
Siberia, Alaska and down t ie Canadian west
coast till it met the Spaniards coming north,
and should really rank third after Spam and
Portugal. It Columbused that part ot the
world with no footsteps to guide it. and
the fact that others had struck America on
the other s.de was nothing to Russia’s dis-
credit. It didn t know the p.ace was
America.
The success of the expanders of Europe
can be estimated to some extent by a curious
sort of language test. Outside Europe,
Irench, Dutch and Russian are not. the recog-
nised languages in any capital of an inde-
pendent State. Portuguese is the speech m
Rio Janeiro. English has two capital cities
to its credit —Washington and Monrovia.
Spain, that wonderful Mother of Nations,
supplies the official speech of 1 1 capitals ot
republics, including among them the greatest
city south of the line. It is hardly possible
that there will be anything l.ke it again in
history. The story of the non-maritime
Spaniards- —soldiers whose ambition drove
them to sea —is a fascinating part of The
Expansion of Europe . They established an
elaborate and uniform and fairly successful
form of government from Patagonia to
Canada, while most of their rivals went
haphazard. Everywhere their problem was
in a way that of the English in India, with
tlie difference that their territory spread right
through the tropics and included the equator,
while India is mostly in the temperate zone.
They were a small white people among
colored multitudes —and the white people
took root and grew, while the English in
India consist of an alien garrison and a
few bagmen birds-of-passage to tins d>y.
Now the people Spain planted are trying the
experiment—have been doing it for a cen-
tury —of running independent, self-reliant
white Governments amid the colored multi-
tudes, a thing that no one imagines the
English doing in India if the support of the
Mother Country was cut of. And when
one looks at the blood-stained welter of
European war's and revolutions which fill
W. C. Abbott’s book by hundreds, if not
thousands, the stability, peacefulness and
honesty of the South American republics is
marvellous. Central America is less for-
tunate, but it is a mere speck in point of
size, and Mexico has had little luck. The
southern U.S. slaveholders began intriguing
there fully TO years ago to steal territory
for the extension of their Peculiar Institu-
tion, and it has been the stamping ground
for TJ. S. railway and gold-mining and silver-
mining and oil-boring concession-hunters
almost ever since the republic was born. In
fact, Mexico was never intended to have
much luck.
The Spanish colonial system lasted and
worked fairly well for 302 years, while the
British system in New England came to
grief in about half that time. After that
Britain began to realise, especially with the
example of Ireland before it. that it couldn’t
govern white men in bulk save by not gov-
erning them at all and letting them rule
themselves. The audiencia system was wear-
ing rather thin both in Spanish and Portu-
guese America towards the end. But simul-
taneously two of the greatest statesmen in
Europe—D’Aranda in Spain and Pombal in
Portugal—got to work repairing the old
apparatus, and it might have been good for
another run if the French hadn’t suddenly
occupied the two mother countries and cut
the roots of empire.
There are nearly 1000 pages in the book,
and they cover almost everything from the
fall of Aurungzebe’s empire at Delhi to the
way Milton of “Paradise Lost” wore his
collar. (G. Bell and Sons, Ltd., London.)
A Satchel of Books
Love, London and Lynette, by W. E.
Fuller (Alex. McCubbin and Co., Mel-
bourne), is a Digger’s desultory chronicle
that doesn’t say much to justify the title.
Lynette appears to be another warrior’s wife,
but she is a vague, indeterminate little
person who trips infrequently into the narra-
tive on a couple of well-filled stockings with-
out any apology for her intrusion. A further
selection of legs flickers furtively in the
background, but many of the adventures, are
sickbed o’er with beer, and much of the
humor withers on the pin-point of a pun.
“Carlton,” the tall, spare conjurer who
was in Australia 10 years ago, has written
Twenty Years of Spoof and Bluff (Herbert
Jenkins, London). There is an engaging
candor about it. Like Pepys, Casanova
and a few others, “Carlton” sets down what
many another would have hidden. He begins
with the episode which led him to take to
“busking,” and so on to fame and fortune;
he was a country telegraph-boy temporarily
acting as postman, and he lost his job
through collecting the regular man’s Christ-
mas-boxes. At a later stage he took on
yokels in a boxing-booth. “All the boxing-
gloves looked alike; but that was all. My
pair, weighing perhaps 14 ounces, were of
solid leather. The pair lent my opponent
were padded with horsehair and as soft as
a couple of sofa cushions.” An interesting
chapter deals with the Hidden Treasure acts
which were the rage when “Carlton” was in
Australia. There was nothing telepathic
about them: they were pure fake. The
volume is got up as sumptuously as a Boche
General’s War Book. It will be sure to
interest vaudeville patrons; and it should
be worth many times its weight in paper-
money to confidence-men.
1918, by Phyllis Lewis (Specialty Press,
Melbourne). This is a little book of verse
dedicated to Owen Gower Lewis and inspired
by the meiiiory of a dead soldier brother. It
is good, quiet verse that never soars very
high and never falls down. The 10 little
pages of song reflect what is in very many
hearts to-day, and the booklet should have a
wide welcome.
The Misdoings of Micky and Mac, by
Isabel M. Peacock (Ward, Lock). A very
charming little book about two small and
particularly energetic boys. Their pranks
follow in rapid succession through the pages.
Aunt Agatha and the grocer’s boy are admir-
able character studies of their kind. A boo!;
for youngsters which everybody with a sense
of humor can enjoy.
Dope Darling, by Lela Burke (T. Werner
Laurie, London). Claire takes cocaine and
is married to a doctor called Roy, who seeks
to save her. Beatrice, also a doctor, is in
love with Roy, who, after'his marriage, is
doped by his dopey wife. Then the war
comes and Claire dies and Beatrice reaps
the reward of virtue by getting Dr. Roy,
D. 5.0., second-hand. The book is mere
futility.
Spade Work, by Mrs. Henry Dudeney
(Hurst and Blackett). An interesting, well-
written story in and about a sleepy Sussex
village. There is a good plot, and the char-
acters are well handled. No one could mis-
take Spade Work for a great novel, but
it is pleasing and free from all the cheaper
trick;?.
The Pony Express Rider, by Edward S.
Ellis (Cassell and Co.). A boy’s adventure
story by a craftsman who has G 1 crackling
books of the sort to his credit. On toe
wrapper a mil-sued trapner is sniping Red
Indians from his canoe, and the colored
illustration facing the title page shows a
youth shooting more Red Indians from the
saddle as his fiery mustang gallops away on
page 194. No wonder the Red Man is dying
out; the American adventure writers have
shot him to pieces.
Diverging Roads , by Rose Walder Lane
(The Century Co., New York). This is a
book of the American West, in which the re-
volver plays no part and wild ranch life has
faded out to make room for farms and rail-
way stations. It is the story of a girl’s
battle for success —a girl who does not under-
stand her own aims, but vaguely feels her
own powers. Every line is full of interest
and the story moves fast. The people are
real; and if virtue triumphs and vice fails
in the good old way, the reasons why are
made perfectly clear. The pity is that the
yarn doesn’t reach a finality that can satisfy
the reader.
Married Love, by Marie Carmichael
Stopes (Putnam, London). This book, by
a D.Sc. of London, a Ph.D. of Munich and
a fellow of University College, London,
deals broadly and frankly with the physi-
ology and psychology of marriage. Dr.
Stopes is right up against a lot of the
advice usually supplied in the semi-religious
sex books —and that is an additional recom-
mendation.
His Majesty's Well-beloved, by Baroness
Orczy (Ilodde'r and Stoughton). The
creator of the “Scarlet Pimpernel” keeps a
lot of her old charm. Everybody read her
early books, called them ridiculous and liked
the way in which the palpable absurdity was
made almost convincing. This volume is
better in construction than many of the
older tales. Tom Betterton, famous actor
of the days of Charles 11., is the hero; and
his mode of 'revenge on an aristocratic
enemy is unusual. The story hurries too
fast for you to notice the anachronisms.
On Great Waters, by Frank 11. Shaw
(Cassells). This is the story of the for-
mer training of the men who made the
British mercantile marine. The book is
quiet and restrained, and if a page or two
hang a little heavy the truth of the whole
may be regarded as atoning for it.
Catherine Doyle, by Anthony M. Ludovici
(Hutchinson, London). An altogether un-
convincing yarn excellently told. An Egyp-
tologist marries a tea-room girl; and her
erratic lovemaking after his death holds the
interest. Egyptologists are rather plentiful
in modern novels.
Jerry and Ben, by W. Kiley (Herbert
Jenkins, London). Mamie gives up the
“auntie profession” when she is left a pretty-
cottage on the Yorkshire moors by a former
maid-servant whom she had befriended as
a schoolgirl. Two of her friends accom-
pany her, and these very charming women
watch the drama of Jerry and Ben as it
unfolds. All the characterisation is good
and convincing, and the atmosphere is fine.
“All Clear ,” by John Oxenham (Methuen,
London). A small book of singularly thin
and unattractive verse. Oxenham goes on
and on, but never seems to say anything ex-
cept the obvious; and even that is set to
no tune.
A Man Four-Square, by William Mac-
Leod Raine (Houghton Mifflin. Boston 1.
The shots ring out on every page, and sud-
den death in the south-west of the United
States is the general theme. With all its
blood, the tale is told with skill, and the
interest is held all through.
r Fhe Dominant Race, by F. E. Mills
Young (Hodder and Stoughton, London).
The scene is laid in South Africa, and con-
cerns an English girl who got a husband.
There is a small plot, and the people are
convincing enough as far as they go, which
is not far. The nigger and semi-nigger part
of the tale doesn’t matter; and the title
seems to have been put on by mistake.
All Roads Lead to Calvary, by Jerome K.
Jerome (Hutchinson, London). Behind a
comparatively thin thread of yarn the author
of “The Third Floor Back” preaches a
lengthy sermon on “the press, the pulpit and
the petticoat.” The Labor member of Par-
liament has an impossible wife who couldn’t
possibly shine at afternoon-tea with Queea
Mary. He has also an impossible daughter
who tells her mother how impossible she is.
The poor woman, in her husband’s interests,
tries to die while the husband is falling in
love with Joan, a newspaper woman. Joan
falls in love with him also, so things are
mixed until there is a renunciation. The
author states most of the modern problems
without offering a solution for any of them.
The Poet's Craft, by F. W. Felkin
(George Allen and Unwin). A small hue
capital handbook on the making of verse.
The author has strong opinions which are
generally right. Thus :
The spirit of poetry lives in every beautiful thought
and word and combination of words, but unless we
have the clothing of metre that spirit only produces
poetic thought and poetic prose.
Again:—
I doubt whether any poet inspired by enthusiasm
(as the Greeks called the spirit of Apollo which filled
prophets and poets) was ever much helped by study
of metre. He knows the law- by instinct, but he
treats it as a living guide.
Still, all the laws are here in a book of
37 pages.
The Rain Girl, by the author of “Pat-
ricia Brent. Sp'nster” (Herbert Jenkins,
London). A rather clever satire on Bri-
tain’s old nobility and some other matters.
Two cheerfully insane persons fill the centre
of the stage, and the book contains a lot
of smart tilings and a good deal of honest
laughter. A pleasant book, and well worth
while.
The Inky Way
From the Bar table: —
High Court Justice Rich has been criticised for
giving Tom Ryan his costs against the Argus,
but he had no alternative under the Rule of his
Court, which provides that in a trial before a
justice and a jury “costs shall follow the event,
unless good cause be shown.” As the case was
conducted, good cause was not and could not have
been shown. Indeed, after the summing-up of the
Judge, it was only Ryan’s political notoriety that
saved the Argus several thousands in damages.
“E.M.R.": The
Christmas number of
The Bulletin, in
its interesting article
on “Political Poets,”
mentions the late
Dr. Renwick, a for-
mer N. S. Wales
Minister of Educa-
tion, as responsible
for a book of verse.
The author of that
was another Arthur
Ren wick—eldest son
of the politician. He
wrote “Life’s Com-
edy, or the Secret of
the Passion Flower”
and “Atlantis” while
he was studying at
Worcester College,
Oxford, for his M.A.
degree. The senior
Arthur Renwick died
11 years ago; the
junior is now the C.
of E. rector of Cos-
ford (X.S.W.).
Caricaturist
J.C. BANCKS.
The pile grows. The Scientific Austra-
lian, established in lt>ys by a firm of patent
agents, has been taken over by Peter G.
Tait. who also publishes the Chemical En-
gineering and Mining Review and Com-
monwealth Engineer.
The Red Cross Record, an Adelaide
monthly which has lived nearly four years,
declines to die. It began mainly as a
chronicle of the number of shirts the Sister
Susies had sewed and sent. But under the
editorship of Mrs. Frank Fisher it has
opened its columns to articles on all work
that women are interested in, and it is going
to make a bid for permanency on those lines.
Kate Helen Weston, the novelist, is to be
on the staff, and Elizabeth Jackson. M.A.,
University lecturer on economics, will have
the business management.


a Jf#. ( \\
Sin
aM nHtii«iMuiu Mvia(|
%
«Hi r <»
MU,,
4
hip
\«
n
us r
nni
:
%
uiiiimji
I*
Mi
ill
ii!iiiiiiiiinuii|||||||
‘iii
Ifolii
&
XT
yiil \
ii.jlii> 'llil,/ ,»ni l !l" | J' /i
Sn<
Vvi
h
\ — '
=3
A
m
=7 /
U
3
I
a#
in
i
The Heart of
the Rubber Industry
IN the City of New York, there is a giant triangular ‘sky-
scraper'—a well known landmark there.
It is the Administration building of the United States Rubber
Company —the heart of the largest rubber institution in the
world. It pulses the movements of this company’s own vast
rubber plantations and its own great factories, forty-seven in
number.
It is symbolical of all that is good in rubber —from motor tyre
to rubber boot, and from raincoat to hot-water bottle.
Its seal, the *U. S.' trade mark, is your guarantee%
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia), Limited,
Head Office—s 3 York Street, Sydney.
Branches—l3o-2 William Street, Melbourne.
72-4 Jervois Quay, Wellington, N.Z.


?■o'
Consider
before yon
Consign
your Fat Stock to market. As owner, that’s
your right. But if you want to make quite
sure of top values, Rail or Ship your sheep
and cattle to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
successful salesmen, because they work hard
and push hard in clients’ interests.
Homebush Yards,
SYDNEY.
Enoggera Yards,
BRISBANE.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & '
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN,’
Wiiliaml
>
03
Williams
luxury.
Shaving
Cream
JB
m
THE J B.WH.UAMS '
CIACTONBURY CONN
a small bit of Will-
ianis’ Luxury Sha-
ving Cream squeezed
on the face, or on your
brush quickly works up a big
thick cream-like lather,
which softens most stubborn
beards-holds its moisture
throughout the
shave, leaves the
skin soothed
and refreshed.
IF you prefer
A Shaving
Soap in stick
form, use
Willi a ms’
Holder Top
Shaving
Stick. If you
use Cakes
Wi 1 liams ’
Shaving
Cakes for
the mug.
A full sized tube
of Luxury Sha-
ving C.earo will
be sent post f ree
from Williams,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, on re-
ceipt of 2/- in
stanios.
Sold by Chem- ,
ists everywhere
W. 5
OR 5*
MARTIN’S PILLS
ni’p sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
Vmsmmnmfi
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC (A-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES Various grades.
SPUE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PR.O.PjjjL'LI.P Ns!
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
o Adelaide Agent:
R. N. KIRK? e 23 Street. C . S . STOKES. 63 Brook,nan Buildings.
4
THE, PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
JHKJH
TRY IT lIM YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
JHKJH
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
KJHK
immmmia
mm
nrmmrr
m
IT
m
h
fs \
zz\\
<2
tMJJt
Sr
7?
m
r<
%
*W/o
L*
W
w
uiiuuuuiM
imuuiuuuuinuunmiumnuu?
i im
mi iiiiiiiiinuuu
See this brand
on each Sh’irl'
le
Made in Ausiralia
Shirts
feel better, look better, and are better.
Small wonder when you consider we have been
making shirts for over 25 years. In every, par-
ticular Thistle Shirts measure up to the exacting
requirements of discriminating men.
Ask also for "Thistle” Pyjamas.
Sold at all Leading Shirt Departments.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
A S 4
Dustless Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Glasses
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we . will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Filling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
. Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
The Universal Bustless
Pulveriser. Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10, with
Shaker Feed.
Flour 31111 Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising 1 lour
Plant.
Friction Hoi'ts.
Apron anti Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. U
“Hambone”: She was an earnest young
teacher hammering in physical geography.
An hour's instruction was followed by an
examination. Tommy, whose mind had wan-
dered to deep, coo! pools, was startled to
attention by a demand for the meaning of
“volcano.” He rose clawing the air: “Please,
miss, a volcano is a mountain spitting
saliva!”
“Oscilaudion” : I don’t know whether both
Garden Island (Sydney) and Pennant Hills
wireless stations are needed ; but I do know
that “Padjud” was wrong when he said
(K. 18/12/TO) that only one could work
at a time on account of their being so near
one another. Provided they work on differ-
ent waves, it is now possible, through sharp
tuning adjustments, for two stations to
operate right alongside one another.
“Lou”: He sat down at my table in a
tea-and-cake shop, and looked pretty tired
of things as he searched the menu offering
a choice of about 25 mysteries. Presently
the waitress came alongside, but he hadn’t
decided, and didn’t seem able to. So she
took an order from another table to give
him a chance and then presented herself
again. This time he was ready. “Oh, tea
and indigestion —any sort will do,” he said,
resignedly.
Some branches of the Returned Soldiers’
League scored neatly. Candidates and cam-
paigners had just started to flute about ‘’oar
noble men” and all the rest of it, whereupon
the branches sent a polite note to the cam-
paign councils hoping they would employ
soldiers wherever possible, asking gently if
their secretaries were paid, and trusting if
that were the case that soldiers had the
jobs. In some instances secretaries and
Others promptly intimated that they would
only work in an honorary capacity, even
though they had been paid previously ; and
now the soldiers are watching carefully to
see whether those honorary campaigners
accept honorariums.
The Argus in a recent editorial: —
The youthful democrat is an almost insufferable
creature.... There is no doubt about the hooliganism
of youthful democracy Whether he is boo-hooing
a candidate or airing his opinions, the young
democrat is a great trial.
A couple of days later the Argus was called
upon to report the ragging of Pussyfoot
Johnson by the students of a swagger col-
lege in London, ending in the knocking out
of the man’s eye. And half a hundred times
in the course of, say, ten years the same
paper has reported similar playful outbursts
of society johnnies. On none of these occa-
sions has tile youthful Tory been an “insuf-
ferable creature.” There is always:-some-
thing inexpressibly winning about even his
most barbarous escapades.
The death of Philip Fysh leaves no vacancy
in Tas. politics, as the silver-haired and other-
wise picturesque old gentleman retired from
public life a dozen years ago. He spent
the long evening of his life in comparative
affluence and ease, and up to within a few
weeks of his end in December was frequently
seem motoring quietly around Hobart with
his nurse. He was one of the thonsand-a-
year beneficiaries under the will of the late
“Tattorsall” Adams. George Adams started
the present Tasmanian sweep business In a
building in Flizabeth-street formerly occu-
pied by P.O.F. as a warehouse. Fysh came
in for considerable blame from the unco'
go id for thus and in other ways providing
Tattersall with a home and habitation in
the island ; but though the F.vsh-Bird admin-
istration departed and various “reform”
Ministries have since taken turns at the poli-
tical wheel, it is noteworthy that each suc-
ceeding set of rulers manages to pouch a
bit more revenue from Tatt. than its pre-
decessor took.
“Gallery” : J. M. Fowler, who is said to
have had the worst wishes of Pearce and
Hughes in his struggle for the Perth seat,
left the Labor party on a matter of prin-
ciple, and now seems no more comfortable in
the ranks of a Nationalism whose orthodox
sections regard him as a disturber of the
peace. A grim, square-faced Scotchman,
with a power of invective hardened by a
bloodless deliberation, Fowler can be a nasty
and relentless opponent. He has to Ins
credit, or discredit, an attack on Hughes
which still stands as a classic blasphemy
among Hughes’s idolaters; I remember it as
a curiously penetrating speech, falling in
great gouts exf bluntly-phrased opprobrium
on the reddening heads of the Government,
and it went on for many hushed minutes,
gradually discarding the softening influence
of adjectives until it became a whip "f
naked and biting nouns. This oration, in-
spired by Fowler’s deep disgust over the
Conscription failure, settled hint further
back in the self-selected ostracism he pre-
tends to enjoy. Nowadays, he is widening
the rift by his uncompromising hostility to
party engineering and his undeniable con-
tempt for its chief exponents.
From Macquarie-street:—
In view of the thousands of Diggers who have
returned from Palestine with their red blood-cells
rrammed with the parasite of malaria, it is to be
sincerely hoped that the scientific expedition de-
spatched to Funafuti (B. 25/12/T9) by the London
School of Tropical Medicine will be able to decide,
once for all, what brand of mosquito is the criminal
in connection with the spread of this scourge. It
is a very important problem from a public-health
point of view, and requires to be elucidated without
delay now that we have about 18,000 potential
malaria-carriers amongst us. The mosquito whose
character is under the gravest suspicion at present
belongs to the anopheline species, and is called
Nyssorynchu# annulipes. It has been found in great
numbers breeding in the Murray River irrigation
areas as well as in Queensland, where the disease is
endemic. The ordinary house mosquito has been
acquitted of ail participation in the crime. Notwith-
standing the vast experience obtained in Palestine
and Macedonia to guide them, scientists have made
very little progress either in the methods of treat-
ment or in the pathology of the disease. Petroleum,
which was formerly much used for oiling the pools
and streams, gave way there to cresol, which pre-
vented the larvae, from developing when it was used
in solutions of from 1 in 100 to 1 in 1000.
Quinine is still the sheet-anchor in treatment. As
a prophylactic it was a failure, but when given to
the victims in the intervals between the attacks it
soon led to a comparative cure. But relapses were
common, and always will he, until the disease is
better understood.


S\\\y
‘ v.v.
j'r'r-'x'ftV
• • .....v.-.v"
’
C l:.’V
! 2'f ft\v S' |
v>\\\\\\\ Xxyx\\\y\
<o..V---V # if'
n\: ■
iwv\>k\'v
I. • \ I 1
k* V %
.-W-XvV —••
AW\\v. V.\\\V '
•V.\\ VjX n A\\\ •
i yii.i § i 5 ;• X& s:,V : iiV ....
*•>. 'ft ;; v \ \# %iv-
*<(■> \*">J ' -'S' a-*\■
INJ
Imß
siiliif
iinii
'>":s
3^S
jsss
\ftv,
* S V
ss
ysftftSftX $
5-ii
\£S % _ A..«x>
f I? \i;\ s ■>’ s'<• i
3#
X"'
m
>.'!S
vSfti
w
*955:/
#
S'#;
2
m.
SWN
A\v\\\\\v <w\nVv\
W&JI
r\
\
p
ts*.
I
iSSf
ft ..jft ■•■'.«
' s""-- x
•SSS' '
* 1
\W>\\\\\\V
*-'SSSS»
ill*
iP
» if ,f..,
.... $ fw xlf
m&ftr
M m ;'....
P»*. m
issff
yftS
Nfts
«r*V*A
Ml I I l/siA?'
iift;. 1 .s&•■ |/JT%
ftx
X
%
».W
«I
n
m
ft.\ft
•vsV .*>>',ss
v\\\*V
l
«SS&«S
S3S&
S»ss§SS&:«»r
\"S
t'///
mMm
•WfflSx
t
*
3ft.
%
\V'.'
ft.sft
HH
fji ; ;^S''
;,\'S
m
iSS<S
zc=
it
s*.
fill
J
iii«
m
mm
.V
01
PREPARED
:s?SS3sV.>'ft>»%J\
as-ss
ii
, ’•*«. EvtnvwHene un®**
'5"» B«r#tf- A Sons l -
w
am
Well on the job.
Still mixing
<3
Paint-mixing by band is a laborious, slow and COSTLY process. Tbe painter who uses
B.P. (Prepared) goes straight to the job with paint that powerful machines have ground
to a remarkable fineness, unattainable by hand-mixing. It is this thoroughness in grinding
which makes the paint spread further than any other, whilst at the same time COVERING
the surface effectually. Ask your painter to use
D.
<a.
(■
n
□
s§aj
(Prepared)
Manufacturers: LEWIS BERGER & SONS (Aust.) LTD., Works: Rhodes. Offices: 16-18 Young Street.
MELBOURNE: H. J. Corder Pty., Ltd.
John Banks & Son.
BRISBANE: James Caihpbell & Sons, Ltd.
DISTRIBUTORS:
ADELAIDE: W. & T. Rhodes, Ltd.
PERTH: McLean Bros. as tuty. uicl.
HOBART: T. J. Cane & Co.
(N.Z.): Phillipps & Impey.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) : Robt. Martin, Ltd.
R. & E. Tingey & Co., Ltd.


_J
cy/>
c fl°se
ofjuxite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For more than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public bg
their durabilitg, and
theg are just as dur-
able to-dag as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
HEALTH CAMPAIGN
is the most important of all.
It is the most vital safeguard
for your family and liome.
Protect Your Own Health.
Keep your children in good
physical condition. You
cannot foresee sickness, but
you can provide against it.
The
Montgomerie - Neilson
Oxidising Sewage
Disposal System
Gives to country homes all the
modern sanitary comfort and conveni-
ence of sewered towns, doing away
with all chance of disease dissemi-
nated by the old-fashioned outhouse,
the insanitary, filthy cesspool, and
septic tanks generally.
There is absolutely no smell with
this system. The cost of installation
is not heavy, and when you consider
that 600 are in use in New South
Wales alone, you will realise that the
system is worth looking into.
You can obtain a free booklet tell-
ing of the many merits of the M.-N.
System. It also gives splendid tes-
timonials from satisfied users the
country over —facts that should weigh
heavily with you.
Send for free copy to-day.
Montgomerie - Neilson
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
87 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 8976.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
V
9
/VSJ
COESET
Here is Corset
Perfection
Fitted to the figure
for which it was de-
signed, a GOSSARD
gives that grace of
body, standing, sit-
ting or walking
which is best ex-
pressed in the one
word style.
The GOSSARD attains
for every type of
figure the ideal pro-
portions of that type;
the flat graceful back
lines—the straight
front with its delicate
accent at the waist
the beautifully
moulded hips.
Every GOSSARD CORSET is hy-
gienically correct. It is designed
to support the abdominal and
back muscles and to induce an
erect posture that will encourage
deep breathing. Thus every
GOSSARD protects the wearer
against those many ills that often
result from improper corsetry.
You can select a GOSSARD designed
especially for your type of figure at
any of the stores named below.
AUSTRALIA.
tanner & Comi>any, Ltd., Sydney.
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
A. G. Robertson & Co., Lismore.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd, Melbourne.
Harry Davies & Co., Ballarat.
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane.
A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rockhamp-
ton.
Crainmond & Stark, Toowoomba.
Carroll’s, Townsville.
James Marshall & Co., Ltd., Adel-
aide.
NEW ZEALAND.
Milne & Choyce, Ltd.., Auckland.
J. Ballantyne & CoChristchurch.
D. I. C., Christchurch.
I). I. C., AVellington.
George & Kersley, Ltd., Wanganui.
Lewis’ Ltd., Invercargill.
Herbert, Haynes & Co., Ltd.,
Dunedin.
J. Ballantyne & Co., Timaru.
TASMANIA.
Brownell Bros., Ltd., Hobart. Ludbrooks, Launceston.
The H. W. Gossard Co., Inc.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
CHICAGO NEW YORK buenos aires
TORONTO
Made in the
United States and Canada
Th&Lace In Front
Worn with Health and Comfort
By Women the World Over
J. H. Prow.se, the new Country Party
M.H.R. for Swan, was born at Adelong
(N.S.W.) 48 years ago. For some years lie
has been an insurance manager in Perth, and
at on-e time was Mayor of the city, lake
several other new Federal members, he is a
whale on religious work, and is president of
the Westralian Council of Churches.
The Edward VII. statue done by Bertram
Mackennal is to be erected on the pedestal
prepared for it on the lawns along St. Kilda-
road in March. Nobody lias suggested a
statue to iliginbotham, the Great democrat
and high-minded Chief Justice, who went
out this tune 2< years ago. And there are
reminders of men —Ilopetoun and I i tzgibbon,
for instance —who did something for the
State, but not half as much.
Randolph Bedford in reply :
“Settled” (B. 25/12/’l9) settles himself in his
attempt to settle my statements with mere denial.
My figures came from the Queensland State sugar-
mill at Babinda, not from any anonymous blitherer
who is “of opinion” that there is lost juice, although
the mill’s efficiency says there isn't. Let “Settled”
settle it himself with the mill staff who supplied the
figures and have to publish them in Government
returns.
At the instance of the Australian Histori-
cal Society a tablet has been placed on the
premises of the C.S.R. in Sydney to say that
on the site was the first Treasury of N. S.
Wales. The house was built by William
Cox, and on May 27, 1824, William Bal-
combe, first Treasurer, took possession. The
business was conducted there for two years,
and was then transferred to a building in
Barrack-square.
This story waddles up from Geelong
(Vic.). Just before Christmas Brown
received a present of four splendid geese,
which, for safe-keeping overnight, he impri-
soned within the trellised enclosure sur-
rounding a small ivy-clad outhouse. In the
morning they were gone. Brown was wild ;
but he was wilder later on when the post-
man brought a card intimating the thanks
of the sanitary man, and wishing him a
Ilappy New Year.
Oswald Stoll is going to give the poor Bri-
tish composer a show at his London Coli-
seum. Hitherto at that and the other big
variety houses there is an interval in the
programme during which the band makes
foreign noises and the male section of the
audience goes out to solve the Russian pro-
blem. Stoll has decided to devote this inter-
val to new and original compositions by Bri-
tishers ; and his music master is being over-
whelmed with waltzes, marches and over-
tures.
“Widg-ee”: The . co-operative canning-
factory at Shepparton (Vic.) has rosy pro-
spects for the new season. Vast quantities
of apricots, peaches and pears are to be
potted this year and the factory has not had
to solicit a single order, there being more
buyers waiting for supplies than can be
satisfied by the resources of the.district. This
is a different picture from that of a few
years ago when beauteous half-pound peaches
fell off the trees in tons and rotted where they
lay, while Melbourne retailers went placidly
on charging sixpence a pound for what the
public cared to buy at that price.
“Hotch” : The desert roads mentioned by
“Kiss” (B. l/l/’2O) were not galvanised
iron under the sand, but wire neuing laid
on top for the sole use of the infantry ; it
was sudden death to anyone caught taking
a horse over the wire, except at the proper
crossing-places. After passing Rafa, where
the country was not so sandy, roads were
made for the motor traffic by shovelling the
loose topsoil olf, leaving a fairly hard track
Horses were also warned off this. The wire
might make a good road in places, but on
our way dovyn to the Canal to embark we
noticed furlongs of it hanging in mid-air,
the sand having blown from under.
“Murkali” : One cf the chief causes of de-
lay to telegrams is the volume of “urgent”
traffic, which has now reached such pro-
portions as to seriously disorganise the ser-
vice. Recently one of the N.S.W. repeating
centres was occupied with urgent and alleg-
edly urgent bus.ness till 10.50 a.m. Thus
ordinary telegrams lodged at 9. a.m. didn’t
get a move on till nearly 11. It is on lines
carrying a number of stations that the urgent
wire interferes most. Instead of being able to
clear each station right out, operators have
continually to leave and attend to double-
rate stuff. Then delay occurs in raising that
station again. Yesterday I left a station to
attend to an urgent. Immediately three
more were filed, and it was 21 minutes before
I was able to resume the interrupted circuit.
Since the telegraph service is a public utility,
the urgent privilege should be confined to
really urgent messages. At present some
trivial stuff is paid double-rate and there-
after takes precedence over important wires
lodged perhaps hours before.
“Sapper” : Brig.-Gen. Carl Jess, who suc-
ceeded Monash as G.O.C. of A.I.F. in
the U.K., is, in the opinion of many Diggers,
the best of them. It wasn’t only for the
things he did: it was also for the things
he wouldn t do. At Pozieres, in July,
1916, Jess was Colonel O.C. 7th Bat-
talion. On July 24 the stli and 6th Bat-
talions, supported by two brigades of artil-
lery (including the famous Lahore battery),
got a knock-back in attempting to take a cer-
tain strong post of Fritz’s. At 11 p.m.,
through somebody’s blunder, Jess was ordered
to attack this same position with his regi-
mental bombers. He wired Brigade lI.Q.
that, as casualties had been heavy, he could
muster only four bombers in the 7th. He
was then ordered to commandeer any that
were left in the sth and 6th Battalions.
Brigade H.Q. were next informed that sth.
6th and 7th bombers combined numbered 18
only. The reply was that Jess must do the
best he could, and that the Corps Commander
expected the attack to take place at 2 a m.
As it was 1.30 a.m. when this last was sent
Jess had to make a quick decision. He
did. He wired Corps through his Brigadier
that, as two full battalions with heavy artil-
lery support had failed to take the position, it
would be sacrificing lives hopelessly to
attempt it with a few bombers, and he would
resign his commission rather than do it.
This was forwarded to Birdwood, and to the
latter’s credit he immediately cancelled the
stunt. Jess, by the way, was mentioned in
despatches for his “splendid work at
Fozieres.”


A REAL KEROSENE ENGINE AT LAST.
Operates on Low-grade Power Kerosene.
Equipped with High-tension Magneto
and Force Feed Lubricator.
M
mm
kt;'J
mi
ini
iitj
ll& : -a
I m
STATE DISTRIBUTORS WANTED.
SPECIFICATION.
VALVES—InIet and exhaust valves are located in the head
and are both mechanically operated.
LUBRICATION—Detroit force feed lubrication for cylinder
and three crank-shaft bearings. Does away with the
old splash type lubrication.
MAGNETO High tension, gear driven, magneto fitted
„ . coupling. Engine starts on first throw.
CARBURETTER—Is a simple Venturi tube with a constant
level fuel cup. Two-way valves enable operation
on kerosene or petrol.
BEARlNGS—Adjustable and removable die-cast bearing
provided for the three crank-shaft bearings.
GOVERNOR—Throttle governor keeps the speed constant
regardless of the load placed on the engine.
PULLEY—Suitable Belt Pulley is furnished, placed on the
e ard ° i Cr f 3 nk-shaft. Demonstrations given at any time.
Goveriments g " extens,vely durin * the '™r by the English, French and American
State Distributors wanted for EACH of the Commonwealth States and New Zealand.
Write, wire or telephone.
AVERY N. HERRICK,
Agent for The Allied Construction Machinery Corporation of New York,
Telephone No.: City 19548. 76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
*
O
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickiv, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
b.ood and cause blood-poisoning.
- . X.
JHKJHK
yoJ d have r got U wTth , o i ut g n t rid of * very J orn
si without pain or discomfoit.
nevert 3 !-;^ 0 ' 11 Cure is rem arkable because it
raw It S > S ° r - turns the true flesh sore or
harmless. tVp" 11 S antise P tic > safe and
1/- p«r t> corn shrivels up and comes out.
Suaset Drno °r eve^ wiiere - Posted free by
1 Dru g Co - 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
1.~
n^C
V7^
V
A
l
A/ji
an
\
a
•-A-S
L j y
■ 8
Livepgimph Pictures
BY- —
CttAMBERLMh'S
Tablets -
HEARTBURN-Most people know what this means
as few are exempt from frequent “ spells. ”
The appetite becomes impaired, while
a severe gnawing or burning sensation
is experienced in the upper part of the
abdomen.
Heartburn is one of the many ways in
which the digestive organs express
disapproval of ill-treatment —warn you
to be careful.
Chamberlain s Tablets for the stomach
and liver give instant relief in all cases
of heartburn, and by toning and
•strengthening the stomach and bowels,
prevent a return of the trouble.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are an excep-
tional remedy for all troubles arising
from the stomach, liver and bowels, and
are so mild and gentle in their action
that they can be used for children and
old folks.
You may have tried “this, that, or
the other,” but for permanent relief and
pleasurable action you will never find
anything to equal Chamberlain’s Tablets.
For indigestion, constipation, bilious-
ness, headache, sour stomach, etc.,
nothing equals
CfIAMBEPLAINS"IABLEIS
J°rTi ie Stomach & Liver.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
idtal to young and old. TLe great danger in
.his disease is due to the frequent ia.ck of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berjain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this med cine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges tl e stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
pa ay be avoided.
ICe Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe'
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy, One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.


On retiring, comb the hair out straight,
then make a parting, gently rubbing in
Cuticura Ointment with the end or the
finger. Anoint additional partings until
the whole scalp has been treated.
Place a light covering over the hair to
protect the pillow from possible stain.
The next morning shampoo with Cuti-
cura Soap and hot water.
Soap to clean no and Ointment to heal. Twwu
* Co., Sydney, H. 8. W." Sold by dealers through-
oat the world.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. Ke likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory fe ding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Mellin’s
Food
i* made in a flash—needs no cooking
Send for sample of Mellm’s Food and Hand-
-1 oolt for Mothers -The Care of Infants—Free
Messrs. Goldin & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
r 'i.
yvr.l
MU
WARATAH
Will make a more durable fence at
smaller cost. It never sags, and
stands all weathers successfully.
WARATAH WIRE is TOUGHER,
STRONGER, CHEAPER than imported
wires. Use Waratah on all fences.
Every storekeeper can get “Waratah.”
Each coil lias the WARATAH IDEN-
TIFICATION TAG attached.
FROM THE ORE TO THE FENCE
AUSTRALIAN.
Fencing Booklet Free. N 19.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. Ltd.
Ferrars Street,
South Melbourne.
AVire Mills at Newcastle,
N.S.W.
\ 4UST«A
ASK DISTINCTLY FOR
PARIS GARTERS
Value and Service Guaranteed.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A Stein & Co., Chicago.
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch yoir
Ceylon Postage Stands
For Sale all kinds of foß^f e
Stamps, used or unused. Wholesale omj.
Lists on application.
R. E. DE ZOYSA, Stamp Dealer,
Norris Road, Pettah, Colombo, Ceylom
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to lone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
e good night’s rest. Try a tew drops o£
Dhosformo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
C/VC
C-A'C
C AC-
C AC-
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER. NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA— CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES— SB Pitt Street, Sydney - - -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
CAC-
C-AT.
C AC-
E
T
H
E
M
S
P
E
U
R
The golden rule in building a house or a
car is—first get your foundations right.
The rest is then a comparatively simple
matter.
m
1 5
The frame and springs—the foundation of the
car—are, in the Supreme Sunbeam, specially
designed and constructed to withstand heavy
road shocks.
This is why the Supreme Sunbeam is the favourite car
for overseas use and all extra-strenuous condit.ons.
THE SUNBFAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept.: 62, Oxford St.,London, W.l, England
Cable Address : “ Subeamoco, London.”
Head Office : Wolverhampton, England.
f
a
$
Street; Sy4» e *
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WILISFORD, 822 George
J P Cooke entered the Ballarat branch
of the Savings Bank close on (30 years ago,
and made it his aim to become manager. He
succeeded and held the post for 30 years till
he retired at the end of last month. He saw
depositors multiply by 23, and deposits grow
from £36,000 to £1,289,000.
“Bromide”: There were many souvenir
kings amongst the Diggers, but the most
original one I met was wearing a signet,
ring composed of red vulcanite with a molar
tooth set therein. Asked him its origin, and
learned that he had moulded it himself from
a mouth “plate’ he had “ratted ’ from a
Fritz. He added that he had also fashioned
a tiepin with a similar ornament, but taut
attracted too much attention, arid some um-
umph pinched it.
Mrs. Ada Hordern, lately dead, used to
live in the historic Drummoyne House over-
looking the Parramatta. Captain \\ m.
Wright, one of Sydney's pioneer shipowners,
built the old place nearly a century ago.
The garden soil was imported by the cap-
tain from Maoriland, and it took him seven
years to do the job. He spent more but
wasted less on the interior. Some of the
rare tapestry which adorned the walls is
preserved in the Sydney Gallery.
It was New Year's Day on board a Clan
liner, and the Roaring Forties were doing
their darnedest. Reginald Vere de Vere,
descending to the saloon for the first time,
found himself seated beside Duncan Mac-
gregor, who was enjoying a dish o’ haggis.
Reginald shuddered. Then his eye bright-
ened. Screwing his monocle in still tighter
lie leaned with interest towards the other’s
plate. "Pardon me, are you about to —ev
have your lunch, or —er have you just had
it V”
Jens August Jensen’s chance in Bass
(Tas.) was Buckley’s all through, yet. he
put up such a wild and whirling campaign,
and posed so picturesquely and indignantly
as an injured innocent, who was being
basely defrauded of his inalienable right to
a full, free and open inquiry into the alleged
causes of his deposition from the Nationalist
Cabinet, that he persuaded nearly 1700 elec-
tors to give him their No. 1 votes. But one-
seventh of the electors don’t count —except
as savers of a candidate’s deposit.
The old name of Stock drops out of the
legal list in Adelaide at last. Fred Stock
started in practice just half a century ago.
He was Attorney-General for a few months
in the ’eighties. A clever man with a quick
temper, he had many partners, but kept none
of them long. R. W. Bennett, the last of
them, has carried on as Stock and Bennett
until now, when the style changes to Ben-
nett, Campbell and Ligertwood. Campbell,
M.C. and bar, is the inter-State wicket-
keeper and lacrosse-player ; Ligertwood was
formerly associate to the late and the present
Chief Justices.
“M.E.M.”: When my time comes to go
below I would like the professional lowerers
to stow any packs of playing-cards they may
have in their trousers pockets. I don’t mind
the boys having a friendly game of nap or
poker during tiie funeral-train journey ; but
I wish to avoid if possible a repetition of
what occurred a while ago at RookwoOd. The
coffin had just touched bottom when a pack
dropped from the inside coat pocket of one
bending assistant and fell into the grave.
Only one of the cards turned face up, and
that was the ace of hearts. This may have
been a good omen; but if I am to have a
turn-up, make it spades and I go alone.
Melbourne City Council has just emerged
worsted from an encounter with Direct
Action. With a view to gathering in more
shekels it lately decided on daily instead of
tri-weekly fruit and vegetable markets, and
invited the growers to line up every morn-
ing. The growers communed with the buyers,
both being organised, and unanimously stayed
away on the new market days; so, after view-
ing empty stalls, Bumble bowed to the facts
and went back to the old plan. But so
far he hasn’t lowered the shop rents which
he raised when he set out to make things
hum. And you can’t effectively boycott your
landlord when you’ve established a paying-
business in his rented premises.
The pocket-edition ’plane is coming. A
machine already produced is collapsible,
folding into a parcel weighing a mere
2001 b.; so the man who can’t afford an
aerodrome can take his ’bus home and stack
it between the bookcase and the coal-scuttle.
Some of the earliest experiments in flight
were made by men who relied on light wings,
or parachutes, or even baby balloons fastened
to the shoulders; but these experiments,
although they created a little excitement, did
not inspire any of those who attended the
funerals to carry them further. With a
much more powerful machine at his feet, the
future man may, however, soar in safety with
something like those original wings.
“Southron”: Visited during the holidays
the “tea plantation” at Macedon (Vic.), of
which “Gum Leaf” wrote (B. 18/12/T9).
Away back in the old days the plants were
sent up from Melbourne as an experiment.
There they still are growing, in a neglected
corner of the nursery. There are 50 or 60 of
Them, old veterans and young vigorous plants
that have struck out for themselves, making a
do of it in soil that would break your heart.
Some of the bushes are Bft. high, the tallest
growing under the pines. Qne small-leaved
variety grows only about 2ft. into the air,
but is "about 4ft. across. The leaves are hard,
shining and rather sparse. That the plants
will grow even in adverse conditions is un-
doubted.
“J.X.”: Re “General Practitioner’s” com-
plaint arising out of recent fatalities, I
have seen electrical installations passed by
the Sydney City Council that were an out-
rage. " Most of the defects are due to the
villainous fittings used. In no branch of
the metal trades has the art of shoddy
attained such perfection. The metal screws
that are supposed to grip the wires some-
times fall out of their own accord; at
other times to touch them with a screw-
driver strips the thread. It is common
practice in such cases to drive a match in
the hole to act as a wedge on the wire.
The wedge will act all right, but on a wood
ceiling it is a source of danger. One cure
would be to make metal parts containing
wires of a certain specified thickness. I
have seen metal walls so thin that they ,
could not hold more than two or three
threads of the screw.


J
Don be Brothers
MOTOR CAR
Jt is not too much to say that everyone feels the
same way about Dodge Brothers’ Motor Car.
Dodge Brothers are keenly alive to that fact.
The thought of the owners goodwill has always
been uppermost in their minds.
Goodwill rules and regulates their business.
It is the dominant motive that inspires them to
make the car better and better.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Standardised Motors,
Sydney.
Limited,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., L,td.,
Brisbane.
Winterbottom Motor Co., I>td.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., L,td.,
Adelaide.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
GHJKGH
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rrniichfs in all parts of the worl-1.
“A Complete Food
by which even the can be nourished and
sti engthened such is B nger’s, the Food which is always
prepared with fres,l new milk.
The unique selr - digestive ingredients in Benger's
partially diges. boih milk and Food wn le you prepare it.
This is why - -
GHJKGH
Food
224 A.
can be fully nutritive when digestion is weakened.
Bmger’s Food is for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
During 35 years’ use by the medical profession it has
fulfilled every claim made for it.
Benerer’s Pood is entirely British in origin, and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and, full particulars post free from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England-
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New Y'ikk U S.a.) 90, Beekman St. Oer>6u throughout CANADA.
SAFEGUARD YOU* HEALTH
QtJ.Collis Brownes
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and iu the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks EEVEItISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COI-IC.
A well-proved palliative
in the paina of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prises in England, Iji, Sr, 5/
Made in England.
REMINGTON UMC
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Ham merles*. Easily taken apart
and assembled. Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS II CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 411 b. price £5/10/- net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK. LTD. .). i*. KNIGHT.
COWLES & DUNN. !’. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK .V KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers: —
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
Labor Problem
Solved by Bus.
Motor Car Carries Ten Passengers
Daily Over Desert to Potash Fields.
Success of Experiment Emphasises
Business Value of Automobile.
Motor ears are not only assisting in the
solution of transportation difficulties where
there are no railroads and where roads are
short of hauling equipment, but are also
making themselves an important factor in
solving the labor problems of large employers.
The great potash fields at Searles Lake,
in the alkali regions of south-eastern Cali-
fornia, are difficult of access because of their
remoteness and the lack of adequate railway
facilities. Consequently the labor problem
always has been more or less troublesome to
t!ie potash industry. The motor car was
-once suggested as a means of transporting
laborers from Los Angeles to Searles Lake,
but the thought of tin* terrible roads through
the desert region promptly dissuaded any-
one inclined toward the experiment.
The idea persisted, however, and ulti-
mately proved itself not only feasible but
profitable. To-day, W. 11. Hagans makes it
his business. He drives the 190 miles from
Los Angeles to Searles Lake, through the
desert roads between Lancaster, Borosolvay
and Trona, every day. With him on every
trip go ten passengers, and the trip is made
in seven hours and a half, despite the rough
roads. Au idea of these roads may be had
from Mr. Hagans’ statement that “2500 miles
is the limit for the best cord tyres, and this
on a car known to give the maximum in tyre
mileage.”
“My experiment is more than successful,”
said Hagans. “I have already made 11,000
miles over this route with one car and am
just starting. When I chose a Dodge
Brothers motor car for this work I knew
that I was going to impose on it a task far
beyond its intended capabilities. What I
wanted was reliaole performance with low
initial cost. To have bought motor equip-
ment that is ordinarily thought of first for
this heavy hauling would have cost me from
three to seven thousand dollars. My car
cost infinitely less, but to-day is running per-
fectly, and my repair costs for this first five
months have been practically nothing.
“I thoroughly believe in a more general
use of the motor car for business purposes.
Many people seem to have the idea that ears
are built only to use for pleasure. Let them
pay us a visit out in the desert, on the roads
to the potash fields, and they will get a
different idea of what the word ‘utility’
means.”
The Standardised Motors, Limited, Syd-
ney, lay great stress on the value of the
DODGE BROTHERS CAR for utility pur-
poses, and to that end they are devoting
special efforts to bring the car before the
notice of Pastoralists, Farmers and business
people generally.


CHUNDER LOO PLAYING CN BEACH WITH CHILDREN,
n
ns**
/h
A A
/
-v
A
m
>y
i? . A
Vi
VS:/#
*
23
mm
n
i
<7-
SifeSj
/■>
V.
r*
■>
VM
t li?
LJs
Li
issssfcsgs
W»«BW£S
kb
/
5*5
I; JB
wT'.
*i\
J
aS
V 3
~-•>; >• VsJt
& fsbs*
SP:
/" r! 3S>S
/>- *.<\
- \
S 3,
«*«***•
r-’fj&.-.i
“”3StW„
*
s»*
■V s
«*"s
vS
,<:
✓c-
m
Llo qc c (nop; a
a
Cobra,” Toho. Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
’Neath a summer
Sky of blue,
Plays with children
On the sands.
Now with busy
Spades and hands
They have buried
Him alive!
Wait a bit!
He will contrive
To escape
His fate, they say,
In his quick,
Clean “COBRA” way


Do You Appreciate
Exclusive Ties?
UNIQUE DISPLAY NOW SHOWING.
A MAN S tastes and character-
istics are invariably re-
flected in his Neckwear.
The selection of a suitable style is
made easy by choosing your
requirements at David Jones’. A
unique display of all that is
newest is now showing in depart-
ment. Prices have been strictly
maintained on a conservative
basis. The necessity for present-
day economy has been recognised.
Examples of the artistry of the
world s leading tie silk designers
and craftsmen are available in
profusion. Colorings are per-
fectly conceived and as perfectly
executed. Patterns graduate from
the small and unassuming to the
bold and vigorous. Every type
of personality can be suited.
Kingsway Ties, 3/6.
Better Qualities, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6 & 10/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
SEE
5*%
M
U
&
I
m
i
David oJones
for Service
SYDNEY
O pp. G. P. O.
Tel. City 6336.
■
m
r . *
2A 5 A j •A
:£ V» I
■ -
2>?t .2 ■' f
2‘“! 2 \i 2^;}
2/_j ■ 2>ti
: 2-J
2r'f ■ 'fyp
ay-feiiti'
&<-! < 2??
U2'V
a i
2 1 a--! 2;'J
2$ ■ ~ ' *
2 i a •-1 £ '■; 1
2**l t ££l
2 r!
£?
\^'" i
A whole storeroom on the Transveyor system, where seven men with Transveyor Elevating
Trucks do work which previously took thirty men using old-style trucks.
TheTRANSVEYOR TRUCK
enables one man to do the
work of a crowd!!
CONGESTION on factory, store or warehouse floors not only retards rapid and
systematic work, but multiplies the danger of accidents and mistakes. The Trans-
veyor Elevating Truck solves the problem of conveying products from one depart-
ment to another, or in handling goods either inward or outward—all this without
confusion and with half the staff needed when using old-fashioned hand-trucks.
The Transveyor Truck pays for itself by eliminating the time and effort wasted in the
repeated handling of goods.
You buy nothing but the sturdy Transveyor Truck. You can build the simple wooden
platforms as the demand for them develops. For handling raw materials to finished products
m all classes of factories, for eliminating waste effort, waste time and waste space in stores
and warehouses, the Transveyor Truck is a marvel. Let us demonstrate the Transveyor
before you, without the slightest obligation. Catalogue posted free on request.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Tammany.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was a fixture in the boarding-house
on lOoth-street; a middle-aged man
with the smoothest, most gracious
manners in the world. He seemed to do no
work during the day; he was invariably out
in the evening until late; and William,
the Swiss waiter, said he was a pol’tician.
lie had the best room in the house, fitted,
furnished and fixed up in absurdly uncom-
fortable automatic comfort. God knows
what his bed didn’t become by day. -enter
lunch one day (I was looking for a job, and
a meal paid for is a meal), he invited me
to this exasperating retreat, and gave me
a cigar and a praposition.
“You are looking for woik?”
I confessed it.
“Why not join us?'’
Elaborated, us was Tammany, a New
1/ t democratic institution named after an
old Indian chief. Its objects were entirely
philanthropic and benevolent; it was an
admired and beloved throughout
In lurk. I had heard of Tammany— not
quite in these words, perhaps, but I had
heard of it—before I hit Manhattan; and I
was interested. Further elaborated, it had
two slogans: fortissimo, “the laborer is
worthy of his hire” ; and piano, “there are
two grafts, one honest and the other dis-
honest.
I asked where I came in—what could I,
a humble jobless engineer, do that Tam-
many could buy ? The politician’s white
face, large and deadly smooth, became ex-
pressionless as he handed me his praposi-
tion. I had been observed, it seemed, as a
well-educated young man without employ-
ment or obvious bad habits; he had con-
sulted a vurry important political man in
that cidy, who had dined with him at the
boarding-house last night for the purpose of,
111 his turn, observing me. This second
scrutiny being satisfactory (I began to feel
like a prima donna or worse), he was em-
powered to bring me this praposition. For
a year I was to receive the sum of $35 a
week in return for my services as the em-
ployee of Tammany. I had no office, no
hours, and no specified detailed duties; my
job was lookin’ round. I was 23, and it
sounded better to me then than it would
now. At the end of the year, or earlier
according to the results of further scrutiny,
my salary was to be raised to $5O a week ;
after that, the laborer was worthy of his
hire.
“But wliat do I doT’ I asked.
What fugitive expression had come into
his face left it again as he explained. I
attended generally upon him as secretary
when he wanted me, which would not be
often, pen and ink being things he disliked.
I went to all political meetings in the ward,
hearing* all that I could, and getting
acquainted.. I would soon find out what
useful services I could render, and in what
saloons I could pick up useful information.
If I fitted in and took to the work, all
would be well; if not, I was safe, under
contract, for $35 a week for a year—Tam-
many would back his and his friend’s
opinions of my possibilities to that amount.
Three things: I must take out papers of
naturalisation at once, I must trim my Bri-
tish accent to the Harvard imitation of it
as soon as I could, and I must go to elocu-
tion classes for future public speaking.
I went down-town to the office of an
engineer to whom I had a letter. I de-
scribed my earlier interview to him in the
confidence I had given the politician, and
asked his advice. That was succinct: to
work for my money. Of Tammany he had
quite a few things to say. In his business
of contracting engineer he had met Tam-
many when municipal contracting had
looked like easy money to him. He had
gone in person to a saloon at night and
laid seven unaddressed envelopes each con-
taining $lOOO in cash before seven chairs
round a table in an empty room, he having
landed a contract that day. He had run
up to the last half-hour before signing a
certainty contract, to be told at the Town
Hall that the job laid been let to a rival
ten minutes ago, a rival with a longer purse
or the more direct ear of Boss Fltzaerald.
If he had any documentary evidence, it
was worthless; Tammany could bust him
for ever in the State of New York in a day
if he' squealed. In Hell’s kitchen, where
black and white met, Tammany was the
landlord of the gambling “clubs,” the brothels
and the sneak-easies of all kinds and colors.
From 42nd-street to the Battery every
saloon was the bond-slave of Tammany, who
swung its votes and bought its patron’s
votes for $1 each. If this didn’t happen,
the saloon was busted; its license was con-
fiscated for municipal reasons.
He told me stories of fat spider men,
thieves in excelsis, who sat plotting in saloon
back-rooms, heavy, inscrutable men with a
million votes in their pockets, for which Tam-
many in fear and trembling paid the best
price. Stories of a labyrinth of spies, a
myriad eyes watching to see that the strongest
thief was honestly treated by the other
thieves, some graft being honest and the
laborer being worthy of his hire. Stories of
the “gun-men” who murdered in the cer-
tainty of a light sentence, Justice being Tam-
many’s.
Quite a number of things lie told me; and
I went back to lOGth-street and refused the
pol’tician’s offer on the grounds of religious
scruples-—to his bitter astonishment. He
felt that his observation of likely young men
was not as good as it had been.
Many good men have set out to beat Tam-
many. Roosevelt would have done it—did
do it for a time —but he moved up to a bigger
job where Tammany was only part of his
fight. That is no good with Tammany, and
that is the trouble: only the men wanted
for bigger things are big enough to tackle it.
After Boss Salzer’s impeachment in 1013,
and with no saloons to plot in to-day, it looks
as if it were beaten now. It isn’t; it is sit-
ting back. So long as its liiah-salaried, placid
men can afford to pay likely emigrants £7
a week while the placid men find out what
the emigrants can do, I don’t see how it
can be beaten.
HILARY LOFTING.


/H
1
c;
; (i
n
4K
•r:
A 26
At Work or At Play
Indoors or out of doors —-
Milkmaid Coffee & Milk
is the ideal beverage at
all times.
With a tin of Milkmaid
Coffee & Milk and
hot water only you can
enjoy perfect, creamy
coffee at any moment.
For your next picnic take
Milkmaid CofJee& Milk.
Drink it, too, at break-
fast, lunch or supper.
You will be delighted.
Remember ! no sugar—no milk re-
quired with Milkmaid Coffee & Milk.
Just hot water. It’s so simple !
MILKMAID
Coffee & Milk
J? __
a /%.
9f
ca
I
=d;
.V
si *
/ ;
jm
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Friday Island”: Thursday Island was
considerably puzzled when an old identity
hired a lugger and crew and with an air of
mystery set sail for an unknown destination.
A week later the expedition returned to port
with two hundredweight of what might have
been ambergris if it hadn’t turned out to be
hard paraffin-wax, evidently jettisoned from
some ship. Ralt water and friction against
a coral reef had effected the camouflage.
More than one get-rich-quick beachcomber
has mistaken jettisoned soap acted on by sea
wa.er for the precious ambergris.
“T. 0.1.”: Here’s an interesting relic—a
ticket in the lottery for the effects of the
Bank of Australia, drawn in the City
Theatre, Market-street, Sydney, on January
1. 1849. The first pr'ze was the Underbanlc
Estate, 8320 acres of land, with improve-
ments and 3700 head of cattle and 40 horses.
The ticket resembles a bank-note —-a very fine
bit of engraving bv 11. C. Jervis, of Pitt-
streeb —and was issued to “Dr. Thomas For-
ster or his nss'gns.” This Dr. Forster was
ex-surgeon of the 50th Regt. and father of
William Forster, afterwards Premier of
N. S. YY r ales. There is a legend that the win-
ner of the first prize was thrown from his
horse and k : lled while on his way to take
possession of his property.
“Araminta”: It is possible to amplify the
simple device of “Naming” (B. 18/12/T9 l
for beating the produce-profiteer by grow-
ing spuds in the back garden. YY'e live eight
miles from the G.P.O. The only purchased
items in our Boxing Day dinner were salt,
pepper, sugar, bread and flour. The roast
was a rabbit, trapped by Henry at a local
warren, stimcd with a seasoning containing
butter from Strawberry, home-grown sage,
thyme and marjoram, onions and lemon, and
cooked in a nest of our own potatoes. As
we were not visitin’ we had boiled onions as
a vegetaole, with white sauce (Strawberry
again), and we also had a double helping all
round of French beans (tenpence a lb. in
the shops) picked just before cooking. Apple-
pie was nexc. made from early- green trait
off the Five Crown by the wash-house, with
a “short” crust containing eggs from our
black orpingtons, and yet another offering
from the faithful Strawberry. The trifling
vacancy still remaining was provided for
with a dish of stewed logan-berries and cream
—and we couldn't eat any more after that,
though the first apricots of the season were
on the table. This sort of home-grown meal
is a common-enough occurrence in our house,
and there is certainly an immense difference
between such foodstuffs and the sad, stale,
rank, sour or putrefying provisions so often
offered for sale nowadays under the kindly
protection of the Pure Foods Act.
“YV.F.S.” : Re the Anzac tweed industry.
What about a few hundred thousand Aus-
tralians joining me. in a pledge to buy all
our woollens from the soldiers, as far as
they can supply them? I am prepared to
take and carry out the above pledge, and
believe there are plenty more who will do
the same if asked. And what about back-
ing this up with a co. formed of soldiers,
sailors and sympathisers, say, 1,500,000
shares at £1 each, to provide plant for wool-
washing, dressing and ipaking yarns and
weavings? An effort should be made to
enlist every soldier’s relative as a share-
holder and pledged customer. If the shares
were issued at. say, 2s. on application and
monthly calls, they should be got off quickly.
If lj) million shares can be placed and half
a million pledged customers secured in addi-
tion to outside customers, the thing could
be done properly, there would be healthy
work at good pay for the returned men, and
there would be cheaper and better clothes
for all. To do the thing properly, the wool
would have to be bought in the grease and
sold to the wearer in the finished state.
The movement might receive no sympathy
from merchants and importers, but it should
be supported by all who are worth calling
Australians.
* * . * *
Dear B.,—“Badila.” who lately wrote
about the waste of molasses, says it doesn’t
occur in Britain because they make alcohol
of it. YY’hy don’t we? Spirit-distilling is so
simple and cheap a job that nearly half the
Irish population in rural districts do it on
the sly. (Hooroo!) A large number of
ma ain folk in Scotland do the same, and
when I was travelling from Glen Innes to
Grafton (N.S.YY r .) in 1888 there were pla-
cards on every other tree almost offering
rewards for information about illicit stills.
I know I got the dope at every second pub.
I can drive my motor-car with methylated
spirit, and have done so, without any struc-
tural alterations. The English manufac-
turers offered it at 7d. a gallon in bond
before the war. It takes two gals, of it to
do the work of one of petrol—l 4 pence as
against 36 pence for petrol. Alcohol is
cooler, less dangerous and smokeless. YV e
could supply the world from our prickly-
near areas alone. YV by don t we. Is it
because of the excise? Or are we too igno-
rant and helpless? And, in either or any
case, why is it so?— H. Router.
“L.P.J.”: Hogan, a prosperous undertaker,
attended a recent reception to Archbishop
Cattaneo. He turned up in a brand-new
light sac suit. Amongst the black frock-
coats Hogan's light suit was naturally con-
spicuous. Indignant and pitying glances
were thrown at him, and at last a sombre
acquaintance approached him. "What the
devil did you come here like that for, man t
—you ought to have more sense.” Hogan
looked hurt. ' “Dammit.” he said, “didyer
want a man to come in his working clothes?”
“II.H.”: An industry which looked up dur-
ing the latter days of the war was confec-
tionery. In the ®no year 1917 there were 14
new factories (131 instead of 317) ; 696
more people were employed (5266 instead
of 4570) ; and £85.757 more wages were paid.
Returns for Victoria for 1918 are available,
and they show that
in the one. State
17 more factories
started. The fact
is that the impor-
tation of confec-
tionery was prohi-
bited, with the re-
sult that the people
got more work and
better lollies, and
ceased to send
£460,000 a year
out of the country.
Of course the un-
patriotic importing
gang wants the
embargo removed,
but it would be a
good thing to re-
new it temporarily
(say for 999
years), and try it
also on a few other
articles
Stirling
TAYLOR , Director
of Federal Bureau
of Commerce and
Industry.
“Charon” : Put Roebourne (W.A.) wir
less station among the white elephants of
the Navy. About four years ago. through a
break in the conductor, lightning “jumped”
to the wooden mast at this station, with the
result that it took fire, and to save it it
was chopped down. About 70ft. of the old
mast of 160 ft. now holds up some sort of an
aerial, nothing having been done about a new
mast. The site is wrong, anyhow. It is
said that it was “selected” in the first in-
stance by an officer who remained at Roe-
bourne only while the steamer was unloading
at the wharf, a matter of a few hours, and
who consequently had no time to make an
examination of the earth formation—a matter
of vital importance in wireless installations.
A Navy engineer subsequently found that tile
station had been built on a rock foundation,
with ironstone in all directions. The result
i.s that ships on this coast auring the cyclone
season are frequently unable to work Roe-
bourne though the distance be only 250
miles.
“Y.Z.”: Beads are very fashionable for
trimming just now, and my wife went
through Melbourne city the other day in
search of a loose assortment, but could get
nothing under half a crown an ounce. She
subsequently bought the same beads for a
penny an ounce in a suburban toyshop, but
in the latter instance the beads were put up
in little packets for the amusement of chil-
dren. The difference between Id. an ounce
for a child’s plaything and 2s. Gd. an ounce
for the same thing as material for trimming
implies ingenious profiteering somewhere.
* * * *
“Widgee”: Mention by “Gumleaf” (B.
18/12/19) of the successful cultivation of
the tea-shrub in Victoria brings to the sur-
face of my mind an ancient speculation about
the cotton-plant. When 1 was in Texas
and Oklahoma I saw large areas of cotton
in full yield. The prevailing rate for un-
skilled labor there was 1.50 dols. per day of
10 hours ; but in the cotton-fields 2 dols. and
more were earned by both white and black
.pickers, with the advantage in favor of the
ivhite, in spite of the liberal offerings of
colored labor. Incidentally, why is cotton
grown only in the tropic North of Australia,
or why is it thought that only that region
is suitable, seeing that the climate of Texas
and Oklahoma is much more rigorous ti»an
that of Victoria, with a winter bringing snow
and all manner of weather-horrors we don’t
experience here? If somebody will tell me
where ,to buy the seeds, I shall be glad to
work out in Victoria an answer for myself.
* * * *
A warning from the Bank of New
Zealand’s acting-chairman, J. 11. Upton
All the primary industries are thriving, and prices
for products are g00d.... One result of our pros-
perity is an accentuated upward movement in the
price of land. In some districts land is changing
hands at prices that immediately before the war
would have been regarded as reckless... .Clearly,
some agriculturists and pastoralists are basing their
calculations on a continuance of the present high
prices for produce, or a possible further improve-
ment therein. Operators should no.t close their eyes
to the possibility, or even the probability, of a
fall, and should so restrict their liabilities that they
will not be seriously hampered should a fall in
prices and a consequent shrinkage in land values
take place.
* * * *
The Rand is having its labor troubles,
too. Lately the white miners dropped in a
demand for a 40-hour week, substantial in-
creases in wages, time and a half for over-
time and double rates after midnight, twice
as many holidays, and a few other things.
When the mine-owners have placated the
white workers, no doubt the blacks and
browns will also ask for something extra, for
thev. nre no longer the tractable crowd they
used to be.
MY ORCHARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Apples are clear.” —Market report.
Window of a fruiterer’s facing on the street
YY ith a mound of apples, apples firm and sweet;
In the shade a moment I am fain to stop —-
Yi hat will Fancy give me with the apple crop?
Just an apple orchard! Where the white moths pass,
Drowsy with the Spring wind in October grass;
Just a magpie carolling a welcome to the morn,
Past the bright scythe swishing where the grass is
shorn.
I will pay no taxes on my orchard land ;
1 will heed no seasons, for at my command,
Rising from blue distance to the sunny street,
Apple boughs are conjured with their fruit complete.
Fancies throng the orchard, cobwebbed subtle things,
And Romance is carried on a magpie’s wings;
Something of these lingered when the case was
stueke d
Though thej paid no freightage on the dream they
packed.
Rightly are you burdened with your wizard sheaves,
YY'ind along the orchard, fluttering the leaves!
Everything serves Fancy—sun and wind and dew
And the apple branches that in Dreamland grew.
Smuggled on the railway, carried down the street
By a pixie porter, rapid and discreet!
At the fruiterer’s counter, though his price be high,
I’ve an apple orchard with the fruit I buy!
QUEEKSLAND.
M. FORREST.


It is the fashion among certain sections
of the community to sneer at Proprietary
Medicines, but in many cases there
is considerable self-interest behind the
sneer. I n spite of this attempt to discredit
all Proprietary Medicines, thousands of people are using, for
instance, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and get just the
results they are looking for; and no amount of sneering and
attempts to discredit them can alter the opinion of people
who know by experience that they are using a useful and
effective medicine, and at a fraction of what it would cost to
be running to a doctor or chemist. These pills are based on
a sound formula and produced by men of experience. There
is nothing known about pills that they do not know, there is
no ingredient that is known to be effective for the Liver, for
aiding Digestion and purifying the Blood that they do not
know. It is their business to know. They not only know
these ingredients, but they know how to compound them so
as to secure the highest efficacy. Just as any cake, omelet, or any article
of food can be hopelessly spoiled because the cook is incompetent, and even
when given the best materials absolutely fails to make an eatable article,
when another cook, using the same materials, accomplishes a result that is
a delight. So it is in compounding Drugs, only even to a greater degree.
The ingredients used in producing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are of
the highest standard, and they are selected to secure the best results, and
in proportions to doubly secure this. Some people are always sceptical
about a Proprietary Medicine, but does it not stand to reason that it
costs as much for machinery and labor to produce a poor pill as a
good one? In one case satisfaction is given because the article
is good, and in the other dissatisfaction because it is valueless.
OOT PILLS
are a good Pill in every sense of the word, a fact that is abundantly proved by the thousands who continue to use
them year after year as their sole remedy for all the little ills of Life. They are prepared under the best possible
conditions, and there is no better Pill made in this.or any other country for Biliousness, Constipation, Liver and
Kidney Troubles, etc. The care taken in the production of these Pills is illustrated by the manner in which they
are packed. Instead of being put up in cheap wooden boxes—that absorb poisonous and other substances—they are
packed in glass bottles, at a cost of five or six times that of wooden boxes. The extra cost is more than made up in
the satisfaction of knowing that the Pills reach the public just as they left the laboratory, unaffected by moisture or
climatic changes, and free from contamination by contact with foreign matter. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
purely vegetable sugar-coated medicinal preparation, carefully compounded by experts, and are manufactured on the
premises under the direct supervision of the Proprietors.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA, BY AUSTRALIANS, FOR AUSTRALIANS.


CAN’T BEAT COCOANUT
OIL FOR HAIR WASH.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsiul make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And best of all this colinated cocoanut oil
loaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not
expensive— a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
Girls! Women! Give this a Corner on your Dressing-
table. Never Let a Corn Ache Again!
Like a Flash! Few Drops Stop Corns Throbbing,
Then Corns and Callouses Wither Up, Loosen
and Lift Out Like a Cork—Painlessly!
XT’s.
|4
THE Australian people owe a
debt of gratitude to the wizard
in chemistry who formulated the
new ether discovery named
Ifrozol-Ice.
Little phials of this
wonder liquid are now
obtainable from any chem-
ist for a few pence. You
merely apply a few drops
of this Frozol-Ice on a ten-
der, aching corn or tough-
ened callous. Right away all
soreness vanishes, and soon you see the
corn or callous that loose and withered
that it lifts out with the Angers, like a
cork. Not a twinge of pain or even irritation
is felt when using Frozol-Ice, or afterwards.
No soreness, no inflammation of surrounding
healthy flesh or skin.
Only a few pence now gives one freedom
from all and each soft corn, hard corn, corn
between the toes, likewise tender callouses on
bottom of the feet. Every Australian who
tries Frozol-Ice sings its praises, for it
honestly does not hurt one wee bit.
Step' in at your chemist’s to-night and in-
sist on having a small phial of Frozol-Ice,
in the green-printed carton. Stand on “your
dig.” and refuse spurious imitations of this
great compound.
If Favorite Foods
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods you like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or sodawater after
every meal. Instead, just make a practice of
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after eating.
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not a
laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diges-
tion. It can be obtained at any well-stocked
chemist’s shop. Be sure to get Salix Magnesia.
Do not use other forms of magnesia for this
purpose.
The Neuve Eglise Drag-hounds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHORTLY after siege warfare developed
on the Western Front the world of
sport was stirred by the announcement
that a famous English cavalry regiment was
hunting a pack of beagles in France. ‘‘Dear,
mad fellows!” said the Empire, smiling
through its tears. “As though they aren’t get-
i:;g enough excitement in the trenches!” The
whole army was believed to be in the trenches
in those days—Base Records, G.H.Q., Pay
officers, cavalry and all. In point of fact
the beaglers were in a pleasant, though dull,
French village, 25 miles from the nearest
reserve trench. Thrice a day the regiment
paraded, and watered, fed and groomed the
horses. For the rest the life was one of
leisure. The hounds ran over country as
safe as that around Eton, where their master
had learnt the art of beagling as a boy.
The distinction of attempting to hunt in
the face of the enemy rests not with the
English, but with the Australians: to par-
ticularise, with the Nth F.A. Brigade. The
enterprise represented difficulty after diffi-
culty, resolutely faced and overcome until
But to the narrative!
The brigade was in the line on the Mes-
sines side of the Ypres sector; and it was
the early part of 1918. The idea originated
with the youthful major of the Mth Bat-
tery. He hud three horses eating their heads
off at the waggon lines, and all were jumpers.
His subalterns also had unemployed horses;
and during the boredom of dugout exist-
ence argument ran high as to their various
merits, more particularly on those occasions
when a case of whisky arrived. It was on
such a night of celebration that the Major
turned suddenly upon his trusted henchman
William Buntte and said: "Send for your
groom to-morrow morning, ride back to the
waggon lines, and lay out the course. The
W.O. will detail you the men—take as many
as you like.”
“But” —began Buntte.
“None of your d —d ‘buts’ or ‘whys.’ You
just do it. A regular stiff course suitable
for a drag—and take good care it’s difficult,
big” —and the Major waved his hand in a
spacious manner suggesting vastness. "My
second horse, Spavins, won a jumping prize
when he was younger. Blobbs, you cun do
his duties.” (A pained start from Blobbs.)
“O. Pip first thing to-morrow, and then you
take his turn as F. 0.0.” (Further acute
spasm.) "Your job will come later on. I
mean you to collect the hounds.” Followed
details of ways and means which it were
profitless to set down here.
Buntte was away by daybreak, and there-
after he w r as heard of only through the voice
of rumor. His task, it appeared, was being
well and truly done. All wire had been re-
moved from the hedges belonging to a
farmer’, one of whose stables was part of the
battery’s horse-lines. A wall made of
sandbags had been erected in one field; a
substantial “logs” (of facines) in another;
and there was a water-jump, with wings
made from felled trees and bushes, calcu-
lated to stop a champion. News of all these
things reached the gunpits ; also allegations
not only that Buntte was riding all the
horses he could get hold of over the newly-
prepared country every day, but that the
drivers ~-ere doing likewise. To every de-
mand by the Major that he should return at
once to the pits there came the same reply—•
his job was not finished. The Major’s patience
gave out. “Tell Mr. Buntte,” so ran his
message to the battery captain, “that if he
isn’t back here by to-morrow morning he
may consider himself under arrest.”
Buntte turned up in time for breakfast.
There was a shifty look about him. He
had a large gash in his forehead; one eye
was black; and his left hand was bandaged.
“Had a bit of a fall,” he explained lightly.
“Nothing to speak of—nothing at all.” It
was evident that he wished to pass the
matter over. But the Major, morose at the
thought of what he had missed, was not to
be denied. “A bit nf a fall!” he repeated
offensively; “dammit, you look as if you’d
had fifty. This comes of giving such a
selfish swine as you a nice soft
job. What the devil do you mean by riding
over the course at all? Who told you you
could? Did I? Certainly not! Then why
me hell did you do it?”
Worn out with indignation and overwork
—Blobbs having proved almost entirely use-
less as a henchman —the Major went to sleep.
Buntte turned to the other subalterns. “An
awful thing’s _ happened,” he said. “I’ve
lost his horse.” There was no comment to
be made on so stunning an intimation. “Yes,”
proceeded Buntte, “I’ve lost old Spavins.
Cod knows what he’ll do when he finds out!
It happened two days ago. I’d been giving
the brute a fly over some of the fences be-
fore riding him into Bailleul (by the way,
he’s a rotten jumper; he fell at the logs
and then ran down one of the wings at the
water —absolutely rotten!) —well, as I was
saying, I rode him into Bailleul and tied
him up. Had a couple of drinks. Came
out. Gone! I’ve got half the drivers out
looking for him. But what chance is there ?
None. I wish I’d never seen the d —d horse.
The Major was in a better humor when
he awoke. “BJobbs,” he said genially,
‘‘you’re an utter ass as a gunner, but as
a dog-stealer I fancy I can rely on you. I want
you to do this. Go back to the waggon lines
and get the saddler-sergeant to make you a
few dog-collars. Then get round the coun-
try and pick up any likely-looking animals
you see that, might do for hounds. They
won’t need to have a very great scent. The
herrings and aniseed and stuff that I’m get-
ting from Blighty—well, any damn thing
could smell ’em. We’ll need about a dozen.
There must be plenty about —in Dranoutre
and Kemmel and places like that; if not,
the only thing is to go further back. What
you’ve got to do is get ’em.”
The eyes of Blobbs gleamed. It was a
job after his own heart. There was no
room to spring smartly to attention and
salute, or he would have done so, such was
his gratitude. Instead he hurriedly packed
his haversack and was soon on his way to
the Neuve Eglise road and comparative
safety.
It was on that very road the next day
that an unbelievable experience befel the
Major. He was walking back with Buntte
from a visit to the C.O. at the forward head-
quarters of the brigade when he saw ap-
proaching at a liand-gallop a horse which
he would have known in a thousand. It
was Spavins! A First Division corporal
(F.A.) was riding him, and he looked as
if lie had been leading a strenuous life.
“Stop!” roared the Major, holding out
his arms. “Get off that horse! Wodderyer
mean by it?”
The corporal got off.
“Where did you get him?” howled the
Major, despairingly examining Spavins’s
abraded knees and swollen fetlock-joints.
“Well,” replied the corporal, “there’s no
use saying one thing an’ meaning another.
I suppose it’s going to cost me me stripes.
1 found ’im.”
“Where?” asked the Major; adding, as
an afterthought, “blast you!”
“Behind the church in Bailleul.”
“When?”
“Sattiday afternoon.”
“Three days ago! You’re ly— Mr.
Buntte, was this horse missing when you
left the waggon lines yesterday?”
“To tell you the truth, sir, I did hear
some rumor”
“Rumor ! Heard a rumor ! My horse lost
for three days and there’s only a rumor
about it! Get that damn corporal’s name
and unit and wait here with the horse. I’ll
send someone from the pits to take him
back to the waggon lines.”
Two hours later Buntte arrived at the
pits. He had a' furtive cup of tea at the
cook-house, and as furtively turned in. The
Major was “working out a stunt” in the hole
in the earth which was the officers’ mess;
and though the whisky was also there Buntte
judged it better to leave both undisturbed.
His caution was more than rewarded. With
the rations, which came up at 9.30 p.m.,
arrived an appalling story. The Belgian
farmer, over whose property the best of
the drag course ran, had done a dastardly
thing. He had arisen in the night and de-
stroyed all the fences. The wall —a matter
of about 1000 sandbags—;had been thrown
into the water-jump; the hedges had been
re-wired ; the faeines —brand-new from Ord-
nance, which had issued them under the
false impression that they were to be used
for road-making—were gone. They were
traced easily by the wheel-tracks of a heavy
dray to the farmer’s back yard. Not only
was the whole of Buntte’s labor set at
naught, and the prospect of a season’s hunt-
ing reduced to an outside place in the bet-
ting, but furthermore the farmer had handed
the battery captain a bill for 700 francs
representing damages to fields, trees and
hedges.
At the earliest possible hour next morn-
ing the Major handed over to the Captain
and hastened to the waggon lines. The
waggon-lines mess and sleeping-place was
a Nissen hut. As the Major pushed the
door open a furious barking assailed him,
and a number of dogs sprang at him, but
were checked by the pieces of rope to which
they were attached. Through the over-
powering atmosphere advanced Blobbs tow-
ing a reluctant dog of the solid type which
the Flanders peasants use for drawing carts.
“Got him last night,” said Blobbs exult-
tantly. “That makes nine.”
“Why the devil do you keep them in here?”
said the Major sourly. “The place stinks.
It’s more like a monkey-house than”
“Dammit!” expostulated Blobbs. “Where
else can I keep them? There’s a regular hue
and cry amongst the farmers, and if I
had tied them up anywhere outside they’d
have been seen at once. One gets used to
the smell after a while ; and, of course, your
stretcher is nearest the door. That’s yours
with the two terriers tied to it—if they are
terriers.” He gazed doubtfully at a couple
of mangy nondescripts which might have
been part poodle, part Skye and part Pom.
“I’m worried about the bill sent in by
this infernal farmer,” said the Major.
“Where’s Byles?”
Byles knew the local peasants fairly well,
and he could speak their uncouth patois
sufficiently to make himself understood. He
listened to the story of the farmer and his
outrageous conduct, and then said: “The
old swine needs to be dealt with firmly—
though at the same time justly. Leave him
to me. I will go and see him to-morrow
morning.”
The next day Byles called on the farmer,
taking with him, to supply moral support,
the Q.M.S., a bombardier and his batman.
The visitors were received by the his
wife and several of their employees, in the
kitchen. The sergeant preceded Byles,
called the bombardier and the batman to
attention, and saluted. Byles directed his
retinue to stand easy, and turning to the
farmer said: “I have a painful duty to per-
form. I must serve on you this warrant.”
He then took from the ready hand of the
Q.M.S. an A.I.F. will form. In one of the
corners was some red tape stuck on with
green sealing-wax which had been stamped
with an identification disc. “From the Aus-
tralian Chief of Justice,” he said proffering
it. The farmer shrank back as though the
document had been a firing-party. His wife
emitted a lugubrious cry. “You have been
guilty of a serious military offence,” said
Byles—“interfering with war material neces-
sary to sustain the morale and courage of
the soldiers. For which the usual penalty
is death. Read the claim for damages, on
the back of the warrant, made against you
by the Government of Australia.”
In a voice faint with panic the farmer
read: —•
DEGATS COMMIS PAR LE FERMIER JULES
LEBON SUR LES ARTICLES SOUSDITS APPAR-
TENANT AU GOUVERNEMENT D’AUSTRALIE.
Chiffre d’Articles Detruits.
(1) a 1150 sacs.
(2) a 180 facines de bois.
(3) a 18,000 kilos sable.
(4) au morale des soldats Australiens qui se
trouvaient epouvantCs car le perte de dit materiel de
guerre.
VALEUR ESTIME.
5000 Francs.
“Monsieur!” cried the farmer passionately.
“It is ruin! Take my farm! Destroy me if
you will, for I can never pay”; and he fell
sobbing into the arms of his wife. Byles
appeared lost in thought.
"There may be an avenue of escape,” he
said. “How many workers can you assemble
to re-fill the sandbags, replace the facines,
and make the whole Army horse-exercising
ground as it was before your illegal raid?”
“My officer!” said the farmer, hopefully,
drying his eyes on his wife’s dress. “The
staff of my farm is ready at this moment
for the patriotic work.”
“Well, get busy straight away,” said
Byles.
He might have said more; a few words
of salutary admonition, maybe; but at that
moment a familiar high-pitched whine was
heard, followed by a sound in the road out-
side as of a motor-car falling into a con-
servatory. It was the first shell* so far as
that area was concerned, of the Ilun's
Spring offensive.
For four days the farmer and his family
toiled, and at the end of that time the
country over which it was proposed to hunt
was ready. The shelling continued, grow-
ing daily more severe. The Adjutant nearly
drove the Major mad by suggesting that he
should shift his waggon lines. The her-
rings and aniseed arrived. The Major sent
word from the pits that he would be down
to make final arrangements in four days.
Simultaneously three of the dogs gnawed
through their ropes and escaped. Blobbs
was blasphemously ordered to make up the
required number without delay. In due
course he complied. The Major issued in-
vitations to horse-lovers in the Brigade—?
and out of it. He calculated that “the field,
on the great day, should number at least 50.”
Then a 5.9 landed near the “logs” and dis-
tributed them all over the field. The next
day Byles brought down the Captain’s mare,
Jane, at the wall and broke her neck. It
was impossible to hide the tragedy from the
Colonel. He issued a brigade order that in
future no horse was to be jumped, galloped
or even cantered without express permission
from IT.Q. “Blast the Colonel!” said the
Major, and fixed the opening meet for that
dav week.
The rendezvous was crowded fully an hour
before the stipulated time on the great day.
There was Buntte on his aged horse, Hero,
whose calloused knees bespoke years of
timber-rapping in Australia which the
animal had left in 1914. Both the Major’s
horses were present: he proposed to negoti-
ate the first part of the journey on his
favorite, Spavins. There were some R.H.A.
officers, supercilious of aspect, and yet
plainly interested, if not astounded. In a
corner of the field Blobbs, assisted by half
a dozen drivers and an n.c.0., wrestled with
a herd of dogs. His groom walked his horse
up and down in readiness for the throw-off.
Byles, wffio was to lay the drag, took the
aniseed-bag from the Q.M.S. and prepared to
mount. And every eight minutes a shell
wailed overhead and fell with a grunt near
Crucifix Corner.
“Off with you, Byles!” cried the Major;
and trailing his disgusting burden in his
wake the officer disappeared over the first
fence.
And now the solemn moment of the dav
annroaclied. Byles was seen to have sur
mounted the wall, and to have either iumned
cr swum me water. Going well within him-
self he crossed the hedge on the crest of the
hill, and disappeared. Ilis 10 minutes “la\v’ ;
v/as up. The moment had come to “lay on”
the hounds. “Bring them up, Blobbs mv
boy,” shouted the Major joyously. Tur-
moil followed; in the midst of which the
guests mounted, and thirty or forty drivers
who had been keeping in the background
edged forward on gun-horses. There was
but one thing' for a sportsman to do, and
the Major did it. Blind to their unauthor-
ised presence he concentrated his attention
on the efforts of Blobbs and his party to
drag the hounds to where the scent began.
“Now,” said the Major tensely to Blobbs,
“you know what to do. The second they
get on the trail cast ’em off. Be ready to
undo their collars at a moment’s notice.
As soon as you hear them bay, let go! And
gentlemen”—to the field—“give them room!
Don’t jump on the hounds!” He might
have been referring to the Belvoir instead
of to a disorderly rabble of Belgian mon-
grels. But such was the Major’s person-
ality there seemed nothing incongruous about
his attitude. “Give them room. Don’t
jump on the hounds!” repeated the R.H.A.
officers earnestly. One actually addressed
them as “my little beauties,” and later
ejaculated “Yoicks!”
Nearer and nearer they were dragged to
the. objective. The horsemen settled down in
their saddles, and half-unconsciously began
to sidle in the direction of the first fence.
The hounds remained silent, except for here
and there an angry yelp.
“They’re on it!” cried Blobbs.
“Well, let ’em go, damyer!” roared the
Major.
“Bet ’em go, yer blanky goat!” shouted a
driver, forgetting himself.
“Tally-ho!” retnarked one of the R.H.A.
officers mildly, as the hawsers were cast off
and Blobbs and his assistants fell back and
raced for their mounts.
At this stage there occurred one of the
most painful events in the history of the
chase. The hounds spread out fan-wise, and,
turning their tails upon the trail, ran slowly
in the direction of their different homes. It
seemed that the function was ruined.
The Major, seeking a vent for the fury
which boiled within him, summoned Blobbs.
“What the hell do you mean by it?” he
queried angrily, “Letting ’em go like that,
so that you could get back to your horse!
Messed up the whole show. That’s
what you’ve done. Get straight off that
horse and go back to the lines.”
The countenance of Blobbs expressed
misery blended with desperation.
“I’m damned if I do,” he said.
“Wha-at!”
“It’s not a military order.”
“You go straight hack to the lines!”
“I won’t. You’ve got no right to be here
yourself. I’ve been looking forward to to-
day for weeks, and I did my best with the
damned dogs; you know I did. I’m going
after Byles now, dogs or no dogs. Go to
blazes!”
It was an inspiration. As Blobbs dug his
spurs into his horse’s ribs GO or 70 others
did likewise. With a thunderous roar the
cavalcade bore down on, and totally obliter-
ated, the first hedge. Away in front, going
as straight as the shell-holes would permit,
rode the Major. Close behind came an
R.11.A. officer with difficulty controlling
a scandalised 300-guinea hunter. To a flank
were three Diggers riding gallery finishes on
“light draughts.” In line with them, shout-
ing for very joy of life, rode Blobbs. Half
the field fell at the bags, remounted fren-
ziedly, and helped to fill up the water-
jump. The hedge on the hill was blotted
out of existence.
As the last batch fled out of sight the
Colonel, followed by the Adjutant, walked
on to the field where the meet had taken
place and scanned with his glasses the de-
vastation before him.
“As good a day as ever I had in my life,”
remarked the Major 40 minutes later to a
small gathering of survivors.
“Topping!” said the R.11.A. representa-
tive.
“A bonzer,” agreed No. SOTO, Driver
Smith, H. W., in the background.
“Sorry to interrupt, Major,” interposed
the Adjutant, who had ridden up during the
conversation, “but the C.O. wants you at
once.”
“Where is he?”
“In your mess. A complaint has been
lodged by a number of peasants that one
of your subalterns has been stealing their
dogs. They claim, first and last, for about
eighteen.”
“Doomed!” said the Major, and followed
limply in the direction of his fate.
However, it was not so. That night the
Australian Army got orders to hasten to the
Somme and get in front of Amiens. The
Brigade moved at daybreak next morning.
In the lurid days that followed the C.O.
found the excuse which he badly wanted
to bury the episode in oblivion.
J.B.D.


ension
a mmmmm
<s&l
■■■■■■Hl
SSnSnanißaSS
•piißi
' i?
• •
-
£
m
>£y
m
■tMk
' •;
;
I
■■
fee
111
The R. THOMAS & SONS COMPANY manufacture
INSULATORS for all classes of transmission line service
and. for all industrial applications.
Before shipment their products are completely tested by the
most modern insulator-testing equipment procurable, thus
ensuring satisfactory operation.
Your requirements for every class of Insulator will be promptly
attended to by
▲
m
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
©
Cr. oY Queen 1? Little Collins .Sts
MELBOURNE
AGENTS IN ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Missing Friends.
xF WILLIAM lIENRY DANIELS, son of late Isaac
I Daniels, of Northern Territory, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, will communicate with Mr. D.
ROBERTS, Solicitor, Darwin, or CHAMBERS, McNAB
& McNAB, Solicitors, 30 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
something to his advantage will be learnt.
U
Jmi
K
y
-$e ‘/v'epared-
A
LAGER
( s?<p l/our Gue&fs
%Jj// Skppreciaie
BREWED FROH
PURE HALTS) HOPS'ONLy
*2*L
STRENGTH AND ENERGY
CREATED BY PHOSPHATE.
NO TASK TOO HARD; NO STRAIN
TOO GREAT.
There is no longer any reason why the-
nervous, hesitant man or woman should envy
those who are strong, resourceful and calm,
for according to an eminent specialist such
strength is within the easy reach of all who
desire it. Men and women are strong, men-
tally and physically in proportion to the
strength of their nerves, and nerves are
strong or weak according to the amount of
phosphate they absorb. Ordinarily the
nerves derive phosphate from digested food,
but owing to faulty metabolism or to abnor-
mal strain, the phosphate thus taken up often
proves insufficient, and in consequence the
nerves become weak and exhausted. To
remedy such a condition it is necessary that
the nerves should be provided with more
phosphate, and the use of the concentrated
bitro-phosphate which most chemists now
stock in the form of 5-grain compressed tab-
lets is highly recommended. Phosphate in
this form is rapidly absorbed, and a de-
cided improvement in the general health is
soon noticeable. Nerves become steady and
strong, and the brain acts quickly and
clearly. Eyes become bright, and the cheeks
glow' with healthy color. No task seems
too hard; no strain too great. Abundant
energy displaces lassitude, and great strength
reigns in the place of weakness. — Advt,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .... “The Bing Bovs on Broadwav”
Criterion “Lightnin" ”
Palace “The Little Dainozel”
Tivoli “As You Were”
Hoyt s Moving Pictures
onion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Sleeping Beauty"
Royal “Theodore and Co.”
King’s “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli “Oddments”
Hoyt's De Luxe & l.\. Ei .u Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciaiiium Dancing
John D. O’Hara continues to give packed
houses at Sydney Criterion his famous por-
trayal of the Beloved Inebriate. A distress-
ing outcome of his artistry is the fact,
vouched for in Rechabite circles, that many
elderly persons who have hitherto been
abstainers are taking to drink in order to
become popular. Small wonder that one of
the first moves in the approaching Prohi-
bition Campaign is to be the extermination of
John I). Me anwliile his success is colossal.
These are the dead-dog days, with the
humidity hovering anywhere between 70 and
90 deg. and all Sydney stewing gently. But
the weather can’t keep people out of the
theatres, and Her Majesty’s gets its share
for “The Bing Boys on Broadway.”
The restaurant opened by “The Little
Damozel” at Sydney Palace draws several
hundred supper customers every evening.
The new I’olini comedy is going to have a
brisk season.
At the Tivoli (Sydney) Bert Clarke keens
on shooting himself backward through the
ages with the patent pills presented to him
by the President of the Upper House, or
whoever the aged man in the bedgown is.
Clarke’s variegated adventures with the tarts
of history constitute “As You Were.”
In “The Hoodlum” Mary Pickford goes
with her dad to the slums in search of atmo-
sphere. They get it. Mary becomes one
with the boys of the alley while the million-
aire parent curls with horror. Plenty of
laughs, and, if you aren’t particular about
the thread of the story breaking now and
then, lots of entertainment. This is at Syd-
ney Crystal Palace and Lyceum. Olive
Thomas does an amateur vamp at the Strand,
but as the man she tries to lure is from the
Emerald Isle and knows women, the game
falls flat. The latest in bathing costumes
fill in the gaps in “Upstairs and Down.” The
Globe and Empire have the new Griffith war
story, “The Great Love.” Besides the love
yarn there is a wonderfully realistic air-raid
on London, and in some flashes the stately
peeresses of England swab out hospitals.
The cinema is a wonderful invention. In
“The Man Hunter” Louise Lovely is the
beauteous Sydney maid for whom William
Farnum foregoes his vengeance on the man
who has wronged him; and fascinating Viola
Dana has the time of her life as "Some
Bride” at the Lyric.
After nearly five weeks’ run at Melbourne
King’s, “Mother Llubbard” still draws c.un-
“The Little Damozel ,”
at Sydney Palace.
Captain Partington
(Victor Fitzherbert )
calls for his letters.
fortable houses on
the “off” nights
and at matinees
a n d overflowing
ones on Saturdays.
In fact, increasing
popularity is noted,
owing, it may be,
to the seductive-
ne s s of certain
personalities. No
doubt Da m e
Lupino’s red nose
and set of incorn-
plete husbands
lure a certain num-
ber of young people
from the parks and
prayer meetings.
Probably even a
larger section fine
itself the price of
a ticket just to
see the glad and
grimacing Cannot
commit the usual
riotous behavior.
At Melbourne
Majesty’s “The
Sleeping Beauty” is
still loitering along
to the customary
finale of Girl tramp-
ing towards an un-
certain objective on a revolving merry-go-
round. Every year the panto, producer con-
demns the shapely extras to much futile
movement, but the genius who invented this
year’s march must have taken a diploma for
aimless activity. Furthermore, he doubles
his offence by labelling the foolishness a Jazz
Palace, though the spirit of Jazz is not in it,
nor in the divinities and the decorum thereof.
It is just superfluous trimming to the com-
pany’s brief and solemn “Good Xight.”
The Hon. Sapphire Blissett has once more
lost her age and changed her personality in
“Theodore and Co.” at Melbourne Royal.
Originally matured and sparkling in the
hands of Flo Young, and later deprived by
Jessie Caffyn of her previous glitter and
glamor, the Hon. Sapphire (more probably
Sapphira) has since had her reputation
washed and ironed by a promising novice,
Zoe Wenke. The only fault with Zoe is
that she seems much too artless to be about
alone with the Right Hon. George Wye, but
in other respects she is distinctly satisfac-
tory. The same compliment, however, can-
not be paid to Oliver Peacock, who lias re-
placed the sick Sidney Stirling in the role
of Duke of Shetland.
Barring two or three frivolous patches,
“Oddments” continues to be no laughing mat-
ter at Melbourne Tivoli. Humor is at a
discount in several scenes, and more parti-
cularly in the newlyweds’ squabble. Therein
George Gee is such an insipid item on the
menu that one almost utters an involuntary
cry for mustard. Also, despite its pretence
of revelry and wickedness, the sketch that
introduces Workman's Puritan auntie to the
seven deadly vices is deeply sup eted of
having been compiled by a Presbyterian elder
of 87. On the other hand, the little
scene that enables Workman and Nolle
Fleming to discover the gaiety of rations pro-
vokes a feeling of contentment, and there is
a smile in the education of Billy Rego, in
which the comedian achieves exceptional pro-
minence with his puny stature grotesquely
emphasised by a velvet suit.
Neurasthenic sufferers will find a suitable
“Cinderella ,” at Syd-
ney Grand Opera
House.
Boronia, one of the
ugly sisters (Gaddy
Franks).
subject in “The
Experimental Mar-
riage” at Mel-
bou r n e Majestic
this week. A light
sentimental comedy,
with a few tear-
drops by Constance
Talma d g e, just
soothes tli e mind
without disturbing
the senses, like a
bit of Jane Austen
taken slowly with
warm gruel. People
with a palate for
adventure will feed
on the wild scenes
of the Vitngraph
feat ur e, “T h e
Wolf,” a, story of
C a n a d i an, back-
woods where homi-
cidal energy gives a
zest to Pleasant
Sunday Afternoons.
At Hoyt’s there is
another deluge of
mad argument and
primitive emotion,
in “When a Man
Sees Red.” William
Farnum is the re-
vengeful hero with
a murdered sister
in his thoughts,
and he soon shows
that he hasn’t lost
his capacity to make a coroner work over-
time. Alice Taylor appears prominently in
an English film, “The Grand Babylon Hotel,”
whilst among the scream subjects is “The
Yellow Dog-Catcher,” which is alleged to
have made the Prince of Wales cavort like
a Bank-holiday ’Arry.
The woman author has been much in evi-
dence in Adelaide shows of late. Kate
Howarde produced her own " ’Possum Pad-
dock” at the Exhibition, and Adrienne Ray
ended her short season at the Royal with
“Coming Back,” written by herself. The
idea is the very feminine one of a domestic
drudge in England, rescued by a quiet,
strong man who takes her to Africa as his
wife-in-name-only, and finally makes the
surprising discovery that they are in love
with each other; but the treatment in detail
is new and welcome. The Royal has now
gone back contentedly to pictures. In that
line also Mary Pickford repeats her West’s
success at the Pav. in “The Hoodlums”;
Wondergraph turns on Henry Walthall, the
Lone Wolf, to show how his against-the-law
talents were turned to good in war-time;
and Clara Young, at West’s, revels in
“Cheating Cheaters,” which is the Yank
crook-drama pushed just about as far as it
will go. The Majestic has a bright variety
bill: Dood.v and Miss'*Wright, eccentric and
very popular; Herd juggling, Barraclough
(and others) singing. Open-air shows are
brisk. Victor Prince and a few friends
from the recent Tivoli pantomime have
joined in with the crowd already at Austral
Gardens; and across the road, behind the
Exhibition, a new co., mostly kiddies, is just
getting to work.
H. B. Irving’s estate was worth nearly
£38,000. Many better actors have left much
less.
Reginald De Koven, whose “Robin Hood”
“The Sleeping
Beauty ,” at Her
Majesty's Melbourne.
Marriott Edgar as
Mrs. Spoopendyke
(The Dame).
light opera was
performed in Aus-
t r a 1 i a when
middle-aged play-
goers were youths,
and whose draw-
ing-room ba 11 ad,
“Oh. Promise Me.”
is still a boarding-
house favorite, has
just died in his
native America.
He turned out
numerous scores
and yet found
time to conduct the
\\ ashington Sym-
phony Orchestra
between times.
“C. Oc k n ey” :
Hugh Buckler, one
time of the Little
Theatre, Sydney,
having concluded
his engagement at
Old Drury, has hit
London with a new
club: he has
started the Junior
Savage, to be run
on similar lines to
the long-estab-
lished Eccentric
and the even older
Savage, for those
connected with and
interested in the
stage. Buckler’s
bantling has
started off well,
and it looks as if
its promoter ha s
got a steady job.
with mumming as
a side-line.
“S.S.”: Has the
war demolished all
the good acrobatic
turns? Once no
panto, was com-
plete without one outstanding act of this
kind, and pantos served to introduce many
very popular teams to Australia; hut this
year, with little or no vaudeville to meet
the undoubted demand, the pantos are supply-
ing nothing of the kind. The success of such
features in the past must have left managers
keen for the goods, so we must assume
either that such turns were “made in Ger-
many,’' or that the ground and lofty tum-
blers and variety wonder workers of the
sort have been knocked to pieces by Hun
guns.
“Glen Huntly” : I never cease to marvel
at the staggering originality of those in
control of the amusement industry. A fea-
ture of one of, the two current Melbourne
pantos which opened on the same night is
a scene in which the subtle humor of white-
wash applied to the human physiognomy is
exploited. The rival management had its
own methods of provoking mirth, but nothing
which challenged direct comparison with the
whitewash riot, so it retired to a quiet place
and plunged into deep thought. After the
intellectual strain had lasted a couple of
weeks it introduced into its show a new
scene in which vast quantities of raspberry
jam are hurled about and plastered upon
the faces of the comedians, so it is now preen-
ing itself upon having shown the rival crowd
that originality is not the exclusive posses-
sion of any one management.
“Ox” : I suggest the possibility of success-
fully reviving “The Streets of New York,”
“Under the Gaslight” and “After Dark.”
They had more meat to the minute than
modern bellowdrama has to the act. Wm.
Brady, of America, and Dion Boucicault, of
London, quarrelled over the latter two. both
claiming originality for the similar railway
scenes which occur. The Courts never
settled the matter. Boucieault’s son, by the
way, was killed in a real railway accident.
James Carden, the Irish-American, played
“The Streets of New York” in Australia
first. Many reckoned that the big fire scene
which occurs in the production was the cause
of the burning down of the Melbourne Royal
during the run of the piece. “Under the
Gaslight” was played some years before by
W. G. Carey, who was both actor and jour-
nalist, and wrote a speedy shorthand. With
him was associated the most versatile man
of his day. Ignatius lola Fotheringham
Keogh, of whom it was said he would tackle
anything actable from “Hamlet” to “The
Limerick Boy.”
“Norbell” : Mention is made by “Old Pro”
(B. 8/1/20) of the use which alleged com-
edians make of soapsuds to whitewash their
victims in pantomimes. It has other uses.
When the hero gallops 50 miles and dashes
on to save the heroine, his foaming steed is
lathered with soapsuds. A conscientious
and eminently unsuccessful mummer who
played Legree in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” here
used to bite an atom off a cake of soap just
before he went on for tlie JL).X. scene, and
was thus able to literally froth at the mouth.
The stage is full of tricks and wooden cigars.
When you see the villain insult Lady Lin-
gerie, and that high-bred beauty dashes a
glass of champagne in his face, she doesn’t
damage his impeccable shirtfront. Instead
of liquid the glass contained canary seed,
which glistens better than the real thing
and is less expensive. I've heard the audi-
ence gasp when the comic man devoured
iced cakes in lightning succession.
They were merely carefully-moulded cones
of white tissue paper. Nellie Stewart’s
oranges in “Sweet Nell” were papier-
mache. Yorick’s skull is often a carved
swede turnip. In one play I know a boar's
tusk, an important prop., is usually a peeled
banana. Any reputable property man can
make a most convincing roast fowl out of
a trimmed and toasted loaf of bread.
From London :
There is not a pitch to be got in the West End, so
the suburban houses have come into their own.
At the Lyric, Hammersmith, originally a one-week
house for No. 1 touring cos., John Drinkwater’s
“Abraham Lincoln” has been drawing the Smart
Set for nearly a year, an almost unheard of happen-
ing in a suburb as far from the hub as Parramatta is
from Sydney, or the Broadmeadows camp from Mel-
bourne.
“Fax”: Having dismissed “Theodore and
C 0.,” in its first notice, as a thing beneath
contempt and doomed to early decease, the
Age delivered itself of a second notice when
the musical comedy was found to be fairly
set for a nine weeks’ run. The burden of
the “reconsidered” notice was apology for
the bad taste of the public in consenting to
be amused by “Theodore and C 0.,” four of
the performers being picked out for eulogy
as main causes of the lamentable success.
Theodore Leonard and Gladys Moncriefi
were excluded from the quartet, and readers
who had seen the show were practically tbld
to blush for their bad taste in having pre-
ferred the excluded ones to the rest of the
cast. As a matter of fact, the show would
be nothing without the unctuous fooling of
Leonard and the warble of Miss Moncrieff.
The new man Leonard has a better equip-
ment in low comedy than any other comedian
the J.C.W. firm has introduced since George
Lauri came to light nearly 30 years ago;
and, in spite of his husky extravagances, he
gives one the idea that he can be a higher-
class comedian in a higher-class part. As
the mainstay of “Theodore and Co.” he has
to “force the fun,” and for nine weeks he
has forced it in the face of adverse news-
paper criticism, to the evident discomfiture
of some of the critics.
The recent revival of Gilbert and Sullivan
in London has led to the usual outcry against
“gagging,” which brings the topical allusions
“Mother Hubbard,” at
Melbourne King's.
Wensley Russell, the
principal girl, as
Dorothy.
up to date. Gil-
bert, it is sug-
gested, would
have been f ran th-
at any tampering
with his sacred
lines. INI r s.
D’Oyly Carte,
however, poo h-
poohs this. The
address or Nanki-
poo in “The Mi-
kado” has “always
been varied ac-
cording to circum-
stances and local-
ity, in accordance
w i t h Gilbert's.;
written instruc-
tions” ; and th e
comedian who
makes it “Foots-
cray” or “Woolloo-
mooloo” is doing
the right thing—
prolfably without
knowing it. Also
the 1a d y novelist
who never would
be missed was
brought up to date
in various revivals
by Gilbert himself,
as (in turn) red-
hot socialist,
scorching bicyclist
sham philanthropy
p i s t. scorching
motorist and lovely
suffragist. So Mrs. Carte lias instructed the
Ivoko of the present rendering to make it
“prohibitionist.”
“J.F.H.” (London): 11., B. Irving is to
have a full-sized biography written by
Brereton, sometime of Sydney, who also com-
piled the best life of H.B.’s famous father.
Airs. Irving heartily approves, and has placed
all her late husband’s correspondence at
Brereton’s command. The biographer appeals,
to other possessors of Irving letters to let
him have a look at them. He hopes some
of interest will come from Australia, where
H.B. had various connections.


Starts
Tomorrow
Friday,
23rd January.
Unable to hold our usual Red
Spot Sale owing to the difficulties
which prevail in present market
conditions, we intend to keep faith
with the public by allowing for two
weeks only
2- in the £ Discount
off everything except
Tobacco.
A great many lines are specially
reduced up to 50 per cent., and
then 10 per cent. off. This is a
splendid chance to save money on
clothing—don’t miss it.
Buy liberally now and smile in the
future. We are not issuing a cata-
logue, but country customers can
order from the current catalogue
and we will make a reduction of at
least 10 per cent.
BUY NOW & SAVE CASH
Remember this offer is only avail-
able for two weeks—act promptly.
Call and make your selection or
write Desk R.
Bargains in Panamas
and Boaters.
Special line in White Fibre Panamas, Smart
shapes, with 2|-inch brims, and lf-inch
bands. Side bows. Sizes 6J to H- Usually
15/6.
REDUCED TO 11/6,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
10/5
Another big Special Line in White Fibre
Panamas, .smart city shapes, with 2i-inch
brimst Black Silk Bands. Sizes 6f to 7J.
Also Telescopic shape. Usually 18/6.
REDUCED TO 13/6,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
12/2
Big purchase of Genuine South American
Native Panamas, latest city shape, assorted
size brims, from 2i to 2f inch. Grease-proof
leathers, good Black Silk Bands. Sizes 65
to 7\. Usually 25/-.
REDUCED TO 18/6,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
16/8
Special line in Straw Boaters, latest
shapes, crowns, and
brims; bands li and 2 inch. Side and
■dbow bow. Sizes 6f to 71. Usually
5/11.
REDUCED TO 4/3,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
3/10
Everything Post Free to Any
Part of the Commonwealth.
M
MURDOCHS
inihe
DISCOUNT SALE
| £rerydine reduced at/east jLO%
specialty reduced up totyOX
Less ft DISCOUNT
GHJGH
JHGH
10 per cent. Discount in our
Tailoring Department.
Men! Here’s your chance to get smart suits tailored from up-to-
date Tweeds at a big reduction.
Use your foresight—clothing prices are sure to increase—fill your
wardrobe now while you save 2/- in the £.
Call and make your selection from
our wide range of Suitings or write
Desk R for bunch of patterns.
Desk R,
Messrs. Murdoch's in Parle Street, SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Suitings at
Suit to measure with tape and self-measurement form.
Name
Address
Big Reductions in Men's Ready-
to-wear Clothing and 10 per cent.
Discount.
Australian Tweed Sac Suits, Ready-to-wear, all sizes, Med. and Light
Grey, only in herringbone effect.
Coats have two-button fronts, outside and inside breast pockets, no
vent in back. Trousers have side and hip pockets, cuff buttons. Usual
price, 84/-.
6810
REDUCED TO 76/6, LESS 10 PER CENT.
Ready-to-wear two-piece Sports Suits, pure wool. Australian Tweeds
in Grey, Navy and Brown, cut in latest style. Sizes SJ, 6,7, 71, 8.1
only. Usual price, 63/-.
REDUCED TO 50/-, LESS 10 PER CENT.
Men’s Ready-to-wear Trousers in Dark Grey Stripe, worsted finish
material, side or hip pockets, plain bottoms.
45-
USUAL PRICE 10/6, LESS 10 PER CENT. .
96
m
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
S'fib'S T3> UOhl JOJ
suamimo oiarduiod
m
:%\
Bargains in Soft Felts
Special line Fur Felt Hats, 21-inch brims, in
Drab and Slate. Black bands. Sizes 6§ to
7j. Usually 14/6.
REDUCED TO 11/6,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
GHJ
Extra special Velour Hats in Slate and Steel
Black bands, 2|-inch brims. Sizes 6| to 7]
Usually 16/6.
REDUCED TO 14/6,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
13/1
Oddments in Soft Felt Hats, 2i-ineh brims.
Colors: Fawn, Brown, Slate and Cuba. Sizes
Y to 7} only. Usually 8/6.
REDUCED TO 6/11,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
6/3
Special purchase, Hats for country
wear with 3-inch brims, flat-set. in
Dark Fawn and Cuba only. Sizes 6§
to 7i. Usually 8/11.
REDUCED TO 7/6,
LESS 10 PER CENT. .
6/9
Everything Post Free to Any
Part of the Commonwealth.


£3O.
rmm
£l3/10/-
£l5/10/-
£l lO.
Stewart
Dawson’s
The power of Ready Cash applied to
the huge Buying interests of the
Stewart Dawson Company is a most
potent factor in the Quality of the
Diamonds sold to their clients.
All their Diamond Buying is con-
ducted in Hatton Garden, i.ondon. the
World’s Great Centre for Diamond Busi-
ness ; and as all the firm’s transactions
are paid for “cash on the spot” their
London Buyers are able to command the
pick of the gems.
K 693. —Exquisite Diamond
and Pearl Cluster Necklet,
£22/10/-
Quality
Diamonds
Think of what tlrs means in providing
for the requirements of Ten Large Estab-
lishments in London and Australasia,
and you have the secret of Stewart
Dawson’s Unrivalled Values in Diamond
lungs.
All Diamonds set in Real Platinum,
and the Purity and Brilliance of the
Stones is guaranteed.
Call and Inspect at any of the
Stew’rt Dawson Establishments. or
Write for Latest Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson’s
Establishments
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
Also Regent Street and Hatton Garden, London.
£5O.
£l6/10/-
£l5/10/-
£135.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
“Minim”: The Taits have booked John
McCormack for another tour of Australia.
The Irish tenor, avlio. by the bye, has
become an American citizen since he was
last here, Avill be warbling to us about next
July, all—including his voice—being well.
_ “Scribe”: Local playwrights may hoav sui-
cide or emigrate. " A prominent manager
lately assured me that it was no use my
submitting anything as (3) there was no
one in Australia Avho Avas a judge of a play
in MSS. form, (2) there was no one in
Australia who could produce from a blank
script, and even if there was (3) there were
no actors who could create parts. Some
time ago the same authority travelled to
Europe in search of attractions. He spent
a year or so away, and returned Avith one
play Avhich proved a rank failure. The
money wasted on travelling expenses Avould
have guaranteed the promotion of tAvo or
three “ ’Possum Paddocks,” which, if they
do not advance the cause of Australian litera-
ture, at any rate prove that the local article
is marketable. As it was, Kate Howarde
had to stand behind her OAvn play until it
had survived the ordeal of a first night. Then
managers buzzed around her like hornets,
but they Avere too late.
“Norbell”: When aa’c Avere on tour George
“ Cinderella ,” at Syd-
ney Grand Opera
House.
The bloodthirsty
Mexican (Dan M.
Dunbar ).
Musgrove used to
give us fatherly
counsel occasion-
ally. He Avas strong-
on taking up some
hobby to occupy
the mind during
the day and keep its
alleged owner out
of the private bar.
His shining ex-
a m pie av as an
American mummer
who Avas here Avith
one of G.M.’s
shoAvs, and who Avas
an ardent entomolo-
gist. Later the bug-
hunter died after
a long and expen-
sive illness, leaving
his widow in what
the evening papers
call “very strait-
e n e d circa in-
stances.” Someone
suggested that she
should sell her hus-
band’s collection of
Australian beetles,
butterflies, stick
insects, etc. The
widow wasn’t very
sanguine about it,
and she was the
most astonished
Avornan in the U.S.A. when the collection
realised over 12,000 dollars.
%
"Ibsenshaw” : “Ox” remarks (B. 15/l/’2O)
that “Lightniu’,” if written by an Australian
and submitted in MS_ Avould probably never
have got past the reading stage. Most pro-
bably, I should say. But can anyone imagine
an Australian Avriting a “Lightnin’ ” ? The
piece is constructed by play-fakers who know
every trick of the boards. Where are local
Avriters to get the oraetical knoAvledge to fol-
io av the Yankees’ example? They could. I
think, write better plays, but not one of this
sure-fire sort. Experience teaches, and the
slick American author, having learnt his job
on the actual stage, is cute enough to grasp
what the present-day audiences want —and
give it them. He, therefore, combines the
elements of the revue-cim-vaudeville sketch
and the quick-changing picture-shoAV, and
doesn’t mind whose ideas he incorporates
with his own in the process. Clever? Yes,
but unscrupulous. He gets there, never
mind lioaa' —which is typical. Meamvhile the
Australian playwriters never get an oppor-
tunity of getting there. The alternative
seems to be to get to America.
“Flick-flick”: Earthquakes are nothing
compared Avith the upheaval in Sydney’s film
industry. The fierce commercial enmity
’tAvixt Paramount and Union Theatres sud-
denly ceased and the twain joined in an
embrace. Then J. C. Williamson, Ltd., ap-
peared on the scene waving a cheque-book,
and its influence points to many changes.
The most probable is that Henry Gee will
quit Avith a dress-basket stuffed Avith film-
gotten gains. Harry Musgrove, with visions
of big things American, Avill very likely go
also. At least, it is expected that nothing
short of choking will keep him here.
“Norbell”: I was with Dampier in Bris-
bane, doing Warrigal in “Robbery Under
Arms.” Our crowd goaded the Bland Holt
mob till they consented to play a cricket
match against us in the Botanical Gardens.
Walter Baker. Charles Brown, Harford,
Jack Cosgrove, Al-
bert Norman and
all the Old Guard
gave us a dirty lick-
ing, in the course
of which I twisted
my ankle. That
night the faithful
Warrigal limped
around the Mars-
tons’ front gate in-
stead of jumping-
over it. When I
go t off Dampier
askod me Avhaffor,
and I explained. I
never .saw the ami-
able old chap so
near being angry.
“There you are!”
lie Availed. “Y ill
Avill go playing
these savage and
dangerous games,
without a thought
of Me or your Art.!
It’s really most in-
considerate !” That
same night Dam-
pier nearly put one
of Inspector Gor-
ing’s lights out for-
ever by firing point-
blank at his eye’s,
and the injured
man had to go to
hospital. Dampier
was the most reck-
less stage shooter
“Mother Hubbard ,” at
Melboune, King's.
Marjorie Carlisle, the
principal bey, as Cap-
tain Jack.
I ever met, and always pointed his weapon
straight at his victim. Frank Hawthorne
wears a blue s-ir under his eye to this day
as a souven r of the old man’s marksmanship.
“Pam”: Ti:-> d'fiicul'y facing the Austra-
lian picture-pro,, m-er is the matter of
“release.” At one lime it was comparatively
easy to place a "feature’' w'th suburban
and country s .owmen once the film had been
given a big city boost. A subject like “Birth
of a Nation” was chased. Lut to-day these
showmen are mostly tied up with the film
exchanges, and it is difficult to get in. The
tied showman is just as great a menace to
the creation of films in Australia as the fat
combine which has the importing craze. And
that the combine is becoming more of an
octopus is demonstrated by the neAV com-
bination of the J. C. Williamson Films, the
Union Theatres and Australasian Films.
This combine is prepared to accept local
subjects, provided they are fair and good
samples of cinematography, but it won’t
take a hand in the development of the in-
dustry until energetic outsiders force its
hands. It is up to the CommonAvealth Gov-
ernment to delve into the position and devise
way and means to foster local production.
Pictures showing the industries of U.S.A.,
Canada and other places are “released” in
Australia and paid for at usual scenic rates,
and every foot is boosting the nlace it
depicts. Good, virile subjects Avith stories
written around the cattle, sheep, Avheat,
fruits, minerals and scenic features of
Australia Avould do more for this country
than all the expensive Agents-General. The
enterprise of the Southern Cross Co., of
Adelaide, which has turned out the most
excellent “Sentimental Bloke” and “Ginger
IVlick”; of E. J. Carroll, who is busy on
the right lines with good Aussie stories, and
of the newcomer, Southwell, with a well-pro-
duced “Kelly Gang.” is deserving of the
whole-hearted support of the Australian pic-
ture public. When the Australian public
indicates that it wants Australian-made goods
we shall cease to be stuffed with Yankee
piffle and fed with tales about “stars” whose
qualifications are pure bluff and the favor
of wealthy film corporation directors.
Australia’s old friend Henrietta Watson
plays Mother in a stage rendering of the old
novel, “Little Women,” highly successful in
the U.S.A. and lately seen in London, where
it had a mixed reception. Present-day
American dramatists seem to have only three
ideas for a play—farcical action, revolver-
drama or mushy sentiment; and this new
play is nearly droivned in the tears shed over
the death-bed of the really unimportant
sister Beth.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Freda Sternberg’s men-
tion of Jimmy Watts, of Australia, starring
with the SAveil Greenwich Village Follies of
N’York (B. 15/l/’2O), recalls James’s ver-
satility. He had it before he quitted these
shores, and that was only after Philip New-
bury had assured me that the young man
could sing Canio’s soliloquy from “Pagliacci”
as well as he could himself. I said so-long
to Watts the day he left for England, and
he was very sore. He took the view that
he could become a living skeleton just as
comfortably elsewhere and wouldn’t have to
worry about hiding his bones from his
friends. The nearest he ever got to a real
part, I believe, was as one of the twins in
“The Belle of New York,” and yet, when he
reached London he was speedily dancing
with Gen Se. Later the music-halls made him
famous. Now he’s making the Greenwich
Follies more famous, and Australia will
have to pay heavily to get her oavia back
again.
“Aisle Seat”: Mrs. Walter Hill, whom
Poverty Point mourned the other day, Avas
Juliet in Maoriland to Mrs. Robert Hare’s
Romeo after they had buried Bob Hare at
the Bluff, Avhere he met Avith a fatal acci-
dent. How many other skirted Romeos have
we had?
“1.P.”: Apropos Australian temperance
advocates’ suggestion that the Prince of
Wales should be asked to shun booze during
his visit. When the Duke of Edinburgh
arrived in Auckland on the Galatea he
brought at least one passenger with a taste
for beer. It was a babv elephant presented
to him in India, and it Avas paraded round
Auckland by its sailor keeper, avlio punctu-
ated the procession with pubs, at each of
which his infant charge demonstrated his
ability to drink a gallon of beer without even
hesitating. Comedian Jolmnv O’Neil, then
a lad of 17, saw business possibilities in
the elephant, and coaxed it into the silent
Prince of Wales Theatre in Queen-street by
Avay of the auditorium. Here it was about
to give a trial turn, when it put its foot
through a trap in the centre of the stage.
The shock made it nervous, and the beer
began to tell. A horrified caretaker sud-
denly found his nice, clean stage inhabited
by a drunken elephant misbehaving hor-
ribly. The beast refused to descend into
the stalls, and was wobbled into a narroAV
passage leading to the stage door. Half-
way through it collapsed and stuck fast.
At night it was still slumbering, and a
bridge had to be erected over its body to
permit the actors to pass from their dressing-
rooms to the stage. The elephant Avas
ejected next morning, and Johnny O’Neil
went Avith it. But the animal was evidently
even then on the downward path. When
the Royal yacht got to Plymouth Jumbo
murdered his keeper, and the Duke gave him
to the Dublin Zoo.
Arthur Stigant remembers something:—
“Vaudeville Vet’’ (B. 15/l/’2O) remarks that
the originator seldom gets the full benefit of his
act, and goes on to tell how the Schwarz Bros, in-
vented a mirror act and shortly afterwards crossed
the Channel and found its twin brother on the
market. In 1894 we played in a comedy called
“The Ichemor,” under the management of an Aus-
tralian actor named Yates Pearson (sometime known
as Frank Gerald), through the English provinces, a
mirror act, the characters in which were an officer
and his soldier servant. The scene which the
brothers Schwarz “invented” nearly 20 years later
had the same characters, and in my opinion was
only an elaboration of the one we played in 1894.
Substituting the dame for the officer, a deal of the
business I incorporated in the mirror scene which
l played in the “House That Jack Built” panto in
Melbourne and Sydney in 1917 was the same as we
originally did in 1894.
A cable from Bert Leywood at Bangalore
settles it: —
No accident to Waller, who refuses to be dead.
Please contradict the rumor to the contrary. Playing
here successfully at present.
“Stargazer”: Two rival singers were
delighting the Melbourne public, a new-
comer and an established favorite. One
afternoon they met in a Bourke-street hotel
and instantly began picking at each other.
A was contemptuous towards B’s clothes
B thought A’s face the sort of thing that
Avould frighten fish. A loathed B’s religion,
and B held that the religion that could
save the soul of A was not yet invented
They disagreed about politics, and women
and horses and drink, and then they fought.
It was a whirling thing that suggested a
tvnhoon among a week’s AA-ashing. They
rolled a good deal on the floor, and then
the newcomer’s head came into contact with
a cuspidore, and he was a non-combatant.
His friends gathered him up and removto
“THE LITTLE DAMOZEL ,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Papa Bartholdu (W.J. Coulter), of the
Cafe Angelique.
him to his room, and B, the established
favorite, took another drink, and was tre-
mendously jubilant. '"‘Him sing!” he snorted.
“H im sing! Why, I beat him in three
rounds!”
The Greater Wondergraph Co. in Adel-
aide is establishing a chain of suburban pic-
ture houses. Headquarters are in Hindley-
street, with an open-air pitch in summer
on North Terrace. The outer circuit is to
include Unley (bought as a going concern),
Norwood, Hindmarsh, Goodwood, Mile End,
Port Adelaide and Semaphore.
“Blackout”: May I ask why Florence
Young's name continued to appear in the
“Theodore and Co.” advts. in Melbourne
while she was absent from the cast as a
result of injury caused by a motor accident?
Should a theatrical firm offer playgoers an
attraction which it knows to be temporarily
unavailable? If so, why should not a grocer
substitute sand when sugar has been paid
for? At the matinees of one theatre there
have been various occasions on which an
understudy appeared because a star actor
wanted to go to the races or had some other
engagement of equal importance. Night
shows also suffer at times. In London a few
managements are frank enough to advertise
regularly, several days ahead, that Mr. or
Miss Greasepaint will not appear at certain
named matinees. A case in point was that
of Nelson Keys in “Buzz Buzz.”
“Harrison O.” : For our past sin of always
belittling the Australian and belauding the
foreign, revue-producers still persist in offer-
ing exotic and out-of-date gags for Austra-
lian consumption. No matter how coldly his
efforts in this direction may have been
received in the past, a certain type of im-
ported comedian clings to the belief that a
jape which went well in London in 1915 can-
not fail ultimately to triumph over Austra-
lian stupidity in 1920. In these parts a
funny man has only to mention Billy Hughes
to score at least a smile, but Charlie Work-
man, of the Tivoli, is too much of a Lon-
doner to realise this, and so in “Oddments
he gets off a laborious jest about an
“Asquithian menu” whose chief item is
“Wait and see.” This old Tory gibe might
have had some force in London four years
back, but in Melbourne nowanights it is,
of course, received in stony silence. Aot
only are many of the gags in the latest revue
of English origin, but they concern person-
alities and events which have been forgotten
even by Englishmen. One of these nights I
expect Workman to screw a monocle into
his eye and remark “What I have said I
havm said”—and then wait for the burst of
merriment which will not happen.
“C. Ockney”: Robert Laraine, England’s
actor-airman, is daring. Having finished
with “Cyrano,” he has just started a season
at London Duke of York’s with “Arms and
the Man,” and everybody is wondering what
will happen to Shaw on this occasion. On
the first production of the piece at the
Avenue (a quarter of a century ago) G.B.S.
took a call at the end. Someone in the
gallery hooted. “I quite agree with you,
said Shaw imperturbably. “But Avhat are
two amongst so many?”
BEREFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It Avas a hoarding Avide and high
With glowing posters spread.
A tall, old black-clad man stood nigh,
And wagged his noble head.
The pictures AA'ere of actors avlio
Cavorted on the screen
In deeds of splendid "derring-do,
Or worshipped some dear queen.
The fine old man he threw an arm,
And took a striking pose:
“I mind the time” (his voice had charm)
“When I preceded those;
“When I bore oil' the lovely bride
And fought and conquered ten,
Or bearded with Samsonian pride
The lion in his den.
“I was, in those old spacious days,
The glorious sight to see,
And gaping thousands turned their gaze
lii wonderment on me.
“On great dead walls and hoardings High,
In richest colors diglit,
I stood in all creation’s eye
A thing of life and light.
“But now these shades usurp our bays;
This ghostly prancing crew
Monopolise our spacious plays,
And filch our hoardings too.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Surfers All Swear by REXONA
m
■MS®
MISS DUDLEY LINDSAY, a charming llexona Girl.
(From a photo.)
I am sending you my photograph, as I want to join your Rexona Girls, for I consider
that lam truly one. I have been using your Rexona and Rexona Soap now for over a
year, and consider them both excellent. 1 have found Rexona most healing, and a
wonderful skin remedy.
Rexona Soap is certainly unsurpassed as a toilet and medicated soap. I think
it is simply delightful, and would never consider using any other kind again. I am also
enclosing three Rexona Wrappers, which I have taken from the soap, and wish you
would please send me one of your Bubble Pipes, which I notice you advertise to give
away with each three Wrappers from Rexona Soap posted to you.
I hear that Rexona Soap is now the most used of any soap in Australia, and I
am sure it deserves to be.
Yours very truly (Sgd.), DUDLEY LINDSAY,
Jamison Town, Penrith.
A REXONA SURFING GIRL writes :
I want you to know that lam a Rexona Surfing Girl. I simply love surfing,
and am so fond of it that I often go in when the sun is strongest; but I never have any
bad effects from surfing, for I always use Rexona before going in. I rub some on my
face and hands, and 1 never get sunburnt nor is my skin affected in any way. After my
surf is over I always have a cake of Rexona Soap, which 1 use in the shower on my hair
and skin, and I find by the use of Rexona and Rexona Soap any girl can keep herself
quite as fresh and dainty when surfing as she could by missing all this fun and always
thinking of her complexion.
Amongst my girl friends I find more and more of them using Rexona every
day, and 1 am glad to write and tell you what excellent things Rexona and Rexona
Soap are for surfers.
Delightedly yours (Sgd.), BERYL FERGUSON.
Rexona Soap Gives Natural
Beauty to SKin and Hair.
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap.
Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate
texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse: they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing,
healing, antiseptic balsams as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout the
world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the
pores, lessen the tendency to pimples and leave the complexion clear, fresh and velvety. Don t forget Rexona Soap is the Aristocrat of
Soaps, unequalled for the toilet, nursery and bath. Large and lasting tablet, price 1 /-.
Rexona—the Triangular Shaving Stick
A New REXONA Product.
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph—one this time which will be appreci-
ated by men wherever beards grow. Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same Oils and Essences that have
made Rexona famous the world over, and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick
which is a soap and lotion combined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skin
against wind and bad weather.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (medicated) is Rexona Soap specially treated so as to produce a
thick, creamy lather, which will soften the beard and improve the skin at the same time. It is deli-
cately perfumed and medicated on the same principles as Rexona, and not only produces a lasting
lather, but purifies and leaves the skin in perfect condition. Reins' an antiseptic Medicated Soap, it
has a tendency to quickly heal any cut you may have the misfortune to get, and if troubled with
pimples or blotches of any kind will dailv tend to improve them.
REXONA SHAVING SOAP is the highest standard of Shaving Soap that it is possible to produce,
and a good Shaving Soap means everything to a shave, for if the beard is properly lathered a shave is
a delight ; but if the beard is not properly lathered but is stiff and harsh, it is not only severe on the
user but hard on the razor.
EVERYONE knows how delightful Rexona Soap is for the toilet, and Rexona Shaving Soap will be
found equally as pleasant for shaving. No cake of Rexona Soap and no stick of Rexona Shaving Soap
is ever marketed unless in perfect condition, for we market Rexona Soap as the finest of the fine, and
the scientific skill employed in its manufacture and the absolutely first quality of materials used
produce in Rexona Soap and Rexona Shaving Soap soaps of superlative quality which represent the
highest possible standard that we can offer to the public, regardless of expense.
MR. BOYD IRWIN PRAISES REXONA SHAVING SOAP.
For years I have used Rexona Soap for Shaving. To my surprise my chemist
handed me last week a perfect little triangular bar of the new Rexona Shaving Stick. I
must write and congratulate you on: (1) the appearance of Rexona Shaving Stick, (2)
the beautiful quality of it as a toilet requisite, and (3) its lathering and healing qualities.
A perfect Australian Shaving Soap is something new. Again 1 congratulate you.
Believe me (Sgd.), BOYD IRWIN.
Mr. BOYD IRWIN.
(From a photo
by Monte Luke.)
m
r
w •
A
\
<r>
\
ii
S •«
/
REXONA SHAVING SOAP will be found the most economical Shaving Stick on the market, but care should he exercised not to din the Stick in the
water, hut wet the face and apply the Shaving Soap dry. A few applications with the shaving brush will quickly produce a thick, creamy lather, which
lasts and thoroughly softens the beard, leaving the skin in a healthy and hygienic condition after the shave. Everyone should use a Medicated Soap for
shaving, for, after g'oing over the face with a razor and removing the beard, the skin needs a protection from the germs carried by the dust which everyone
Cooling,
Soothing, -
Healing
Antiseptic Ointment _
% t jri<’ ies -? Absolutely
& Heals i Reliable
texona
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the
fSkin, Eczema. Pimples. Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands
'Sciatica, itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Burns Bruises. Scalds
Bad Legs, Slings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA IN TRIANGULAR TINS ONLY.
REXONA, THE RAPID HEALER.
Rexona is the up-to-date Rapid Healer, and is well known as the King of Ointments. This
famous Healer is entirely different from all other ointments, and infinitely more efficacious. Rexona
is composed of the purest vegetable juices and rare medicinal herbs, which make Rexona an un-
equalled antiseptic, cooling, soothing and healing ointment. It is the greatest skin remedy of the
age. Thousands of neople thank Rexona for skin health and comfort after enduring years of suffer-
ing.
If you suffer from Piles. Eczema, Bad Leg, Varicose TJlcers, Ringworm. Hives, Sores on the Head,
Falling Hair, Dandruff, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Cuts, Burns or any eruption or irritation of the
Skin, Rexona will bring you prompt relief. If you have tried many remedies and been disap-
pointed, try Rexona, and you will be delighted with the results.
REXONA, THE RING OF OINTMENTS.
REXONA soothes and stimulates the parts affected, and, although the sufferer may be quite
unconscious of it, Rexona never ceases to exercise its healing powers, and so builds up the tissues
and makes your skin sound and healthy.
Rexona fills a long-felt need. There is no better treatment than get a tin of Rexona and apply
this rapid healer night and morning. First clean the sore or bruise with warm water and Rexona Soap,
then apply a little Rexona Ointment, and protect tie wound from contact with the clothing with a
soft bandage. The most troublesome sore will heal under this treatment in a few days. The wise
mother will always be prepared for emergencies by keeping a pot of Rexona handy. Sold only in
triangular pots at 1/6, or in larger size, holding nearly four times the quantity, price 3/-


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES &CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special ll 1
sole Agents : RESCHS. LIHITED. Rediern. Sydney.
LEWIS&WrIITTy
An Unique Statement,
BUT TRUE.
Tlie celebrated “Ross’’ Prismatic RACE Glasses are
the best Race Glasses made in any part of tlie
world.
Ross Glasses were adopted for the Briti-h Navy and
British Army after trials of all other mattes
of glasses.
They are hermetically sealed, and so withstand all
conditions of weather.
They have wonderful definition, light, and extra
large field.
We have just opened Models 6 and 8, and also
Ross’s Celebrated Marine Glasses and Telescopes.
We sell Ross Glasses at Ross’s Catalogue English
prices, plus only landing charges.
GHJ
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
PRESCRIPTIONS OUR SPECIALTY.
Vice-Regal Opticians for 25 Years,
Sight=testing Rooms Upstairs,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The people in control of the Davis Cup
arrangements did the game a series of bad turns
last week. They scored financially, perhaps; but
that is a poor consideration in the long run. Their
charges (a guinea and 15s. for unsheltered positions
on planks) were outrageous. The prices even of
the cheapest seats debarred some of the keenest
young players from seeing so much as one day’s play.
On the tickets was the proviso that no refund was
payable. A senseless arrangement, unless from a
profiteering standpoint; but the public had to take
it or leave it. The committee’s strong suit was
the fact that such a collection of champions does
not come together in Australia once in years. When
rain prevented play on Saturday those who had
paid under the impression that they were to see
the cream of the tournament—the doubles match —
were informed that they could view the last day
of the singles instead. Which, to many, was as
though they had paid at the Stadium to see a
Darcy and had been offered a Fred Kay. Mean-
while the committee was in the position of being
able to reap a further harvest of doubles enthusiasts
for the Monday’s gate, the attitude of many
people being that they might as well be fleeced for
a sheep as a lamb. If such treatment was handed
out to the class of person who patronises boxing-
matches, the life of the Double Bay establishment
would not be worth half an hour’s purchase. The
place is safe because tennis-crowds happen to be
quiet and law-abiding. But it is no sort of excuse
for the committee's treatment of its public.
* * * »
On Friday, the first day of the Davis Cup
Tournament at Double Bay (Sydney), J. O. Anderson
lost to Kingseote (7 —5, 6—2, 6—4) chiefly from
J. O. ANDERSON,
tennis champion of
N.S.W., and one of
the Australian re-
presentatives in the
Davis Cup matches.
lack of confidence. Patterson beat Lowe (6 —4, 6 —3,
2 —G, 6—2) despite a marked superfluity of it. The
young Victorian is a true champion, of course. The
strength and diversity of his shots are wonderful:
and a service here and there is unplayable. But in
his desire to be spectacular he sacrifices points, and
he has still to acquire the Davis Cup poise. The
stolid calm of Brookes; the smiling amiability, win
or lose, of the Britishers ; the obliviousness of all of
them to the presence of the onlookers—these things
are not his. However, his little weaknesses are emin-
ently curable, being the outcome of youth. In another
year he should develop into something that it will
take a superman to beat. Anderson s chief weak-
ness lay in his services, the first of which was
usually inaccurate and the second devoid of sting.
Kingscote’s strength derived from his speed, his
activity and the power and accuracy of his volleying.
In his capacity to get over the court, as in his
figure and many of his strokes, he recalls “Ruddy”
Gore, the wonderful little Londoner who is still
going strong after nearly 25 years in championship
tennis.
The Doubles game on Monday was all Brookes.
The Master is not a pound heavier, and he does not
look an hour older, than when he and Wilding
beat the Americans 10 years ago. His game is
entering on a sort of Indian summer. It is radiantly
perfect. He moved about so little during the first
set that he was cool when even the spectators were
steaming. Yet his services, his drives and his
smashes were terrifically effective. Patterson’s game
was a good deal more erratic than on Friday. His
tremendous services—the second offering every bit as
violent as the first —were successfid for the most
part, but he netted some remarkably easy returns.
Kirgscotc was repeatedly foot-faulted by Dr.
McElhone, acting as linesman at the southern end.
It evidently put him off; yet he played a great
and gallant game. Incidentally, some of those in
as good a position to judge as the doctor held that
he was wrong: but the interpretation of a foot-fault,
like that of a thrown ball in cricket, is a matter
of individual judgment. It was particularly regret-
table in this case, as Beamish was playing miles below
his practice form. He effected some attractive shots,
notably a wonderful lob-volley in the third set ; but,
on the whole, he was outclassed. The Britishers did
not take a set, and they won but two games—in
the third and last set, after Kingscote had taken to
serving at the northern end.
Tliis is Norman Brookes’s eighth Davis
Cup, which is easily a record for the world. W. A.
Lamed (U.S.), the late Anthony Wilding and
veteran 11. Roper Barrett (Eng.) have appeared on
six occasions, and another brilliant Englishman, 11.
L. Doherty, held up the British end in five Cups and
was never defeated. Roper Barrett, however, is the
most enduring of the crowd. He faced America in
the first Cup in 1900, and in 1918 helped his side
to its position as challenger in the recent struggle.
Aceoi cling to a Sydney paper, tennis-cham-
pion Beamish, asked after Friday’s play what he
considered his team’s prospects, remarked: “An even
chance. If anyone wishes to offer 10 to 1 on
the Australians, lead him to us at once. But it
must be 10 to I—nothing less.” This readiness fo
take 10 to 1 about an even-money chance suggests
that Beamish is wasting his' time as a mere tennis-
plaver. His province is the Ring.
If * * *
Norman Boss smashed two more records
at Brisbane on Saturday when he left 300yds. awash
in 3min. 25see., and 300 metres in 3min. 45 2-ssec.
Brothers Syd and Frank Springfield viewed his effort,
from positions some yards in the rear. The 300yds.
figures are 1 2-ssec. better than .1. P. Hatfield’s
world’s record put up at England in 1913 (although
Ross is reported to have done the trip in 3min.
1(5 3-ssec. in America) ; and the 300 metres perform-
ance obliterates the Yankee 11. E. Volhner’s best
(3min. 55 2-ssec.). In a 100yds. scratch race Ross
easily beat Bananaland’s best in 58 2-ssee.
N. H. Mac Neil, the Rallied freshman who
was picked last week to row for Oxford against
Cambridge next March, 'learned most of his oars-
manship with the Melbourne University B.C. He
won an M.C. and bar at the war.
* * * *
Boxing - , which at one stage of the war
was practically lifeless in Sydney, is now experiencing
a marked boom. For the Green-Blackburn fight at
the Stadium on Saturday evening the advance guard
of the crowd of 15,000 which ultimately turned up,
began to gather in the rain during the early after-
noon—a spectacle which has not been seen since
1914. The disturbance, which was for the bantam
championship of Australia and the right to meet
Digger Evans, was well worth the admission money.
Green won by a fair margin of points. He must be
one of the two or three greatest bantams in the world.-
He has an extraordinary number of bits and his speed
and strength are remarkable. Yet Blackburn gave
a magnificent exhibition. He is a great little two-
handed scrapper and as game as a lion. He may
have weakened himself a shade getting down 1o
gst. 51b., which is probably some pounds below
his best fighting weight these days.
* * * *
In reference ; to the huge prize money and
the publicity work generally associated with the
approaching Dempsey-Carpentier fight London Times
has sounded a note which is bound to get more
vehement as the weeks pass. The same situation
a - ose in Australia when the Burns-Johnson affair was
promoted. The only real justification for that
contest, in the minds of most fight patrons, was
the fallacious expectation that Africa would be put
in its place by the agency of a sound hiding. When
Johnson walked off with the world’s championship
and a vast sum in cash it was felt that the white
race had been humiliated and civilisation degraded.
Dempsey is also, technically, a colored man: his
mother was an Indian. He is evidently thought
little of in his own country: the U.S. Soldiers pro-
tested a few days ago against his being allowed to
meet Carpentier at all, on the ground that he had
shirked the war. In fact, he is a sort of Johnson IT.
If he beats the idolised Frenchman —as, on form, he
should—boxing may get a record set-back.
* *
Dick Tressider died at Carrington
(N.S.W.) on Saturday,, aged only 48. He had been
ill for a year or more: and latterly his case was
known to be hopeless. He was a great sculler, but
happened to be born into an age of giants at the
game. George Towns beat him for the world’s
ehamnionship on the Parramatta in 1904, and Webb
did the same on the Wanganui (M.L.) in 1908—by
which time both men had done their dash as front-
rank oarsmen.
'" * * * *
Some of the winners at Caulfield last
Saturday give promise of repeating their offence a
month or six weeks later. Bright Plume, not par-
ticularly blooming, won the hurdle race easily enough
from older nags that were giving him weight, and
maybe the son of Bright Steel will develop into a
first-class hurdler. Kilflinn, a Maoriland-bred marc
that did no good when carrying the Rajah of Bhong’s
colors, followed up a down-the-line success by taking
the Anniversary Handicap after a tight finish. In
the hands of a little apprentice lad (G. May) this
stylish mare performed like an honest battler who
may go further than 11 furlongs when required,
though it has to be considered that she is not a
big one, and an extra bit of weight may mean
much to her. ■ Two-year-old Etive, winner of the
Holiday Stakes, has been a very payable proposition
thus far. This was the filly’s third win in about
four tries, and each time her starting price has
been three to one after longer odds were procurable.
A lot of cold water was chucked on Etive’s chance
for last Saturday’s event. In the first place Norman
Scobie, the trainer, said they wouldn’t run Ernest
Clarke’s filly; then, after she had duly accepted
and was saddled up, the word went round that she
hadn’t done sufficient work for the task in hand, it
was only a 51-furlongj task, anyhow, and the fact
of Etive being a trifle above herself didn’t matter
if she wasn’t going to be pushed at the finish.
Nothing got nearer than two lengths of the willing-
sprinter. She looks likely to pick up one of the
bigger stakes in the Autumn. The last race of the
day proved a good thing for imported La union, who
didn’t get caught in the barrier this time. The
chestnut gelding seems callable of considerable im-
provement, but he has more the cut of a stayer
than a sprinter, though the distance on Saturday
(seven furlongs) suited him nicely.
T. IF. Hints. IF on. Sec. Lawn Tennis
Association.
r, ' K '' ’’nrcl-worked Svdney Damsel, with
9st. on top, took the Flying at Canterbury Park
(N.S.W.) on Saturday in good enough style to draw
attention to her chance in the Challenge Stakes. To
land the bacon in this event she will have to carry
Bst. 81b., travel faster, and beat a better lot. In Satur-
day’s company were Sweet Uosaleen and Sweet Lady.
Tne first, starred at a very short price and scrambled
home third. Sweet Lady was on the bargain-counter
and finished at the tail end. If it were not for pre-
vious failures at Randwick Sydney Damsel’s chance
in the big sprint would look better. She is a wonder-
ful track worker ; hut the long straight at Randwick
seems to pull her up with any weight aboard, and
Bst. 81b. is a mighty solid cargo for a nag of her
inches. She is only a pony.
Imported Urney. who finished up last
season with a sensational succession of wins on
suburban courses and had been running with con-
spicuous lassitude since, felt sufficiently revived on
Saturday to appropriate the Canterbury Handicap
(l]m.) with Bst. 91b. up. He was handled by
apprentice H. Lillyman, the only horseman who can
do anything with him. There was nothing much to
beat, but the runners included the Bananalander
Lord Marajax, who had (ilb. less than the winner,
and Rosewalk (fist. 121 b.), who had been fairly
well backed for the A..J.C. Anniversary next week.
In this Urney is weighted at 7st. 121 b., but as
under the “9st. rule” the handicap moves up owing
to scratchings, he will apparently carry Bst. 41b., and
Rosewalk 7st. 21b. Which may settle them both.
The Bananalander with 7st. 131 b. may do better.
Urney inhabits an apartment in the same stable as
Sydney Damsel —Tomlinson’s.
The A.I.F. had the best of the luck against
Victoria, noticeably weakened as a batting side by
the absence of Park, Hartkopf and Ransford. Never-
theless, the soldiers failed to produce evidence of
high-grade Superiority in any section of the game.
On the figures the removal of the Vies, for 116
in the first innings was an achievement, but the
earth was so soft that fast-bowler Gregory dug a
graveyard in his gallop to the wicket, and the rain-
sodden pitch w r as full of deceits and dangers with
such a towering catapult behind the ball. Lacking
the length, pace and accuracy of Cotter, Gregory.,
with the assistance of the pitch, easily kept the
batsmen guessing whether the next missile’s objec-
tive would be their hoof, cranium or middle dis-
tance. No doubt Gregory’s average of seven for 22
was very line, but, like all the fast division, he
is chiefly a. streak of uni instructed energy. Neverthe-
less lie adds variety to the A.I.F. attack, which is
stiffened by a couple of left-handers, Stirling and
Winning, who run diagonally to the crease like
veteran .Jack Saunders. The Diggers were credited
in advance with great hitting powers, but only one
or two showed any marked disposition to lodge the
ball in Tasmania. Probably the qualitv of the Vic.
bowling kept the wallopers respectful even on a
wicket that had improved in their favor. Liddicutt,
a new right-hander with a puzzling ball, got four
for 55, which, considering the disparity in the
wickets, was a worthier performance than Gregory’s.
McDonald's three for 76 was fair for a man who
can never be trusted to maintain the “off theorv”
without delivering a. good deal of expensive rubbish
on the leg. On the other hand, Armstrong’s one for
68 gave no indication of the awe he produced. In
the matter of fielding the Vies, hadn’t the certaintv
cf the A.T.F. Some catching practice would benefit
them greatly and also spare the lungs of the bob
reserve.
* * *
“Ato”: At the recent big cricket match
in Melbourne I sat behind a trio of elderly men.
The middle man was the one-time inter-State crack
Sam Morris, now old and feeble and stone blind. It
was pathetic to see the old cricketer sitting there
amongst the keen-eyed watchers. I bent forward
and listened to his cobber’s chatter: “Ryder’s gone
on with the wind.... eight men fielding on the on
side.... Ellis is two yards back Ryder’s bowling
fast and breaking away Bardsley’s hooked him to
leg. . . .no one there Armstrong s after it hear
the crowd jeer to see him run....they ran five for
it... . llardsley 55; Kelleway 50.’’ The blind man
sat, head low on breast, listening to every word and
visualising it all.
Adelaide cricket has been made more in-
teresting by the first defeat this season of East
Torrens. There was a bit of finessing over the
tvto-day match, which began on December 13 and
finished on January 10, when the inter-State men
were bound to be absent. East Torrens won the
toss and put North Adelaide in, with the idea that
their two chief match-winners, Arthur Richardson
and Townsend, should bowl the other side out and
get their own innings the same afternoon. It all
went as planned, except for three things: (1) North
Adelaide made too many—2B6, Gehrs a beautiful 137;
(5:) Richardson and Townsend did not come up to
their batting form, leaving behind only 38 between
them ; (3) another East Torrens man, Schulz, was
unexpectedly wanted for Melbourne and Sydney as
wicketkeeper, and was absent at the finish. North
Adelaide won by 25.
* * *- *
At Maoriland A.A.A. championships at
Wellington on Saturday H. E. Wilson did the
120yds. hurdles in 15sec. —3-ssec. better than George
P. Keddell’s record figures. At. the British Army
championships at Aldershot, last year Wilson won
I lie 120yds. hurdles in 16 l-ssec. George David-
son ran the Hundred in 9 4-ssec., equalling Billy
Macpherson’s and J. H. Hempton’s Australasian
figures (also put up in M.L.). The double-cham-
pions of the day were A. B. Sievwright (one- and
three-mile walks), A. W. Dormor (440yds. and
880yds.) and E. G. Sutherland (high and broad
jumps). The M.L. team for the Australasian cham-
pionships at Sydney next week was afterwards
chosen, and includes Lindsay (sprints), Wilson
(hurdles and jumping), Dormor (distance), J.
Mcllolm and Munro (field events), Harvey (pole
vault) and Sievwright. It is a great team.
As the outcome of “tests” the Victorian team will
be 1). W. Gale (100yds., 220yds., 440 yd«. and broad
jump), B. Linehan (100yds., 220yds., 440yds. and
880yds.), F. L. Edmunds (field events and high
jump) and W. H. Brown (one and three miles).
The Vic. team will defend the title won in January,
1914.
B. J. Linehan will take some beating in
the quarter. In fact he is perhaps the best
man at all distances from the 100 to the half
that has ever left the State. W. H. Brown, the
miler, should do 4min. 25sec. on a fast track. He
is a former 10-miles cross-country champion with
the pace to lick a solid half-miler. The much
improved Gale, of the ’Varsity A. C., will take
the 100 on; and L. F. Edmunds, another ’Varsity
crack, will figure in the 120yds. hurdles. In the
test Gale did evens and Edmunds put the 10 sticks
behind him in several yards inside 16see. A mas-
sive younger brother of Edmunds is the shot-putter.
He can do in the vicinity of 40ft. He is just on
19, and represents Scotch College in the public-
school contests. In the three miles Vic. will he
without a George Blake or Rufus Ferguson, Cliff
Manley, who did 15min. 20sec. for the distance
with the A.I.F. team in England, representing Vic.'s
best in this event.
The N. S. Wales team, made up of athletes
who have shown “form”, of late over choice dis-
tances, includes Walton Hunt, Jack Leadley, “Slip”
Carr and W. Hutton (sprints) ; R. G. Piggott, H.
and M. J. Grandemange and J. W. Cain (distances) ;
Ernie Austen, G. R. Parker and R. F. Stokes
(walks) ; Frank Rule, K. B. Fraser (Uni.) and
J. W. Fraser (hurdles) ; C. T. Ferguson, O. Nothling,
K. Naukler and F. J. Morgan (field events) : and
A. Floyd, R. Harbison, W. J. Potter, R. Sidman
and R. J. I-lonnor (jumps). The omission of A. W.
Winter from the jumps seems wrong in view of
his demonstrated ability and hardiness. The team,
however, is sound, all of them are capable of big
things, and they are helped by a knowledge of
every blade of grass on the Sports Ground.
-*•«■**
Auckland (M.L.) in defeating Canterbury
for the Plunket Shield amassed 643—the biggest
innings score ever compiled in inter-provincial or
shield matches in the Dominion. S. G. Smith made
256 in five and a half hours. The previous best
was A. E. Relf's 157, put up against Canterbury
in 1907. Canterbury could do no better in reply
than 255 and 228.
* * * *
L. (Tod) Solomons will reach Sydney next
week. In 1914 he swam a dead heat with W.
Longworth for second place in the 100yds. State
Championship. He was a member of the A.I.F.
team in the Allied games, and swam second to
Norman Ross in the ioO-metres event. His record
100yds. swim (574 seconds put lip in the 1913-14
Northern Suburbs championship) still stands. Tod
is also an ex-world’s record-holder for 50 yds. In
1910 ho and Aleck Wickham were continually after
the honor. Solomons beat Wickham’s figures, taking
23 4-ssec. for the journey. Aleck allowed him to
hold the honor for one day: he then lowered the
time to 23 3-ssec.
* *• X- *
In the international cycling scratch race
in Sydney lust week, the brothers Hans and Ernest
Ohrt (TJ.S.) were too good for Georgia Horder
(father) anil H. Holder (son) over a mile. Willie
Spencer defeated Alf Grenda in two straight heat'
over a similar distance. Grenda, however, took
the cash attached to both five-mile scratch events,
with Alec Mcßoath (N.S.W.) second on each
occasion. N. S. Wales riders came to the front in
a match race, when Les Crook and Henry defeated
C. Osteritter (U.S.) and Corry (N.S.W.). The
mile handicap also went to the much-improved
Osteritter in lmin. 59sec.
* * * *
I*. Coleman, of Palmerston North, riding
an 8-valve Indian at the motor-cycle sports at Auck-
land, made two new world’s records on the grass
track —15m. 150 yd. in 13min. dead, and a single
mile in 49 3-ssec. A week previous, at Gisborne.
Coleman won the M.L. heavyweight championship
of 15m. 1184 yd. in 14min. 48 l-ssec., and the motoj-
cycle open handicap (10m. 790vd.) in 9min. 54
3-ssee.
THE CRUX OF THE MATTER,
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Blank, who would probably be favorite if the
stable had given a lead, has retired from the head
of the list, and the place is now occupied by Dash,
who, according to common talk, has been accorded
stable support.” —Racing item.
Cried Mugginsford the punter: “I’ve just watched a
trial spin—
This morning before breakfast it took place.
Don’t say a word about it, but if Stiffun doesn’t win
When next he’s seen in public in a race —
Well, call me all the fools you like. Contempt upon
me spill.
Denounce me as an utter mug.” Said Smiggs, his
friend, “I will.”
But Mugginsford, the credulous, was not to be denied.
“I tell you,” he repeated, “it’s a cert.
This horse has everything in sight defeated ‘to the
wide.’
Go out next week co Randwick. Be alert,
And if you feel inclined to plunge on something
doubtful, don t.”
Said Smiggs, “If that means backing Stiffun, Mug,
my boy, I won’t.”
“You won’t!” yelled Mugginsford. “You mean you
don’t believe lie’s fit!
Why, man, I saw him win hands down myself.'’
“1 quite believe you,” Smiggs replied. “You miss
the point of it.
The reason I decline to risk my pelf
Is this: 1 know the horse, and that he’ll try as well
as you.
But what’s the good of that unless the stable’s try-
ing too ?”
K.B.W.
10-2-4.


If YOU Want to Enjoy
Glorious Health
GHJ
and secure for yourself energy, power and vitality, with a
perfectly healthy body, you must have every function work-
ing in a harmonious manner, and that means a certain
amount of regular exercise—it means that you must keep
the muscles of your body in good repair.
These muscles were given for a certain purpose—not to lie
inactive, rust, become full of neurotic poisons, but for use.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
is thorough, modern and most successful.
The secret of my success with my clients is that I give
each and every one the most striet and personal attention
in prescribing my exercises—thus you would receive exercises
that are most suitable for your individual physique, just as
the particulars you furnish tell me what you x'equire.
If you want to enjoy better health —to have a strong and
healthy body—write to-day for my booklet, entitled “Health
and Strength from Seif-Culture,” which tells all about my
methods, fees, etc. .lust write your name and address
across this advertisement, and send it to me, with three
penny stamps for postage. I will know what you mean.
REG. L.( snowy )BAKER,
Natural Health and
Physical Culture
Expert,
193 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street,
GHJ
British
and Best
All the WORLD’S ALTITUDE
AND LONG-DISTANCE
FLIGHT RECORDS
have been achieved on
r UAICEFIELD
Reed.
MOTOR. OIL
C.C. Wakefield 8 Co. La.
5 Moore Street. SYDNEY,
and LONDON'.
| WHEN TOURING
You don't need a map to
find out where to get
1 44 VJ 17 WV »f
9 H £i Li Li
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
fx.. m
Shell
3EHZIHE
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS,
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0., MOUNT MORGAN, „ Box 220 G.P.0., .
MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND. SYDNLY.
Sold in all
Colors.
Your Old Hai will
Match Your Latest
Sold by all
Stores.
Dress
THE art of making ends meet as far as the dress allowance is concerned
lies in "doing up” and “making over.” If you must have a new hat
for your new dress lock out one of your last season's discards, get a
bottle of Gainsborough Mat Dye in the tint required, and you have it!
But be sure to ask for "Ga.nsborough” Brand if you don’t want a hat that
looks as if it had been done up.
Sold by all
Stores.
GAINSBOROUGH
HAT DYES
Sold in all
Colors.
“Bleacho” Your
and Economise.
Xew Straw Hats and Panamas cost such
a dickens of a lot these days that you
must make ’eiir last the season.
“Bleacho” cleans straws and panamas,
making them like new.V
CLEANS ALL WICKER
FURNITURE AS WELL.
Try “Bleacho” once—.and you will won-
der how you did without it for so long.
Hat
6d.
per packet
everywhere.
(A
A Well-matured Tobacco at ILast!
“NOSE, GAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Tco New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/4 P er ilb- 2,8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 576 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
GHĴ
eJ
TASMA
T
m
s*Efi
sjjj
W
1
4279
For
Australian Homes
In many Australian
homes and stores where
imported Carbide was
previously used for
acetylene lighting,
“ fasma” Carbide, the
Australian carbide, has
proved to be equal to
the best European and
Eastern carbide pro-
duced. It possesses
an exceptionally high
percentage in gas pro-
duction, and as a con-
sequence is most
economical in use.
Its ill umination is
brilliant and steady,
and it is quite free from
phosphorus. For light-
ing your home and
vehicles specify “Tas-
ma” Carbide—by so
doing you benefit Aus-
tralian industry and
benefit yourself. Made
in Australia by The
Hydro-Electric Power
and Metallurgical Co.,
Ltd. Works: Electrona,
near Hobart, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Victoria—NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY., LTD., 499-SOl Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales—NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., Clarence
Street, Sydney.
Queensland —SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS, LTD., Brisbane and
Townsville.
South Australia—AßTHUß H. HASELL, For t Adelaide.
West Australia—AßTHUß H. HASELL, Perth.
Tasmania—CULLlES BROS., 74 Collins Street, Hobart.


re
e/v
BY reason of long experience; by reason of all those little
conveniences appreciated by the busy city man; by reason
of its special services for business and professional men;
and because of its unvaryingly high standards of quality and
value, Farmer’s is incontestably " The Store for Men ” par excel-
lence. Located on the Ground Floor, with frontages to Pitt and
Market Streets, the Men’s Outfitting Sections are most accessible
for the man with but little time to spare, whilst the Boot
Polishing, Gentlemen’s Manicure and Foot Expert services are
evidence of the policy of thoroughness in which no detail has
been overlooked and no modern convenience omitted.
FARMER S, SYDNEY
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
“Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful S minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay.
Electric Light and Lifts and all
conveniences usually associated with
First-class Hotels.
Illustrated booklet forwarded on
application.
JHKGH
The d tinct quality in
Vanity Fair Silk G oves—
the 41 aceful lin s, easy fit.
refined beauty and real service
given commend them to every
woman who takes pride in her
gloves.
W.th Vanity F ir Sil Gloves
you get a guarantee of long
wear and real economy, yet
you pay no more for them.
- Ask for them at your
Draper's.
v.r. 9
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rasi Proof
Corsets
Though Lady Dudley denies that the vast
Dudley estate has been sold for a million, or
for anything at all, the cable that the historic
show-place of the belted Warwicks is to be
converted into a pub for American million-
aires is probably true. The once beauteous
Countess may be as personally wealthy as is
alleged, hut the elderly Earl has notoriously
lacked means or inclination to maintain the
castle as a place of family residence. Some
years ago a prospectus of a Warwick Castle
Co., Ltd., was circulated privately in the
English midlands, the proposal being to pay
the Earl an annual income for the right of
exploiting the old home as a visiting-place
for tourists. One day a week the premises
were to be closed to the general public, and
there was some suggestion of charging special
fees to special visitors for the privilege of
meeting the Earl on these occasions. But,
of course, that Gilbertian idea never ca-me to
anything.
Several acres of pasteboard have been sent
out bidding citizens to the Federal Govern-
ment House garden party on Saturday,
January 31.
Brother-in-law Ewen Wanliss is to be pri-
vate sec. to Lieut.-Governor Irvine in place
of Victor Hood, who has gone to Ceylon,
and will proceed thence to the family estate
in Sicily. Hood says he intends to be back
in Australia in 1923.
“Bandbox” Browne, of Tasmania, just
dead, had hard luck in matrimony. Early in
life he had a wife, but she drifted out of
his ken. After long, lonely years, spent in the
shadow of vice-regality, he thought he would
take unto himself another wife. His engage-
ment was announced. But before the mar-
riage the wife who was thought to be dead
made a dramatic reappearance. Again, after
jmany more years, he believed himself a
widower, and started towards the altar.
Once more he was mistaken. So he lived
a semi-detached life to the end.
It seems that the State Government in
arranging to give a reception in honor of
Birdwood and Monash at Parliament House
did not study all the niceties. Chauvel is
senior to Monash, and he was overlooked or
not remembered or something. He and his
dame are to give an At Home of their own
to “Birdy” at Yarra House on Tuesday
afternoon, January 27. By that time Law-
son will be nicely away again, sniffing the
ocean at Portland.
The Mayoral party in honor of Birdwood
is likely to be a record crush. The new city
figurehead didn’t know how popular he was
when he informally invited the citizens to
m-eet General Monash last w r eek. The party
was mostly in the council rooms, and only
the early birds got there. Late arrivals dis-
covered a dense mass of sassiety, etc., which
extended along corridors and half-way down
the stairs. The chief guests were marooned
on the dais, and the outskirts of the crowd
only got an occasional word of the speeches.
Women in full undress scrambled out at
times gasping for air. Elaborately-printed pro-
grammes of music, with Kirby in the lead,
was handed about by officials at the head
of the portico steps: but that was all the
distant guests got. Dames in lovely gowns
with no chance of parade wailed fretfully,
“What are we going to do naow?” and no
one knew the right answer. Everybody stood
and craned and longed for fresh air. Some
sociably-inclined folk who sighted friends two
or three yards away made an exploratory
tour. They went up one flight of marble
stairs, traversed a floor and descended more
stairs to wfithin calling-distance. Then they
had to halt again.
In the crush Alderman Jeffries’s two
daughters received many squashed congratu-
lations on their coming double wedding—due
on February 10. One bride-elect smiled in pink
and silver while clinging to her big soldier
fiancfi. The Monash lady subsided on to a
lounge seat, and Mrs. Pearce, being five-foot-
nothing, was lost to view. Somebody asserted
that Bertha Monasli was wearing a lovely
pink frock, but to most people slie was just
a cheerful glad-to-be-home voice in the rough
and tumble. The shapely head of the
Mayoress (Mrs. Stein) was just visible, with
diamonds sparkling in her auburn hair.
Supper was spread in three separate rooms;
hut the big overflow supper-room upstairs
was undiscovered by the many who went
hungrily home.
The Hobart people thought Dr. Truby
King “a dear man, but so unpunctual.”
You see, he travelled there without his wife,
who is his secretary and alarm-clock on other
tours. The Nicholls dame gave him an At
Home, and the T°ni Murdochs motored him
to the Mountains and to the Model Dairy
that feeds model Tassy babies, then on to
High Peak for afternoon tea. High Peak
belongs to the Grants. Little Mrs. Grant
was a daughter of the late parson Bell, of
South Melbourne. The gardens at High
Peak are wonderful, and all important visi-
tors are taken up to see them. The present
King and Queen were guests there once.
The death of Laura, wife of J. A. Johnson,
of Hobart, is widely mourned in Tasmania.
She was one of the finest women in the little
State. Naturally energetic, she worked
tirelessly right through the war, and, until
three months before the end, had never had
an ‘ illness. She organised innumerable Red
Cross activities, and was a champion golfer
in spare half-hours. Members of the Vic-
toria League, the Government, the Red Cross
and the University paid tributes to her
worth and services.
Ex-State-Commandant Brig.-General Wil-
liams, now a leader-writer on Melbourne
Herald, has been looking a sick man for
some time, and last week he had to enter a
private hospital. “Doing as well as can he
expected” was the last non-committal ver-
dict.
Irish nationalism never had a truer friend
than Dr. Nicholas O'Donnell, formerly of
North Melbourne, who passed out last week
at the home of his daughter Sheila, wife of
Frank Brennan, M.H.R., at Gardenvale. For
years he was the head of the United Irish
League, and was the leader in welcoming
most of the delegations which came this way
to champion Home Rule. Born at Gisborne in
1863, he was packed off to St. Pat.’s in
East Melbourne when old enough, and was
a full-fledged med. at an absurdly early age.
lie worked up a big practice, and had he
pursued fees diligently he would have died
wealthy, for he had the personality and skill.
It was difficult to believe that he was local-
bred, for his speech and style suggested the
cultured Dublin Irishman. He had a mind
and a heart that matched his fine stature,
and he fought his critics according to the
best rules of the game. One son served
in Gallipoli; anotner is in London studying
the violin, having bagged the Clarke scholar-
ship ; the eldest is in Townsville.
Not many. Ministers have had a woman
municipal-clerk to call on them as a deputa-
tion from a council, but Frank Clarke had
that experience last week. Mrs. Rose Helena
Murphy, shire secretary of Wodonga, dropped
in to discuss the details of a little loan de-
sired for municipal buildings. She is the
daughter of a former shire secretary and
was trained by her dad. Remembering ner-
haps how his own mother, after she lost
her baronet, showed business capacity, in
conducting her own affairs and those of the
A.YV.N. League, and that Aunt Hughes
(dame of Brig.-General F. G.) has a
managing way with her, too, Frank Clarke
listened with great respect to the arguments
advanced by a feminine expert in local
government law. When objecting to the in-
clusion of a coffee-palace or picture-palace
(for leasing for revenue) in the scheme, lie
spoke more in the tone of the family lawyer
than in that of Sir Oracle, which he uses not
infrequently when dealing with men.
Tasmanian mining man Munro had to
coil into a four-foot berth to get to Mel-
bourne. The voyager came over under sail
in the Grace Darling, which took 24 hours
to blow from Burnie across the Strait. The
alternative was an outside chance of a
steerage passage from Hobart to Sydney, and
then overland to Melbourne.
Senator Keating let the East Melbourne
house and fixed up a cottage in the north of
the Apple Island. Then the family packed
and got down to the wharf just as the strike
tied up the steamers. After sadly contem-
plating the Yarra they picked up their
lighter baggage and got shelter in a Collins-
street tavern until the traffic is resumed.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme is home again. She
went to England to see her people and has
brought a sister back with her.
Medical Major Gordon (“Dick”) Glass-
ford has shed his warlike trappings and now
flies his brass plate and red lamp at
Brighton. Gordon used to shine on the
tennis courts in company with Gus Kearney.
He is to take delivery of a Military Cross
from Birdwood at the end of the month. His
brother, Capt. E. G. Glassford, will line up
for a similar decoration on the same day.
When the Housewives’ Association held a
meeting in the Assembly Hall for the pur-
pose of becoming dashed wild about the sugar
shortage, Customs Minister Massy Greene
decided to go along and supply the soft ex-
planation which occasionally turneth away
wrath. He was given probably the liveliest
20 minutes in his young life. The ladies
who asked for sugar and were handed soft-
soap shrieked in many octaves, and the small
voice of the chairwoman, pleading for order,
was unanimously disregarded. The audience
was not all hostile, but those who were not
were anxious to ask questions and just
bobbed up and put them whenever they came
into their heads. Sometimes a dozen bobbed
up simultaneously in various parts of the
hall, and most of the questions took the
form of speeches. Greene grabbed his hat
and fled as soon as fie nau musneu ms ora-
tion, while hoots and yells of “Twister ’
echoed through the sacred precincts. After
he had left 19 women delivered addresses
concurrently, and all the sugar in Bendigo
could not have sweetened the meeting during
the quarter of an hour that followed.
The Bertie Austins’ grown-up daughter
Catherine is engaged to a Mr. Bondy. She
lately carried off the golf championships and
threatens to rival the record of her cousin,
Mrs. James Gatehouse.
The W. J. T. Clarkes’ widowed daughter,
Vanda, whose husband, Norman Hodges, died
on active service about IS months back, has
just agreed to marry Geoff. Moule, solicitor
Arthur Moule’s only surviving son. Geoff,
flew for the country over various battlefields.
Pretty Esther Collins, daughter of a late
Sydney doctor and sister of promising young
writer Dale Collins, is displaying the dia-
mond circlet which means a trousseau. The
other party is Jack Broomfield, of the
Dromara River plantation, Papua. Jack
is dashing back to put his house in order.
Sylvia Vanderkelen, daughter of the Bel-
gian Consul, has booked for an early wed-
ding with young Eric Fyffe, the Collins-
street dentist. He got home from California
about IS months back after successful search
for health and a dental degree. Eric is the
third generation of Fyffe to practise in the old
Coll ins? street rooms, where his grandfather
(now over 80 and on the retired list) first
tinkered the best Toorak teeth in partnership
with a Mr. Rodway, a great sport long since
dead.
In point of experience Alfred Montague
is the biggest figure in Melbourne’s musical
record. He has been a teacher and per-
former for over 60 years and is .still de-
veloping young talents on the ’cello and
piano—he plays both exceedingly well.
Alfred Montague came to Australia as a
youth in 1852, and had a spell of gold-mining
before he started to gratify his hereditary
craving for music. He first saw active service
in the orchestra of “Norma,” Melbourne’s
earliest opera (that was in 1856), and he
was proud to think that he was specially
engaged by George Coppin in Geelong. Then
came brilliant work with Lyster’s co. in
1861, with a l’epertoire of over 40 operas,
most of which were making their debut in
this country, and including “II Trovatore,”
which had just dropped off the composer’s
pen. Later on he settled down to theatre
work and inspected Jefferson, Brooke, Keen,
Barry Sullivan and others. He was one of the
earliest friends of Armes Beaumont,- and
long the intimate of Alberto Zelman. Inci-
dentally, he was well acquainted with the
scrumptious Lola Montez, who, after her
Bavarian affaire, became a brief puce patch
in our goldfields history. Heaven and other
circumstances permitting, the veteran, who
is here photoed by F. W. Tolra, of Rippon
Lea, will see his eighty-third birthday this
year.
Adelaide’s postscript:—
Engagements by the score. Gay little Mollie
Craven, younger daughter of the Cravens of
Rusheens, North Adelaide, to J. R. Campbell, of
Auckland. Jessie Segol, a little Sydney girl, to
Douglas Fotheringham, M.M., youngest son of our
late well-beloved Tony. Nathalie, daughter of the Muirs
of Nathalia (Vic.), to Henry Mayo, fifth son of the
De la Poer Beresfords of North Adelaide. Lawyer
Stuart Ronald, to Aileen Whitfield, of Cottersloe
(she belongs to an old Sydney family). And popu-
lar Nellie Waterhouse has made another young lawyer
happy—Bruce Ross.
Lieut. Harry Richardson, late of St. Peter’s, has
married Gwen Blakely Dalton, of Claremont, West-
ralia, and is sailing for California in February.
Lieut. Harry now takes life very seriously, and has
an appointment with the Y.M.C.A. of California.
At the recent Summer School the bush teachers
swapped experiences. One girl, stationed at Chinta,
15 miles from Murat Bay, had not seen fresh fruit
or vegetables for months. Even potatoes were a
luxury in that drought-afflicted country, and the
staple article of diet for about six months had been
salt pork.
At the invitation of the Board of Trustees of
the State Bank, his Ex. drove the first survey peg at
the site of the Galway garden suburb. The tempera-
ture was 102 deg. in the shade, but a representative
crowd turned up to see the official start of the town-
planning movement in S. Aus. The suburb has been
designed by town-planner Reade, and a large portion
of it has been secured by the State Bank for housing
Diggers.
Gaptain Bill Denny, M.C., an ex-Attorney-General,
was married on the 15tli to Winifred Leahy, of
Norwood.
The Owen Smyths have received news that their
son-in-law, a Shanghai barrister, E. W. G. Godfrey
has died after an operation. lie married their only
daughter Madge, and was but 37.
Another returned soldier, Jack Thomson, is look-
ing up furniture catalogues. His partner-to-be is
pretty Nellie Reed, daughter of Walter D. Reed,
well known among the musical set, and grand-
daughter of Mrs. Cleridenning, one of the most charm-
ing and versatile old ladies who ever had a 93rd
birthday.
Queen’s School, North Adelaide, where Ross and
Keith Smith got their education, is going to banquet
them on their return —whenever that may be. The
head, Jacomb Hood, with John Gordon and Wilkin-
son, old boys, will arrange the details.
The race for popularity between Adelaide aviators
leads to some enterprising stunts. Moore and Loftus,
the new rivals to the local Butler, took up the
Mayoress and some press-women, and got bold adver-
tisement. On which Butler flew his fiancee across the
Gulf on a week-end visit to his people on Yorke’s
Peninsula. The chief result to the public has been a
drop in fares; the former minimum was £5 for any
flight.
A statue to the late E. T. Smith is already talked
about. As a matter of fact, it would have been com-
missioned some years ago, but the provisional com-
mittee which thought to pay him a handsome
compliment had to climb down before the veteran’s
unflinching refusal to countenance his own graven
image while he was alive to see it.
The late “Ivilmany” Pearson’s daughter
Emily, widow of Captain Jackson, of the
Coldstream Guards, has given her second pie-
ference to a S. Australian—Roy Davidson, of
Medindie. They were wed at Sale Cathedral
on the 12th inst., with Canon Ilaultain to
pull the lever.
Lieut.-Commander Stanhope Pury Grove, a
young Englishman who is just retiring from
the Navy, was married at Eden (N.S.W.)
last month to Mabel Dorron. daughter of the
late Augustus Dorron and Mrs. Dorron, of
Mallacoota (Vic.). This is the second mat-
rimonial venture of the bridegroom, who is
in his early thirties. There was a court-
ending to the first venture with an English-
woman of high degree. Grove is buying for
himself a boat for trade with the Islands.
Just before the session closed Tommy
Ryan stirred up Dawson to get rid of the
girl-clerks temporarily employed in “the
Lands” to expedite the work of settling re-
turned Diggers. Lawson declined to Black
Wednesday them straight away, and the
girls have decided to help the amiable
minister to solve the problem by annexing
fellow-officers as husbands. Two weddings
have taken place within the last few weeks,
and two more are to follow soon.
Handsome Billy Steele, whose abilities as
an organist won Melba’s profound respect,
has tripped Londonward with his spouse. He
will be away until the end of the year, Paris
and N’Yark being included in his itinerary.
Before leaving he was the victim of several
farewell dinners and the customary pre-
sentations.
Flo Young, whose smiling face was
recently damaged in a motoring accident, has
left the hospital, and after taking things
easily for a while will again become the
skittish matron of “Theodore and Co.” Her
facade has been repaired in such a manner
that no permanent traces of the accident are
likely to l’emain.
Three sisters of Lizette Parkes are among
the treasures of “Mother Hubbard’s” cup-
board at the King’s. Elsie twinkles as a
solo dancer, Alice is ballet-mistress, and
Ettie leads the ballets.
The A.I.F. cricketers had a theatre-party
at the King’s on Thursday and enlivened the
scene in which Jack Cannot defends a pirate
ship a'eainst all comers by bombarding the
comedian with property cannon-balls, which
he kept oil; with a cricket bat. Jack had a
lively ten minutes, and his batting evoked
much admiration. After the show the crick-
eters were the guests of the performers at
supper.
Alf Braseh, writer of many a good yarn,
is back in Melbourne looking thin and tanned
but very fit. He saw active service in Italy,
where they had “a nice little war.” He has
brought back a bride. She was Miss Rosen-
thal before Alfred changed her surname.
Braco Park, pleasantly perched at the top
of a magnificent view in the Dandenong
Ranges, has been bought by the Red Cross
for use as a nurses’ rest-home. It is being
managed by war-nurse Hayes, previously
matron of Osborne House at Geelong. Braco
Park was conducted for several years as a
holiday resort by two Murdoch sisters, or
the clan which produced war-correspondent
Keith, literature-prof. Walter and a. sprink-
ling of soldier-men who veni-vidi-vicied with
the A.I.F.


&ewar
66
Imperial
m
a
m
n
m
u*i
VhPiyitt
<((<
au
tr
"'it'
"It,
ki-x.
W{(\X
%
i«</
I'll,
( O'
% (ill
Llll /
O^Ma/WI
Vlkw
'•lu
Vi 4
\1
\WW
MW
n
u
v yi
v l »•*•'/,
' 7v,
'*l ‘ «•
* * *
\^W 1 / ah W'V/'Mi f
V///.,. /.
Hi (IU“
11/'
'/ l U 3
A TIP WORTH HAVING,
■M'


Charles
Neidsieck's
■I Vintage 1906
NE PLUS ULTRA
fcs!
I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents-^
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
GHJ
An Atmosphere
of Perfect Ease
A Shave Gown or Tailor Suit
is appreciated for the atmo-
sphere of ease that it creates.
Not only do Shave clothes
bring physical ease, because of
their perfect fitting, but they
assure the mental ease that
comes with the knowledge of
being well dressed.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors, Centreway,
Dressmakers, Melbourne.
At Hotel Carlton, Sydney, February 2.
HOSIERY!
11 GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors,
4/9 pair.
Other qualities ■ 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,' white and brown —
3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS, very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAVSER MILANESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navv and White 16/11 Pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
313 Collins St., Opp. Equitable Building, Melbourne
rrs NO TROUBLE NOW IF BOBBY TEARS HIS
CLOTHES. I SIMPLY MEND THEM WITH
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT'S SO NEAT,
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO.
— HIS REPAIRS IN A QUARTER, THE TIME.
Sample Ontflt post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
There was a rainbow effect at the Double
Bay courts on the first day of the Davis
Cup, for the closely-built stands were a glow
of pinks and mauves and greens and blues.
Woman with her male had come out in thou-
sands, for the most part in tub frocks of
voile and muslin and striped silk topped by
shady hats and veils. The sardine-like seat-
ing "accommodation made striking sartorial
effects an impossibility ; even the sunshades
that came out like a flight of butterflies in
the heat of the early afternoon had to retire
before the heavy clouds that swept up about
three o’clock, and had pretty well emptied
the stands of women by half-past four. One
pretty frock was of grey georgette. This
was worn with a French grey straw hat
that had for trimming a narrow cerise velvet
band finished in one long end that drooped
over the wearer’s left shoulder. The fair
Mi*s. Tom Dixson, all navy and white silk
stripes, was there; the J. O. and G. E.
E’airfax ladies; little Mrs. Kingscote, watch-
ing her husband win his game with J. O'.
Anderson; slim Mrs. Alec Hay and the
striking-looking Elaidee Carson; and Mrs.
Sep. Levy like an expensive smoke in tones
of cigar-brown,
The first Bong Bong meeting in six years
occuri-ed last week, and but for the tennis
it would have been a record smasher. As
it was, the crowd chiefly consisted of keen
sports, as distinguished from habitual race-
goers ; the local people; and members of the
Osborne family, who always turn up here
and at Tirranna in shoals. The Sam Hor-
derns had a big party of young people;
amongst them the hostess’s cousin, Enid
Woolfe, who recently got engaged to young
Maekellar, the M.L.C.’s son. S’Sam had
no luck the first day, but on the second
Linthorpe, with Ken Austin up, took the
Ladies’ Mile for him at three to one. This
race, by the way, ended the meeting, as rain
poured down while the ridei-s were weighing
out. Manning, Austin and LI. L. McDonald
were the successful jockeys; and in the
Picnic Race Denis Allen, the ex-flying man,
dead-heated with his brother-in-law. One of
the prettiest gilds at the ball which
took place in the Moss Vale Town Hall was
Mrs. Bertie Watson, the late Alf Marks’s
only daughtei*. She married Major Watson,
D. 5.0., in England. The Pat Osbornes,
Mrs. Dick Dangar and her daughter, and
Mrs. H. Hill Osborne were among other
well-known folks.
Off to Honolulu, after the usual valedic-
tory parties and pi’esentation, Mrs. Holman
and Portia. The National Association
handed over a fitted travelling-case in the
Winter Garden. Portia is developing a
literary bent, and that is not surprising con-
sidering both mother and father’s cleverness
in the linking of words.
Old Mr. Stewart, of Bathurst, was about
the most unobtrusive i*ich man in Australia.
His indiffei*ence to the pomp and circum-
stance of life was complete. His interests
were fishihg (he made regular trips to Tas-
mania till lie was over 90, sometimes with
friend or l-elations, sometimes alone), the
care of his estate, and religion. His re-
ligion was that of his Scotch forebears, and
he read family prayers, in the old manner,
to the end. He was genuinely distressed
when a flying-youth of his acquaintance
landed near Mt. Pleasant on a recent Sun-
day. “I would not have thought,” he said
afterwards, “that a son of my old friend
would have done it.” He married one of
the McArthurs, now a white-haired, sweet-
faced old lady who suggests a Joshua Rey-
nolds pictui*e. She is idolised by the
Bathurstians, and they are far from lavish
with their affection or admiration where the
local property-owning class is concerned.
There are three sons, and the only daughter
marx-ied Dr. Sydney Jamieson, of Sydney.
Peg o’ My Heart Allgood, with her arms
full of flowers and telegrams and her heart
full of warm memories, said good-bye to
Sydney from the deck of the Orsova on
Saturday. She goes off to create tlxe part
of the mother in playwright Robertson’s
new drama. The two are old friends, having-
worked together in the li*ish Players.
Marion E’lorence Knox has become
engaged to Vincent de Lisle Alldis. Vincent,
whose dad is Canon Alldis, of Parramatta,
gave a hand to the A.I.F. Marion, whose
late father also cured souls in Parramatta,
has scholastic leanings and boasts a B.A.
Phyllis Stephens, whose dad gives Walcha
its medicine, has made hei* promise to Cap-
tain John Digby.
Amid thunder and lightning of the Tues-
day evening of last week Jean Marie Mac-
kenzie, second daughter of the late Dr. Mur-
doch Mackenzie, of Westport (M.L.), mar-
ried Hugh McMaster, of Weetalabah, Padre
James Tlendy, of Coolah, tying the knot.
The bride’s frock was a tender thing of white
chiffon, silver embroideries and tulle, which
was attended to by three maids —Jeanie and
Jessie McMaster and Mai’garet Macneil. St.
Philip’s saw the ceremony, and the Aus-
tralia the reception.
St. Patrick’s gave its blessing last week
to the marriage of Sister Stasia Roche and
Dr. It. El. Nowland, of the A.A.M.C. E’ather
E’abian Dwyer, who joined the hands of the
pair, is of H.M.A.S. Australia. Bride and
bridegroom have seen four years’ active sex*-
vice, and both have been decorated, the doctor
with the M.C., Sister Stasia with the R.R.C.
Dr. Donald Wallace, of the Coast Hospi-
tal, dispelled the illusion of some of his
friends that he was a confirmed bachelor by
joining the Benedicks last week. The bi'ide
is Sister Tomkins, of the same hospital. The
cei’emony was quietly done by a clei’gyman
friend with only witnesses the wiser. The
pair left hy the Oi*monde for India; thence
to Palestine; and on to Europe before re-
turning home.
Mildred Chisholm Mort last week took
Kenneth ITamlyn McConnell, of Queensland,
for better or worse. Archbishop Donaldson,
of Brisbane, assisted by Canon IT. Wallace
Mort (bride’s uncle) and Rev. W. L. Lang-
ley (x’ector), tied the knot at All Saints’,
Woollahra. Bride is a grand-daughter of
the late Henry Mort, of Darling Point, who
was mainly i*esponsible for the erection of
the Woollahra church. Her mother was a
Chisholm. At the reception at the Queen’s
Club there was a great gathering of both
families.
An interesting Sydney-Melbourne Jewish
wedding was celebrated at Tusculum, Potts
Point, last week—Claii*e Hart, of Lome,
Macleay-street, to Archie Michselis, of St.
Kilda. They wei*e married by Rabbi (Jobmi
under a huge old tree in the garden. But
the latter is a mere wraith of its old self.
Tusculum was once the property of W. A.
Long, and in those days the grounds ex-
tended from Macleay-street back to Victoria-
street, and to the north they included what
is now Manning-street and a mass of small
villas. The W. P. Mannings lived in the
old house for a while, and it is now in-
habited by the Oi*well Phillipses.
This bride, by the way, had a great idea
in building her wedding fi*ock. Wanting it
ivory in tone to match great-grandmother’s
lace which was to drape it, she had the
soft satin mounted on maize crepe de chine,
and thus got the necessary ivory tint. She
also carried grandmamma’s fan. The brides-
maids were in hydrangea blue; the bride’s
mother wore black and China-blue satin.
This is the May
Moore picture of
Miss Jenner, the girl
whose mezzo-con-
tralto is one of the
richest and sweetest
in Sydney. She is
altogether a Philip
Wilson product, hav-
ing won the scholar-
ship the Wilsons
offered when they
first started as
teachers of singing in
Sydney. Miss Jenner
gives a recital early
in March, and then is
away to London,
where Philip himself
is finding a teacher
for her.
Sister Gibson, daughter of the Leonard
Gibsons, of Neutral Bay, w r ho recently
returned after nursing in Egypt, France and
London, says “I will” this week at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, to Charles Helsliam,
superintendent of the N.S.W. branch of the
Red Cross. Quiet wedding with reception
afterwards at the bride’s home.
Estelle, daughter of bank-manager W. C.
H. Lippmann, of Drummoyne, has engaged
herself to Colin Venn-Brown, recently re-
turned from three-and-a-half years’ active
service.
Gentle Grade Dorran, the sweet young
heroine of “Daddies” and principal girl of
the last Bailey-Tait panto, is now Mrs. John
E’ei’nside. Fernside is the good-looking
young mummer who got his chance as
Einelie Polini’s juvenile lead.
Beati’ice Grimshaw’s intended sister-in-
law, Constantia Bei’esford, has been staying
in Sydney. She arrived by the Orvieto, and
has been intemipted in her journey to
Papua, where Osborne Grimshaw, the
bridegroom-to-be, awaits in the newly-built
home. She is the daughter of the late Major-
Genei-al Beresfoi'd, of Portrush, Ireland, so
the North is to expei’ience an Irish conquest.
But the beautiful linen the lady brought
from the looms of her native land didn’t
get a chance to become acquainted with the
silverfish of Moresby, being all stolen on
the voyage.
The workmen of Cockatoo moored Mrs.
King Salter’s heart to the Naval Dockyai-d
by the gratitude and friendly feeling ex-
pi-essed in their vei*y handsome gift to hei*,
and her jewel-box now boasts the addition of
a very swagger pearl-drop necklet. Mrs.
King Salter always took the keenest intei’est
in the welfare of the workmen, and helped
in many ways to raise money for their sick
and accident fund.
Amidst the depression of Satui’day after-
noon Montrose Maternity Hospital w r as
opened at Burwood. Mrs. David Storey
made a pretty speech of welcome to the
babies that are to be born there, whereupon
tiny Cynthea Harkness handed the lady a
bouquet. Dr. Charles Macke liar, like Peg
o’ My Eleart’s father, proved he knew more
about motherhood than any wonijan present;
then, after the floors had been ruined by the
sodden boots of all who were pot born to
be politicians or their wives (t/uey came in
cars, of course), tea was seiwed in a mar-
quee on the sad lawn.
The Marselis Parsons visitors from
N’York are off with their retinue to Mel-
bourne. The lady, who favors bronze silk
hose, has also somq wonderful lace fill-ins
for changing a full toilette to its own half-
sister in the twinkling* of an eye. They con-
sider the Bulli Pass and the drive across the
Mountains to the Bathurst Plains two of the
most beautiful in the world.
Here’s the picture
of another Au s-
ti-alian poet, whom
you know as R.
J. Cassidy, but
whose i-eal name is
“Gilrooney.” II i s
latest book, “T h e
Gypsy Road,” has
the human touch
that characterises
his work. Belong-
ing to the staff of
the Worker, h e
naturally despises
exuberance in socks
and ties, but you
will notice that he
wears his hair
long.
F. W. Braddock, managing director of Gol-
lin’s in Sydney, completed the first stage of
a business and health ti'ip when he reached
San ETancisco on December 1. At Hono-
lulu, as the host of a small dinner-party
given at the Moana Hotel, he suddenly
realised that Uncle Sam had changed his
name to Iced Water. There was nothing
else to dx-ink toasts in. Rum omelettes
were ordered, and when the head waiter
looked gloomy Braddock offered to supply
the rum. But the official wowser replied
coldly, “No —caan’t be done!”
Incidentally, a vivacious Amex-ican womln
who lately arrived in Sydney was asked by
a sex-ious-minded person what was the chief
change she thought Prohibition had made in
her country. “Biggest change I’ve noticed,”
she said, “is that more men are carryin’
parcels. Especially when they’ve got their
dinner jackets on.”
Last week The Bulletin had a par. about
“the astounding prominence of the Jew” in
recent history. And almost the same day
a very serious Sydney paper said that owing
to the jazz, London clubs were nosier than
ever.
The Society for the Welfax-e of Mothers
and Babies has commissioned Dr. Margaret
Elarper to gO ( to Maoriland and study the
Truby King methods at the Karitane hospi-
tal, and generally inquire what’s been done in
the country that loses least babies of any
in the world.
As foreshadowed in The Bulletin last
week, a fund is to be started to provide a
memorial to Lawrence Hargrave, the
pioneer of aviation. The Government is giv-
ing a site in the Gardens, and a statue is to
be erected —if the funds run to it. Dona-
tions will be received by Lieut.-Oolonel
Oswald Watt and E. J. Hart, President and
Honorary Secretary respectively of the Aero
Club, at Wireless House, Clarence-street.
The J. S. Watkins portrait of the late
Mrs. George Black will for the future make
more gracious the ward named after herself
—the Rosalind Black ward —at the Edeline
Hospital for Babies, Nielsen Park. Health
Minister David Storey, in thanking Mr.
Black for the portrait, spoke of the great
interest always displayed by Mrs. Black in
baby-welfare work, and mentioned her en-
thusiastic generosity towards the hospital.
There were about 50 guests at the little
ceremony, and afterwards there was tea on
the lawn overlooking one of the prettiest bits
of the hai-bor.
Secretax-y of the Bush Book Club Ball,
Mrs. Hunter White, wants everybody inter-
ested to know that inquiries concerning the
ball should be addressed to her at Havilah,
Mudgee line. Tickets for the event will be
ready in E’ebruary.
Mrs. Monty Grover had a final farewell
libation poured out at the Mary Elizabeth by
a number of women friends, in print anil
out of it, hostessed by Nina Murdoch Brown.
When the little lady joins her large husband
she will do so without the children, who are
to be left with Mrs. Grover’s people in
Melbourne. Monty’s eldest daughter, Violet,
married just before dad left to look after
the London end of the Sun’s cables. Son-
in-law is named Staples, and the young
people are to live in Fiji.
Back in Sydney, after a six years’ absence,
Mrs. Brough-Bell and husband Lieutenant
Cyril. He has been busy in the North Sea:
she has been Red Crossing and acting at
the Royalty. Present address: Mercedes,
Darlinghurst.
A late arrival from England is Lily
Butler, who kept the home-fires burning for
Tommy and the Digger at her Rest Club m
Paris known as “A Corner of Blighty.” Since
she came with her swag of war honors and
trophies she has been the guest of grateful
Aussie mothers. In pre-war days the lady-
used to lecture on old ETench literature and
architecture. She intends, after studying
Australian ways, to go* back and tell Poilu
just how good old Slouch Hat lives.
Dr. Emma Buckley has been appointed
medical superintendent of the North Shore
Hospital, with the right of private practice
as a pathologist. During the war she did
invaluable work at the Lister Institute, Lon-
don; was recalled to Sydney to do similar
work at the Prince Alfred; returned to Lon-
don to continue her research work with the
R.A.M.C., and obligingly got back here in
time to take charge of Red Cross in-
fluenza depots, first in Sydney, then in Tas-
mania.
The Creers are back again in N. S. Wales.
She was Miss Greville, and provoked a mild
sensation in Sydney 10 yeai*s ago by marry-
ing an officer in the Merchant Service. She
was staying with the Northcotes at the
time; her eldest brother-, Captain Greville,
of the 7th Hussars, being the G.-G.’s A.D.C.
and military secretary. Since then he has
succeeded to the Greville barony.
Dr. Reg Power, back in Sydney after ten
years’ absence, was made the happiest
fiance in the world by Nora Mary Nugent,
sister to the late Mrs. T. J. Dalton. The
doctor served 4$ years in the trail of the
big guns, first with the swanky R.A.M.C.
and later with the A.I.F. He is of the
Sylvan Park (Brisbane) family.
Canonbury, the old Harry Rickards home,
is to be opened on E'ridav as a home for
soldiers and sailors. The A.J.C. bought and
paid for it, and will meet all the bills. Just
before Canonbury was acquired by the Club
there was a scheme on foot to turn it into
magnificent flats.
The Roland Fosters, back in Sydney and
putting up at the Australia, unfold an odys-
sey of journeyings in Amei’ica and England,
where everything is still going up, puffed
every day a bit higher by the foolish ones
who have come to x-egard pleasure as the
only object in life. Bookings at hotels are
made six months in advance; it is impossible
to get into a theatre unless you reserve a
month or so before you- wish to see the per-
formance ; “Chu Chin Chow” is still break-
ing records, and Melba proving the wonder
of the age in her “Juliet” at Covent Garden.
She has for Romeo Anscau, a young Nor-
wegian, everything in appearance that the
love-sick Capulet should be, and with a voice
pi-ophesied to become international. Critics
are enthusiastic over Rene Maxwell’s future,
and stress the purity and carrying power of
her voice. The Kennerley Rumfords, when
Mr. Foster last saw them, were booked to do
45 concerts in 81 days. Clara’s voice is still
as remarkable as when of old she used to
boom out lullabies ; and the English public
is as anxious as ever to hear her and her
artistic husband. Three hundred was the
modest weekly rental the Rumfoi*ds paid for
a house-boat during the Henley regatta. The
children threaten to be taller than either
mother or father. Joy, the'daughter in the
early teens, ali-eady tops mother; Roy, 16
and an Etonian, is as tall as dad. The
Rojand E’osters found America cheaper than
England, and France cheaper than either to
live in. And here is Mr. E’ostei-’s chief laurel:
after studying many methods of breathing
exercises for vocal students. Mr. E’oster
evolved one of his own which has been
adopted by the Royal College of Music.
The singing parson, Rev. F. W. Gorman,
has a lively little wife whose family, now-
in U.S.A., has pleasant recollections of Adel-
aide; where pa was in business 30 years ago.
One of her sisters was born in Sydney. She
won’t allow hubby to be American. “Hes
English,” she says, “and he preaehed a ser-
mon at 14. When he first sang in vaude-
ville he asked the congregation’s permission
from his church pulpit. Only one man, a
grocer, objected.” Mrs. Gorman was popu-
lar among the Ventura’s passengers, and
10 minutes or so after she got ashore they d
arranged a tea-party for her at the Australia.
On the way out the rev. shared the Protes-
tant services with A. E. Potts, of Sydney.


GHJKGH
ESTB
1853
HARDY BROTHERS
JEWELLERS.
LTD.,
GEM RINGS
Hardy Bros. Ltd. specialise in the
manufacture of Rings, all Rings
being fashioned by hand from
18ct. gold, pure platinum being
used for the Diamond Settings.
The Gems are carefully selected
by their own experts, and are of
the finest quality.
AN ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT
POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
Ruby and Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£5O 0 0
Sapphire and Dia-
mond Fancy Ring,
£22 0 0
All-Diamond Hoop
Ring,
£6O 0 0
Whole Pearl and
Diamond Cluster
Ring,
£lOO 0 0
Diamond Cluster
Ring,
£l5O 0 0
Good Gin now Cheaper
than Poor Whisky!
Enclano
Ji
“O
Cr-
-40
nwmmmunU
. 1 1' 1 1 1 11 >' l ' ■'" i t ■. 11 1.. 11 1 mi
’Moy.
»1 1
i
tui,mnvi
There is much Whisky of inferior
quality on the market. Better to
drink GIN for your health’s sake!
Insist on Having;
Coates’
Plymouth Dry
Gin.
This pure spirit, rich in juniper,
now costs less per case than whisky.
The quality and medicinal value of
Coates’ Gin have never depreciated.
You can rely on getting pure gin
when you order Coates’.
Distilled in England, at the famous
Blackfriars Distillery, Plymouth,
since 1793.
Obtainable at all good Hotels,
Clubs, Wine and Spirit Stores.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Sole Agents, SYDNEY.
Interstate Agents:
H. J. Langdon & Co., Melbourne.
Perkins & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Seppelt & Son, West Australia.
HARRINGTONS SPECIALISE
in Developing & Printing Amateurs’
Snapshots.
The experience of thirty years
stands behind our work —thirty
years of endeavoring to turn out
the best possible work in the short-
est time.
llow far we have succeeded can
be gauged from the fact that large
numbers of experienced photo-
graphers regularly have their films
and plates developed and printed
bv us, because THEY KNOW
THAT WE WILL DO FULL
JUSTICE TO THEM.
Until you are proficient bring all
your negatives in to us.
Orders Left with Us
in the Morning
Will Be Finished the
Next Day.
f
A
A
t' •
-vA.
We will develop your plates or films and print one print from each
negative so that yon can see the result of your work, and then print as
many more as may be required.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and other Metal Workers can depend on having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical 8 Assay Department
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (3 lines).
G?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
AERIAL-TRAVEL
Shave in safetj£
,
'H
r:
rx
m
%
r 7
M •• 4--
■—i ' -
ZJf
/
?z
Whether you travel by aeroplane, train, boat or
car, you can always shave with safety and quickness
if you carry a Gillette. No stropping, no honing.
Leaves the skin soft, smooth and cool.
Price throughout Australia, 23/6
the set complete.
At all stores catering for men’s needs.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO,, LTD.,
Sole Agents, Sydney.
Look for the Diamond Trade-mark.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
ILK
BRITISH
ADE
Perfection
PIPSJK RUBBER
THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.’
IS-7
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which _
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps j
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
178 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
B.S.A.
,
k
N». lUk<.
8
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR PLEASURE
More fresh air, more pleasant exercise,
and a realization of all the pleasures
that await you in the open country,
on a bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings, is a better tonic than any
doctor can prescribe. A constant com-
panion, and trusty servant, it is at your
service any moment, and will carry you
anywhere with comfort, economy and
ease, away just where your fancy may
dictate.
To fully enjoy cycling be sure your
bicycle is built of B.S.A. Fittings, the
reputation behind the well-known
Trade Mark is a sure guarantee of
perfect construction, reliability and
long service. Send for Handbook post
frea on<s note the superior features of
genuino B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
ITTINCS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
It any illustration appearing in Ihk
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tne
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MIDLAND
SOLID BAND TYRES
for Commercial Vehicles. Large stocks for all sizes ready for immediate shipment.
Also all kinds of Rubber Goods, Washers, Valves, Sheeting. Hose, Buffers, Tiling,
Belting. Matting, etc. Write for quotations.
THE MIDLAND RUBBER CO., LTD.,
RYLAND STREET, BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND. „
GIVEN
GHJKGH
1000
GIVEN
AWAY
FREE
AWAY
ABSOLUTELY
FREE
1000 Flashlight Torches, vulcanised fibre, heavily nickeled, powerful lamp, strong and serviceable, GIVEN
AWAY FREE to the first thousand Readers of this paper who send in an application for one of our
MAKE-UR-OWN BATTERY OUTFITS.
A modern scientific triumph whereby anyone, even a child, can make a FRESH NEW POWERFUL
BATTERY in two minutes that will OUTLAST, OUTDO" AND OUTSHINE any other Flashlight Battery.
A REMARKABLE offer made by a RESPONSIBLE Firm to introduce this MAKE-UR-OWN Battery outfit
into Australia. LOSE NO TIME—WRITE AT ONCE (enclosing stamp) for full particulars to
SPECIALTY SUPPLIES, Commerce Building, SYDNEY.
m
'm?
£
V
K
%
£
W 4 Entirely
Australian
GARDNER URN!
”i-«
JSSOTMI.
1 MELBOURNE SYDNEV BRISBANE 1
m
'■OsS'
GK
IRALIA
MAOI
GARAGE
9
<?ra>
Permanent
and Perfectly
Fireproof Structures
may be erected without expert knowledge and in the shortest
possible time with the
Standardised System of Building
which is ideal for the erection of such buildings as
BARNS, GARAGES, HANGARS, WOOLSHEDS,
HAYSHEDS, MACHINE SHOPS, etc.
Units are interchangeable, easily erected, easily transported, no riveting
required. Fullest particulars from
tSaSXX^M^Oti.S-j^M^OHdOW^jSVOOMdOH
HROChStyHQWROt KSI S’HOHHOCKSESHORRQCHStS
the. worlds
Wm BEST VALUE
GHKGH
i:iga:w«i
Hissing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE OF GRACE HALL
or TURNER or AYRES, late of Sydney,
deceased, intestate.
JOHN or JACK HALL, the father of the
abovenamed deceased, is requested to com-
municate with the Public Trustee, regard-
ing his share in the above Estate.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
GHKG
Shaving: with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
AVe keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/- .
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated I
Folder |
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ko notice (except oj a hostile character') will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Aame and address must appear on the MSS. -Vo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. tvill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E.C.B.; Good stuff in it; but the dream
trick is so familiar. Try to get it some other way.
. ...Ignaw: The stale climax spoils “Years Ago.”
The other is well handled... .Bland: Too much like
flogging a dead horse. . ..Aden: Thank you; but you
would hate us if we sjnacked our lips over such
things in public. ... Edward L.: “Sailor’s Delight”
is poor stuff... .L.C.R.: There’s a point in it, but
it's not well enough supported.... Roland 0.: Too
crude. . . .M.A.B.: Just misses. . . .Don Three: No.
....Thomas J. 0.: Can’t say till we see them....
Aeeton: Passed out.... Warrego: Try one of the
dairying or farming papers.... Aspiration: Send the
code.... A.L.L. Wool: That’s now settled.... Thomas
S.: The Verse Editor would like to see you. lie
is beginning to practise the stranglehold... .Um-
teenth: Rejected Gelt: Leave space between your
lines and they will have a better chance.. . .R.B.J.:
Where did you get that lie? Gun: Drop a line
to a gunsmith. .. .H.F.B.: Don’t like them....
II.T.J.: You call it your “first attempt at poetry.”
Ah, well, an elephant couldn’t thread a needle with
its hind foot at the first try, could it?
F. (Bowden): Sorrowful effort after mirth....
J.W. (Kew): A long way off....N.T. (Clayfield) :
Poor stuff. Under ordinary circumstances four lines
require four rhymes.... W.G.W.: You mean well.
So we won’t say anything about the verse....
II.H.S.: No use... .Weimar: Shocking... .James G.:
Thoughts not for us II.G.D.: Bad.... Ignoramus:
Poor verse isn’t helped by the fact that its initial
letters spell something decent. .. W.J.C.: Not improved.
...J.A.W.: There’s a world of difference between be-
ing a humorist and a nuisance. The sonnet is wrong in
form.... Warder: Dull ideas in dead verse....
G. : Commonplace couldn’t go further without
falling over the edge....S.G.W.: Nearly reaches
shocking-example level... .C.S.B.: Wobble and bump
statements of fact.... Frank P.: “Cairo Leave”
wasn’t all as tame as that. Give us some of the
rest... . R.O.P.: “Call of the Sea” doesn’t get to
anything, sing anything, thrill anything. .. .Bras-
sard: “Ravens” tries to cover too much ground....
Beresford: Not up... . T’other Partner: Don’t believe
Bill wrote to say he was “goin’ back to dust.”
Also, why are there two long, unsteady lines out
of tune with the rest?....The Moralist: Delighted
to let her surf here if she will do it in better
verse.... Bland: The person with the green tie is
i ancient and obvious. .. ,J.D. (Ivatoomba) : No; it's
not in a class at all yet because it isn’t verse;
but the phrasing holds some promise. ... Marjorie
S.: It doesn’t say anything except that two friends
can walk together. .. .T.R. (or something) C. :
“Hash House Studies” seems to be a series of
quick bark, mostly unrelated.... P.L.: “Crippled”
too lame....Mac: “Bright Prospects” is a dull
fragment. And take another pen-name. .. .11.F.K.:
The baby and the sonnet fail. The other sent for
court-martial.. .A.L.M.: Not nearly up...K.K.N,: It
moved us only to profanity. .. .Bea D.: Hint of
feeling, but over-much commonplace in it....
Serious: (1) Verse fails; (2) ask your bookseller.
Almost any work on English grammar ; but punctua-
tion is best learned by correct reading, and is to
some extent a matter of taste.... Bellerive: It
gives a thrilling hint of what the pioneer woman’s
life was really like: —•
.. . .W\J.S.: Too much prose there for a sonnet....
David: Verse hasn’t enough interest. Take a better
pen-name. The one you sign is likely to cause
confusion... .0.D.C.: Get some of the bumps out of
“Bacchus.” It’s worth the effort. .Victor S.: Not
up W.D.A.: Verse won’t do. .. . J.J.C.: No good.
....Thelma B: They’re a long way 0f1....D.P.
(Mount Somers): Matter as bad as handwriting;
and that’s saying something... .Madeline W.: Both
miss... .R.S.E.: Don't care for them. “Early Doors”
misses the Shakspearean and Italian sonnet forms.
“Rhythm”—despite classic blunders—is one syllable.
. ...J.5.8.: That hair is too heavily fondled.. .
E..J.T.: It’s an old idea, and you advertise it long
before the plot develops. .. .G.W.F. : Now you’ve set
the halo fair and square on their famous heads: —
....Isabel R.: A good idea, but wants better
handling. . . .J.W.D.: The “Moon” gets very near,
but you can’t rhyme the skittish old thing with
“ruin”. .. . J.R. (New Farm): That word won’t fill
any “sad heart with cheer”.... Kid-o: Thanks, but
it doesn’t add anything to the drseussion.... Four
Guineas: What other correspondents say seems to
cover the matter. If you don’t think so, shall be
glad to hear from you again.
Born in the bush in
The land of gold,
Reared in the fields
In sunshine and cold,
Bound for the woods
And rough mountain ways,
She’d mounteth her steed
In her early days;
At the flush of dawn
She’d set off for a ride,
Over fences and logs
She’d merrily glide;
Wild, weird trails —-
And rough mountain ways
Were her favorite resorts
In her early days.
Nothing is there in the sky
That with you can hope to fly ;
Your honored names I now will give,
Immortal they will ever live:
Capt. Sir Ross Smith in command,
Sir Keith Smith, second of this band ;
Shiers and Bennett, sergeants, true,
Brought this aerial wonder through.
Your names are on the scroll of fame,
You have nobly played the game.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.: Not a twinkle in them. .. .Jack Q.: Couldn’t
use it even if the drawing were better. Study and
search for a bright gag to illustrate.... D.McN. :
Improve or you perish.... Boyd P.: There is room
at the top. But you’ll have to climb to get there. . ..
Yvonne: Decline to prophesy. There is nothing for
the prophet 'to work on. If you are interested give
it a trial.... Kaph: Declined with the utmost respect.
... .G.H.S.: Washed out. You’re weak on form....
A.II.: Six cuts for it... . J.M.B.: There are very
few people in Australia saying “Be jabers!”....
Madbil: Blank cartridge. . .-.F.McI.: Wooden....
L.J.W.: The lady behind the wall is about three times
taller than the young man she is making the appoint-
ment with.. . .M.C.: Your cows don’t converse
brightly... .A. S.J.: The old complaint—too late, too
dull. .. .W.M.: Don’t try to draw around corners.
Pictures with hinges on them are not adaptable to
newspapers... .P.C.: She’s not fast —she’s merely flat.
. ...F.S.: “Hoping same will prove satisfactory.”
There’s a terrible lot of hope about.... Frank K.:
Learn to draw hats and then learn to put them on
straight. When you’ve mastered that come back
and we’ll set you another lesson... .C.D.: Your line
is uncertain and the faces lack expression.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabinea-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, (5 Spring Street,
lIS Sydney..
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 11,
SONOMA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMDUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to DYRON DAY. COKE’S
HARDOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include tirst- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Miirwilhimbah,
rail to Byron Day, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-ve>sa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d.
For particulars apply :
DOOKING OFFICE, 281. GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir -ROBERT PHILP,
Iv.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J., MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . .6800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. IV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. F.sq. ;
W. 11. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - It It IS HAN E.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F, TQDMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
- MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.)
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
£529,988
750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
CHANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all ofher usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow. Liverpool. Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, January.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes. Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
•For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above-services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
JMP9H .
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Iteaerve Liability
Directors :
£1,000,000
3,200,000
4,000,000
£11,200,000
The lion. Sir Cnarles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.O.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Hobert L. Eaithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
F. I?. S. Falkiner. Esq., M.11.U.
Auditors: A. G. Mils'on, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Kussell French, K.B.E.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
H waxciAS aoiaao avaH ■
Bijmpf » pngf
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain) ; London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON
Deputy Governor 1920
MILLER,
Governor
THE BEST PLACE EOR YOUR SAVINGS
■ -- \
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
139 Branches and 501 Agencies.
3f% INTEREST on all balances up to £,500
DEPOSITS received from l/= upwards.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts Opened.
Shipping.
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports,- Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KUNAJIRI MARU, middle Febru-
ary.
TAMON MARU 12, early Feb-
ruary.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4100, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE
SUB-COMMITTEE.
Sailings Cancelled
Owing to Present’ Strike.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Retween
Melbourne and Lapneeaton three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zai> boaTi*>a, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the .Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Aleat Export Co. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
lilackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FQll:
British ,India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & .0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Itoyal Mail Line (at Brisbane.).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S*. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). "
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktowri.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Missing: Friends.
If' WILLIAM ALLAN, brother of James
Allan, late of Snowtown and Henley
Park. South Australia, last heard of as
being employed on a farm near Dubbo. New
South Wales, about 12 months ago. will
communicate with the undersigned, he may
hear of something to his advantage.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with ELDER'S TRUSTEE
AND EXECUTOR COMPANY. LIMITED.
Currie Street, Adelaide.
Eegal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE to CREDITORS.
Rc MARGARET SULLIVAN, late of
Bowen, in the State of Queensland, domestic
duties, deceased.
Notice is hereby given that all creditors
and other persons having claims against the
Estate of the abovenamed MARGARET
SULLIVAN, deceased, who died on or about
the Eighth Day of January. 1910, at Bowen,
in the said State, are hereby required to
send their claims to the Local Deputy Public
Curator, Townsville, on or before the Fifth
Day of May, 1920. And that after the
expiration of the last-mentioned date the
said Local Deputy Public Curator will pro-
ceed to distribute the assets of the said de-
ceased amongst the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which
he shall then have had notice.
Dated this Fifth Day of January. 1920.
JAS. COMERFORD.
Local Deputy Public Curator, Townsville.
Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres X>td.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
AS YOU WERE.
A Novel arid Fantastic Revue.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
"IVOIiI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
LONDON’S LATEST REVUE SUCCESS,
ODDMENTS.
Prices as usual.
.K I TE« I « N T II 10 A T It 10. SYDNEY.
' Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Winchell Smith and Frank
Bacon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN, D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
E It M A .1 10 S T Y’S, S Y I> N E V.
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
H
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE REVUSICAL COMEDY DE LUXE.
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
For the First Time in Australia.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS OF
EMELIE POLINI
in the English Comedy-Drama,
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL.
Plan Nicholson’s. Day Sale White Rose.
NION I’IC T C R E T H E A T R E S
u
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
H
EU MAJESTY’S THEATRE, M 151,110 U UN Ifi.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
Til 15 ATIt E It OYA E, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
THEODORE AND CO.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
fi<G’S THEATRE. MEI,ItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM FARNUM in
WHEN A MAN SEES RED.
Also the FIVE-PART COMEDY DRAMA,
THE GRAND BABYLON HOTEL.
Prices as usual.
jy|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SESSUE HAYAIvAWA
in
ILLUSTRIOUS PRINCE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
any illustration appearing in The
7ETIN takes your fancy, write to the
ager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
-J* HE ALLAi; WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE lIUXTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
lIIXDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
INVERCARGILL, JANUARY 20 to 30.
QIACI A R I V JI, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
E V E R Y E V ENIN G,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1 /-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
E* KITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Situation Vacant.
FREMANTLE FREEZING WORKS.
The West Australian Meat Exports Company Limited.
POSITION OF GENERAL MANAGER for Fremantle
Freezing Works, now in course of erection.
A PPLTCATIONS will be received up to February
aA- 28, 1920, addressed to the Chairman of the
above Company, 18 Howard Street, Perth, W.A., for
the position of General Manager, at a salary of
£1250 per annum. Only those possessing- a thorough
commercial and practical knowledge of the duties,
and able to produce evidence accordingly, will be
considered. Applications will be treated as Private
and Confidential and must be marked “Position for
General Manager.” Successful applicant will be
required to commence duty not later than June 1,
1920. Particulars of the works may be obtained at
any of the offices of the Pastor ai. Review through-
out Australia, New Zealand, Canada, South America,
Chicago, Africa and Great Britain.
JNO. HY. NOBLE, Secretary.
18 Howard Street, Perth.
A . | • I! . f Established
Australian Mutual
87TittSt, f Sydney PfOVideUtSOCkty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. .. .. .. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about . . . . . . £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. *2 39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial. Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
iss
' s'-'
H
11
am 1
COMFORT AT
EVERY STEP
is secured bv wearing
ABBEY SHOES.
They are designed on exclusive lines,
giving the maximum comfort.
We illustrate a choice Patent Golosh Bal.
with Dull Calf Legs, a smart made-to-
order style.
Price 63/-
A very distinctive boot for Dress
In half-sizes and C, D and E fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY.
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS COODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
KS
3
7
“Quality Goods at
Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Haymarket Special .. 50/-
H aymaiket Selected . . 60 / -
Klazenger’s La Belle . . 22/6
Slazenger’s Player . . 25 / -
olazenger’s Renshavv . . 40/-
Slazenger’s Demon . . 42/0
Slazeuger’s Whitehouse 52/6
M.S. Handicap 10/6
M.S. Champion 15/6
ĜHJGHJKKGH
(Postage on Kaeket: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
BALLS
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/9 8/6
Challenge Covered 1/4 15/-
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Each.
3/7
3/-
3/-
Doz.
30/-
35/-
35/-
Dunlop’s Champion
Ayre’s 1920 Champion . ,
Stazenger’s 1919 Champion
one doz.':' N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
(Postage on
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers •.. . 30/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Racket Covers 2/6, 4/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
Central Wood Press 1/9
Out Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
The “II” Racket Pi'sss 2/9
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers 1 /-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/-
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
Tracey’s Gut, 21ft. coils,
4/6, 6/9, 9/- coil.
GHJ
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S' GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 0Z....12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 16/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist.
6 or 8 oz 20/-, 22/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, C or
8 oz 26/*
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 28/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 30/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 7/-
~ Best napa, ~ ~ ..... 7/6
~ Tan Leather, ~ „ 8/6
„ very superior, „ ~ 10/6
„ ; Laced, ~ ~ 15/-
(Postage on one set. : N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3loz. (Post Old.) 17/6 P a ' r -
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOUNE,
9d TIN
• (Post Free).
GHJ GHJ
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, lig'.it
make, for fast work, .... 10/6. 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and staved, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfec t shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special learner,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings . . 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete. . . . 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 p>. Mitts .... 2/9 pr.
Punching Platforms . 40/-, 60/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/- »
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of ‘‘Can’t B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch” 1910
Angler’s Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
LIC
• •
msTmuris greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
and TOBACCONISTS
Si
City Sports Depot
99 King SC also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


The Real Remedy for
Backache & Kidney Troubles —
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
ms
Ni
r"
V
Miss J. IK. HOLLAND {from a photo.)
Milson Road,
Dear Sirs, — Cremorne.
Many years ago in a
women’s hospital I saw Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills used and heard
them well spoken of. Afterw'ards,
when I got ill with backache,
caused through chill of the kid-
neys, it seemed quite natural for
me to take what I had seen do so
much good in similar cases. What
Gin Pills had done for others they
did for me, and I am quite well
and strong. I always keep Gin Pills
by me and I take some directly
there is any threatened change of
weather, particularly if my back
or limbs ache. I am sure Gin Pills
are widely appreciated, for when-
ever I recommend them I gener-
ally find that my friends have
been in the habit of using them
before I spoke. I write, as I think
what I have to say will interest,
you, and because I am grateful
for the benefit I have received
from your fine remedy.
I remain, Yours truly,
(Sgd.) J. W. HOLLAND.
GIN PILLS WILL HELP YOU.
If you feel that your Kidneys are the eause of your sickness, your run-down feel-
ing, begin taking Dr. ,Sheldon’s Gin Fills for Backache and Kidney Troubles, because
as soon as your kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Fills for Backache and Kidney Trouble relieve the worst,
cases because they remove the cause of such troubles. They get to the root of the
matter, clean out the kidneys, and make them filter out all the poisonous waste
matters and uric acids that lodge in the joints and muscles, causing Rheumatism.
They soothe and heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They are a unique
remedy entirely different from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else
to compare with them. No matter how old you are, or how long you have suffered,
the very principle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically impos-
sible to take them into the human system without obtaining results.
If you suffer with pains in your back or sides, or have any signs of Kidney
Trouble or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the eyes or in the feet or
ankles, if you are nervous, tired and run down, or bothered with urinary disorders,
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble are the Remedy which will
quickly relieve you of your misery.
You can secure an original bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and
Kidney Troubles from all Chemists and Storekeepers at 1/6, or in larger bottles, hold-
ing more than twice the quantity, 2/6
> Sheldons
PI^S
BANISHES
BACKACHE. KIDNEY, BLADDER
AND URINARYTROUBLES
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens—Obtainable Everywhere
JLX
c
- “Che -
Pei feci Pipe
“Any Luck?”
Surely the best of luck, to be outdoors under the
blue Australian sky with a cool-smoking GBD and
good tobacco!
He is ALWAYS fortunate
who has a
GBD
THE PERFECT PIPE—MANY SHAPES—SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Nightpiece.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE sun has set behind the hill.
The winds, grown w r eary with delight,
Sleep; and the little leaves stand still
To watch the slow approach of Night.
Sighing she comes with eyes half-hid,
And gliding footfall soft as air,
A dust of distant worlds amid
The loosened ' splendor of her hair.
So over all the hates that scream,
And over all the loves that weep,
With fingers dipped in Lethe’s stream,
She flicks her poppied gift of sleep.
The moon has set behind the hill.
The dark is heavy with delight
Of life and love that have their will. . . .
Oh, fold me, hold me close, dear Night!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Mattewai.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONE hundred and eighteen years ago
young Jemmy Tremayne, of Sydney,
organised a singular and gruesome
expedition. With him was red-headed,
freckle-faced Will Dobbin, the pride, hope
and intermittent sorrow of Sergeant-Major
Dobbin, of “the Corps.” Both being native-
born Australians, their names were very
naturally Bill and Jim, but, after the
fashion of the period, were rendered col-
loquially as “Will” and “Jem.”
Jemmy Tremayne was the black-haired,
dark-eyed offspring of Coxswain Tremayne,
of the Governor’s gig—a gentleman of
ancient and more or less honorable lineage,
hailing from the Duchy of Cornwall, who
had come to New South Wales as the result
of a spirited affair with some Revenue offi-
cers on a beach near Penzance. He was
13, and by all the laws of heredity was a
pirate, a smuggler and a wrecker of the most
pronounced type. He fulfilled his destiny at
the Bay of Islands in 1824, whither the
practice of his interesting profession had
taken him. The Maoris, resenting the
methods of the Press Gang, boiled him and
ate him.
The two boys stood at the mouth of the
little creek running into the sandy beach of
Farm Cove, and gazed with great interest
across the dazzle of the waters towards
the tiny islet of Mattewai, which had begun
to be referred to locally as Pinchgut, and
was in 1800 a very much greater ornament
to Sydney Harbor than it is now. It was
a lovely little gem of an island, wooded and
rocky, and its crest stood considerably
higher than the Martello tower of Fort Deni-
son stands to-day. On the summit of the
little sea-girt hill, blasphemously hideous in
all that loveliness, was a black gibbet, from
which, tarred and iron-bound, swung the re-
mains of John Henry Morgan, lately exe-
cuted for highway robbery on Parramatta-
road.
“She says, Will, says ole Mother Dagan—
she says if a cove can get ’er one of ’is
’ands—one o’ Johnny Morgan’s ’ands—she’ll
give three dollars an a gall’n o’ rum.”
“Wot for do she want ’is ’and?” asked
Master Dobbin, wonderingly.
“Aw, don’t y’ know?” The coxswain’s
heir was a little contemptuous. “All them
wise women likes t’ ’ave bits o’- dead ’uns
roun’ th’ ’ouse. They come in ’andy. They
makes med’cin’ an’ ointment out o’ them, an’
uses ’em for castin’ spells.”
“Is she a witch, Jemmy?”
“ ’Course she’s a witch. Ain’t she witched
th’ ’angman’s babby, so’s its ’cad’s as big as
a pumpkin, cos ’e ’ung Billy th’ nigger wot
used to work for ’er? Didn’t she sicken two
Gov’mint. cows, cos th’ Commiss’ry put ’er
often th’ Stores? —’e was glad to give
’er ’er rations agin, I tell ’ee. Witch ! My
oath, she’s a witch right enough. She’s a
first-class witch. She could witch ye, Will,
soon’s look at ye. She could turn ye into a
kangaroo, mebbe, if she wanted to —or one o’
them there go’annas, or a hoyster, or any-
fink ye like.”
“I don’ like it, Jem —I don’ like havin’
nuffin’ to do with Mother Dagan. Me mother
says she’s got th’ Evil Eye. She might put
it on a fellie!”
“Huh!” With infinite scorn and a
pleasant sense of enlightened superiority, the
bold Jemmy proceeded to allay his com-
panion’s apprehensions. “Not if ye was a-
doin’ somefink for ’er. Ginger. She’d be more
like to do it if she found out ye was afeard
o’ th’ job. You think of all we could git
with them dollars, and th’ gall’n o’ rum. You
could ’ave th’ three dollars. W’y, y’ could
get that dawg from th’ blackfeller Benelong,
an’ I could get —I know wot I could get.”
“Wot could ye get, Darkie?”
“ ’Tis a dead secret, but I b’lieve I could
get ole Danny Holbrook t’ gimme ’is gun for
a gall’n o’ rum. He lives on rum. Now,
Ginger, you an’ me’ll get Johnny Morgan’s
’and for Mother Dagan, won’t we? Y’ ain’t
afeard?”
“Aw, no, I ain’t feared, Jemmy—not of
Johnny Morgan. I’m feared o’ Mother
Dagan.”
“Well, ye’ll be right to be feared. If she
’ears y’ wouldn’t do it.”
"“Y’d not tell ’er, Jemmy?”
“Yes I would —s’elp me! I want that
gun.”
Will Dobbin considered. The dog of the
lately reigning monarch of Port Jackson was
an ardently-desired possession that it would
not be possible to steal. Benelong had friends
at Court. Three dollars would certainly
purchase the valuable mongrel. And he had
a real fear of the terrible old woman who
wanted the dead man’s hand. He was
beset with doubt. But, in the end, he sighed
deeply, and nodded his head, and the pirate
chief hailed his assent with joy.
“Listen, Ginger. I can pinch th’ key of th’
padlock in th’ dinghy th’ Gov’nor goes a-
fishin’ in, an’ we’ll go off to-night. We’ll get
’is ’and —an’ you’ll ’ave th’ dawg, an’ I’ll
’ave th’ gun. Golly !”
*** * .
Mr. Assistant Colonial-Surgeon Templeton
was a clever young man, but perhaps not
quite so clever as he esteemed himself to be.
For he thought he was cleverer than old
Molly Dagan, and this was a mistake.
The old woman lived in a tiny
hut of wattle-and-daub in an outlying
suburb of Sydney. It stood in the
bush, at the foot of a tall red-gum, just about
where the new Wentworth-avenue cuts
through the old Wexford-street quarter and
joins up with Liverpool-stret. Behind it
were scrub and sandhills, the distant blue
gleam of Botany Bay, and the vast No Man’s
Land that stretched to Wibon’s Promontory.
Under the thatched roof she conducted a
lucrative business of the sort that periodi-
cally bi’ings its practitioners into the Cen-
tral Police Court to-day, when proba-
tionary policemen testify as to the ex-
changing of marked coins for little essays in
prophecy. The women of Sydney were
nearly as credulous in 1800 as they are now.
She dispensed love charms, sold medicine
and liniments that were compounded of the
vital organs of lizards, spiders and rats, and
even of such grisly bases as portions of de-
funct human beings, received stolen goods
that were not too bulky, and practised the
indispensable art of midwifery. Moreover, she
was a useful go-between—a sort of commis-
sion-agent—for those who desired the doing
of dirty work and those who were prepared
to do it. And she did quite well out of the
business of betrayal. Not a few of the un-
fortunate Irish of ’9B owed their sudden re-
moval to Norfolk Island or the next world
to Molly’s love for the rewards of Govern-
ment. She was a whole Secret Service in
herself.
She had practised for many years in the
ancient hamlet of Woodburn Green, in
Buckinghamshire, until the vicar’s pigs died,
and the magistrates committed her to gaol
as “an idle and disorderly person.” She was
not charged with witchcraft, but that was
what it meant, and the vicar was certain
she had cursed his styful of fat Berkshires.
This was in 1780, and it had led to her
taking a voyage to Australia in the Lady
Penrhyn, the female transport of the First
Fleet. So that, at the beginning of the
19th century, she ranked amongst Sydney’s
oldest inhabitants, and was quite as famous
in that out-of-the-way village as she had
been in Woodburn Green.
A few hours after young Jemmy Tremayne
had planned his night’s work on the beach
at Farm Cove, Mi'. Templeton came through
the stumps to the little hut to the left of the
Brickfields. He knocked at the door, was
admitted promptly, and before he could ex-
plain his mission Mother Dagan explained
it for him. “Ye’ve come,” she said, “about
Johnny Morgan’s bones.”
The assistant-surgeon was a little startled.
He was too modern a scientist to pay
any attention to idle tattle about the occult
powers of such as old Molly, but neverthe-
less he was somewhat taken aback.
“Good Ged, Mother!” he exclaimed. “Ye’re
quite right. Good Ged! But how’d ye
know?”
“Oh—lie, he he —how’d I know? Th’ Devil
telled me, young sir. He, he, he!”
Of course, the Devil may have told her—
but she had also been aware for some time
that Mr. Templeton had been seeking a
first-class skeleton, and had made various
negotiations of a body-snatching character to
that end. She also knew that, owing to Mr.
Templeton’s exceeding unpopularity amongst
the prisoners—to whom his bedside manner
could not be described as gentle—someone
had always been watching the burial-ground
whenever Mr. Templeton had arranged,
through her agency, for a disinterment. He
had had no luck. And now, here was Mor-
gan, a-swinging on Pinchgut, a flaunting
temptation to any anatomist. So her guess
was easy.
“D’ye think, ’twould be possible to get the
corpse, Mother?” he asked.
“ ’Tw'ould not be hard,” croaked the old
dame, looking up at him with her twinkling
black eyes, and a leer upon her wrinkled
face. She knew her man. “ ’Twould not be
so hard- —-for money down.”
Mr. Templeton, like many of us, did not
love paying away good money, if he could
help it.
"I have a cask of rum, Mother,” he be-
gan, when the ugly old lady interrupted him.
holding up a skinny claw.
“Yes, my pretty doctor —which ye got
from th’ Comiss’ry, for a-curin’ him when
he had th’ ’prrors—interferin’ wi’ my trade,
I calls it—and it cost ye naught but a
little bromide and a little jalap. But
Johnny Morgan, unless ye go get him y’seif,
he’ll be paid for wi’ five golden guineas,
wi’ King George’s head on ’em. Five shiny
ones o’ th’ best, Mister Templeton.”
“Five! Good Ged! Absurd! Robbery!
Two!”
“Five,” croaked the hag, her bent body
quivering with suppressed mirth.
“Two guineas—and three gallons of rum?”
tried Mr. Templeton.
“Five golden guineas—paid now.”
“Why, I could get him myself with but
little trouble.”
“No, ye could not,” she laughed impu-
dently. “He’ll be watched from now on.”
After some further haggling, all on Mr.
Templeton’s part, he took out his purse, and
counted five gold coins into the old woman’s
crooked palm. He groaned a little as he
did so, but cheered his mean soul by reflect-
ing that, after all, Mr. Morgan’s osseous
framework, well articulated, was easily
worth three times the money at the College
of Surgeons in Lincoln's Inn Fields. It
was a good investment.
A little time was spent in discussing
methods of procedure. As he took up his
hat, glad to escape from the unsavory little
den, he recapitulated the arrangement.
“They’ll be at Wallamulla, then, at 9
o’clock with the boat. I’ll go with them,
and they’ll row me to the Rushcutter’s Bay
when we have secui’ed the body, and carry
it into the bush to where I’ll have the
copper ready to boil it down! They’ll assist
me until the operation is complete, and then
brine- the bones —losing none—to my house
on the Rocks.”
"Aye, ye can trust Skinny Tim an’ Long
Ned. They know th’ game. They was both
of ’em lagged for a-priggin’ stiffs. I’ll ar-
range it all. I don’t do things be ’alves,
Mister Doctor, damme if I do. Ye’ve got
’im cheap.”
“Five guineas!” grumbled Mr. Templeton,
as he walked back through the stumps to the
town. “Five guineas ! Good Ged.”
(Continued on next pass.)


0 ULCERS on His Lee
SPENT POUNDS ON USELESS OINTMENTS.
ZAM-BUK’S POWERS AGAIN PROVED.
WRITING from his home, 176 York Street, Launceston, Tas., Mr. F. Campbell, whose photo
accompanies, says:—“Three years ago I met with an accident whilst at Flinders Island. I
was chopping some wood, when a piece flew up and hit me on the shin-bone, inflicting a
painful injury. The dye from my sock got into the wound, which became inflamed and festered. The
leg swelled enormously, the pain being dreadful. I could get no relief nor sleep at night, but would
toss about in agony. I commenced to treat myself, but the remedies I applied did not suit me. I
spent altogether about £5 in different ointments, but I could get no relief.
“A friend of mine had suffered from a bad leg and had used Zam-Buk on it with splendid results.
I therefore took my friend’s advice and gave Zam-Buk a trial. The first application gave me the
greatest ease. I had used poultices of different kinds, but they were like the other applications, and
did no good. I was so encouraged that I kept on with the Zam-Buk treatment, and although I had
thirty ulcers on my leg, Zam-Buk healed them all splendidly, and I do not suffer at all with my
leg now.
“I think Zam-Buk is a wonderful cure, and I have the greatest faith in it.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
6
b
©
m
Zam-Buk is
unequalled for cuts,
bruises, scalds, burns, runmng:
sores, bad legs, ulcers, itching, abra-
sions mosquito bites, proud flesh, peeling
skin ’ summer rash, nettle rash, pimples, blisters,
children’s sores, abscesses, ringworm, barber’s rash,
scratches, scalp diseases, rheumatism, sore feet, heat rashes,
i»„sis sunburn, festering sores, piles, sprains, scabs, blackheads,
s barcoo, insect stings, sore heels, eczema, poisoned wounds,
ss’ 80r es teething rash and injured conditions of the skin generally,
stmne , 3/g p e r po t of all chemists and stores; or post free from
err Word (Aus.), htd-, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Shaving Sores.
After shaving do you feel a
soreness and irritation where the
razor has passed? Or, if your skin
is naturally, sensitive, is there an
uncomfortable smarting sensation
set up? There is nothing so.sooth-
ing and beneficial for shaving sores
as Zam-Buk. Zam-Buk is germi-
cidal, and therefore the risks of
blood-poisoning, should the razor
be unclean, are reduced.
Keep a Pot
Always Handy
*5
1
&
ill
r
l
ft
Mr.
F. Campbell
alter Zam-Uuk
cured him.
ASK FOR
AND INSIST ON
ZAM-BUK.
IMITATORS MAY BE
FLATTERERS,
BUT THEY ARE ONLY
IMITATORS:
REFUSE INFERIOR
SUBSTITUTES.
i •" n t r e - December day that simple,
Kindly Irish peasant, Thaddeus O’Grady,
ma.rooned with half-rations upon Pinchgut
tor having called the utterly irreligious over-
seer of his gang “a Protestant” (there-
by interring that he was anything that was
vile), had busied himself with the digging of
a grave. “
High above him had clanked and creaked
the grim, tar-smeared monsfrositv that had
been a man. Thl Naming £nd
lighting about the dangling caricature bad
completed the dreadful rufn that man had
made—the fierce blasnhemv that be wi
uttered against the 0?S when lfe Sad
stuck Mr. Moro-an nn in
position. It is unpleasant enough to
watch a dangling no nefe i! , i ay
fer 20 miX g onr P oreni & if a
Britain and A gla^ dfat h ei ‘s in
them in vit*w ° fta , n had , to keep
Thadv O’Cmd f w ® e , ks ai ? d months. And
it was a i ,/ 0 r d that in tiny Mattewai,
to nil deal n l ore llan he could bear
contemplate highwayman
in, ci , elUl . n £ tlle clear heavens overhead,
inntbcf ■! shad °w of the gibbet with its
atnsome burden moved from west to east
as me sun swung through the day. There
was no escaping it. As we would say, it
S °w-ii° n - I *? erves ’
VVith infinite labor, infinite compassion
and a Christ-like love of his kind in his
gentle heart, the ignorant exile scratched a
shallow hole in the stony soil of tlm hill-
side, keeping his occupation hidden from the
shore behind a bush. He had no tools other
than Ins hands and a piece of driftwood. By
sun§et he had finished his work and black-
hearted rebel that lie was accordino* f n
Government of England- seated 'himseP
with bleeding fingers, to await darkness and
the still more difficult task of gettiug Mr
Morgan down into his sepulchre S
Up the Pflrrnmnf-f t> „, o ' .
down o i £ iama ,tta River the sun went
busb-firp« 'lti gi°be behind the haze of
into o Wnti.i aS the short twilight merged
weatherwteo t ■ < !f S 2 lgbt > those who were
sontboriv Ai in k* vdney waited for the
hov« londpa bout nine o clock two small
SLl d ! i i P(,n l he , north side of the
i.j/i l dingy, climbed fearfully up the
enanaprl JL fj 6 bu ? be s—and beheld the Devil
overnoworin I e ™' ovm 9. Johnny Morgan! So
oxeipowenng was this awful spectacle that
root- ifco-’ovf- 13eecdde ss and terrified, behind a
:„ nn ’ o , t° strange sounds of clanking
i*ii ’ 1 “lagging of a heavy body down the
n nVwel!f !' V + d curses that led them to
it* if • at ‘ s& t an was an Irishman.
vHg'h into the heavens towered a great
wall of black clouds that blotted out the
stars _ and rose slowly higher and higher,
until it seemed that it must topple over on to
Sydney. Gentle sighing breezes puffed irre-
gularly across the placid waters of the liar-
)01 '. i 4.1 l i oai V mu ® ad and distant, mur-
mured through the night. And suddenly,
with a howl and a shriek, and a smother of
mist B’om the Brickfields, _ the southerly
burst, with ram and lightning, over Port
-Jackson. It caught two boats, and drove
them on to Mattewai.
One of these craft was rowed by two ill-
looking men, and steered by Mr. Assistant
Colonial-Surgeon Templeton. The squall
caught it as it approached the south side
of the island and hurled it ashore with great
violence, so that the ghoul-like person known
as Skinny Tim was very fortunately drowned.
Mr. Templeton and the other ghoul crawled
out of the water, only half-drowned, their
hands and clothing tom to tatters by the
clusterin S oyster-shells on the rocks. And
tlle storm ho ' vled and ra « ed over Mattewai
*ar it up by the roots,
The other boat was no less than the gig
° f . bis Excellency Captain Philip Gidley
Mng, R.N., which was making back to Syd-
Cove from the South Head, whither the
Governor had proceeded in the afternoon for
the purpose of leavin S bis final ma j ls aboard
the ship Perseus, homeward bound, and in-
tending to sail at dawn. He had supped
witll her commander, and was nearly home
when the southerly caught him. Captain
King, being a sailor, knew what to do, and
under his direction coxswain Tremayne ran
for the leeside of Mattewai. The Governor’s
gig came into the shelter of the island close
alongside the Governor’s dinghy; but of this
they were unaware, owing to the black dark-
ness, until the storm had passed and the
newly-risen three-quarter moon flooded the
harbor and the island with silvery light.
“Y’r honor!” said coxswain Tremayne, as
the Governor made a sign that they should
return aboard the gig and push off—“a
moment.” The Governor turned, a little
impatiently, to hear what he had to say.
“H y’r honor pleases, here’s the dinghy,
an’—the gallus is empty!”
What!” cried King, looking up to the
sum mit, where the black gibbet stretched
its arm bleakly against the moon. “Can the
storm have blown the body down? Well,
T’ 11 se « d and see in the morning. We will
sh ? i v , a - off now ’ coxswain ; , , T , ,
Tls some q V eer )Y,? rk ’ , y r honor ’ Heras
yr honor’s dinghy. There s someone on the
island.”
King was alert at once. He remembered
that dangerous fellow the I*ish rebel. All
through his reign the good'man was more
worried over the Irish rebels than over any
other circumstance connected with his gov-
eminent.
“ITa!” he exclaimed. “There is some eon-
spiracy afoot. Search the island, Tre-
mayne, and bring all the people you find
to me.”
In due course the five visitors to the island
were found and brought down to the Gover-
nor. The boys were dumb, paralysed with
fear. They had seen the Devil, and here
was the Governor, who was even more to
be feared. Ilis Excellency left them to
Jemmy’s father. Mr. Templeton explained
that he had been fishing. Theddeus O’Grady
volunteered no information. The Governor
spoke to him angrily.
“Look here, you d—d villain. You have
been here, I understand, for two days. What
has become of the body of the man who was
hanged in chains? Where is he? You
should know. ’Twill be better for you to
tell me. Has any one removed it? You
could find no traces of it, Tremayne, you
say?”
“Not a sign, y’r honor. ’Tis not blown
down—it must have been shifted.”
“Sure, thin, I buried tli’ pore fellie to-
night,” said O’Grady.
His Excellency gasped.
“Buried him —why?” What would these
fellows not do next?
“F’r th’ love o' Mary's Son," simply
answered that outrageous rebel.
The dangerous .ruffian received two
hundred ’ lashes on the following day, and
was sent soon afterwards to Norfolk Island.
There was no understanding such fellows,
remarked his Excellency.
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
Jim’s Capetown Conquest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
u TTIM had a ton o’ girls round Sydney,
• M an’ after we left Aussie on the trans-
port there was a Melbourne girl an’
a Durban girl. He’ll tell you beaueoup about
them; but unless you’re mighty quick off
the mark, don’t ask him about his Cape
Town girl.
“Well, don’t butt in, an’ I’ll tell you.
“The second night our reinstoushments
was at the Cape, Jim an’ I padded through
the town an’ out into the surroundin’s. ‘lt’ll
be nice an’ quiet,’ lie says. It was !
“We climbed an’ walked an’ climbed till
we wondered if houses was scattered about
right to the top o’ Table Mount’in. We was
ploddin’ along a sort o’ lane with a hedge
on one side an’ scrub on the other, when
‘ ’Elp! ’Elp !’ comes in a girl’s voice from
the other side o’ the hedge.
“Jim was a bit ahead o’ me, an’ we both
started huntin’ for a way in.
“A couple more yells comes in that tabby’s
voice, an’ in between there was what sounded
like cuss words in a gratin’ sort o’ man’s
voice. Then Jim found a gate an’ was over
the top in once.
“A dog set him. but I barraged him with
my jack-knife. By then Jim had ducked
inside another littler hedge. There seemed
to be a sort o’ maze o’ jungly stuff around
the house, an’ for the life o’ me I couldn’t
see where ’e’d gone.
“The girl’s voice had stopped, but the
man’s was gettin’ louder, and I heard him
bull-tramplin’ about in the entanglements.
Then I heard Jim’s voice, an’ the two of ’em
barneyin’. After a bit the foreign bloke’s
spruikin’ stopped with a jerk, an’ I heard
Jim say, ‘Get up, you cow, an’ I’ll knock
yer agen !’
“I yelled to him to sing out how to get
to him an’ what to do, but he says there’s
only the Dutchy an’ two niggers an’ he can
settle them.
“When I did sight Jim he was advancin'
in open order towards the house. The
foreign cove was a stretcher case, dead to
the world across the path, an’ the niggers
had imshied. Jim disappears again.
“I scouts around tryin’ to find him near
the house, but couldn’ place him. I sounds
the Retreat, an’ lie whistles the Stand Fast;
so I fell back to where I could picquet the
Dutchy an’ have a clear get-away in case
we had to do a bunk.
“At last Jim comes out, lookin’ as serious
as if he’d swallowed a bomb with the pin
out. So I didn't poke any borak, an’ when
we’d tramped for about an hour he chucks
his load o’ care off his chest.
.“ ‘Bill,’ he says, ‘she’s a clinkin’ tart—
bosker little voice, an’ talks like a lady
an’ that old swine of a Dutchy belts the
soul-case off her.’
“‘Any relation?’ I asks.
“ ‘Says she’s workin’ for him.’
“ ‘Why don’t she cut it?’
“ ‘Can’t get out. I didn’t see her even-
only talked to her through a door with a
hole' in it high up. She’s strict C.B. I] e
don’t let her have a light.’
“ ‘No slaveys?’
“ ‘Not inside. She’s got to do mess-orderly
for him an’ herself.’
“I thought I’d vamped up enough interest
in Jim’s wonderful tabby, an’ tried to choke
him off the subject. It wasn’t my stunt, any-
how. But lie was well talkin’ now, an’ I
got beauty in a cage all the way back to
the ship. ‘Wish I could have seen her!’ was
his bleatin’ chorus.
“He dragged me back the same route-
march next night, tryin’ to see her —said she
had told him the Dutchy would be away.
The night after he wanted to detail me on
it again, but I mutinied. It was too dry a
fatigue for me, keepin’ long nit while he did
a line with the bint, an’ then listenin’ while
he made a song about her all the way back
to our floatin’ palace. So he went on his
pat.
“He didn’t report to me much after that-
thought I wasn’t sympathetic, or had no
respect for sentiment or somethin’. But I
got the oil that she was always locked up,
an’ he never got his lamps on her.
“ ‘Confined to barracks like a drunk by
that blarsted Dutchy!’ Jim would growl; an’
he always repeated what a lady she was.
“Then one day there was shore leave for
the troops right after breakfast, an’ Jim
an’ I had a few shickers. When night come
he swore he’d see his ‘little prisoner’ that
time or tear the place down.
“Of course, if he was goin’ to spring an
offensive I wanted to be in the joke, though
I had a clue o’ me own readied up for that
night.
“But Jim turns me down. ‘l’m dead gone
there, old sport,’ he says, ‘an’ I want to he
on me own when I do get sight of her.’
“An’ off he goes.
“I didn’t expect to see him again till next
mornin’s A.W.L. parade in the Orderly-
room ; but when I gets back to the old tub
there he is. I chipped him about a short
honeymoon or somethin’, but Jim takes me
by the wing an’ steers me to a quiet corner
of the deck.
“ ‘l’ll give you the strong, Bill.’ he says,
‘an’ then for Gorsake forget it. I saw her
all right.’
“‘Mine or sap?’
“ ‘Don’t be a goat. Pinched an axe an’
broke in the door.’
“‘Well, nice as you tipped?’
“ ‘She seemed to be keepin’ out o’ my way
when I got in, though there was no one else
about. That wasn’t what I expected, so I
lit a match.’
“ ‘An’ she’
“ ‘Was black as the ace o’ spades, an’
about seventeen stone !’ ”
KING WOOD.


ft®
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offloe—B3-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington'
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
s
&ib
j i&i
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat ia
store for you.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women—and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter's
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure;
Biliousness, Con-"
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
bear signature
mu
SUQJLHV3
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts
WRIGLEY’S (Australasia) LTD.
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S W,
6 bars
of this
delicious,
long-lasting
beneficial
sweet
for 3d.
Most economical
refreshment you
can buy.
Get It at Chemists, Con-
fectioners, Tobacco
Shops and Stores,
Be SURE its
KEEP FIT
USING
V
r
Beechams Pins
r
? \
\aV
TT is in outdoor work thatrthe handi-
ness of Waterman’s Ideal is most
apparent. Ever-ready, ever-right, it is
just perfect for note-taking at any odd
moment and wherever you happen to be.
Waterman's
x Ideal
FoufJtgriFen
Self-Killing’,” “ Safety," & “ Regu-
lar.” Of Stationers and Jewellers.
L. a SLOAN, Ltd..
ChclJeit Comer £“£3
Australia: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence street. Sydney.
After reading, will you please send this paper
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot,
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of th
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
the Standard Remedy which has outlived the Costume
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
tJsed since IM6. CURES Write for Boc*
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Engiaitl
Insist on Singleton’*"—refuse all substitutes.
cnsland
_ IS
calling
Tp the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name___
Addres*_
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
■ ■ S.B. '


MANGROVIT
LEATHER
lELTliil
A PULLEY GRIPPER.
Mangrovite leather or Rawhide Belting grips
from the start, and it keeps on gripping for
years. It renders efficient service under all
conditions—on high-speed drives and heavy
loads.
Try it on your power plant and prove its
merit.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Cibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
Qlb oh »
THE SAWS FOR BIG WORK.
By “big work’’ is meant long, hard jobs. Cutting all kinds of
wood under the most severe conditions.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
have proved their worth. They cut quickly, cleanly and economically,
holding their cutting edges longer than other saws.
Made from Double Extra Crucible Steel in standard gauges and
holes, in 15 different kinds of teeth. Sizes from 4in. diameter.
Prices and particulars promptly supplied on request to
Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra. Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlie
Cliff St, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd.. Newcastle.
We are Sole Agents for “Fibrolite”
Australian-made Genuine Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Slates, “Fibro-C” Cold Water
Paint, and suppliers of the following build-
ing materials. We can consequently quote
you at the best-obtainable prices.
“FIBBREIC” Building Board.
“CREOWOOD” Stains.
“REXIL.ITE” British-made Roll Roofing
and Danipcourse.
“CERTAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
REINFORCED Cement Tubs.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc.
Write for Price List and Particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8156 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
AH
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
'■O"
&
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
'A light, durable' motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. * W. Chandler Pty. Ltd., SffESffiSi**
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
ood Pumps Only
■357^
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 13in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include}—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders? *=.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
GHJGHJ
GO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable lor Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
. ::
try**!
a
SB i
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4'/ 2 hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.YV. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street,
CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Melbourne.
The Light Horse in Palestine
used LISTER ENGINES.
Under adverse conditions of every kind—dust, rain, heat and frost—the Lister Engine did wonderful work
in driving Army Pumping Plants throughout Palestine and Syria. No climatic conditions can upset Lister Engines
—that is why the War Office chose them for such exacting service where reliability, simplicity and durability
were all important. Ask for Booklet explaining the features of this famous All-British Engine.
Stocks on hand. Petrol and Kerosene, 2,3, 5,7, 9 B.H.P.
Dang'ar, Gedye & Co. Ltd., 9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
GHJ
LEACHING OF LOW-GRADE ORES.
The Counter Current Decantation System with “Dorr”
Machinery is giving remarkable results in all parts of the f
world, and has revolutionised the treatment of low-grade
propositions which could not be handled by any other system.
We are the sole agents for the Dorr Co. in Australasia, and we manufacture
all machinery required. Our files and special knowledge will be placed at the
disposal of clients.
Correspondence invited from metallurgists and mine managers interested.
■ -
' •
|sjjj?g
-»,D#A'.W • '•'i
@T‘ '.. Xi
DORR PATENT CLASSIFIER.
GHJGHJ
Milling & Electrical
Engineers,
350 George Street, Sydney.
